«
I — —; V ' ^ ^ ^ '
Miscellanea Aurea:
OR THE
GOLDEN MEDLEY.
Consisting of
I. A Voyage to the Mountains of the Moon
under the Alquator, or parnajjus reform’d.
II The Fortunate Shipwreck, or a description of New Athens being an Account of the Laws, Mau
Iners, Religion, and Customs of that Country; by
Morns Williams Gent, who restded there above ^
Twenty Years.
III Alberoni, or a Vindication of that Cardinal.
IV The Secret History of the Amours of Don Alonzo, Duke of Lerma Grandee of sfd.in.
I V The Garden of Adonis, or Love to no pur pose; being above Twenty Copies of verses and Love letters, by a Lady.
I VI M A H o M E T no Impostor, written in aramck^
by Abdulla 'Mahumed Omar. 1
VII An Account of Bad and Good Women, An | and Modern, Among which is the Story of the Spartan Dame, the subje6l of Mr. isb«fform’s Play. With Several other Epistolary Essays in prose and verse : By Mr. Milton, the
Lady JK -- - Mr. phuips, Mr. Killegre'iv, Author
of the Chit-chat, and Several others.
* V. t ■ " 'J f I
LONDON: 1 - -
Printed for A. Bettesworth in Pater I Ncjier row, and J. peaiberton m Fleet |
MDCCXN. I
-- -- - ► ' " — -- — j
♦ •
4 1
} '
#
s
%
To the most Noble
JOHN
Duke of Buckingham
Shire and Normanby, Marquis of Normanby,
Earl of Mtilgrave, c. and Knight of the most noble Order of the
Gstrtcr.
M^J it pleafejour Grace,
4
Have long wish’d for an
P ^ 11 opp^i^t™hy of, laying
Something of aiiiie at
A z ' your
¥ "'
t...
.... - - - — — = • -• •• r •..
*
DEDICATION.
»
your G R A C e’s Feet, pot whob ly unworthy of your Patronage; and I hope that the following Difeourfes may be thought so: for though they come not up to that Perfection and Importance, which I destre Should be apparent in all that I Should presume to addrcss to your Grace; yet I have the Vanity to persuade myself, that they will afford an amuse ment not absolutely disagreeablc to the Entertainment of your G R A C e’s unbending Hours; I flatter myself, at least, that youi* Grace will find Some Thines
D
here, that a Person of your most excellent Sense and admirable I Judgement will not wholly repent
i pf the perusing.
’ttis true, that to come up to the erand Goust, of which your Grace is so eminent a Mailer, jhere should be something nearer
, j ^ ^ * V _ ir
the
'* 4-
i
The DEDICATION.
the Productions of a Vtrgil or i Milton. But, my Lord, if I were never to make an Address to
your Grace, till I had what was of equal Value to oster^ I must be for ever filent, and lose this Satisfaction, of which I am extremely ambitious, of letting the World know that Esteem and Veneration which I have for your G R A C e’s conspicuous Merits, both as a great statesman, and a gteaf and judicious Patron of the politer Arts; those, indeed, are qiia lities which Seldom meet in the powerful Men of any Age, and scarce ever in those of oiirs;
There was, ’tis true, once a Mecmas many Ages ago, who is, on all Hands, acknowledg’d to have been the most confummatc statesinan that ever appear’d in
1 V T J JL
the Worlds who, in the midst of his important Thoughts for the
A 2 eftab'
’, v.
. t
V ■ ■
/

•^** • • ^' #*» •* <1^ * • ^.. f
establifliing the Monarchy of Rome for his Alaster, believ’d the Care of the aluses not foreim
ko.
from, nor at all unworthy of his ' Consideration.
There was like wise, in our modern Times, a Richelieu perhaps, not less in his political Capacity, who likewise esteem’d the Protection of Poetry, and. the other fine Arts, equal to his great Post. And there is a Duke of Ruckinghamjhire still living, who, as he is not inferior to either of them in all the just Arts of Government, folie is infinitely fupe
‘ft t JL
rior to both in his Taste and Judgement in these Sciences which
have polish’d Mankindand I
am fully astiir’d, that it has not been your G r a C e’s Fault that there is not now an Establishment in this Nation more for their pro motion, than the World has Seen
', since
fk bkhtdaribn.
%
since the Expiration of the Commonwealth of Athens.
Before I conclude this Epistle,
I think myself oblig’d to beg your G R A C e’s Pardon for this public address without your Graces Permistion, not that I think it in reason a real Fault, but only as it is an Offence against the Tyranny of a most irrational Customand, ’ perhaps, only to be found in this Nation: Irrational, I say, my Lord because it forces upon Authors a necesfity of dsteririe Violence to the Ivlodesty of a great Man, whi(^ may perhaps make hint unwilling to grant Shch a permif fion, of oblige them to take up Only with, such Persons, whole vanity they may believe will be easily complaisant to their Destres.:
But I, my Lord, who know that youf Grace had rather de^’ ferve Praise than be told that you
A 4 da
■v‘
«
The DEDICATION.
do so; and whole pasiion to appear in this public Manner to your Grace, was too strong to run the Hazard of any Obstacles to it, chose rather to omit that Ceremony of Custom, than lose this Opportunity of declaring how much I am,
%
%
il Lord,
9
Tour Graces
i
- ^
'♦ *
Moji humble,
e
• • «
Mofi obedient, and
#
Mofi demoted Servant
\

I
THE
PREFACE.
I • '
%
□ Shall not long detarin the Reader
with what I have to say to him by way of Preface j for I will not Spend much Time, nor use many
Arguments to recommend the following Entertainment, * those are Arts that may sooth the fond Credulity of an Author, ’ but can never obtain the End he proposes by them r for let him say what he will, the Reader must be Judge how far the Performance is agreeable to him. And I flatter myself, that in the great Variety which this Volume contains, there will be Something that may prove an Amusement to every Reader. This I am Sure of, that no, one will be able to charge me with committing to Print anything contrary to good Manners, Modesty or Religion.
The
A
fhtprbfage.
, The only thing that I have the least Apprehenfioh can have any Appearance of Offence, is the Translation out of Ara bkk} and yet, upon the Perusal the Reader will find, that there is nothing in it derogatory of the Christian Religion, but on the contrary a great Deference perpetually paid to the Divine Precepts of the gospel; and that lio where through the whole discourfe the Author pretends to prove the Divine Mission oivlahomet^ or that he was a Prophet of God any farther than by a Confutation 6f a particular lauthor, who had written against him.
This, Author Seenis to be Dr. Prideaux in his Life of Mahomet at least it is certain, the Transtator takes it to be that, Since he has quoted his very Words in his tranf lation. It is true indeed, that the Arabian reproaches the modern Christians of Europe with a Scandalous Neglect in their Practice of the Divine Precepts of the gospel s But that is a Truth too evident to Suffer Us to condemn hihi for asterting what we Ourselves cannot deny;
'0
. — Pudet hd: C ofprohria hohu
Et diet possess' b^ori poiuijfe refdli.
I cannot make ah end of this Preface ivitlte out paying my Thanks to that faiflady, whd' has been pleas’d to fiirnish me vvith thofi
0
n
rhe PREFACE.
Love letters and verses, which are con tain’d in the Garden of Adonis; and I dare
%
believe that my Readers, as well as I, will wish that they had been more numerous..
There is one thing I had almost forgot, ’ and that is what Some may think a Sort of a Blunder in the first discourfe, where Milton is introduc’d quoting the incomparable eijay on Poetry Since that Poem in all probability, was not publifh’d till aster his Death: But that is an Objection which will vanisti, if the Reader remembers that he tells us in the Same Place, That this Poem is already deposited in the Archives of parnaf fus^ where he might have had Recourse to it. The Same Answer Vill hold good to Milton's Remarks upon the Defeats of our more Modern Poets, Since he at the same time in forms us. That all their Works had been lately examin’d before the Expulsion of the Authors from Parnajfus.
4 *
0
4
s
4
%
9
I
I
s
*
0
-•.* ■ *. ■■
r
/
\
t
*«
^bmplhl jk|m^|fl ^^"**” '^^ ^^*^*^*
«
/
-- .f
THE
0
CONTENTS.
. *•
LETTER i.
f
A. * f
Voyage to the Mountains of the Moon under the Equator: or pamaltiis reformd
Page t
i
LETTER if. On Players 3j
Letter he Sthe Antiquated tiijore 45
%
(
m
LETTER IV *fhat every Man makes hts own fortune. A Parostox y(
LETTER V Love is a Warfare 51'
I
LETTER VI On Pmert^
letter VII The faife Zealot oi
t Ef:
«
'
* * *
• •
♦ '
*
The CONTENT S.
/
LETTER VIIL Qn the Love of our Country
70
L E T T E R I. A Description New Athens in Terra Australis incognita 3o
LETTER II Alberoni: or, a Vindication of that Cardinal. A Political Paradox
LETTER IIL Against Delay ii
LETTER IV rhepof 130
« •
%
t
LETTER V tihat the Unfortunate have no Friends. 135
LETTER VI Against Avarice 13p
LETTER VII Lhe reciting Poetajler 14^
tihe Loves of Don Alonso pttke of Lerma, and Donna Olympia di Bianchi 15a
LETTER I, Alonzo to the Charming olym pia IJ4
V
LETTER II olympiam Alonzo is
LETTER III alonzoolympia 158
«
LETTER IV Donna Olympia to Dojn Alpnzo Duke of Lerma id^i
LETTER VI A Defence of Mahomet.
4 Paradox idj
t ' rv ^ r. J ^
■re
The CONTENTS.
To Celinda pag. i88
\
I
A Ballad to Mrs. Catharine Fleming, by the Counters of W” ” ” " I po
w
ishe Fable of Aumillus, and the Statue of Venus, by asr. Killegrew ' ip
fthe Garden of Adonis, or Love to no Purpose 1^6
'LETTER I. Jo the false Boafier ' ipy
LETTER II To the same 1 p8
/
LETTER III To Amintas 200
LETTER IV To Lady upon Female Virtue 201
J etteer V .To the too cautious Lover 20%
4
4
i
E T T E R VI Sfhe Answer 204
LETTER VII To Lorenzo zoj
I
letter VIII the Answer 208
i
L E T T E R IX To Clarona 210
\ ’ ^ •
She Humour 212
4
■ L E T T E R X To Alphonfo 213
>•
letter XL To Astrea 214
LETTER XIL To Aurelio 215
.. let
The CO N TENET's.
letter XIII 7o Clarona 217
LETTER XIV tip Antenpr. 219
LET T E R XV waller’s Girdle rfverd.d at
the Sight of Lady — — at the Ajfembly at St james’r liz
LETTER XVI toalmano 223
LETTER XVII To a Friend with a Poem
225 •
L E T E R XVIII To Alcides, feeing him after
three Tears Absence 229
LETTER XIX tihe Mejfage, To Amin * tas. ' 231
L E T T E R XX To^x^j^, with two Copies
of Verses, viz. the Garter tranfpod.d^ and the Magnet * 231
On lending.a Garter for a Girdle. To Amintas 232
she Magnet 233,
«
mifell^rt^ous Letters and Parado: es,
LETTER I. Upon the Freethinkers 234
LETTER II she Answer to the foregoing Letter 240
LETTER III On Same 242
%
L E T X E R IV That our sleeping Hours are as valuable cts our waking. .^4 Paradox 248
LET
w
/
iv

0
The CON TENTS.
LETTER V Oh Women 25 a
$
LET ER VI On beauty 275
LETTER VII On Drinking 282
LETTER Vni. On Blindmfs. iso
LETTER IX On that Vulgar. A Paradox ayo
%
4
f
$
* I
#
^rl EB ky ri mm qw iii ^
vt n' ' ^^flvtblw^^
^wp^twmm Bf W k^k ' B sip b1 abb
^pcii ^s^kbs?^^v imbb^
'N ■ S. .' ■' '^'' ■ ■ '
'£, V.. •.
* ^
* ' ' ''
ri I
. - - j
i V
%
•. •
*
". * ' •
%
\
"- : 4 * •
\
f
I •
«.
«
C I ]
V o ya G E
TO THE
Mountains of the Moon
Under the EQUATOR:
O R,
PARNASSUS Reformed.
BEING the
APOTHEOSIS
%
O F
Sir SAMUEL GARTH.
• ^
«
t __________
Quique pii vates, & Phoebo dignam I'ocuti^
Inventus aut qui vitam excoluere per artesy Quique fui memores alios fecere merendoi Virg.
4
L E T T E R I.
To Dr, Mead.
Learned dosiovy
O U may, perhaps, be surpriz’d at an address of this nature, from a
lilrb^jil p^^^fhn wholly unknown to you, • but
considering to whom I should diretst the following difcourse, a learned Member of your Faculty being the principal
B Subject
«

t
f
\
.. ^
Subjedof it, I thought it was due to one So eminent in all polite Literature, as Dr. Mead is acknowledg’d to be by all that know him. I will not mention that excellent discourse of yours, De Imperio Solis & Luna:, tho’ it has made discoveries that no Physician before has had the Happiness to find out; for tho’ that treatise has prov’d you a great Master in Nature, and an exquisite Judge of the true Connexion of causes and Effects; yet it has not an immediate resped to my present Undertaking.
Besides your extraordinary Skill in Physic, your Knowdedge in Painting, as is evident from your curious Colledlion, is peculiarly remarkable, and known to the Venuofi beyond Sea as well as at Home, - and this it is that has determin’d me in this address; for Painting and Poetry have always been allovr’d Sister Arts; and whoever has arriv’d at the grand Const in the former, can never have an ill Relish of the latter.
I make no manner of Doubt but that the Merits of Sir Samuel Garth, both as to Physic and Poetry, are very well known to you: Tho’ his loss to the Sick be not So great while Dr. Mead Survives; yet to the Kingdom of Poetry it is very considerable. Here I should mention more of the excellent Qiialities of my dead Friend, particularly, his wonderful Humanity and Care of the Unfortunate. I dare believe, that no unhappy person ever applied to him, but that he made use of the utmost of his Interest to ease their Pain and Anxiety; But I am not here making a general Panegyric upon him, my only bufiness is wfith his Poetical Excellence,
S which
\
0
C
%
*
#
C 3 ]
« « ^
which has recommended him to that Receptibii in Parnajfus which I am going to describe.
Imagination, you know. Sir, has one of the foremost Places in the Kingdom of Poetry j and when it is large, and joiffd with Judgement, forms an excellent Poet. How defective Soever my Judgement may be, the following Discourse obliges me to enter the Kingdom of Fancy j and I hope not wholly without the Guidance of Judgement and Art
In the early Times of Poetryj among the Retainers of Parnajfmy there was a sort of a flying Steed, calsd Pegofm, and none could ascend thac Poetical Mountain, but those that were carry’d upon his Back, • he first bore Linm^ the Son of Apollo y Orphem, the Son of Calliopey Mofcm, Mtifiemy Hefiody and Homery who had Force and Addreis enough to rein and guide him at them Will. Nor was Pegafm uneasy with his Riders, to bear one Poet in an Age was no great Labour to him, • nay, he fuster^d quietly their encrease for many Years \ nor did he repine that he was So often castl’d on in Greece, not only by the Men, as Pindar and Anacreon, Mim ^ nermm, Efchylm, Sophocles, Euripides, Agatho, lho lyidesy lheodesiesy and many others; but by the Ladies likewise, as Sappho, Erinna, Corinna, and Several others of that Sex. But when Poetry be,, to Spread into Ionia, Sicily, and even to Egypt, in the Reign of Ptolotny Philadelphm, he found the Journeys too long and tedious, and too frequent for him to perform the whole bufiness of Parnajfm himself; and therefore pre * vaisd with the muses to intercede wfith Apohei
B % that
[4]
that he might have Some Coadjutor. His case being fairly laid' before the Delphic God; and he conssdering by his fore knowledge of Things, that Poetry would Soon Spread beyond the Bounds of Greece into Italy itself, where would arise Bards worthy of Parnajfm, he gave Pe gafm Power to beget a Race of Pegajiades; but yet, confining the Number to be employ’d, to the Nine Muses, this young Race, without regard to the Order of the God, went on beget ing the like, till Parnajfm swarm’d with the Breed; who, not being upon the Establishment, were glad to obey the Call of every Pcetafiery and fly Hackney for all that would employ them, • but were like all other Hackney Jades, very slow of Speed, and perpetually stumbling on the Road, • nor could they ever bring their Riders to the Sacred Hill of parnajim^ but, through devious and roundabout Paths, Set them down in the lowlands, at Some Distance from it, while only those Pegajiades that belong’d to the Muses and Apollo bore their chosen Burdens up to each Summit.
But the Inundation of barbarism having overrun all Greece, Apollo and the Muses were fain to remove their Seat, and chose to fix it to those happy Regions, where they were most likely to find no Disturbance for the future.
The Earth, in the Opinion of the best Geographers, rises five and twenty Miles above the rest of the terraqueous Globe under the dqua tor; upon this Eminence are plac’d the Mountains of the Moon; among which there is one that rises very high, and with a double Head. This Apollo and the Muses chose for their Sacred Retreat,
and the Reception of all these illiistrious Bards,
who
[ 5 ]
who were truly inspir^’d, and die in the Favour of Apollo I the Distance may Seem great to us Mortals, but the Influence of the God is not check’d by any Distance.
Hermotimpti, as Lucian tells us, us’d frequently to have his Soul leave his Body for Several Hours; and having taken its Range about the World, return’d, and re enter’d his Body. This may be look’d on as a fabulous Narration; but the modern Lheofhrajiiansy of the School, of Paracelftu, ^ seem’d to advance a Notion that may render it more probable : They hold, that the humane Creature consists of a Sort of atrinity, that is, of a Body, an Evestrum, and a rational Soulto the Body they attribute the Vegetation, by which it grows or encreases; to the Evestrum they allot the animal Part; and to the Rational, they assign all the Operations of reason that is the Seat of wisdcm, Learning, Virtue, and all that is Great and Glorious in Man. Thus, after Death, they divide ’em in this manner, to ' the Earth they commit the Body; the Evestrum they make So fond of its old Habitation, that it perpetually hovers about the Grave, or wanders up and down, and is the Ghost that furnishes out our Apparitions; the rational Soul leaveth the Body, as a prison to which it was long confin’d, flies up to Heaven, its proper Seat, its immortal Origin, without much ten derness and Regard to its ancient Companion, the Body. To apply this Doctrine to Hermcr timpny we must confider that it was his rational Soul that took this frequent Slight, leaving the Evestrum to perform all the Offices of the animal Life in her absence. If this be not enough to convince the Incredulous in this Par
B 3 ticular,
ftt
[ <5 ]
ticular, I must tell ’em, that in all the great Works of Contemplation, the rational Soul quits the Body, to mount up and view the Wonders of the great Creator. Thus it was with St. paui when he was wrap’d up into the third Heaven, he was not elevated So high in Body, but in Spirit. Thus, likewise, it was with all the holy Prophets, or Poets of Jfrael and ^udah^ they were lifted up in Spirit to See .all those wonderful Visions, which discover’d and denounc’d the Fate of Kingdoms. Thus, lastly, but in a much more inferior degree, the Bards are traniported from their present State, and made capacious of Truths, and the great Images of Things, which are deny’d to the grovelling Versifiers of all Times and Nations; for the airy Journey of the great Poets to par najftuy and the Conversation with the Muses and Apollo that is, with the richness of Nature, is perform’d by the Mind alone.
I thought it necessary to premise the foregoing Considerations, to render the Account I am going to give of my Voyage to Parnajjm the mere probable, that it may have the greater Force with Such into whose Hands it may fall.
Being retir’d 'Out of Town, I went to See and enjoy • the pleasing Abode of Clermont., a Seat of the illustrious Duke of ne’itecajlky celebrated by the immortal verse, verse worthy of its great Master, of my dead Friend Sir Samuel Garth, whose Poem I there read over, fronx whence, together with the most charming Prospect; in Nature, I fell into the most pleasing Contemplation in the World, which rais’d my Soul to Thoughts So Sublime, that I burst
put into a pathetic Invocation of Apollo and
'the
V V V
*
[7i
the Muses; a gentle balmy Sleep, at last. seiz’d on my Body ^ but my Soul quitting that, and its eveilrum., mounted one of the chosen pegafi ades, Sent me by Apollo at the earnestness of my Prayer. vve pass’d with incredible swiftness into the Air, and reach’d the new Parnajfm, with a Rapidity almost equal to Thought, * yet, in my lofty Passage, methought I Saw Several of my versifying Acquaintance, labouring on with their Hackney Pegajiades to the Same Place; at which, however, they never arriv’d, but were carry’d aside, either to a Sort of Vulcano, whence issued perpetual rumbling, caus’d by their Fustian verses; or else farther towards the Southward Pole, where their Writings fimpathiz’d with the coidness of that Clime, and were Soon frozen .up in an insipid Oblivion. From the Vulcano I heard Several verses, with which I was not unacquainted: I could hear Statim bellowing out.
Qua super impofito Moles geminata Colojfo j
£
t
and many more of the Same Stamp. There I heard poor Elkeanor^ with his
v^ofe broad built Bulks the boijlerom Billows bear.
♦
Thence likewise came all the Fustian Rants of our modern Stage.
%
I
Pall Darkness then and euerlajling Night
Shadow the Globe.
Let ihe'siher Moon be blotted from her Orb.
B 4
[ 8 ]
fthro all the inmofi Chambers of the Skyy Let there be not one Glimpfey or Jiarry Sparky But Gods meet Godsy and jostle in the darl That fars may rifoy and Wrath divine be hurl^dy And hake to Atoms all the solid World.
By Heavensy
Methinks ’mere an easy Leapy to phtck bright Honour from the pale facd Moon;
Or plunge into the Bottom of the Deepy, Where fathom Plummet never reached yet y And bring up drozvned Honour by the Locks.
I distinguish’d a great deal more; especially the
Rants of Maximiney Almanx^oy Phe Empress of Morocco; and of Several more modern Authors, which I have forgot. The noise was So loud and So confus’d, that I could not, indeed, easily commit them to my Memory; it is call’d a Vudcanoy not like Vefuvita and uetnay from the Flames and Fires it vomits up, but from the prodigious Smoke that ascends froin it, in contradiction to our old English Proverb, Lhere is no Smoke voithout some Fire; for, upon the nicest Inquiry, I was assur’d that there was no Such thing in the vast Concave of that Mountain, as real Fire, but a Sort of Vapour, or Ignis Fatumy that missed the hot brain’d Writers of that
t <•
Place to think there was j and that all the Smoke that came thence, was but their Breath, continually supply’d by their noisy Repetitions.
'Not staying, therefore, for this blustering Entertainment, we pass’d on and Soon arriv’d at the Foot of the Sacred Hill, where I quitted my Steed and made my Approach to the first Gate.
Before
r
[9]
jbesore you could enter this, you must pass a harrow drawbridge, which goes over a Sort of a River, whose Waters move So ssowly, that you can Scarce perceive any Motion they have, and you would rather take it for a standing Mote than a Stream; before I came upon this drawbridge stood two Sentinels, who were call’d Pedodidafcaliy their Countenances were formal and Supercilious; the one had in his Hand, for Anns, a Ferula the other a Rodt, they presently seiz’d me, and conducted me through the Gate to a Palace which stood directly in our Way; it was built of the Doric Order, Solid yet beautiful, where being arriv’d, I was led into a large Hall, wshere I found, upon a little Eminence, much like a Desk, Orthografhia; before whom being brought, I was examin’d in my Capacity of Spelling, which tho’ I took with a great deal of Indignation, I was yet forc’d to Submit to, and pass’d my Examination. Ortho -- graphia is comely in her person, of a Matronlike asped, which, tho’ it has a Sower crabbed Cast, is yet altogether beautiful: She finding my Unwillingness to Submit to her Orders, as thinking myself above that little Trial, told me, that the Orders of Apollo since the Reformation of Parnaffm, were So Severe, that no one could be permitted to pass further without it. Several formerly, both Male and Female, especially from England, having thrust themselves into the Sacred Abode, when they could Scarce Spell their Names. v/ith that she found I was not one of them, and therefore gave me a Permission to pass further; but that was but to the other Side of a handsome Qiiadrangle, where I was again stop’d and had into a large Hall, at
the
■V
•1
I
[ 10 ]
the upper End of which Sat in his Desk Syntaxis and here I was examiffd in all the Parts of Grammar, both as to Words and Construction; there having been too many who have pretended to Poetry, who yet made no Con science of solecisms. Having come off here like 'wise with success, I was permitted to go further. Passing therefore on, I came to another drawbridge, which run over a purling Stream, which played upon the Pebbles, and in its Passage made an agreeable murmuring Sound, that gave me a peculiar pleasure whilst I pass'd it. I was no Sooner over, but I entered a Spacious Walk, on each Side of which were pleasant Groves and Thickets, while the wanton Zephyrs played among the Trees, that Seemed to dance in measures, which I think I may better describe in Some verses of a Friend ol mine, upon a like Occasion.
I
Above the feather d freeborn Natives throng, ^ And in their treble Notes, and artless Song, > Salute Sabrina as jhe glides along: j
Sabrina, answering in a deeper Pone,
Does her Delight in grateful Murmurs own;
Phe am\oihi Zephyrs, with a youthful Breeze, play wanton round, and kifs the wilding Trees;
Phe Prees with foi the soft Caresses take.
And move in Measures to the Sound they make:
And thus above, beneath, and all around.
Nothing but Nature s Harmony is found.
On each Side played pleasant Fountains, and strong cascades with their murmuring Fall amused me as I went along; but that which / Seemed the oddest, were a Sort of Drums, which
beat
[ II D
beat all the whole Variety of long and short Numbers, without the common hoarseness and loud roaring of that Machine. At the End of tills Walk was situated a noble Palace, of the lonick Order; which, when I enter’d with my Guides, I came into a magnificent Salloon, where, in a lofty Rcjlrumy I found Profodia, the goddess of Numbers, attended by Tropology, the Master of poetic Didion; and having ^ pass’d a Severe Examination before them, ray two Guides, the Pedodidafcali, were dismifs’d, and I committed to a new Condudor, whose Name was Invention; led by him, I left the Palace of Profodia, in order to go on to that of the Muses. On the Way, Invention demanded of me, to which of the Nine immortal Sisters I us’d to pay my Devotion. I reply’d, Melpomene I to her Palace therefore. Said he, I will conduct you; and you shall be Sure of my Favour in your Recommendation to her; but you will be oblig’d, before you arrive at her Palace, to visit those of Phantafia, and that of Crijis and Sunejts; but which of them you will first visit shall be in your own Choice. By all means. Said I, let me ’ pay my first Duty to and Smefis; for there I may obtain perfect Judgement, and a Just Taste, by which I may be able to govern and regulate the various and wonderful Objects I must certainly meet with in the Palace of Phantajia. Invention approv’d my Choice, and, as we journey’d on, gave me Several valuable Instrudions for my Conduct in Poetry. We came now to another River, over which we pass’d on a lofty Bridge of white Marble; and I observ’d that the Stream pii the right hand above the Bridge was very
deep
I
ft
# I
i
• - *
[ ]
deep and slow in its Motion, as if it weigh’d and confider’d every Object on its Banks, as it pass’d along; but the Waters had no Sooner pass’d the Bridge, than they grew very shallow, by gliding thro’ a broader Channel, which turning and winding in a hundred Meanders, and with frequent Falls, and Sometimes great cata rads, hasten’d forward to the Palace of Phantajia.
* At the Foot of the Bridge there were three
Paths, one went directly forward to the Palace of Melpomene that on the left Hand to that of Phantajia', and the right Hand Path to the Abode of Crijis and Sunejis, whither we conducted our weary Steps : And being arriv’d at the Portal, we were receiv’d by Caution and Diffidence, who were the Introdudors of all Such as were admitted into the Presence of the Lord of this Place. They were not presently satis fy’d of my Qualistaations for Such Admishon, but Soon after brought me to my Audience. I observ’d that all Things here were perfectly regular, everything uniform, and difpos’d with the utmost Judgement and Decorum. Here we stay’d Some time, till I was thoroughly instruded in the Doctrines of this great Being, without which there can nothing be Great, Noble, or Lasting attempted in Poetry.
We past hence in a direct Line to the Palace of Phantajia, and So made the Way infinitely shorter to it, than those go who call’d not upon Crijis for Direction j for they wander through winding Paths and Labyrinths, before they can come to their journey’s End. I found the Palace of Phantajia, not built of Marble, Porphyry, or any more rich and valuable Stones; they were all too Solid for So airy a Structure,, *
was
[ H ]
was erected by Nature, of the Plants and Trees, and Flowers that were the most beautiful and odoriferous in the World, * here was no Regularity or Order consulted, but a Sort of agreeable Wildness Spread through the Whole, which prov’d So bewitching to Several who had been there, that they could never afterwards forsake it. Here were broken Rocks, and terrible Precipices, roaring Seas, Chimaera's, Hydra's, and various and infinite other Monsters, composed of different Forms and Natures; there were flowery Plains, green Fields, myrtle Groves, cool Grotto's, purling Streams, Fountains, aad all the pleasing Sweets of the most delicious Country. Here were the green wood lands, whose Lawns were trod by the Dr jades, hama dryades. Fauns, Satyrs, and other Sihan Gods, So famous among the Ancients; while in the adjacent Fields the Fairies danced their Rounds; Elves, Hobgoblins, and the shivering Ghofis, made up the dismal Company. Another Way nothing but frightful Objects meet your Eyes, Murders, Slaughters, Conflagrations, Shipwrecks, and all the terrible Catastrophes to which Mankind is Subject,, * short, the Images of all Things that ever w^re in Nature, or ever produced by the fruitful Imagination of Man, are in this Palace; the Images, I say, for I would not be misunderstood, as if I meant the Things themselves were there, but their Images wonderfully expressed in their proper Shapes and Colours, but with Such Confusion and disorder, that unless the Spedator be directed by Judgement, he will have Small Benefit from the View of the Sight; and yet there never was, nor never will be a true poetical Genius, without
being
I
C H ]
being admitted into this Palace, and received into the particular Favour of this goddess.
Having thoroughly confider’d all these ob jefts that we had Seen, and furnish’d ourselves with what we thought proper for our use, we departed and went directly towards the Palace of Melpomene. I will not prove So tedious as to be very exa<st in my Description of this illustrious Pile; I shall only take notice that it was of the Corinthian Order (as were indeed the Palaces of all the rest of the muses) and built of the finest Porphyry, with all Things that were necessary to form a perfect Magnificence and Majesty; a royal Road led up to it, flatted on each Side with lofty Cedars, which brought us to a rich Gate of Massy Gold, and that opening wide let us into the first Court, whence by noble Steps we mounted to a Second, and in the Same manner to a third, in which the Palace stood; entering which, my palsport was demanded, and I led into the Apartment of the Pajjionsy in order. to stay there till I was Sent for; but having my Companion Invention with me, I was not displeas’d with this Delay of my Audience, sir; ce I was satisfy’d I might render myself more, agreeable to Melpomene, by those instrikstive Lectures I might receive from a Conversation with the Pajjions. Accordingly I heard them all, and treasur’d up all they Said in my Memory; but those that I heard with most Attention, and most frequently, were Lerror and Pity., the most predominant and Sovereign in Tragedy. Here I learned their Secret Springs and Motion, as well as the reason why these two are made the principal End of that Part of the Drama; and found it to be, because they are the most general
C 15 ]
neral of all the Passions, and Spread, in a greater or less Degree, thro’ all Mankind.
Here I found the grave Ethick, Sovereign di redoress of the Passions, profoundly skill’d in the Virtues, Vices, and Habits of humane Mind, the Several Divisions and Compositions in Man; all which I learn’d from her, as well as the dis tindion of all the Qpalities of the Persons in the several Stations of the World, as what was agreeable to the Character of Princes, Generals, Judges, and other Magistrates, as well as the, Manners proper to every distinct Nation.
Having stay’d my allotted time in the Apartment of the Pajjions., I was brought up into a magnificent State Room, which was painted all round with the Architypes of all the valuable Tragedies that were ever written in Greece, or any other Nation. Here was the unhappy Lheban King, who stew his own Father and marry’d his Mother j next it was Antigone, the wretched Daughter of the wretched oedipm, whose obstinate Piety to her dead Brother Polynices brought on her own Death, and by that the Ruin of Creon, who had condemn’d her to be bury’d alive : Here were likewise elehra, the Ajax, and many more of the immortal Sophocles ■;, there was the pious Alcejlis dying for her beloved Husband; the furious Medea cutting her own Children to pieces, to be reveng’d on her false Husband who had forsaken her; with all the rest of those Plays that were written by Euripides; it w' oliid be endless to repeat them, and the rest that Antiquity Saw in Athens, and other Parts of Greece. Some there were likewise of Corneille and Racine, and the Orphan of Otvoay,
with Some few other English Tragedies. Fixing
my
/
\
[ I]
my Eyes upon the modern Pieces to look for
Lamerlane^ the Stepmother, Ulysses, and the rest of that author’s Performances, • because a great, Man has, in print, declar’d, that he was the greatest Tragic Genius that he knew, - I was surpriz’d to find not the least Sketch of all this Author has written, * but my Guide inform’d me, that, upon a late Reformation in Farnajfm, all his Works were entirely remedied, as having not So much as one Qiiality of a Tragic Genius.
When I had taken a View of all those Paintings, I heard, by the Sound of Trumpets, and other Musical Instruments, that Melpomene was going to enter. She came in with wonderful Majesty, - but I shall leave the Description of her to the following verses, taken out of the forequoted Poem.
Behold advance, in a majefiick Pace, ^
A Form Divine, that voith a charming Grace ^ Discloses terrible Beauties in her Face; y
Her Locks adovm her awful Stemples fall,
While her left Hand supports the regal Ball;
Her right the royal Sceptre waves around,
And her long Robe trails far upon the Grounds Her Feet the fiately Lydian Buskins press: : ^ ‘
Looks, these Fnfigns, and Imperial Dress ^ Lragick Muse to my plead.d Eyes confefsr j
Attended by Crijis and Sunefis, Sophocles and Euripides, Milton and Otway; the two last were added to her Train on the Account of my being an Englishman; she went directly to the Imperial Throne, eroded at the upper End of the Room, * where having taken her Seat, with Crisis
on
[ D 1
'<
bn the one Hand, and Sttnejts oh the other, and the Poets at her Feet, I was call d to my Audience. Modesty forbids me to mention those favourable Expressions she utterm to meall I dare tell, is, that I found inexpressible Raptures at the Indulgence she showm me, and the wonderful Truths which she pronounc’d. She told me all the.duties of a Tragic Poet, * and bid me never be missed by that Boyish Vanity of mere Words, the Grammarians Glory of Express jtony So far as to think the Excellence of Tragedy consists in that: No, that is but a mere dressj an Ornament only, that indeed Sets off the greater Beauties to a vulgar Ear; but as it is no Part of Poetry, it can never stand in competition with its ejfentiah. Think first of your Fable, weigh ic well, constder it thoroughly, see that all its Parts have a just Dependance upon each other i take care to chuse Such Incidents to compose your Fabky as necessarily produce Fear and Pity; aim at Perfediion, and be not contented with Indifference, or what is barely permitted i let therefore your Incidents produce one another, and all of them contribute to make the disco very and Change of Fortune, in which the chief Beauty of Tragedy consists; for tho’ the greatest of my Sons have perform’d very well in thejim^/e kind, yet the Implex has always given them their greatest Fame, * stis true, it is the more difficult Task, * but what is there great in Nature that is obtain’d without Labour?
But tho’ the Fable be the principal Part, and that which chiefly proves the Writer to be a Poet; yet since the Fable itself, wshich is the Imitation of an Adiion, cannot be represented without Actors, the next essential Care of the
C Poet,
[ i8 ]
Poet, is to confider the Manners for there is no Aftor, that is, Man, without the Manners ', for those distinguish Man from Man, and are form’d by certain Compofidons of the Passions. Virtues, Vices and Habits of the Mind: These must be perfeduy well mark’d, that is, plain and visible in every particular Character, and necessarily producing all the Actions of Such Charaderj they must like wise bt equal, that is, they must be the Same from the Beginning to the End. ’tis true, there are Characters in Nature which are unequal in their Manners; but, first, they are not general enough to be made choice of; and next, the shortness of the Tragic Action is Seldom capable of showing that Equality, which must be Seen even in that Unequalnefs, to render it fit to be admitted into the Drama at all. You find I have not taken notice of the Likeness, because that extends to none but Flistorical and known Characters; and Time has not produc’d four good Tragedies' founded upon History. However, since there is nothing impossible to a great Genius, and you may, perhaps, meet with slime Character in History, which you may think fit to introduce into your Tragedy, remember that you give Such Character no (^ality, which the historian has not allow’d himat least, no Quality that is contradidory to those which he has in History; but here lies the Difficulty in choosing Flistorical Characters, that they are all pnr ticular; whereas it is a necessary Condition, that Such as are admitted into Tragedy be general, since from a Particular no general Instruction can be drawn.
One
I
»
C 19 }
One Caution Till give you let your Braiiia^’ tick Characters be So artfully chosen, that they be not endowm with the Same Qualities and Inclinations, * the farther they are from one another, the more distinct they will be and the more Vissbie that Distindion will appear to the Audience.
* >
I need not insist on the Sentiments, since they are the Ested of the Manners, and make therii known to the Hearer; you iiiust not therefore, wander after ungovernd Fancy; but must thoroughly weigh and confider what Such Qualities, pastionsj Virtues, Vices and Habits, and their Composition and Mixture in that Place, Would make any one think on Such an Occasion j and that only you must express in your tfibion^ the Beauties of which are very disterent; for every Passion has its peculiar Language which excludes that Uniformity of Style, which has been too much purfffd in your Colintry as an Excellence and Perfection; nay, they have been So very wild in their Notions, as to think that the only and Sovereign Perfection of Pragedy itself But you, my Son, mind not the Censure and Opinion of the Vulgar, labour not for their praise and applause, nor be exalted with their Smiles, or dejected with their Frowns; but follow the Precepts of Art and Nature, and study the Language of every particular Passion, which will be Sure to meet with the Approbation of the Judicious, which only you ought to aim
I have heard your Invocations with Some sa tisfadion, and, as a Mark of my Favour, I allot you these two immortal Poets as your. Guides and Diredors, to show you the Secrets,
C a and
• ^
•1
t 20 ]
and open to you the immortal pleasures of this Sacred Retreat, which the God of Harmony has provided for those he favours: Upon which she directed Milton and Omay to attend me during my Stay, and'^ive me what further instru^ions might be yet necessary for me to receive.
As Soon as she had done Speaking, an immortal Symphony ensued, and vocal and instrumental Mustek joiffd to make the Harmony the most transporting that ever I heard. Milton, Otway, and myself, with Some Regret, left the Presence of Melpomene, to pursue my Journey to the rest of varnajj'm, and to enjoy the Conversation of those two great Poets, who led me to the Palaces of all the rest of the Muses, which Surrounded all the lower Parts of that immortal Hiss, a Description of which would be too tedious for this Place; I shall therefore reserve that to another Opportunity. But I found when we came out from them, that we had, insenstble Degrees, mounted above the general Level of the rest of the World, and had a most engaging prosped over it, which cannot be express’d by Words; on every Side we Saw Groves and purling Streams, that tumbled down the Hiss with a most mustcal Cadence. Before we gain’d the Summit of the Mountain, we enter’d a most delicious Grotto, where we were no Sooner Set down to refresh ourselves, but we Saw a Troop of Animals, which very much resembled Monkeys, clearing the Way, pafs on with their Governor at their Head; but they could not go by us without showing Some of their antic Tricks, endeavouring to imitate us, tho’ awkwardly, in their Actions. When they were gone, I discover, Said
Miltorty
• t
4 ^
¥.
W[
[ ]
in your Eyes a Curiosity to know what jchose Creatures are that are just gone by us: They are, continu’d he, the Imitators, who Set up for Poets, by imitating the Style of this or that celebrated Author; and he that leads them was Famitinm Stradny the Jesuit, that was So well acquainted with ancient Poets, that he gave the World an Imitation of every one of them of any Note. Their bufiness here i
generally to cleanse the River that runs under n.
the Palace of Profodiay and which you pass’d over to come to this Place, to keep it clear of Mud, or any Obstruftions that may hinder the dancing Murmurs of that Water i but they have now been employ’d to Sweep and cleanse all the Paths that lead up the Mountain of Parnajfm to the very Temple of Same or Glory, where, in a few Hours, will be receiv’d the immortal Garths to whose Inauguration there, all the muses, and every blessed Being of this Place, will Suddenly ascend. J am much surpriz’d,
Said I, to find Strada in no better a Post here, who with us has been exalted to the very top of criticism. Whatever he has been with you, cry’d Milton, you find, that in the Opinion of Apollo and the Muses his Merit is not So considerable. He had no Sooner done Speaking but I Saw another Troop pass upwards, loaded with Garments, with heavy aspeds and plodding Steps, many of whose Faces I thought I well remembered to have Seen among the topping Wits of our Time and Nation: these, Said ptway, were your little Critics on Words, nice in Expressions, and perpetual Declaimers on the fine Language and fine Things they found in the Several Poets, but never could arrive at the
■ C 3 t#lte
ftp
«
[ IX ]
Taste of their greater Excellencies; they are here the Tailors, who are only taken up with making the Garments of the Poets; nor can they arrive at making a whole Garment, but com pose only every one a Several Part of it, which are put together by a stronger Genius. These are Discoveries, Said I, which would Scarce find Credit, should I report them in Britain. Never fear. Said Milton the censure of the half witted and ignorant Pretenders of the Age, you are chosen to greater Things thai; i to build on the frail Reputation of the Applause of Fools, * to please one Man of Judgement, is of more conse quence than to gain the thundering Claps of a thousand injudicious Audiences.
Though you have had admirable Instructions from the Divine Melpomene, yet I shall presumc, by her Permission, to throw in Some Advice, which, tho’ of less Importance than what she has Said, may yet be of use towards your gaining that Perfection which ought to be the Aini of every wise Poet. First then, as to Monologues or Soliloquies, you ought to use them with the utmost Caution; that is, they must be extremely short, and Spoken in Passion, as has been observm by that Noble Critic that writ the eifay upon Poetry, which is already laid up in the Archives of Parnajfm. The Moderns are much deceived when they take many Things in the ancient Greek Poets for these Monologues; though they are indeed Spoken to the Chorus, who are always present on the Stage. ^ Another Instruction I shall mention, is in regard of Descriptions. The Moderns have little considered their Necessity, - that is, they have not taken care to
Uflake em of Some use to the Design; but right
• %
\
I
[in
or wrong, with a boyish wantonness, give iis Such as are merely idle, and not at all necessary. The Lucus & Ara Dianre complainm of, and condemn’d by horacby tickle their Imagination in Such a manner, that makes them quite negligent of the Admonitions of Judgement. There have been Poets in England, Poets did, I say? I mean play wrights, for they deserve not the Name of Tragic Poets, who have fix’d their Reputation and success on this alone j when Fancy, and Chance have furnish’d them with an Occasion to describe a Fountain, a rapid Stream, a stormy Sea, they have laid out all their Genius upon it, and Spread it about among their Friends to bribe their Understanding, and Secure their appiause to the rest of the Performance, tho’ in it there. be neither Manners, Sentiments, ox even Sometimes
Connexion. How different was the Method of the Ancients in this Particular? For as their Descriptions were infinitely more strong, lively and eloquent. So were they never introduc’d, but to Supply those Things which were essential to the Plot, and more beautiful than the Representation of them on the Stage would be; for there are often Incidents in Tragedy, which, tho’ necessary to the Dessgn, yet the Eye would judge to be shocking to Credibility. Thus that admirable Description of the invenom’d Robe in the Medea of euripdes is wonderfully moving; tho’ it could never have been represented on the Stage. There is nothing more hard to represent than Death, and' 'thqse cruel Objects with which our Stage top niuch abounds, and which have given Occasion to Foreign Critics to reproach us with Barbarity, that yve, as Ijlmders, take Delight in Spetstacles of Blood and Siaugh
4 tersi

I
I
I
[ M ]
ter; whereas those were Innovations brought in by an ignorant Age, and continued since by Want of Judgement and resolution in the Succeeding Writers. There is another thing which robs the English as well as the French Stage of many Beauties more agreeable to its Majesty and Design, .and that is Love; I mean the tedious whining Scenes, where the Lover makes his Addresses to his mistress. There never was, and I believe never can be any Scene of that Nature that can please a true Judge : First, they want Action, the very Soul of the Drama; next they want Majesty, which is essential to Tragedy; again they are not entertaining, for they touch no Passion; they are indeed Sometimes Something'enliveffd by a foolish jealousy about Trifles, but even then they Seem to me as So many detacffd Scenes which suspend the Action, and would therefore be much better left out. There
• T *
is yet another Inconvenience of a considerable consequence, and that is, that they generally shock that Modesty, which is the Charaderistick of the fair Sex; for it brings a Necessity upon the Woman of confeshng and avowing Such a Violence of Passion for her Lover, even be fore Marriage, as does not Seem fitting for a Virgin to do.
I would not have you mistake me, I am not for excluding Love entirely from the Stage; the Ancients themselves did not do that, witness the Helena and Alcejiis of Euripides i but then that Love was always betwixt Man and Wife, that Condition allowing the Woman the utmost Excels of that Passion, which heightens the cha pdef of her Modesty and Virtue. Who can read or the tender Love pf alcejusy making her
chuse
C 15 ]
t ^
diufe to die with all the Bloom of Youth about her, ©nly to Save her husband^’s Life, without compassion?? will not insist upon the A ncients for farther Proof of this Particular, I refer you to the Venice Prefers d of that worthy Author, who sits by us; show me one of those Scenes of making Love, either in French or Englifii that moves like all that pastes between Jnjfier and Behidera, Man and Wife. And all the Pathetic of monimid.s Character is after the discovery of her Marriage to cafia lio. If therefore the Fear of making a Breach in that Modesty, which ought to be esteem’d es fential in a woman’s Character, makes me declare against the Scenes of Love which I have mention’d, much more must I do So against thosc Characters of that Sex, which are expressy unchaste. A vvhore is far unfit for the Tragic Scene., and therefore Cleopatra was very injudici ousty chosen by a great Poet of our Nation, and which he made still more shocking, by introducing obavia (as he himself confestes) a Wife perfiftstly virtuous, and Suffering by the unlawful Love betwixt her Husband Anthony and Cleopatra. I would not mention the Fair Penitent., ’jane Shore, and Some others, which are expressy excluded the Tragic Scene by Apollo and the Muses, did not you yet live where they are receiv’d with an unjust applause.
I know it has been objected. That the Ancients were not innocent in this Particular, and that they give Phadra as an Instance of it. But alas! this is either out of Ignorance of the Ancients, or by mistaking Seneca for one of them, * the Phadra, indeed, of that Poet, is fcandaloussy im pudent; but no good Judge ever had much es jem for Seneca's Tragedies, which are a shameful \ ■»
h
tz<5]
fill Perversion osthe beautiful Fables ostdie Greeh, tho’ taken from them; look into the Phadra of Euripides, and you find indeed an unfortunate Lady, but in nothing Scandalous; she labours under a guilty Passion inflicted on her by the Anger of a Deity j but how does she struggle with it? With what Pain and Anxiety? With what Relblution, I niight say, does she combat with it? And sho’ unable to escape a Punishment laid on her by the Gods, yet does she never yield Ib far to it, as to be guilty of the least Immodesty; lb far is she from being a voluntary Prostitute, like Evadne in the maids pra^edy, and the rest that I have named. ' ^ '
As this Caution is pecelsary for the Female Characters, So there is another as necessary for the Male. There are two Extremes Which you must carefully avoid j the first, never to introduce
a perfect Virtue. * '
/
A faultless Monfier, whom the jhvorld ni'^r saw.
He must be guilty of Faults, but those the ef fed of the Violence of Some Passion, under which he labours for want of resisting, till he becomes criminal: But then on the other fide, he must not be guilty of any Faults that are in their Nature Scandalous, no habitual wickedness, like the Iago's of our Stage, most profligate Villains, and fit only for the Punishment of the Hangman, not the Poet. The former Character of Sovereign Virtue has nothing in it Tragical; for it neither moves Fear nor Compassion; all that See Suffering Virtue, feel Indignation, not Pity; it makes them quarrel with Providence, but produces not one Effect worthy of Tragedy.
I Qn
«
V
[^7]
On the other fide, the Second Character is fully as little Tragical : We rejoice to See a wicked Man Suffer, nor doth it touch any one with Fear; for what moves Fear, proceeds from the Susterings of Such that are like ourselves, but not of Such as are guilty of those Scandalous Crimes,
Such deliberate Wickedness, Such confirm’d vil lanies, into which we assure ourselves we can never fall, and by consequence that we have no manner of reason to apprehend that we are liable to any Such Punishment as he meets with. A Tragedy compos’d by the Precepts you have re / from the Divine Melpmeney and me, will be truly worthy of Immortality; they were l’ragedies like that which the great Stagyrite pronounc’d to be more moral than Philosophy;; they were Such Tragedies which were of old call’d the Poems of Kings; whereas those that have been too long in Vogue, are less moral than Pe pronius Arbiter, and are only fit to be call’d the
Poems of Eootmhn.
There is one Thing that most modern Poets have miscarried in, and that is in the opening of their Plays, which they either clog with tedious Narrations, or else by broken Scenes, So little to the purpose of the Action, that they might be left out without any Detriment to the Plot.
1 would recommend to you the Consideration of the opening of Venice 'Prefers d, where the State and Condition of the future Action and Dramatic Persons is not left to a lame Account of indifferent Persons, merely and plainly to bring the Audience acquainted with it, but is most artfully discover’d in a passionate Scene betwixt Priuli and Jaffier, for all the Misfortunes of the latter, and his Wife Belvidera,. proceed from that
barbarous
'* ft
3
\
t ]
barbarous Cruelty of the old pkmli in that very
Sc.
There is one thing more I shall add, and that is, as to the Place of your Scene. Never choose a Siege, all things are there full of Noise and Hurry, Drums, Trumpets and Cries of the distress’d j whereas the Scene of 'Tragedy should have no Noise, but what proceeds from the e motion of the Pashons; besides, the putting your Scene in a Siege, is a great Hindrance to that Unity of Place, which is certainly absolutely necessary in this Poem. Here Milton made an End, and having return’d him my Thanks for his friendly Instrudions, I promis’d to use my Endeavours to put them perfectly in Practice.
Faffing from this difcourse, I was very particularly curious to inquire into all the Transactions of parnaifus, and having heard Mention of V a late Reformation in that Place, I express’d a
Desire to be inform’d about it. That, Said Otway, shall be my Task, and only for your Satisfaction; for whatever you may think fit to publish, relating to our Abode, I am afraid you will imagine the Account of this Transaction too shocking to the general Opinion of your World, to let it go farther. You must know therefore, that it was but' very lately we had a very Severe v^ fitation from apouo, for want of which many Corruptions had taken place: Parnajfus lay o pen, and not guarded, as now, by those Several Passes and Avenues, through which you were admitted at your coming hither i and every little Hackney Pegafiades Set down his uselefs Burden upon our Hill, So that there was not a trifling Scribbler that had met with any Succels in Italy, France. Spain. England or anywhere else, but
chimd
/
[19]
claim’d his Share inparnajfm; whence, instead of that Peace and Unity which Truth and Knowledge bring forth, there were nothing but perpetual Jars anddiscord caused by the daily and impudent Usurpation s'of Error and' Ignorance, till the true Poets were afraid that they should be driven from this last Retreat of Merit by worthiest Pretenders; and therefore they apply’d to apouo for a Visitation, and beg’d him to vindicate their Rights and his own Honour: Accordingly it was published throughout all par najfm» that every one should appear before him, and produce their Claim to their Habitation in this Place. A Day was appointed for the Poets, and Pretenders to Poetry, of every Nation, where they had full Hearing and Examination of their Worits, and were accordingly either confirm’d in their Postession of this Place, or driven out with Infamy. I will not here detain yon with the Fate of Particulars of other Nations, nor Say much of that of our own, since when you come up to the Temple of Fame, you will find in that Astembly in what Order Apollo and and the Muses have rang’d us: But this I must tell you, that many of those who had got in by their own Assurance, or the injudicious Applause of Some leading Wits, were pronounc’d to be no Poets at all, and banish’d for ever from the Confines of Parnaffm. You may see Several haughty Pretenders marching away with dole fill Faces, and bearing off the heavy Volumes of their Works, the Bulk of which was no Advantage to any one here; Beaumont and Fletcher being only sav’d by two of their Comedies, nor by those could be rais’d above the lowest Rank or them that were permitted to stay j and if it
had
i
*
[
had not been for Shakefpears l*empeflj he would Scarce have been allowed a Place among the Pramatick Poets. 'Tis true; his admirable Draughts of the Manners would have Secured him a Residence in this Place, yet only as a dialo gift; Others were received only for one Poem, as Denham for bis Cooper s hill. I must observe one thing for the Honour of our Country, that Ben. yohnjon bore the Prize of Comedy from the Ancients and Moderns of all Nations; Shadwell
and tvicherly, Menander and Terence, Moliere and Some few others, were likewise received with the highest Approbation, though all allotted but a Second Place to the immortal Ben. I shall say nothing of our English Tragic Poets, lest I should Seem too stiuch exalted by the good Fortune I have had in pleasing our Sovereign Apollo; I shall however tell you, though' before his Face, for Truth here may be told without the Suspicion of Flattery, Milton has carried the Honour of the English Name to its greatest height. Setting in all public Assemblies on a Seat with Homer and Virgil. Martial, finding Catullus reserv'd, strove hard, and made many Puns, and many fine Points, as they call them, in hopes to prevail with Apollo and the Muses, to Suster him to remain as his Compani n; but nothing could Save him, he was obliged to go out of Parnajjus with Petrarch, most of the Provincial Poets, and many of the Italians, to inhabit a pleasing Valley at Some Distance from this Mountain, where all the Plants and Trees are either Shrubs, or of a dwarfish Growth, and which is called the Vah lay of Epigram, where though' they want all the Sublime Joy that we poffess, they are not withouc Such as are agreeable to their Capacity and
Taste.
%
C ?■ ]
Taste. Pamajfus being thus cleans’d and purg’d of all its dross, Care was taken to preverit the like Inconveniences for the future, * and therefore Apollo caus’d the Foot of the Hill to be Surrounded l those Rivers which you pass’d, and no body to be permitted to enter without those Examinations you went through at your En ^; not that every one is brought to the Palace of Melpomene as you were, only the tiragick Writers come there; the Heroic, to that of Clio: the Comic, to tihalia i the Lyric, to Calliope; and So on: And when they have there obtained the Approbation of the Several Muses who preside over their Manner of Writing, they are permitted to come with Freedom all over this happy Abode. You may wonder perhaps to find the Palaces of the Muses at the Bottom, and not on the Top of the Hill; but you must know that those Palaces are not the dwelling places of the Muses, those are upon the height of parmf fus, and Surrounding the Temple of Fame, as you will find when you ascend thither, as we immediately must; for I hear the Trumpets that Summon us to attend the Reception of the immortal Garth who is this Day there made free of Pamajfus, and publicly declared to be a lawful Inhabitant of it. All I shall therefore add, is. That those Palaces at the Foot of the Hill are, the Courts of Judicature of the Muses, where they examine, approve or reject all Such as are Candidates for their Favour.
Here Otway made an End, and we all three rose up and went on till we gain’d the Summit of the Hill; that is, to a Spacious Plain ^ that join’d the two Heads of Parnaffm together. I shall not here detain you with a Description of
the
« •
C lo
the Several Dwellings of the Muses; nor of the wonderful Structure of the Temple of Fame, or Glory, much different from what has been given us by those who have pretended to describe it, whose Descriptions agree only with the Abode of Rumour : I shall only say, that as the Builders were Divine, So the Materials 'are Heavenly : It is in the Form of a vast Amphitheatre, in the middle of whose Circumference is a Space filfd up with ineffable Light, and may be call’d the sansium sansiorum of the Temple, whence all the Oracles of Apollo are deliver’d, and all his Commands received : At this time the Immortal and Pious Bards were dispos’d of each fide of it; here were Homer, Virgil, Spencer, Milton, and many more of all civiliz’d Nations; there were tiajfo, Ariofio, dry dm, at least his Place was there, tho’ he was deputed to atteiid on Garth in his Entrance there were likewise Denham, Cowley, and many more, too long here to mention.
It is impossible to express the wonderful Harmony of both Vocal and Instrumental Mustek; among the latter were not only all the Instruments in use amongst the Ancients and Moderns, but many more unknown to Mankind; Some of which may perhaps be hereafter invented: Here, in the midst of all these Triumphant Songs, Garth was introduced, conduced by Dry den and the famous Dr. Harvey, one, as he was a Poet; the other, as a Physician, Before him was carried the Dispensary by Crijis and Phantafia; but I was surpriz’d to find, that the Book that was carry’d before him was in Quarto; which made me sup pofe it was the first Edition. He was followed by Profodia and "Propology, and various others, too
numerous
A
%
/
t
till
huineirous for me to particularise. He was tliui led up to the Oracle of apouo, and there crown’d with a Wreath of Bays, and another of Laurel, and having receiv’d the benedi^iori of that God, he was conduced to his Place next to Dmham; and had confer’d upon him ass Office agreeable to his Temper; which was to be Advocate of all his Countrymen, who should Set up for Candidates of Poetical Fairie.
I have not here time to give the reasons why Physicians were adinitted into Parnajfm; for there I saw not only Harntejy but Hippocrates Galen Celsus Sydenham, pp^tuis, Radcliff, and Some more : I saw likewise the Works of Some of my Contemporaries, who were hereafter to be admitted into this paradise, which yet I am forbid to mention. One thing I wzs surpriz’d at, which was, that I could not find Lucretius; but I understood the reason of it was that he Was an Atheist, and therefore excluded. I have been so long that I dare not enlarge niy dif colirse, to give an Account of the various and transporting Pleasures of this Place; and which Words are, indeed, too poor and barren to express. What I have to say upon thatj and upoil • those Discoveries I made in the Temple of Fame, particularly relating to the few Patrons of Poetry, and the politer Arts, with the Honour and Glory they enjoy, I defer to another Opportunity j when I shall likewise give an Account of the rest of the muses, and the admi*^' table Precepts they gave to bring to Perfedioii in each their chosen Adorers. The Favours and Instrudions I had receiv’d, gave me the Privilege of being carrym back by Pegasus him
D Self
#
#

%
/
[ Mi
f
Self, who bore me from Mount Parnajfus to Claremont almost as Swift as Thought j where, re entering my Body, I got up and blessm the Race, the happy Mansion that had astbrded me So glorious and useful a Vision;; from thence made what haste I could to commit it to wri
I
ting, in the manner I send it to you. I shall only here add, that I am. Sir,
Tour mofi humbley
%
and ?nojl obedient Sevvanty
\
Carlo Amontesocio.
N 1
I
!
I
»
I
I
1
1
j
%
»
%
i Byse™*^ I
%
\
V '
I
%
%
I
f
#
[ j5 ]
9
#
LETTER IL
On Players,
Toms Mmdus Agit Hiftrionm.
Life a a poor Player
That frets and jiruts his Hour on the Stagey And then is heard no more.
V
To Mr. W -- -- -- s, whh a Manufcrlpt Plaji
Sir,
WITH this I have Sent you, by a particular Friend, a manuscript Pragedjy not doubting your Justice and Understanding,
So far as to fear its Reading and Reception. Were it my own, I should not be So confident of its success, either with you or the Town; but it being an Alteration of the best Performance of a very popular Poet, Several of whose Tragedies are still acted with the highest applause, it gives me the Assurance to hope that it will have a more particular Regard from you, than if it had been the Product of the present Time.
I could have many Recommendations from the best Judges, but that one of your Colleagues once told me on a like Occasion, that a Play must recommend itself; which, indeed, had been true, were it to come before competent
Da, Judges, *
i
/
[
V
Judges; but when Fancy and uoguided Opinion are to decide the case, one would imagine that the Approbation of a real Judge in the Art might have been of Some Weight and consequence - as few Gentlemen will purchase Pictures of any Value, without consulting a Master in the Art of Painting; for fear of making So w''orthiels a Collection, as a certain Nobleman of this Nation once did; So it Seems an equal piece of Prudence, that Gentlemen of your Post should have Some regard to the Opinion of the great Masters of Lragedy. But since that is not always to be had, and Sometimes is obtain’d thro’ Favour, by those who do not at all deserve it: And since the Directors of the playhouse are generally persons who declare against the Rules of Art, as Obstacles to per fedion and Excellence, at least, to the taking of a Play, ' I shall lay down two or three Observations by following of which they will be Sure never to receive a Play which will not please the Town.
Mr. Betterton told me once, upon talking on this Subject, that King Charles II was us’d to foi, he wonder’d how the Players, that were perpetually conversant with Plays, could be So frequently deceiv’d, as not to have one in three answer their Expectation. The reason of this, continued he. Seems to be the filling our Heads, and loading our Memories, with good and bad promiscnoussy, which confounds our Judgement, as having no fix’d and stated Rules to form it by, the Taste of the Town being So uncertain and fickle, that our Observation of what had pleas’d could astbrd us very little Help in the Matter, since the Same Things, that had been
receiv’d
C 17 ]
receiv’d one season with the greatest and most universal applause, are hiss’d off thg Stage the
next.
To remove this Uncertainty, at least, as to Tragedy, the Subject of my present Writing, I shall lay down Some Remarks for your Guide, which never did, nor never will mistead you, or any one concern’d in your Post; you must have a care not to be bewitch’d with what they call fine Language, * it is not So easy a Matter to distinguish what is So, or what will be thought So by the Town, as to receive or reject a Play upon that Account: ’tis true, there are Several Plays have met with success, only for the Opinion that the Audience had of the fineness of the Didion, whether that Opinion was grounded in Justice, or in Fancy alone I shall not therefore wish you to have much Regard to that, since there is nothing in it to be depended upon; what I shall tell you is infallible: You are call’d Actors, because the bufiness of playing is Action i the very Name of a Play, in the Original, signifies Action,, • it is certain, let the Action be good or bad, it will always keep the Attention of the Audience, and the more constant and violent the Action is, the more it will be attended by them j wherever there is Passion, there must necessarily be Action; those Tragedies therefore, that have a perpetual Succession of Passion, can never miscarry. It is this Quality that has preserv’d and still keeps up the Tragedy of Alexander the Great, which Mr. Crmm found fault with, in a discourse with me one Day, because it was continually on the fret, as he call’d it, from the Beginning to the End that is, the Pashons were lively and strong
D 3 through
#
%
ft
cin
through the whole Piece, which So took up the Audience, that they had no leisure or Interval of Quiet to grow weary and be disgusted. The Play I Send you is of this kind; there is a perpetual Succession of Passions, joyffd with a wonderful distress, which must Secure you against all Fears of its Reception.
I shall therefore Say no more about it, being Satisfy that I have put it into the Hands of a Man of Honour, though a Player; for I am not of their Opinion who think those Terms incompatible; I am Sure they have not always been So, the Players in ‘athens were generally Men of Figure, at least, of Learning and singular Parts; and were often fitted by the Stage for Embassies of the Commonwealth. In Romej where I con fess the Stage and Playing had not that honourable Rise as in Greeceyet there I find, in Ciceros Time, the principal Players were §ot a little valued by the Nobility: Thus, in his Oration for Archias the Poet, I find Cicero Speaking to the Quality of Rome in this manner: Who of yvu vcere not lately concern d and grieved for the Death of roscius;, thinking that he ought, indeed, to have been immortal, for that fufreme Excellence of ’which he vjos Mafier in his Art?
'Afopus was a Tragedian about that Time,
of equal Esteem among the Romans, and both of them admitted to particular Familiarity with the greatest Men in Rome; and the Son of the latter had those immenie Riches left him by his Father, that he would dissolve and drink off a precious Gem of great Price at a Draught. I shall not go farther in the Roman Empire, nor touch upon thole Players who made So considerable a Figure in the Imperial Qourt, in the Time of Nero,
{
CI]
and Some others \ because it may be Said, that the Favour they met with, was owing rather to the Corruption of those Times, than to their Merit as Actors.
No, I will come to the Thing itself, the in trinssck Value of the Profession. Petronius tells us, that
Lotus Mundus agit Hijirionetn;
That is, all the World are Players. You must know. Sir, that the ancient Actors, both of Greece and Romey wore over their Faces a sort of Vizor Mask, which they calsd Perform, this Mask was form’d, as near as they could, to represent the Countenance of the Hero whom they acted, which Likeness they took, either from the Descriptions of History, or from the Pictures and Statues of the most famous Painters and Sculptors, and So contriv’d, as not to hinder the Lines of the Face from appearing, as the Passion they represented requir’d; how this was done, indeed, is not Sq easily discover’d by those perfomsy which we have receiv’d from them in their Bajfo relievos; but I can depend upon an Assurance given me by a great and ingenious Nobleman of this Kingdom, that the first Italian Comedians who came. into franccy and whom he Saw, had contriv’d the Masks they acted in So artfully, that they could, notwithstanding them, make tliose Several Alterations in their Countenance which their Parts requir’d. But be this as it wdll, I have not time to run thro’ a full disquifitionof the Matter; nor would it be very much to our present purpose, it’s enough for me to observc, that this
4 Mask
■>
[ 40 ]
Mask gave occasion to this Saying of Petronius,
That all the vvorld are Players that is, all Men put on a Face that is not their own, and ad Parts which do not always agree with their own Temper and Inclinations. For this reason likewise. Players were call’d Hypocrita or Hypocrites; that is, persons wsho appear to be one thing and were another. As on the Stage you have good Actors and bad. So in the greater World, of which yours is a Sort of Miniature, there are awkward Hypocrites, whom every per fon discovers to be mere Actors; and there are others, who are Such exquisite Masters in the Art of Dissembling or Acting, that the speda tors cannot but believe they are what they Seem to be; and it requires Some Time, and Discernment too, to find them out. iied Prim puts on a Saintly Appearance, Gravity in his Countenance, Severity in his discourse, with all that pensorioufiiess on the wickedness and Vices of the Age, which the greatest Religion and Innocence could Scarce justify; and yet Ned js a very Libertine in his Heart, and in his Life a perfect Gontradidion to his Words and Professions. Harry Graveairs loves the Company of the Gay and the Young, particularly of Women, of which, when he makes his Escape out of the City, hell be Sure to mingle with the most vile and lewd, provided they are but Young; but within Lemple bar, and So to the very remotest easterly Parts of the Town, he asseds to be thought an Admirer of the Grave and the an tient, whether Male or Female; and ads hi Part So well, that he passes for a very worthy and Sober Citizen, whose Blood is very snow broth, as Shakespeare calls it, perfectly cold an
'. chillingi '
^
^ ' 1
V
\ *
[ ¥ ]
chilling, and whose pulse never beats high enough to warm him to any irregular Desires. Thus every Morning he pays his Court to two old Aunts, the younger of which is fourscorc; with them he passes constantly Some Hours, and has persuaded them there is no Company in the World So agreeable as theirs, tho’ he curses them in his Heart, and wishes the Devil would Setch 'em the next Moment, that he might come immediately into the polsession of forty Thousand Pounds, which he expedis from them as the Reward of his hypocrisy, and which, if he obtains, as most certainly he will, if he happen to outlive them, you will Say that he is an excellent Player; and that he has perform’d his Part with the utmost success. Thus might I go. thro’ all the Characters and Stations of Life, and Icarce find one that does not more or less disguise his own Thoughts and Inclinations; and So may well come into the Number of thosc who are call’d by Petronius Players. They may object, for the lessening the Esteem of your Profession, that it is Mercenary, and that you assume a borrow’d Shape only to get Moneys but then they do not confider that all their Dilguife is not only for the Same End, but mis xhievous; yours is directed to divert and please us, theirs to ruin us and give us Pain.
Shakespeare has another Saying not much unlike this, ^
Life s a foor Player
That frets and flruts his Hour on the Stage,
And then is heard no more,
%
This Ressedion of Shakespeare s is drawn froman‘
Other Confide ration than that I have mention’d
^ • • *
out
• h
ft
[ 3
out of Petronius; the former chiefly regards the dilsembling of Mankind; this the Shortness of his Duration, and the little Consequence of the most noisy and important of his Actions;; that Hurry and Bustle, that the greatest make use of in their pursuits of Wealth or Ambition, their Enmities and Revenge, and all their other Passions, vanish in an Hour, are heard no more, nor remember longer than the fretting and strutting of an Ador on the Stage, which is forgot almost as Soon as the Curtain falls. these two Instances are fusticient to show the Value of the Profession of a Player, that is Such an Emblem of Humanity, that conveys to us, at one View, the Manners of all the World: ' I might i?ere mention the great use and Benefit of aeling to Mankind, and how much it contributes to the promoting of Virtue j but that this Advantage is only accidental to it, and not essential, as arising from their acting good Tragedies, whose instrudive Moral must teach us Some Virtue, or warn us of Ibme Vice or Folly; and this is properly and essentially due to the Poet, for the Player may, and often does, ad Plays that are a mere fmitless amusement.
But whither am I wandered from the Point and proper bufiness of my Letter, which was to recommend the Tragedy I have sent you? and hope, that though you are an excellent Player on the Stage, I shall not find you So off on it, but that truly honest Gentleman you were always taken to be, by, Sir,
Tour mofi humble Servant
Christopher Meanwsll.
i
[«]
«
an />tn/an/a>n/>/n/an/^yw^/an/>(n/wnv><n/«n/a»^/wn/>#n/>^/ii#n/i*n^'i^
LETTER III
4
»■
The Antiquated Whore,
Audivere Dimea 'vota Lyce.
To Mrs, D -- -- -- -- -- at her House near King
street, covent-garden.
For Shame, for Shame give oer,
Thou over ridden ivbore.
A Very odd Beginning, yoffll Say, Madam,
of a Letter to a Lady. True, but to an old Harradan, no more than is her due : I think you are now in your fifty fifth Year; therefore Vis time to leave off all thosc Soft Addresses to which you were, perhaps, us’d about Some five and thirty Years ago : Can you not forget all the Flatteries of your Youth, when you have no Flatterer left but yourself? Do you never consult your looking glass} or does that likewise flatter you, when Mankind have forsaken the silly Office no, certainly that must show you your wrinkled Brow, your hollow Eyes and Cheeks, your empty hanging Breasts, that is,
I mean, before you have put your Plumpers on, before you have dawb’d your Face o’er with a thick Plaster of Paint, and fill’d up the gaping Furrows of your Brow, and added the Vermilion, or s^anijb Red, to your Cheeks, in
hopes
t
II
[44]
hopes to betray Some foolish Wanderer to your wither’d Arms. Alas, you labour in vain, poor Creature! the amorous rolling of your Eyes within your concave Brows dart no warming Fires, * but, like a Candle in the Socket, give a stinking Blaze : Notwithstanding all this, no body So frequent in the Park, at the Play, and all the resorts of the young and gay, as Mrs. D — — Prithee, leave off that gaudy frippery dress, it betrays thee into abundance of Error; for while the very Journeymen and Apprentices stare at thee, at thy extravagant and fantastic Ornaments of Body, and, pointing, show thee to one another, thou art So very abundantly vain as to please thy Folly with the monstrous Imagination, that it is thy Charms which have called them to their shop doors, and made them look after thee. Prithee, fond Thing! is it not time for thee to begin to think, to grow Serious and repent of the Sins of So many revolving Years Spent in the Riot of an uninterrupted Lust } Art thou not weary of a lewdness, one Year of which would have tired the mofr Salacious of thy Sex besides?? was but a faint Type of thee, and own’d herself often tired with the Sport; but thou never satisfy’d nor tired, still dost pursue the flying Filthineis with unwearied Endeavours. It is So long since first you Set out in this Scandalous course, that you may with Quanilla the Bawd, in Petronim Arhiury Say, ^umnem meam iratam hahearriy Jl urkfuam me minerem me virginem fuijfe; that is, may Juno he my Foe, if I remember that I ever txsas a Virgin.
You have gain’d this Advantage by what you - have done, that you may Say of yourself what
an
[45]
an old Poet Said of the Greatness of old Rems, Or P.S. in Ur he, the World is in the City. For I dare believe that you have grasp’d within the Circle of your hospitable Arms Men of ali Countries, Religions, Seds and Factions; you made a general Comprehensson, and refused none to come within your Pale, on Account of their Opinion, provided they brought but a Substantial and vigorous Offering: All Degrees, from the Lord to the Footmail, from the parson to the Sexton, from the Alderman to the Cobbler, from the General to the private Sentinel, have found you easy; So that indeed you may be allowed to have been very impartial in the dis f pensation of your Favours, and, like the Sun, to have shined on all, without Regard to the dis tindion of Pershns. But, prithee, now thy Sun of Youth is Set, expect no more Adorers in a Night that affords nothing but unwholsome, and unsavoury Damps, and frousy Vapours that contaminate all that approach it. With what Conscience, with what unmeasurable Assurance canst thou expect the most abandoned to be wicked with thee, when thou Servest in to the criminal Feast, not only a Death's Head, but a putrid carcass that Smells rankly of the Grave? moll Hitnon, when she had pass'd but through' half thy lewdness, weary of the Fatigue, left this wicked Town, retired to a Monastery, and turned Nun. Let me advise thee, even for thy own ' sake, to take the Same course. Who knows but that the brawny Friars, or the fat jolly Monks, may, out of pure Zeal to the Saving of thy Soul, furnish thee with a new Scene of pieasure } for though thou art So stale here, that the very
m
ft
[4i5]
ry Porters and chair men run on the other fide the Way whene’er they See thee coming, * thou wilt be to them a while, at least, a new Face : So have I Seen a Drab, that had pass’d all the Stations and Conditions of Whoredom, get into the play hoiise, and there pass for a fresh Beauty. But I am tired with this odious Theme, for it is in vain to give thee good Ad vice; So that I wish thy Cuckold may retrench thy Allowance So low, that it may only astbrd thee Bread and Water, which perhaps may tame thy insatiate Desires, and bring thee to remember that thou art mortal; which are the hearty and sincere Wishes of
I
Tom. Teltroth.
%
(
[47]
LETTER IV
That everyman makes his own Fortune
A Paradox.
Facit fuam quif^ue Fortunam.
To Mr, wailsull, to be left at will’s
house in Cornhill, London.
Ceujin Will,
Your Letters are always full of your
Complaints of Fortune; I am Sorry it is not in my Power to redress the Injuries she does you : I am afraid you cast your own Dcfedis, and the Evils that flow from your own imprudent Conduct upon her; for it is my Opinion, that few Men are unhappy, but. by their own Fault: You are got into the Mart of the World, where good Fortune is daily purchas’d by the Industrious and Careful. How many have we known in our Time, who, having trudg’d it on Foot to that great City, have arriv’d at great Wealth? How many, from Footmen and Menial Servants, have come to be Men of great Posts and Power? It is impossible to suppose this to be the Work of Chance it must therefore be owing to their Industry and Care, to their Knowledge in improving such Accidents and Opporr
tunities, as offer themselves, to their best Advantage.
i Have
%
k
£48]
Have you confider’d maturely? Have you ex amirsd yourself with that Severity, which Prudence requires, and yet found no Flaw in your Conduct, that should produce the Evils you complain of? Have you always been careful to take Caution for the Guide of your Dealings? Has your Industry still laid hold of those occa fions, which, in their Front, promis’d you Advantage? For poji efl Occafio cala Opportunity has only a Forelock, but is all bald behind; and if it slip by you, as it is generally very Swift, in vain you look after it, in vain you pur sue it with fmitless Wishes, * your Pace will always be too stow to overtake it. No, let it pafs, and be more careful of stopping the next that osters. But if you want Knowledge enough to distinguish what is a real Opportunity of Benefit and Advantage, all your Industry, all your Pains and Labour are utterly thrown away.
Besides this, there are other Conditions which you must observe, if you would thrive in the World, * you must not only'study the Humour, Inclinations, Passions and Interest of ail those you have to do with, but you must learn the happy Art of turning all, and each of them to your own use and Advantage. If this require more Pains and Application than you think they are worth, * if you are so ssothful that you cannot give your whole Thoughts, your Time and! Endeavours to this Duty, and therefore mist your Aim, blame not Fortune, blame your own Supinity, who rather neglect the Means of attaining your End, than quit a laziness that can produce nothing but Misery and Want. There is still another thing necessary to your Conduct; you must wholly - divest yoarsdf of your pac
I
1
[ 49 ]
fioiis j you must know nothing of Pride, Anges, or Revenge, till you have made your Fortune, ■ you must take no Notice of the insolence, neg le<5l or Affronts of those who are above you : Nay, you must not Seem So much as to understand them, but pass on with an unwearied Importunity, till you have vanquish^’d all these petty Difficulties, and are arrivm at Power or Wealth yourself; then you may use all thole' below you in the Same Scurvy Manner in which you have been used: And yet a wise Man, though fix’d at the Top of fortune’s Wheel, will be very cautious of coiifulting his Revenge, or any of the more violent Passions in the Conduct of his Actions, because Power stands on So ticklish a Point, that oftentimes the provoking of the meanest Enemy, may raifc Such a Tempest, that in its Consequence may overturn it. I have known a very great Man, whose Power was thought impregnable, and whom no Injuries nor Affronts could ever provoke to a vissble Anger; not that he forgot the Injury receiv’d, but smooth’d o’er his Passion So, as to give Such Security to the person that had offer’d it, that dis* arm’d him of his Guard against any future Revenge. But when Time and Accidents had con gur’d to present him with the defir’d Minute of his long waited Revenge, he Struck home, and So entirely ruin’d his Opponent, that he never afterwards could hurt him.
The Romans, in their War with the Samnites, were, by the Imprudence of their General, drawn into a Nook, Surrounded with Hills, and there hem’d in by the Enemy. The General of the Sammies Sending to the State to know what he Should do with them, having them ene
tirely
ft
4
[50]
tirely in his Power; they consulted a reverend old Senator, whose Name I have forgot, who advis’d them to cut them all to Pieces. But that Seeming too Severe, he next advis’d them to dismiss them all freely and honourably; for. Said he, if you continue the War, by my first Advice you had cut off So many Enemies; by the Second, you would make them all your Friends, and by that obtain an honourable Peace. But the Sammies took neither of the Advices; on the contrary, they disarm’d the jro man Army, and made them pass every Man in a disgraceful Manner under the Forks, which were call’d Furca Caudina, from the Place. But what was the Event of this? Why, the romansy mad with the disgrace, return’d with fresh Armour, and pursu’d the War with that Vigour, that they subdu’d the Sammies. This Advice that was rejected, affords a useful Lesson to all Men in Power, who, if they ever strike their Enemy, they must be Sure to strike home; or make him their Friend by Some generous Action.,
If none of these Methods please you, there is but one Way that I know ofj to Secure your happiness, and that is, by Setting yourself above Fortune, quitting all the pursuits of her Favours, ' contemning her Benefits, and contenting your self with what you are. And thus every Man may make his own Fortune what he pleases, good or bad. I wish Advice may be as useful to you, as I intend it, which will be no Small Satisfaction to your
Faithful Friendy and loving Kinfmatty
Humphrey W e i g h w e i
%
%
C; i ]
^5
LETTER V
lo^e is a Warfare,
iailitat omhis amansi & habet fua Cajlra Cttpido.
To Samuel Lovemore Esq; at his Chambers
in the Inner Temple, London.
Dear Sam,
YO U Send me Word, that you are mightily fallen in Love; the News is not So agreeable to me, as to give me much Satisfaction, since I confider what Fatigues you must undergo in the pursuit of a proud and Scornful Woman; since, if I mistake not, you are not cut out any more for a Soldier of Cupid, than of Mars, • you are of too lazy a Temper, and love your ease and Quiet too much to achieve any great Matter in either. Have you confider a what it is to be a Lover? Do you know that Love is a perfect Warfare, if you will believe the great Master of Love, Ovid.
Militat omnis amansy & habet fua cafira Cupido' '
once you have declar’d War; that is, as Soon as you have told the Fair One, that you are in Love with her, she puts herself in a Posture of Defence, and entrenches herself round about with Pride, coyness, ill nature, ill humour and Scurvy usage; and you must by your Art or
E a prowess
ft
[JI]
Prowels level all these Intrenchments besofe
»
ver you can pretend to take Possession of the Place. To accomplish which, you mustuse great Diligence, great boldhess, and many Stratagems; for Cunning is as necessary in the Warfare of Love, as the modern Princes have found it to be in their Conquests of Towns and Nations. And the late grand Monarch bwm the Spreading of his Arms more to this than Valour. The chief Part of this Cunning depends upon your Freeness, your eafiness in parting with your Money; for Gold has had a strange Influence on that Sex, ever since the time of Danae. That young lady^s Father knowing how hard a Matter it was to keep his daughter’s Maidenhead, believing that it was not Secured enough by her Virtue, clap’d herup in a brazen Tower under Bolts, and Bars, and Guards, both Male and Female, of old Fellows and antiquated Maids, who being past pleasure themselves, are generally watchful and vigilant enough to hinder the pleasure of other People. But all this was a meet fruitless Precaution, for yeve, who had Seen and lik’d the Girl, knew very well how to come at her; for being So profuse of his Gold, that he was fabled to come down in a Golden Shower, he made all the Brazen Bars and Bolts fly open, and blinded the Eyes of her Guards So far, that he easily pass’d to the Lady, and got upon her a future Hero. Thus you must not Spare your plirse, you must be Sure to bribe Abigail; for the chamber maid is often let into her mistress’s Secrets, which she never fails to betray, provided she be but well paid j for the treacherous Abigaillet you know your Mistreiss weakest lide, by which you may Surprise her; she
will
W
[ J?]
will tell you the lucky Minute when all the pas ses are left unguarded that at other times prove impregnable, I will confirm this Position by one Example out of a thousand, on the Truth of which you may depend. /
Beleaguar was a Gentleman of Devonjjmey of a handsome Estate, and fine Accomplishments both of Mind and person j Fortune had furnish him with all the Means of happiness, had he not fallen iiv Love with cjmdnday for whom his pas fion was So excessive, that all her ill usage, her Coyshesh, and even ill Manners costid not abate it. But finding that he could make no progress in her Heart, he applym himself to Ahigaif whom he Soon won with his Generosity to come entirely into his Interest r she, like a true Chambermaid, inform'’d him that he had a very dangerous Rival, not in any Man, but in the Bottle, for that her mistress every Night got drunk by herself before she went to Bed, fb that if Post Session of her person was what he aim^d at, he need not doubt his Satisfadioii the following Night. Accordingly when her mistress had taken her Sleeping dose, he was let into her Chamber. by the Maid, went to Bed, and found no op pofition. This he repeated Sometimes, taking care always of a generous See for trusty Abigail.

There is certainly a Sort of Witchery ini Love, which holds the Hearts thoroughly pos fesm by it in Such strong Bands, that the .Follies and Vices of the bdov’d are unable to break them. Thus it was with Beleaguar; Cla~ rindas drunkenness, his Possession cf her, her continu’d visible Cruelty to him, all had not the least influence against his Affection, Abigail
E 3 at
Si
9
C 54 ]
at last insorms him that her mistress was with Child, and that she had examin’d her with all the stridness imaginable, whether she had not betray’d her in her unguarded Hours, * but that she had brought her by Protestations and Oaths to a perfect Belief of her Innocence, and to think fomc other had found out the Secret of her Nightly Debauch, and made use of that discovery to gratify their Inclinations. Beleaguar thought this a lucky Opportunity to bring her to marry him, and to make her the more readily comply, he forbore his Visits as if he had given over his Suit; but now Clarindds Belly beginning to Swell to Such a Largenels that she could not well conceal it much longer, she began to wish that she had us’d him with more Mildnels, and So by Marriage have Secured herself against that Shame and Infamy that threaten’d her. Abigail having full Information of her mistress’s good Dilpofition towards him, he renew’d his Visit; in short, they agreed and were privately married, and in due time Clarinda was brought tp Bed of a lovely Boy, who thriv’d and grew up in the Favour of his Father, but Hatred of his Mother. She would every now and then be wishing she knew whose Bastard it was; he always told her, my Dear, trouble not thyself, ’tis mine: Yours, Said she, I mean, I wish I knew who begot it. To put an end to her Vexation in that Particular, after Some Years Marriage he fairly told her the whole Truth, It was in phe Morning before they arose when he made this discovery; she Said nothing to him, but as Soon as he was rid out a hunting. She dressed herself and went away to her father’s, with whom her Husband had been at Enmity for
Some
[ 55 ]
Ibmc time. Clarinda made out her Story So effediually, that, blinded by Revenge, they had the Husband taken up Sora Rape and brought to his Trial, in which, tho’ he came off with Life, he lost his satissadion in a perpetual Separation from his spouse, on which he left the Country, and Spent the rest of his Days in lm don, in a professed Enmity of all woman kind, tor the Sake of Clarinda.
This is enough to show you how necessary it is for a Lover to be in with the Chambermaid. But besides this, you are not to omit all Stratagems that you can think of; you must follow her all Day, and every Day; nay, that won’t be enough, you must not So much as let her steep a Nights, you must quit your Downy Bed, and with Fiddles and Voices charm her from hers; till by haunting her every Way, meeting her at all Places where she goes, you convince her that she is your whole bufiness, and takes up all your Thoughts and Time. My mentioning the Serenading Part, brings into my Head no unpleasant Adventure that happen’d on that Account in my Time.
The young Lord Femmechace had pursu d Ckey a young Coquet and Beauty, and then the Reigning Toast of the Town, for Some time to little purpose. He frequently Serenaded her, and was So troublesome to her, that she left her Lodgings of a Sudden; into which no Sooner was a Jealous old Fellow come with his Wife, but my Lord, not knowing that Cloe was gone, comes with his Fiddlers to give her a Serenade about two a clock in the Morning. The very Tuning of the Fiddles alarm’d the jealousy of the old Husband, and made him quarrel
E 4 with
[ ]
#
with his Wife, for being So abandon’d a Jade to give her Gallants Such early Notice; to avoid which he had mov’d in Such a hurry, that no Body could have discover’d where she was, without her being privy to the Information. All she could Say, and ail her Protestations were to no manner of piirpose; for now the Violins began to Speak aloud, and the Voices were Sounding of the Praise of the charming Chet which put the old Man beyond all Patience; he gets out of Bed, takes up the Jourdan, runs to the Window, opens the Shutters, throws up the Sash, and Sends out his Urine upon my Lord and the Fiddlers. The singing Master stood directly in his Way; who, as he was warbling out his Notes with open Mouth, receiv’d Something in it more unsavory than what he Sent out. You may imagine the Company were a licttle surpris’d at Such a Reception, and mov’d my Lord that they might have leave to break the Windows, • whilst they were debating what to do, the Rain being over, the Thunder follow’d, for from the Same Window a Pistol was discharg’d, which So frighted the crowderd.s, that they immediately run away without regard ro their cremona’s, which in their Flight receiv’d many a Contuston against the Posts in the Dark. But a worse Alisfortune befell ’em, the Watch happen’d to be going their Rounds that Minute, and hearing the noise of the Pistol, and finding thena Scamper at that Rate, seiz’d all they could l^y Hands on to carry them before Mr. Constable, in order to have them committed to the roundhouse, till the Worshipful Air. Justice should be up to hear their cause, and So te acquit or Send thorn to a Safer Durance. In
the
C 57 1
the mean time my Lord, who run not with the Scoundrels, met .with a Friend of his coming from the Tavern, who Soon undeceiv’d his Lordship in his suppos’d Injury receiv’d front Clce, and let him know, that, instead of her, he had address’d his Song and Mustek to the mosh Jealous old Coxcomb in My.lordper
Swades his Friend to go with him to the constable’s Stand, where he found his harmonious Myrmidons endeavouring to pacify the Rage of the Midnight Magistrate i by telling him that they were a Company of Fiddlers hir’d by my Lord Femmechace to Serenade a young Lady near that Place, but that they had been receiv’d, first, with a pisspot, and then with a Pistol, the Sudden Fear of which had put them into that Confuston in which they were taken. Phoo, Mr.
. Constable, Said one of the Watch, they are a Company of rogues and in confederacy with Houlebreakers, to whom they are as necessary, as a ballad stnger to a pickpocket,, * it was but t’other Day, Mr. Constable, when a Band of these Raggamussins were a Serenading as they call it, and wnilst they had drawn all the Family to the fore Windows with their Fiddles, the house breakers got in, and gutted the backstde of the house most neatly therefore, I say, Mr. Constable, send them all to the round liouse. My Lord perceiving by the wife Nods of the Constable, that his Company were in Some danger of Captivity, approach’d the Constable and made himself and his Friend known unto him, by which, and giving the Watch a Crown to drink, phey were all convey’d to the next Tavern.
So
4
[; 8]
So that, my Friend, you must have a care never to be ignorant of your mistress's Lodgings. I expect now every Letter to be filsd with your Complaints of hard usage, of Cruelty, Pride, and the Lord knows what; but those will only make me laugh, they being the usual Companions of Lovers. I wish you either in your mistrefs’s Arms, or firee from her Enchantments; I think ' the latter is the kinder Wish, and therefore ""tis repeated, by Dear Sam
by faithful Friend
• « “
and Servanty
Anthony easelovl
V '.
•. * %
%
%
i
V
C 59]
^''«^ijri wv
W/JF*/; B; M; B; ^
4
LETTER VI
On Poverty.
td.il habet infelix Paupertas durim in A
Quam yuod ridieulos homines facit.
To Richard Vainthought Esq; at his House
near feversham in Kent.
My good Friend,
I just receiv^’d yours of the 15th, having not been two Days in Town. Letters from you are always welcome, * but I am Sorry you know me So ill, as to think you need an Apology for the Company you brought me into the Night before I left you; I mean Jack Eruevoit. You Say he is a poor unfortunate Fellow, that you Sometimes divert yourself with, for want of other Company, but did not know of his coming when you had mine, and a great deal more to this purpose. But, dear Dick, I think you have more cause to make an excuse to me that you did not let me have his Conversation a little Sooner. You say he is very poor; I am Sorry for it, I am Sure he does not deserve to be So, and I wish he had all the Superfluities of the Fools in your Part to make him otherwise, and then you and they would think him a fine Fellow. But is he not the same Man now? is his Wit really the less because his Pockets are empty? if not, why is he not as
agree
%

agreeable Company as if he had all that he wants? But I never form my Opinion of Men by their Appearance, but their sense, and fiauseate a Fool in fine Cioaths, and would Shun his Company with the utmost Cautioh, at the Same time that I would court that of a Man of Wit and Learning in Rags.
I was t’other Day taking a Walk in the Mall, and meeting with a Friend of mine of a great deal of Merit, I took a Turn with him; he happen’d to be but in a very 'mean Dress, and who should we meet but the young Lord ivonv kfs? upon whose comirig up to me, my Friend took his leave and went away. Dear Harry, says my Lord, you are a very pretty Fellow, and dress’s as well as any Man, and are as well re ceiv’d amongst the Ladies; but thou hast a strange unaccountable Whim of picking up odd and. Scandalous Companions, that a fine Gentleman should be asham’d to be Seen with. My Lord, Said I, i’m perfectly to Seek in your lordship’s Meaning, for I believe there is no Man more cautious of avoiding Scandalous corap)any than myself. Ha, ha, ha. Said my Lord, refuse me if thou art not a most incomprehensible person; why what a strange Creature you parted with just now? He is indeed, reply’d I, my Lord, a very strange person, if the uncommonness of a Thing makes it Strange; for he is a Man of extraordinary Sense, fine Literature, and honest, Qiialities not very easily met with in the Same person in this Age, Extraordinary sense, fine Literature, and Ho, es
ty. Said my Lord! hum -- -- it may be So, but
refuse me if he does not make a most ridiculous Figure 7 what the Devil makes him wear Such Scurvy Cigaths? My Lord, because he has no
better.
[ ]
* • • * better, Said I; but I don’t converse with a
man’s Clothes, but himself; if your Lordship don’t like his Clothes, it would be very worthy of your Generoiity to give him better; his
Merit will highly justify your Bounty; and since your Lordship has put me in Mind on’t, I must press you to do Something handsomely for him. Hum - — -- Said my Lord, do for him i hum, hum, honest Harry, refuse me if I can at this Time; for what with Subscribing to opera’s, taking Tickets of the Atstrestes for their Benefits, and other necessary Expenses of this' Kind, I have no loose Money to bestow in Charity; why there’s Mrs. Pert came to me but Yesterday, and got forty Guineas of me for her benefit day. Well, Harry, she’s a charming Creature; what a bosom is there, fit for a God to lie lipoii! My Lord, I allow. Said I, she’s a good pretty Sort of a Woman enough, and has Charms enough for a Lady of her Station; but what are a Thousand Such as she, in comparison of one Man of Merit? Nay, thou say’st right, interrupted my Lord; but here comes the Count with the ugly Face, and I must Speak with him, to know 'uohen the next Ajjemhly •will be. With that he. started from me, and went directly to him; a Man who by his Impudence, and our. Folly, has got Money enough to buy a princi palsty in his own Country. He immediately join’d hiha, tvid. Biter and his Cousin yack, two Fellows stiore Scandalous than the former; but being well dressed, my Lord thought them fit Company to appear in. ycu: k is a Fellow bom to a good Estate, but having thrown it foolishly away, now lives upon Women, and in Such a
Port
[ <sl ]
Port and Equipage as gives him Admission to persons of the first Quality. As for Wid. he Supported himself by downright Gaming, • yet these Scoundrels seem’d not Scandalous Company to his Lordship, tho’ my Friend did. It put me in Mind of what Jmenal Says,
x^il habet infelix faupertas durim in fe
Quam quod ridiculos homines facit.
Unhappy Poverty has nothing more Severe and cruel than its rena ring Men ridiculous i for most Men think but super&ially of Things, and are therefore stricken with the first Appearance of a Man, either in his Favour, or in his Prejudice, and a poor Appearance is Sure with most Men to do the latter. The Rich hear all that Such a one Says with Contempt, if not with Laughter, for they can’t conceive that what a poor Man says shou’d be of any consequence, tho’ Spoke by the Tongue of the finest Orator. Rochefoucault says, That the way to do a Mans Business in the I jvorldy is to persuade the World that it is done already. By a Parity of reason ’tis a Sure way never to do one’s Business, to let the World See that we do really want its Assistance; which is confirm’d by a Vulgar Proverb of ours, Po be Poor and seem Poor, is to be Poor indeed', therefore let our Necessities be what they will, we ought in Prudence to cover ’em and hide ’em from Mens Eyes. those that have let them grow So far upon them, as not to be able to do this even in their dress, are indeed in a most deplorable Condition, and almost without hopes of better Days, without Some strange unforeseen Accident should Surprise
them
C '^3 i.
them with a more agreeable Scene of Life, thar they could otherwise expect; for when a Man is in this Condition, let his Merit be never So great, he will be unable to charm from the Rich any Favour of consequence Sufficient to remove his Misfortunes; for I know not how it comes to pafs, the more a Man wants the less he is Sure to receive, which must always keep him under; while the less a Man wants, the larger is the unequal Bounty of others to him; but as these Faults in the Rich are very visible, and too well known to want any farther Proofi So have Some of the unfortunate their Faults too, which contributes to their Continuance in Want.
Butler the Author of hudibrasy tho’ he was a Man of extraordinary Wit and Fancy, tho’ his Merits deferv’d a much better Fate, is Said to have. starv’d, which Extremity of Poverty was owing to his own Pride and Folly, * his Necessities were too well known to all his Acquaintance, to leave him a Possibility of concealing them from them; and yet his Pride was So intolerable, that it was the most difficult Thing in the World to compel him to accept of any ASSISTANCE, tho’ offefd in the most friendly and genteel Manner in the World. There was a Gentleman of his Acquaintance, and of a confidera ble Fortune, who over a Bottle one Night had made a cleanly Conveyance of a Purse of a hundred Guineas into his Pocket, which he did not at all perceive; the next Morning Butler finding it there was extremely uneasy, and con fider’d what Company he was in the Day before, and found that it could be no Body but the very Gentleman that did it j he dressed himself

S]
t 4
Self and went to his Chambers, and carried with him the Money, chargm him with the Affront, and went away in a pet, leaving the purse behind him.
How could a person in his Circumstances and of his Temper escape the hard Fate of Starving, since he refus’d all the Means that Fortune oster’d him to avoid it? Tho’ few Men in Misfortunes have this unmeasurable Pride, yet many have So much, that it is very prejudicial to their Relief; and this is another ridicuiousnefs of Poverty, quite out of the View of the Poet in the former Quotatioh. It is certain, that Poverty is a great Obstacle in our Pursuits of Fortune,
Hand facile emergunt quorum virtutihm chjiat
Res angufia Domi.
* • t
%
Men Seldom arrive at Prosperity, whose Virtues and Merits have not room to exert themselves within the Bounds of their narrow Fortune, and many a noble and useful Dessgn has miscarried by want of Ability in the proposer. Poverty is indeed an Evil too great to need any Aggrava.. to heighten it, I wish you nor yours may never find it. But let not your present. Prosperity make you overlook Merit in Rags j be not So terrified with this distant Evil, as to make you avoid the persons oppressed with it, provided they are Men of real Desert in themselves. My Service to Irueiuit, and convey a Guinea to him, not as from me, but from yoursejf; I wish it were in my Power to answer his Merits in a more Senfibk Manner. But you know that my
For
9
[ 'Sf ]
Fortune can but just Suffice to Support me as a Gentleman. I am
Tour loving Friend.
Harry Hearty.
POSTSCRIPT.
It was an ill natur’d Ressedtion of the witty Lord Rochefier (as he was callm) in one of his Letters, That a poor Fellow made but a poor Friend. Nor is it in reality true, for there may be a great many ways of proving a Man to be a very good Friend, though he be not able to lend his Friend Money. Friendship indeed does require a sort of Equality in the persons engag’d in it; but this is not always confiffd to their Equality in Wealth, provided the bauance be kept even by any other Means. Arifiides^ calpd the Just, of Athens was a Man of a very low and penurious Fortune, So far, that it was thought he wanted even Necessaries; he had expressed a great Friendship for cauias, who, by the Favours done him by Arifiides during his Execution of Several Posts of State, had lieapt together considerable Riches. The Athenians finding Arifiides So poor, publicly accus’d Callias as false to his Friendship, in letting Such a Friend want whilst he abounded i and he had certainly been conf
demn’d,,
[d]
demn’d, had not Arifiidet come into the Court and assur’d the Judges that cauias was not in fault, for that he had frequently press: him to accept a share in his Fortune, which he always refus’d to do, that the Athenians might not think the Favours he had done his Friend were for his own sake. This Instance shows us, that in Athens Poverty was no Hindrance to Virtue, since that Great Man past thro’ all the most considerable Posts of State in the midst of it. But whatever it was in Athens in our Time it has a quite contrary Esseft; for now Men are chosen into Posts by their Wealth, not Virtue or Knowledge.
A
9
%
>
«?
9
^ I
I
'n ✓ ^ .1
%
t^7l
i
LETTER VIE
Lhe false Zealot
9
«
lant^ne Anifnis coeteflibm irjel
i ^ \ f
To Mrn Teazeall near the Abbey in West
minster.
Madamy
TH O’ I did not' think of troiibling myself
with ever Writing to you; yet upon the Arrival of your Nephew, and on his Account, and the barbarous usage he met With from you, I shall attempt for once to wash the Ethiop white; for I am sensible it is but to little pur pose to talk reason to a Woman that is wholly a Slave to her Passions, especially the Passions of Anger and Revenge. But when I confider the great Pretensions you make to Religion, ydut mighty noisy Zeal for the Church, I would conclude that you were a Christian, and that therefore I might have Some Hopes tp bring mj^ Arguments to bear. Your Quarrel With your Nephew, if I am rightly inform’d of the Matter, is thus: He in his Cups one Night was pleas’d to say that you were not handsome, or to that purpose, and that he wonder’d by what Witchery you held his'ljncie’s Heart with So despotick a Power, * and this, Something magnified by the
F 2 mali
c«n
malicious Representation of a chamber maid, has made you his irreconcilable Enemy. You " cannot deny but that upon the accusation he heartily disavow^’d his Knowledge of any Such thing, but that if his Drink had really betray’d him into Such Words, they were entirely different from his Sober Thoughts, and ask’d your Pardon with the utmost Submission. This would have been enough to have pacified one of the Wicked, however it has fail’d with a Lady So religious as yourself. But mistake not, Madam, it is not your going to the Abbey twice a day to Prayers, it is not your clamorous Invedives against all those that deviate in the least from your Opinion, that make a Person truly religious, at least that make a Persona true Christian; the Doctrines of Christianity are of much another Tenor, they are all Love, for givenefs, long Sussering, Patience ^ there is no room for Anger and Revenge, those you renounce in your baptismal Vow. i’m afraid. Madam, you are a downright Atheist; for how is it possible you should believe in God and }e sus Christ, and dare to Say, forgive m our Lref pajfes vce forgive them that freffafs againji
as often over as it is daily repeated in the Offices of the Church, and at the Same time make your Husband turn out of Doors the nearest Relation he has in the World, without any Means of Support, either to Starve or take 111 courfes, merely out of Revenge for Such a Peccadillo, as the not admiring your Beauty, and to refuse all Manner of Acknowledgment and Submission that he can poshbly make you? But I am preaching to the Winds, not expecting to move you in the least; for since you fear God So
little
[<«9]
little as to dare his Vengeance, and are no more touch’d with the Precepts of the gospel, I can expect: no happy Event of my Endeavours, I intend therefore very Speedily to come to Town; and if I prevail not with your Husband in your nephew’s behallj I will at least have the satis fadion in pulling off your Vizor, and show to all your Acquaintance how little you deserve what you So much endeavour to obtain; I mean the Name of a godiy and religious Woman. So I bid you adieu
Joshua Weldon.
dinwilv. .^spiiiijilz'
♦
[ 70 ] ^
I
LETTER VIII
I
On the Love of our Country
Vincit Amor Patriot— —
qua Natak Solum Dulcedine cunslos
Mulceti dr Immemores non Jinit ejfe fui.
\
t
To John Modernal Esq; to he left at manv
Coffee houfey charing cross.
s
S I R,
T AM very glad to hear by yours of the
1 15 th, that you are got into a very noble
Post in the Government, and I donst question but that you will behave yourself So well in it, that you’ll convince all Men you perfeduy well deserv’d it. You have impos’d a Task upon me, which I cannot So well discharge, as the Importance of it, in my Opinion, requires; because I am here in the Country entirely without Books, and hothing but a very bad Memory to Supply me with those Instances, which Seem necessary on this Occasion; however, I shall endeavour to dp the best I can.
You Say you have heard a mighty Talk of your Country, and of the Duty and Love which v^very Man owes it, especially those who are in ny Post of Trust or Power. I am pleas’d with this Inquiry of yours, because it Seems to have
Some
L 71 ]
Some Concern agreeable to the Sentiments of a patriot. Yes, Sir, it is most certain, that there is a Duty and Love due to your Country, that is, to the political Society of which you are a Member. Tis true, in these modern Times, this is what is very little known, and much less thought on j every one now views the Public as a Property, a Dupe of which he is to make the most he can, without regard to the Interest, or, even. Safety of the Public; not but that we frequently hear a mighty noise about the public Good, and have loud Clamours against the maladministration of the Men in Power. But this is generally made by those who are out of Place, only to get in, that they may do worse than even those who went before them, • and prove that the public Interest is the least thing in question; and that all the Struggle is who shall bubble the Nation. And this, in reality, is the ground of all our political Quarrels : This is the true Rise of those raging Parties of Whig and Tory, which has brought So long a Distraction upon us i and I may Say, that all the Alterations that have been made in the persons who have postess’d our Offices of Trust and Power, has only been to shift Hands, and not to get rid of the Evil: All this noise and Bustle,
1 Say, is not to deliver us from being rid at all, but who shall ride us, whether Asses or Foxes; the Asses Seem the heavier Burden; and they Say that a horse tyres Sooner under an ill Rider ' than under a good one.
There was another Spirit among the ancient. ■greeks and Komans, they had another Notion of the Love of their Country; it was a Point of their Religion to Serve it without private Prof
4 fpeds:
C 7^ ]
Spedls : Thus luuy Says, Omnibus fui Patriam
confervaverint, ju'verint^ auxerint, certm efi in ccclo & definitm locus, ubi fempiterno gaudio perfruuntur beatii that is, ihere is in Heaven a certain and fix’d Place vchere all these who have either prefervdy help’d or enlargd their Countryy enjoy eternal happi nefs. Thus they made eternal happiness the Reward of being a good Patriot i and, indeed, upon very good Grounds, upon Sovereign Reason,, • since humane Society is the evident Institution of Heaven itself. it Seems a natural consequence, that those who contribute most to the Good and Benefit of that, have the best Claim to the Favour of Heaven; and as humane Society in general is divided into Several particular Societies, and that each particular has its proper Interest to pursue, distinct from that of the general, and incompatible with Several of those which make up that General, * it necessarily follows, that the Duty of Particulars to Society is bounded by the Good of that Society, of which each is a Member, and without which particular Societies could not
Subfish
I remember that there is, in the Fragments of the divine euapidesy a Saying to this purpose, That he who praises the Manners of another Countryy has in that betray’d his own: And this Saying is grounded on the very Nature of Things s for we cannot praise the Manner of another Country, without thinking them better than those of our own, • and when we once give that Preference, we are easily drawn in to espouse the Interest of that Country against our own, as of less Value and Esteem in our own Opinions.
But
C 73 ]
But to produce this Love of our Country, it is necessary that the Constitution of this Country, by being valuable, should deserve this Love; that is, it should be calculated So evidently for the Good and happiness of those who constitute this Society, that not to defend it, would be to at against that happiness which all Mankind desire. Humane Nature covets Liberty, and where that is establish’d, it will be defended by every Member, as long as they think justly. But Liberty, you’ll Say, is a Word of a dubious Signification: What therefore I mean by Liberty, is that the Society be govern’d by Laws, made by the consent of every Particular, either in himself or in his Representative, and not by the arbitrary Will of any one Man, which never can have, or, at least, never had a due and just Regard to the Good and happiness of the People.
It always has been in States constituted in this Manner, where this Love I Speak of has been eminent, and So Sacred, that very few have ever dared to go against it, tho’ under never So, uneasy Circumstances and Sufferings from it. Thus when Phemiflodes was banish’d Athens by Ofiracifmy for no other Crime than his Popularity, he fled into Persia, and was receiv’d very favourably by the Great King, and the Revenue of three Cities allotted him for his Maintenance; and So an Opportunity was offer’d him of revenging his disgrace upon his Country. For the Great King having a Mind once more to try the Power of Persia against the petty State of Athensy which had hitherto still worsted his Armies i he declar’d Lhemijlodes his General, under whose Conduct he did not doubt of better
success j
[74]
Success; but that brave Hero, unable to refiise the Command, rather chose to poison himself, than lead an Enemy against his Country.
This Love of our Country and Liberty was sh Settled and Sacred a Principle amongst the Grecians, that they establish’d public Rewards for any Man that should kill a Tyrant: Thus we find m. Lucian a Contest betwixt two who pretended to this Reward.
Among a thousand Instances of eminent Grecians, whom History has recorded as wonderful Patriots, I think there is Scarce one more remarkable and touching than that of Pimoleon. His Brother had usurp’d the Sovereignty of Corinth; Pirnoleon had a true Brotherly Love for him; yet he not only endeavour’d to hinder him from this Usurpation, but often per suaded him to restore the Liberty of his Country, to no purpose; However, he gave this signal Proof of his natural kindness for his Brother, that he brought him off when overpower’d by his Enemies in Battle, even with the Hazard of his own Life. But yet, as dear as his Brother was to him, the Liberty of his Country was much dearer; and therefore he headed a Conspiracy to redeem its Freedom with the Loss of his brother’s Life, he being in the Room while the rest dispatch’d him, and which was not forgiven him by his own Mother, and the rest of the Females of his Family, as long as he liv’d. He pafs’d twenty Years after this before he was taken notice of by the State; but then Agents coming from Syracufa, to Solicit the Corinthians to send Forces into Sicily, to deliver them from the Tyranny of Dionyjim, they rais’d three Thousand Men, and Sent
Pimoleoft,
s
[75]
tiniojeou to command them. He arrives in Sicily and Sets the Syracujtans free; and, to prevent any future Usurpation, utterly destroys the Citadel which commanded the City, and was always the Seat of the Tyrant, and kept the City in awe. But the Benefits that Syractifa had receiv’d from him, and the general Love of the People for those Benefits, were not Sufficient to Secure him from the malicious and envious Assaults of two turbulent Fellows of that City, who abiifing the Liberty he had given them, brought a public accusation against him. The People of Syracufa were So enrag’d at their Impudence, that they would have destroy’d them, had iyoilimoleon himself interpos’d. ivb, Gentlemen., Said he, let them proceed in this legal Manner; for this have I sought, that no Man should be too great to be accused. I "will answer their Accusation, and if I clear not myself to the People of this City of the Crimes they lay to my Charge, let me undergo the Penalty of the Law, In short, he was heard, and came off with applause. This shows the Benefit of Liberty, where all Men are liable to the Law, and no one exempted from Justice.
There is another Instance among the Romans, where the Power of natural Astedion was too weak to combat with the Love of the Country; and that was in Lucim f unim Brutus, ytiho, to fix the Liberty of Rome, put to death, two of his own. Sons, and Several of his near Relations. I shall not mention Virginias s stabbing of his Daughter, by which he put an End to the tyranny of the Decemviri; since that Action may Seem to proceed from another Cause, than the immediate Service of his Country, which was to Save his Daughter from being vitiated
C]
by Appiusy one of the Ten, who out of Lust had brought false Evidence to Swear that Virginia was his Slave, and not the Daughter of virgi nius. This, indeed, was the Cause that the Romans threw off the Tyrannous Government of the Decemviri, and restor’d the Confuh. What shall I say of Fahricius, who refused the Gold of Pyrrhus, because he would not touch a Present from an Enemy, tho’ nothing was requir’d on his Part but to accept it?
Curtins Sacrificed himself for the Good of Rome, where a great chasm happening to open in the Earth, whence issued unwholesome Vapour he jump’d into st alive to make it close again, as the Oracle had promis’d. It would be endless to run over all the Instances of this kind, that the Rjoman History affords us before the Corruption of Rome, by the conquests and Effeminacy of Afta. I shall content myself only with that of Regulus, whole Heroic Constancy is prais’d by Horace, in one of his Odes. The fast was thus: Regulus, in the Carthaginian War, was taken Prisoner, and carry’d to Carthage', that State grew uneasy by the War with the Romans, and therefore Sent Regulus to Rome on his Parole, to return again to Carthage, provided he could not prevail with the Roman People to make Peace: When he came to Rome, he was So far from perfiiading them to Peace, that he exhorted them to continue the War, since the State of their Enemies Affairs was So desperate, that they had no way of Securing it, and putting a Stop to the progress of the Roman Arms, but by a Peace. Having esteded his Desire he return’d to Carthage, contrary to the earnest Importunities of his Friends, and was there put
to
s[
[ ]
to a very torturing Death, being inclos’d in a Barrel driven full of Nails, or Iron Spikes, and So roll’d down a Hill, which Cruelty the Romans afterwards Sufficiently reveng’d, by the Destruction of their City.
These are enough to give you a Taste of that Love of their Country which the Ancients had, and which is So different from our general Notion of Things at this time a day, that it sounds like Romance. To attempt anything for the Service of your Country, tho’ in the Discovery of the most flagrant Corruptions of any Offices, is call’d a Don Quixotifm, and laugh’d at as ridiculous; and it is certain, no one ever yet endeavour’d to discover the abuses of the vibualling Office, Navy Off ce, Cufiom House, and the rest, but met with Ruin for his Reward however, let me recommend to you this old antiquated Virtue, the Love of your Country; let not your Hand be imbrued in its Blood; nor do you join to hasten that Ruin which Seems to come with too great a Speed without you.
Thus I have given you an extempore answer to the Question you propos’d; if I have hit your Meaning, I am satisfy’d; if not, upon better Instrudions, I shall endeavour to amend my Defects, who am.
Dear Sir,
Tour faithful
/
t
humble Servant,
9
Will Antiqve.
^ V.
I
t 78 ]
f.
POSTSCRIPT.
\
1 have a Word or two to add by way of postscript. It is a melancholy Consideration, to refled at how low an Ebb a Ptiblick Spirit is at this Time, when every one is wsholly em ploym in the pursuit of Some private End, most commonly very opposite to the Public Good. But yet I believe we have no more caii/e to be Melancholy than the rest of our Neighbours, and all Times Since the loss of the ro?nan Liberty. It must be confessed, for indeed it cannot be deny’d, that all those noble Examples hinted at III my Letter, were only to be found in Commonwealths, they Ipringing naturally from that sort of Government; and the reason Seems pretty plain, allowing that the best Actions Spring from Self-interest or Self-love, rightly understood. The Members of a Commonwealth have no way to drive on their own particular Interest, no Way to arrive at Power, but by their Court to the People, * nor have they any way of making that Court, but by great and. popular Actions, from whence the Good of the Public must necessarily follow': But in all Monarchies, the dispensation of Power and Wealth is in the Prince; and therefore those who aim at either, have nothing more to confider, than how to gain his Favour; and that is most generally obtain’d, not by Virtue and Actions beneficial to the Public, but by a fine address in Flattering his Vices, and being Some w' ay or other useful to them. This has produc’d a
Maxim in Religion, quite contrary to that
quoted
t 79 ]
quoted from ov^ro, which is to make the Will of a Prince a Sovereign Principle in Religion itself, a Doctrine that naturally destroys all Thoughts and Aims at anything Great and Glorious. And yet it is not all Commonwealths that produce these Wonders: Venice may be call’d a Commonwealth, because an Aristocracy; but I cannot remember any extraordinary Hero's that City has given the World. No, it is only those Commonwealths that have a pretty large Mixture of a Democracy in them, as those of Greece and Rome; and as a Confirmation of this Opinion, we may observe, that neither Greece nor Rome ever produc’d one Man truly great, a
perfect Lover of his Country, after the loss of their Liberties.
V, 4. AN

♦
I
i
• *.
• /•
0
/'
9
ti
[ 8o ]
$
i
\ _. _ _ _
DESCRIPTION
OF
NEW ATHENS
IN
Terr a Australis incognita.
%
By one who resided many Years upon the Spot.
LETTER I.
. sill convenientia singe.
To J~ H -- Esq, at his House near
Holborn, London.
«
Dear Sir,
□N my former I gave you an Account
of our Ship's being cast away on the Southern Coast, without the loss of any one Man, or much of its Cargo; I let you know the Hardships we underwent in
an
[8i]
an uninhabited Country, and how, endeavouring to make discoveries in burr Long Boat, we Sell into the Hands of a very hospitable People. I gave you also an Account of the Several Cities, the Manners and Customs, through which we pass’d, and which were not very different from our own; the People being actuated by the Same Passions of Avarice, Envy and Malice, which are So common in Europe, divided by the Same Factions and Parties, both in Politics and Religion; and this, till we arriv’d at the Foot of vast unpaffablc Mountains, which Nature Seems to have made as the Barrier betwixt these wretched People, and those happy Men who inhabit the other Side of it. You must observe, that all those on this Side the Mountain were originally Exiles banish’d from the other Side for Crimes which would not be suffer’d among them j Such as Avarice, Ingratitude, unchristian Dealing, Lust, and the like; and they are still the Receptacle of all those who are punish’d for Such Offences on the other Side the Mountain, and have Governors in every City Sent from them. This was the Substance of my last Letter. Being come to the Foot of these Mountains, which rim from Northeast to Southwest, near fifteen hundred Miles, v/e were ordered to get ready to pass them; which we did in this very strange Manner : The Place of our Passage was almost a perpendicular Precipice, * we enter’d into a Sort of a Room or great Coach, which held about fourteen. There when we were Seated, with Such things as were necessary for us in our Passage, and the little Baggage that each of us had brought with us, we were drawn up by Pussies about threescore Yards to the first land
G ing
[il
Ing Place, which was done by a hollow Wheel, Slaves turning it by walking in it like Turn spits at Enfiol. Being come to'the first landing Place, our Machine was immediately thrust forward into another Fully, and we drawn threescore Yards higher to the next landing Place, and So on, tilstwe came near the Summit of the Mountain; when we left our Machine, and came into a very large fair Plain, from whence we surveym a most delicious Country, diverfi fym with easy Hills, pleasant Valleys, winding Rivers, Small Seas, Istands, Towns, Cities and Villages. Two, among the rest, were evidently remarkable for their largeness j one seem’d to stand in the Sea, which, I was told, was called Athens; the other upon the Continent, much larger than the former, upon a very fine River at a little Distance from the Sea; and this was called Romana the Imperial City or Capital of all this Place that we Saw; and was full of shining Domes and Spires, which almost'dazled our Eyes at that Distance. About this pleasant Plain, upon the Mountain, were scatter’d Several houses of Entertainment, fit to receive, with all Manner of Convenience, Such Passengers as were permitted to come that Way : In the midst was a Spacious Hall, or Court of Judicature, where proper Judges were assign’d to examine every particular person. But before we came to our Examination, we were ordered to refresh ourselves, and wait the Arrival of the rest of our ship’s Crew, who were all brought up by the next Return of the Machine; and who having likewise refresh’d themselves, we were all brought into the Hall, and each man’s Baggage Set by him, which, as well as ourselves, were
examin’d.
examinm. Mine consisted chiefly of Books, par“ “Poets, Such as Ben ^ohnjon., Shakeffenr, Beaumont and Fletcher, Milton, and many of. the Classics, both Greek and Latin. I thought I dis coverm a particular Satisfaction in the Judge at what he Saw; and calling me to him, he told me, that he was pleasm that Fortune had given him an Opportunity of obliging the curious thenians, by lending them a Person that seem’d So agreeable to their Inclinations, and to oblige me by allotting me an Abode in the most Learned and Polite City in the World : For tho’ he did not understand great Part of my Books, they being in a strange Language \ yet by those that he Saw in Greek and Latin, he concluded me worthy of the Favour he defign’d me. This Speech he made to me in tolerable i^tin, though often mix’d with Words that nothing but the sense of what he Said, could make me understand. The Examination of the rest of our Crew took up Some time, and I was fain to play the Interpreter with that little Latin I had, to expedite their dispatch; but this being at last all over, there came in an Officer, who mark’d every one of us in the Face with a most lovely and beautiful Flower, which was So far from being a Mark of Infamy, that it was our Security and Honour i for by that every one was oblig’d, wherever we came, to receive and life us with respedf and hospitality: But another use of this Mark was to hinder us from ever going out of their Country, left by the Discovery we had made, we Snould bring others to invade it. All the Governors therefore of the Frontiers had expressorders to let no one pass who had that Mark, which was made with So
G 2 Subtle
[?4]
Subtle a Juice, that no Pains or Wash coffd ever
remove it.
Now the Time was come when we were to be Separated, and every one Sent to Such Town or City as the Judge thought was proper for his Inclinations and Capacity. of all our Crew, I had but one that was permitted to go with me to Athens., and he was an extraordinary Mathematician, and very expert in making Draughts necessary for the forming of Maps. We were allowm Some time for our taking Leave of each, other } which Ceremony being over, I and my Companion being phon’d with one of the Country, in a little Coach, or Sort of Chaise, Set forward in the following Manner.
The Declivity of the Mountain, on the other Side, is not near So steep as that by which we came into the Plain, and yet it is more steep than any Piill I ever pass’d in my Life; tho’ I have gone down the Alps into Piedmont. Tho’ this Passage be very Swift, yet it is likewise very Secure; the Road is no broader than just to contain the Vehicle into which you are put; which being plac’d in two Groofs, runs down with great Rapidity to the Foot of the Hill. Parallel to this Road there is another, by which People ascend to the Plain; for they never ascend and descend by the same Road, and therefore are never in Danger of falling foul upon one another. Being come dowm the Hill, at an Inn at the Foot of it, we were furnish’d with another Chariot that brought us in a few Hours to a pretty seaport, where having refresh’d ourselves for three or four Days, we rook Shipping and fail’d directly to Athens, and the Wind being fair, we arriv’d there in about eleven or tw’’dve Hours.
This
*
[ 85 ]
This City stands upon a Small Peninsula, the broadest Part of which is not above Sour Miles over; and it is considerably rais’d above the Sea, and fortify’d by Nature with a Ridge of little Hills from the very Continent to the End of the Pemnfula, which is near four and twenty Miles. these little Hills have, by an incredible Application and Labour, for ten Miles together, been work’d into a Sort of a Wall, broad enough for three or four Coaches to go on abreast, and all planted with Rows of shady Trees, which Supply the Citizens with a Defence, as well as the most agreeable Prominade in the World. The City is about eight Miles long, and near four over, and is divided into four Parts by four Canals, which pass from the Sea through it, to the little Creek of the Sea that divides the pen infula from the Continent for above twenty Miles, and is about a Mile and half over, and makes a most commodious and Safe Harbour for all their Shipping.
Every one of these Canals is about fifty Yards in Breadth, and So far from the Surface of the Streets, that the Sides are fill’d with convenient and capacious store holises, where all the Goods and Merchandise brought in by the Shipping, are placed without encumbering the Streets with heavy Carriages; and hence they are brought up by Cranes, and dispers’d as Occasion requires. Over these Canals there are Several Bridges, all of one Arch, tho’ So very wide, that the Rialto of Venice is but a Bauble to them. The Town is built of a curious white Stone, and with perfeci Regularity; the Streets being in an pxadl Line from one End of the City to the o
G 3 there.
[t]
tiler. In the Centre of the City stands a most noble Pajtondo, which may be call’d its Cathedral, or Episcopal Church; besides which, there are ten magnificent Churches in each Division of the City, which makes the whole Number one and forty : Each of these Churches stands in the middle of a Square, and has a Coridore Supported by fine Pillars, in which the Congregation take a Walk, and pass through them to the Church. All the great Streets are fill’d with the magnificent elouses of the principal Citizens, the Cclleges and Schools of the Students, and Halls of Judicature j all the Shops and Places of Trade are in the lesser Streets; but those lesser Streets are of a greater Width than Cheapjide. One thing is remarkable. That there is no Trade that is ostenfive to the nose, the Eyes or Ears, that is permitted to be in the City itself: Thus Butchers, Poulterers, Smiths, washer women, and the like, are confin’d to little Suburbs divided from the City by a Small Canal, • whose Streets are every Morning wash’d by Waters from certain Engines, which throw a Stream through every Street, that carries off all the Filth that Such Trades produce. There is nothing finer than the High street, which, for eight Miles together, leads you up to the Royal Palace, a most magnificent Pile, and worthy So Noble a City. The Gardens and Walks belonging to this Palace, are contriv’4 both for pleasure and use; for at the same time that the River, which runs from the Continent over the Neck of Land that joins the Peninsula to it, is divided into an hundred Channels to Supply phe waterworks; it is thence convey’d into the
City,
Y
C 87:
City, to furnish fresh Water to all the Inhabitants. The Palace is not only for the Residence of the King, but the Reception of the areopa gm, or Chief Council of the Nation, and to lodge all Such Ambassadors as come from Friends; thole who come from the barbarous Nations in the most Southerly Parts of that Tract of Land, are never permitted to lie in the City, but rather forcm to remain aboard their own Ships, or to be a Sort of prisoners, during their Negotiations, in the Citadel, which stands upon the Ijlh
tnus.
Thus I have given you a short description of the City of Nevo Athens itself, which, tho’ wonderful in all its Parts, is far less valuable for its Structure, than for the Excellence of its Inhabitants; of which I shall treat in the following Part of my Letter, having first inform'’d you of my Reception at my Arrival.
We were no sooner landed, but we were conducted to the hospital of Strangers, a Pile of Buildiiig equally admirable for its Magnificence and Convenience. There are no Inns in this City for the Reception of Strangers, they are always the Care of the Public, and are provided all Necessaries and Conveniences by Officers, who are answerable for any Indignity or abuse to any Stranger, either in his Lodging or Diet, which are Supplied by the Government at the most easy Rate; but then no one is permitted to stay in this hospital longer than a Fortnight : So that if their bufiness require a longer time, they provide themselves with Lodgings in the Houses of Some of their Friends or Acquaintance. To this Place nay Friend and I were conducted, with all our Baggage, where
G 4 we
I 88]
we remain’d till the King had receiv’d the Letters Sent with us, and ordered Such to attend us as he thought most fit and capable of giving him ^ Sail Account of our Merits and Abilities. Every Morning we were invited to go to Church, and oster up our Prayers after our own Way; for that is a Duty which no one of this City of what Degree, Age or Station Soever, is permitted to neglect, unless hinder’d by sickness.
The first bufiness that we were Set about, was to learn their Language; to the obtaining a Mastery in which, my little Skill in the Greek was no Small Help; for tho’ their Tongue be very much alter’d from the ancient Greek, yet it retains not only the Character, but many of the Radical Words of the Attic Dialled!:. The Care of my Instrudlor, wdth my own Diligence and Application, made me Such a Proficient, that I could, in two Months time, talk it almost as well as a Native; and in two Months more, was able' to translate anything out of Englifi into it. But I have forgot to tell you, that as Soon as I had Instrudlors ordered me by the King, I was remov’d from the hospital of the Strangers, into a very pleasant Apartment in the College of the Muses, where I enjoy’d all things that were any ways necessary to make my Life easy and pleasant; and as I grew a greater master of their Language, my pleasure was heighten’d by the Conversation of the most Polite, as well as the most Humane of all Mankind; and which confirm’d me in a Mastery of their Tongue Sooner than I could else have accomplish’d it: They omitted no Means of rendering their Instrudfions agreeable, as well as useful, lyatching my Inclinations and Humour with that
Care
[ 89 ]
Care and Nicety, that they would be Sure never to make my Lessons tedious or burthensome. But now I was to give Some Proof of my Study, by tranliating Some of our English Poets into their Language : I chose the Samson Agonifies of Milton to begin with, as finding his Way of Writing in that, more like their Tragedies than any other of our English Poets. They were So pleas’d with this Performance, that it wasshew’d to the King, who was a Prince of an admirable Genius himself, and ordered me, upon it, to be .admitted into the Number of the Athenian poetsy with a handsome Pension for my Maintenance;
m ^
and Directions were given for the transcribing and acting the Tragedy of Samson agonifiesy as Soon as the Choruses could be fet to Mustek, the Actors taught, and the Copy publish’d; for it is a Custom here, that no Play is to be acted, till it is publish’d, and in every body’s Hand, * that having perus’d it with sedateness and Judgement in their Closets, they should not be brib’d by the Beauty of Representation, to give an erroneous Judgement of the poet’s Performance; but I found' by the tediousness of the Publication, that how ingenious soever they were, they knew nothing of thb Art of Printing. I persuaded myself I could not oblige them more, than by giving them what Infight I could into this Invention : Nor was I mistaken, for they heard me with Rapture; and having acquainted the King with it, I was ordered to difeourse the Matter at an Assembly of the Vivmofty where the King himself presided. In order to make my discourse ^ clearer, I got Several Letters made after ray own Model, and a Compofing stick according po my Piredlions, and with their Help, made the
Matter
[90]
Matter So plain, that the King ordered me to sit down at the Board, and, with his own Hands, plac’d on my Head ^ Wreath of Golden Laurel, with this Assurance, That I should always have his Protection.
’tis an amazing thing to think with how much 'Speed they arriv’d at a Perfection in it, • for they now print with much more correctness and Delicacy than any Part of Europe.
I was not alone in the Favours I receiv’d from the Nevj Athenians, my Comrade had his Share; he was a Man of admirable Parts, tho’ he had found but little Encouragement in England; he was a very good Mathematician, and had a great Genius for Building of Ships, and was accordingly received by the Intendant of the Marines, and had his Apartment allotted him in the College of the Admiralty. The Naval Force of these Countries consists in a Sort of low built galleys and Galliots, * for, knowing nothing of the use of Guns, those were thought Sufficient to cope with the barbarous Nations, who liv’cl near the Southern Pole, and with whom only they ever had any Wars.
My Comrade first made them a Model of one of our Men of War, with which they were So well pleased, that they ordered Several to be built according to it. In the mean time my Comrade, to make his Service the more complete, discoursed with them about the use of Guns and Gunponuder; but it being a difficult Matter to make them apprehend what he meant, without an Experiment, the Materials for the Composition of Gunpowder being pretty plentiful in that Country, and he being perfectly well skill’d in the making of it, it was not long e’er
he
[ 9' ]
he had a Sufficient Quantity to show them the wondersul Force of it. They were the more pleased with this Invention, because there happened then to be a discourse of a new Invasion from the barbarous Natives, who are a hardy martial People, and delight in War.
By that time the Ships were built, my Comrade had got a pretty Quantity of Gunpowder, and great Guns enough to equip his new Armour da, and likewise to plant Several upon the Walls of the City, on that fide which was next to the Sea. But the King, that he might not give any Umbrage to the great Emperor of Romana, dis patched Ambassadors to him to let him laiow the wonderful discoveries this Stranger had made, with Assurances of Sending him to him, whenever he should command, that he might not want those Advantages against the common Enemy, which Seemed of that Importance to the public .Safety.
But before any Answer could come to this Embassy, the Barbarians, without ever declaring any War, had fill’d thoseseas with their Ships, which made up, by their Number, that Terror, which their Bulk could not give, * they were about three hundred Sail, and made directly for Vfeio Athens, to the great Terror of that City. But my Comrade, in the midst of this Consternation, undertook to fight and disperse all this Barbarian Armada with only the Ships that he had built, and five Hulks of old Vessels, of which he had made fire ships, a thing unknown in that Country before. I think the Number of pur Fleet, besides the fire ships, was but Seven, the biggest of which came not up to our Third Rates; With these my Comrade sailed out of
h. » 'I ■... ' c
the
f
C 9^ ]
the Port, and went to meet the Enemy, who being flush’d wdth the siiccess of their Sudden Irruption, came up with us, and Soon Surrounded our little Fleet, but were Something surpriz’d at the largeness of their Make. We Soon Set our Fire ships among them, which they Surrounded and grappled with great Expedition, sh far, that they could not disengage themselves, when they found them all on Fire, which put them into a very great Confusion;; this was very much encreas’d when we began to give them broad ssdes, which Soon put ’em to flight, thinking that the Gods themselves were come down in Thunder to punish their Treachery.
In short, we took. Sunk and dispers’d the whole Fleet, Scarce twenty of which got home to their own Country, to the no Small satif faction of our Athenian Masters, who were too generous and grateful, not to give a Reward to the Conqueror equal to his Merits : He was immediately made free of that Nation, had a public Triumph, and was presented with Royal Gifts, being admitted to the king’s own Table, who immediately ordered him to prepare to go with the greater Part of his new Fleet to Romana and sent Deputies with him to present him to the Emperor, and give an Account of all that had pass’d, and the great Deliverance the whole Chrifiian Commonwealth in those Parts had receiv’d from him.
It is out of my way to give an Account of the noble Reception he met with, and the Honours that were paid him on his Arrival at Romana j it is Sufficient to let you know that he was treated like a Sovereign Prince, and a particular Instrument Sent by Heaven to check the
insolence
[ 95 ]
insolence of the Barbarians, who by their frequent Irruptions disturbhi that Tranquillity which all those Nations otherwise enjoy’d, • for you must understand, that all the Countries for above fifteen hundred Miles every way are Christians, and tho’ confiiiin^ of Several go vernments, they all hold it an unpardonable Crime for one Christian State to make War with another; to avoid which, there is a general Council compos’d of Deputies from the Several Nations, who hear and amicably decide all Disputes that may arise betwixt Nation and Nation. This Overthrow of the Barbarians gave long Peace to this Country, during which my Comrade furnish’d Romana and all its Dependencies with Arms according to the Manner of Europe and liv’d in great Splendour and Reputation, in which I shall leave him, to return to my Account of Athens.
I told you of my Transsation of Miltons Sam -- fon agonijtesj which being now ready to be acted, it was perform’d at four Theatres in one Day; for you must know, every Quarter of Athens has a Theatre for the Representation of Tragedies, in which. Some Tragedy or other is perform’d every Night, * besides which there is a fifth Theatre in the Royal Palace, which is only made use of for the Entertainment of Foreign Princes when they come to that City, as they do once a Year from all Parrs of that Coni, tinent, of which Number, the Emperor of Romana is always one. To describe them all would be Superfluous, 1 shall only make a short Description of that in the Royal Palace, after the Model of which the rest are built; The Stage is one hundred Foot broad, the Place of the Audience »
[ 94]
dience is a Segment of a Circle of above two hundred Foot Diameter, * it is divided into what we call a Pit and Boxes, with only one Gallery over, * but the Boxes are divided in the Middle from each other by a Sort of Throne or Royal Seat, where the King and Regal Family fit to behold a Tragedy. This Throne stretches out about a dozen Foot into the Pit, and is Supported on each Side by rich and costly Pillars, either of Silver or Gold, or of precious Scone, much more beautifal than Porphyry; over the Canopy are Several Figures of Angels, two of which Support an Imperial Crown, all whose precious Stones are compos’d of Lights which illuminate the Place, * two larger Angels, who stand more forward to the Pit, Support a Sort of a Sun, whence issiie illustrious Beams that en lighterr the whole Tiieatre, without any Sconces as we have, and by consequence without all that filthy Smoke which our Candles make. This Sun throws his Beams upwards and downwards as well as directly forward, by which you discover the Beauty of the Ceiling, which is a fine Cupola, form’d by a Master in the Art of Perlpedive, * for tho’ the Ceiling be fiat, and descends towards the Stage for the convenience of Spreading the Sound, yet you would imagine it a losty Dome. Besides these Illuminations, there come others from two fide Pillars upon the Stage, which make the Place of Action very bright and glorious. The Stage here disters from ours, it being broad and shallow, the Depth being made out, when Occasion requires It, by admirable Paintings in perspedive, * and indeed the Painting of the Scenes is So admirable, that I dare believe a London Audience,
as
I
I
[ 95 ]
as whirafical as it is in that Particular, would
not want that ridiculous Variety which they now post'ess by the Change of Scenes, • for they never change here any more than they did in old Athens, where Such vast Expense was made use of for the Adornment of the Stage, without any Such shifting of Scenes, as is now in life in England. This is a short and imperfeist Account of the principal Theatre in New Athens: The other Theatres are equally large, and bear Some Proportion to the Beauty and richness. One thing I had forgot, and that is, an Account of the Seats of the Audience, which are not Benches as in our Theatres, but distinct Seats, by which Means, tho’ they are placm in a sort of a Semicircle, every one of the Audience Sets with his Face to the Stage, and So participates equally both in the Sight and the Hearing. This is enough as to the Place of Representation; but as to the persons who make this Representation, they are likewise very different from what we have among us. There is none admitted to be an Ador or adress from out of the Dregs of the People, nor who have the least Stain upon their Reputation; and as they are fupposm to be born of Parents of Credit, So they must be more than commonly Educated, tho’ the common Education here would pass for extraordinary elsewhere. The Men, besides their Learning in History and Poetry, are ail taught Painting or Designing, by which they learn not only graceful Postures for themselves, and Such as are agreeable to the very Passions, but also how to dispose their Supernumeraries or Mute persons into Such Groups, as may render them agreeable, if not beautiful to the Audience. To this
pur
[9^]
piirpose. likewise they are not a Company of Ragamuffins, Old, Young, Tall and Short, Awkward and clumsey, and ill dressed as with us; but all proper young handsome Fellows, about six Foot high, and well Dressed, as well as perseft in Dancing and a graceful Motion, by which the whole Representation becomes Solemn and Touching. The Women are likewise taught History and Poetry, and perfectly in strufted in the Action and Gesture, Figure and Motion, proper to every Charadier and Passion; both the Men and the Women are extremely careful of observing the Decorum of the Representation, a Neglect in which is here unpardonable, and looffd upon as an insusterable in folence offered to the Audience. With Such Actors, and on Such a Stage, I was infinitely pleased to See old Milton performed; the Chorus's were composed with wonderful Art, the mufi cal Notes being perfectly adapted to express the ’ Words with the greatest Harmony; and they seem indeed to have retained that Genius for Mustek of which we hear Such Wonders in the Authors of Antiquity. I cannot Say, that sam fon Agonifies was a Tragedy equal to many of their ow n, and yet through' the Humanity of the People it was received with the highest ap plause. This having pleased 'em so well, I was importuned to give them Some more of the pro dufts of our Nation; but I, who perceived their admirable Taste, would fain have been excused from a Task wdience I expected so little Applause. However, having Otveay s Orphan, and Venice Prefervd. I transtated them but met not with that Satisfaction which I flattered myself they would give my Performance; But at the same
time
[97]
time that they acknowledg’d the Poeds Mastery in the Draught of the Passions, especially that of Pity, they assur’d me that his Breach of the Unity of Place had render’d their Stage incapable of representing them.
I thought it was in vain after this, to pretend to give them anything of Beaumont and Fletcher, or even of Shakejjtear himself. However, I inform’d Hermogenes, one of the Society of Poets, of the Method follow’d by Shakeffear in all his Plays, * and to give him the greater In“ “I transsated many of his Lopicks into their Language, which pleas’d them infinitely j but I told him that this Poet was entirely ignorant of the Rules of the Drama, and therefore that all his Plays were but So many Pieces of History, which by consequence could have no Moral, and were of little use or Importance.
Notwithstanding there are four Theatres in this City, there were no Comedies acted in any of them, upon which I gave them a Version of the Alchymifl of Ben yohnfon, expressing my Wonder at their negle<5t of that Poem, which yet had its Rise as well as Tragedy in ancient Greece. ’tis true. Said Hermogenes, that Greece gave beginning to Comedy as well as Tragedy; but the former was never So much encourag’d by the wise State of Old Athens, as the latter. Comedy, indeed, was born in the Villages amongst the meanest Sort of People, and always retain’d something of the licentioufness and Rusticity of its Original, and was even in those Days look’d on, as a lower and less valuable Entertainment, as being more adapted to the Gusto of the Vulgar, whole Lives, Conversations and Adventures were the general subjest
H of
[?8 ]
*1
of that Poem'. The old Comedy was but a Sort of public Lampoon, which was made use of to Set the very Mob against Some of the most eminent Citizens. There is an Example ot this in the Fate of the Divine Socrates the Cry against whom was first Set on foot by Ariflophanes, the most eminent of all the old Cornicle Poets, whose licentioufness' at last grew to that height, that the Government was fain to fuppress the Chorus, in which the greatest part of the abiise was generally contaiffd. After this arose the new Comedy, in which the Names of the Dramatic persons were not real, as in the former, but ficlitious; and the sub jedl generally Some Adventure of an old Covetous Father, his Son, and Some Whore, with the Humours of Davusy cjrremes, or Some other impertinent Servant, who generally managm the old Gentleman for the Advantage of the Son and his mistress : Menander was the great Mass ter of this new Comedy, and he was followed among the Romans by Lerencey who, like all other Copiers, fell very much short of his Original.
As for this Author of your Country, whose Alchymifi you have given us, he Seems much more excellent than either Lerence or Menander; and yet with all his Excellence, I am very well aststr'd he would not be receiv’d in this Country for the following reasons: First, because the Rtdicuky which is estential to this Poem, is what we have the utmost, Aversion to, since it is the Nature of that to divert us from thinking southeast riousty of Things, * and is, by consequence, a great Enemy to reason and just Thinking. In
the next Place, I thank Heaven we have none
of
[99]
of those Vices and Follies among us, which requite this ’sort of Remedy. Beyond the Mountains, indeed, where the irregular Appetites of Mankind prevail too much. Comedy may be of Some use, and is therefore allowu on; while Tragedy is neither dessr'd by them, nor permitted to theni: It is the finer Spirits only with which this Country is generally blessed, that can raise their Souls to So Sublime and rational a pleasure as that of Tragedy, and which I am apt to believe we have in the most perfect State of any Nation in the World.
these reasons were Sufficient to Satisfy me, that Comedy was a Province not to be attempted in this Place.
One Day Hermogenes asfd me if I had no more Poems of that Author who had written the Samson Agonifles. I reply^’d, that I had an excellent one calpd Paradrfe Lofi, which was in great esteem in our Country, notwithstanding its general ill Taste of good Poetry : I rim over the Several Arguments of the Books to him extempore, which pleas’d him So well, that he got the kings Order for my applying myself wholly to translate it into their Tongue, and which I had but just finish’d before I lost the Happiness of those fortunate Regions, by an Accident which I shall tell you before I close this Account.
Before I dismiss this Point of Poetry, I must tell you the Method of their accepting or re jeding any Dramatical Piece: The Players, as learned and judicious as they are, have no hand in the determining the Merit of any Tragedy, or whether it shall have the Benefit of a pnblick Representation or not \ that is decided
Ha hy
[ 100 ]
by the Body of Critics and Poets, who have their principal Ressdence in the College of the muses; and that no Favour or Astedion, or any Prejudice to the Author may influence them in their Judgement, no Author is to be known till after the Performance of his Piece, under this Penalty, that it shall not be acted if the Author be not kept entirely Secret; for though the Judges are Men of eminent Candour, as well as Learning and great Genius, yet to remove all possible Prejudice to Merit, this Caution is inviolably obiervm; and that the Judges may not be teazm with‘plays of little Value, every Author is obligm to Send in first a Plan of his Fabky which if approv’d, public Notice is given that he may Send in the Tragedy itself: And then if the Performance, in the Manners Sentiment and idieiion, be any ways answerable to the Excellence of the Fabky the Play is acted without any more trouble to the Author, without any slavish Solicitation of either the Players or Parties. Whereas in England there is nothing less con fider’d than the Merits of the Piece, if the Author can make an Interest with the Players, and Some leading Men of the Town; that is generally enough to furnish him with the success he desires, let his Piece be never So indifferent in itself.
The Same Method is observ’d in Nevd Athensy in regard of all other Poems; for the Author is never known till the Fate of what he has written is decided; by which means the Thing, and not the Name, prevails in the public ap plaufe.
I have mention’d the College of the muses: It is a large and noble Pile of Building, and its
Apart[
[ ]
Apartments extremely pleasant and convenient; every Member has, at least, four Rooms, and a pretty little private Garden; for the College standing just by the vv^alls, the Members for larger Walks ascend the Ramparts, which I have told you are Set with Rows of shady Trees. In the College there is a public Hall, in which the Members are oblig’d to dine together, at least, twice a Week; where, after Dinner, which is generally about two a Clock, they Spend two or three Hours in learned dis course, held up by the Benefit of a Bottle of the finest Wine in the World. Besides the Hall, there is likewise a very pretty Chapel, where Prayers are perform’d every Morning and Evening. And thus much for the Poetical Part of
New Athens.
There are, besides this College of the Muses, several others of a very magnificent Structure, especially that of the Nobles, where not only the Nobility of all this Country are educated, but all Such of Quality who come from the other p..rts to Study at Athens, the Number of which is very great.
Besides all the Colleges, which are too numerous for me to mention, there are in every Parish public Schools, in which the Children of every Parishioner are oblig’d, till fifteen Years of Age, to be instrudled in all manner of Literature, of which their Age is capable, nor are their Instruftors Such wretched ignorant Fellows, as teach in your Charity schools at London, but Men of Probity as well as Learning, who are capable of teaching their Pupils what they ought to learn, both in the Duties of
Religion and that of the State; tho’ in this
H 3 Country,
, [ loz ]
Country, indeed, they are very nearly related, since all the moral Doctrines of the New Testament are incorporated into the municipal Laws, which brings me to a short Consideration of the Religion of these People.
They are here all Christians, and may be truly So call’d, since, as I have observ’d, the Precepts of the Gospel are the Laws of the Land, and a Breach of them is punish’d by the Civil Magistrate: Thus, if a Man be found guilty of a Breach of the Precept of doing as. you would be done by, he is certainly fin’d or imprison’d; or, upon a frequent transgreffion that way, banish’d beyond the Mountains, which is look’d upon to be the greatest Punishment that can be inssided upon them. The Scripture is in the vulgar Tongue, and read by every one j and yet there is no dispute about Opinions in Faith, which is avoided chiefly by this Maxim, - that no Word or Term be admitted that is not expressly found in the gospel itself; Thus, tho’ there are Several who believe the Substance and Matter of the Trinity, yet the Word, as being the Invention of Man, is not sulfer’d to be made use of, but every Man left to his own Judgement, to believe or not believe all manner of Speculations, which have or may be drawn from any Expressions in the New Testament ^ So that these great Grounds of Qiiarrel, • Distention and Animosity, which rage So much in other Parts of the Christian World, and turn the Gpipel of Peace and Love into Confufipn and Hatred, are here utterly unknown; for they believe that the principal Biifinefs of the gospel is to regulate, improve, and perfect pur Morals, tp render us active in the Duties of
Brotherly
[ 103 ]
Btotherly Love, and the Love of the fiipreme Being; And this, they Say, is the chriscian Religion; for they find, when our Saviour comes to Judgement, he does not condemn or reward any Man for his Speculative Opinions, tho’ never so pompous and magnificent towards himself; but for their not doing or doing the Duties of Charity to one another: And this is so fixed in them, that if any Qiiarrel happen between two Persons, which is very Seldom, one does not reproach the other wfith being of High church or Low church, or any other Denomination Sprung from the disterence of Opinion; bust they cry, you have not done as you would be done by, you have done that to another, which you would not have another do to you. And indeed. Oppression of the Poor, is a thing that cannot come into this Country, * for all working People, of what Trade Soever, have certain Prices and Payments fixed to their Labour, as is Sufficient to maintain them, their Families and Dependants. And if a great Dealer employs any under Workman, and abate himos his Price, as with us; or if any Workman can prove that he was employ by the greatest Man in the City, he can recover his stared Price of him, notwithstanding any Agreement to the contrary.
Their Ecclesiastical Government is divided into Deacons, Elders and Bishops; for they will not allow of the Name of Priest, as being a Word not justified by Scripture, there being no Such Order mentioffd in the gospel; the Deacons are a sort of Helpineets to the Elders, of which there are three in every Parish Church, who officiate in saying of Prayers twice every
H 4 Day,
'^
[ 104 ]
Day, and Preaching t\victc\tr: y ktmd.ay; but it is observable, that they are never permitted to take any Text but out of the four gospels, by which means all their Sermons run upon the active Duties of Christianity, or upon the pas fion and Sufferings of Jeftni Chrijiy which they. express with that Force and Pathos, for they are excellent Orators, that few of the Audience come aw’^ay without Tears. Their Pulpits are not like ours, just big enough to contain the preacher, but more like the Roman Roflra, which were large enough to allow room to the Speaker to move Some Steps, and give that Action to the discourse which might make it more touching to the Audience. The Bishop, who is Supreme in his own .diocess, exercises his Authority chiefly over his Deacons and Elders, and presides in a Court where all accusations are brought against them, and they heard in their own Defence; but if cast for any Irregularity of Life, either Avarice, Pride, Revenge, want of Charity, or drunkenness, they are deprivm of their Places, and banish’d beyond the Mountains : But these Condemnations very Seldom happen; for the Clergy are maintain’d in So handsome a manner, that there are no Scandalous indigent Fellows admitted into their Number, for it is Such as those, in other Countries, that generally bring that Reproach upon the Clergy, which is So frequently in the Mouths of most Men. If the Elders have any Children, they prove no Encumbrance to ’em, for as Soon as they are of fit Age, they are taken from them and put into those Schools, which are Settled for both Sexes; and when they grow up, they are provided for by the Public. The Bishop is
... oblig’d
C 105 ]
obliged to hospitable Living, in which he expends the greatest Part of his Revenue, his Children being likewise provided for by the Public. When a Bishop dies, the King names four, that is, one out of every Quarter of the City; and the Elders meeting in the Cathedral, chuse one of them. As they chuse the Bishop, So each Parish chuses his Elder; by which means a Man of Merit always gets in; for there is no being chosen by a Number of People, but by being popular, * nor any way of being popular but by eminent Parts, and an unblemim d Life; at least, in a Place where the Majority of the Eledors have a large Share of good Sense and Probity.
One Thing I had forgot, and that is, that tho’ they have both Vocal and Instrumental mu lick in their Churches, it is all great and Solemn, and Such as naturally raises the Soul to Sublime and heavenly Thoughts, and never mingled with those light Airs, which are too frequent in Some of our Cathedrals, and of which Some of our greatest Masters of Mustek have been So pre posterousty fond, as to force them upon the most terrible Words. Thus in King Charles ips Tiny, these Words were Set to a Jig,
Sths Pangs of Death have encom^ajfed me about.
♦
Which made that pleasant Monarch say, that it was the first Time he had ever heard of death’s dancing a Jig. Of this kind also are our voluvf tariesy as they call ’em, in which the Congregation are merrily entertain’d with the Volubility of the Fingers of the Organist; but how this can contribute anything to Devotion I know
not;
[ I ]
not; but Lm Sure there’s no Such thing in New Athens. I might say more of the Religion of this People, * but what I have Said Seems enough to show you their Happiness. However, I cannot omit one thing, which is the Punishment of Adultery; but that is a Vice not So common there, as in most other Parts of the World; and, perhaps, the Punishment very much lessens the Number of Offenders, for when st is discover’d, the Man is banish’d beyond the Mountains; and the Woman has a sort of compofi tion rub’d over her Face, which immediately insects it with Tumours and Swellings to that degree, that the most beautiful Face is made the most ugly and forbidding, and she herself degraded from her Qiiality, tho’ never So high, and Sent into that Quarter of the Town where the Washer women are, and under them kept a Slave to hard Work as long as she lives.
It is observable, that there is not in this rich and popular City So much as one Coach; but all, both Male and Female, are oblig’d to walk when they go out, except Wtemen with Child, or Such as are sick or lame, or very old, and these are carry’d in a Sort of Chair, not very unlike our Sedans; but they are not permitted to go where the People walk, but in a Passage peculiar for all things of Burden, that are carry’d upon Mens Shoulders; for thus the Streets are divided; the middle part of the Street is pav’d with a Stone about four or five Inches over, and there on that pass all Carts and other Vehicles of Burden, which are never permitted to be So heavy loaden as the Cars are in London;
I for the People here are merciful to their Beasts,
^ as well as one another. Of each fide of this
Pave[
[ ]
Pavement there rises another, about a Foot above the sursace of the Street, six Foot over, and of a broader Stone, and upon this Passage or Pavement, all the Chairs and Men of Burden pass. Above this again, about a Foot and hal is another Pavement, which reaches to the houses, and which is about twelve Foot broad, that is, in the High streets, but narrower in the narrower Streets, and upon this all Passengers on foot go. The Streets are everywhere kept perfectly clean, which is done by every Houle, being oblig’d in the Morning early to Sweep before their Doors, whilst the Water comes from the Engines plac’d at the End of every Street, and washes away all the Filth into the Common shores, which Common shores are So large, that one of our Carts may go in it lokden with Hay, and to which, at High tide, the Water comes from the Canals, and So keeps them clean and Sweet.
I believe you may, by what I have Said, conclude that this is one of the happiest Cities in the World, * for their happiness is Secured by the Safety of their Peace and Tranquillity, as well as their Health, by these following Means; first, there are no Poor, that is, necessitous, wanting persons, who are deficient in the necessary Subfistance of Life; for it is the bufiness of the Deacons of every Parish to visit all Families in it, and find out Such as Misfortunes may render unhappy; and immediately, as Soon as they are known, the free Contribution of the Brethren of that Parish puts an End to their unhappiness. Another thing is, that there are no Lawyers here, no Attorneys, Pettifoggers, Solicitors, Bailists, and the like, who, in other
Countries.
i
[ io ]
Countries, have a large hand in the Ruin of Families. Here the Elders of the Parish make up and compose all the lesser Dilpiites; and every one of the four Quarters of the City have two Orators, who plead pro and con the more difficult Causes before the King himself; but ‘they have no Fees from their Client, but are paid by the Public a certain stated Salary; So that they have no temptation to embarrass the People in litigious Suits, but are willing to make an end of them all with the utmost Expedition.
That which Secures their Health, next to the happy Situation of the Place, is that they have no Such thing as an Apothecary in all this Country, and not above a dozen Physicians, who are call’d Chessers, as knowing very well that the Art of Physic is purely conjedural, the Medicines are few and simple, contriv’d to help Nature, and not to put it upon a double Labour, by Multiplicity of Drugs, when Sickness renders it the least capable, of combating with the Evils of the Distemper alone, contrary to the Custom of this Part of the World, where the Physician, to gratify the Apothecary, multiplies the nauseous and loathsome Draughts of Physic to the Patient; So that betwixt the Distemper and them, he perishes, to enrich the Apothecary and Doctor. Specificks, wshich are here thought ridiculous, are there in great esteem, as being confirm’d by an Historical Practice, and the Experience of many Ages; and this comes to pafs by the Fewness of Distempers; for Intemperance, the Source of most of ours, is not known in this fortunate Climate.
C I should
[ 109 ]
I should Say Something of the King, and Several Prerogatives; but it will be Sufficient to let you know that this wise People allow him all those Privileges which irtay render him capable of doing good to his People, without any that may enable him to be injurious to their Liberty and Happiness. Accordingly, there is no Prince in the World, who is attended with greater Pomp, Magnificence and Ceremony, than the King of New Athens, and the Territories thereunto belonging; he never is Seen in public, but with the highest applause and Veneration of the People, who look upon him as the Instrument of God for their Good.
At his Inauguration, the two principal Members of the great Council tell him plainly, that tho’ he be greater than any particular one in his Kingdom, yet that all united together are greater than he i that he ought always to remember that that illustrious Office, to which he was now exalted, was instituted for the Good and Happiness of the People he is to reign over, and not to gratify his private Passions and corrupt Inclinations, without regard to the Peace and Quiet of his Subjects j and much more to the Same purpose, in which the Encouragement of Virtue, and Arts and Sciences, and all manner of useful Knowledge, is recommended with great Efficacy; for these People are of Opinion, that a general Knowledge among the People is the best Security of a general Happiness,, * that Ignorance is a dangerous Inlet to Novelties, Commotions, and all other Disturbances
whatever.
But tho’ by this, and other circumscriptions of the regal Power, they have arm’d themselves
pretty
[ no ]
pretty well against those Encroachments by which the Supreme executive Power has, in other Countries, overthrown Liberty, since it was impossible to have a Kingly Government, without confiding very great Trusts to the King; and that there are Men in all Courts who are apt to flatter the Prince, and indus trious to find out Ways and Means to enable him to gratify their own private Aims of Avarice or Ambition, it is an establish^’d Law, without any Exception, that every person shall Set his Name to the Advice which he ’ gives; which keeps them in awe, and makes them ex treamly careful to give no Advice that can be injurious to the Public, being sure, if they did, to meet with an exeinplary Punishment, it being out of the kings Power to pardon the Offence.
By this means the Miscarriages of Government never fall upon the Crown, as in other Countries, but on the true Authors of them. And to avoid the Inconveniences that often arise by the long Continuance of any one Set of Men in the Administration of public Affairs, the king^’s Council, and all Places of Trust and Profit were establish’d by Law to be annual, by which means all grounds of Parties and Faction were remov’d, since no tricking nor sinister de figns could be of any use to perpetuate their Authority : And thus, every Person, capable to Serve the Public, either in Military or Civil Affairs, had their Turns to make their Merit conspicuous. From hence it came to pass, that the State, instead of depending upon a few, had a perpetual Succession of able Heads to Support it; and Fm of Opinion, that this annual
i
%
I III ]
nual Succession of Magistrates gave So' many illustrious hero’s to the Commonwealths of Athens and Rome', however, if we may believe the History of this Country, this Method has for one Thousand Years preserv’d the happiness
of New Athens.
But I Sear I have been So tedious in the Account I have given you of this Place, tho’ very short of what it deserves, that I ought to draw towards a Conclusion, without proceeding to a. Description of the other Cities of this New Attica. However, I cannot make an end, without informing you how these old Grecians came into this Part of the World j and I shall give it you, as near as I can, in the Words of the Learned Socrates, a Member of the College of History of this City; for every part of Knowledge here has its peculiar College. This *so crates was in nothing inferior to that Primitive Martyr of the Unity of the Godhead in Old Athens, and an equal Lover of Truth and Honesty; yet with this Advantage, that he was enlighten’d with the Doctrine of the gospel.
One Morning as we were taking a Walk upon the Ramparts, I mov’d this Question to him, which he answer’d in as few Words as the Matter would bear. I shall not need (laid he) to give you any Account of the Misfortunes which befell Old Athens till its final Destrudion, at least, as far as I can tell, by the Inundations of barbarous Nations. Just before the Second Approach of those People, a pannick Fear had seizm on all the Inhabitants of Greece, and the People of Athens and Attica had a very large share in it, being terrified by the extreme Cruelties
Devastations committed by the Barbarian?
, in
f.
t ]
in their former Irruption: In the midlf of this Consternation, a Man of great Authority and Esteem with the People, and who had been a great Traveller, prevaisd with them to listen to his Advice. }iisjka.va.tw3.sdemophilm; and his Advice was, * that since they lay So expos’d to the Barbarians, as frequently to feel the Effects of it j and that the Roman Empire was ever too weak or too negligent to afford them pro tedion, they ought in common Prudence to take care of themselves: : since they had by Experience found, that they were unable to do this in the Country where they liv’d; he proffer’d himself to be their Condudor to a more fortunate Climate, where they might be Secure against all those Evils, with which they were there daily threaten’d. He confels’d, that Greece was a very pleasing Country in itself, • that Nature had bestow’d upon it So many Blessings, that few Places in the World could equal it, * but that all this happiness vanish’d, if they would but confider that they had no manner of Security of enjoying those Blessings, but must expect either immediate Death upon the Place, or to be transported into insupportable Bondage, by a peo j>le that had no Notion of Christianity or Humanity. That it was not the Fertility and plea fantnefs of any Soil, that made a Country dear to its Inhabitants, or indeed, that deserv’d the Name of our Country, which was only due to the Laws and Liberties which the People enjoy’d j that those were of Such a Nature, that they might transport them with ’em wherever they went. He concluded his Speech, with assuring them, that he was commission’d by Heaven itself
to conduct Such as would follow him to a
I Place,
%
fill]
ibaijej, where they might enjoy those Laws ahdi Liberties without Fear or Danger: That, indeed it would cost Some Time, and a great deal of Labour and Fatigue to Travel to this happy Climate; but certainly, that no Pains or Labour could be thought too great to purchase Security and happiness to themselves and Posters
.... -
This Speech, and the other Applications bf
himself and Friends, joiffd with a fresh Rumour of the Approach of the Barbarians, made about one hundred thousand follow him in this Expedition; carrying with them all that was valuable and useful to them, either in their Journey or future Settlement.
It would be to no purpose td give yoii the Particulars of his Voyage, the many Difficulties he met with, or the Murinurings of his fof lowers, in a Journey of three Years Continuance thro’ strange Countries, vast desarts and the like j having vanquish’d all which; and having past’d a very large Trad of uninhabited Land; he at last brought his People to a large and deep River, to which he gave the Name of the River of Hope; and here they made their last Stand; Demophilm assuring them, that they had nothing to do towards the possessing that noble and beautiful Country he told them of; but to, Set all Hands to work, and cut down Trees; of which there were there a very great Plenty; to build Boats to carry them down that River. The first that were built, Demophilm defir’d might be dispatch’d with him and the rest of the Heads of his People; to go and bring them further assis tancci Accordingly they departed. With a pro fiaise to return in a week’s Time j rowing with
1 ih#
C ” 4 1
the Stream, they arriv’d in this Continent of AF tica^ and landed in a Harbour, which we now call bix^antium^ then only a little Village, containing about twenty houses.
The Greeks that came with Demophilmy were infinitely pleas’d with the Beauty of the Land; but much more So, when they found the Humanity of the Inhabitants. For this Country was inhabited by about one hundred and fifty thousand Men, Women and Children, before the Arrival of the Greeks, and may properly be call’d the Aborigines of the Place; for we have nothing in History that gives us the least Account of their coming hither from any other Part of the World. They were not Idolaters, but believ’d only in one God; they were Affable, Courteous and Docile; in short, they were very much pleas’d with this new acces fibn of People to their little State: Not to dwell upon Trifles, or every minute Circumstance, Care was taken to convey all the rest from the desart to this Continent, to the infinite Satisfaction of the weary Travellers, to find this happy Retreat after ail their Pains and Fatigue. In short, they Soon made the old Inhabitants Christians; and by marrying and intermarrying among them, grew together into one People; and this was the Occasion of the Corrupting, if I may So call it, of the old Greek Language, into that which you now find us Speak.
. We eafiiy prevail’d with our new Brethren, to chuse Demophilm, and Arifita the Head of the old Inhabitants, joint Kings of the united People, under whose Government all Things seem’d to prosper; wholsome Laws were made, and
Liberty
C ” 5 ]
Liberty every way secur’d, Towns and Cities were Sounded, and Arts and Arms improv’d; but this City of Athens was not built till Some Ages afterwards, when the Country was grown Populous, and wanted as it were a Sort of Eh bow Room; when phe6phih4y One of the succep Sors of the two first Kings, whose Families had been united Some time before, look’d upon this Spot of Ground, as a fit Place to build nevj Athens upon; the Ifihmm and Pemnfula Seeming to be a proper Barrier or bulwark against the Invasions of the Southern Barbarians, who theii began to infest these Coasts. From Small Beginnings this City is arrived at length to that Magnificence in which you find it, * and in which,
I believe. Scarce any City in the World excels it, except the great City of Romana, the Capital of this Part of the Christian World : But to give you an Account of that, its Rise, pro gress and History, requires more Time than is now upon out Hands; for now our Hours of Lecture are cortie, and we must each repair to the Performance of our Duty, leaving the Inquiries of Curiosity to those vacant Times,
. when we are not employ’d on more important bufiness. Having Said this, we each return’d to our Several Colleges, * but I shall defer not only ■ my Account of Romma, but of all the Several Cities of Attica. I shall only conclude this dif course, with a short Account of my unwilling Return to these Parts of the World.
After the Barbarians had receiv’d that great Defeat, which I mention’d before; they lay' still for many Years, till the Terror of that Defeat, and the Memory of it were both vanish’d; and new Desire of Plunder, with their Native
I 2 Hardineis
C ]
hardiness and unquiet Temper, put them again in Arras. I was at that Time in the City of Romana with my old Comrade, who was declar’d General in this Expedition against the Barbarians; At his Desire I attended him to the War; which was Soon brought pretty near to a Conclusion, by the Force of our Artillery and Small Firearms, against which the Enemy could by no means think of standing; So that we having penetrated a great way into their Country, a Treaty was propos’d and agreed to, during which, I and Some more ventur’d, out of Curiosity, to go up to the Top of a vast high Mountain, from whence we might discover to the Northward vast Seas, and great Tracts of Lands but as we came down again, mistaking the Path which led to our Camp, we pursu’d one which brought us into that of the Enemy, where we were Soon made prisoners, notwithstanding the Treaty, for they have little regard to Faith or Flonour. There happen’d to be among them one who had been a Prisoner in ltew Athens, and there had Seen me frequently; his Knowledge of me, with the Mark in my Face, which I mention’d formerly, convinc’d the Chiefs that I was no Native of those Parts; but one of those from whom the Christians kad learn’d those terrible Engines of War; and therefore they astlir’d me I should not give myself any Fears of ill Treatment from them, since by letting them into the Knowledge of the same Advantages, I might hope for all the Honour and resped their Country could pay me: Whatever I could say of this Breach of Faith was to no manner of purpose, for we were all hur
I ried
III ]
ried away far into their Country, without any Hopes of Deliverance. In short, I was detailed there Some Months, till I Sound an Opportunity of making my escape from my Keepers, by the Help of a young .Woman, who furnish''d me with the Habit of the Country, and with Sufficient disguises to pass from Place to Place, if I had known whither to direct my Flight; but wandering Northward as much as I could, I came at last to an Arm of the Sea, with my Female Companion, which forbade us going any further. We had not been long considering there, but we discover’d a Small Ship making to the Shore, who manning their Boat, Soon seiz’d us and carry’d us on Board. For my Part, 1 did not much care into whose flandis I fell. So that I could escape the Natives of that Country, * but I was as pleas’d as I could be III that Circumstance, to find it a French Ship, who being driven into those Parts by stress of Weather, seiz’d us in hopes of knowing what Country it was, and what the Nature of its Inhabitants. I let them know that it was a most barbarous and inhospitable coast i and that they could not do better than to make all the haste they could from it, begging them to take me with them, which they consented to do; and the Wind coming to the Southeast, we fail’d Northwest with a brisk Gale. But ill Fortune had not yet forsaken me; for after we had sail’d Some Days prosperousty enoligh, a new Storm arose, and toss’d us with Such Violence, for two or three Days, that at last we despair’d of escaping; but the Storm passing over, the Master astbr’d us that we were not very far from Land, * and,
I 3 as
«
E ]
as he thought, from Carolina whither he woul4 shake, because his Ship was very leaky, So that ail we could do was to keep her above Water till we made the Shore, at least. So near that none of us perish’d when the Ship Sunk. When we got ashore, I was very well pleas’d to find that it was Carolina incieed : for since I could find no way of returning to Neve Athens I was at least pretty Secure of finding a Passage to Old England., which I did in about two Months time, having buried my Southern deliveress in
Carolina.
Thus, Sir, I have given you a short Account of part of my Adventures, during my absenee from England. If this find your Acceptance, I don’t know but that I may. Some time or other, give you the rest; I shall only now add, that I am
Tour faithful
9 ^ •
• «
humble Servant
\
\

Maurice Williams.
ti
• #
a
V
#
\
t ii9l
%
%
LETTER II
ALBERONI: hr, A Vindication of that
Cardinal,
I
A Political Paradox.
Muhis Utile beuum.
To Adam Jubbs Esq; at his iioufe near
coventry street, Piccadilly.
.D E A R SI R,
I Know you have always been averse to enter far into any Party, lest they should expect ^ to Sacrifice the Freedom of your Sentiments to whatever they should think fit to do for their present Interest, in perpetuating their Power, without regard to the Public Goodbye which means we generally find you in the Number of the Grumblers, * for I never knew in my Life, which has been for near threescore Years, any Party, when they got into Power, that did not give just Occasion, by a con dud unequal to their Professions, of discontent to all true Patriots. I except the present Ministry from this Ressedion; for I have been too much out of the World since their Accession to Power, to know enough of their Transactions to fbrhi a certain Judgement of them, * you who live
in the Town, and frequent the politic Astern
I 4 blies
t
V
[ lio ]
biles of coffee hoiises, chocoiate iiouses, and the other resorts of the Talkative, know better what to determine, in this Particular, than I
_ I
do. I think I have known you, since my Acquaintance. with you, four or five times Whig and Porj^ according as the Powers in being either pleasm or disgusted you. How honest this
Conduct may show you to be to the unbiass’d
Considerer, I know not, * but Tm Sure that the cunning Part of the World will not think you very politic or prudent; for the cunning Men endeavour to turn the public Divisions of the Nation to their own particular Advantage, Some by violently espousing one Party, and Some by as violently Setting up for the other; and Some fortunate Fellows by carrying Matters with So even a Hand, that they make an easy Tranfitipn from the falling Party to that whiph is rising: But these are Men, generally Speaking, whose Aim is Riches, not Power; and who are III Posts of great Profit, tho’ not of Dignity, in which they make themselves thought So neces fary rp new Comers to Power, of either Party, as to continue them in their Posts. I could name Several, who by this means have got good Estates by holding their Places in all Turns, as Men who were necessary for the Discharge of those Ppsts, by their long Continuance jn them.
But in reality there is nothing in this, but the Fear and Ignorance of the Men in Power of both Parties; for there are always Men of ca jpacity and Ability enough, in each Party, to perform any Place in the Revenue, which is the btage that astbrds most of the Parts that bring in connderable Profits, either to the Principals of ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ " under
*. .4
« ‘ I
[ lil ]
under Officers; for, my Friend Adam, the pub lick is the.dupe or Bubble, which every Side endeavours to get into their own Management, not for the Love they bear it, but for the Profit it astbrds them.
Though' this happens to Some few, after they are once got into Posts, yet Scarce one these forty Years have made the first Step in Preferment, without, appearing to be of Ibme Party or other.
Multis Utile Bellum is a Maxim that was often preach’d to me by a Friend of mine, when he found that I was Something of your Mind, and not fix’d firmly in any one of the Parties. These public Divisions Said he, are a Sort of Warfare, where each Side is drawn up in Battle array, to struggle for Riches and Preferment, * each one that comes into the Sight, on one Side or the other, has a Lot to get Some of the Plunder, while he who never comes into the Field cannot hope for any Share of it.
This holds good, not only in the domestidc Divisions of Nations, but in the Wars betwixt Kingdom and Kingdom; for here likewise Multis Utile Bellum is certainly true; for tho’ few Nations, as political Governments, get much by War, unless they happen to make considerable Conquests; yet Multitudes of the People of those Nations, which compose the Soldiery, or those who Supply the Soldiery with Arms, Ammunition, Clothing and Food, get Wealth to themselves and their Families: And War is likewise beneficial to Some Nations, by disciplining their People, and using them to Arms, by which they are delivered from a destrui^ive Sloth, and enabled
♦ /
abled to defend their Country against any foreign Invader. »
The Spaniards have, for many Years, that is, from the Time of Philip II been very remiss in keeping their People up to Arms, which, joinm with their native Pride and Sloth, exposed them either to the insults of their Neighbours the French or to depend upon foreign Alliances with those States, whose Security, indeed, depended on their Safety. What little help they ever gave to the Confederacies formed in Europe for their Defence, these last forty Years Sufficiently showj which makes me wonder that Cardinal Alhermi has been So much ridicul’d and laugh’d at, as a mad and whimsscal Undertaker; whereas he appears to me a Man of great Politics, and one who judges too nicely of Things, to have a favourable Judgement pafs on his Actions by 'a vulgar Considerer: As he is an Enemy to my Country, I wdsh all his Designs against it may be confounded, that is, meet with the fairie Event they have hitherto done; yet it would not be just to rob him of his due Merit, tho’ an Enemy. As a Spaniard he has acted both like a Patriot and a great Statesman; he has begun to rouse that Nation which has been So many Years unadive, and beniiirib’d with a sort of a general Lethargy and Supine Neglect of Arms; he has, I say, rouz’d them to martial Exploits, and Sent them upon Such Expeditions, and at Such a Juncture of Affairs, as would give them success enough to flush them to greater’attempts. Thus they carry’d Sardinia, and bid fair for the Kingdom of Sicily, from which they are not yet totally diflodg’d.
I can
«
[ ]
I cannot believe that Alberoni ever Imagined that he should put his Master, the Spanish King, in a quiet and Safe polsession of Such acquifi tions as he should make on that Side y but he by this has furnish him with a disciplin’d Army, us’d to Action, which in time may be of more use to him nearer Horn. He had great Hopes from the dmcions ’m France, and the strong Parties there Supported by the Jefiiits against the Regent, in the Minority of a King, of not above six or Seven Years of Age; and the Interest of Philip V and his Claim, notwithstanding his former Renunciatioii, to the Crown of France; and in cafe he could bring thegallick male contents to aresolution of declaring for his Master, either as Regent or King of France he would then have a disciplin’d Army of Some Force, to Support his numerous Friends among them. His Diligence and Application, both in the Naval and Land Preparations, cannot be Sufficiently admir’d, that in so short a Time could furnish out so many Ships, and So many Men, in a Nation almost destitute of both, on his coming to the Administration And this Application of his is lately made more wonderful, by the taking Fort Pajfage, where they burnt six Men of War already built, and Materials for twenty more, which were to be built with all Expedition, * and this only in one Port of Spain. How great the same Preparations are in other Parts of that Country I know not; but can never believe that all their Naval Preparations were confin’d to Fort pajfagej a Place so near to France; and, by consequence, so liable ro be taken by them: However, this is a plain
Proof
%
[ 124 ]
iproof that Spain is not So delpicable, or incapable of making great Efforts, when actuated by a brisk and masterly Genius. But you will say, to what purpose all this Bustle, Trouble and Expense, since he could not be So mad, as to imagine Spain capable of contending with all the rest od.europey on this Occasion confederated against it, when it could Scarce keep its Head above Water against France alone, tho’ join’d with all the other Powers of Europe?
To this I reply, Firji, That he was very well acquainted with the Divissons in France and England'y and that if he could bring them to bear, he estedtually dissolv’d that Confederacy, whole Support and Cement were France and England. Secondly, That if both tjiese Designs.. him, that his Master was Secure of a Peace upon reasonable Terms; since it was not consistent with the Safety of Europe, that Sfain should fall into the Hands of Frame, to hinder which. Such long. Such bloody, and Such expensive Wars had been undertaken. And I do further fuppose, that he does believe that France itself would never consent that Spain should again fall into the Hands of the House of Aufiria, especially, since if Philip were compell’d to quit Spain, he vimuld be oblig’d to return into France as a Prince pf the Blood, * and by consequence, by Right, become Regent during the Minority of the King, as being the nearest of kin, which would likewise put an effectual End to his Renunciation, which was enter’d into in confide »ation of having the Crown of Spain ', but by giving that from him, they put him in the State he was in before he acctpted of stand leave
him
»
C LI ]
him 5n undoubted Right to Succeed Lewis XV in cafe he should die without Heirs lawfully begotten by his own Body.
Upon these Views, I fancy Albermi is not So whimsical a person as Some may think him. How far I am in the right on’t I know not, nor do I much care, * I have only eas*d myself by putting down my Thoughts of this Matter j which, if they amuse but a quarter of an Hour
of your Time, will be Sufficient satisfa^ion to
To Eriend
anii Servants
t
Anthony Eas*, ’
t • • V.
.1. - ■
1
»
%
t
•. ^
»•■ ♦*.'.• • vc
V
. \
t; t
- •
'I \ ^.. *.
Uh ._
Iiz6 ]
• «
ya Wir ^t\/a\yj^/ai^/i^/^^/ji^//ti\//ii^/ai^/a^//t^//a\//t^/ji^//^/j>i^/as/a^.
LETTER III
«
%
Again dhayi
Cro5 nimis fero efi, vhv^ hodis.
'j
Vrincipis ohjla: fero medicina ftaratur^
Cum mala pr kngas imtaluere moro.
\
To Jonathan Tardy efi; (It Idle hall neclf
Canterbury, Kent.
Dilatory Jonathan,
/
I Thought before this time I should have Seen you in Town, to join with me in Soliciting for your honest Nephew Jack, as well as to look after your own Astairs here, which Suffer extremely by your absence. I think it is now about six Weeks since you Sent me word that you would be in Town in three or four Days at farthest; but I do not expefi: you now in six Weeks longer; nor indeed then, unless you will fairly give over what you have Sought with So much Earnestness; earnestness did I Say? why if your Words were to be understood like other Peoples, I should think that Word proper enough for what you writ but confiderjng, that when a thing comes into your Head, that inay afford you either Pleasure or Profit in your Opinion, you are presently all on fire for the .Accomplishment of it; the first Day you are
eager,
I
[ 1^7 1
eager, the Second Something warm, the third more cool, and So on, till you quite forget the first Heat with which you espous’d it; and by delaying the Chase generally lose the Quarry; however, it Serves you to talk of over a Bottle of October and to amuse your Friends with the wonderful Designs you are going upon, at which they generally laugh, till you are almost angry that they should doubt your Diligence and Application, tho’ they know that the fairest pros peds could never get you yet, by all their Promises, from Idk hall to London. I have known you, I think, these Thirty Years, and I verily believe notone of those Years but furnishm you with at least four or five new Designs or Projects, every one of them the most charming in its Turn, and to be pursum with the utmost Diligence, if I might have given any Credit to your Words; and yet all vanished like a Dream, and ended in your Words only; not that they were all really to be neglected by a wise Man, or the idle Tricks and Designs of cunning Profedors, but many of them might have been very useful to your Country and yourself; and negledeci merely by your dilatory Temper, which makes you grow cool on the Scent of the best Designs in a few Days. You put me in mind of an old Friend that is now dead, who was not easily removed from the Thing that was before him; when he was at the Tavern, though' he loved his Bottle as well as any Man, yet by de aying to drink in his Turn, by telling Some /himsical Story, he often lost his glass, and so iid a double Club to every Reckoning. When reive a clock came, and the Company put min mind that it was tiny to go home, he
would
f
[ ii ]
Would Say by and by. Here Drawer bring the other Bottle and to pay; and thus on till daylight; from whence he got the Name of break a day; and he would curse the blessed Sun for intruding into the Room, and robbing him of his Company, by informing them that it was high time to go home; But he generally took care to avoid that Evil, by ehufing a Room which was naturally dark and artificially confirm so by close Shutters, by which he join’d two Nights in one, lengthen’d by excluding the intervening Day; and this merely to put off that that must come to pass, his going fiome, tho’ he most commonly took care to Save his Legs that Labour, by being carry’d home drunk.
But this, perhaps, may look as if it proceeded from his Love of the Bottle, and not his procrastinating Temper; but it is plain it
was the latter; for when he was at home he
*
was equally putting off his going abroad, though he promis’d his Friends, perhaps, every Night to go with them, and every Night put them off to the next, till his Desire of the Tavern grew too strong for his Laziness. And this was the constant Course of his Life, still putting off the Hour of his going abroad, and delaying that of his Return home.
Whoever is troubled with this Folly of Delay, will never make his Fortune in the World, f since he will certainly lose every Opportunity of doing itj which Seldom returns when once lost; nor, indeed, would it be to much purpose to return to Men of this Temper, who would
be Sure to lose it, let it eoftie riever fb often.
pi
1119]
*
Lhe lucky have whole Days, and those they use
The unlucky have but Hours., and those they lose
And by that means make themselves unhappy, ' Your gase, indeed, is Something different, you are poffess’d of a plentiful Fortune, and therefore have no need of that Activity in the pursuit of Bussnels, which Men of narrow Circumstances are oblig’d to. They should always bear in their Mind that wise Maxim of our Ancestors, ilever to defer that till tomorrow which you can do, today.
But tho’ you are not oblig’d to this Activity which I mention, in regard of the Goods of Fortune, yet you have been a Man of pleasure and a Lover. Delays are as dangerous in Love as in War or in Courts, which makes me believe that you were never very fortunate in your Intrigues with the Fair, for they are full as fickle as the blind goddess, * and if you miss the Opportunity, stis ten to one but there’s an End of your Amour. For my Part, I always confider’d that I was not Sure of tomorrow, and therefore I perpetually made use of the present Day; I confider’d that the Distempers of Fortune were like those of the Body, the longer you let them prevail without applying a Remedy, the more difficult was the Cure. But laying aside all these Speculations, I advise you to come away immediately to Town, for your nephew’s sake, for your own sake, and for the Sake of
Tour faithful Friend and humble Servant.
Philip Forelock
K
0
[ 130 3
LETTER IV
The Fop.
pajliuos Rufillus okt, Gorgonius Hircum.
0
To Mr. plaindress, at his House in Witling --
street, London.
Lear Friend,
I Have Spent my Time very agreeably in the Country, till the beginning of last Week, when there came down two Monsters from London, of a niuch different kind, tho’ they are perpetually together, Rufillus and Gorgonius. rufiutii, is a perfect Sir Courtly ', or, indeed. Sir Courtly would be look’d on as a very faint Copy of Rufillm, he is So exquisite a Fop. Gorgonius, on the other fide, is the errantest Sloven, the most negligent of dress, and fond of everything that is not admir’d by Rufillus. This always stinks of Perfumes, that of his own gross and filthy Vapours,
His fronfy Pores taint the ambient Air.
4
%
Rufillus says he always keeps him company to be a Soil to his Perfedions, as a hand tome young Whore generally goes Atm in Arm, in all the public Places, with a Doudy
would
C II ]
Would almost frighten you. Thus, while rti fillus displays his Fopperies, and by stirring himself gives fresh Motion to his Perfumes, Gcrgoniuf qualifies the uneasy Scents, by Eruftations fioin above or below. And while Rujidus minces' the English to give it a fop’s Nicety to the Ear, Gorgonius bursts out into Language as broad as a Scotchman., and as rude as a bupa. This is the wretched Variety under which I have been confin’d now almost a Week, and which vrill make me quit this charming Place, were I not assur’d we should be deliver’d from their Company in two Days.
Why the Devil does not your great Hive of London keep all her Monsters to herself, and not detach them abroad to disturb the Quiet of us Country Folks } There Rufillus might pass among the Ladies for a fine Gentleman, and Gorgonius atstong the Sots for an honest blunt Fellow; there Rufillus might Spend all his Morning with his Taylor, peruke maker, serapstress and Shoemaker, to Say nothing of his Hosser and Valet de Chamber, his bubble boy and Peidbmer, to equip himself by five or six a Clock in the Evening, to make a ridiculous Figure among the Men, and an agreeable one among the Ladies :
* They tell us that the spicetssands are Smek many Leagues at Sea before they come in view; and rufiptis Sends his aching Odours almost a quarter of a Mile before him. Gorgoitius Seldom gets So early abroad; the Tavern Hour is generally his Levee; and ’ris very well it is So, else the noxious Smells that come from him would be very ostenfiv'e to the passengers in the Street, and IT ghten them with, the Apprehension that Some Plague was hear, by the imwholsome Vak
2 pour
/
C ]
pour that from him assaulted their Nostrils, • but passing only from his Lodgings to the Tavern, the good Liquor and the Tobacco fortify the. company’s Stomach against him.
What strange Animals are these? rufiuus Seems made only for the Benefit of his Taylor, and the other Trades that club to Set him out a most accomplished Coxcomb; he’s more ignorant and more impertinent than the filliest of the filliest Sex; but he has a good Estate left him by a rich Relation, which took him from furnival^s inn and the eighteen penny Gallery, to place him in fine Lodgings in the pall mad. or in the Front box, or the Stage in the Theatres, where he Sets himself as a Mark for the Ladies Eyes to admire, and the rest of the Audience to laugh at. But enough of this Coxcomb, we shall be rid of him in two or three Days; and then I hope we shall have your good Company, which will Soon banish the Thoughts of this Fatigue from
%
Hour faithful Friend and Servanty
William Naive.
t
‘jis
%
'•*,
.f
[ ID ]
^in^^vvn//»n/a>s/i»fn/ain /an^'ivn/wn/«n/y!in/wn >>^/j^/wn/ft(n/an/«n /^wn/mn/ain/m^
«
LETTER V
That the Unfortunate have no Friends.
/
Donee eris felix multos numerahis amicosy nuuus ad amijioi Ttenit amicus oses.
To Alexander Friendly Esq; at his House
near Maidston in Kent.
Sir,
I Received your obliging Letter of the fifth Instant, by which you are pleasm to invite me into the Country, with the Promise of a hearty Welcome, and Co pleasant an Apartment, that I cannot miss of frequent Vifitsin it from the muses, assuring me I shall enjoy it as long as 1 please. This is an Argument of that friendly Temper which is fix’d in your Nature, and discover’d by ail your Actions; and gives me the Satisfaction of finding, that I have not yet lost all my Friends by my Misfortunes; but it happens Co that the Indisposition of my Body deprives me of that happiness which you ge nerolissy offer me, being not able to go out of my Room.
But, my good Friend, how comes it to pass that you are not like the rest of my Friends,. but continue your kindness when theyshavo all forsaken me at a Time when their Friendship was most necessary to me? As for thccommon Herd,
K 3 the
[ H] ]
general Acquaintance which one meets with in this World, I am not at all concerffd for their loss; but I confess I am not So indifferent for the desertion of two Gentlemen, from whom I expected other Things, because of their excellent sense; I shall distinguish them here by the Names of au^o and Addo, both Men of admirable Parts.
Hugo is a Gentleman of uncommon Qualifications; he^s a very good Poet, especially in the Lyric way, he draws very finely, and is an excellent Judge in Painting. He is, besides, a con fiderable Proficient in the Art of Mustek, he’s a very good Critic, and a general Scholar; but whilst Nature has been So bountiful to him, in such fine Qualities of Mind, she has been ex treamly penurious in her Favours to his Body; not but that he is very agreeable in his person, very amiable in his Countenance, which discovers all the Marks of good Sense and good Temper but his Constitution is so weak that he Seldom enjoys the Blessing of Health.
Immodicis hre’vis ejl uetas & rarct fenesius.
Men of Such Accomplishments Seldom arrive at old Age; and this, I believe, will be the Fate of my Friend Hugo; I mean of Hugo who was pnee my Friend, and has forsaken me I know not why. All the cause that I can guess at I shall tell you as Soon as I have given you the Character of
Addo.
4
Addo is a Gentleman who has equal obliga |ipns to Fortune and Nature. Nature laid the Fpundation of those considerable Benefits he
^fterw^l^4s re?eiy'’4 Fortune, by giving
hiin
[ J ]
him a Genius and Parts capable of recommending him to the Great. these he irnprovm by Study at the University, and brought to Perfection by Travel and Conversation : Nature fmisd upon him at his Birth and Fortune in every Step .of his Life. It is very rare and uncommon for Nature and Fortune to go thus Hand in Hand, in the forming the happiness of any one Person; and yet without this Union of Nature and Fortune, it is impossible for any one Person to mount the arduous Steps, which lead to Power and Wealth, with that Esteem which makes every one applaud the success to which Such a Person arrives. Addo has had this happiness, to gain the Several Posts he has pass^d through, without the Envy of any one, and with the Approbation of all: As to the Qualities of his Mind they are very uncommon, for he has at once a Genius for Poetry and business,, • is a perfect Master of all the Classics, and at the Same time of all those political Maxims, which are necessary to conduct him to the Aim of his Desires, thro’ a sort of People, who have, in their own Natures, very little Knowledge of, and much less Regard to those Arts, and that Learning which makes Addo So considerable in the Eyes of the Polite. Though he has all the Genius of a great Poet, yet he has Scarce any of the Vanity; he is So little fond of the praises due to his Writings, that bestowing them upon others, he has rais’d Men of very despicable Parts to the Reputation of being Writers of the first Glass. You know the persons I mean,
I shall not need therefore to name "’em. There is one Quality in Addo as an Author, which is as uncommon as admirable; and that is, a
4 wonderful
4
[13^]
wonderful Modefiy and Diffidence in what he does, tho’ he has Such a Mastery in Learning of all Sorts, as might justify a more dogmatick pro ceedure : I know he has been accus’d, by a per fon who has infinite Obligations to him, that he is extremely averse to make use of his Interest for the Service of his Friend; and that if a Word Speaking in that friend’s Behalf would make him happy, he would not go over the Threshold to do it. But, dear Sir, this Charadfer comes from a Man, who, thro’ the whole course of his Life, has been particularly remarkable for a heinous degree of that very Guilt of which he accuses Addo and from which my particular Experience can vindicate him.
these being the Characters of Hugo and Addo, I shall now tell you my Conjecture of the cause of the loss of them. You know the Malice of my Fortune has oblig’d me Sometimes to fcrihhle, (pven for my Subsistence. In a Book I lately pub iish’d, I had a mind to give the World a Taste pf the Violence of Love, in a few Letters from a fair deferred Lady to her royal Lover. - To make the Characters the more considerable, I rais’d them to the first Rank of Fortune: and
i ^ ^ ^ '
gave the Hero certain royal Virtues, which should make him the more distinguish’d and considerable : But it Seems, that in drawing So perfect a Hero, I hit upon Virtues which were remarkable in an illustrious Character of the present Age. But how was it possible to dress up my Hero in any extraordinary Virtues, without haying fonae of those to be found in that illustrious Character that is full of every Excellence in Nature Yet this it is that ha given Pstence to tiiele two worthy Gentlemen,
I not.
[ 137 ]
not, I hope, out of the Dilates of their own sense and Judgement, but in complaisance to the capricious niceness of Some great Men, who are willing to have their Zeal taken notice on, for stretching of it beyond the Bounds of Justice and reason; for Hugo and Addo are both acquainted with my Devotion to that illustrious Character, and the Susterings I have undergone, and still do undergo, for my Attachment to him, when many, that are now clamorous on this Account, were ashamed or afraid to appear in his cause: This would be enough, one would think, to convince them that I could not be criminal in my Intentions, * and therefore, that whatever Judgement might be made of the Writing, I do not deserve to Suffer So grievous a Punishment as the loss of their Favour.
Besides, there is nothing in the itself that will bare a Parallel. My Heroine is Young, Beautiful, pashonately Fond, and yet Unfortunate y Qualities necessary to produce those passionate Letters which I propose to write: The Lady whom my Enemies would suppose to be meant, is neither Young, Passionate nor Unfortunate, and therefore could never be in my Thought when I drew the former.
But Such is the Tyranny that rules all Men, who either have, or expel: to have, any great Post, that they must reject even the most Innocent, if his Misfortune make him obnoxious to the surmises of the Men in Power. This, in short, is my Fate with Hugo and Addo, unless there be at the Bottom another Cause, which I am very unwilling to lay at the Door of Men of their acknowledg^’d good Qualities; and that is, that they grow weary of a person, whose
Necef
I
[■JS]
Ncceffities compel him too frequently to Seek: their Assistance, without any Prospect of that Interest of their Services, which the Cunning of this World lay out all their Favours in; Age, sickness, lameness, and Blindness, are too forbidding to engage Men of So Servile a Principle. But whatever be the cause, unless that which I formerly mention’d, I am confident this is not so with Addo and Hugo; they are Men of too much sense and goodness to be guided by these mean Considerations; and tho’ Tm extremely troubl’d at the unhappy Event, I am still entirely ignorant of that which produc’d it; But I must do with this, as with all other Misfortunes I cannot help, endeavour to forget a loss that I cannot retrieve. The only Comfort I have in this Juncture, is, to find that I am not indifferent to you, which hinders me from being entirely un happy, since I can write myself
Tour sincere Eriend^
And Servant,
Carlo Am o nt e s o CI o.
C 159 ]
f
I
LETTER VI
I
'agdf^ft Avarice,
Quid non mortalia peeiora cogis Auri sacra fames? — — —
To the most Honourable — — — of
My Lord,
YOU do me too ‘much Honour, in requiring my Advice on a Subject So publicfc and political as your Letter mentions. ’tis true, I have been a Sort of an Underling in public Affairs, during a late Administration: But, my Lord, we moved by Principles So very different from those which now obtain, that my Advice, in this Particular, would be to no manner of purpose I yet I cannot lose this Opportunity of giving your Lordship Some Advice, which more particularly regards yourself. I know that Noblemen, as well as Kings, are not fond of hearing Truth, especially when it attacks their Inclinations, - and every Man has Such a reserve of Pride and self opinion, that he cannot easily bear to hear his Conduct cen fur'd, as if that brought his Understanding in question pr rather condemned his favourite Actions, with So evident a Justice, that his under jl^ndiig cpuld not complain of the Verdict.
lam
0
• 4
[ 140 ]
I am Sensible that your lordship’s Understanding is perseduy good, that your fine Taste in the politer Arts is very uncommon, which makes me the more willing to remove that Blemiish, which alone docs Sully your Charadlet; I mean, that Auri sacra fames, which is but too visibly the Canker that eats up your Reputation, tho’ I look upon Avarice to be to the Mind what the Gout is to the Body, a Malady that the phyfi cians and the philosophers have not yet been able to find out any Remedy for, at least. So far as to work a perfect Ctire; yet there have been Medicines that have render’d the Fits more tolerable, and less frequent and lasting. This, I am Sure, has been true in the Gout; and I think I have known Some Instances where it has not been less So in Avarice, * that is, I have known Some Men, whole Minds have been Sufficiently infected with this Distemper, struggle up, upon Occasion, to Actions truly generous; but whether this has been the Ested of Some short Prevalence of a contrary Virtue, or the more to gratify that Vice by some future prosped, wshich that short Deviation into Generosity drew more near, and gave them a better Opportunity of gratifying their darling Vice; let the Motive be which it will, k is certain, that the Action is always beneficia*o the Reputation of him that does it; and therefore, tho’ the person may not deserve the Name of a generous Man, he will certainly merit that of a prudent Man. Avarice is like Envy, odious to all Mankind, and deny’d even by those who are the greatest Slaves to it; yet whilst they are asham’d to avow the Folly, that Shame is not strong enough to prevail with them to avoid it.
. Avarice,
\
[ II ]
Avarice, tho’ it proposes to those who are guilty of it their Advantage and Interest, yet in public Characters there is nothing more injurious to them; for when Such a Man is known to be avaricious, every one is upon his Guard against him; nor will any one apply to him, but Such as his immediate Post obliges to it. If your Lordship be a Person who value your Reputation, and the Esteem of Mankind, you must avoid this Vice with your utmost Care; or, at least, disguise it So artfully as to hide the visible Tokens of it. I cannot but think that our Lordship has a Dessre of being distinguished Irom the common bulk of Mankind j whence elfe those Titles of Dignity, with which the Crown has adorn’d you? But, my Lord, Titles are of very little consequence to the Person who poffestes thein, and makes a very Small Advance in the Esteem of the World, unless the Virtue and Perfedions of that Peribn be as exalted as his Titles: But it would be a hard Matter to persuade the World, that a Person, by what Title Soever dignified, can merit our Esteem when guilty of Avarice; for that Vice obliges its Slaves to Such little and mean Attempts, as must render them contemptible, * and wherever there is Contempt it is impossible there should be Respect and Honour. Your Lordship is a Man of Rea Son, and therefore should be suppos’d to have Some regard to that in the Conduct of your Life; but Reason is the greatest Enemy that can be to Avarice, that always proposes Some Aim or End that brings, or contributes to, a real happiness; but Avarice is not only accompanied with a perpetual Care and Pain, and inexpressible Fear and Solicitude,
but
[14^
but never arrives at any End, but is always pursuing, with a fruitless Anxiety, what it is Sure never to enjoy. I confess that happiness consists in Opinion, and that its obj’eft is not the Same in all Men j but then you must allow me, that every Man who pursues a happiness, pursues, at least, the Enjoyment of Some particular Object, the Polfession of which makes amends for all the Pains and Fatigues he has gone through to obtain it, • but the avaricious Man Seeks Riches, not to enjoy them, that is, not to make nfe of those Pleasures, and that Satisfaction, for which their polsellion is only valuable; for a mere Heap of Gold and Silver is of no more confeqiience, than as much Lead or Iron. I do not forget the Answer made by a Miser, to one who told him, that he took all that Pains to rake his Riches together, only to enable his Son to Squander them away. Let him (Said he) but I defy him to spend them roitb half the Pleasure that I got them. But, my Lord, this was a false Boast of the wretched Miser; for it was plain, by his whole Life and Conversation, that he never knew what Pleasure was; and that the only Benefit he could reap by all his Gain, was only to give a transitory ease to his Pain, a short Relief or ssakingof his Thirst, which immediately returns upon him more violently, or a poor penurious Meal to the most voratious Appetite, • and you might as well tell me, that the Man who feels a perpetual Hunger and Thirst enjoys Pleasure and happiness, as that a Miser, who perpetually covets more, finds a Felicity in unfatisfy^d Desire. All our Passions, which are the Source of our Pleasure as well as our Pain, propose Some End, Some
Object[
[
Object, which obtain’d, they rest from Pursuit, and poffess it with pleasure; but Avarice is a i Sort of Fox chase for Life, where you are Sure > never to come at the Quarry — — But, my Lord,
I begin to rested: that I am talking against the acute Pains of the Gout, to a Perion labouring under the Violence of that Distemper; all I cam say will not lessen the Anguish; and all my re fledions are of little consequence to that Gout of the Mind Avarice, which Heaven alone can cure, and a wise Man allay; and your lordship’s wisdom gives me hopes, that if you cannot work a perfect Cure on yourself, you will, at. least, make the Evil tolerable by your f)rudent Conduct, and the intermixing Such Ads of ge nerofity, as may conceal your Distemper from the Public. However, I hope your Lordship will be So candid as to believe, that all I have said in this Letter has been the Effect of my Desires to Serve you, and to prove that I am.
My Lord,
Tour Lordjhif $
mofl humble Servant,
J. Mil TONNE;
1
f •
C 144 ]
V
r
L E T T E R VII
The: r eating Poet after
\
• %
, fone via facraj ftcut mem eft mos, jkfefcio tptid me ditans nugarum & tot us in ifu* Accurrit quidam notus mihi nomine tantum C.
4
To Spondee Dadyl Esq; at his Ooainbers
in the Inner Temple, London.
A
Dear Coujin, ",
I A M glad to hear by your last that you are in perfect Health, and follow your Studies with the utmost Application, * that is the way, indeed, to arrive at Power and Wealth; for the Study of the Law is the most beneficial of any that employ the’mitid of Man; it stands upon a Bottom that can never fail, as long as Mankind are diredfed and Set at work by that litigious Temper, which is not likely to cease in our Days. But give me leave to tell you, that you Seem pofless’d with another Inclination, which appears incompatible wdth your Study of the Law, I mean your Inclination to Poetry, Tor I have Seen many of your verses; and must, with the Freedom of a Friend and kinsman, tell you, you had better stick to Cook upon little ton^ than throw away your time on Virgil and Horacei and Qovoley 'arid Sfencer, Milton Waller
and
/ • -
s
11451
and Dfyden. You may be capable of riialdng a very good Lawyer, and raffing yourself and Family at the Bar, when you may possibly make but a Scurvy Figure in the Province of verse, from whence there is but little to be got to bal lance the Risk which you run of being thought a mere Poetaster j or which is next to it, a bare Verfifien I own your Numbers are Smooth, and your Diction correct and forcible; but in all those Essays of yours, which I have Seen, I can find little of Design or Fable, which distinguish’d the ancient Poets from the mere Dabblers in Very : I own you may please the injudi dious Town by a Smoothness of Numbers, and a Pomp of Expression,, • these are the
Verfm inoles rerum nugaqm canora.
There is another Folly, I arh told, ydii are ex treamly guilty of, and which shows you to be far gone in this Disteihper; and that is, your fond ness and Vanity of reciting your Verses in all. Companies; and this, indeed; gives me Some Doubts of your Genius, none having been eminent Reciters of their own Works, that ever Writ things worthy reciting: Virgif who had the most graceful way of reading his own Verses in the World, never read them in public, but with the utmost Reluctance, tho’ always certain of Applause when he did it; whereas Fannius^ a Scribbler, defpis’d by all the Men of Sense in ^ that Time, Was the most diligent Man in the World in forming of Assemblies to read his Performances to; and yet it vas then a Custom for the Poets to recite what they had written in pnblick; but I believe that custom wa Soon
L worn
(
[ ]
worn out, * for we find Petromm Arbiter giving us an Account, that his Poet eumol^m was pelted with Stones by the very Boys, to make him leave off reciting in public. I have wish’d before now for the Same Relief, against a reciting Poetaster of my Acquaintance.
Retteau was a Fellow bred to Business, tho’ not without some little Latin, which he learn’d when he was a Schoolboy. This, and reading Romances, and keeping Company with Some of the under Poets of the Age, had poffess’d him with the Spirit of Rhyming, So that it made him as great a Plaghe to others as Satisfaction to himself If you caird upon him at his Office, you would find on one fide of his Desk, the pvafie bock, Cajh booky journal, Leidger, dec. and on the other a Song to Phillis, Damons Complaint, and many more of that kind; and let ■ the Business require never So much Expedition, if any one came in who would hear him, it was all laid aside till he had recited the Verses he had by him r and you were never Secure by any Place or Company from his repeating Humour; the Streets and the very Churches were not Defence enough against it. Coming down cheap fje one Sunday, just as Chiiixli was done, and the Streets crowded with People, I met Retteau; and thinking myself pretty Secure, both by the Place and the Time, I bid him good morrow, which was enough to give him a handle for his plaguing me for at least half an Hour with his Verses, whip his Hand was in his Pocket, and out comes the Letter cafe, replenish’d with a Cargo of Crambos. Oh, I am glad. Said he, I hanje met you, I have a Curiojity or tv: o to Show pu, which yet have hlefddthe Ejes of very few; the Pror
dub)
[ 147 ]
4
dub, / can ajjure youy of the to genites of th Age: By which he hop’d to engage my Attention, * but if I happen’d to praise them; he took: care, before we parted, to let me know they were his own. With much ado I got rid of him for this time, * and when next I met him it was at a Miifick meeting, where, as Soon as the Performance was over, he started from me, much to my Satisfaction, to find that the Plague was defign’d for others and not myself; for Retteau being, among other usefiil Qualities, endow’d with an incomparable Assurance, seiz’d upon Some of the first Quality, and lugs out his Poetry upon them, not that he had the Honour of being known to them, but the good Luck to know them. The Persons of Qfiality were pleas’d with his odd Impertinence, and diverted themselves with his fantastic Behaviour: and though
^ ‘ m ^
they plainly laugh’d at all he Said and show’d them, yet Retteau imagin’d that he had obtain’d his End, by making them laugh, tho’ on the most serious Subject, went off in Triumph, and overtook me in Transport, for I had left the Place before him, for fear of being taken by those noble Persons for a Fool of the same Magnitude.
Tho’ all those Gentlemen who love to read their ownverfes, are not equally troublesome and impertinent, yet they all are capable of making a Man very uneasy in Company, since they read not to Submit their Poem to you for Corredlion, but to bribe your Applause, by the Deference they Seem to pay to you in admitting you to the hearing of it: Some of them have So good a Memory, that while you think they are reading they are only repeating, and employ their Eyes
La to
[ 148 ]
to watch your Countenance, thence to gather your Approbation or Distike, with a greater Certainty than from your Words: So that all the while one of these Poets reads, you must Set a strict Guard upon your Looks, or you will be Sure to disoblige him in Spite of all you can say in his Favour.
I would, not have you think, by what I have Said, that I am against your showing your verses to a Friend, * on the contrary, I would never have you part with any, till you have had the Opinion and Corredion of the most judicious of your Acquaintance; but then leave the perusal of them to themselves in their own Closets, when they may weigh them with southeast dateness, for few or none can make right Judgement of things of this Nature, by a bare Re -- cital; for the Reciter either gives them a Grace in the Repetition, which they have not in them selves; or elfe, on the other fide, they make So bad and awkward a Recital, that the Verses Suffer, and Seem worse than really they are.
these are Some of the ridiculous Gircum* stances which the Affectation of writing ofter exposes a young Man to. Ben ^ohnfon very well observes, that he had known many a Mar make his Fortune by using Poetry as a mistress. but never any one who took it for better and for worse, and made it his Wife. I am hot therefore against your writing now and then a Copy of verses; because, let their Merit be what they will among the Judicious, they may happen to recommend you to Some Man of Power, who vrould be thought a Patron of that Art, tho’ a fine Taste and a good Judgement in it II Scarce to be found in Men of that high Station,
’ and
I h9 ]
and therefore )we See they generally direct their Favours by the applause of the Town, than which there is nothing more false and uncertain, as the learned and judicious Pen Johnson long ago observ’d, when he tells us that the applauded Poetry of the Age was in reality So despi cably bad, that a Man would not wrap up a wholshme Drug in it. Write therefore Poetry Seldom, recite it never, give your whole Mind to the Study of the Law, * and by that you may raise yoursdf without cringing tp any great Man of them all. This is the hearty, sincere, and friendly Advice of
Tour loving Kinsman,
•V
’ William Wiley.
✓, ^
(
0 •
• • *
»
[ 150 ]
• «
i ♦ -- ' * - '.
% '
M
• * - .^
THE
LOVES
I
O F
DON ALONSO
f
Duke of LERMA,
%
AND
x)onna Olympia Dibianchi.
* ■»
Amata Relinquere pernixf
%
nn the Time of Philip III of
Don alon%>o Dakt of Ierina was Sent Ambassadpr to Rome. He was very young for that Post, having yet not ’ ’ Seen his 30th Yearj but the Greatness
of his (^ality and the Brightness of his
Parts.
^ ■ “■. i. ■ m
j
[ 151 ]
Parts, join’d with the Favour of his King, easily supply’d that desed. He was in his person very graceful, in his Countenance there shone a lovely manliness, his Eyes were quick and piercing, his Stature tall, and his Inclinations amorous; all which together made him very successiul with the Fair Sex.
Donna Olympia was about eighteen Years of Age, very beautiful, and married to an old hus band; yet behavm herself with that Conduct and Virtue, till she saw Don Alonzo, that she gave entire Satisfaction to her Husband, and fe cufd herself against allvthe censures of the Malicious. The only Places where the Women have any tolerable liberty in these Countries are the Churches, which makes them more fre quente.d by the Ladies than otlierwise they would be, being the Scenes where the beginning of most'pf their Amours are acted. There hap ’ pen’d about this Time to be a great Solemnity perform’d at the Church of Santa Maria magfi ore, to which a plenary Indulgence had invited a great Concourse of People, among whom was Don alonzo and Donna Olympia: The Spaniard. came not So much out of Devotion to the Floly Virgin, as out of hopes of finding Some nev Adventure with Some fair Votary of hers. Donna Olympia indeed, il we may judge by her past Actions, came not with any Earthly Intentions, but was drawn thither by the cogent Superstition of the Day and ot the Place. As she past by Don Alonzo, he was extremely taken with the fine Mien and Shape of her person, but her Face was hid with her Veil; However, he order’d one of his Attendants to watch her Home when she went out, and that the more eagerly, bec^use as she past
L 4 ' by
[ ii ]
by his Stand, she took care artsuliy to throw aside her Veil So far, as to give him a Sample of the Beauties conceal’d by it; for when she came in, the Charms of l>on Alonzo had Sp ' fir’d her Breast, that she hop’d by this Dishp' very to engage his pursuit.
The Messenger Don Alonzo Sent to follow her Home, brought him Word, that she was the Wife of one Seignior Dihianchi a Rich and miserly Roman Banker, and that her Name was Donnct Olympia', adding, that he thought she was one of phe most beautiful Women that ever he beheld in his Life, which he difcove|: ’d by an Accident as she past along j for the Wind being pretty strong, at the Sudden turning of a Street, blew her Veil quite off from her Face. This new Description of the Beauty of Olympia by his Servant added to the eagerness of the Duke, to begin an Amour frpm which he promis’d himself So much Pleasure. He was not negligent of improving every Moment to the advantage of his Passion; he therefore, upon inquiry of his Agents, found that The Family was entirely govern’d by an old ill naturm, covetous Governant.. to whose condikst the old Gentleman entirely confided the Guardianship of his spouse’s Honour; So that Don Alonzo believed, that if he could gain the Governant to his Interest, he should not miss that success wdiich he defirm in his Amour; and the only way to do this, he knew, was to gratify her predominant Passion of Avarice; and this was managm by his Agent with that ad dress, that what by Sonie ready Gold, and pro inises of Mountains upon the success, he entirely gain’d the Governant into his Master Interest; with a Promise to'deliver a Letter to
-■ - ■■ ^ ^
; VI i
[ 155 ]
her, and plead So heartily for Don .alon%.o with jier, that she could not but prevail.
The next Day Don alonx.o took care to ride out of Kome^ attended by a noble Train of Servants ^ he took dimancht s house in his Way both coming and going. The Governantehtm^ inform pf his Design of passing that Way, took care to place ‘qlympa in one of the Windows, where she might see and be Seen. donalonz.o made one of the most graceful Figures on Horseback in the World; zndolympiay if she was smitten
before, was now entirely enflav’d by this second View; nor was alonzo less in Love with her, by having so full a Sight of her Face ajid per fon.
The Govemante took care to praise the Spaniard to a Degree above what any Mortal Man could deserve, and to try all the Ways that a cunning old Woman could contrive, to insinuate a Passion into the Breast of so tender and young a Creature. Olympia was secretly pleas’d, to find her an Advocate for her Lover, whom she before apprehended would prove the greatest Obstacle to their happiness, * but how agreeable Soever this Discovery was to her, she took care to conceal her Satisfaction, and to put on an Air of cojdness or Indisterence to all the go ’pernante Said to her on this Subject.
As Soon as Don Alonzo came Home, all transported with what he had Seen, * he Set himself
down to his Scrutore, and wrote the following Letter?
*. : > e » 1
\ .w ^ •
LET
u
C 154 ]
LETTER I.
t
f ^
Alonzo to the Charming Olympia.’
i
# y >
TH E Excels of your Beauties, which have
So entirely vanquish the stubborn Heart of Alonz^oy and made me of the coldest of Mankind, the warmest and most passionate Lover in the World, is the only thing which comforts me in my Distress * Surely she who excels all other Women in Beauty, must likewise transcend them in Compassion, * for Nature would have given you these Charms, of which you are mis tress, to no manner of purpose, unless she also Supply a Will to cure thole Wounds they make; unless she taught you the Justice of rewarding a faithful Lover, why should she give you the Power of making one? That I am Such a one you may easily believe, from consulting your own Charms in your glass; they will tell you, that it is impossible to See them without the highest Love and Desire: But Olympias Power over me began even before I was blessed with a Sight of her Eyes; her very Person was fusti cient to alarm my Heart, and breed that dis quiet, which has never left me since I first Saw you pafs by me in the Church : Yes, fair Olympia your Empire o’er me began by rivalling Heaven itself, and turning ail my Prayers to the blessed Virgin, and the Angels and Saints, into Wishes, directed all to the Earthly Angel before
me..
c155 ]
me. But when I had a full View of your persedions in my Cavalcade, I was entirely lost in a Passion, destin’d by my Stars, either for my excessive Happiness or misery; Yes, bright Olympia, my Love is too stroiig to admit any middle State; Happiness or misery is my Lot, and that dear tender Bosom must decide which is to be my Portion. I know, alas! too well, that you are another’s; but I know at the same time, that it was not your Choice which made him Master of a treasure, which he can neither know nor enjoy; for to know and enjoy Such a treasure as Olympia is, a Man must be Young, Generous and Brave, and have a good Portion of sense; But Dihianchi is Old, Avaricious and base, without sense enough to sea fon him from a Fool; Sure these are Qualities that can never render him dear to Olympia. Your Relations made no Scruple to Sacrifice you to the Wealth of a miser, and by that Means to cut you off from all the pleasures that Youth and Gaiety require; and will you contribute to the Curse they impos’d on you, and not listen to a Lover, who is ready to venture everything to enlarge you from So unworthy an Imprisonment, and bring you acquainted with those Raptures of Love, which you only can inspire and receive } this Justice requires of you, both as to you and me. If you hear not ray Prayer, you make me the most miserable of Men; So miserable, that to bear it would be a Proof both of my want of Love and reso iution; No, Olympia, you ycidiy assure yourself, that without your Pity alonzo is no more.
This
[ I 1
_ * * ' > This Letter was Sent to the Govername, and
by her deliver’d to Olympia; who, tho’ she de fir’d to read it with the utmost Impatience, yet she suffer’d the Governant to press her with abundance of earnestness, before she would consent to peruse it; and .yet more Arguments to get
her to return an Answer. At last she took Pen
- « •. • >
and Ink, and made this Reply,
A ^
LETTER II
Olympia to Alonzo.
My Lord,
IT is with Some Reluctance, and a great
deal of Importunity from your Advocate, that I prevail with myself to make any Answer to your Letter. It is a sort of Crime in a Married Woman, to read any Letter from a Stranger, * but I fear it is making myself a Partner in your Guilt, by taking sh much Notice of a Declaration of Love, as to fencj any Answer at all to it, tho’ it be a Denial, However, perhaps So much may be due to your Quality, as to let you know, that your criminal Suit is here to no manner of purpose; for tho’ my Husband be Old, and perhaps not entirely free from those Defects you imagine in him; yet my Virtue, I hope, is Sufficient to Secure his repose. You tell me I am Young
and
4
J
C 157 ]
/
and Charming, and would you therefore endeavour to rob me of my principal Charm, Virtue? without the Guard of which, all those Beauties, which you are pleas’d to tell me I have, would be no more than the Charms of a i^rostitute; a thing, which I am confident could never move a Man of So fine a Taste as Don Alonzo; and there is but Iktle Hopes of your Constancy, when you would rob me of that very thing which is the chief Cause of your Love: Trouble me, therefore, with no more Letters on So hateful a Subject; not that I am angry at the Passion that a Man of alonzo^s Parts and Qiialities tells me he has for me, for we all take pleasure in being belov’d, at least, ' in thinking that we are So, even in an Age, when Mens Professions are not to be weigh’d by their Words. But if your Love be more than Words, prove it by your Silence; and not Seek by my unhappiness to ease your own disquiet.
I
Olympia.’
'Alonzo was very well pleas’d that he had obtain’d any answer at all, * for tho’ she seem’d to reject his Passion, he perswaded himself that she could not have done more than she did on his first address. He therefore wrote her this following Letter.
L E T
c158 3
Sits s«s sas s/.ss>is%^^as^ass>is7as?assms%ssi^/a^7as?^
t
X E T T E R III
/
pair Olympia,
Your answer to my last gave me a
great deal of pleasure, as well as a great deal of Pain. A Letter coming from those dear charming Hands, could not but afford an infinite Satisfaction to a Man that loves like aionz.o. I gave it ten thousand Kissfes, and plac’d it in my Bosom near my Heart, where it lay all the past Night, and inrich’d my Slumbers with Such Dreams, Such transporting Visions, whose Raptures can be equal’d with nothing but Olympia herself. But then, when the Morning Sun had made my Room light enough to return to the perusal of your Letter, my past Joys found a Severe Check from your Resentment of my past Conduct, and those Obstacles which you rais’d against my future Happiness, by making it incompatible with your own: No, fair Olympia could I be Satisfied, that my Love could be any ways injurious to your Felicity, I would Sooner undergo ten thousand Deaths, than to attempt the Satisfaction of my Love any farther; but why must my Passion be So fatal to you? or how, indeed, can it be So? You say it is to rob you of your principal Beauty, your Virtue; but is it impossible that two can Love, and yet be innocent? and if that can be, what should
make mine more criminal than any others? I
fear
[159 ]
fear you take Virtue in too rigorous a sense; Sure you might admit both my Letters and my Visits without any detriment to it. I only desire to tell you of my Love, to convince you that I am entirely your Slave, and therefore absolutely under your Command in all my Actions j So that you can never be unsafe in the Company of that Man, who only lives and moves just as you shall order it. If, after all, you perfist in this unmerited Cruelty, * I shall Soon convince you by my Death, that none ever lov’d So well as
\
Alonzo.
His Agent took care, as Soon as Opportunity offerm, to deliver this Letter to the Governant, who had brought olymaa by this time to own that Alonzj) was not indisterent to her, * but she could not prevail with her to write him any more Letters, because she did not by any Means think it proper, to give a Confession of her Love under her own Hand; So that for the future all was manag’d by melsages, till Olympia gave her Content that he should come and pay her a Visst, which by Dibianchts absence sltfref cati, they had a lucky Opportunity of effefting all People at Rome are like their Leaders, Mercenary, and will do anything for Money j accordingly, alonz.o^s Agent had brib’d a Carter, who generally brought Meal and Corn to dibian chis Granaries, to convey alonzo in like a Miller, • and from the Granaries, with Some Difficulties and Some Danger too, he mounted up into Olympian Apartment, who was not a little
pleas’d
t ]
peas*d and diverted at the Sight. But she Sodii furnish’d him with a rich Nightgown;; he, having cast aside his Miller's Habit, clapped about him. Whether these young Lovers talked only of Platonic Love, and were as careful of their Virtue, when together, as when asunder, I shall not pretend to determine; I shall only Say this that they found out Several Ways and Means of Meeting together, as often as possibly they could, till the Time was now come, that Alon Z was jpreparing for his Departure for spaiuj which gave Donna Olympia no Small Concern for the approaching loss of a Lover, who she valued more then her Honour or her Life. For she pressed Don alonzo very e^nestly to take her with him, * but he, whose Panion was not quite lb mad as hers, did all he could to perswade her against So wild a resolution, but could not prevast j shut on Solemn promise, either to return again to Rome, ox make Such Provision for her Reception in Spain, as might render her Journey thither less dangerous than now it would be. But whether alom^o ever intended any Such thing or not, or whether he grew tired of an Amour which promis’d shim nothing new j or lastly, whether the new Grandeur and great Post, to which he arrived Soon after his Return to Spain, banished all the lighter Thoughts of Love, I know nob But Olympias Impatience being proportioned tb her Love, made her write him the following Letter into
L E f.
*.

%s!i>xydiy/^7aixhtx h^yz/xy^h^ym^yax h^ya^h, ^yj^n^yj^
#
LETTER IV
9
Donna Olympia to Don Alonzo Duke of
Lerma.
«
«
IT is now three Months, Alonto^ inde yoti left Kontej Sull of Vows and Protestations of eternal Constancy j and Oaths, that as I was entirely mistress of your Heart, you would omit no Opportunity of Writing to me, and of preparing all Things ready for my Journey to your Arms. Oh. Alonz, Oy are all these Vows, all these Oaths already forgotten? do you remember no more the Pains and Agonies, in which you left the unhappy Olpnfia 1 you Sure once did Love me, for it was impossible that .Man could be so exquisite a Dissembler, to fain all that Love, which every Action and Word of yours seemm full of. If there had been no real Passion in all you Said and did remember our last Parting, • it Seems present to me even now, the Tears gush afresh from my Eyes, and the Agonies of my Heart are too strong to suffer
me to go on without a pause -- When I fell
on the Floor, and swoon’d So often away that you despair’d even of my Life then; yes, even then I was not without Some Comfort, for when ever I lifted up my Eyes, I had the pleasure to find the visible Symptoms of all my Agonies in dear alonz.o^s Countenance, and which promis’d a fineere Partner in ray Fate if I had then expir’d.
M Oh I
[ l6z ]
Oh I that I had, then had I not suffer’d more dismal Pangs in my Doubts oi.alonz, d.s Constancy 1 then I had only felt the Pangs of Death, and Scarce those, whilst I was breathing my Soul into alonz>o^s Arms; but now I feel the Pangs of the Death of Love, which can never be known in their full Height by any one who Loves with less Ardour than Olympia. But is it possible that Alonzo can be false? is it possible that he should think no more of Olympia? forgive my Fears, I would not be unjust to Alonzos perhaps he may have written to Olympia tho’ j the dear Letter never came to my Hand. Spain I is a great Way oss^ and a thousand Accidents might intercept the wish’d for Blessing without his Fault; and yet three Months are gone, and not one Word have I heard from him. Were he that true, that constant Alonzo I once thought, him, he would let no Day pass without Writing Something to me nor any Hour slip by him, without thinking of me; and Sure one of all those Letters might have come to my Hands; but none, none, not one, not a Line, not a Word, proves beyond Controversy, that my Alonzo is false or dead. ‘ Oh 1 that it were the latter; for Such is the Extravagance of my paf fion, that I had rather he were dead than false; Death should Soon unite us, but Falsehood Separates us for ever. You will find by my Letter the Distradlion of my Mind; if you have any Compassion left for me, whose Compassion for you has undone me, send me a Letter of your Truth; pretend at least to Constancy, and form, feme excuse for your Silence and long Neglect of all your Vows and Oaths, that I may not curse my Credulity, in a Man without Faith
and
- s
i *
%
^.
nd Honour: Cruel Refiedion, difkcuit Task, to think ill of the Man whom I once shave lov’d. Remove my Doubts and confirm my ' Pain, by telling me that you Love no more; for even that terrible Certainty would be less tormenting than the State of suspence; and it would be shorter, for it would immediately put an end to the Life of
Olympia.
%
^ ^ *
Olympia took care to have this Letter convey’d
by a particulat Friend, who was then going to Madrid, and promis’d to take care that it should certainly be deliver’d into the duke’s ovvn Hands. In a few Days after, it was all the News of Romei that the Duke of Lerma was in very great Favour and Power with the King hi Master, * which, added to his Silence, made Olympia conclude, that she was entirely bariish’d. from his Thoughts ^ which was confirm’d in about a month’s Time, by a Letter from the very Person who carried hers. Which inform’d her, that immediately upon his Arrival at Madrid. he had found Means to present the Letter to the Duke himself, • shut that all the Reply he had, was. Ah ' poor foolish Woman; wshich News threw Olympia into a Fever, in which she was in imminent danger of losing her Life. Her Husband, old Dibianchii omitted no Charge in the best Physicians to procure her Some Relief.
It is the Custom in Rome and all over y, that the eider Physician always takes Some young Student in Physic with him to his Patients j and there, by showing him the real
M a Symp
[ i<54 ]
symptgifts of Nature in every Distemper, re condles the Practice and the Speculation, explaining she latter, which Books only teach by the former; which a just Observation of the dis temper can only instruct them in. The old phy fician, whose Patient Olympia was, to this End brought constantly with him a young Student, who was every way Beautiful: His Hair was a delicate Yellow, and hung in Ringlets upon his Shoulders, the Down was but just come on his Chin, his Eyes were a Sprightly Blue, his Stature inclining to Tall, his Shape fine, and his Mien agreeable. The Charms of this under Gradua|: e were more esteftual in the Cure of Olympia, than all the Prescriptions of the old Physician; she mended apace, but the ill Effect of that was, that the lovely Student came no more. Now’ she, in her turn, applym herself to the Governant, and beg^’d her Assistance in the Satisfaction of a Passion much more violent than that she had entertaiffd for the Duke of Lerma: The Governant had been too active in the former Amour, to think herself Secure any other way, than by a perfect Compliance with all Olympias Desires; by which Means you may be Sure it was not long before they brought this Affair to its defir*d End. And Olympia, in the Arms of her new Lover, Soon forgot the Infidelity of her old one; So easily can a Woman pafs from the Violence of one Passion to that of another.
L E T[
[
TETTER V
'A Defence of M A H O M E T.
A Paradox.
? - f
isfil tarn di^ciky tamque occultum, quod non dieendo
fiat Probabile.
Abdulla Mahumed Omar to Eben Mecca, Health., the i$th of the Month Moharram, in the Tear of the Hegera 10^4.
• '
IT was a fust Observation of the Sage Muly
Ijhmael hen Solomon that the Prudent and Wife read little and think much; for indeed as there is no end of writing of Books, So that Man who gives himself up to the reading all that comes out. Squanders away his Time in the idle amiisement of other men’s Thoughts, which would be much better employ’d in growing familiar with himself, and weighing his own Reflections as he ought; or in taking care of his Affairs; and I can’t but think that our Arabians have done wisely in not translating the Books of other Nations into our Language, at least, that what they have done in this kind,, is contain’d in a very small compass. The Book which you Sent me by the faithful Caleb, against our great Prophet, confirms me in this Opinion i and I must needs tell thee, that you
M 3 might
4 ^
*
C 3
might have better employ’d your Hpurs, than in transsating it into Arabic. It is no new Matter to find a Christian Author railing at the great Prophet, and heaping together a company of false and Scandalous Ressedions, to render him and his Religion odious to their own People. The Author you Send me, indeed, Seems much the most fair and candid Enemy that I have met with among them i he has, to my Hands, confuted the lying Narrations of most
of those who before him have written on the
* ', ^ 'r * -
Life of Mahomet; but yet there remains So jnuchranepur dressed up in abundance of Falsehood, that I can’t help Sending you a few cursory re fle<stions upon what he has a^vanc’d^ for a full Answer to every Particular of his two Tracts would take up too much Time.
If ever you fall into Company with the Author, who you tell me is still alive, I would have you, as far as you dare venture in that Country, to urge to him what I shall here offer.
That Author is very much to be Sulpefted of Falsehood, who lays his Foundation on Such Tafts, the Truth of which it was impossible for him ever tp come at a certain Knowledge of; but when Such an Author becomes very particular in the most minute Circumstances of Things not capable of being known, it is an evident Demonstration, that Truth is the least of his Care. The Author you Send me is of this
•. • ‘ ^ ^ fc W ' ^ *
kind, and piakes it his bufiness tp pick up a pompany of Stories, equally foolish and Scandalous, frbm the ignorant Enemies of the great Mahomety whom he represents as a most Sagacious and cunning person, and not therefore like
Jy to expose either his Design or his Defects tq ' Such
[ i<57 i
sheh as could or would make use of them to prejudice that illustrious Character, wshich, as this Author contends, was his Aim to establish of himself in the World : Nay, this very Writer tells you, that he never So much as own’d the Cheat to Cadigha his Wife, whose Interest would have oblig’d her to Secrecy, but that by his frequent inculcating to her his Vifibns, she was, at last, convinc’d of their Reality. But how this Author came to know the private Conversation betwixt Mahomet and his Wife; and that his Slave Zayd Ebn Hareth embrac’d his Revelation merely to get his Liberty, would be worthy this author’s declaring to the World, lest at the same time that he is endeavouring to fix an Imposture upon Mahomet, he gives undeniable Proof of Forgery himself; or, at leash that he is a Retailer of Forgery; for this Information must either come from Friends or from Enemies, *
I mean this, not only of what I have mention’d, but of all that Stuff which he has heap’d together about the private Tranladions of Mahomet, before he got that Power to which he afterwards arriv’d. This Information, I say, must come either from a Friend or Enemy, * not from a Friend, for Friends never deliver Informations to the prejudice of a Friend, * if from an Enemy, he would do well to show how an Enemy could be admitted into Secrets, which could not, in common Sense, be confided to any but the Surest of Friends : Next, this Information must come either from a Mujfelman or a Renegado (for Such a one he Somewhere quotes) not from a Mujfelman, for the faithful Believer could never give information of things injurious to the Prophet, whom he believ’d deputed by
M 4
4
[ i ]
goi 'i if from a Renegado, I do believe this (Gentleman will not, in his own case, think Such a one a Sufficient Evidence against the s’aith which he professes; and if he wist not allow the et^idence pf one who has forsaken his Religion, and embraced jmahometifm, we have no reason to allow the Accounts of one, who has left us to embrace the Faith of the Chriftiam; Such Men generally endeavour to make themselyes agreeablip to those to whose Religion they are Converts, by blackning those whole Religion hey stave forsaken.
The Same may be Said of the Account this Author gives of Mahomeds making the Alcoran by the help of Bahirci^ a Christian Monk, and Abdollah Ehn Salem, a Perjtan Jew, * for tho’ he quotes frpni the Alcoran itself, that Mahomet complains pf his being accus’d by his Enemies at Mecca, that he had receiv’d Assistance in the forming the Alcoran from others; yet that is far from proving that those were the Men whom he mention’d, for it is not very likely that the Excellence of the Arahick Language should be derived from two Foreigners, a Syrian and a Per‘% Jian: But he Says this was well known at Klecca, ^ 'which is an Affirmation without Proof; and, by consequence, Sufficiently confuted by a Denial.
It is certain and obvious to every Man, that knows anything of the World, that eminent Merit cari never appear in the World, without raising Enemies; and therefore it was no Wonder that Mahomet had his Share of them in this City of his Nativity, prof>hets seldom meeting with ho four in. tfeir own Country', and therefore, tho’ I should grant that these things were the Tittle
yattl? pf the great City of Mecca; yet I car'
'■' " ' "
\
[ i(j9 ]
*
see no great Advantage this Concession will be to this Author, since the Tittle Tattle of a Town is but a very fallacious Foundation for an Historian to build his Accounts on. There were found in Jerusalem (according to the Accounts which the Christians themselves give us) miscreants who call’d even Jesus himself a Wine bibber, and Said that he cast out Devils by the Power of Belzehub the Prince of Devils; yet Sure this Author will not allow those Blast phemies against that holy One, to be Sufficient for an Enemy to insert as Truth, in any History he should think fit to write of the Life of that Prophet of the Christians. Thus I might go thro’ most, if not all the Fads related by this Author, • but I think this is Sufficient to prove, that little Regard is to be had to whatever he delivers, since there’s little reason to suppose that he has taken more care of Truth in them, than in what I have made my Remarks upon; I shall therefore turn my Considerations to remove the Load laid upon Mahomet by this Author, as a Venter of an Imposture; that is, of delivering a new Religion prejudicial to Mankind, as the Revelation of God, which vas yet his own Invention, to promote and gratify his Ambition and Lust, • for this is the Sura of the Charge brought against him by this Author. Before I come close to this Point, I must beg the author’s Leave to endeavour to Set him right in his Notions of Some Particulars, in which he is certainly very erronious or very igno. pant; I mean, his Notion of his Ambition and Jiis Luft; As for his mounting up to Power, by advancing of his Doctrine, that was absolutely necessary for the promoting of that Doctrine, and fp was, justly Speaking, the Means and not the
'' ^ pad
[ lyo ]
End of his Aim and Desire. Thus Moses could not ested thedeliverance of the Children o^ifrael, but by alsuming the Power of their Leader and Head, the Maker and the difpenser of their Laws j yet Sure no Man ever yet upbraided him 'with Ambition, as the End and Design of his carrying the Children of Israel out of Egyph since without that Power he could not fullfili that Mission upon which God had Sent him. And thus it was in the Cafe of Arabia which being divided into many Tribes, who had frequently War with each other, Mahomet had no way of uniting them into one Body, and of fixing his Religion among them, but by making himself their Head or Leader, which Necessity Sufficiently clears him from the Imputation of Ambition.
. As for his Lust, which this Author makes another Motive of his stirring and promoting his new Religion, I cannot See the least Ground in reason for it; and all that the Author gives, is because he had one and twenty Wives; or, at least, fifteen. This Author is born in a cold Country, and because the Laws and Customs of that Place oblige the Husband to have but one Wife, he attributes the having more to a sinful Lust, it has always been a use in most of the hotter Countries, to have a Plurality of Wives i and Nature irself Seems to have establish’d this; for whereas there are more Males than Females born in a colder Climate, there are more Females than Males born in those Regions nearer the Sun, as is plain from this, that there is no want of Females, tho’ every. Man have more than one. Whatever this Gentleman
may make a Sin, it plain that Poligmy was
never[
[ 1
<nevet thought one in the purer Ages of the World, even according to that Account which we find in the Bible of the Christians, for to that I all along refer, and not to the Alcoran, because I know the latter is of no Authority with my adversary, Jaccb had not only two Sisters to his Wives at the same time, but allb went in to his Maid Servants, and begot Children upon them, without any Imputation of Lust. What does this good Author think of David? a Prophet confefsm, and a King according to God's own Heart; besides. Michal and Merab., he had, before his coming to be King, Abigail, the very recent Widow of old Nabal; and after he was King, three hundred Wives and Concubines, without being upbraided and reproached with Lust, * nor was he ever found fault with on account of Women, lave only in the Business of Uriah) where both Lust and Murder met together. Nor did the Christian Dispensation put an End to the lawfulness of Poligamy, or deliver any Laws or Precepts against it; nay, it may be deduced fi-om the Christian Bible, that the primitive Christians had the Same Cnftom, else this Injunistion had been very Superfluous, Let a Bishop be the Husband but of one ivfe. But, in truth, the confining of Men to one Wife came frorn the Pagan ko r mans) whose Custom being to marry but one Woman at a time, and they having conquered So vast a Part of the then known World, fixed their Laws and Customs among all the Nations which they Subdued to their Empire.
Had this Author prbv'd that Mahomet grati sym his Lust by a promiscuous Copulation, that jie djd, upon all Qccafions, indifferently go in
%
I lyz ]
to, and pofsess whatever Woman came in his Way, and allow’d the Same in his Followers, he had done Something towards making good his Charge of Lust against him, * but to condemn him for a limited Poligamy, only because it was the Custom of a northerly People to have no more than one Wife, is a Proceeding as whim’ steal as unjust; and it is still more unjust to draw this consequence from it, that his first and chief Aim and Design, in his great Undertaking, was to gratify that Lust; from which, and from the Charge of Ambition, having So evidently deliver’d him, I shall proceed to put his real Design in a just and fair Light.
Whether Mahomet were really a Prophet or not, I shall not in this Place examine; that will best appear by the great End of his Undertaking, and the wonderful Accomplishments thereof; for it will be ^ difficult Matter to conceive how a Man, from a private Station, in ipight of all the Opposition he met with, .should arrive at that great and indisputable Power of uniting a divided Nation, compos’d of distinct Governments, into one Body; and of overturning and extirpating that false idolatrous Religion, which prevail’d in all the East Parts, at his Appearance, without allowing that his Actions were concluded by a particular Indulgence and Care of Providence itself.
In the midst of that darkness of Idolatry, which was Spread all over his Country, Mahomet was the first, who, either by the extraordinary
Strength of his Reason, or a particular Inspiration from Heaven, arriv’d at the Knowledge of one eternal God the Creator of all Things, and to whom only our Adoration was du; and it
oou|4
. [ 173 ]
could not be without a great deal of Pain, that he Saw his Countrymen all lost, in a Way that must be So displeafing to that God, who has everywhere, and in ail times, declar’d himsels a Hater of the Worshippers of Idols. What should he do to put an end to this Wickedness?? had shown him that there was little Hope of a Remedy to this Evil from the Christians either of Ethiopia, or those few Arabian Christians, who were fettled among them. The most that had ever been attempted by the Ethiopians, was now and then to assist the latter with their Armies, against their Pagan Neighbours; but no Endeavours had ever been us’d by either, to convert them from their Idolatry; and, indeed, their Lives and Conversations, and those Pagan Corruptions and Superstitions, which they had receiv’d into their Faith, together with the Divisions that reign’d among them, and render’d their Religion So uncertain, and often contradidory, made them the most unfit People in the World for Such an Undertaking, and had drawn, upon them the Contempt of the Idolaters; and where there is Contempt, there can never be an Influence strong enough to produce or bring about So great a Work. All Hopes therefore being cut off from their neighbouring chri^ians, Mahomet must either have given over his strong Desire of rescuing his beloved People and Countrymen, or be oblig’d to Seek among the remoter Christians for Relief. During this time, he made it his Business to inquire feriolifly into the original Principles of the Christians; and was therefore instruded by Bahira in the Doctrines of Jefm Christ, which he
always admir’d as most divine Speculations.
But
I d4 1
But when he came to confider, that for, at leasts two or three hundred Years, those who callm themselves Christians, had entirely forlaken those Doctrines, and mingled So much of heathenism in their present Religion, that to have follow’d any of them, would have been only to change one Idolatry for another; he found that the original Book of the Christians, which they call the New Pejiament, consssted of the most exalted ‘ Morals in Nature, and Several other Particulars, whence the Succeeding Christians had deduc’d many Articles of Faith, which they had made more essential to believe, and of greater conse quence to be maintaiffd, than the moral Institutions that were given them in the Same Book for their Practice; and that in the End, these cre denda, or Articles of Faith, had engross’d the Minds of all the Christians, and So divided them into Parties and Factions, that each Side gave the contrary to the Devil. So that had he had an. Inclination to have apply’d himself to the Christians, it would have been impossible for him to have known which Party to have chosen, with that Certainty, which seem’d necessary on Such an Occasion; the only means he had left, was to make choice of the moral Doctrines of jesus Christ; and recommend them to his People, in Such a manner as might make them agreeable unto them. And this leads me to the Doctrines of Mahomet.
In. the Setting forth which, I shall make use of the Words of this very Author, which are these:
“After he had gotten these nine disciples, Some of which were the Principal Men of the City, he began openly to publish his impos!
!
%
[ 175 ]
ture to the People of Mecca in the 44th ‘‘ Year of his Age; and publicly to declare himself a Prophet Sent bs God, to reduce them from the Error of Paganism, and to “teach them the true Religion. The first “Doctrine that he propagated among them, was. That there was but one God, and that ‘‘ he only is to be worshipm; and that all Idols. were to be taken away, and their Worship utterly abolished; and that those that say “God hath Sons or Daughters, or that there are any other Gods associated with him, are V impious, and ought to be abhor’d.”
Before I come to this first Doctrine itself, I can’t but take Notice of the oxd Impofiure i by which, I suppose, he means a Falsehood or Forgery, which Mahomet advanc’d for Truth. But he very oddly gives this for an Instance of the Forgery, that the great Prophet establish’d for his first Principle the Unity of the Godhead; And does this christian Declaimer against ma hometifm really think this Principle a Forgery? if So, he is rather an Advocate for Polytheijm^ and not for Chriji, who preach’d, that
there was but one God as well as Mahomet; So blind has his Zeal against us made him. But perhaps he may say, that the Word Impofiure relates to his Pretensions pf being a Prophet lent from God to abolish Idolatry; but whether Mahomet was a Prophet, I shall not in this Place dispute; yet Sure I am, that the abolishing Idolatry, and the Setting up the Worship of the one true God, among a People lost in the first, and unknowing of the latter, was an Errand worthy of a Mission from Heaven. I am likewise Sure, that Mahomet did establish the
Wpr
t IT's ]
Worship of one God amongst us, and So esteflu * ally abolishm Idolatry in these Parts, that it has never risen again in any Shape amongst us Sot above one thousand Years; whereas Idolatry So Soon got footing again among the Christians, that the prevailing Part of them condemffd the Icomclafts as Heretics, only for breaking or destroying the Idols that were crept into the Christian Churches.
Well, we have gain’d this Fundamental Point of all Religion, even by the Concession of an Enemy; So that whatever Falsities are built upon this Foundation, our very Enemies do allow that the Foundation itself is an eternal Truth; but the other Parts of the Doctrine of Mahomet (excepting those Injundions of extirpating Idolatry, where ever his Religion prevail’d) consists of the Moral Duties that are to regulate our Actions towards one another; and that these are recommended and enforc’d with a wonderful Warmth thro’ the whole Alcoran, is what has been acknowledg’d by the greatest of our Enemies, tho’ oftentimes wrapped up in Parables and Allegories, according to the Manners of our People, who delight in that Way of Speaking j nor would have been touch’d with any other, as this Author might have known, if he had understood our Customs and Manners, as well as fomo of his Neighbours have done, in one of whom I find this Account.
As for the Arabians, if you inquire into their Books, yotill find nothing hut unniatural Metaphors, Similitudes and pibions. tsheir Alcoran is of this Kind; and Mahomet declares that he made it so, that it might be underfiood 'vcnh less difficulty, and leave a more lafiing Impyejjim If this Author had
knowm
[ d7 ]
known this, he would not have made Such a Stir about Mahomet s Journey to Heaven, whidi is one of these Allegories here mcnrio Sd. AP horack) which fignisses Lightning, is oniy Lloorght^ which moves as Swift as Lightning;? u Ladder of Light, by which he and Gast el S cended up to Heaven, was Contemplate n, »7 which we pass thro’all the Heavens up tc' n ^ Throne of gqti; and the wonderful Cock, Wiicie Crowing God took delight to hear, and whicis Man never heard or regarded, was the Prayers of the Just; and So on to all the rest, which have full as easy an Explication.
I know, that he urges that one Perjtan Author will have the whole Alcoran to be understood literally; but can See no reason why he. should deliver that author’s Opinion as a general Tenet of the Muslims; or why he should deprive us of the Benefit of Metaphor and aue' gory, to which both he and most of the Chriff tian Authors are fain to have recourse, to Solve many Things in their own System from that absurdity, which else they would lie under: As in the Story of the Prophet, who brings in the God of Truth, consulting with his Spirits or Angels, who should go forth and be a lying Spirit in the Mouths of the Prophets of ahal And thus in the newvteflament they must plead the lame Excuse, when Chriji Says, he is a Door, a Way and a Vine, as well as when he Says that the Bread and the Wine are his Body and Blood, since from the rejeding the Metaphor in this last Cafe, has Sprung up a most notorious, 1 Piece of Idolatry among the Christians, as is acknowledg’d by this very Author; So that it shems but an equitable Request, that we should
N make
\
\ \
117^ ]
make use of the same Advantage of the Allegory and Metaphor to Solve the Difficulties and Seeming Absurdities, which otherwise our Syff tern might be chargm with, none of which are cither So great, or near So dangerous as that
^ which establishes a Doctrine that teaches a Piece
♦
of Bread or Wafer to be chang’d by the Words of a Priest, tho’ never So foolish, ignorant or wicked, into the God that made Heaven and Earth. This Author objects to Mahomet, that he pretended not to deliver any new Religion unto the Arabians, but only to revive that old one which God had revealed to Abraham, and Abraham deliver’d to Ishmael, the Founder of their Nation; and which had continued among them, till corrupted by the wickedness of Men into that Idolatry which he was now come to abolishi This Author would imply, That this Assurance of Mahomet was a Falsehood, and that he did deliver a new Religion, otherwise he would have been obliged to ha ve cleared Mahomet of his accusation of his being an Impjior, and only iriade him guilty of using Some pious Frauds to establish a Religion beneficial to his People, as he has done with Numa and Minos in Rome and in Crete, whom he makes good and great Men, notwithstanding their false Pretensions to have received their Laws and religious Precepts from Some heavenly Being j since by those Pretensions they made their Laws and Precepts go down with their Several People, So as to civilise them from that Barbarity with which each of them was infected. But tho’ this Christian Author be so favourable to these Heathen Legissators, he will not allow Mahomet to be as meritorious, tho’ the former establish’d Idolatry by their Laws,
and
1
S ^79 ]
and the latter abolish’d it, and fix^d on its Ruins the Adoratioii of the one true and eternal God Creator of Heaven and Earth; a Benefit greater to the Arahiam, without all manner of doubt, than that which Minos and Numa could bestow on the Cretans 2iriaeomans^ even in respect of this World, railing his Countrymen to a greater Empire in a few Years, than even Rme itself ever obtaiffdy as this very Author confeffesi
But this Gentlemaffs bare Assertion j withbut ahy Proof, will never be able to pafs with Men of Reafoni I would fain ask him what he calls
‘ f. ■ • r ’
Religion? Whether he confines that Word only to particular Modes and Ceremonies of Worships or will extend it to the Worship itself, and thole Puties which are dependant upon it? If he says the former, he will not only make the Religion of Moses new, as well as that of yefm Chrifi^ but even those Several divifions or Distinctions among the present Professors of Christianity, who differ in the Ceremonial Part of Religion very much from one another; and So may be call’d^ according to him, each in its Turn, a new Religion; nay even the Komijh Part of the Christians would be Split into more than tw’ o Religions ssnce the Ceremonies that belong, even to the Mass, are different aitiong the Dominicans from what they are among the rest of the Komijh Clergy. And thus, if the first Christians made use of any Cereinonies, they were, in Probability those mentioned in the Apofiolical Constitutions;; those we may allow to be So different from. those instituted by Mttfesfzs to deserve the Name ai Nevji But if that only be a new Religion which differs from the former in the objes of .Worship, and the Moral Duties inipos’d by it,
N 2. then
■ /
C
[ iso ]
then certainly neither that of Mofesy fior that of Jefits Christ, nor that of Mahometj were new Re -- ligions : That of Moses was no more than the Revival and enforcing by Laws that Religion, which Adam, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, ^acob and
profess’d, which was to adore one only Gody and him to love and obey with their whole Heart, and wshole Soul, and to perform thole Moral Duties, which the Necessity of Humane Society, and in that the Will of God impos’d upon Mankind. Thus Chrifi, if this Author will allow his Authority, tells us, that to love God above all things, and our Neighbour as ourselves, was the whole Law and the Prophets j that is, that Moses and the Prophets taught the Israelites a Religion which entirely conlisted in the Love and Adoration of one Eternal God, and an extensive Love of one another. And thus the Doctrine of Jefm himself was not new, but the same that Mfes had taught before, w; ith this, only Disserence, that our Moral Duties to out Neighbours were commanded with more Force than before j and this admirable and divine Rule Set down, by which the meanest and most ignorant Capacsty might know with the utmost Certainty when he ostended against these Moral Duties, and when not, as this; Precept plainly shows
Do not thou that to anothery iiohich thou wouldji M have another do umorihee.. Idolatry, that formerly had been So common a Vice amongst the was, at the Appearance of yefus, entirely abo lished in Judea; but that People were extremelj corrupted in their Morals, and a criminal Self-love having been long Spreacl among both Priest and People, there was nothing to be found bu Auarice, Kfipme, inju/ike oppref/ionj forpla
. cin^
♦
1
[ i8. ]
cing their righteousness in the rigid Observation of Some Ceremonials and Circumstantials in Religion, they had entirely lost its real Substance. To restore this Seems the whole Aim, drist and Design of the Mission of Chriji; for to that all his divine Doctrines plainly tend, which is Sufficient to show, that the Christian Religion, in its Foundation, was oiily the Reviving of that
of Moses.
The Bussnels of Mahomet was not only to enforce the Moral Doctrines, but also to establish the Adoration of one God; for the People, among whom it was his Lot to be thrown, were gone vastly astray in both, * it was therefore his Intent to revive the Religion of Ishmael the Founder of his Nation, and which he had learn’d from his Father Abraham, which was the Adoration of one God, And this is enough to prove, that Mahomet Said nothing but Truth, when he told the Arabians that he did not preach to them a new Religion, but only that old oncj which their Father Ishmael profess’d many Ages before.
By what I have Said, you will find, that I am not for recriminating upon the Author, or for following his Method in blackning his Law and its Founder; no, I am really of Opinion, that not only Mahomet, but Jefm Chriji and Moses also were Sent from God for the Benefit of Mankind. It is pretty plain, that the Mishon of afo fes was to the Israelites alone, and So far from being intended for any other Nation, that the Law about proselites made it difficult for a Stranger to be admitted into the Congregation of the Sons of Jacob. And it is. plain from the chris tians own Book, that the Apostles had Some
N 3 Doubts,
[ ]
Poubts, whether any but the ^ews were to 15c admitted into the Benefit of their new dispensation * upon a consult it was determiffd, That the Gentiles should also have the gospel preached unto them. What progress it made during the first three hundred Years, I have no Occasion to inquire. The Christians have taken Care to publish large Accounts of that Particular, but how true they are, I know not, nor is it much to my purpose, • but from the Chris * Authors themselves it is very evident, that as Soon as the Christian Religion became establish’d at Court, and was the Princess Religion, it retained very little of that Simplicity and Purity, which is So visible in the gospels. Pride Ambition, Auarice, Feuds and Fafiions, divided the Teachers of it, and immortal Wars were commenc’d by the Pens of the w^^hers of all bides, that triie Religion was Soon Sorgbt; and the Propagation of it remain’d chiefly in the Emperors, by excluding all from Places of Profit
or Trust thro’ their vast Dominions, but Such as
*
were Christians. Thus for two hundred Years longer their Confusions and Divisions increased, and will never be ended, till Some other great Prophet appear among ’em, who may put an End to their Disputes, and unite all Parties.
, In the mean time, that is, in the sixth Century of the Christians Hegera, Mahomet appear’d in our Part of the World, and Settled his Religion, extirpating Idolatry out of great Part of ajia, Africa Europe, in all which Parts the
Worship of the one true God remains establish’d • to this Day. And L am of Opinion, that there
will other Prophets arise in other Parts of the
s h V ^ - L.;. World,
[ i8j ]
World, who shall destroy what remains of Idolatry upon the Face of the Earth.
Here I must observe one thing, as to our author’s Proof of his own Religion in its Foundation, which is. That he observes, that the Christ tian Religion began not in a private unknown Part of the World, like Arabia, where mahomet*s Doctrine first appear’d, but in Judea, a noted Country, and then a Province of the Roman em' fire. This Argument is built on a childish Folly and Fallity. firit, What can be more childishly ridiculous than this Distindion of his of Judea from the rest of the World? As if every Nation in the World were not as much known to its neighbouring Nations as Judea could be to these Nations about it. He is pleas’d to say in one Place of his Book, That the Arabians were a cunning and acute People; tho’, indeed, he at last makes them very stupid, and extremely credulous. But after all that this Gentleman has Said, Judea was that unknown Corner of the then known World, as he would have Arabia to have been. The Jews were So much the Contempt of Mankind, that no body ever minded what they Said, or what they did: And though we should grant that the Romans had a Prator in Jerusalem, yet that does not Salve the fajfity of this Author, when he tells us, that it was a RA man Province, since it had at that very time a King of its own, Herod by Name, * but no ao man Province ever had a King at the Same time it was a Province, as is plain from all the Roman History, ♦ nor did the Residence of a ao man Magistrate in Jerusalem make the Affairs of that Nation any more notorious to the World, than hitherto they had been, else it had been
N 4 impossible
[ 1^4 ]
impossible that So many great and wonderful Miracles could be done in that manner, without being taken Notice of by any one Historian of that time, whether or Gentile. I urge not this to bring into doubt the Miracles that are Said to be done in that public Manner, but to show that the eves were So insignificant a People in the Eye both of the Romans and Greeks, that whatever transadions might happen among them, they were not thought of Importance enough to be taken Notice of by any one elfe. This is evident from a Roman Author that is yet extant, * I mean ^uflin, who gives a quite disterent Account of the Departure of the jf raelites ^xom Egypt, from that which we find in the Jiehretii Hijiory, • for ^ujun makes them to be cx pelpd and driven out of Egypt by the Egyptians themselves, because they were generally infeffed with the leprosy, which they apprehended might Spread to their own Countrymen, if they permitted that Scabby Race to continue among them. For my part, I am far from giving Credit to the Scandal of Jttftin; I only urge it to show that the Reman Authors either did not know the true History of that Affair, or knowing it, conteiiiffd it j either Way it shows that ^udea was not that conipicuous Country, which this Author contends it was.
To this weak Proof of his Cause, I shall add one fully as weak to prove the badness of ours. He Says, That the People of Meccarisjtxc prepaid to receive any Irhposture by their being fallen into a State of atheism, or a total renuii ciatipn of all Religion, * but by what Sort of Ratiocination he makes this out, I cannot guess: For to us poor Mortals of the Torrid Zone, it /., appears
I
• • «
[ i8j ]
appears a flat Contradidion to common Senie; and is as much as to Say, That those who are most against us, are most for us; that those who have no Faith at all, should be the most likely to be credulous; and that those should believe the Rewards and Punishments hereafter, who did not believe any Hereafter at all; that those should credit Mahomet's Assurance of his being Sent by God. who did not So much as believe a God. I would fain have this Learned Gentleman inform us how many of the Sadducees there were among the disciples of Chrifi; Qr Some o there Way make out this difficult Paradox. One Argument more against us I shall take Notice of, and then conclude.
He brings it as an Objeistion against the Doctrine of the Alcoran, that, contrary to the Doctrine of that Gospel of Christ, it enjoins War, and the destru(stion of our Enemies, for the Propagation of our Religion, and for that only. I might ask him indeed for what it might be done with greater Justice I fuppose he does not contend, that ail Manner of War betwixt Princes is unlawful, and against the Gospel; i thit be his Opinion, let him convince his chric tians of it first, who are almost always at War with one another. But not to defer my answer, till he has done that great Task, I shall try to vindicate Mahomet in this Particular.
What God has once commanded, can never be unjust at any time: Now Ms plain, that God commanded the ifraeutes to extirpate the Nations of the Land of Canaan for their Idolatry, and worffd a very great Miracle in the Execution of this Command, when he made the Sun and Moon stand still to yield jojhua Light
to
«
i
/
[i]
tb eprapicat that Slaughter of the Canamlti^ %rhich his vidorious Arms had begun.
Was not Saul rejected From the Crown of J rael for his Sparing Agag? Was Idolatry more hateful to God then, than it is now } wait leis odious to him in the time of Mahomety than in the time of Mojesy or of the Kings of limely 'wshose Nation, with themselves, were destroy’d for this Offence alone?
I grant, that there is nothing of this in the i^4)fpely nor was there any Occasion for it, because Power was not committed to the Hearers of it j nothing but Prayers and persuafions were their Weapons. Man was invited into the gof pel, but he refus’d the Invitation; and therefore Mahomet came with Power to force Men into his Religion, which Seems to be foretold in the uparable of the Marriage feast, to which the invited Guests did not come, - and therefore the Master of the Feast orders his Servants to go out, and force in the Passengers, the Blind and the Lame, till his Table was full. Mahomet
was in this foretold, and was one of the Servants
♦ ^
feut out to force in the Blind and the Lame; that is, the Idolaters, into the House of God, the heavenly Bridegrooin.
But then he will say. This shows, that the Morals of ths Gospel are much more pure and heavenly than those of the Alcoran. suppose I old grant this, I cannot See what Advantage that would be to any of the present Christians; for what is it to the purpose, that they have a amongst them a Book containing the most admirable Precepts of Moral Actions, calculated to make even a Heaven here on Earth, if truly observ’d i and yet which are never reduced into
pra<stice?
[ i Sy ]
^ra^icp? It inust be Said, either they c|fihpt
duce them into Practice, or they \vill not; if they cannot, then they declare they ar Mere Speculations, and incapable of Practice, which indeed is accusing God of Injustice in prelcribing such Laws to his People, that he knew their Nature was not capable of performing, • but on the other hand, if they can, and will not, that is a plain rejeding of that Gospel that they own was Sent to them by cioi himself. An Impiety that, I hope, no tint Mujfelman will ever be guilty of. That the pres^nt Christians are no! the Disciple’s of Christ, though' they stsurp his Name, is plain from the Mark that Christ gives of his disciples; By this Shall all Men knoih that ye are my difeipksy if ye love one another. Now, in all the twenty Years that I formerly Spent among the Infidels in Europe, I never could find this Mark, even in any one of the Teachers qf tstc Christians, * pade, Ambition, av^^rice, Revenge, Calumny, detrasiion, Envy zvid Malice, mn ffkef the whole Sed; They are all warm and lio|: a bout Speculative Points in which they will never agree, but all remiss and cold in the Duties of Action, tho’ they all agree in them. And here I take my Leave of this Author, notwithstaiiding there are many things remaining, which are very
disputable, tho’ he pronounces all certain' afid undoubted.
I have not quoted my Authors, because having them not by me, I am forc’d to depend upon my Memory ^ and yet I dare believe, that I am never out in their sense; thom may perhaps have err’d Sometimes in their Words. I long for your Return to the happy Climate oi Arabia, where Nature Smiles in her odoriferous Prodstds, and
Heaven
»
[ i88 ]
#
Heaven is indulgent in the Continuance of his Truth among us. The gei of Abraham., the God - of Ifmaely and the God of Mahomet cohdud thee
Safe home.
% >
- •
dt
TO
CEL I N D A
'I
V
I.
%
DO not, Celinda, fear my Flame,
Nor dread my guiltless Passion;
It is, I Swear, as free from Blame,
as^tis from Alteration.
II
it does no Solid Favours want To feed the constant Flame, *
Though" not one Look, or Smile you grant,
|. It will be still the same.
III
The Sun, you See, without Supply,
Is always bright and glowing.
Whilst earthborn Fires consume and die.
Fresh Fuel none bestowing,
IV
[isp]
- fk.
;; *■ “*; ?•# '!• ■•■ * ■ * V
This Just the Disterence is betwixt Me and a vulgar Lover,
self iiiterest_^?with his i^^mes is inixt, f f ^
. I yours alone endeavour. - N". : 3
V
• •
i' '
bow your Guardian angel loves,
whose hovering Wings protect you |
Who by his gentle Care removes
All Ills'th^ would afili^ yom I SC i
• ' ’ • -*'■
-• «• K V » • ' * ' * > ‘ ^ • j.
. ...... - VI ' '■ ' '
Nightly defends your Soft Repose, ’
Makes Cares and Dangers fly it;
Your balmy bosom guards from Woes,,.. That would disturb yoiir ^iet. ' |
i ^ ' .A, ' •
VII. ' ’ '
- ' ■ \ y.
Yet for this Care no equal Hire
He ever bids you give’hini, .1
All the kind Genius does require' ' '
only to believe him.
V
4 « • * N :.
« - s *
4 •
i
f
C lyo ]
'■ • A ’ -- * '' .ri
*
« ' • * y “* ' '
B A LB A b
w
* 9
T O'
imrs. CATHARINE FLEMING
....... ■
■ TIIF. ' • ■'• '"'i
'• ■ i ’ -• -.. ‘ V,. - ■ '
Lord digbx's in W A R WI G KS H IRE, '
I
The T une : To all you. Ladies nm at Land.
■f
O ^ • J V
I.
TO
My Verse I wiiite6ii#y;
For what shoum Wit or verse do here Now Fleming is away 7 Whilst scud.more in the Country lies,
.Wetee here no Ust of hearjs or Eyes..
With a say la, hy taild'y ’&c.
■ ■ ■ •
»
II
At Comat round an ample Board,
Our Gallants past their Time;
Content or not Contends the Word,
A Language most Sublime I But great Expense ^^e Save of Parts,
By Hearts and Cliibsj and Qubs and Hearts.
With a fuy la lay hy c.
III
[ Ipl ]
HI.
>
Our Theatre of useful Joys,
(Through Bens andshakefpears Wit)
Breeds now but one continu’d Noise Of Laugh'from Box and Pit.
Whilst in the Air light Tumblers fly o’er Man and Boy two Stories high.''
With a fala, la, la, la, e
^1
^ I w •. -
IV
The Masquerades by Show divert.
But no more Humour know.
No more engage the Head or Heart, ’
Or more enliven’d grow.
Than if from all the Signs in Town, '
Nuns, Turks and Saracens, came dowiji With a fa, la, la, lot, Id. cv.

V
leqnis wasted o’er the Seas, '
Alas I why went he henice?
Beneath whole Roof we met at Ease, ’
And Softly whifper’d Sehl^
But there’s a Plot divulg’d from sam
And cellamar/s a Fool in Grain.
jvith ay, la. Id. la, Id. c,
VI
That Buglifi opera’s are Sung,
Is owing to your Flight L And that each instrument’s stt wrong, '
Which us’d to give Pelight.
Thai
(
[ 191 ]
Then come and our low Genius raise,
Who ssgh for you in moving Keys.
With a fa, la. Id. Id. Id. c
■ - ■ • ’
Our Officers (of old refin’d.
And courtly to the Fair,
In whom both Lpve and Spirit join’d To form the double Snare)
Now only show what they’d be at.
By fierce Cockcade and ibdlly iiat.
With 2k fd. Id. Id. Id. Id. ca
■. ' 4
VIII
- * ■... ■
.... ^ .D ^ i
Our Senators upon the Sacks,
As Party guides, debate;
And if they one another vex.
No matter for the State;
whilsf Peace or War is not the Doubt, ’
But who’s in Place, or who’s kept out.
With afd. Id. Id. Id. Id. c,
IX
1
The Commons all their Work have done
And now will Soon be gone;
To Shillings two they’ve added one.
Which lay their Land upon.
But whilst th’unwilling Grant they fix, '
Theji growl out three, and drink but six.
With a fd. Id. Id. Id. Id. c
_ Tour
• .N
ft
%.
C ipi 3
*
%
tout Antiquary still proceeds To Ipy through Ages past s And if it too your Fancy seeds.
To know what s found at last.
We ve eight square Keys to saxo/i locks And Alfreds apopledick Boxi
With a fa lay hy lay lay Ci
In Street of Arlington I Spend Each Week one pleasing Day ^
And in the Evening with my Friend At Serious 0/nhre play.
But when I should • be mindful, still I think of you, and lose Codifies With a say lay lay lay lay ct
XIL
'^ • *
Thus whatfoe’er we do or Say
This Ballad does rehearse:
How dull we are, how oddly gayi
ive told you all in verse;
Unless I to the Court shoffd corner
But of the Court no more but Muiri**'
With a fa, la, lay lay lai
m,
l
C >94 1
■ w(ftww wwi
//<%\‘ Ms /ifa\ NM an Va ia van van ta aa aa Va an Va Vas

THE
/ •
V;. i :
X •
OF
AUMILLUS,
« ♦. •*
AND
* * -
The S T A T U E of r E ii U S.
y - - -• - -- - — - - L— — : -: - ■ ■ --. - --
, By 7i K I L L I G R E TV.
By Phidias Hand the Cyfrian Queen was rais’d,
Andin apollo’s Sacred Temple prais’d: Next to the Dame, for whom the Piede was done. Divinely bright the Parian Statue shone :
The wondering Multitude around it throng.
And reverend Worship pay in .pious Song. Whilst thus the Crowd the beauteous Form ador’d, whose little Souls Some trifling Boon implor’d, Sublimer Thoughts aumilius’bie<l& inspir’d,
He Saw, then lov’d, and more than heav’n dessr’d, The Gods wou’d breath into that Marble Frame Celestial Warmth to rheet his fiercer Flame.
Wild was his Wish, as vaiii were all his Prayers, ^ The Gods were deaf to Sigh & & T ears, / As are the Great to the unhappy’s Cares: b
His
f
f
K
[ 195 ]
His Frenzy rag’d, as his fond Hope grew lesst I must, ye povi/ers, or die, ofelse postess r > stnee, too cruel, ye’ve refus’d to blelsj j Almighty Love shall ease my dying Moan,
And ardent Kisses animate the Stone.
This Said, he wdng’d with eager Passion flew, ^ And round her Neck his Arms impatientthrew, > There kiss’d and press’d, and to the Image grew,) Till all in tranc’d, he dreamed the Marble watm. Then bath’d it o’er with love’s luxurious Balm ^
Nature exhausted by delufiv^joy,
Sunk at her Feet was fouri’dihe pahtshg IBOW. The envious Priests, who firststhe Scehe difclos’d^ Ten thousand Deaths in various Shapes propos’dj Till one more wise, not merciful, there was.
Said, As bis Crimes did e’enthe Damned surpassj The unerring Oracle shoi^d explor’d / To learn the Will of heaveii’s ostended Lordi approv’d his counsel, and his person cholej As their Ambassador with Speed he goes;
And ail the charri^r in his Looks he wearsi T Whilst to the Shrine he the black Deed declarest Then waits an answer with down cast Eyes j
When to him thus the Delphian God replies;
His Crimes Severest Vengeance has deserv’d; And therefore ’tis his .List must be preserv’d, doom’d for this Statue evermore to burn.
To dote, and Sue, and sigh, without Return;
No Tortures equal he in Hell can prove.
This is the Sentence of all knowing yove.
If then, fair Maid, the Angry pow’rs abpv^ cou’d find no Thunder for presumptuous Love, By half So hot a Passion, fond and vain.
Ah 1 think, with Heaven, my Sin Sufficient Pain And since for Love, you say, I must not live.
At least permit a Wretch to wish and grieve.
O 2 THI
0
C 3
, «
THE
GARDEN
O P
A D O N IS:
O R,
LOVE to no Purpose.
Omnia Vincit Amw^ — ■
^ #
LETTER I.
To the false Boafier.
ungenerohi Touth^
Because you are dcnym my Arms,
you proudly would pretend you never lov’d, and will own a fals hood rather than the Force of my Charms. The address, on any Score, was highly criminal; but is stwas bare
Pretence,
C 197 3
Pretence, the atfront^s unpardonable. Had you still pleaded Love, it would have icflenm my resentments, for Love will force his Vastals on to do a thousand indiscreet indecent things, fills the Imagination with Desires and Hopes equally extravagant and vain > in these wild transports reason is contemffd, as the impertinent Allayer of our Joys. love’s brighter Rays gild all the Spacious Way, "he places before the raptured lover’s Eyes Soft Languiihments, tender amusements and exalted Pleasures; till dazzled with the shining Scene, he lees not the Snare beneath, tho’ Guilt and Shame lie ready to involve him, * but shon as awaken’d from the fond glittering Dream by full Possession or Severe Despair, he lees the Folly of enthufiastick Dotage, thinks he’s grown wile, and vows to love no more; nay, vainly would evade what once he glory’d in. Had Love, infatuating, irre listless Love, been urg’d in your Defence when you was So justly repuls’d; I might have pardon’d So kind a Mistake, and laid the Blame on Fate; but since you Say twas only Guriofity, know 1 can np more believe you than forgive
you.
#
OJ
[>98]
LETTER II
■ ■ L ■ ■.,..
r
V te. To the same,
ttir ^ forced to tell you, that
V V ' d See thole that would make a Virtue pf Necessity, and have' the results of despair pass for. those of Prudence, have as little Sticcefs in the Attempt, as t^tith in the Pretence? And to intimate your Passion was not real, argues your Mapners in' the Retreat, : a littfe as your Modesty in tlieaddrestl 5 and is the only Way you pould have took tp naake yoiirselfeternally cdioiis. but the Evasson has no Force witteme : Too well I m skilfd in Love, to ie deceived, toe conscious of my to th^tik they Wanted Force
to conquer your easy reast. Ye yes, you loved, aird would at firsh in vain, shave hid your weakness; but wa.tch|lil I Spysh, the iieiv i)awn of infant;,; Passion glow on. your Cheeks,, and Sparkle in your Eyes : I Saw you straggling wstli the growing Fiarae, as if your better Genius iirged you to Suppress it, telling you "’twas guilty madness, and unpitied Ruin : But maugre all the threatening Dangers, you would still love on, doted on my shape/ufc y Mien, niy Voice, while everything I Said and did, gave you unequall’d pleasure. In your'hind faithful Lies I read the filent Secrets of ypur Soul p whene’er Philander kiss’d or pressm my Harid, - your very Locks pronounced you thought him blesssh, and wish’d
^ yourself the dear acc^pt^d Man. The bussness
V ' ‘ of
[ ]
of your Life was to oblige me, and make your Sell beloved; and every Art you used to veil your tenderness, discover’d it the more to my discerning Eyes; for stifled Sighs, too frequent Blushes, and diforder’d Looks, confess’d your Passion. Thus many harmless Soothing Months were past, before your bashful Tongue, or trembling Hand, durst boldly own the Lover. these nicer Bounds once broke, you talk’d of nought but Joys and Raptures, with Such kind Ardour press’d me in your Anris, and promised Such transporting Pleasures, 4s might have melted any Breast but mine; and when repuls’d, you’d urge your Suit as Lovers do, and only Lovers can. Snatch me again into your eager Arms, press. me to your panting wishing Bosom, and Swear I Should not leave you till I had made you bless’d. No common Passion could excite Such a wild fondness of forbidden Joys, one calm Ressedlibn on my Fate had damp’d a nioderate Flame for ever j but yours was Frenzy all, and now despair has summon’d back your wandering reason, you would disown your former Follies. But why should you evade the Truth to me, to me, the unhappy witness of your tender Faults, and almost guilty Transports? impose upon the World what Faith you please, but do not grate my Ears with cold excuses, and unmanly Falst hoods, in denying that Love which could be your only Hope for Pardon; for know our Sex forgives no Faults So easily as those which Love commits.
o4 LETTER
I
[ zoo ]
<
LETTER III
To A MINT AS.
I Wonder, my Amintas, what Construffion you put on my Fondne^ for your Company; it is not, I assure you, to indulge my Love, but defign’d as a Remedy to suppress it; that by frequent Conversation the Intimacy may take off the Novelty, and, by a natural result, weaken the Charm: But I find this Conduct don’t conduce to my Cure, Sp you may stay away as long as you please; and assiire yourself, when ever I Send for you, it won’t be in order to hate you; for I find, do what I will, that Time is not yet come; and pray, when you see me next, tell me you hope it never will; and if I could really believe you, ’twould be ttie greatest Inducement in the World for me to release you. But don’t let this negligent Raillery be thought a Design to put you on your Guard, or to heighten your Passion, for I alfure
you, I am npt So indisterent as I make for.
•» •»
i. : e - ‘ ^ - • • •
I
* s - ■
"< •*
-- .' ^’
*
N
L loi J
%
^ ^
*,,. * '.. ft ^ >
LETTER IV
• >
%
• ^ %
*
To a Lady upn Temale Virtue.
f f’" ^
■y
Madam.
9
SOME Reflection on what we.discoursm
last Night; convinces m there is not III the universe a more amazing Prodigy than an excess of Love and Virtue in one Breast; and I think he gave a true Definition of humane Nature, who Said coldness of Constitution, and, consequently, of Desires, was the Source of all Virtue. Yet we flatter ourselves into aii Opinion of our own ■ Prudence; and dullness pr Aversion pastes with us for that, which upon a strong Astault we should not be able to maintain. Defect of Temper, Some disgust to the perspn, or too frequent or near Approaches; which lessen Curiosity, or too great Difficulty of possessing; Any one of these weaken the Force of Pashon, and abate the eagerness of Pursuit. While we, as if reason were a Stranger to Nature, persuade ourselves these Circumstances have no Influence on us, anci our Conduct is the Ested of pure Virtue, Temperance, Fortitude, and I know not what. But tell me where is that Prude who can boast of Conquest, where there III Strength of Inclination, Warmth of Constitution, and the favour -. ^
able Minute of powerful Temptation from the
^. per[
[; ]
persiiafive adored Object one all dessres, the other all desirable, here we must yield or ssy, dis in vain to parley. How few, how very few, charm’d with the transports of approaching bliss, can leave unfinished all their eager Wishes, if no iiiix with this Height ^ of Passion??
let our Sex be cautious, if there can be Such a. thing in Loye; • and where there is no Love, efis neediest. So I may as well be filent; elle methinks I could recommend a world of Discretion and Prudry to them. Pray donst let my Lady 7^ — — see this Letter, you know shest Lo censorious..
% ■,. -- - ■
LETTER V
To the too cautiotfs Lozier,
f A H, cruel Youth, you may be Sure I want jix, your Pity, since of one who too Surely hates me Im compelfid to ask it. But, oh, you’d have your barbarous usage pass for Discretion, and Sacrifice me to your inhumane Prudence. Where is the tenderness you once ex press’d, the kindest, dearest Youth that ever talk’d of Love, that now you can thus unconcernedly see me perish? Oh, your Cruelty dis trads me; I beg you, by all your Hopes of future happiness, show Some Pity, and prevent my Ruin; not thus exasperate my Soul, till an ungovern’d Fury expose my Folly to the World.
The
r
0
[ ioj ]
The most extravagant fondness, and exalted Raptures of fiditious Lovers, with which Poets have adorffd Romances, are but faint Emblems of my mightier Passion: And by that Heaven which awes my desperate Hand with a religious Guard, did not Piety forbid, Fd fall, this fvioment, a Victim to your Cruelty, rather than live to bear the curse of your Neglect, for ’tis better not to be, than to be miserable.. Oh, do not dally with a Passion which is grown too powerful for reason; but by Some auspicious Care, haste and Sooth this Frenzy of my tortur’d Soul, lest,, if provok’d too far (Spitei of virtuous Ties) I may do a Deed, which, if not more thai Humane,, will mteve your Pityh^.dartle that stubborn Breast, which now no Prayers, no Tears can move, make all my sighing Friends curse the dear Man I love, whom with my latest. Breath I bless, and recommend to Heaven with
V • •
my expiring. Sighs. Oh think you see me weeping, iighing, dying at your Feet, and take me. to your Mercy : Heaven will reward your pious Care, and I with a thousand endless'thanks acknowledge you the dear preserver of my Life; and tiio’ the Favour is extorted from you, and an unwilling Pity Saves me ^ yet i’ll esteem it, as if with the Hazard of your own dearest Life you, had ransom’d mine. I have try’d a thousand Ways, but nothing will afford one Mo, ment’s Ease, his you alone that can compose, these Distradions of my fond Suffering Breast. Let not 'my wild resentments be expos’d to the World by my Impatience at your Absence, but let me see you this Night, for till I dp I cannot rest. I do not ask your Love,
'that
[ i04 ]
that is not in your Power, Humanity is. I only beg you would do anything that may, make me think you do not hate
l^he ueretched
Musidora.
* "
LETTER VI
/
The AN SWE R.
4
Madam,
I Have not only Humanity, but So particular a Regard for you, that I read your Letter with the greatest Surprise and Concern. I think you’ll make me mad too, What would you have me do? Was I ever wanting in my Devoir and constant Attendance, till you commanded my absence without any Fault or Inclination in me? And when even again I have been admitted by your own Orders, and you confess’d 1 was belov’d, • yet, in a Rage, if I but kiss’d your Hand, tho’ with an Awe due to a Monarch only, strait you’d forbid me the Room, pursue me with a Billet never to approach you more: What Man on Earth can bear your damn’d Platonic Humours, to own you love to Distradion, ' yet I must not kiss you, touch you, nor Scarcely look at you? I wish Nicolitii were in ‘my Place, for faith I know not how to acquit myself in Such a fantastical
'’ Amour j
A
s »
]
Amour; nor can I for my Life help desiring to please you. There is Something entertaining in your novel Gondud; and since you, who was never in ah Error before, own your reason is now grown useless, and I command your Fate, send but the melsenger back this Moment, with an Alfcrance that I shall be received with com ^ Civility, and i’ll the next Moment fly to you, with all the tenderness due to your Complainings : But for heaven’s sake. Madam, doffc make yourself and me thus uneasy by your own Caprice. But why do I delay, and expostulate here, when I think the Moments Years till 1 See you, and See you easy?
Who am whatever you command me.
»
LETTER VII
To LORENZO.
Thou loveliest, dearest, and, I hope, faithful
est of thy Sex, haste to your Califiay and calm the Tumults your absence has rais’d in her long peaceful Breast; for if you can live two tedious Days and not See her, what has she not cause to fear? Two Days, ye Gods 1 a Century ' in Love, like mine; how have I wept, and figh’d, and wish’d in vain, to see my adored lorenzo?? you behold me in this gentle Scene of Sorrow, hear my Soft Murmurings and kind Complainings, you’d pity your poor Califia, fly to her Relief, Sooth her distress, and hush her
Griefs
[ io ]
Griefs on your dear tender bosom; for I feow' you cannot bear I should be in Pain; and to re compence what you make mefuffer. Swear a thousand times I have endear’d you by my kind Difi tress; and that, if possible, you love me more than even Thus, sure, will my dear lorenzo. to his mourning Califla, till he see her easy. See her bless’d r for while he Speaks to her, she is So. But tell me, thou all that s dear to me, how eou’d you live two Days, and never See me How cou’d you employ yourself without me those lovely. Eyes, that melting Voice, were only made for me. What 1 did you gaze upon the Crowd, talk'politicks, or read philosophy? !• thought long since we had lost all Taste of these dull Amusements, and could relish nothing but each other. Or did the envious Groves detain you but by what new Charm? For oft you have Swore, the pleasing Shades, the native Harmony of tiineful Birds, the fragrant Odours of delicious Flowers, and all the Beauties of the whole Creation, were centred in your beloved Califla and I believe you thought So. Oh, nct' ver undeceive me! your absenceshocks me; arid as you are Man, avert it Heaven, your Ardour may decline, and I may be abandon’d. But if, oh, I tremble at the Thought, it ever should be So, for Pity Sake do it; oh, do it gently, else your poor Califla dies that Moment. Soften the Rigour of my Doom, and stowly.bring my Ruin on; be Months and Years in taking your Farewell; glide, like Life, insensibly away, till Immortality o’ertake the Ceremony; for to less lasting bliss I can’t resign you; I cannot yield you to anothers Arms; to have her murmur Love and Soft Desire on your bewitching Bosom,

1107 ]
fom, Snatch ray warin Kisses from your lovely Lips, and taste the pleasure only due to me; Oh, stabbing Thought 1 Then haste my Love, sup press my Fears, Sooth isty Sorrows, and with your Soft Voice charm me to Peace, to Life to Love, to you, more dear than all. >.
I know you. think I love you, therefore can anything on Earth be worse natufd than not to let me see you all this tedious time? In vain you Swear you love me more than ever, while every Action shows you too careless, or too discreet. But oh, ye happy Men! your Softer Passions Seldom difcompose your Quiet; bufiness and Diversions make your easy Hours glide Unheeded on, while, we with painful Sighs find every heavy Minute hang like ‘ages on our anxious Souls. love’s but your Sport, the Pastime of your kisure Hours, only a Start of Passion reviv’d by Dreams or Drink,, and lost as Soon as those light Vapours vanish; the weak impref fion touches only on the senses; your Souls know nothing of the constant Languishinents, and delicate Movements which our Soft Sex indulge; The tender Sighs, endearing Wishes, the pleasing Pains, and Sad amusements, that wait on Love, like mine : For stis a Pashon So powerful, refin’d and unmix’d, as if my very Soul was Love, or Love my Soul; and, like its immortal Self, rolls on in endless transports of Surprising tenderness.’ Each Day, and all the Day you fill my Soul, where every, ni^ng thought’s So Soft, So very Soothing, as my evil Genius urged me on to Love and Ruin. But my better Angel keeps you there,; whispers you are unkind^ and I at last shall conquer and forget you. But why do I fiatter my Seif thus, tinless I could owe
my
[ io ]
iny Freedom more to my reason, and less to
my resentment? For now should you return (igh on my trembling bosom, and whisper sosc Tales of Love, I strait should melt; Ipite of my best resolves, and be again a stghing fond Believer. Ah! too well I know you will Soon be here, talk again of Loye^ and I be pleased to hear you. For, ah I tis Heaven when you Speak kindly to me, and I could listen to eternal Ages. But let’s both be wiser, stnce we know the fatal Consequence. Then let me conjure you, as you value my Repose j nay, I charge you by my Love, or if anything, even the Duty that struggles in my labouring Soul, is greater; if e’er we meet again, dare not for your Life give me one kind Word or Look, but pass unheedful by; and let us both, if possible, forget that e’er we lov’d. For ’tis Madness to indulge a Passion that must make us miserable — You See how 1 can talk now you are absent. I know you Smile now, and So may you ever
your impatient
C A L 1 S T A
LETTER VIII
The ANSWER.
%
/
WHY, lovely Charmer, do you upbraid
me with an Absence, which gives me So much Pain? You know I am obliged to move as
the
the Court directs,, * why So imich Talk of bc “ing miserable? Is it misery to fold Thee in my eager Arms, press thee to stiy panting bosoni, gaze on thy thousand Beauties, and hear thee peak with Eloquence of Angels? (i)h! Why am I barm one Moment from thee, and lose an Aee of Love? While in each Others Aritis we should be blessm, taste all the Dearnesses of mutual Pash ston, which only those who love like us Cast know; nor even thyself can utter, unless in murmuring Sighs, gentle jtouchesj and tender Lanr * guishments. Oh, extasylof Thought! my Soul is.on thc'wing, il sty this.moment to the filent, gro«a where last we jnet, there clasp, embrace " thee, fed allthe killing transports which thou a ’ lone canst give, and Love and Imagination, great, as mine, inspire; yet cannot really see tstee these three Days. But haste, 'ye envious Hours, bring;
me to mv Love, and let her not receive me with,
¥ _________________
the Sounds of Duty, Ruin, and those Foes of Love, * but with Joy take me to her Arms,. for to part can only make us miserable. I shall Set out tomorrow Morning; live only on thy dear Letter, till I breath on thy enchanting Bcr* fom. Till then, .thou dearer to me than Life,
Pariveeti
♦
E
[ iio ]
svr/ y yy// WV w yv^ y y yyv y<k
L E T T E R IX
To CLARONA.
♦;
YO U tell me in your last, you fancy I cannot
pass a Moment without thinking on the Duke of— — am pleas’d you should know how agreeable my Soul is to your Sentiments; for where his lovely Idea is once fix’d, not Worlds nor Ages can e’er remove it: he’s still as charming as when first ssghing on my tender bosom; he lov’d, and hop’d, like me; you know too well why we parted; but to one So truly sensible of his Endearments and Beauties, nothing can make him less amiable; he has still the Same Harmony in his moving Voice, tho’ he talks not Love to me, the. Same enchanting Smiley bewitching Look, tho’ squander’d away at random, or fix’d on Some happy Fair, who is now lov’d and charnvd as I was once; Oh that onc J a Word our Sex too often hates, and I for ever deplore. You See, dear Clarona, I am So far from condemning your Suspicion of my continued Passion, that I desire to confirm it by the following Lines, writ about two Months ago. To you my Soul would make known every Thought; and forgive me, if you find you can’t have one entire.
COME gentle Power, that pitys Love,
^ Suppress this fond Extreme;
Why must Amintor fill each Thought,
And torture every Dream?
y ___
To
[lit 3
, 5*0 fiussness, Fashions Wit and fta}% i like Attention give;
he painful Sighs that breath his Nam
The only Sign I live.
observm by all, perceiving none;
Like stupid clockwork move,
I have no Thought or a(stion free
Feel no impulse but Love.
As Angels are absorbed in bliss;
So Fm' of Love poffefs’d But, oh, with it entirely curs’d 1 As they Supremely bless’d.
Days, Months and Years go rolling oh;
I no Distindion find;
Or think on aught, but that Sad Hour
When he first grew unkind.
Why did my Joys immortal Seem;
As if they’d ever last?
Why now one fix’d eternal Pang Of Grief for what is past?
After this you can’t expect I should Siibrcribe
Totmi
# *
^ \
j
/
I
«
n
[ 111 ]
The H U M 0 U R.
t
K
A I ^ IS dull to live without Design,
I Or Hopes of coming joy;
Though we arc Sure we must resign The dear delusive Toy.
Let me be still with Wishes blesh It wakes our vital Fire; ’
Altho’ the God be ne’er possessed.
there’s pleasure in .Desire
> ' " %
Nature of Delight is Such,
we’re either cloy’d or cross’d, * V '
we’ve still too little, or too much.
And either way’cis lost.
Then, dear Desire, thy Power employ.
Let me be sooth’d by you;
I ask no other constant Joy,
But wishing Something newl
i’ll take the fleeting World as ’tis.
we’re fickle both and vain;
For Some dear loss i’ll die with Grieli Then live and hope again.
Transporting Expectation can - With Raptures fill the Breast,
The chief Delight of Life is Hope To be hereafter blessed.
LETTER
i
.
L iij J
V '•
@ @ @ @ @ # Si ® mi 9 9 @'
LETTER X
To ALPHONSO.
1 Blush to think with what Earneshiels I importuned your Stay, ill natur’d and Uncivil, why would you not hear my Request? ’twas what your Generosity could not have deny’d; for stwas not to visit often, be good humour’d when you came, return Letters, or the like. What! was you angry to find me better than you ex pedlcd? Was it possible tor me to See you, and Seel no Change? Surely was I at the Point of Death, tho’ my weak pulse had lost its Motion, and my chill Blood was stagnate in my Veiiis, finking Nature at its lowest Ebb, but one alot ted respiration more; yet shou’d yon approach, stwould animate my vital Heat, my enliven’d Blood would make one Sally more, and the gay Flourish look like.dealth and ease. Such is the Sacred Inssuence of ray Alphanfo; and when I feel no Pain (but for his absence what Joys, what pleasures then must wait upon his coming?
Think you my illness only feigned to supersede your dull Pretence of bufiness? But was it So,
Surely So kind a Fraud might be forgiven. Yon know I would purchase your Company at any ^ Rate, but making yon imeasv. For Heaven sake let me know what made you post away So: 1 believe you are in See with my phy ficians; you knowhow these Caprices of yours
P‘5 ' disorder
H
[ 214 ]
i
disorder me. Write by the Bearer, for I am in double Pain, till I know what could majke yoii So out of humour with,
• r O' 5. '. #
• ✓ »
C A LI S T
A *
*. *. ' ■ •
LETTER XL
, • I.
To ASTREA.
f.. • •

carefui Afirea^ to you the Force of Love is
So well known, that you Seem anxious for my, Safety; but the Lines you receivm last Post, I hope, will make you easy ^ I have assured you, I dare be innocently wretched. oh! blame not my Indulgence of the lovely Youth, but applaud, and wonder at my more than woman’s Resolution to leave the dear transporting and transported Charmer in height of all our Raptures; I can only Say, my Guardian angel snatch’d me from his blissful Arms, and still Secures me; But I don’t think him So beautiful as my Amimas. Pity, oh, pity, dear Ajirea! the wretchedst Sufferer that ever Love made mifei rable. Could you, or any one but you, have re fign’d such a glorious terider Lover? Was it not barbarous to us both? And yet such is humane, Fatewe must thank Heaven, if ’tis So favourable as to give us Courage to starve, lest we should Surfeit: But fly every repining Thought. In vain you do. assault me; I must, I will be wretched; in silent Anguish waste a tedious I, ife: for my Tprtures are above Complaint, no
j ^ ^. i f, j( V ^ ^ <' * w criii
« -.. I
.4' - i \
tii5]
Tenn of Horror expressive enough of what I
Seel. But wfith strapp^s Pyrrhus’ ^"
%
Bear mej oh, bear me to the Rack for Ease!!
XII
To AURELIO.
methinks, counsellor Aurelio^ you take a
preposterous Way of asking Pardon for last night’s rudeness, and confess one Fault to excuse another, by pretending you don’t know what you Said, because you was in a Passion. Am I a fit Object for any Rage but Love } But now I think on’t, you went to hoi land for Education, and I expect e’er long to be challeng’d to Snick or Snee, while you cherish the Heroical Thoughts of making your Part good with a weak Fro. But I desire no Reply to this, till you have made your Tour to Paris, and have learn’d to make Amende Honour able; then, I am persuaded, I shall be no more troubled with you I for I fancy ’twill not be easy fashioning a Thing into a Beau Esprit, or even into Humanity, that is already possess’d with So much of a Hogen Brute. Oh, how I defpisc thee! and hate myself for ever having been indulgent to your Addresses. What was st that infatuated me, that I could not penetrate thy Sullen Soul, and See the morose Temper that involved it, but mistook thy gloomy Silence oft for noble thoughtfulness, and awful Reserve?? now, with a malicious Joy, I Smile to think
P 4 wfith
[11(5]
9
with what Pain you smotherm the rancorous Ardour in your conscious Breast So long e^’er you durst .give it Vent Thus, like a Merebr, big with The congregated Vapours of a la dy^s Raillery, you blaze and burst, * Surprizethe Orb from vi/hence you drew them, and are, by the malignant Effort, lost for ever. Poor de spised Aurelio! dare no more approach me, * for ril make no Second Trial,, of your inso lence. whatt contradi(st and reprimand me! Were you a Pedagogue or a Lover } Good God, ^ Lover! You should have Suspended your Spleen, till you had better Authority, and taken a lawful Licence for ill Manners; yet with a jsion ohjlante you might have been obliged to resign your pragmatick, Charter So .stwould not have been much to your Advantage : For J should have superseded your arrogant pre tenfions, and you would: perhaps have been engag’d in worse than a Chancery Suit du rante 'vita, * for you must know, I am very vindictive, and no great Friend to Domestic Passive Obedience: We should have divided
the English Darling j you should, have had your Property, and I Liberty : So let us both thank Jleaveil for, this early.: Discovery, which wisely warns us to remain in statu quo.
'^
♦
I
S *. *
^, \
[ J
4
9
* /
/
LETTER XIII
f
To CL ARO NJ.
4
Dear C L A R o N A,
WONDER not (Sori do own it) that
I dote on the Duke of— — So
often tease me that a Woman of my Taste can entertain him. To me he has ten thousand Charms, not only in his person, but Mind, I am Sure he has, * and I can See the remoter Beauties of his Soul Sparkle in the beamy Fluid of his lovely Eyes; and in his Smiles more Rhetoric than all luufs Orations: Then pray let me alone to love this finish’d Hero, this Masterpiece of the Creation; Even Truth itself is more engaging when exprefsm with Elegance; So the Faculties of the Soul display’d by So fine. To beautiful a Form, must have irrefistlefs Force; tho’ by you, who only gaze on the visible Charms of his Person, his Intellects are cenfur’d; stis be cause you dwell only on his lovely Face, his Eyes, his Smiles, fine Shape and Godlike Mein, till dazzled with their Splendour you Tee no farther. But I view him as I do the Sun, ‘^admire his exte riour Beams, convinced by that Eclat of reful gency, there must be a more immense Brightness center’d in that glorious Orb; but was there no more, there’s enough in our Sight to cuinx even our Adoration. you’ll never, dear.
Wise
<
[ zi8 3
wise Clarontti diltuade me from this Parallel. What would you have him, a philosopher, to pall our pleasures with dull Maxims, and instead of sighing on my tender bosom, entertain me with a Dissertation on humane Passions, and Vanity of Sublunary Enjoyments? I wish Diogenes or Heraclitus were here, they should be at your Service for me; I had rather have the Sight of him, than hear all their Sententious Morality; one View of his lovely person can inspire my Soul with ten thousand beautiful Ideas and Reflections, and give it sufficient Entertainment, were he to be ever filent. But oh, Clarona^ he can speak the dearest tenderest Things, and everything I wish to hear, * nay, could he pof flbly talk nonsenfe, yet there is such Harmony in his melodious Voice, I could, with Raptures, ever listen to him, as to the Accents of Angels unintelligibly ravishing, Tm Sure he looks like one. Do you envy my Anticipation of future Bliss?? they say our Joys above consist in Vision. Who but you durst find one Fault with my adorable Hero? he has the Beauty and soft nefs of Adonisy with the undaunted Valour of the God of War, exaxly finishm for the Camp or the Alcove. What Ball or bright Assembly is Secure when he appears? What Pleasure do I take to see the Fate he Scatters round? With Love the Lashes die, the Men with Envy; while I triumplmnt linile Secure he lives for me, and only me, and you alone escape his Power, because you are refolv’d to See nothing valuable
but in the judicious awful Earl -- -- who, I am
Sure, makes Love in Mood and Figure, and talks more Politics than Passion; But I'll not retort,
but beg you’ll let me alohe to love and be be b ■ loved
C ii ]
loved; call my fondness Weakness if you please' ' at my Platonic Notions, Sunk, as yost think, into a vulgar Love: But Spare, oh spare your Raillery on that dear heavenly Man, for when you touch on him, ycii wound me in the tenderest Part j for he must, he shall, he will be ever mine : And remember, though this is not the first, 'tis the last tiine I must forgive you.
• 1 k A
; '; r • < ' '
^
^
C. ■',, N' " ^ *\ '-^
. *. •* V '* * ►
LETTER XIW
To A NT E NOR.
'
%
%
NO W I have leisure to rested on my late
dear indiscretions, I kriow not which gives me most Pain, the irrefistlefs Passion that betraym me to it, or the Secret Reproaches of my nicer Soul, unused to Such fond Freedoms; to the strict Rules of Severer Virtue ’twas too much, but to Love stwas little, to Love like mine, that, stifled tedious Years within my cautious Breast, at your Return breaks forth with a redoubled Ardour. When from my Lips you snatch’d the first dear hasty Kils, alarm’d and furpriz’d, I felt the fatal Influence, the latent Flame reviv’d, glow’d in my Cheeks, danc’d in my Eyes, and wantoning thro’ all my Frame, inspir’d eager Wishes and exquisite Desires. Love urg’d me on, bid me be bless’d with every Joy that my fond Heart could wish, and Charms like you could give, adorn’d you with every
Grace, and made you lovelier than when you
'■■..• 'i 1. ..... - ‘‘ .'■ first
[ 2x0 ]
first taught me to sigh and languish for your
dawning sweetness, * but stricier Virtue, at every thoughtful Hour, upbraids me for these looser Starts of Passion, and I resolve never to entertain the tempting Charmer more. But who, that dotes like me, could sty those dear inviting Arms, and not return the enchanting Pressure Or, when Snatcffd to that Snowy Bosom, would not recline to the unequal white ness, and on it sigh and murmur Love and Soft Desire?? there’s Magic in your lightest Touch, the melting poison runs thro’ all my Veins quick to my conscious tleart, and gives a pleasing Pain and wild tumultuous Joy : Then, in this hurry of my Senses, I follow kind deluding Love thro’ all his dear delicious Maze, Soothing delightful Paths, even to the Brink of Ruin, then stop, and with reludiant Fear ssy the threatening Danger, yet still languish for the Cliarms that tempt me to my imdoing. Oh, why was you m.ark’d out, of all Mankind, to give me all this Love and Pain? Why did you confess your Pashon, and with your artful soft Endearments win my unguarded Heart at first? for little did I distrust the fatal consequence; the lambent Fire long glimmer’d in my Breast, till your repeated Ardours encreas’ei the Blaze, and thence arcfe a never dying Flame, nor Time nor ashsence can Subdue its Power; then, if ’tis possible, forbear to please, be less lovely >• for while you look and Speak Such Soft bewutching Things, I must be delighted with you, and still love on; nothing you see can destroy it, tho’ absence had a while suppress’d it. Why would you Say you lov’d me more than ever? will that
cure me? will that deat Sound damp the Extasie

[ izl ]
tastes of a fond devoted Soul, and tecal my wandering reason? No, my eager Heart leaps up with Joy to meet the enchanting Accents; and I am, if possible, more entirely yours; and yet, yet I must resign you.
Unkind Aniemr, must I be for ever persecuted with your Importunities? How can you thus incessantly, with your Petitions, disturb that re pose, which I was hoping quickly to enjoy? Your Silence or Unconcern had, perhaps. Soon footffd me to a Calm; but every Moment you alarm my Soul with Pity, that first Essay of Supplicated Love; oh Spare me iiisthis Sad Pressiire of my Fate, since to be kind or blessed, or make you So, I must be perjstpd; you heard my hasty Vow, but Solemn as the Gods by dixi must not, dare not Ste you, you are too submis five; and, I fear, I too tender, • for shoiild the penitent' Antemr kneel and languish at my' Feet: tor Pardon, I Scon should Snatch the dear Suppliant to my Arms, and on his Breast stgh a kind forgiveness: Too well I know the Magic of your Looks to trust you here, know my owm weakness, your irrefistless Power of pleading, and the Tortures of a Breast, where resolution opposes dearer Inclination. Oli for Some Subtle casuist, whose minute Distiiuflions could Solve the Scruples of my tender Breast; teach me to evade my torturing Vow, and to my struggling Soul restore both Peace and Pleasure. Hence all ye Soothing Sophisters, in vain’s your Aid, for if I my feist urg’d by the strongest Ties, all that’s dear in Life, can find no way to prevaricate, nor in my partial Breast one mental Refer; vation in this painful Exigence, there is no
Help,
C ]
Help, but I am lost for ever, * ask ihy Pardoii then no more, you See it must be sruitless. But take it, oh take it kindly, that from my Soul I wish I could forgive you.
m
LETTER XV
«
Madam,
A Friend of ours being at the Assembly last
Nightj Saw the Lady — — to his great Surprise, in ail her flaunting Airs: the diminutive Creature made Such an Impression on him, that he was infpir’d to reverse the celebrated Girdle of Wallers ador’d Sacharijfa^ and Sent it me this Minute, • and Vis as freely at your Service as things of this Nature are maliciously at every body’s. I expect you at the unintelligent
Opera tonight,
Am pur I.
waller’s Girdle renjerd.dj on the Sight of Lady
— — at the Assembly at St. James’^.
IXT’H a t her Colossus Waste entwin’d.
Some sturdy falling Oak shall bind *
No strolling Beggar, for a Crown,
Wowld care to do what this has done.
IT was
k.
I
/
/
C«J]
/
’twas of all Plagues the ample Sphere, ’
The Mound which held the pampered Deer i Envy, Fraud, noise, licentious Love,
Did all within this Circle move..
Vast was the Compast, and yet there Dwelled neither what was Good or Fair: Unhappy Ribbon, thou hast bound The vilest Lump the Sun goes round.
LETTER XVI
To A L MJ NO.
OH, Almano, you are still more charming,
and I am lost for ever, * I bid you slight ^ and hate me; but oh disguise those Inclinations of your Soul, those Corrolives are too sharp for my tender Breast, and will not cure, but exasperate the Pain. Think of Some gentler Method to reclaim my wandering reason; venture, Ahnano, to Speak kindly to me, i’ll not hold you to your Word : Sigh, Swear, flatter, anything to Sooth the present raging Passion, which now will bless that Pity it So lately scorn’d. curse on those figbing Fools, that in Soft Numbers celebrate my Wit, and tell me ’tis a Spring of perpetual Charms to conquer and Secure' Hearts, since twill not piirchase one kind Word or Look from the dear, regardless Man I love, to whom each Moment of my life’s address’d, while Divetr
fion.
[ih] ■
fion, bufiness, nay Devotion, alss neglected for him; I have no use of: Thought but to admire his Chatms, thinb how he looks; and Smiles, and Speaks, then blush and sigh, and: bless the lovely Author of my Ruin, in whose dear Arms I had rather be kindly claspm, than grasp in my own Hand the Sceptre of the World When e’er indulgent Slumber brings him to my Arms, I fondly press him to^'my sighing Breast, whisper Soft Tales of Love, and shoth him to my Wish, hear and Swear eternal Vows of Truth and tendernessj then wake with all the Raptures of Delight, as if my Joys were real; but ost, too Soon I find the dear Delusion, my empty Arms confess the Cheat, and I can only find his dear Idea in my tortur’d Heart, • then sigh and weep, bkish at my fond Mistake, check my growing Pashon, and wish and beg, even iri the midst of my early Orizons,, that I did not, might nor, love So well. Ye cruel partial Powers that guide our Destiny, why make ye not our Sex to pity sthose who sigh and languish for them, but So often force and six out Inclinations where we meet Aversion?? how bless’d would poor Philafter be, could he enjoy the thousaiidth Part of that vast Love that I Squander away on the cruel thanklels Almano I By Some quick Change ease my fond tortur’d Heart, teach me the coldness of the careless Youth; or (to make me more bless’d) let Some Softer God inspire his Breast, until he love like me, or learn him to dissemble for a while, to make the Fate of our eternal Parting less shocking to my tender Soul, i’ll join in the Deceit. Do, dear Almano, look and Speak as if you lov’d me j then lay the
Blame on Fate, pretend your father’s Prohibition,
[1^5]
bion, a Tour to Italyi or anything but the Truth. So shall Falsehood be meritorious in you, and yoffll So mitigate my Sufferings, that instead of torturing Racks, my poor mourning Heart will gently bleed to Death.
LETTER XVII
To a Fiend, with a POEM.
t
Madam,
I Have, at last, yielded to your Importunity;
you will find inclos’d the Poem you So press a me for : I know stwill first move your Anger, then your Pity.
Tours to command.,
\
Hail, lovely Erato whose Soothing Lyre
Best Sounds the melting Sighs of Soft
(Desire;
Tune all my Notes to thy delicious Strain, 1 Teach me of Love So Sweetly to complain, > Till my own Lyre has Power to ease my Pain
I fing no careless or unconquer’d Youth,
Nor common Theme of violated Truth;
The fatal Flame, that robs me of my Rest,
Burns with an equal Ardour in his Breast;
Both by the Same impetuous impulse mov’d.
With the like Passion talked, and look’d, and
(lov’d.
CL Whole
••.
[z2<5]
Whole Hours he’d sigh on my delighted breafi, While wishing, pleading Eyes his Flame confessed

those filent Orator, that more can move. Than all the vocal Rhetoric of Love.
Thus would we both with tender transport
(gaze.
Whilst leaning on my Cheek his lovely Face, he’d press, with eager taste, my willing Lip, And oft from thence the balmy Nedtar Sip; Where every ravish’d sense would crowd to
(prove
That Earnest of the richer Draughts of Love : Thus melting, dying, in each others Arms,
I felt, oh Virtue, too, too powerful Charms, Felt irrefistless softness seize my Heart,
wish’d ever thus to join, and never part;
With mutual Langiiishments Supine we. lay, Entirely given up to Love and Play;
Till Nature, glowing with her brightest firest Could bear no more, - — tumultuoussy expires,. > ’tv/ixt awful Fears, and exquisite Desires. j While thus intranc’d, the. Passion inward burns, Exerts its Force as Love and Life returns; Then, with fresh Ardour, the bewitching Youth Still grasps me fast, and vows new Love and
(Truth;
I, quite enchanted with, the Soothing bliss, Return each Pressure, give back every kiss :
Lie, j'oy’d his Love did Such Indulgence find, ’ Straight knew no Bounds, but more profusely!
(kind, I
Urges the Rapture that, was still behind;
Railing Imagination to Such Height,
No am’rous God could promise more Delight r
Yet
#
C ]
itet I forbore this World, this Heaven of Charms, Still figh’d and wishm, yet fled his tempting
(Arms
witness, oh Honour, and oh Nature too.
If Such a Conflict you e er Saw tiuiiow.
Lor oh, too daring Lengths of Love I run.
One Moment more, and I had been undone; For that important Minute snatch’d me thenccji Equally fond of him and Innocence;
compleatly’happy that I these possessed.
Yet languish’d too, to know the mighty rest What Perturbations does traniport the Mind, 'N charm’d with the Toys We wish, and those we
(find, S
Taste pleasure to the Height, yet know there’sc
more behind ?3
I, who ne’er lovm, nor ventur’d thus before, jcnew not that Nature had Such Sweets in store | The new amusement every sense ingrost, remorse was all in the dear Wonder lost;
My Soul was full of the extatiek bliss,
I felt eaeh Touch, retasted every Kifs;
Awake I had no Thought but of his Charms, ' Or if asleep, dreamed I was in his Arms.
At last, my Transport does to Grief Submit,
I weep, and blame the almost guilty Night; With Dread the dang’rous Scene I now Survey And wonder how I forc’d myself away;
“Virtue the dear Indulgence oft upbraids.
On t other Side great Love and Nature pleads; Nature complains that I have injur’d her.
And did dull Precepts to Instindt prefer:
So only Love was pleas’d with what was done, ’ Knowing unstnish’d Joys would Sooth us to lovd
- (on
#
i 1 charge
t ]
I charge ye all, ye untrym Nymphs, oewar^. Trust not your Prudence, nor your Pride too fate Ah, who that truly loves, untouched, can hear The melting Accents of a lover’s Prayer, Endure his Pressures, bear him sigh and pant For Joys which she, and only she can grant? What can she do? stis Ruin to comply.
And to refuse, ’tis easier far to die.
For now I know, by this dear^taste of Charin's, That all Delight is center’d in his Arms;
Know too in mine he places all his bliss,
And yet to part — Sure Racks are ease to this. If Falsehood or Indisterence were our State,
It might be born, ’tis but a common Fate :
But when two Souls, So passionately kind.
By a long Series of Endearments join’d.
Part for a Name, what more Severe can prove, Not to be blessed — but cursed with So much Love? Why do the Powers above admit Desire,
Yet interdict the Passions they inipire?
Oh let them guide our passive Wills aright.
Or keep us ignorant of the dear Delight. witness yourselves, ye Powers, how much I strove, How oft I wept and pray’d I might not love; Too strong’s the impulse of a destin’d Heart,
It knows no Law, nor Interest, nor Art, *
I Love sooth’d the Scruples of my dubious Mind,
! Taught me the fatal Joy of being kind;
\ Joys wshich I almost wish I ne’er had known?
'j Such a dear Taste of Love refign’d So Soon;
I ’tis more than humane Nature shre can bear,
j He is to me than Life or Fame more dear:
But Virtue calls, reludant I obey;
Futurity, can you this mighty loss repay? f Tell me, ye Gods, if I renounce the bliss, How many Heavens you will allow for this?
Oh
» V
s
1^9}
Oh quickly Speak, Support me e’er I faint,
(Or hurrying Nature force me to relent;) Without your Aid the tryal’s too Severe,
More than my fond, my tender Brfeast can bear. Hark, a Soft Sound, s.vcet as his moving Voice, Says I shall be possefs’d of future Joys;
And since my Soul is So. compos’d of Love,
If pure, shall taste redoubled bliss above'
And now, thou dearest loveliest Youth farewell.
Adieu that Bosom where all pleasures dwell:
« -
Pardon that thus I do resign thy Arms,
acstele flowing with incessant Charms;
Too well I know and prize the Joys I lole.
But dare not ask thy Leave, lest thou refuse.
Oh do not grieve, pr let thy Part be Small,
To me transfer it, and I will bear it all;
Weep all phe darksome Hours of Night away.
In lone Recesses shun the busy Day;
Shun all that’s huijiane, to avoid Relief,
As once my Joys, So now indulge my Grief; Cherish thy dear Idea in my Heart,
Think on thy Softnels to increase my Smart; And to rack Nature to the height of Pain, Resolve to loye — but never ineet again,
Vti fti 'i
LETTER XVIII
To Alcides, feeing him after three Tears
Ahfence.
unconfcious Youth, you knew not when
(met last.
How my Soft Breast the trifling Minutes past;
3 I blush”
#
[ IJO ]
I blushing thought, how just three Years before, exa^ly on that Day, that very Hour,
(When Virtue Scarce repuls’d, your powerful
(Charms,)
Slowly I left your dear inviting Arms.
Too well you know how eagerly you Sued,
And with what tenderness you was withstood j To make the Rigour of Denial less,
J sooth’d the Pashon I could not redress:
With kindest Eyes your Languishing I view.
And vow’d, if e’er I lov’d, it should be you;
A thousand Soft endearing Things expressed.
As ydu lay wishing on my trembling Breast; The fond Mistake did not my Anger move,
I could not frown, nor chide, nor anything but
(love,
Sure two So very kind ne’er pafs’d their Time, With So much sostness, and So little Crime;
In shch Delight the pleasing Hours were Spentj That, Heaven forgive me, I could Scarce repent.
Tell me, e Subtle casuists, was’t a Sin,
Or may we dare to meet and love again?
No, rather let me ask the Fates Intent,
If they’ve decreed I should be innocent:
For tho’ I know ’tis not in nature’s Power,
I should love better, or be tempted more;
Yet i’m not Sure the Charmer can’t prevail; Virtue, tho’ often try’d, at last may fail.
Then hear, ye pitying Gods, grant my Request Subdue this dangerous Passion in my Breast;
Or if’t must be my Punishment to love.
Add to my Pain, and from my s^ght remove The pleasing Youth; for oh I dread the Criine,
And am not Safe if left to Love and him,
LET
A *
[ Zjl ]
«*
LETTER XIX
The ME S S AG E.
To A M I N T A S.
'N %
\
GO, gentle Sighs, like Inspiration move.
And tell the gay Amintas still I love;
Tell with what tender Pain Tm barg’d the bliss,
Of being only and for ever his, *
Spite of the coldness Tve fp long expressed.
The latent Fire still glov/’d within my Breast :
So Vapours pften Phoebm Glories shroud.
Yet still he (bines behind the envious Cloud.
Go to his doubtful bosom, Softly stel.
And all my Love and Languishments reveal; ^
Tell every Wish, and every tender Fear,
How I desire, yet how I dread him here.
But let him not sulpe<st, i’d have him know.
Lest he grow kind again, and love me too;
For oh, I dare not trust his powerful Charms, there’s lupre than Magic in Amintas Arms,
V
@ ® @ f @ @ @ @ ® @ t ® 9 9 9 @ 9 9 9 9 9 9
LETTER XX
To a Lady with two Copies of verfesy viz. The Garter trafifpos’d, and thq Magnet.
Dear Madam,
TH O’ you are no great Lover of Poetry,
I could not forbear communicating to
4 you
C ^12. ]
you Lines on So uncommon a Theme, as the Garter tranffod.dy to tie a Nightgown; Tribe Magnet too was Somethirig that pleas’d me. I will make no farther Apology, knowing your good Nature accepts every Endeavour to oblige you.
From, Madam, yours, cc,
On lending a Garter for a Girdle.
To A MIN T A S.
May this Soft Circle tenderestmagick prove,
And all within it feel the Power of Love; The warm Effluvia mingling with thy Blood, inspire Such Ardors as my Breast Subdued Swift let it glide thro’ ev’ry trembling Vein, Till each kind Atom glow with the delicious
(Pain.
Hail happy Ribbon, oh that in thy stead,
Thp’ o’er my Cheeks thy rosy Colour Spread,
I might, like thee, biit press and clasp him
1 (round,
Till he from my kind Arms the Soft Enchantment
found.
Oh how I envy thee, how blefs’d art thoit? Not Sacred Fillets on the priestess Brow;
Or Salisbury s Garter e’er was half So grac’d. When ’tis, with Pomp, on Sovereign Princes
(plac’d j
The azure Band Britannia dedicates, *
As Sacred to the Guardian of her State.
The Caledonian Heroes too are Seen,
adorn’d with honourable Belts of Green.,
* * - - • ^ I.
And
%
C iji ]
And is great Love should be auspicious now, '
On this kind Girdle So much Power bestow.
To charm Amintas Soul entirely mine,
, The Red TU consecrate for ever thine.
The MAG NORTHEAST T
V
A
A Minted absent, love’s as lambent Fire,
My Soul knows no kiiid Wish or fond
(Desire;;
Soon as the enchanting Youth returns,
Thro’ my whole Frame the impetuous Ardour
(burns.
Thus do the am rous latent Seeds in 3teel Lie undisturb’d, and no Emotion feel,
■ Till the inspiring Magnet near it move, n
.whose Force does thro’ each conscious atomx
(rove, ^
Then by impulsive Heat trembles with adivef
(Lovey
Is then this Sympathy a Fault in me?
Can I resist the inherent Tendency The dear Estedts I feel, but cannot find How the efhuvium actuates my Mind, Involuntary move, occult the gause,
influenc’d^ like that, by mere inechanick lawsj
#
\
(
- h
V
C 154]
4
\
'1
*
Miscellaneous Letters
AND
PARADOXES.
0
mmm^mmmmmmmmmmmmm^mmmmm^t^rnmmm iiiwb mi jm>iiy'1 |. mu ^ » pi lymyinip^ II p i„, „
LETTER I.
To Caleb Seeker Esq; at his Chatnhers in the
Middle temple, London.
Upon the F r e eth i n k e r s.
. The Fool hath said in his Hsan^ there is m God. My Dear Caleb,
Hours oi the 20th uu. has given
me a little Disturbance; for the Love and Value I have for you, makes me uneasy, that yoffre got into So wmrth less an Acquaintance as you mention, * for believe me, my Friend, there s nothing to be got by it but dist][uiet and Infamy. '’tisajust Maxim of the ingenious Onoay^
Avoid
ci35]
Avoid the Man that's Jingular^
His Brainsunfomd, his i^leeno^erweighs his Wtf>
t
For, indeed, a Man that Sets up to be wiser than the rest of the World, ought to be very Sure of the Solidity of his fuisdamentals; elfe he may, in all Probability, give greater Proofs of his Folly than of his Understanding. I know very well, that a Gountry Parson makes So ridiculous a Fighre amongst your d Friends at the grecian*that I hae but little Hopes that my Advice should be of any great irii portance with you. However, since you are still pleas’d to continue your Favour for me, I shall make use of that Privilege, and treat you like a Friend, and a Man of reason. Reason is what your new Acquaintance make great Preteiifions to, though they, by no Means, will be concluded by it.
They call themselves F r e f. t h i n k e R s, but it is a gross misnomer, a most horrible abuse of the Word i for there arc not more ssavish Thinkers in the World; they lay down certain Poflu ^ latay of which they admit no dispute: As for
Example, That the ivorld it Eternal; Phat the Soul is mortal and by Consequence that there is no jvorld to come) nor any Account to be given of onr Sins ahd Lranfgrejfons in this. Having fix’d these Principles by a Sort of dogmatical Ipse dixit, they argue not fairly, nor give you any reasons, at leall, that will bear Water to prove these Positions, but are themselves confin’d to strive and force all their Authorities and reasonings to confirm these Points. Thus you will find in their Books partial Quotations press’d into their Service, which, if fairly exainin’d by the Authors, from whence
they
C
they arc taken, conclude quite the contrary. And if these Quotations are in another Language, youve Sure to find the Transsation of them nothing akin to the Original. these are Methods, my Friend, that disebver, in Spite of their Assurance, and confident Way of expressing themselves, a wonderful Diffidence in their cause, and a Conduct too disingenuous and dishonest for the Lovers of Truth to be guilty of.
If by F R E ETH INKING, they mean an impartial bringing all Opinions to the Test of tight reason, I am as much a F r e e th in k e r # as any one i but it is plain from their Methods abovementioned, that they are afraid of being determin’d by that Test; for by that they must not pretend to impose anything upon us without Proof i whereas their very Fundamentals iiii clude greater Absurdities, or, at least, as great as transubstantiation itself: And while they laugh at our Faith, and Belief of the holy doc^ trines of the Gospel, as implicit, they require a greater Implicitness to their own Fancies, for Example, Put them upon the Proof of the Eternity of the World: Ask them how Man, a Being that we know had a Beginning, we See daily has an End, came first to fubfist? All the an fwer they give you, or at least all the Answer I could ever meet with from them, is. That our Fathers begot us, and we our Children, * that though every particular Man dies, yet the Species is Eternal. But press them on for reason, and ask them. Whether every Whole does not consist of its Part? and that. Whether every particular Part, that is, every Man, has not an End and dies? And therefore how that Whole can be Imniortal or Eternal, every Part pf which’
is
\
1
I ni 3
is confess’d by themselves to be Mortal? they give you no manner of answer, but that it was So from all Eternity.
press them again with this Question, that by their own Concession, every Individual has a Beginning; that is, that there was a Time when Veter and John and Stephen, and the rest, were not; how came they to be? All that they answer, is. That their Parents begot them. But to go on with' them; there was a Time when their Parents were not, and had no Being, and So on for hundreds of Ages past; let them take as many as they please, they must come at last to this Point, That all Beings that have an End, must also have a Beginning; and never coum have been, unless they had been product by Some Being that had no Beginning, and must by consequence be Self existent; and that Being is what we call God.
Another Article of their Faith is. That man’s Soul is Mortal; or rather, indeed, that he has no Soul at all; upon this they make all their Flourish. Here they stand their Ground, as if it were a Post impregnable. Upon this they have writ Several Books, which, I think, have been all Sufficiently confuted. However, 1 would ask them. That since they pretend to be Philosophers, that since they avow themselves Champions for the Liberty and Dignity of Mankind, to which of these does this Doctrine contribute? Is it really for the Benefit of Human Society, that every Man and Woman should believe that they die like Dogs? that therefore they may do what they will, without Regard to Justice, Truth, Virtue and Honesty, provided they take Care not to incur the Penalties of
human Laws? That Religion is a jest of Political
t ij8 ]
f
deal Institution by the cunning Meni onl y tb manage the rest of the World? Is not this to dissolve all the Ties of human Society? to open ^ a wide Door to Confusion, misery and Destruction? Wonderful Benefadors to human Kindi
/
But Such, my Friend, as all Civil Government ought with Care to extirpate, since, for the Sake of meet Probability, (for they pretend to no more) they would destroy the Security of all Mankind.
To give you a fudl View of the Immortality of the Soul, which is too long for this Letter, I refer you to the Learned Dr. Sir Richard Blackmore, the Deifies Manual, and various other Tracts, in which this Point is fully difcuss’d.
For my part, I think these Gentlemen ought all. to be usm as johuprifie, one of their grand Demogogues, wzs by a certain Nobleman of this Kingdom. The Story goes thus : Prifie, you must know, is an Irishman, begot by a Popish Priesh upon a galloping Nun, - had part of his Education in Scotland, and the rest in dj land. This Gentleman has, with the Smattering of Some little Learning, and a great deal of ria tive Impudence, a voluble Tongue, and a fawning address, instnuated himsclf into the ac quaintance of Several persons of Figure, distinguished more by their'wealth and Dignity, than shy their ijnderstandshg. Here has endeavoured
to exert his Parts, and preach up the Doctrine of the soups Mortality, especiaily a amongst the Ladies, whose weakness of Judgement was most likely to be Surprised by the Plaustbi jity of his Argument t he at last got admissi(xi into the Family of a worthy Nobleman, where propagatingshis damnable Doctrine, it came to
the
[ 1j9 ]
the Ear of the Nobleman, who provided him
a Reception the next time he came, which t’rijk did by no means admire. But whilst be was in full Argument with the Ladies, as his Way was, my Lord came into the Room, and seem’d to listen to him with Some Attention, which made him exert himself in an extraordinary Manner, hoping for a new Convert in that Illustrious person, * but taking his Leave, Hold, Said my Lord, you have been at a great Expense of Breath, and I don’t use to be ungrateful to those that endeavour to Serve me. With that he rung a Small Bell, and in rush’d half a dozen of lusty Fellows with a Blanket, and seiz’d upon Prifley who began to bustle, and cry, He was a Gentleman, and hop’d therefore that his Lordship, for his own Sake, wou’d use him as Such. I shall use you. Said my Lord, as a Dog, as a Corrupter of Families, as one that had disclaim’d all Pretence to Religion and Immortality; and therefore art a Dog, and as Such shalt be usd y though indeed a Dog is much the more valuable Creature, * he is of Some use, thou of none; the Blanket shall Suffice for this time, • but if ever thou darest venture within my Doors again, expe<st worse usage. With that the Ladies all vanish’d; the Lord withdrew, and not regarding his Prayers, the Men went to work with him, and toss’d poor Prifle So long, that they dismiss’d him in a most flagrant Condition.
This, I think, is the best Confutation of Such disputants; I shall defer my Character of his Colleague till another Opportunity. My Friend, I would have you not debase your Understanding So far as to keep Such Company, who whilst they boast a Superiority of reason to the most
Excellent,
[ HO i
Excellent, fall short of the common Sense of the Lowest. Remember this, that the Fool hath aidin his Heart, there is no God: But the Atheists of the Royal prophet’s time were too modest to declare their Folly; but those' of our time are more impudent, and boast that Folly as a per fedion.
I am your loving Friend, belthazarduethoughtj
LETTER II
The Anjwer to the foregoing Letter:
To the Reverend Mr, Duethought in Kent
«•
, o.
Dear Sir,
These are to return my Thanks for your
last obliging Letter, in which you discover So friendly and Christian a Concern for my Welfare. But, my dear Friend, your Fears are without any real Foundation; for tho’ I am for inquiring into all Religions, yet I could never be So whimsscal as to Seek for a Religion among the Freethinkers, as they call themselves; who openly declare, that they have none. For my part, I have as contemptible an Opinion of them as you can have; and think the Noble Lord gave Trifle a Reception worthy his Endeavours : So all Such Dogs ought to be used, whenever .they invade the Security and happiness of
Families I look upon the Freethinkers, as they
call
4
[z4i]
tall themselves, to be the Pest of human Society.? They are, indeed, the most mischievous, and the most Worthless Wretches that pretend to the Name of Men. Thinkers they style themselves, but certainly not from that Notion that we have of the Word, viz., the Solid Ressedion of rational and immortal Beings, but from that fortuitous and undesigning Thought, which we may fuppose to be in meet Animals, * and yet I may Seem to wrong those very mere Animals in putting the Freethinkers upon a Level with em; for we can plainly discover, that those regularly pursue a certain End, but the Freethinkers none; or at leasts none agreeable to Thoughti and their Being as Men, since they pursue what must be destrudive of their well-being,! if not of their very Being itself: For whilst they take away, and break down the Fences of Conscience and Religion, they rob Mankind of that Security which is absolutely necessary to his happi ness, and which only can render Life desirable; I cannot discover what Motives Set these mic creants to work, in publishing and promoting their Opinions, as foolish as abominable. If they will needs think So out of the Way, in a manner So unworthy of the Dignity of human Nature; if they had rather believe themselves the Essed of blind Chance than the produd of eternal wisdomj if they had rather fancy, that they shall die like Rats and the other Verihin of rhd
t
Earth, than enjoy a Life hereafter replenishii with Such Beatitude as is capable of filling the Vast Desires of a human Mind, enlarg’d and elevated with a wonderful Idea of an omnipotent and gracious Odd, why don’t they sit down with that Freedom of Thinkings as they call it, arid
R
[ ^4^ 1
go off the Stage of the World in Some obscure Hole, like their Brother Verinin? Why will they, itom free ‘temkers, become licentious Writers? Why will they be So officioussy busy to promote their pernicious Opinions? They canst pretend Conscience Sets them to work, that they have disclaimmbut what conscience can there be, when, according to them, there is neither Religion nor God, the very Foundation of all conscience?? must therefore declare, that though I am for a Liberty of reasoning, I think these Wretches ought to be extirpated with Death; and that because they do not re a Son, but endeavour to banter us out of all that is good and valuable with a poor wretched sarcasra, or a ridiculous Pun or Conundrum.
m
I am your humble Servant
%
Seeker.'
LETTER III
On SAME.
Laudumque immenfa Cupido.
To Mr, praiselove, to be left at Button s coffee houfi^ ruflel ftreet, covent gar den, London. ‘
My dear Friend)
Hilst I amuse myself here in the Country, partly with Books, and partly with our rural Diversions, I Sometimes look back on those
brisk
C h3 ]
4
brisk Enjoyments I used Sorraerly to meet with in the Town; and as it is natural to all Men, I endeavour to give the Advantage to my present Condition; for he that does not So, must be im
easy, and consequently unhappy; for Such un eafiness rouses our dormant Desires to Wishes of Something we cannot attain.
This makes me prefer the Pleasures of Solitude tothose more gay and more noisy Pursuits of you Men of Business and Action. I confess indeed, that you are not one of those who delight in hunting a Fortune, and pressing through Crowds with Assiduity and obsequioufness to the Great and Powerful, who are tyre only dispenfators of the Goods of Fortune. But then you follow a nother Chase not less incumfired with Fatigue and Uncertainty, that is, praise, Same, Reputation, from the Performanceis of your Wit, your Learning, and especially your Poetry. Yes, my Friend, I know, and have been witness of your Satisfaction and Joy upon the Applause that has been given to your Works by the Judicious; for I must do you that Justice, I never found you at all exalted at Acclamations of the Vulgar, of the Ignorant jddbd.drbe vjits of the Age; that you despis’d as too transitory a Satisfaction to be the object of your Endeavour.
But, my Friend, is not the Applause of al! this World So short and transitory, that it has but the Life of a Dream? like that it vanishes when Death wakes us to Eternity. What Benefit did Homer, Virgil, Horace, Ovid, and the rest of the great Poets of Antiquity, gain by the universal applause their Works have every Day met with to this Day? What Benefit in their Lives had they from this? They only had thesatisfac
R 2 tioa
C h4]
tion of the Admiration that was paid them whilst they liv’d, • though I confess that they had another, perhaps as transporting, that is, that their Fame should be immortal. This puts me in Mind of a Dream I had the other Night; I thought I went into one of those Celebrated costee houses, which was a resort of Men of Wit and Learning, and where I had never been before; discourfe, methoughts. Soon brought me to their Knowledge. Is this. Said one, the great Mr. Crites? I have long. Said another, wish’d to See and embrace the Man, whose Works have So often charm’d me. In short, every one paid me their Compliment, and I found an inward Transport at Such a Reception from So many Men of Learning : But I immediately awak’d, and all that Pleasure vanish’d; and Such is all the Reputation of the World, and no more. I am not here declaiming against Same and Reputation itself; for though it be of no longer Date than Life, yet the Desire of it has been the happy Source of the greatest and bravest Actions that ever were. Nor wou’d I have you think, that what I Said, is level’d against the nicest pursuit of Fame, Poetry : No, I have another Opinion of that Art, than to say anything mean or little of it.
Qui mentem magnis applicat,
Debt primes Verjibus anms.
These are the Words of Petronim Arbitery a Man equally skill’d in Men and Letters, * by which it is plain he thought, and which is certainly So in, that the applying of our early Years to Poetry, enlarges the Soul, and fills it
with
[ h5 ]
%
with Such great and noble Ideas as are fit to raise it to great Actions. But this does not at all belong to the Scribbling Poetasters of this Age, to the Men of meet Verfisscation; but our true Poetry, Such as v/e ssnd in homerptndar, So' f hocks, Euripides, Virgil, Spencer, Milton, and the rest of those great Men. Alexander the Great is an illustrious Instance of this Particular, who was from his Childhood conversant with ail the Greek Poets, and was So fond of Homer, the Father of them all, that he carrym him perpetually about him through all his Conquests, and frequently declared his generous Envy of Achilles, that had obtained So glorious a Recorder of his Virtue. And indeed Alexander had abundance of Achilles in his Temper, his Fire, his Choler, his rash ness, his insolence, and his Valour; he had his Patroclus too in Hephefiion, Augufius Cafar was a Hero of another Temper; Ul)ifes was his Original, whom he imitated nearer than Virgil did him in his Character of alneas; he was politic. Secret, and a perfe(st Master of Dissimulation; he knew Mankind perfectly well, and likewise knew how to improve that Knowledge to his own Advantage, Qualities eminent in the Hero of the Odyjfes. Augufius had employ’d his younger Years in Study, in which the Poets had So large a Share, that he retain’d his Love for Poetry and Same to his dying Day. There is no need of giving Instances of this, Virgil, Horace, Lucca, Varus, are Sufficient Proofs of it; his own en deavoursat a Trage dy, his fondness of the al neids, and the Complaints of Horace not mentioning him often enough in his Poems, leave us po manner of Doubt in this Particular.
R 3 It
[ ]
If the modern Heroes fall short of those of Antiquity in greacness of Mind, as well as con quefr, it is my Opinion it is for Want of enlarging their Souls in their Youths by reading the Poets, and thence imbibing that glorious Thirst of Fame, which has rendered the former immortal. This is enough to show you, iriy Friend, that I am not an Enemy to that useful Vanity, that has been the Parent of So many Heroes, the Love of Praise I mean, which indeed touches only the finer Spirits, Such as Cicero, Pnus quinelimy Flawamusy Junius Brutut, c.
For to this Desire of Praise we must attribute the Establishment of the Liberty of Rome in the Execution of the Sons of Brutus, and the Delay of the Ruin of Roman Liberty in the consulship of Cicero \ for vrhat Share the Desire of Praise had in it, we find by that Letter of luuy, which begins. Coram me tecum eadem haec agere Jape co ndntem, cit
is not therefore that I think the Love of Praise iinneceitary in the World, but that I find no Charms in it for niyself, • and in that Particular it is on a Foot with ail other Enjoyments in this World; for Death has So often • star’d me in the Face, and shook his terrible Dart So near me, that it has pall’d my Taste to all Sublunary Things. This, you’ll Say, is looking too near on Nature, and the State of human Things. It may be So; but this I must reply. That if this nearer View afford but little pleasure, it shows me the Truth of Things, and So delivers me from a great deal of disquiet, * it curbs the uneasy Appetite of Things absent, and makes me not wish for anything but what I enjoy; for whatever is transitory, whatever
has
[ ^47 3
has an End, whatever is not Eternal, has not Power to raise my Desire, that terminates only in that shpreme Being, which, as it had no Beginning, So never will have .an End.
But this, you’ll Say, is preaching the Melancholy Doctrines of a dying Man, and you are in the Health and Vigour of your Age, too brisk and warm to relish these cold Maxims: You are shr more gay and active Notions, * long may you enjoy that Health and Vigour, and late may it be e’er you come to my weak State and Condition I for you will think then, as does now
9
Tour faithful erien4i
and Ser'vanty
4 •
C R I T E s.
\
• *
\
*
/
i *
*■ •
R 4
✓
• m
[z48]
i
LETTER IV
That our Jleeping Hours are as 'valuable
as our waking,
.A Paradox.
Somne quies rerunty placidifftme fmne deorum.
To Christopher Crotchet Esq; at Captain rattle’r in windmillstreet, Piccadilly,
Dear Kit,
/
ty'hat all in Raptures — Oh! thetranf ^ ^ porting yoys of the divine Chariclea, ixihen / lay panting on her snowy Breafi, my Soul jufi fluttering to my very Mouthy to meet her balmy Breath.
What, Ktty hast thou at last obtained Possession of the coy Charidea.? No, nothing but an empty Dream; you dreamed she was kind, but waked and found her the Same coy, proud, cruel, inso lent Woman she has always been. Why faith, Kity I think the Joy you found in your Dream really more valuable than what she could afford you waking. I knew a young Gentleman, who Said he could Sleep as long as he pleased, and dream of what he pleased. Accordingly, when Money run low, he would get up to his Castle, three pair of Stairs in the Temple, lock himself in, go to Bed and steep for a Day or two. If he had had ill luck at Gaining, then he would re solve to dream of stripping the whole Board;
Sq
i r'
[^49]
So during his Sleep he had Money enough. IS kbuis had prov’d cruel and unkind, then he would dream of rifling all her Charms at his pleasure, while she embrac’d him with all her Endearments, till he was weary of her fondness. If his Relation, my Lord Worthkfsy had refus’d to promote his Suit at Court, then he went and dreanit of his lordship’s Downfall, and his own Establishment on his Ruins.
Now, Kit, if you had this Art, you would not have much occasion to repine at your mistrefs’s Unkindness, since the pleasure would be more sincere and transporting; but you Say it is too short, it vanishes as Scon as you wake, and then you are in your old Condition of a miserable despis’d Lover. Well, Kit, and if you were really possess’d of your charming Chartclea^ would not your Joy Soon vanish like a Dream,, and you wake to Satiety and disgtist? If the Pleasures of a Dream be short, are not the Favours of the Fair and of the Great So too? and tho’ they last but a Day, an Hour nay, Sometimes but a Moment, what a deal of Assiduity, Fawning, Flattery and slavish Attendance must you pay to obtain them? but the pleasures of a Dream, tho’ short, come freely, unsought for, and unexpedled and really, I think, are full as Substantial as the other. This puts me in mind
of what Proffero says in Lhe iem^eji;
%
— — Tfhefe our asiors,
As I foretold you, "were all Spirits, and Are melted into Air, into thin Air;
And like the baseless Fabric of the Vision,
Sthe cloud capt Towers, the gorgeous Palaces,
The solemn Temples, the great Glebe itself
tea
[ io ]
Tea all which it inherity Shall dijfolvey And like this infubfiantial Pageant fadedy Leave not a Track behind. vve are allfuch Stuff As Dreams are made on j and our little Life Is rounded with a Sleep.
For my Part, I have often thought that our Sleeping Hours are as valuable as our waking; and Nature itself Seems to have equally divided our Life between them. sl^ep is of a Sovereign use, not only to the Healthy, but to the Sick, when we have tired both our Minds and our Bodies, in the foolish pursuit of bufi ness, Power, Riches, or Love, we are fain to have recourse to Sleep, to refresh us, nourish us, and enable us to go through the Fatigues of the following Day.. When we arc parch’d with the Fires of violent Fevers, and the phyfician’s Art is foil’d, and unable to quench the unnatural Flame, if gentle Sleep but hear our Call, and come to our Assistance, the Fire abates, till quite extinguish’d by his friendly Showers. What Esteem Sleep was in among the Ancients, is plain from the Honours they paid it; first they made it a God, and his Temple was built with black Marble, tho’ his fettled Abode was fix’d among the Cimmeriansy whose Country was half the Year Night; hither dispatch’d irisy to desire him to send a Dream tq Hakyoney to let her know that her Cceyx was shipwrack’d, that she might no longer Solicit her with Victims and Prayers for his Safe and happy Return. The same Ancients paid So great a Deference to Sleep, that they took many of their Divinations from thence; if what they sought, related to Health, they ssept in the Temple of Afcala
pimy
[ XI ]
fim, and that God, always in their Dream, re i veasd a Remedy for their Malady : IS what they Sought, related to War, they ssept in the Temple of Mars: IS to Love, in tharos Venm.. They had likewise their steeping Hero, as endy mion, who steeping always on the Top of Mount Latmos^ he enjoym the Caresses and Love of Diana; nor was she without a Rival in this drousy Charmer; a young Nymph, whose Name I have forgot, was So enamour^’d of him, that her Kisses and fondness So disturffd his re pose, and rous’d the jealousy of Diana., that she turn’d her into a Fly; but she still retains her old Nature, and by an impertinent fondness always disturbs the steeping. But what need I dwell upon the Heathen, since the Sacred Writers afford Such ample Proof of the Excellence and Importance of Sleep? There srz find Dreams are made use of to reveal the Fate and Revolution of Empires : As pharoaps Dream of the Seven fat and lean Kine, which, by the Interpretation of yofephy he found to fignisy Seven Years of Plenty, and Seven Years of Famine that were to come i by which means he engrofs’d ail the Property of Egyptj and became the absoiute master of his People. Thus in Daniel we find the fore knowledge of the Several Monarchies of the World reveal’d to the King of Bubylon^ and interpreted by that Prophet. In the Same manner many of'the Prophecies of Isaiah, ez.ekiei and others, were delivered to them in Dreams or Visions, which is all one. but.you may Say these were the Dreams of Princes and Prophets, and therefore have little Regard to private Dreams. What think you then of the Dreams of the two fellow prisoners of Joseph, one of whose
Dreams
\
[ 251 ]
Dreams foretold his Restoration to the king’s Favour, that of the other his being hang’d.^ In short, to Spend more Time in the Defence of Sleep, might, for ought I know, provoke it in you i I shall only therefore wfish you frequently Such Dreams as that you describe to me; and desire that you would not think me in a Dream, but thoroughly awake, when I subscribe myself,
Yotir faithful Erlend,
Nik Whimsy.
#
LETTER V
t
On Women,
%
Varium & mutahile semper- -- -
nulla bona eji ^ at f bona contigit uttuy iiefcio quo pasio res mala fasia bona ejt.
To John Freely Esq; at his House near
Mdiddon in Kent.
Dear Jack,
I receiv’d your long Letter of the i oth past, and am glad you meet with So much Plea sure in the Country; but I slant be even with you, till I Send you as long a one on Some of
the pleasures of the Town, at leash that Part
of
4
[ ]
of ’em which engages the Chase of the young Fellows of Spirit. Being confinm to my Chambers by a Fit of the Gout, when now the Rage of it was pretty well abated, I admitted the Visits of my Friends and Acquaintance, to divert the tedious Hours. One Day I had a Visit from Myfogamus znd Philogamus \ Soon after came in Gaymood, tiattle and Vert, Fellows, whose highest Ambition is to be in the Ladies Favour; and all their difcourse runs upon the Beauty of Belinda, the fine Air of Clelia, and the Wit of Berenice. If you chance to mention a glorious Campaign, a Battle bravely fought, and Victory still attending our Arms; Towns and Countries won; and the Terror struck into the Foes by the British Valour: They shall presently cry out, Oh! the invincible Charms of Belinda, no Mortal can behold her Eyes without being vanquish’d, without being her voluntary Slave, and bound in Such agreeable Chains as you’ll never desire to be free. Who can hear the penetrating Wit of Berenice, and yet boast himself Master of his own Heart? Thus they shall tell you how many Campaigns they have made in besieging the impregnable Clelia, with an exact History of all her Frowns, and the Modes of her Slights and Disdain, as if they were of that Importance that the highest Glory attended them.
After they had Sufficiently tired us with this
Talk they withdrew -- -- -- -- -- -- What intolerable
Coxcombs, cry’d out myfogamhi, are thesc Fellows, to think that their Follies are an agreeable Entertainment for other Men; and to think
that those that are Fools to Women should be
fit
«
K
C i54 ]
sit Comf )anions for persons of Reason and
Understanding!
I find. Said Philogamm, as silly as you esteem these Men, they have. been able to raise your Spleen against the fair Sex; your Eyes, and the Vehemence of your Voice discover it. I con fess, reply’d he, that when I hear the most trifling Part of the Creation extolsd and ador’d like Something divine, I am not able to keep my Temper. That I was born.of a Woman was not my Choice, and therefore, I think, has no right to engage me in their cause; Generation, indeed, is the only valuable use of womankind;; has thought fit to give them a. Share in our Production, for which only they are esteem’d by the more wise easterly Nations, where they are look’d on no more than as the first Rank of Slaves, * accordingly their Lives are commonly in the Hands and Will of the Husband. In other Parts they are oblig’d to die and be burnt with their dead Husbands. During the Prevalence of the Doctrine of the Druids in g aul and in Britain., who were thought to derive their Principles from the Nations of the Last, the Women entirely depended on the Will of the Men, who could put them off, or put them to Death, as they thought fit: If that Power may be thought too arbitrary for humane kind, too often directed by the Passions; the other Extreme of fubjeding the Men to the Huniour of a Creature that is guided by nothing else, is fully as absurd: To admit Women to an Equality of Share in the Government of Families, to place our pleasure and Happiness in them, is a madness that only prevails in the
Northern Part of the World, where Men are
not
[ ^55 ]
not warm’d by the gracious Influence of the Sun into finer and more exalted Notions, • and hence proceeds most, if not all our disquiet and Miseries. Were they, indeed, endow’d with Knowledge, Reason, Virtue, resolution, Honour, Constancy and Chastity, we might have more reasoii to justify our Conduct in this Particular: But whilst in them there is only Ignorance, an Impotence of Passion, Inconstancy, Lust, and the like, we go on in the Old Track, only because our fore fathers shew’d us the way.
But to come to Particulars, how should they have Knowledge? that comes from Education, from Study, from the Experience of a wise observer, * whereas the whole Education of Woman is Spent in Trifles, in learning how to dress themselves, and give their Faces the best Air they can, to captivate the Fools that admire ’em* How should they have Virtue? that like wfise depends upon Knowledge. Who reads to them the Maxims of Moral philosophy, and by that Means Sets before their Eyes the Nature, Limits or Bounds of the Several Virtues Their Female Instrudors know nothing of it, their Male Teachers as little; all that they learn from these, is either a Tune upon the Spinet, a Song, or a Dance; they inform them in the Steps of a Minuet, a Rigardoon, or Some other French Dance, whose Name, I thank my Stars, I know nothing of, * the chief Lessons that are in -- culcated into them are Pride, the gratifying their Appetites, and the Several little Arts of Coquetry; Thus qualified, thus adorn’d, thus instruded, they Set out to be Mistresses of Families, and sharing in the Government of them with the most wise and knowing of Husbands;
whi^h
11^6 2
which' if they deny them, nothing but Strife and Disturbance ensue; nor can anything ap peas them, but the entire Subjedion of the Husband, as well as Family, to their Will.
But to Say all that I could Say upon this sub jed, would, I am afraid, tyre you, and make you think that I had nothing to offer in this cause but general Jnvedives. This Part therefore of my difcourse I shall conclude with this Quotation out of the incomparable Otway in his Orphan.
%
jeho veoi it betrayed the Capitol? tvoman.
jvho lofi Mark Anthony the World I Woman Who was the Cause of a long ten Tears War Andlaidy at lafiy old Troy in ashes?? deflruhi’vey damnabley deceitful Woman I Woman to Man firji as a Blejjing giuen.
When Innocence and Love were in their Prime i Happyy a whiky in Paradise they lavy But quickly Woman long d to go astray;
Some foolish new Adventure needs muji provcy And the firjl Devil jhe fawy she changd her Love i Lo his Temptations lewdly Jhe inclirid Her Souly and for an Apple damn d Mankind.
Otway is content with a few Instances of the perfidioufness, Inconstancy, and Destrudivenefs of Womankind, but those which were eminent, and concerffd in the happiness of great Men, of great Nations; and, in fine, of all humane kind. Were we, indeed, to number all the Examples of the fatal Vices and Follies of that Sex, which the History of all Nations astbrds us, I should, want Time, tho’ I Spent whole Years in the Narration, to give you one Half of
their'
[t|yj
their Number. What are the unnatural Lists of the Pafifhaes^ the adulterous Love of the Sterna ifwd.*s and Phadrdj, the Salacious and abandoffd lewdness of Mejfalim 1 of whom the Poet faidj
Decern laffata •viris, fed mndum fatiatd mejpl
*
What shall we Say of the Ingratitude and unir bounded Ambition of Setnirkmis? who was first a Concubine to one of the Slaves of the great King Nimuy and being seen by him, liad the good Fortune to win that king's Heart to Such k Degree, that she became his chief and favourite Mistress * this Love, in a little Time, made that Prince dote to So mad a Degree, as, on her Request, he Surrendered the Sovereign Powet in* to her Hands for ohe Day. But See the monstrous Ingratitude of this Woman, Ingratitude, that none, indeed, but a Woman could be guilty of; she turns the gracious Gift of her beshtted Behefador against his Life; in short, by the Power he had given her, she caused him to be stain; and by other Arts, too long here to particularise j ufurp'd his Kingdom. Belefiia was a dancing singing Slave, and for the Agility of her Heels, and the fineness of her Voice, was prefet'd to be Concubine to Antiochm; and finding her Power able to compass anything with; that King, nothing less than a Goddefsship woum please the aspiring Harlot; the King therefore, at her Request, eredls a Ternple to her, under the Name of Venm Beleftta. But we will say no more of the Ambition of this Sex; we will pafs over Athalia, fez, ebely Ireney and infinite Numbers of the like, both Ancient and Moderni that have made Kings and Nations
S feel
V
[158]
feel the terrible Effects of their Pride, Ambition, Pvevenge and Cruelty, * nor will I insist upon the Story of the Efhejian Matron as a Proof of the sickle Inconstancy of that Sex; it is an Instance quite worn out, and suspeded as a Forgery, and no real : I shall quit History therefore, and only give you Some few Instances that I have gathered from my own and my Friends Experi * dice. To begin with their Inconstancy.
Parthenia was a young Lady ofexquifite Beauty, fomewit, and, as stwas thought, a great deal of Prudence. Mirabel was a young Gentleman of Such Parts, and So lovely a person, that whilst his Understanding and good sense engag’d the Friendship of the Men, the Gracefulness of his Body surpriz’d the Hearts of not a few of the Women; but none of them had Charms enough to make him their Captive, Parthenia; he
only lov’d her, and she only him: Nay, if there were any difference in the Force of their Passion, hers was the greater. Both Parties So equally loving. Marriage was Soon agreed on; Friends consented; Settlements were made, and the Day appointed. But, alas 1 what Security has Man of a Happiness that depends upon Woman, when a meet Whim, a Caprice of theirs shall of a Sudden overset it? Mirabel, you may be Sure, was a constant Visitant every Day, till the happy Hour came, which was but two Days ost, when this acci dentdestroy’d ail his Joys. Parthenia had a very pretty Cat given her; Mirabel had a mortal a verfion to a Cat, and coming into the Diningroom before his mistress was there, poor Puss, that was a very tame and familiar Animal, before it was Seen, jumps into Mirabel's Lap, who, in a Fright, Seizes the Cat, throws it
I down,
I
*
[ 2.59 ]
down, and stamps with that Force upon its Head, that he lest her Sprawding in the last Agonies. When Parthema enter’d the Room, Seeing puss in that Condition, she snatch’d her up into her Arms, and in a most violent Passion order’d Mirabel to retire, and never See her more. While she was poffess’d with that Passion, Mirabel made no Difficulty to obey her, designing to return in a few Hours; in which Time he hop’d his mistress’s Rage would be appeas’d, and puss removed for his Reception; but quite contrary, he found a most dangerous Rival in the Cat, which, tho’ dead, ingrolsed theastedtions So much of Panhenia^ that, notwithstanding all the Mediation of Friends, she could never be prevailed with afterwards to See him; but to avoid his Importunities, left the Town, retired into the Country; and hearing of Mirahel\ Design to follow her, clapped up a Match with a Country Clown, whom she had never Seen four times in her Life.
I shall content myself with only this Instance of the strange Inconstancy of the Sex, nor shall I give you any Example of their known lewd nefs: Every Town, every Street, nay, almost every house can furnish the Experienced with Proofs of that Particular.
Avarice is indeed a Crime of both Sexes, hut not So vehement, and So general in the Men, as in the Women; you may frequently meet with a generous Man, but I bdieve, I may say, no Man ever met with a truly generous Woman: They have a sort of Charity, as they call it, by which they can give an Aims at the Door, or the narrow Bounty of a Guinea, or half a Guinea put into Some eminent divine’s Hands to be em..
a
'[ io ]
V
ploy’d in charitable uses; by which they bribe ' the parson to give them the Nahle of good chris tians, and Ladies of a Soft and cbriipassionate Teniper and Pity, and relieve the Misfortunes of their Fellow-creatures : Perhaps there liiay be Some few that may Struggle tip to a larger Donation; but this I arh Sure, that all History eah not afford one Woman that ever was ia Re war der of Men of Learning, and an Eheourager of Arts and Sciences.
lenatoha wa of the least Size of \vbmanhind, else tolerably agreeable in her Perfdn; she had a large Fortune left her, wshich was a Charm Sufficient to engage my Friend Shifter to inarry her; and at first he brag’d of his Judgement III his Choice, that of all Evils he had chosen the least, never resseding, that tho’ she was the least in person, she was a very great Evil; her Temper and his being dstedly opposite j he was generous, free, open, hospitable, and she stingy, reserv’d, and an Enemy to all hospitality. If he invited his Friends home to Dimier, she wotild be Sure to provide Such an Entertainment as should certainly disgust them, and prevent their troubling her any more in that Nature. He would have his Servants have everything that was convenient; she abridg’d them of what was even necessary; insomiich that Pudding made only of Fiowr, Salt and Water, was a Regale, which she seldom afforded them, with a Piece of Neck Bees baked in the middle on ir. This poor Shifter was fain to submit to, tho’ much a gaiiist his Inclination. Wlienever she went to a friend’s to Dinner, she carried with her a little Tin Box, into which she us’d to convey a Leg or a Wing of a Fowl, or any other dainty Bit;
which
[ ]
which she would not afford herself at her own
>
Expense at home. About Chrifimas she went round to half the Grocers in Town, getting of them Samples of Fruit and Sugar, which was Sufficient to keep her Christmas without any ex pence to hersels. When she was at her country house in the Summer, she would go about to her poor Tenants and Neighbours, and praise their poor homely Viands, with which they treated her So far, that she would be Sure to carry home a Piece of Bacon from one, a Piece of Bees from another, a Piece of cheese from a third, and Something from every one, * she was So careful to lose nothing, that she fed her Ducks with her own Excrements; in short, for I am weary of dwelling on this odious Animal, she was as crooked in all other Conditions, as in person; So that tho’ she brought poor Shifter a plentiful Fortune, she made'him the most miserable of Men.
What shall I say of Scribonia^ a Woman of Wit? How shall I describeher unbounded Lust? She never Saw Man that she did not desire,, * she never desired a Man, but she found Some Means to enjoy him; which brings to my Mind a pleasant Adventure of hers. In the Number of her Gallants, she happened unfortunately to find one that bestow’d a Favour upon her, which she could not get rid of wfithout the Kelp of the Physician. ivtli. gd.lliflrd happeffd to come and See her in this Condition; she receiv’d him with a great deal of Indignation, with the Sweet ap pdlations of Rogue, Villain, and the like. Madam, laid he, what Occafipn have I given for this inhumane Treatrnent? If to have lov’d yoi\ with the utmost Zeal and Fidelity be a Fault, I
S 3 own
[ ii ]
own myself the most guilty of Mankind, * hut Scr any other Crime against you, I must assert my Innocence, and your Injustice. Why, Says she, with Some Emotion, have you not CL — t me? He deny'^d the Charge, and offerm Such Proofs that he vas not guilty, that she was fa tisfy’d in his Innocence. Why then. Says she, it was Beaugard, or Belfindy or Povenly., or Kam ■ bky and So went on to about a dozen more, whom she could remember, or at least thought fit to mention; for his Smiles upon her for her Enumeration of her Gallants put a Stop to her Carreer^ But I grow tired of this subjest, for I could give you a thousand Examples of the Vices and Follies of the Sex.
Here Alyfogamus made a pause, which we attended for Some Minutes, expecting that when he had recovered his Breath, he would go on with his Invedives, but finding him perfectly filent, Philcgamus thus, began :
I have heard you with abundance of Patience declaim against Women in general, with very little reason, nay, without any reason that is at all conelufive against the Sex. You have enumerated a great many Faults and Frailties of Womankind, • and which I may allow without any Detriment to what I have to Say. In the first place, to have made your Charge of any Force and Effect, by a just Consideration you would have found, that all you can Say upon this Point is of very little consequence, unless you could persuade us, that you are wiser than that Supreme Nature that formed Womankind; but that, I am afraid, is a Task that even you yourself will own much beyond your Capacity to
perform. That Eternal Mind, that made us,
judged
*•*
[ ]
Judged Woman necessary to the happiness of Man : But youhl Say, that shes fallen from that primitive Innocence from whence that hap piness should be derived : But is not Man also fallen from the Same? Has he no Vices and fol lies to contribute to the unhappiness that he now does experience? You will Say again, that it was Woman tempted him to throw away the bliss of paradise for her Sake, * but did nor he know that his Ostence would have that Effect?? he not know the Guilt he should incur by listening to her Solicitations? Yes, he knew it ah, and So became a voluntary Criminal, and in that more weak and abandon’d than Woman herself.
You muster up a great many general Sentences and precarious Maxims, which you would fain have the Force to reach the whole Sex, and give various Instances of the odious transgref fions of Some Particulars, never considering that there is not one of them which we cannot parallel, and exceed among the Men. Semiramis was ungrateful and cruel; bvit what think you of neroj who was ungrateful and cruel, even to his own Mother? a Mother, that was So fond of him, that notwithstanding she was told, if she made him Emperor, her own Life was in Danger; Let she die. Says she. So that he reign; yet this Mother he destroy’d: But for what? Not like semiramisy to gain the Empire of the World, to wrest that Sovereign Power out of the Hands of an effeminate worthless Prince, which she executed with Honour, Reputation and Glory; but out of a Wantonness of horrible Cruelty, to see the Place where he was nourished as an Embrio.
S 4 Belefiia^
m
Beleftia^ you Say, had an odd Atebitipn of being a goddcss; and to that End made use of her Power ^vith the King to have a Temple erected unto her. Well, but were there never ny Men guilty of the same Ambition? What think you of Empedoclesy a philosopher and Poet ^ He, to obtain the Name of a God, threw himself into Mount Ahtna. What think you of Alexander the Great, who, delpifing his own Father Philip, would needs be thought the Son of Jupiter, and be flatterd with the Name of Toung Ammon? What think you of the celebrated Augufim Cafar, who astbrds us a double pie in this Cafe? one of intolerable Ingratitude, the other of this particular Vanity wshich yoii mention. Cicero the famous Roman Orator, the most Eloquent of Mankind, Exeellent in all Parts of human Literature, receiv’d Augujlm, then call’d o^n'ii/wijcoming to Rome the Death of
Julim Cxfar, without Interest or Friends of any Power; promoted him in the Gommonwealth, contrary to the Opinion and Persuasion of Bru -- ms, called him Son, and prevailed to have him chosen Consul, even before he was of legal Age to enjoy that Authority. What did the young pbavim do in Return of all these Favours? being pofless’d of the Roman Army by Ciceros Interest, he join’d Mark Anthony and Lepidm, and forming the Second Triunivirate, cemented this new League with the Bipod of his Father Cicero, Surrendring him in the Proscription to his inveterate and malicious Enemy Anthony. au guflus being at last Sole Emperor of Rome, admitted all the grdfs Flatteries of that Time towards the making him a God, and permitted
Altars to be erpfted to him as Such.
;.... V '. ■ i'.
C 1^5 ]
What you tell us of Mejfalim and her exbrbh tant Lust; as great as it was, it was still kept
within the Bounds of Nature, and terminated
_ > -
in Man: But cast your Eyes to the Isse of Caprea, whither the Tyrant t’ikriusy the Successor of Augufim, retirm, the more freely to enjoy his unnatural Lust, Lust too shocking to be ex pressm! What thstik you of aelio^auu? He was not satisfy"*d with all the Lusts that his Predecessors had pursued, but would alter even the Works of Nature j and, by the Att of his Surgeon, endeavour to convert his Favourite slave into a Woman, and marry*d him with all
the Pomp and Sacred Rites of the Roman Re ■ » »

You are ready to tell us of Athalia and hel, but take no manner of Notice of Daborah^ Judith, or any other of the scripture iietoines, Vho were eminent fpr great and brave Actions.
You fall upon the Education of Womankind to render them the more contemptible and odious. I do myself assow, that the Education of Women in these Parts, and in our Time, is very defective and faulty : But is that the Fault of Women? No certainly, it is the Defect of Men, who have the Direction of public Astairs. But it is a very unfair Way of Comparison to put the Men, who have had Education, against the Women who have none; and yet I appeal to any Man that knows conyersation, whether a Woman, coming from their Schools, be not more valuable Company than many a mere Scholar coming from the University, knowing nothing of Mankmd, and skilsd only in Words,
‘the fairest Way of examining the Merit of Man
r c. ..... : T:,
y it
[ Idd ]
and Woman is to confider them both without Education. Look among the Vulgar, and you shall find ten to one among the vvomcn, who have more sense and Prudence than their Husbands.
But that I may not be behindhand with you in Examples, I shall give you three from ancient History, of Fidelity and Constancy, which is a Virtue you almost deny the Sex, which yet you will Scarce find amongst the Men.
Plutarch, in his iv/om/f, furnishes me with two of those I shall mention, and in his Lives with the third.
Camma was a Galatian Lady of exquisite Beauty, but the Virtue and Constancy of her Mind far Surpassed the Charms of her person; she was marry*d to Cinnatus a Tetrarch, or petty Prince among the Galatians; the Love was mutual between them both, but her Charms extended farther by much than she desired j for they had made So entire a Conquest over norix, that he could not think of any Happiness without the Posseshon of her; to obtain which, he employ’d all his Arts, his Cunning, and Importunity, but to no purpose; she remain’d untouch’d with all his amorous Addresses, and made it evident to him how much she detested his Criminal Endeavours; but this enssam’d his Love into Rage, and push’d him on to murder her Husband Cinnatus, upon which she ssed to the Temple of Diana, and there secur’d herself, by becoming a Votary to that goadess, according to the Custom of the Country.
She rejected all the Solicitations of those numerous Lovers, whom her Beauty had rais’d tp admire her. At last, Synorix, hoping the Memory
[ ]
mory of what he had done was pretty well over, venturi to her, and renew’d his Suit, assuring her that it was no Malice, no Revenge, no little Interest that had prevail’d with him to destroy Cinnatus, but the absolute Despair of ob" taining her any other way; that if in that he had been guilty of a Crime, she had the least reason to accuse him of all humane kind, since it was the Effect: of her Charms.
She seem’d to admit all he Said, as a Truth not to be controverted, and therefore Soon agreed to marry him. The Ceremony was to be perform’d in that Temple of Diana., where she had So long resided; among which Ceremonies, the drinking to her future Husband, was one; Cantma had prepar’d a Draught in which there was mix’d a deadly poison, half of it she drank ' off to him, and he Soon pledg’d her in the other half. We have gone far enoughs say s she; and nowy my dear Cinnatus, I have revengd thy Death, though by the Lcf of my oven Life, the Life that has only been thus long tolerable to me, in hopes to obtain this Event, vohich is nove come to pafs. In short, the Murderer Soon dy’d full of Rage, and she Soon follow’d with a great deal of Satisfaction.
The next Instance I shall give you, is out of the Lives of Plutarch. Cleombrotm being son-in-law to Leonidas, King of Sparta, was made King in his Room, and Coilegue with Agis. On another Turn, Leonidas was restor’d, and. Agis fled to the Temple of funo, and cleomhro tus to that of Neptune. Leonidas, now incens’d against his son in.daw, meddled not with Agis, but, with his Soldiers, went to the Sanduary of Cleombrotus, and there, with great Passion, rc jproach’d him with conipiring with his Enemies,
usurping
[ z ]
usurpjng his Throne, and forcing him from his Country, though he was his son-in-law. cleom’ hrotus^ having little to Say for hjmself, stood fi lent. His Wife Chelonis, the Daughter cf leont das, had been a, Partner in her father’s suste rings; for when Cleombrotut ufurp’d the king dosti she Ibrfook him, and wholly apply’d herself to comfort her Father in his Affliction; whilst he was in Sanduary she stay’d with him, and when he fled she fled with him, bewailing his Misfortune, and extremely displeas’d with Cleombrotus. But now, upon this Turn of Fortune, she was zealous and assiduous in Expressions of Love and Duty to her Husband, whom she embrac’d with one Arm, and her two little Children with the other: All Men were strangely taken with the Piety and tender Astbdion of the young Woman, who, in a loose neglected Mourning, with a pale dejected Countenance, and in a Suppliant Posture, Spoke thus to Leonidas.
“I am not brought to this Condition you See me in, nor have taken upon me this Mour “ning Habit, by reason of the present misfor tunes of Cleombrotus; it is long since fami liar to me, * it was put on to condole with you in your Banishment, and now you are restored to your Country and Kingdom, must ‘‘ I still remain in Grief and misery? Or would you have me attir’d in my Festival Ornaments ‘‘ that I may rejoice with you, when you have ^ kilsd, within mv Arms, the Man to whom you gave me tor a Wife? Either Cleombrotus “must appease you by mine or my Childrens “Tears, or he must Sstster a Punishment greater than his Faults deserv’d, he shall infallibly see ^ me die before him, whom he has profess’d ten!
!
[ 1^9 ]
derly to love. To what End should I live? or how shall I, appear among the “Ladies, when it shall So manifestly be seen
** I have not been able to move Compassion either in a hlisband or a Father? I was “born, it Seems, to be dishonourm and dif grac’d, both as a Wife and a Daughter, with “that Relation which is nearest to me in each Capacity. As for Cleomhrotns^ I have Sufficient ‘‘ ly disown’d his cause, when I fotsook him to “follow you; but now yourself will justify his Proceedings, by showing to the World, that for the Sake Of a Kingdom, it is just to kill a son-in-law, and be regardlels of a Daughter. Cheknis having ended the Lamentation, turn’d her weeping Eyes towards the Spedators, then gently repos’d her Head on her husband’s bosom. Lemidoi, touch’d with Compassion, withdrew a while to advdse with his Friends; then returning, condemn’d Cleombrotus to a perpetual Banishment. Chelonis, he Said, ought to stay with him, it not being just that she ssiould forsake a Father, who had granted, at her inter ceffion, the Life of her Husband. But all he could Say, could not prevail with her to stay.; she took up, immediately, one of her Children in her Arms, and gave the other to her huf band: Then, having perform’d her Devotions at the Altar where she had taken Sanduary, she chearfuljy follow’d him into Banishment — — — To tie short. So great was the Virtue and ge uerofity exprefs’d by Chelonis, on this Occasion, that if cleombrotusr\ot strangely blinded by Ambition, he would chuse to be banish’d with So excellent a Woman, rather than without het.
to poffess a Kingdom.
I shall
[ zyo ]
_ ^
I shall only add one History more out of the same Author; and that is of Emfonny a princess among the Galatians who being marry’d to Sahinm, a young Nobleman of Rome, had the Misfortune Soon after to have her Husband engag’d in a Revolt against Vefjfajtan the Emperor, and to miscarry in his Attempt lb far, that he •was fain to ssy for his Life, and had no Hopes left of Security against the pursust of his Enemies, but by giving out among his Servants that he defign’d to poison himstlf, * and dismissing all but two, in whom he particularly confided, he retir’d to a country house of his, where there were very large and deep Vaults, and whither he had convey’d the most valuable of his Esteds. Entringthefe Vaults, he Sent one of his Servants to tell his Wife, that he had taken poison, and that the house being burnt to the Ground, had consum’d his Body. His Wife receiv’d the News with the utmost Grief and despair, which daily grew to Such an excess, that is was to be fear’d she wmuld not long Survive it i of which Sabinus being inform’d, he order’d his faithful Servant privately to info/m her of the Secret of his Life and Aboad, adding this Caution, that she should take care to continue the Appearance of her Sorrow, to confirm the World in the Opinion of his imagin’d Deathand this she perform’d with that artfull address, that it was universally believ’d that Sabinus was no more.
But Empona was sh impatient for the Sight of her Husband, that in the nighttime she constantly went to See him, and Spent many Hours with him in the dismal Caverns of his Retreat, still taking care to return to her own
Apart
C 171 ]
Apartment in the City, without the least Discovery. In this manner she Spent her Time for at least nine Months, when she was brought to bed, without any Help, of two lovely Boys, one of which liv’d in the Time of our Author; but impatient for her husband’s Safety, shaving his Beard, she dressed him up in women’s Apparel, and carry’d him with her to Rome, in Hopes to procure his Pardon, by her earnest Solicitations of the Emperor; but Vefpajian was a Prince too jealous of Empire, ever to forgive a Crime of that Nature, * So that she Sent her Husband back to his lurldng Place, and try’d farther herself what she could do. In this Negotiation her Love urg’d her to Such Expressions, as provok’d the Emperor to put her to Death, assuring him that she had rather die than live to see him Emperor.
Well, Myfogamus, What think yteu of the Constancy of Womankind, from these three Examples? Will you enlist on the Efhefian Matron, a mere Fiction, as a Proof of the Inconstancy of the Sex, and yet not allow these true Histories as an Evidence of the contrary? If you tell us of Mejfa^ Una, give me leave to put you in Mind of Lucretia. So eminent for her Chastity, that it is grown into a Proverb, As chafle as Lucretia. What think you of Portia, the Wife of the Second Brutus? Did not she discover more than a manly Constancy in her Death? Did she not prove that Secrets of the highest and most dangerous consequences might be confided to a .Woman, when her Husband Brutus trusted her with the whole conspiracy against Cafar? these, you’ll say, are but particular Vshmen, and afford but little Advantage to the Generality
C ]
lity ds the Sex: 1 grant they are particufah biit so are all those Instances you have given of their Vices and Follies; we are therefore, in that ipoint, upon a Level.
I shall give you, ex aftnndante^ Ibme Examples of Bodies of Women, who have foin’4 in great and glorious Actions: The in
a Battle with tlreir Enerhies, were worsted and fled away before them, till they were stopped by the Virgins and Matrons of that Country, who, reproaching them with thest Cowardice, crym, xdkhifher luiu ye fly I jehat! into the Wombs that bore you, from the Lerr or of your Poe? who are terrible mly by your Pear: Lurn therefore Again m.d. fight manfully for your Mothers, your Wives, and yottr Children, or elfe give us your Weapons to defind our ’ selves, and refine the Glory of the Persian na?ne. Toueffd with this Valour of the Women, they made Head against the Enemy; and So turning the Fortune of the Pay, ' obtained a glorioujs Victory.
When Komttlus had found in Rome he had but little prosped of making it continue longer than the Lives of his present Subjects, for he wanted Women to produce a Posterity, the neighbouring Cities and Countries refussng their Daughters for their Wives, looking on them to be a Scandalous Company of Fellows got together out of ail Italy by the asylum Set up by Romulus', he exhibited Shows and Spedacles, which brought great Numbers of the Sabine young Women to behold them j and, upon a Sign given, the Romans seiz’d each a sakme Woman for his Wife, and carry’d them eff to Rom The Sabines, a warlike People, Soon took to their Arpas to revenge the Affront, and reseue the
Women
C ^71 ]
Women. Most terriblcj certainly, had been the Slaughter, and, perhaps, fatal to the infant State of komcy had not lierjiliay and the rest of the Sabine Women, who had been thus ravished by the Romans, come into the Field of Battle betwixt both Armies, and with most patheticfc Addresses to their Parents and Relations on one Side, and their Husbands on the other, brought them to a friendly Parley, * and So in the End united both Nations.
Conrade, the third Emperor of Germany, besieging Guelpho, Duke of Ravaria, reduced the Town to that Extremity, that the Duke was fain to Submit to a Parley. But all the Terms h could obtain, were, that the Women should depart in Peace, bearing with them only So much of their most valuable Goods as each could carry off: The dutchess therefore, and the rest of that Sex, from the Highest to the Lowest, went out, bearing each on her Back her huf band. Being come out of the Town thus loaded, the Emperor was So touched with the gene roficy of the Action, that he forgave the Duke, and receiv’d him ever after into peculiar Favour.
You have objected to the Sex Ignorance, * but that, in reality, is not a Fault in woman kind, but in the Men, who deny them all those Improvements of Knowledge and Learning which they enjoy, and are So proud of themselves; and yet I could enumerate a long Roll of Women, illustrious in every Part of Literature, but that Time and my Memory forbid me at this present. I shall only mention a very few that occur; What think you of Deborah, So learned in the Law? of the Israelites, that she judged
T Ifiaet
r
>
Cm ]
Israel for Several Years.? nor was that Nation ever more prosperous, till the Time of David ot Solomon. She was likewise an excellent poetess, as her Sublime Song on’the Destruction of Sisera by yaelihovos. What think you of Pheano, the Wife of Pythagoras, who taught his School in phi losophy aster his Death? We must not omit Afpajia, the Athenian courtesan, So eminent for her Learning, both in philosophy and Politics, that the greatest Men of that Age were instriksted by her in both.
How many of the Grecian Women were excellent in Poetry? Safpho, Erinna, Corinna, and many more, are Sufficient Proofs of this Truth. The great Pindar was instriidted in the Art of Poetry by a Woman : And Corinna, his Contemporary, often reproach’d him in his Youth, that he did not understand what it was to be a Poet, Spending all his Time and Pains in the Study of Words and Expressions, never producing one Proof that he was able to form a Fable, which was the principal Duty and cha raderistick of a Poet, and without which he could only pretend to be a mere Versifier. But let us pass from Greece to Rome; there we find Cornelia, the Mother of the Gracchi, instruding her Sons, Cairn and Ptberim, in Eloquence, and in Virtue, and in resolution, by which they made the last stand for the true Liberty of Rome ', for, on their Death, the Balance of Power turn’d entirely to the Nobility, by the Destrudion of the Agyrarian Law. To come to the Moderns. I
can’t omit Anna Maria van Schurman, a Plemijh
Lady, whose learned Writings were in greatesteem among Men of Letters above a Century ago, * among which is a Defence of her own Sex, written in eloquent Latin. The next I shall
mention.
C ^75 ]
mention, Sori must draw to an End, is the present learned Madam Dacier, who is So great a mistress of the Greek, that she has given us admirable Versions of Homer and Sophocles; besides many learned discourses, which prove her to be one of the foremost Critics of the Age.
I shall conclude with England, where, among the Learned, we shall find the Daughter of Sir Phomas More in the Time of King Henry VIIL the iminortal Queen Eliz, aheth and in later Times, the Lady Packington, Author of Lhe Whole Duty of Man. In Poetry likewise many of our English Ladies have been eminent, as cowley’s famm Orinda, Mxs. Apharra Behn, who seemm to have the Soul of Sappho transfusm into her. Here I must not omit the admirable Mrs. Singer, as chaste in her Writings, as nervous and Sublime. I might mention others still living, but these are Sufficient to prove, that Ignorance is not always the Crime of the Ladies; and that the finest Arts and Sciences shine Sometimes in that Sex.
But you press hard, that no Woman was ever yet a patroness of Learning. I confess I am not able to give any particular Instances of the contrary but this I can Say, that the Men have but very little reason to boast of any Advantage above them in that Particular, that for two thousand Years, excepting the State, and the Reign of Auguflm Cafar, there have not appear’d ten Men worthy the Name of Patrons of Arts.
Here Philogamus made an End, and myfoga mpti was preparing to return him an answef, when Sir yohn Friendly s Man came up to my Chambers, and told me his Master was coming
T 2 to
4
[ ]
to pay me a Visit, if I was not other ways engag’d. I order’d my Man to go down to Sir ^ohuy and desire his Company, since the Gout would not permit me to wait on him myself. This put an End to our dispute, and the two Pleaders for and against Women took their Leaves, unconvinc’d, like other Disputants, by each others Arguments. Thus I have Sent you a Letter as long as I threaten’d, and shall only add to it, that I am
Tour faithful Priendy
and humble ser’vanty
P H IL I P N E IT H E R S ID E.
I
LETTER VI
On BE AUTY.
Forma bonum fragile — —
O Formofe puer nimium northeast crede colori.
To Mr. Clearwit at his Chambers in
lincolnvinn.
Dear Friendy
YOU tell me, in yours of the fifteenth
past, that you desire to exercise your
Talent in Poetry upon the following Subject.
That
C ^77 ]
That thd. au People agree that Beauty is to he ad. mir dy yet no one has told us ixshat Beauty is or have fixed any Standard of it.
You tell me that you have try’d in vain to please }’’ourself in writing upon it, and therefore depute the Task to your humble Servant. 1 must consess, it is with a great deal of Reluctance that I can think of denying you anything; but I must be So free as to declare, that, in my Opinion, this is, by no means, a Subject for Poetry j at least, for any Poetry above an 'Epigram : Tis true, Coiuley has played upon it wantonly enough, but I think with no Poetical Genius : Be you the Judge, these are his Words.
— — Beauty, thou wildfantajiick Ape,
ivho dd.fi in every Country change thy Shape:
Here Black, there Brown, here Lawney, and there
White.
Ifhou Flatterer, who comply fl with every Sight,
jeho haji no certain what, nor where, Y
But vary fi fail, and dd.fl thyself declare >
Inconfiant, as thy She profeffors are. j
Cowley here tells us of the Uncertainty what Beauty is, but proceeds not by Ratiocination to Solve the Riddle propos’d; that is, how we come to admire it without a Definidon of it. Pie plainly Saw that was too uncouth and barren a Subjeff for verse; nor, indeed, do I see any Curiosity in it that is worthy our Inquiry, even in prose. Your Friend Seems to me to mistake the Matter quite, in Supposing that to love a beautiful Object, without knowing what Beauty is, implies a sort of Contradiction, as if Inclina
don and Knowledge were So inseparable, that
"T 3 they
1178 ]
they could not Subfiil asunder. I would fash ask him, whether year not ail Sensible of Light and Heat, though Sew but the Learned can give a Definition of either: And therefore his Qiiestion, of how it comes to pass that we love Beauty without knowing what it is, is easily answer’d, by assuring him that it is the Estedt of
that Inclination which Nature has fix’d in all
* • *
'Men towards the fair Sex; and tho’, perhaps, it cannot be deduc’d to a general Definition, yet every Man in Love will be able to describe the Beauties of his Charmer. Dryden says thus on Beauty.
\
«
Lhe Cause cf Love ctin never be rijjigndj. Lis in no Face, but in the Lover s Mind.
• V
But I must dissent from this great Poet, because it is the Beauty of the mistress that first fixes herself in the Mind of the Lover j for that there is Such a Thing as real Beauty, there is no manner of Question. Ask the Painters and the Statuaries, they will tell you the Features and Proportions that corapose this perfect Beauty. Apedes, when he drew his Venus, the Wonder of the old World, fram’d So perfect an Idea of Beauty, that all the Women of Greece and Asia could not furnish him with an Original to copy; he therefore took the most excellent Features he could find in the most beautiful Women of his Age, and put them together in one Figure with that address and Art, that he made it worthy of, the goddess of Beauty. This shows plainly that we are not So much to Seek what Beauty is, nor in the Features nor Proportions that com ppse it, as your mistaken Friend Seems to imagine[
[ ]
ginc. Again we have extant the Afhroditey or Venus of the Statuary Arifiomsnes; the
Original is in the Hands of the Duke of Puf' cany, excellent Copies of which have been dif pers^’d among us by our English Phidim, Mr. Bird. This is another Proof that we are not destitute of a certain Standard for Beauty; I shall therefore take no notice of the Venus of Caraccio, in the Hands of the present Duke of Buckinghamjhire, but proceed to show that Poetry like wife has given. us an exa6t Portraiture of Beauty, as the following Lines will show.
Mark how their Statures due Proportion know.
Nor rise too high, nor Jink too meanly low;
No meagre bony saws deform the Face,
Nor pttjiy Sides the taper Shape disgrace, C
But every Part alike becomes its Place. j
Behold how lovely smooth the Forehead Jhines, ^
How milky white the soft Descent inclines, >
How fitly to the sparkling Eyes it joins; j
While gaily pleasing they, and sweetly bright,
Fill each Beholder s Heart with dear Delight.
See on the bloomy Cheeks so frejhly spread.
So duly mixed the native White and Red :
Mark what full Roses on the Lips appear.
What Sweets they breath, what balmy Dew they
(wear.
But lojl and endless were my Pains to trace She vaji Infinity of Beauty s Grace.
Why Should the Muse in lavijh Numbers speak she golden Lrejfes, or the ivry Neck I Wloy Should the bajhful Nymph attempt to tell,. What soft round Globes on rijing Bosoms swell??
4 What
[ io ]
pvhat secret Charms -- -- - Jtnce Modejly denies.
And bars the bold Access of ’oeanton Eyes:
Blujhing voith decent Grace, her Veil jbe draws.
And fields the Fair from Shame, by Cujloms reverend
Laws.
It is this Beauty that has those wonderful Esteds mentioffd by the Poets, and commands the Admiration of all that behold it, as Spncer describes it in the following Lines.
Nought under Heaven Jo firongly doth allure she Sense of Man, and all his Mind fojjefs.
As beauty*s lovely Bait, that doth Procure,
Great vvarriors of their Rigour to repress.
And mighty Hands forget their Manliness; Drawn with the Power of an heart robbing Eye, And wrapped in Fetters of a golden irefs,
That can with melting Pleafance mollify
Their hardend Hearts, inur d to Blood and Cruelty.
So whilom leaned d that mighty Jewifk Swain, Each of whose Jocks did match a Man of Might, Trio lay his Spoils before his Leman s Brain:
So also did the great Cetean Knight,
Vor his lovd.s Sake his Lion s Skin undight.
And so did warlike Anthony negleb "The worlds whole Rule for cleopatrav Sight. Such wondrous Power has woman*s fair afpeb, To captive Men, and make them all the World
{aeglesl.
This is Sufficient to Say upon the Force of Beauty, whose rightful Power no Body ever yet
deny d, and your Friend himself Seems fairly to ^ehnowledge.
[ Itl ]
He may, perhaps, object, that Women, with little or no Beauty, have ha strange Power over Men; but that comes not under this question: To make a material Objection, he should produce Proofs of Beauty unregarded, and without that Power. He may, perhaps, upon this Occasion, have recoursc to the quinslia of Catullus; who, he Says, was tall and handsome, but had not So much as Mica Satis, a Corn of Salt in her whole Bulk. By this Corn of Salt, I Suppose, Catullus means Grace, Air, Mein, the Sweet Result of all the Charms of Face and
I
Body, it strikes the Eye and Heart. But we must observe, that Catullus does not deny the Power of ^tinsiid.s Eyes, but lessens her Charms, only to raise those of his Lesbia.
I shall conclude with this Advice to your Friend, never to offer an argumentative Subject for Poetry, where there is no room for Images
and Fable, I am
Xour Faithful Friend.
Jonathan pairiyi
0
_* ^
ft
j
V
[ isi ]
LETTER VII
On Drinking,
i •
Poecmdi Calices quem non fecere difertum?
t ^ •
To Roger Drink water Esq; at his jioufe in
Hanover square.
% ' * *
. V -
M.d. dear sober Roc e r, '
ireceiv^’d your Letter of the i ft of this Month, which I believe you writ after you had extinguish’d all your Fire with a Quart or two of spring water, * a Liquor that might have been pleasant enough when Adatn liv’d in para dise, that was a warm Country, ' and afforded no more agreeable Beveridge. But, my Dear, you must confider, we live in a cold Climate, where the Waters are frozen up once a Year, and retain the chilling Quality of the Ice all die rest of it. I am in a shuddering Sit at the very Thoughts of Water! why, stis the Liquor of Beasts, not Men; and the poor Animals guzzle it up just to Satisfy the Drought of Nature, and know no better; hut my horse is a wiser Creature, offer him on the Road Water, or good Ale, ^ he will certainly chuse the latter.
L am for old Noah, the Second Father of Humankind, he found out the valuable Juice of the Grape, and made the first Experiment of its Power himfelfi As to the Antediluvian Fathers,
[ ^^3 ]
»
thers, I think they had an End worthy of their Lives; for as they drank nothing but Water, So they made their Exit in Water. I don^’t know, but if they had found out Wine, and drank it, they might have favm the World from being drown’d. But be that as it will, I will leave it to the wife Controvertists of the Times, on which they might entertain the World with far more agreeable, and much less detrimental Speculations than now they do. What think you, my Boy, of old Father Kacchm? The wife gre ciansj who civiliz’d and polish’d all this Part of the world, made him a Cod for his teaching them the Joys of good Drinking, which they improv’d to the utmost Perfection. In the Evening the Goblet went round, and supply’d the absence of the Sun with Warmth more kindly and enlivening; then crown’d with Chaplets of Flowers, they drank to their Mistresses Healths as many Glasses in Hand, as there were Letters in her Name.
V
’twas to the Juice of the Vine that the Greek Poets ow’d all their Inspiration, that was the hypcchrine.j the Helicon and the Fountain of Aganippe, ' the drinking of which made them write So well; for those were but the. Names of Several Vineyards upon Mount Parnajfm^ which yielded the best Wine in all Greece. Elevated by this, old Anacreon writ those charming Odes which transport us to this Day. In short, the reason why the Greeks excell’d all other Poets, is because they drank better than other Poets.
But we are not without our fighting Heroes that were eminent for Drinking. What think you of the brave Macedonian Youihy Alexander
the
[ z84 ]
the Great? He and his Officers, warm’d with Greek Wine, pass’d the Grannick Flood, and drove a Million before him o’er the Plain : By good Drinking they got the Empire of ajta.^ and freed Greece from her perpetual Fears of the Grand Monarch of those Times.
But what need we run back So far in Time and Place to prove the Excellence of good Drinking, since we may easily discover that to be fix’d in its Nature by our own Experience? The Advantages it yields to Mankind are innumerable. Does Chloris prove false?? Phillis prove cruel? Have recourse to the Bottle, and you despise the Jilt, and laugh at the Coquet. Does my Lord Haughty overlook you? The Second Bottle raises you above the insolent Pageant. Are ye troubled with the Folly of bash fulnefs.^ Drink but quantum fufficit, and you gain Astiirance enough to be impertinent with the Fair and the Great. Does your Modesty deny your Tongue the graceful Utterance of your Thoughts? Drink but Wine enough, you’ll be more eloquent than Cicere. This puts me in Mind of a Story of Sir Lho mas More, who being Sent Ambassador to the Emperor by King Henry the Eighth, the Morning he was to have his Audience, knowing the Virtue of Wine, order’d his Servant to give him a good large glass of Sack and having drank that, call’d for another: The Servant, with officious Ignorance, would have dissuaded him from it, but in vainj the Ambassador drank off the Second, and demanded a third, which he likewise drank off; infisting on a fourth, he was over perfuaded by his Servant to let it alone; So he went to his Audience.
i
But returning home again, called for his Servant,
and
C i8j ]
and threatening him with his Cane, Tou Rogue,
Said he, u'hat Mifcloief have you done me / I poke so 'Well to the Emperor, on the Inspiration of those three Glajfes that I drank, that he told me I was Jit to govern three Parts of the World. Now, you Dog, if / had drank the fourth Glass, I had been Jit to gor vern all the World.
I could tell you of a certain statesman that: made once a great Noise in the World, who sorm’d all his political Schemes over a Bottle; when Company was gone, he order’d Pen, Ink and Paper to be brought him, and four Bottles of Wine, with a Pipe of Tobacco indeed to help out; and folie writ, drank and smoak’d, till his Liquor was out, and then he went to Bed. By these Politics was a Nation govern’d Some time j and not a few say, very wisely; but as to that I don’t pretend to give my Opinion: But if there were any Faults in his Ministry, I am sure of this, they were owing to himself, and not his Liquor.
Courage has been inspired in our modern Days by good Liquor; for the Dutch had never maintain’d themselves so well against our Fleet, and oftentimes worsted us under Van ftrump and De Rutter, but that the Morning before they engag’d, they out drank us.
But I have one thing to say to you, which I had forgot, and which relates to yourself. I know you have a mighty Inclination to Poetry; but if you would have your Verses live, you must leave off drinking of Water; since your Master Horace says, That no verses can live long that are written by Water drinkers. I am just call’d down to Some Friends with whom I shall
pass Some merry Hou; : s over a Bottle of Burgundy.

. I ]
dy, and therefore must draw to an End, only advising thee, in short, to leave the mere Element, and come to the Juice of the Grape. Drink and forget thy Sorrows, for this World is too ridiculous and fantastical to be Serious in; but I am Soberly and Serioussy
tihy faithful Friend,
•timothy break of day.
LETTER VIII
«
On bundnefs.
^ ft'
-- -- -- jvhy ’v^us the Sight
To fach a tender Ball as tp Eye confitid.
So obvious, and so easy to be quencfd?
And not, as Feeling, through all Parts diffus d,
'float Jhe might look at voill through every Pore?
Milton
>
4.
To Mrs. M -- -- -- -- -- dale on Lambeth hilk
London.
% A
Madam,
That I stave not writ to you all this
while, has been occafionm by the badness of my Sight, which has now left me in an absolute blindness: : See no more the glorious Sun, the ssow’ry Meads and purling Brocks, nor human Face divine, as Milton has it. 1 think that
great
✓
[ z87 ]
great Poet, though he has written admirably upon the loss of Sight, Seems too uneasy under his Misfortune, and to repine at that dis pensation of Providence, * but I, who have all along refigffd myself to the Will of Heaven, endeavour to make every Disappointment as little troublesome as .1 can; and to find out all the Advantages that a Misfortune can assbrd me. Thus I trouble not myself with anxious Thoughts of the good Things I have lost, but six in my Mind the uneasy Objects that Sight often gives us.
This Sense frequently misseads us to Partiality in our Favours by the Smooth Appearance and hypocritical Countenance of those we converse with, which prepares us to receive all they Say and oster with too much Indulgence; Loquere nt te ’videam^ was the saying of a Wise Man; that is, (for I forgot I was writing to a Lady) peak that I may see thee. For, indeed, the Eyes bring to our Knowledge only the Body, but the Ear conveys to us the Soul of the person that Speaks, * by them we find whether he be a Man of sense, Judgement, Wit and Learning; and by a frequent and long Conversation with him, informs us whether he be led by the Principles of Honour and Honeity, or by the looser Maxims of the Age; for it is a difficult matter for the most cunning Hypocrite to disguise himself So far, but that a Man of Judgement will by Some Words or other, at least in his unguarded Hours, discover the Cheat.
There is another Evil the Loss of Sight has delivered me from, and that relates to your Sex, Madam, and that is the tyrannic Power of Beauty of the Body; all whose bevv^itching
I Charms
- *
[188]
Charms are of no Effetst to a blind Man, * the finest Eyes in the World arc not capable of corrupting my Virtue, or betraying my Understanding to dote on a Fool: It robs indeed the Fair of their Surest Means of Conquest, ^ that is, their beautiful Appearance, by which so many of the Sons of Adam have, like him, been undone; there may perhaps have been Some Men who could not be So deeply wounded by the Beauty of a Woman, but that her Folly was able to cure them. I have heard a Story of Sir yehn Suckling much to this purpose : Fie made a Visit to Counsellor Gihhxy whose Place oblig’d him to live in the Lovier : The happen’d
not to be at home, and his Lady thinking very much to oblige him, and to free herself of the Trouble, told him, that there was below the most beautiful young Lady that ever she Saw, who being a Client to her Flusband, waited for his Return all alone. The Knight, fond of the ‘opportunity, runs immediately down to her, but in less than a quarter of an Hour came Swearing upstairs as if he had been distraded. Coming into the Room to the counsellor’s Lady, Well, Sir yohn^ Says she. What! So soon weary of a pretty Woman? Damn her, Said he, she has talk’d me out of her Face: I Said all the fine Things I could think of, but I could get nothing from her, but how many Eggs they Sold 4i penny at Newcafile. In short, her Folly was So great, that it Soon extinguish’d the Flames her Charms had kindled.
One Advantage I have from this Misfortune relates to yourself. The first Impressions of things are generally the most deep and lasting j and we more easily retain the Memory of
what
iz89]
#
what pleas’d us in our younger Days, than of those things we See and take Notice of in our maturer Years; whether it be that as we grow in Years, Objects multiply So much, that the Number makes us take the less Notice of Particulars 5 or that the Mind indeed is more capable of deep Impressions in our Youth, than ever after: Thus it is in relation to yourself. I have already almost forgot the Several Melancholy Changes that Time and an ill Husband have niade in your Face; and now you appear to me the Same fine Mrs. Cornelia I thought you when Lfirst Saw you. Oh, that Bloom of Youth, and those enchanting Beauties that use to charm and conquer every Beholder 1 the Malice of five and twenty Years has lost all its Force, and you now Seem as transporting as ever; but this you’ll Say is a Benefit of blindness, which affords me but very little Advantage; since, tho’ I cannot See the Esteds of ybiir Decay, yet those of mine are too visible to your Eyes, * you See me grown old, sick, lame and blind, and cannot therefore persuade yourself to dream of my Youth and Vigour, as I do of yours. But I must tell ybu, that I am not So much disappointed in that, as you may imagine, • for I Seek hot to prefer myself to you as a Lover, but am fatisfy’d that my Memory offers me rather a pleasing than a disagreeable Object: I have Seen enough not to be uneasy that I can see no more; the Eye presents us with the Same things over and over again; and if there be any Variety in them, it is gerlyrally but to add to our Pain and disquiet, and distrad us with trpuble some Thoughts and Desires; whereas now I can collect ihy Thoughts, and givemyself uptothd
V Cont
^90 1
Contemplations, of reasoning without Interruption.
This is the Way that I take to make my Life as easy as I can, and comfort myself with this Thought, that I can yet converse with my Friends of both Sexes, ‘ in which Number I shall always place you, whilst I am
Tour faithful humble Servant
Indolent Easy.
LETTER IX
• •
On the Vulgar
t
^ A Paradox.;
ddi profanmn vulgus &
Be gone profanoy I hate you all.
Both the Great Vulgary and the Small.
\ To Anthony Vainman Efqi to be left at
Button’/ coffeeaoufey Covent-garden.
deartony.
YO U send me Word, that you have had
a Play lately acted, which has taken wonderfully with the Town j that it was received with mighty applause, not only by the Vulgar, but by the Men of Wit, persons of
the first Quality of both Sexes; and that it is
grown
[ ipl ]
grown a Crime, and Mark of afsedlation, not to go along with the Vogue in its praise; at the Same time you test me, that it has no manner of Plot, but Subfists by the Force of its extraordinary Wit, and briskness of Dialogue. This makes me think, my Friend Anthonyy that you are in Danger as well as your great Persons, and your Wits, to fall into the Number of the Vulgar; for of that Rank are all Such, who Squander their Applause on artless Trifles, and Such Things as do not merit it in the Judgement of Men of Knowledge. But you Say, this is a Play of Merit, full of Wit from one En to Fother; but I must Say with a great Judge in his elsay on Poetry, Phat rather than cill ivity let there he none at all. Therefore if you would
* V ^
have it pass for a good Play with me, you should tell me of its Humour, Nature, and its just Design, which, if it want, cis at best but a Coiledipn of witty Dialogues. Sir George Vtherege, as great as his Reputation was, could not escape the Reproach of the Men of Judgement of his Time; one of whom fiiys. That he writ three talking Plays without one Plot,, * yet those three Plays are not altogether without Plot and Humour. But I shall not pretend tq decide the Merits of this Play, till I have read it i and what I have Said, has been the Estedst of your false praise of it, not the author’s Demerits. To praise a Man in a wrong Place, is often to do him an Injury; and So is Sometimes raken by Authors of Knowledge and Art. Thus Liician writ his Zeuxis against a person who had mightily cry’d up his dislion., without taking any Notice of his Art and judge ipent in forming the Dessgn, and the Qrdonance
V 2 ' ......... of
[ 3^9^ 3
pf its Parts. This Sort of Panegyrists are generally Men that have only a Smattering irj Learning and Wit, and in their censures blindly follow the Dictates of their own Fancy, un direded by Art and Judement. And this is the most troublesome Part of the Vulgar, as the most capable of doing an Author mischief, by that Reputation they have of being Men df ' Wit and Spirit.
But that we may not wander in the Dark, and be amus’d with empty Words, I shall endeavour to show you what it is I mean by the
__ _. ^ ‘ V ^ ^ V * « ^ -

Cowley, in his paraphrastick Translation pf florace, has very justly divided them into the great Vulgar and the small. There is no Difficulty m our distinguishing the small Vulgar, it takes in all the Rabble of Mankind, Things of humane Shape, tho’ Ignorance has levelsd them with the Brutes; these are the Mechanieks, and the rest of the People of mean and low Station: And yet this part of the Vulgar, following the pidates of mere Nature, often judge right, as Horace }ong iagp obferv’d,
Efi uhi rebe judicat popultis, efi ubi peccaf
But those whom I call the great Vulgar, haying stifled their Sense Of the Dictates of pure Nature, by a Conceit of themselves, the Power pf Custorh, and their false Opinion of Excellence, Seldom or never judge rightly of the Performances of Art, * this leads ine to explain what I mean by the great Vulgar. I mean, therefore, all such who are ignorant in the fine
Arts, and hae no true Taste of them, let their
'r ' i • • •»
‘ ■ For[
[ ]
'Fortune, their Birth, and their Qtiality be what it will. I confess this brings in much the greater Part of those who decide the Fate of Authors; this takes in, Tm afraid to Speak aloud, I only whisper it to you, almost the whole Body of Womankind, at least, in our Nation, where the Ladies have more engaging Enjoyments to pass their Time in, than in informing their Understandings: There was a Time, indeed, a great while ago, and a great way off, in a Town call’d Athens and another call’d Rome, when and where the fair Sex thought the Ornaments of the Body, and their personal Charms, insufficient, without adding the Beauties of the Mind. But here the Women think it enough, that their Adorers tell em they have Wit and Beauty; and that they are fitly qualified for Judges of the greatest Performances. But let them grow as proud as they please with the vain Flatteries of their fenseless Adorers; they are, in short, but Part of the Vulgar, unless they exalt themselves, by improving their Minds with Knowledge and Art.
Alas I my Friend Anthony, there are a great many Men who pass with the Ignorant for Wits of the first-rate, who are, indeed, but part pf the Vulgar, tho’ they have run thro’ all the Authors of Antiquity, and have Virgil and ‘horace at their finger’s Ends. You shall know them by this, whenever they talk of those great Poets of Antiquity, whenever they praise them, it is for Some Single Expression, Some particular verse; or at most, for a fine Description -, but never Say anything of the Design of Virgil, or Homer, or Sophocles, or Euripides; that is what
they have no Taste ois; nor, indeed, any No
* > ' • * i ' .* •
t; on,
•
C m ]
* /
tion, tho’ ’t is in those that these great Poets excess ass Mankind; and by those only hav obtain’d the iminortdl Name of Poets. Another Part of this great Vulgar contains most of your merry Wits, whpse Talent is to lull the Severity of reason asteep, and amuse the Fancy only with Some burlesque, Some Ridicule, or the like: these Men never think justly nor finely, and yet they have, of late Days, had it in their power to ruin the Reputation of Men of Merit, and Set up their own Creatures as the Wonders of the Age, This is a modern Humpur, which has, indeed, as Sir William t’emple has observ’d, destroy’d all Solid Learning, ass just Notions, and Spread a false Taste of Arts and Sciences thro’ their numerous Readers. these are the
. F ' ' LI ■ ^ ' ' '
top Part of the great Vulgar, the Demogogues that lead ’em wherever they please; tho’ in my Opinion they are themselves the most infar tnous of their Party. To these I must ad<i the Pedants, that with a noisy Show of Latir^ and Greek persuade their ignorant Hearers that they are Men of prodigious Parts and Learning; a good Memory is generally their chief Talent,, that alsurance which they usually learn at their Alma Maters. I am afraid to meddle wdth the Clergy, lest they should stigmatise me with the Name of Atheist, or, at least, of Deists else, perhaps, I might Say, that there are too ■ many of them come within the Nurnber of the great Vulgar. I shall only add, that I advise thee, dear Leny, Severely to examine thyself, and try' how far distant you are yourself from this Number; admire no more the Versifiers of the Times, who are more delpicable Fellows than the very ballad makers of the Age. Pie corner and
Lendon
C ^95 ]
london hridge have more Poetry, than Some celebrated Shops I could name j for the Ballads generally go upon Some Story, Some Flirt, Some Design; the Versifiers upon none. Study Art, and by that learn to think justly. I hope there is nothing I have Said in this Letter So Severe as to make you call in question the Sincerity, with which I profess myself
%
tow faithful Friendy
%
William Briohtmani
^ *
\
FINIS.
\
%
</
#
►. \
<
s.
t
* ‘ V A ■ ^ r
♦
•. • >1^
3 0 0 K S lately pubuvdy and sold bj
J. Pemberton.
#
*
I. V Rigiiial Poems and Tranfiations. By the A most eminent Hands, njiz,, the late Earl Gedolfhin, Sir Samukl Garth, N Rdtue esqr" late Poet Laureate, M. Prior Elq; A. Manwarin^ esq; Mr. Pope, Mr Hughes, See. To which is added, jefculapius, or the hospital of Fools, A Dialogue, after the Manner of xmvr/z.
Dukes aute omnia Musa. Virg.
By the late pvilliam jvalfh, esq; The Second Edition. Price qr.
^ II The History of the most Noble Order of the Garter, and the feverai Orders of Knighthood extant in Europe. Containing, I. The Antiquity of the Town, Castle, Chapel, and College qiivindfor with their Several Officers : The Foundation of the Order by E.. Edward III The Statutes and Annals at large, as they have been alter’d and amended. II The Habits, Enssgns, and Officers of the Order : The Ceremonies of eledhon, Investiture, and Instalment of Knights; the Manner of their Feasts; and the Duties and Fees payable upon those occa fionsi Some Account of the Founders. With an exact List of all that have been install’d ssnee the Institution; and their Several Coats of Arms emblazon’d. Written at the Command of King Charles II by Elias Ajhniole esqj /^/w^r herald. Now compar’d with the author’s Corrections in his Library at Oxford, faithfully digested and continued down to the present Time. The whole illustrated with proper Sculptures, ' Smtili ■ Paper 'j s. 6 d. Large 12 s.
