' %
/ /
*
THE
f
CAUTIOUS LOVER.
m
V O L L
0
jr
«

THE
CAUTIOUS LOVER;
OR, .THE
HISTORY
o F
LORD WOBURN.
Sy a Young Gentleman of Oxford,
S N TWO VOLUMES.’
#
/
y o L I. DUBLIN?
Printed for J A M E S W I L L IA M S, at No, 5. in Skinner row.
•- in' • - ■ ^ L A:


THE
CAUTIOUS LOVER.
©OOOOOiSOOSO000^'000000^
LETTER I.
Lord Wo BURN to Mr. Wi L m o t.
0
And So you tell me that I am by Sar too nice, and of too resined a way of thinking to be happy. — My expedlations, you Say, are extravagant; perhaps they are; but till I See a probability of having those expectations answered, I Shall not add „ another Sool to the herd of miserable husbands— — - them talk till their tongues are weary about heirs j i can ado/>t whenever I please; I can dispose of my fortune extremely well without having any matrimo ^ 7iial connexions with that deceiver from the begin..
; a woman. It is true, I cannot leave my title i to my adopted Son, nor insure him all my estate, but I can leave him enough to satissy a reasonable man;
V besides, what care I for posterity? I am quite ^ of the old lady’s mind, who, when presied to think ' about the people who were to come after her, Said,
V “pr’ythee be quiet; I wonder when we Shall See ' i posterity do anything Sorus.” — The lady was probably an Hibernian, but her reply was not altogether a bad one. — I have not the leasl aversion to the
« M I S T O R Y O F
Sex; no man loves them better, from constitution or from tasle. We were, undoubtedly, designed by Nature to encrease each other’s pleasures, but we certainly, by our political connedions, contrive to multiply each other’s cares— — perhaps, you expect me to run on with a heap of invectives against the marriage slate; isyou expect any Severities from me against it, you will be mistaken— — marriage state is, I am very willing to own with you, a heaven Tipon earth, when those who enter into it are Suitable to each other in every respeu; but the infernal xnatches which one Sees in the world So much outnumber the celejhal ones, that the encouragements to an indissoluble union are Sewer and sev/ er every day — The women are become fb intolerably corrupt, that a man mull be absolutely mad who encumbers himself with a wise. — I have not yet, in -- deed even ventured upon a mistress, being almost certain that a mistress “labouring in her vocation, ” will endeavour to impose upon me. -- You know how much J hate to be duped, you will not wonder at my appre fjenfons which naturally throw me upon my guard.
“By these apprehensions you punisli yoursels cruelly, for the most exquisite joys in life are only to be found, in, the arms of a fine woman.” Not So Salt, my friend j I enjoy, I asture you, all the raptures which the finest woman in the universe can bestow — with her personal charms; but as to the transports arising sr@m congenial Souls, from the delicious fatisfadtions of mutual friendship, Satisfactions Supe ♦ Sior to all other sensations, 1 give them up, firmly believing that I Shall never find a Semale capa: ble of Such an exalted attachment.
There are a thousand women, you will tellme, who, in point of understanding, are little inferior to men of the brightest intellects, and whose minds have been cultivated in the poiitest Style — who, by the oftness of their manners, the gentleness of their dis positions, and the charming vivacity of their conver
L O R D W O B U R N: $
Table companions: — Granted — I chiefly, therefore, converse with such women. — Men are too apt to degenerate into brutes when left to their own mirth, mutually excited by coarse jokes, indelicate allusions,
and noisy impudence. ^^they are also inclined to
be ill humoured, and inhumane when they astociate only among themselves. — I therefore, always chuse a mixed company : the two lexes ever appear to most advantage when they meet together. -- But musl I tie myself to a woman for life, because I like her conversation? — No — certainly. — You will not, perhaps, be So violent an advocate for matrimony when you have been half a year united to your favourite Maria,
Adieu.
P, S. I am going to Spend a week or two with Sir Francis euston, at euston castle. — Let your next letter be directed to that place. — There will be a large party of us, I believe.
LETTER II
From the same to the Same.
I Thank you for So boldly taking up your pen in dc'. sense of women. — lamas much obliged to you for your panegyrics upon them, as they would be on hearing them because they give me an opportunity to vent my heterodox principles with the greater freedom. But I Shall not be contented merely to oppose my Sentiments to yours; I Shall illustrate the assertions I have thrown out by living examples — yet liow idly ilralli employ myself by dragging private delinquents from their retirements, and making a public exposure them, y/hen there are So many glaring probss of the falsehood and incontinence of women exhibited every day before .the world’s broad eye, of
4 inioivattiur
rity between the highest and the lowest statronsj * — that stmilarity may be, perhaps, easily accounted for — Xlat quantum of reputation in both is So extremely Small, that it is not worthy of their attention. People in the middle walks of life are only studious to keep up their characters— — many dutchestes, countesies, c;; .could I name, who, instead of being destrous of concealing their amours — same too rather plehaan^ — appear to glory in their disregard of decorum— — to a .country fair, or to a horse race, all the girls are common; as handsome as girls of the first fashion, though not So high bred, full as salse, as fickle, and as voluptuous. — The grand aim of thenj all, in Short, is to get as many men into their power as they can, and to change them as often as a capricious king changes his favourites— — after all. Jack, girls we mufl hare, but no wise; no mistress for me. I am for no tie upon earth; I live at large, and change my women as often as my clothes— — to Say truth, here are very handsoine ones in this part of the country— — mistake me j I do not mean millers wives and farmers daughters, but wcmen of distindlion, women who have Some of the best blood in the kingdom dancing in their veins, — I never was fond of your fine healthy fresh colcured blushing country girls 5 they are as know ing as the most accomplished women of quality can posfibly be, but are destitute of that elegance manner which is to me the irreftfiihle charm.
We have a strong party here; Sir Francis loves company, literally; he loves to have a crowd about him; and my lady who chuses to live like other people, invites eyery body Sire knows— — was, at first, loth to comply with their repeated invitations, but on their asturing me that I strculd not be teased with people, and that I strould live quite as I liked, I became flexible.
. You alk me whether I rank lady Euston among the number of bad women in my black catalogue, Slily
Sofftc are more weak than wicked : most earnestly, you may be assured, do I avoid the latter, and I certainly desire to have no connexions with the former. ^no, Wilmot, the woman vvhomt love must be elegantly handsome j her mind must be still more beaut i sul, irpoffible, than her person. — She must be god, but She must also be sensible, and politely accomstlisli ed 5 She must be gentle, modest, tender, nay, amorous I yet, at the Same time, as chaste as a vestal; She mult be faithful, generous, fmcere, and capable of the most rehned friendship for me. — 'In Short, I Should not, I believe, think a woman truly loved me, unless She would go as far as prior’s Emma; and yet there may be exceptions even against that character.
. — probably you will be of lady spilsbury’s mind about me : yesterday, after I had refused a dish of tea from her coarse hand, stre told ms, that I did not knovr what I would have.
You bid me Say Something to divert you im the ah' fence of your Maria. — W e have got a pretty widow here', young, handsome, in appearancedifcreet, and Seems inclined to attach herself to me more than to the rest of the men. — She was married young. By her father, to an old man who used her most horribly — No doubt She gave him Sufficient provocation — but this among ourselves— — has the finest pair of languistiing black eyes you ever beheld She has a pretty little mouth, and can look as demure as a qriaker."our apartments happen to lie contiguous — Strong temptation! — Heaven defend my virtue! — Should my little widows be importunate,.! Shall be a lost creature — as 1 have heard the women say. — But here is a celebrated toa$ expected here tomorrow, who has not been much seen in public, lady Charlotte Morden, daughter to
the late earl of G -- -- Oh the death of the countess
her mother stie went into the North with her guardian and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Elliot (the former is her mother’s brother) and from thence to Spa. — She returned to England, and was presented while I was at
A 5 Pot l
Paris, So that I do not remember ever to have feea her. — They tell me that She is as aecomplislied and as good as She is beautiful — I Smiled at the monosyl lable, and replied, “All ladies are undoubtedly good.” - — “I am Sure you don’t think So, you wretch, ” cried lady spilsbury, tapping my Slioulder — “but you will be punislied one time or other for — ”
“For what.? ” answered I, “for thinking in So favourable a manner of the most lovely part of the creation .?”
“Oh! devil, devil! ’’ Said miss Freely, “jom know that I know you think quite otherwise.”
When once a woman comes to confess herself So very knowing. Jack, I have done with her. — Butidid not tell her So abruptly j — I am not ill natured, as the women tell me j I am, indeed, vain, insolent, indifferent Sometimes j — nay, 1 have been called insensible— — wish they were So j — however, I won’t abuse them — they are, after all, necessary evils j and So I will go and take a walk with my widow in the will derncss.
Adieu.
.......... ■' ..... ■ — " I %
LETTER IIL
From the same to the Same.
This lady Charlotte is come. — She is very handsome, but her pride is insupportable. — She is — faith, I can’t tell how to describe her j yet I have been looking at her above an hour, on purpose to give you her portrait exadtly. sshe is most insufferably haughty’ — Why Should a woman be So cursed proud hecause She happens to be particularly handsome? — And yet I think her features would have a great deal of Softness and sensibility in them, if She would depart a little from the unnecessary dignity of her appearance. ~ by keeping up a majestic air stw intends, doubtless,
to
to render herfels more attradtive; but a woman with the finest face in the world is not l»<vely in my eyes, in her beauty is not accompanied with affability and good nature- -- Charlotte, indeed, is not either ill-bred or ill humoured; Sire has a transparent complec tionj the glow of health in her cheeks outbiooms all the rouge of Paris; but there is a delicacy discoverable in. her whole frame, which Sliews that it would be injured m ith the least rough treatment. — Her eyes — no — i had better let them alone, for I'cannot, posiibly, do them any Sort of justice; nor, inded, can I inform you of what colour they are, but their glances Sometimes dart into your very Sou!. — Tis strange that She mult be So' haughty because Sire is So handsome j — and yeti don’t know whether She absolutely deserves that epithet nei therjsor there'is Such a dimple on each Side ofher rosy lips whenever She Smiles, that it makes her appear like Euphrosyne herself : — But then She dresses her hair in a manner calculated to give her a towering aspect— — hair is uncommonly thick and glossy;; eye la Slies are also beautiful beyond description, and She' has got a trick of throwing down her eyes on purpose I imagine, to exhibit their fringes to greater advantage. — She Is, adtuaily, monstrous handsome — yet this confounded pride. — I always had a mortal aversion to a haughty woman. — My pretty widow, Mrs, Mead, though not above half So tall as lady Charlotte, and not a quarter So loigh, is the more def ruble woman of the two: inperfon, to be Sure, stie carries all before her, but I am always, you knew, feratinizing into the hearts of the fair fexi,
A T.RTJ
LETTER IV
From the Same to the Same.
*
HOW one may be mistaken in people? I had taken a foolish fancy into my head that lady Charlotte was capricious, insenstb'e, nay cruel, — I cannot tell why, for stie is quite another creature — miss F reely lady euston’s stster correfted7v?/> thismorn~ ingwithfuch violence for Some misdemeanour which the little animal had committed -- by the way a lady’s dog has almost as bad a time as her lover -- that lady Charlotte interposed, asked her how She could be So inhuman as to beat the poor wretch for faults he could not help, Snatched the puppy from her, and began to make much of him by giving it Some cream in her own Saucer. — Now was not that a good-natured action?? — cannot imagine how snowy white her hand and arms locked, in opposttion to the little brute’s black back, as he lay in her lap. — Yet I do not like to See women fond of dogs, monkeys cc, there is folly, there is indelicacy in Such attachments.
poshbly lady Charlotte exercised her humanity just at that time, and in that manner to be taken notice of. — However, Trip was extremely obliged to her. — Bdt why do I write So much about one thing?
When did you hear from Maria? You tell me that She has a large addition to her fortune by the death of her uncle : I hope such an acquisttion will make no change in her to your disadvantage j though certainly woman is a very mutableheing.
Mrs. Mead and I are not on Such good terms as we were j — stre took it into her head to be jealous of me, as if I mtist not look at or Speak to any woman except herself. — I told her, that if I was leis particular to her in public, my behaviour was governed by the regard I had for her reputation. Reputation !: cried Ihe, strongly pronouncing the word — then turned upon Irer bseh and left irre.
With all my heart. — Thank heaven! there is no Scarcity of women; there are enough always ready; So, my dear widow, I Shall make myself altogether casy. — ’tis a pretty tender animal; but She who will yield to one man, will not be very coy to another? She will be at the Service of the whole Sex; there can be no dependance on Such a coming dear creature; the woman who does not respedl herself, cannot be respedtable in our eyes. They may talk as they please of our being irresistible, in the language of romance, but give me the girl who while She is lan guislring with desires, warm as my own, has discretion enough to keep her inclination within bounds, and to conquer her pasiion when it is just ready to hurry her into the gulf of perdition. — But where is such a rara avis to be found, you will Say? — The queslion if not easily to be ansvvered; yet, indeed, Wilmot, if there were more women who knew how to value themselves, who would not make themselves cheap, Both Sexes would be much better, and consequently much happier. — are rogues because are foolsy and So we both drive away to the devil together. lady Charlotte — I had' not, indeed, intended to mention her name again — — ' -- Lady Charlotte has gi Ten me Such a look of exquisite disdain— — foe what.? only for taking hold of, her hand, that Soft fcanid which I had So much admired. — Oh !' how I despifed her — I let it drop immediately — She put herself ii^to a very unnecestary hurry. — I hate a prude — a prude is the raost contemptible character in the universe, because She is a hypocrite. — How much preferable to her is the flirt, who fairly lets you know at once what She would be at, So that you may leave her or take her as you please: - — A woman who j)retends to more virtue than She can come up to, is to me quite detestable. — I thought my fine lady looked as if She was Sorry that stie had been So precipitate, for I turned and kisted my widow’s little finger, Zs if I meaqt actually to devour it j Lady Charlotte
Lin SL I ry r
hliishlng like an opening rose, left the room. — bluslr ing is of infinite Service to Some women, it makes them all look handsome; yet, in my lise, I never Saw So improving a blush as that which overspread lady charlotte’s face and neck, it gave her absolutely a Very angelic appearance.
yours’s, as usual.
w —;
I *
P, S, Here is a Mr. Evelyn, who Seems to look upon lady Charlotte as upon a divinity indeed.
LETTER V
Lady Charlotte Morden to
Mrs. Bjlomes.
euston caslle.
I HAVE a thousand times repented coming hither;
had I not been apprehensive of affronting Sir Francis and lady euston by a refusal, I Should not have complied with their invitation. — Why will people persist in quarrelling with you, because you don’t happen to think as tloey do.? — Surely such people are the most unreasonable beings imaginable. — We can no more make our thoughts than our faces alike; — I will Say nothing about the latter, but I will Sreely tell you that I Should be Sorry to have my Sentiments correspond with those of many of my companions here, though Some of them are reckoned as sensible as they are polite.
Lord Woburn is here. You have heard of him; he is, undoubtedly, one of the finest figures’you ever beheld, but there is Something in his tout ensemble that greatly detraus ftoin the beauty of his person. He
is reckoned proud; he is certainly capricious to a prodigious degree. — Mrs. Mead, the widow of old Mead of Derbyshire, a pretty woman, but rendered frequently less So by a dejection which hangs about her, Seems to be his favourite. — She is evidently attached to loim, but I don’t think he treats loer with the consideration which She deserves; he takes too many liberties with her, especially in public. — I am Sorry to censure her conduct, but Surely the freedoms which are taken with her, are in consequence of the encouragement She gives. — No man will presame> to behave to a woman with an improper familiarity, un ■ less her previous behaviour has authorised bis presumption— — w«burn has rather too high an o ■ of his own cloarms he really looks as if he thought every woman mult admire him; he does not even — conceitedly conscious of his attradlions try to insinuatc' himself into your favour — he tyrannically demands it — without once Supposing, that any woman can. come within the reach of his eyes, and keep her heart quiet at the Same time. — Now, you mutt know by that Sort of carriage, he appears to me in a very disadvantageous light. He has unquestionably a great deal of merit; he would have much more if he conducted himself in a different manner. — Few men have stronger intellects; the minds of few men have beers, more politely cultivated; he can be exceedingly entertaining in conversation, but I think he rather loves to trijle, especially with women, as if he disdained to converse with them upon an equal footing — He has certainly kept company chiefly with the loose part of our Sex, or with thole careless creatures who, by not keeping up their importance, are treated slightly by everybody.
miss Freely, lady euston’s Sister, is here. She is apparently, one of these injignijicants; lady spilsbury is another : these women Spend most of their hours in making themselves noticed by lord Woburn, who, did they not perpetually throw themselves in his way,
would
would never, I believe, trouble himself about them — Yet, settingaside these errors of judgement — errors which are often attended with fatal consequences— — are sensible women. — miss Freely is pretty; lady spilsbury is what you call a fine Showy woman 3 yet they do not, either of them, Suit me for intimates — nor is lady euston, you know, a woman with whom one can safely contract a friendship — She is a well-bred woman — according to the fashionable meaning
of that compound word. -- -- -- “When you have Said
that, ” to borrow an expreslion from Sir Courtly Nice, you have Said all.” — As Sire is my father’s relation, I don’t chuse to affront her j for a Similar reason I am civil to her Sister. — My lady is by much the belt of the two.
Since I have been deprived of your valuable conversation, I have had a void in my heart which wants to be filled up, but here are none about me like you. — How unluckily for me did you return to Mr. elliot’s just when 1 had left them. — Write, however, to me at this place; and pray read this to your brother and fister J it will, I think, Sufficiently convince them how jiiuch I wish to revive my interview's with them.
#
r F “tl.
juo* X.J A ^
m «•
LETTER VI
Lord W o B 0 R M to Mr. W i L m o t.
I WAS right. — This Evelyn is fallen downright in love with lady Charlotte— — is certainly serious; he follows her like her Siradow. But I pity him, poor fellow j Sire will, undoubtedly, use him like * dopr; for though he is handsome, sensible, and well-bred, he cannot pretend to her : he has but a trilling fortune, about Seven hundred a year; new, to be Sure, She expetls a man with twice as many thousands. — If wminen were really what they appear to be, their expectations, though extravagant might be pardonable.
Lady Charlotte is, take her altogether, the most beautiful figure I ever Saw : She is extremely con versible too, when Sire happens to be in humour j and has a voice like a cherubim. — ‘poor Evelyn! — > She is, really, exceedingly condefeending to him, and treats him more like a brother or Some relation than a cafiial acquaintance, while he looks and listens
as if his existence depended upon her Smiles._
She has a partiality for him, I believe yet I think' her pride will hinder her from marrying, for She may marry a title. — Well — lre may be the favourite notwithstanding; such events are not extraordinary in the fasliionable world - — He is certainly a pretty
fellow — all the women here are pleased with him
they like him next to ms he does not Seem to be Sufficiently sensible of his powers, or he might make his own terms; — but lady Charlotte engrosfes his thoughts and his time — he has no leistire, no inclination for any other woman j he Seems to be formed by nature for a constant animal j he will make an incomparable dupe— — a fellow now, if he had hut anything of a fortune, would do well enough
for a hiifhand. that is. he i; cronrl lpalrlxr
when nobody else was in the way; yet he does not want sense, he is only too easy and complying : an artful woman may do what Sire will with Such a tradfable mortal. Charlotte can looli him into anything; She certainly, has the rnost bewitching pair oi F eyes I ever Saw in my life — but I hate them, because i they are Sometimes directed favourably towards Evelyn — I fancy So at least — not that I trouble my head .about her eyes, yet I can’t bear to See men So Sooled. — No woman Should have Such an advantage over me, though I were dying for her.
I have lately had Several opportunities of conversh ing with lady Charlotte, upon various Subjects; I never met with a woman who acquitted herself So well; Sire is possested of a delicate sensibility, and would make a glorious mistress— — her pride, I. suppose, would bring her off, Should her pashons be violent enough to occasion a conflict in her bosom between love and honour. — After all, a woman with Strong passions is in a ticklisli Situation, and may, ’tis highly probable, run away with your footman, if he happens to be a handsomer fellow than you are, though, 1 affure you, I have known an ug ly dog more successful with his lady, than the moll delicate Adonis that ever breathed. ^evelyn, indeed, is a very fine fellow; few men are better made, few men have more insinuating manners Some people, however, without taking any pains at all, do their business completely.
I have just been talking with lady Charlotte about her admirer. We were all three, yesterday, Sitting in a temple in the garden, with Harriot Facely : lady Charlotte had a large nosegay in her bosom — She is a mighty lover of flowers — stooping to look down the walk at a tree which stood at the bottom of it — I had purposely directed her fine eyes that way, to prevent their committing murder upon poor Evelyn. — the flowers fell out ofher bosom— — “have, dropped your nosegay, ” Said I, without stirring from
mv Seat.
Evelyn immediately flew to gather her another, picking up the fallen flowers for himself, because_/l'«' had worn them. -- -- -- -
He Soon returned, and She received kis/r^«r with sfo many Smiles and acknowledgments, that, I dare' |& say, he w’as the happier all the day for them.
* Evelyn and Facely soon left us, the latter being
Summoned by a. message from lady euston, the former by a letter from London.. -- -- -- When they had
both left us, though they left us, I thought, reludt^ antly, I said to lady Charlotte, taking her hand, “I did not imagine you had So much cruelty in your dis position” ff“
“do you mean, my lord ?”
“Why, are you not excessively cruel to make a man who is desperately in love with you, believe that you like him when you do not ?”
“I don’t understand you, ” repliedlhe, blushing, and withdrawing her hand.
“Did you not give the utmost encouragement, ” Said I, Seizing her hand again, “to the poor fellow for his endeavours to please you, by the flattering Smiles which you bestowed upon him ?”
“And why Should you suppose that he did not please me.? His civility, his readiness to oblige me, demanded a return of politeness; I meant nothing more, nor had he any other meaning, I believe if you, if any other person had fetched me the flowers, I Should have behaved in the same manner.”
“1 am too lazy to take So much paing, ” replied 1, “but if I had been So civil, and if you had. thanked me as much as you thanked him, I Should not have been So much asfedted by your flattering carriage, because I strould have strongly suspedled the Sincerity of it.”
“bless me, ” cried She, “is So much Sincerity necessary when we are thanking a man for giving us a few flowers.? When anybody endeavours to please me, I think it is highly incumbent pn me to appear at least pleased, ”
I
“Evelyn, then, has actually made a conquest of your heart by the excels of his Solicitude.? Upon my word, it is cheaply gained.”
“Indeed, lord Woburn, yovj are very capricious today;; Since my behaviour does not happen to be agreeable to you', T will leave you to yourself - — ' to go.
“Stay, ” Said I,. Still holding, her hand, “if yowre ally did not discover So much Sati faction at evelyn’s asliduity with a view to make him Still more firmly attached to you, but were only politely acknowledging his civilities, you are not So much to blame. — But are you lure, lady Charlotte, that you do not take a pleasare in giving encouragement to this poor fellow’s paslion for you? — You cannot help feeing that he is extremely in love with you.
“1 don’t See any Such thing, ” answered Sire, blushing, still more deeply, “and I think a woman cannot make herself more ridiculous, than by Supposing that every man who treats her with a little gallan ti'y is in love with her. men are of different tempers; Some are naturally inclined to be more attentive to women than others, without having any particular designs; and while such men keep within proper bounds, while they make themselves both agreeable anduseful by their Services, they are, I think, entitled to politeness; a different conduct would, certainly, induce thqm to imagine that a woman looked upon their. ashduities in a Serious light, contrary to their intention’s.”
What a fenstble reply, Wilmot? How I admired her for it f With what unaffected modesty was it delivered {
“You have entirely convinced me, ” Said I, “that you meant nothing particular yourself to Evelyn; but you cannot make me believe you do not See that hq, is ready to hang himself for you.”
“I Shall not dis|>uie with you, my lord, ” replied She, throwing down her lovely eyes, “upon a.sttb
xx/birh I am t rvfcilkr i nf TOT rvi/a rer k.
want to Speak with Mils Facely.”
“You mult not go till you have answered two or
three queries. -- In what degree of esteem does
Evelyn Stand with you ?”
“Pooh, ” Said She, Smiling, anr* Striving todisen gauge her hands from me, “I have never once giveii myself leisure to think about him.”
“Nay, now, that’s asfeftation all over, lady Charlotte — a Single Spark of which I never observed in you before.”
“Indeed you wrong me, ” replied Sire, with an abashed air, “as I never intended to look upon Mr. Evelyn in the light you hint at, I never thought seriously
about him — but -- -- -”
“Aye — come — tell me every Secret in that charming bosom relating to him, and I will let you go.”
“Well, then — I believe he is reckoned handsome.”
“You mean, o think him So.”
“Yes, I do; — but bis beauty is not of the kind which pleases me. — He is also very good-humoured, I fancy. — He may have a very good understanding,, perhaps, but there Seems to be nothing extraordinary in it. In Short, though he may be esteemed a very a greeable man, he does not particularly strike mss“
“he had a larger estate -- -- ■”
“No, my lord, fortune will never influence me So far as to prefer a man merely for his money. Mr. Evelyn will never be anything to meand yet as I think him desirous of pleasing, and perfectly inolfen five — (inoffensive people are not always to be met with) I chuse to behave to him with good manners.” ' “I dare Say he lives in hopes of bringing that^oar/ manners to Something more interesting, bye and bye.”
She was going to reply, but Sir Francis euston joining us, put a stop to a conversation, which ha convinced me that She is not So much prepostessed in favour of Evelyn, as I had imagined her to be —
She.
She is a lovely creature. — If women were but as good as they are beautiful! — I don’t know such another.
Mrs. Mead can’t bear to See me take notice of lady Charlotte; — ’jealous. — Can She expert me to Speak to no woman but herself? Ridiculous; — I love to divert myself with the whole Sex; but there is an inexpreltible Something in lady Charlotte, which dis tinguislies her from all the women with whom I have hitherto conversed — So much sense, So much Spirit; — yet with all her vivacity how winningly mo dest! I have, certainly, a prodigious high idea ofher at present, but Sire will, doubtless, descend from her dignity in a little while, and prove herself to be one
of eve’s own daughters. -- What artful devils,
Wilmot, are the majority of women! they'difguise themselves in So many Shapes, and appear in Such very deceitful colours, that there is no venturing to have anything to do with them for above a night at a time; — I, therefore, never think of engaging with any woman who has not a charadtef to keep up; — « a woman of this Stamp is as glad to get rid of me, as I am ready to run from her. — s such has been my Situation with Mrs. Mead; when we were sirst acquainted, She was afraidi Should Speak to her, or even look at her in public; but Since lady charlotte’s arrival. She has almost discovered herself from her jealousy my account; ■ — not that I am more particular a bout lady Charlotte than anybody else, She happens to have more beauty and more retenue, at present, than the rest of her Sex, and So I take more notice of her. — But even she has, no doubt. Some Secret foible — when once that is detected— — Servant, my lady; — then my widow will be In a suss about Somebody else. — However, if lady Charlotte happen.? to be as much attached to me as Mrs. Mead is, I Shall with pleasure Seize — But take notice. Jack, I never attempt to seduce women. — No — no — they are all had enough | they want none of my injirudions to
improve
s^/r(5«uf them, f am willing to take them as they are, but I do not choose to leave them worse than I
found them. -- -- If I proceed! Shall grow quite faty
rical.,
LETTER. VIE.
From there Same to the Same
INDEED, indeed, Wilmot, you will make me half angry. — What! in the name of common-sense, have I committed to paper to make you imagine me guilty of so enormous a weakness— — love? — No — No my friend— — will never catch me in a Sighing condition. --! know the Sex too well — I have not been So
many years upon the town for nothing. -- -- -1 chus
to converse with a sensible woman who, thanks to Nature — is also handsome -- -- -- true — must I, therefore,
be enamoured with her? What execrable logic is this.? positively, Jack, you know nothing of the mat -- ter. — You are an amorous puppy, and Sty at every cap which comes in your way j ergo you Set me down for a puppy like yourfelfi am extremely obliged to you for your absurd compliment. — seriously, I have not the Smallest idea of loving lady Charlotte — And yet I would gladly make her in love with me; — not for the sake of gratifying my own inclination, but from mere cloarity, as She may fall into worse hands. — Sure lam, that if I have ever any connexion with her, I will try to make her wiser. — There are women, Wilmot, who have improved surprisingly under my hands;
but
hut then they were neither handfsome, haughty, no'jf self sustigient. — Yet I wrong this charming woman; Sire is not in the least conceited — She appears less and less proud, and ia as beautiful as an angel. I think I am more in her favour than I was j She will trust herself with me, alone. Sing to me, read with me, and she has taken Several hints with her pencil which I recommended to her. — There has been lately an affability in her carriage to me, which renders her infinitely more pleaslng. I love to See wcmen behave to us with an easy freedom; by So doing they seem, at least, to have no designs. — — » But there is no enjoying a teteatete at this place; one is always interrupted. — The women are all ready to jump over my back j — I cannot stir for them $ they all envy lady Charlotte j they study and strive to equal her, but in vain. — How many anxious hours has She occastoned among them! — It would make you laugh heartily to see how they flounce and fidget,, and trick themselves out to eelipse her : but She outlines them; they are mere blanks before her, and
have no admirers when She is present. -- -- -- -- Lady
Charlotte never looks Solicitous about admiration, but She is, nevertheless. Sure of it. — She is always neatj — you know what charms neatness has for me — ^ and io
“When unadorned adorned the most.”
as your favourite lailton says. — There is an elegant Simplicity in her whole appearance which is in -- expreslibly alluring, and which a slavisli compliance with the fashion would utterly destroy. — How many women do we See In the fashionable world, converting themselves into Srightful figures, by barbarously dressing away the beauties which Nature in a liberal fit bestowed upon them! — Were they more attentive to the becoming, in every respedt, they would, take any word for it, be a thousand times more successful.
LORD W O B U R i. iji:
— Lady Charlotte neverdesiles her lovely auburn locks with pov'^der — that villainous compound; — while Some are combed up to Show the glolsy Shine upon them, •others curl in ringlets upon her Snowy neck; — a Small cap on the top of her head has the prettiest essedl imaginable. -- By dresfing in this manner She appears to the greatest advantage, in my eyes; but the eyes of the women here are not construded like mine; they are much pained by what gives me considerable
pleasure.____they were so provoked the other day,
that they all took upon them to condemn her taste; they were astonished at her not wearing grey pow .der, as nobody was fit to be Seen without.
“Nature has given me tolerable good hair, ” Said She, “and 1 think it would be a pity to disguise
it.*’
They burst into a forced laugh at this rational rc‘» ply, told her Sue was ridiculously Singular, and that they had rather be out of the world than like nobody in it. Even Mrs, Mead was Silly enough to join with them against her, though She does not use powder herself — but her motives are obvious; il ie is under the dominion of envy.
. It diverts me to see the monstrous folly of these women; and their contemptible prejudices, which they canst postibly keep to themselves, make me take more notice of lady Charlotte than I Should, perhaos' otherv.ifedo. — Nay, I publjckly take her part against them all Sometimes on purpose to put them upon the fret — The different fnapes in which they discover their jealousy and resentment are absolutely laughable.
Harriot Facely, decorated from head to foot like a fagoda, declared yesterday, that Sire abominated dress and called it an intolerable fatigue — “every woman offastiion is above it, ” added Sire. --
“No woman, ” replied lady spilsbury, interrupting
her, “let her rank be what it will, is above looking handsome, nor indeed ought She to be” — (throwing
22 H I S T O R Y O F
herself assetledly into the most languisliing attitude) ** as beauty gives one so much power over the male creatures.”
“Let me then asture you, lady spilsbury, ” Said I, “that no man worth a pinch of Snuff was ever won by a lady’s drapery or diamonds. Nature ever does most execution when her operations are not impeded by the impertinent officiousness of art.”
“Odious Nature, ” replied She — — “charming
Art! -- -- r how you talk, my lord!”
“How you at, my lady, in direct opposition to what can alone render you irresistible!”
“Oh! you monster- -- me upon the cheek, — “hut you say this only to try usjl know you think quite otherwise. — You handsome fellows love dearly to throw out bold assertions purely to be confuted. -- -- -”
“That is, you mean, to give you an opportunity of Sliewingyour wit by answering;; — take care, lady spilsbury, many a woman in attempting to be a wit, has proved herself a downright Sool.”
“Now, that is so like him, ” Said miss Facely,
“See what one gets by encouraging Sellows” -- -- -- -- -
darting a farcaltical glance at Mrs. Mead, who modestly looked on the floor, and took out her handkerchief to hide her blusiies. — Why had not that woman strength to resist me? — She was amiable enough before I knew lady Charlotte j — but a woman who has "Surrendered to me, at discretion, I must despise ■ — ’tis ungenerous to despise her for a weakness to which I, myself, was instrumental, but I must not think about it. — Why will women so of -- en give us reason to lock upon them with contempt? Why will they not be all angels.? — Life would be, indeed, a poor affair without them; but, certainly, if they were all virtuous, we might be brought to be content with one woman. — I, even I, Should have no objection to matrimony, were I Sure that my wife would be never inconstant — ^. — — with a shnsiblp foirb
Sul, amiable friend, who would Share all my joys, and alleviate all my cares, I should be Sayrtmely blest; to such a wonian, Jack, willingly would I be married tomorrow;; — while I every day See crowds otse niales round me enslaved by the follies of the world, and deeply tainted by Its vices how can I hope to find a woman answerable to my expectations?? — fool I hate, and my blood rises at a wei like to converse
with a woman of sense — t’ ue' — but pry’thee do not therefore imagine that I am in love with her — * Ridiculous! — '
LETTER VIII
Lady Ch A k.u0ttx Morde n to Mrs. bilome r,
IDO not love to dlsplease those who Seemingly wish to give me pleasure — or I would leave this place immediately. ' I am Surrounded with people who are by no means Suitable to me. Lord Woburn is the most Sensible peison among us, but then he is capricious beyond expresiion — He will have it that Evelyn is in love with me — I Should not, I confess, have sus petled him of a particular inclination, but my lord has pointed out Several little attentions in his behaviour, which very much induce me to be of his iord sliip’s opinion. — This discovery has not pleased me i I do not want people to be in love with me, unless I am inclined to be in love with them in return. — 1 did not, indeed, at firsc believe Lord Woburn was Serious; I thought he was only in a rallying humour i but I begin to find he w^s both Serious, and right in his conjectures. Yet I can never love Evelyn, and therefore I wish he would not be particular to me — ■
AC... 1! 1* rt J _ I _ /_ i!
z4 njloicjiis.i\jr
as much as I could— — behaviour made him So un~ casy, that he, at last, complained of it,
“I have no right, ” Said he, the other day, “to expect a return to my pallion from you, yet may I not hope, from the gentleness of your disposition, that you will not drive me to absolute despair.? Suffer me but to admire you, lady Charlotte, and I will never cease to be the moult respedtful of your admirers — You cannot, however, treat me as you will, hinder me from adoring you. The pasiion which I feel for you will not be destroyed but with my existence.” v/.hat can one Say to Such a man, who really, I Jbelieve, Speaks from his heart. — There are a thousand men to whom, if they Speak in ever So Serious a manner, I can give no Sort of credit; but evelyn’s whole carriage proves his Sincerity — if I ought to Say So J — and I Shall not be able, therefore, to bring inyself to treat him with Scorn, or to asturae coquettish airs before him. — Coquetry is against my nature; it is also contrary to my natural dlfposition to behave ill to anybody who wishes to See me, or make me, happy. — Now, as I can never marry Evelyn, I certainly Should not feed him with hopes. — There will be required Some delicacy in my conduct upon this oc cason, — I think it would be more prudent to leave thecartle, as Evelyn Shows no inclination to decamp — But ’why mufti be obliged to quit a family who have been very polite to me, and who endeavour to entertain me as much as they can? — I have done nothing to render flight necestary. — I will Stay' — and, for the direction of my future conduct, learn how to behave properly to a man whom I Shall, however, on no account encourage in the way he desires to be diftinguislied by me. --
Lord Woburn, who is the most vigilant man I ever knew, rallies me upon my great compaslion for Evelyn and tells me, that next to him whom I chuse to Savour, the happiest man is he whom I have not totally rejected— — is no contenting him, do what I
I, O R D WOBURN.
will; therefore, I won’t trouble myself about him ^ longer. the women here have all given him
reason to believe that they admire him; they Spoil him; he expects the same admiration from everybody. Presuming upon the incense which he receives, he is too apt to take improper liberties, and to imagine that such liberties will be permitted. — Themen Ire, undoubtedly, too free, but I am afraid that the women, by conducting themselves indiscreetly, make
them So.__were you to see the encouragenoent
which every woman at this place gives to lord Woburn, in particular, you would be more ready to condemn them than him. They not only launch out lit praise of his person, in terms which would put a man of the least modesty to the blush, and indulge him in ^11 the freedoms which their commendations natural jy provoke, but actually begin Sirft to take the moult 'Unwarrantable liberties with him, when he does not appear to be thinking about them So that a man must be destitute of sensibility not to take notice of them; yet, to do lord Woburn justice, he behaves with more circumspeuioh than most men would in such a Situation 5 though he Seems to be not at all indifferent to women— — otherwise. Perhaps he., like many other people, thinks he may be disgusted at what is So freely offered him, and despisethofe favours which may be obtained without dishculty from our Sex. There I am entirely oi his opinion : were I a man, I Should think in that respedl exactly in the same manner — All the women here are indelicately forward — Mrs. Mead appeared indeed upon better terms with him, but they rather differ and dispute now. The rest of the company rally her to Such a degree that She can hardly bear it — I caught her in tears t’other night in the garden .* He was, I thought, endeavouring to Sooth her, though the lover was not discernible either in his looks or carriage___however ihe has, I Sancy, reckoned upon
Hi 4-1- ..s 4- 1 « / y*l A rxrr\it AK ^ Pr
20 jtiioiwicrur
to observe them, my lord Seized my hand, and Begged me to honour him with my company for a few minutes— — Mead turned away, after having cast a glance of the. Strongest resentment at
him -- -1 took no notice; he mentioned her Several
times in the course of the conversation, yet Said nothing which discovered the terms they were upon. - — I had a fair opening to inquire about them, without being either .impolite or impertinent, but I did not. ^why Should I wish to dive into an
other’s Secrets? If Mrs. Mead is either faulty or unfortunate, She will be very much hurt at being «xpofed — curiosity may indeed Sometimes prompt the belt Sort of .people among us, to pry into the hearts osthose whose characters are fuspedted, but Surely their indiscretions as well as their misfortunes ought to excite compaslion, in our bosoms j none of us are exempt from the former or from the latterj
pity, therefore, Should plead for both. 1 always
jnost Sincerely wisli to relieve every woman who is unhappy — unhappy, I Sear, mult every woman be who susfersherself to be improperly in the power of any of the other Sex.
%
T V r
L O R D W O B U RN. ay
L E T T E R IX
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
This lady Charlotte is a charming creature. — She is, actually, beyond expreslion, amiable. — She appears to be So; but I know there mult be Some confounded drawback to turn the Scale a gainst her excellent qualities. — I hope, at leasl, that there are Some Sliades in her character, Sori
would not be in love with her for millions -- -- -- If I
discover nothing atrocious belonging to her, T Shall
become a mere driveller -- -- -- 1 Shall dote on her, adore
her. -- -- You cannot conceive how lovely She
is. — Never did I See So much beauty with So little consciousness. — There is a mildness, a delicacy in
her whole behaviour, which is ravishing. -- -- -- Pray
heaven She may have a thousand defects- -- -- -- have
discerned none yet. -- -- -- If I do not find out some
capital blemishes Soon, I Shall be undone. — Her
indifference, her insenlibility will bring me off.
I can never love a woman whose passions are not as
tenderly alive as my own; -- -- -- yet She is affected
by everything -- -- by every thing but what relates
to me.
I Saw her weep t’other day at a moving tale; She
absolutely melted my heart with tears; -- -- -- Yet when
Sire Saw Mrs Mead leave me affliued at my coolness, She had not the Slightest curiosity to know
the grounds of our division. -- -- -1 gave her Several
openings; dumb. She exprested not the least desire to enter upon the cause of our depit amoureux— — why do I find fault with her? Perhaps Sire is to be revered for her behaviour j perhaps Sire had curiosity, and only denied herself the gratificatioa of it, through pity to Mrs. Mead. — She is, indeed, an angel, if her behaviour was regulated by com' pasfion. '* — But I will not suppose her to be So much
-- -- R i _
n L b 1 u K if u r
Superior to her busy, inquisitive, censorious sex, who generally look out pretty Slrarp to catch a frail lister (ripping, and then hunt her down mo St unmercifully. -- -- Were She full of imperfedlions, my
heart would never be in the least disturbed by her; hut I am afraid her excellencies will enslave meno — her total disregard of me will Save me from a fatal love fit; besides, 1 Shall never be able to love a woman, who has the Slightest partiality for a
mother- -- will not, I firmly believe, marry
Evelyn; but ihe certainly has no aversion to him,
-- -- Her behaviour to him is So gentle. So condescending, So very considerate, that I Sometimes don’t know what to think; yet Sire gave me the preference t’other nighf, when we had a ball here. -- -- -- --
The men were to choose partners; Evelyn ashed ihe favour of lady charlotte’s hand. She directly replied, that She Should not dance- -- little while
afterwards, I afned the same question; Sire Smiled, held out her hand negligently, and Said, “You will have but an idle partner.”
Charmed with her compliance, I replied -- -- -- -- -- -
'You will Suit me to a hair, Sori am the laziesl of mortals. — ^ we, consequently, chatted more than we danced— — am nobody in a ball room : I was never fond of fluttering about In the air like a monkey, for the diversion of the women.' — — She Seemed frequently weary, I thought. — I, therefore,
frequently asksd her to Sit down -- -- -- Sire willingly
•astented. — I enjoyed a luxurious evening in the Sentimental way; -- -- -- but we Stirred up So much envy
and jealousy among the rest of the company, that I don’t know whether some awkward consequences
A.
may not ensue. -- -- -- Evelyn, in particular, was quite
unhappy; the poor fellow looked ready to burst with vexation. — instead of triumphing over him, I actually pitied him, because I Saw that my lovely partner felt nothing hut compassion for him, — — She
had
had even the good nature to make a little Sort of apology to him, telling him, that when he asked her. She had determined not to dance. You
know, Evelyn, ” added Sire, with a heavenly Smile, “thatwe women are changeable creatures; but, indeed I had no design to asiront you, particularly,
by a refusal.” -- ‘the poor fellow trembled while
ihe Spoke, and appeared actually astonislied at Such uncommon condescension; a ccndeicenfion which raised her in my eyes, but which drew malicious remarks upon her from almost all the women in the room. — ' — “Flirt, coquettiili air, affectation” ” the words applied to the only woman in the room who had not deserved them. I, too, was baited most cruelly for my idleness, for my Singularity, and for' being So extremely regardless of all that was uttered, and of much more that was only looked. I paid my court with the moult successful asfiduity, Seemingly, to lady Charlotte, and was honoured with her Smiles for the remainder of the time we Spent toge •
-- -- -- -1 Shall absolutely go too far, if I don’t^
take care. -- -- It must not be — after all I have said
against the deluding Sex, to be Seduced at last- --
have I not to expect?? — — it is not come to that yet — — No, no, Jack — — whatever you may think, I am not in love.
I
Sf 3"' LI E 7^'
LETTER X
From the Same to the Same.
And so your Maria, your friend, ycur faithful Maria has affually given you up? — -- ‘now, were I not afraid of making; vou anory, I would
laugh at you mopt immoderately. -- -- As for you — I
suppose you are half ready to hang yourself- -- -- --
why Slip out of the world ia So Sneaking a manner, Jack, when there are so many women to be had as handsome as Maria, and upon terms.a thousand times more reasonable? — I Sufpected, indeed, that iire would leave you in the lurch, as Soon as I heard that She was become miftress of so large a fortune, by the Sudden death of a man who, from his continual good State of health and great temperance, might have lived these twenty years; — ay, as long as his fair and fickle relation.. -- What could induce
this girl to make herself So scandalously ridiculous.? Did ihe think Sire had not enough before? Are you altered because her uncle chose to leave her twenty thousand pounds ?- — However, you are well oft J — a woman with Such a mind, would, with, all her beauty, have rendered you completely miserable.
-- -- Look upon this event, therefore, as a blessing.
-- — 7 here is no woman worth all the fuss one
makes about her. -- -- > come hither, and See if I am
too hasty with my censures against the Sex. -- Yet,
Stay— — me exclude lady Charlotte -- -- She would
just now, while the love fit is Strong upon you, encourage you to believe that you would lose nothing
by Substituting her in the room of Maria. — -- But
take care, I Say -- -- a man who has been once deceived, has reasen to be cautious. -- -- -1 have, ’tis
true, at this moment, a high opinion of this Char
lovle,
lotte, and think her Superior to three parts of her Sex; yet I would, on no account, be answerable e ven for her.
My little widow begisn to be confounded troublesome: : I do not take care. She will expose us
both -- -- both, did I? — What have I to fear?
— ^ — The consequence of a man, in the eyes of tyre fair Sex, always increases in proportion to the number of women whom he has Seduced; the more 'Con quests he ha, s made, the more charming he appears,
— -- -- -- If the widow, therefore, is biov/n, her reputation
will be tarnished, but mine will be rather rrrore bruhant tnan it is at prerent. -- r northeast more inconstant,
the mere vile I am, I Shall be the mere
courted, the more followed. -- -- -- — Now, fuspend'
your concern for a moment'. Jack, and tell me if Such creatures asthese, ought to give one the least uneasiness about them ^can you possibly love the wmman whom you 'cannot esteem.? And is it not absolutely imposiible to esteem Such characters as I' have described .?'
“But are all women So undeserving ?”
Too many. — The majority of the Sex are weak. — believe L am not much too bold in my aster tion; and weakness naturally leads a woman into' wickedness.
“Is the divine Charlotte one of these.?” .?”
! I am afraid She is, only I have not yet founci ’ her out. — She is at present, to all appearance, as pure' as an angel, but She may be an arrant hypocrite, if I make any discoveries to her disadvantage, I Shall not ' think there is one woman of virtue in the universe.
You have been pleased to insinuate, that I am in love with this Charlotte; but I'am able, at this moment, to prove the absurdity of your insinuation. Did you ever in your life know a man in love with' a woman, without being jealous on her paying particular civilities to his rival ?• — I am this very man. —
B 4 Can
Can I, therefore, be enamoured? — No, Wilmot— — may as well be violently attached to a woman whom you never Saw. — But I will explain myself j.
-- -- poor Evelyn has been so miserable, ever Since
the day on which lady Charlotte, by refusing to dance with him, gave the preference to me, that out of mere compassion, She has, from that time, behaved to him in a manner Singularly obliging; and yet not in a manner to make him imagine She would ever lock upen him in the light
he wished -- -- -- How considerate.? How engaging?
How commendable is Such a condudi.? How few women are capable of behaving with so much propriety? How few can properly distinguish between the love and the lover .?But you See I cannot pos iibly be attached to her, in the way you suppose; were I So attached, I Should certainly be jealous; the flightesl attention to my rival would alarm me
extremely. — -- -- -- Were I in love, I Should be filled
with a thousand apprehensions lest She Should not actually be the amiable creature She apparently is. -- — am not sofar gone, as you imagine I am. — * Talk to me, therefore, no more of love. — I defy the little urchin— — have had a narrow escape, however, for, to confess the truth, I never met with a woman So entirely Sormed to please, to charm. — She cannot Surely be So perfect a creature. — She must certainly have Some horrible failings, though She has art enough to conceal them. I have been in imminent danger. — But while I thus write about Charlotte, I forget you, who are grieving for the loss of your Maria. — Take my advice at once— — no tjnore of her. — If She has not put you out of conceit with the whole Sex, take the Sirft Sine girl who Sails in your way, only for a night or two, and, my life to yours, you will Soon be in Statu quo again. On the faith of an honest man, I declare to you, that I never retired with a woman in an evening, whom I
did
/
did not wish to get rid of before morning j and, I think I am at leasl as amorous as yourself.
LETTER XL
Lady Ch arlotte Morden to Mrs. Blomer'.'
MY Suspicions are • confirmed relating to Mrs.
. Adead; I am really concerned about her, as I found her the most agreeable person, in every re spedt, here. — There was a not unpleasing melancholy at times hanging over her features, which made me relish her company better than the Society of lady spilsbury and miss Facely, whose mirth is by far too boisterous for me. — They depress my Spirits, instead of contributing to enliven them, and I become weary of listening to the same kind of noisy nonsenfe. I never was one of those happy people,, who can laugh at everything, though I am very ready to acknowiedge, that they are as much witer as they are happier, because they are so much more easily pleased— — what is this to Mrs. Mead ?” — great deal, my dear friend, because She great ’ ly attraued my attention by the gentleness of her manners, and I Strove to make myself agreeable to ' her, though Sire never, I think, appeared to like me. — Lately Sire Seemed not a little'displeased with me 5 but as I concluded that her displeasure arose from " the discovery of Some defect in me, I studiously endeavoured to divest myself of Several little foibles, and flattered'myself, that She would be more desirous of my friendsliip, when I was become more deserv -- ing of it.
last night, having just escaped from lady spilsbu' ry, who had almost talked me to death, while I was enjoying one of the finest Summer evenings I ever •
b s beheld
beheld, in a particularly pleasant walk in the garden, I Saw Mrs. Mead cross the bottom of it. She. was met by lord Woburn, who would have pasted
her, but fire Stopped him, and began to talk earneit ly to him, holding him by the arm. — On his trying to break from her, She Slipped a piece of paper into his hand, and left him. — just casting his eyes over it he tore if, and Scattered the fragments in the walk. — these proceedings having made me entertain Sentiments very unfavourable to them both, I intended to avoid them as much as poshble. -- -- When
we all came in to ihpper, I Saw plainly that Mrs. Mead had been in tears; to make Some apology for the suspicious appearance ofher eyes, She complained of a cruel headache, which had tormented her all day.
Lord Woburn Smiled contempt, while her looks vere expresiive of grief, and of a Smothered resentment— — must be a man very unworthy of the good opinion I had of him, • by using a woman. So apparently amiable as Mrs. Mead is, in the manner he does; he discovers a bad heart. — Such a man ought to meet with all posiible discouragement. — None of the people here Seem to See the necessity of keeping lord Woburn at a proper distance; — I will, therefore, lead the way. — Yet, J cannot help Saying, that I am both disappointed and concerned to find a man, whom I had reason, I thought, to esteem, So little deserving of my partiality in his favour. — But where Shall we Sind a perfect character? I confess, that being taken in by the specicusness of his behaviour, I treated him with more consideration than I did any other man, because he Seemed desirous of being distinguished by me j and really Stood a chance to be preferred, by me, to his whole Sex, by the deference and respedt with which he ever behaved to me. — Sometimes, indeed, I own, he attempted freedoms, which I thought impertinent
and
and improper; yet, as they were conducted with extreme delicacy, I could not, reasonably be offended at them, without affeuing the prude, a character i have always detested — I can never. Surely, merit the imputation of prudery, by Shunning a man so very unfit to be trusted as lord Woburn certainly is — Yet,
let me consider. -- Have I not been too iiasty.? May
there not be an engagement of the tendered kind, between Mrs. Mead and lord Woburn which they wiilito conceal, for reasons with which I have nothing to d).? And may they not have had, like lovers, a little quarrel, which has occasioned the contemptuous glances of the one, and the looks full of resentment of the other? — Ht will, I think, be moult charitable to conclude, that a fracas has produced the carriage on both Sides, which gave birth
to the above observations. -- -- Still, however, I ought
to be very reserved in my behaviour to my lord'; for it is highly probable, that his little asiiduities were calculated to excite jealousy in Mrs. Mead, in order to bend her to his purpose— — will, therefore, make a total change in my carriage; I will double my attention to Mrs. Mead; — I will be quite inattentive to lord Woburn. — It I cannot forward a reconcilia -- tion, I will not widen the breach, between them.
y
r
L E T
LETTER XII
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot,
YOU were but too much in the right, when you asterted that I was in love with this charming Charlotte : Hear I ana so, indeed j and yet if I was absolutely certain of being in love with her, I Should be half ready to hang myself. — Sure I am, that She has made a total alteration in her behaviour to me. — I am distradted. — I am wild to know the reason
of it. -- Now this looks devilish bad on my
fide; — nothing can be more suspicious. — But then: again, if She is totally indifferent to me, why does Sire think it worth while to alter a carriage which was not in the least censurable.? Why does She think at all about me? I cannot account for the proceeding. I only know, that we were upon this moil agreeable intimate footing imaginable, before this same alteration. — She would walk with me, chat with me, read with me, nay, dance with me, even after ihe had refused other people, and Sit down with me when She had done— — would Suffer me to press her Snowy hand in mine, to touch her lovely hair, and to take a thousand other liberties, which gave me, infinite delight and could not possibly do her any harm, though they might not give her the pleasure which I was So eager to communicate. — ■ — She now studiously Slruns me every wdiere, and avoids every opportunity of Speaking to me alone j Sire pulls away her hand, in a hurry, whenever I offer to take hold of it, and Starts from iny touch, as if it was contagious. I cannot, for rrw soul, find out the meaning of all this. — I have Sometimes thought — make a little allowance for
• .1. rt • -1 r TN T vr - _ I it.
L re L vvd u ts. i, 37
fore a third person, and whom I know not how to
Shake off. -- -- -- But I must be egregiously mifta
jjgn.___in the first place, She cannot be jealous,
without being in love; Secondly, She is become more attached to this very Mrs. Mead, than to any other woman, who, by the way, is grown So very Silly with her Suspicions, and So extremely indelicate with her favours,, that Sire is by no means a proper companion for lady Charlotte. — Coxcomb as I am! I thoueht lady Charlotte was purity itself j a character of the angelic kind. — -- Nevermore will I reckon
upon the most favourable expression in the fairest
face____the whole Sex are deceitful — Howe- --
if la^iy Charlotte had behaved to me with her usual consderation, my doubts v/itli regard to female constancy would have been entirely removed j I Should have tried her, you may be assured— — —
Severely tried her before I — -- -- But what am I
saying?? — -- -- anxiety, my distradtion at this cruel
change in her carriage, forces me to discover what i woulddesire to hide, not only from you, from myself
__\do\ovt her -- -- There- -- -- -- -- the murder’s
om .____iwishimay not repent of my pasiion for
her as long as I breathe. were Tin my lasl agonies,
the near approach of death would not give half So much disturbance to my mind, as the thoughts of being cozened by a woman. — No — She Shall never know her power over me. — don’t laugh at me Jack;
could I have kept this diabolical Secret from you,
you Should never have been acquainted with it. —
I am to the lull degree, aslramed of myself; and, yet at the Same time, I could give up my life Sora ieturn of that felicity which | enjoyed in her Societ7 before thiscurfed goolnefs in her behaviour to me.,
LET.
JO i.i.xoiwrs.xvyi;
«
LETTER XIII
From the Same to the same.
IT is not to be endured. I must Speak or die; nothing can Save me. — This enchanting witch Still continues in the Same reserved Style of behaviour. — Yet, what can I Say? I have no right to demand a reason for carriage, without accounting for my
own; — and I am determined not to explain the meaning of my deportment, even to lady Charlotte. I
mutt, therefore, be Silent, be blind. Would to
heaven I were deaf, dumb, anything rather than what I am. — But why all this diftress, you will say — is Sire lost, is She gone, has fire given herself to ano
'there? -- No— — I take breath again — She
has not yet doomed me to abfdlute despair, by any Such decisive proceeding against me : She has not even increased her civility to Evelyn; She behaves equally to us both, angel as She is; — and, yet, I am miserable, because She has deprived me of all the Sweet indulgencies I enjoyed before; — indulgencies, which if they were ever allowable, might, certainly, be now admitted, as I never, knowingly or designedly, abused them — 1 am mad to come at thecause of this Strange alteration in her. — 1 will Speak — ' will
ass her to explain her motives. -- -- 1 have made
two or three attempts to gratify my preslingcuriosity, but have always been interrupted, either by the breaking in of company upon us, or by her chilling comnesk She takes uncommon pains to avoid me;
ffie is continually with Adrs. Mead -- -- What a
grange, what an unnatural connexion! Surely the widow cannot have presumed to breathe a thought against

J, IX VY vy JJ VIX i. yy
gainst me to her. -- -- If I had any Suspicions of
that nature, I would make her retract, or blow her to the devil. 1 must, therefore, come to an eclair ciffement. — The Sooner the better. -- An intruder
prevents me from going on.
mmmm
LETTER XIV
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs.
Bl OM E R.
I HAVE acted jusl as I told you I would; my behaviour has had a good csfedt upon lord Woburn; he looks Sufficiently corrected;; as to poor Mrs. Mead, I cannot make anything of her. I am afraid, from her shyness, that She has Something at heart
not quite fit to be communicated -- -- -- Be as
sured, my dear Mrs. Blomer, I would not encourage Suspicions injurious to her, were I not almost certain, that She has put it into his lordsliip’s power to
- treat her impertinently. -- -- The fault, then,
you will naturally Say, is chiefly on his Side. — --
It is So, 1 own; but what a miserable temper? What a bad heart must he pcstess, who can use a woman ill, merely, perhaps, for being too indulgent to him?
— -- -1 have made Several offers of my friendsliip to
her, by mentioning lord Woburn in a favourable manner, looking, at the Same time, as if 1 thought I
Should make her happy by So mentioning him -- -- -- -
After having produced only bluoies, Sighs, and tears, by my well meant officiousness, I ventured to ask her the other day, if lord Woburn, who really appeared anriable, could have posiibly given occasion to So much concern ?- — She replied, but with an increased confusion,

x ± u X ^ I JR
susion, “That lord Woburn was nothing to her.” " — She then left me immediately, and has Shuned me ever Since, as much as posiible, without bhing particular— — pursues rne every where, and by redoubling his solicitude and attentions, endeavours to recommend himself — but to very little purpose, as I have had the good fortune, hitherto to prevent a tete-a-tete, without appearing to the rest of the company to think about it. — I Seem to be quite indifferent, quite easy about lord Woburn; but I am not
So. -- -- — Will you not condemn me, when I tell you -
that I am very much mortified at not being ..able to learn from Mrst Mead, the cause ofher quarrel with
my lord -- -- if they really have had a quarrel. -- -- -
I wish to develbpe their conduct, with regard to each other J but as I can give not One good reason for my eagerness to be informed of what is no way interesting to’me, I must, ofcourfe, be prompted by an idle curiosity. — ^ — I wish myself a thousand times a day with you in Yorkshire; and, in Spite of all lady euston can say to thc' contrary, shall certainly' think of Setting out from hence, unless Mrs. Elliot Should accomplish her design of coming to London a* month Sooner than usual,
L E T
L E T T E R XV
Lord' Woburn:, to Mr. Wilmot..
At last, with the greatesl difficulty, I have Seized" a moment to Speak to lady Charlotte. She
was reading alone, in the parlour. -- -- -- -- -- -- She
rdse, in order to leave the room, as soon as' I entered it. -- -- 1 caught her by the gown for Sire hastisy
drew back her hand) and afited her; what I had done to make her so extremely Shy of me.?
“You are quite out of the question, my lord; I have jusl finished my book, and am going up to my own apartment.”
She turned away her face, purposely, that her" features might not confirm the falfehopds which her tongue had uttered;
Supposing what you have Said' to be true, madam, replied', I, the Singularity of your behaviour, obvious' to everybody, during this last fortnight, by ftudious ly avoiding me, induces me to imagine that you are either osfended at Something which I have inadvertently Said or done, that you discovered Somethirg; in me very disagreeable to you, or that you are yourselfa little capricious.
“You may chuse which you will of these reasons,
” Said She, bluslring, and Smiling -- -- -- -- - “1
am not obliged to declare which of them is the true one; — perhaps you have not yetguested the true onej perhaps all you have mentioned do honour to youe= penetration.”
Did you ever hear such an answer? Had Sire not looked So exquisitely handsome, I will not Say what I i; pight have retorted J but I bridled my anger.
“If you leave me at liberty to choose, madam, I
shall..
in order to exculpate myself from any misde raeanour, impute your present cold' and resirved behaviour, to the frckleness of your own disposition, which has hurt me not a little, because I vasa fraid Iliad actually, though involuntarily, offended you.
-- -- -- -- However, I cannot absolutely condemn it, as
you have been led to make so charming an apology
for it. — -- -- -- -- We. are, therefore friends again, ”
continued st going to press herlovely hand to my lips.
“Hold, my lord, ” replied She, drawing back her hand, “as we have had no difserence, no excul'es
are necesihry on either Side. -- -- -- You are mistaken
if you imagine that I intended to make any, nor did. I expect or desire any from your lordship.”
“So very indifferent, ” Said I — piqued to deaths at her coolness. “And, pray, why did your ladyship favour me with the lea st degree of intimacy, if you were determined to put a flop to it without any reason at all ?”.
“I am not obliged, lord Woburn, to give any reasons to anybody for my conduct;; am Satisfied
with it myself. -- -- But to prevent your importuning,
me again upon this subject, know, that if I did enter into what you call an intimacy with you, L adted inadvertently; a little reflection soon convinced me of the impropriety of my behaviour, and the alteration in it naturally followed.
“But, pray, madam, what impropriety can there be in your chatting, walking, or dancing with me.” “There will be not the least, my lord, when your behaviour to women ceases to be exceptionable.”
“And who has charged me with any impropriety
in my behaviour to women? -- -- -- -- But, 1 believe, I am
acquainted with the person who has endeavoured to Set you against me, and She Shall Severely repent of her malicious accusation. — ”
“Stay
%'
“Stay, my lord, ” Said She, interrupting me, “you tie upon a Subject which is of no importance to northeast.
— -- -- -- Not a creature has Spoken of you to me in the
, manner you apprehend. -- -- -- -- - — What I have Said
arose entirely from my own observation.”
“Is this actually the truth, dear lady Charlotte ?■” — replied I, pleased to find'that my widow had'not
been tattlin? — -- -- - “and has Mrs. Mead Said nothing
against me? — ”
“No, upon ujy honour -- -- -- -- -- Mrs. Mead never
mentioned you to me. -- -- -- -- -- But ycur ftrstiicicns,
with regard to her, mult have resulted from your confcioushess of having given her room to complain
of you. -- -- -- -- Come, my lord. Since we are sofar
engaged upon this topic -- -- 1 have, indeed, no business
with it, but on her account, who is I believe,
very unhappy; -- -- let me persuade you to look upon
her in a better light, and to treat her with more consideration, as She is, I ampersuaded, very fensibly touched by your neglect” ”
“can you, madtm, after what you have just said to me, wisli me to renew my intimacy with Mrs. Mead? you must certainly be ignorant of the nature ' of it; for I. cannot suppose that She has prevailed on you to approve of the connexion between us.”
“Indeed, my lord, ” ansvvered She, blushing like Scarlet, “I am quite ignorant of your attachment to Mrs. Mead, but finding her extremely amiable and observing — everybody, indeed, makes the same remarks — that She is very unhappy on jour account j I thought, I confess, that you behaved to her with an unbecoming negligence, rather bordering upon contempt; and, I will also own, that, fupposing ihe could not have merited that negligence, 1 had a very bad opinion of you. — In consequence of that opinion, I deemed it highly necestary to Sliun a man capable of behaving in So cruel a manner to any woman.
man, especially to a woman So very pleasing, both in her person and temper, as Mrs. Mead certainly is.” Charming creature! Did you ever, Wilmot, hear one woman plead So powerfully for another.? — The only one, too, who had any pretenslons to be a rival to her.? Her candour, her good nature, half reconcile me to the Sex. — Yet there must be a confounded defedt’somewhere, to counter;; these rare virtues. — Women, in general, are inveterate foes to each other armed with calumny, they are always carrying.on hostilities; and the wounds, which they mutally inflict, are the more painful, as they
are given in the dark. -- -- -- -- But foreturn to the
enchanting Charlotte. — Adoring her for having discovered so excellent a disposition, I thought it incu.m bent on me to make a full confesiion of my folly with regard to Mrs. Mead, whom I could not be said to expose, by relating the exact sooting.we were upon to lady Charlotte, because She had declared' herself filled with Sentiments in her favour, and interested in her happiness— — I wanted to open my heart to the lovely Charlotte upon this Subject j I was determined indeed, not to own that I loved her, but I was resolved to convince her, if ppflible, that I loved no other woman;
After having entreated her to hear me patiently,. I, with all the fuccindtnefs in my power, and with" all the delicacy which the Subject required told her the whole affair, and made her sensible, at last, that’ Mrs Mead had, in effect, made overtures of the tenderest nature to me; and that her anger and resentr ment were kindled against me, because I' had chosea to break off a connexion to which I had no inclination; and, by the continuance of which, her honour would have been considerably injured.
The frankness of this confesiion, with the reflections I made upon it, concerning the general corruption among the fair sexj and compliments obliquely’
directed
* ^
jli IS. VV W D W reit. 4: 5.
directed to her, made my peace. — Yet had you Seen how Sweetly She blushed, and averted her lovely eyes while I Spoke to her ofher favourite’s frailty — you would have owned that there never was a
more heavenly creature -- -- 1 did not however, escape
a chiding, for having exposed the weakness of a woman, who had only acted with indiscretion from her too great partiality for me. In reply, I told her that I had not mentioned the affair to anybody except herfelst and that I would keep it an inviolable Secret; adding, indeed, that I could not bear to See her cultivate an intimacy with a woman So little deserving of her esteem- -- -- -- was Silent, and Soon afterwards
turned the conversation upon less personal topics. — We parted friends. — She now no longer flies .from me; yet there is a delicate kind of reserve hanging about her, which gives an additional lustre to the charms of which She is already postested. — What pleases me moult, is her behaviour to Mrs. Mead; no creature would in the leasl imagine She had heard anything towards the impeachment of her
character. -- She never Seeks her company, ’tis
true; but when they are together accidentally. She treats her with a gentleness, and a consideration, which while they throw a veil over her failings, prevent the luslre of her own merit from being too cp preflive. — Never did I see So amiable a carriage. — She must have as I have Said before, Some capital blemishes. — I cannot yet detect them. — Beauties alone do I at present discover — I feel my heart lighter on
being restored to her favour. -- -- -- She behaves
almost as freely as She used to do : though Sire Sometimes appears to be checked by her apprehensions with regard to me, — i will endeavour to remove all apprehensions by an increasing respect, naturally resulting from an increafmg esteem.
Your's as usual,
W.
L K IV
46 H I S T O R Y O P
LETTER XVI
Eady Charlotte Morden, to Mrs. Blomer,
ihave'been so astoiiislred, by a discovery which lord Woburn has made, in relation to Mrs, Mead, that! am hardly yet in a condition to write to you. That Sire is culpable, is certain; but Should lord
Woburn have exposed her.? -- Let me consider. —
He declared his triumph over her, purely on my account, that I might not be too Intimate with a person, whose reputation would not Stand a Striitt Scrutiny; will not Such a proceeding, on his Side, plead Strongly in his favour.? He is more respedtful, more astiduous to gain my good opinion than ever; is he
not, therefore, entitled to my pardon Yet you
cannot conceive how much I feel for this poor Mrs. Mead ■; She looks like the picture of despair; ' I can see, however, that though She discovers nothing but dejedtion in public, She does not want Spirit when Sire is in private with lord Woburn her anger, then, gets
the better of her love; So it ought to do. 1 only
wish that ihe would show her resentment, rather by a contemotuous than a I'urious behaviour : for rage must only tend to make her lesi desirable in his eyes, and lets respectable in her own. In Short, I think, She has nothing to do but to quit the caslie immediately, and to endeavour, by her Suture discretion,
to retrieve her charadler. lady spilsbury and Mlfs
Facely, who either do not look upon her in the light I behold her, or do not imagine her behaviour to lord Woburn as criminal as it is, asfedl to treat her with a mortifying kind of pity to her face, and behind her back, Sneer at her moult intolerably, throwing out.
L U K U W J D U K JN. .4: ^
at the same time, broad hints on the extreme impropriety of henconducl. — Their censures are Severe, and their mirth immoderate, whenever Sire is mentioned. I wonder lord Woburn does not persuade her to go
away. -- -- What a pity.it is, that women Should give
men such advantages over theml — -- -- -- He may Say
what he will, but he certainly was the sirsl aggrestor, by taking particular notice of this lady, who was weak enough to imagine that he was in love with her : admire her he did,, undoubtedly; for She is ex ceedingly pretty; 'but there is a wide difference between love and admiration, especially that Sort of love which is founded on esteem; and, without which, no woman Should Surrender her heart. Lord Woburn is rather, in my opinion, a dangerous man. He lays all the blame, indeed, upon the Shocking sorwardness of our Sex j but I cannot entirely exculpate him. ‘I think it highly neceslary to be upon my guard; yet I do not approve of being quite Sliy and reserved neither; by Such an appearance,! Should give him room to suppose that I suspedled him of having a design upon me. — He declares he cannot put up with Scorn in any womian; if I am, therefore, too Scornful, I may provoke his reseiit ment, and in a fit of resentment, he may meditate revenge.
I Shall Soon return to town, but .cannot well leave ■ this place till my house'is ready to receive me. — Sorry am I, indeed, that you cannot, without breaking with your Sister Scot, be my first guest, as you are my first friend. — However, present or absent, yoox will ever be entitled to, and may be ever asmred of tny fincereit esteem,
/
I am your’s, unchangeably,
■charlotte Morden.
L E T
nioiv/jxx r
i
LETTER xvil,
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
✓
Mrs. Mead has, at lasl, taken herself away;
but what of her.? — Lady Charlotte is going to leave us also, I fear : she has not yet lived in a
house by herself, but always with fvirs. Elliot.
Now Sire is of age, they have taken a house for her in St. james’s Square, and are Settling her household. — I intend to be a constant visitor, if She will admit me, as a friend only, not as a lover; you understand me. — Before I appear — if I ever appear — ■ in that character, I mult find out her hidden imoerr fedlions — for irnperfedtions Sire, undoubtedly, has; and, as I am Sure I Shall not be able to discover them without a long, and posiibly a very intimate acquaintance, I must endeavour to procure leave Scr admittance; I must, however condu6t myself in Such a manner, as not to be in the least suspedted — Evelyn too as he admires her as much as ever, will I suppose take Some Steps towards keeping up an acquaintance,
which has given him both pleasure and pain; -- -- --
I would, therefore, advise him to drop it; but lovers are not the people in the wmrld most inclined
to attend to the voice of admonition. -- He may,
indeed, have hopes — perhaps he may have encouragements to indulge them — I am not able to write a long letter today; my Spirits are bad, and I have a violent headache- -- - — inust lay down my pen for the present.
L E r
C J V ^ i V * ▼ f ^ Mm M A €
LETTER XVIII
«
Lady Chabilotte Morden to Mrs.
Blomer.
YOU bid me take care of lord Woburn, my dear friend ^ I thank you for your caution. — Were I, indeed, to believe all that I have heard about him lately, I should Stand much in need of it; but I have been very Slow in believing ill reports concerning anybody. — You Shall, however, judge yourself how far I have been right here.
Mrs. Mead left the Cajile two days ago; She left iford v\^oburn, I could See plainly, with great reluctance. -- She could not indeed publicly bid him adieu, without betraying a concern Suiricient to Sharpen the eye of fuspicion against herr— — weakness of her mind was too evident, by the whole turn ofher behaviour, which had such an esfedtupon lady spi’s bury and miss Facely, that they laughed aloud. — As to Sir Francis and lady Eufton, they are people who never take notice of anything, unless it is pointed out to them -- Their insenfibility, almost bordering
upon stupidity, benumbs their faculties so, that their pom^ers of comprehension are extremely feeble; they are, however, not only mighty happy in themselves,
but very convenient to others. — - — They
receive their friends and acquaintance with as little ceremony as if they kept an inn, and as if it was incumbent on them to accommodate every traveller who came by their doors: they welcome you with a hearty civility, entertain you with hospitality, and
See you depart -- -- - — with as little emotion
as if they really had never Seen you before, as if
are many Such people, I believe, in the world. — i What is a lady, receiving her company on a rout, or an ajfembly night, but the mistress osa public-house? Her guests crowd her rooms, in order to amuse themselves with each other, while She has the toil and the trouble to make the amusements of the evening agreeable to them all. -- -- With thess Sentiments you may
imagine that I have an aversion to routs': I have, indeed, no relish for them. — The person whose house is filled with company, who cannot live without cards, appears in the Same light to me as the proprietor of an astembly room. -- -- -- In many houses the
company grouped together more than defray the expenses of the night by their deposits under the candlesticks, if th. owner of them has a good correspondence with hev Servants. — Severe animadversions could I make upon the abuses of Society in general, and of the ill con Sequences attending public card.. in particular. — But to return to Mrs. Adead, As Soon as She was out of the house, lady spilsbury and miss Facely began loudly to rally lord Woburn about his widow, as they (tiled her, and made use of So many malicious sarcasms, which sarcasms were accompanied with the grossest allusions, 1 bluslied for them. — My lord, to do him justice, behaved in a very proper manner upon the occasion; for partly by indifference, and partly by contempt, he threw them cuite out of their play : he even had the grace So far to vindicate Mrs. Mead, as to Speak with the highesl commendation of the great decency of her manners, and the discretion, which She discovered, by not taking notice, improperly, of those indelicacies and in discretions in her friends, which She could not have
overlooked. -- -- This defence of her did him, in my
opinion, a great deal of honour.
“Decency and discretion, ” Said lady spilsbury, while miss Facely approved of what She uttered with her eyes, ” are qualifications so little regarded now,
that
L O R D W O B URN. 51
tat those who have any pretensionto them, receive no kind of advantage from them— — the boast -^ of them is certainly ridiculous; ” — adding, with, a strong Sneer, “the widow’s very decent and dip creet appearance has been of very Small Service to her.”
My lord replied, rather warmly, ** that Mrs. Mead was Superior to most of her Sex.”
“Upon my word, ” Said lady spilsbury, half irritated, “you pay us all, even lady Charlotte too, a high compliment, by stipposing that Mrs. Mead caa have any Superiority over us.”
“Mrs. Mead, ” replied my lord, “has good qualities, with which you Seem to be unacquainted 5 but admitting She has no good ones, you only lesten
yourself by endeavouring to expose her. -- -- - — Lady
Charlotte [bowing resjpedlfully to me] has too much sense, and too much good nature to join in calumniating any of her sex.”
With these words he left the room, and left me to hear such Severe invectives against himself and Mrs. Mead, that had I not made it a rule never to believe a quarter of the Scandal addressed to my ears,
I Should have entertained Sentiments very unfavourable indeed to them both. However, not chusing to vindicate people of whose merits and demerits I was So incompetent a judge V dio can always answer, in every respeit, even for themselves?) nor caring to hear the Same conversation continued, I quitted them abruptly, leaving them to make what comments they pleased on my Silence, for wdiich I Shall probably be loaded with aspersions Similar to those they So liberally bestowed upon the abovementioned
gentleman and lady. -- -- -- vere it not northeast
cestary for me, on many accounts, to be very cir cum.spedt, and upon my guard, though I sm persuad ed that my behaviour, after all my precaution, will be grossly miltepresentcd, the propensities of lady.
C z snilsburv
spilsbury and miss Facely to Satire, would fliffici ently Spur me to be watchful over my conduct.
Mr. evelyn’s aunt, lady Jennour, is very ill. — He. was Sent for in a great hurry, yesterday. — As cur party is lestened, I am a good deal exposed to interviews with lord Woburn. — The ladies about whom I have written so much, not being able to make him
attached to them, begin to let him alone. as I am
not fond of being particular in anything, and as my lord treats me with rather more than less respeft, I return bis civilities, but without distinguishing them from those which I receive from Sir Francis euston, or from any accidental visiter at the caslle.
LETTER XX
% ^
Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
WHAT infernal devils are women, when they have a mind to display their diabolical accomplishments! — In my last I left off because I was not well : mydisorder was but a trifling one, yet it was too painful to be concealed. — In, I did not pretend to be in perfeist health, when I was very much indisposed;; that heavenly lady Charlotte, merely from her innate goodness of heart, discovered So much pity for my Sufferings, that I began to feel myself more blest than I had ever been, without the Slightest indisposition. — Her charming looks, her voice, her words, indeed, discovered nothing but compafiicn for .me; but those infamous wretches,
spilsbury
JU / J. V
» spilsbury and Facely, told me, that Sire was deeply
in Icve, and actually dying for me. -- The bare idea
of her being in love with me was So transporting, that I was almost cut of my senses j biit, on a little tsfiedion, I was convinced that my informers had littered a cursed lie, on purpose to Set us at variance with ciicli other. — — Never was I So Supremely happy as to See the Smallest Signs of love In her looks, or her behaviour to me. — “ther.o is good-humour, there b compiaisance in her carriage, but no ten
.K ' wj '
derness, no Solicitude 5 nckiirc to relieve my mind, by innocently amuting it, ia frequently perceptible 5 but there is no warmth in her manner, though I atn inflamed by her most frigid efforts to give me pleasure. — I cannot therefore, describe the indignation I felt at this intelligence : possibly, betweenourselves, I was th 2 more irritated against the intelligencers, as I was assured of its wanting authenticity.i —
I was, however, discreet enough only to request them not to trouble themselves about lady Charlotte and me, as we should never afford the entertain -- ment for them which they Seemed to wilh for and expect— — would not have lady Charlotte hear what these malicious toads have Said about her for the world 5 for I dread any new alteration in that be -- haviour, which is at present the most enchanting imaginable. ^i would not See her more cool, more
reserved for the universe. -- -- 1 dread her hurrying
away before! have gained - leave to viht her ia town. — — Have not I reason to curse the whole Sex, except this one unostending angel .?- — Bat you will
take no warning I Sind. -- -- You are determined to
engage again, -- -- -- v/hat amazing temerity i -- -- -- -- -1
Scarce know whether I ought to wiib you succefs or not. — A man who has been So abominably deceived, hardly deserves to be fticcessfui in a new ad t/'cnture.
C 3: HE Ty
I, •
LETTER XX
Lady Citarlotte Morden to Mrs. Blomer.
I HAVE been excesiively alarmed j Shocked, indeed, to the greatest degree. — The danger, thank heaven, is not so great as I at sirst apprehend dead; yet I am So convinced of the difhculty of palling through life with an unblemished reputation, that I am almost ready to fequester myself entirely from the world. — ’tis imposiible, I Sind, to escape the asper iions of scandal’s viperous tongue, though one really does nothing to deserve them.
I don’t remember whether I told you, that lord Woburn has not been very well for Several days. As he really appeared dejected, and distressed by his disorder, though it did not Seem violent enough to confine him to his apartment — I employed myself, perhaps unnecessarily, (but I was prompted by a desire to divert him from attending to the violent headache of which he complained) to amuse him by reading. Singing, drawing, and playing at crib bage with him. — Lady spilsbury and Mils Facely thought proper to misreprefent my motives most impertinently. — I happened, luckily, to. overhear a conversation between them and my lord, in which I vas traduced in the friendlieft terms imaginable, I was in the Shrubbery at the Same time, but concealed from them, I cannot describe what I felt at the calumnies thrown out against me, ncr can! do iustice to lord woburn’s very proper replies to them, which were delivered in a manner Strongly expres^ ssve of his contempt, indignation, and disbelief, but not of his resentment— — indeed, would only have rendered them more furious j would have, induced
_1 J AXE ■ f ji. ^ • J ^
induced them to circulate Still more atrocious falsehoods about me.
After what I have written, you will, I dare say,
think it high time for me to leave the castle. yet
1 will not quit it abruptly, because I would not have them believe that they, or any other people, are able to make me uneasy. — By a precipitate departure I Should only give encouragement to their suspicions.
-- -1 am pleased to see that lord Woburn,
with all his faults, is not coxcomb enough to behave impertinently to me, upon a hint which w’ould have made many men behave So, who have, in general, ■better characters, v/iih regard to their carriage to women, than hislcrdihip. — As Soon as my house ts ready, it will be quite necestary for me to return to town.
LET T E R XXI
#
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
I HAVE been in a mosl disagreeable Situation.’ Evelyn returned a few days ago in deep mourning for a lady who has left him all her fortune; ’a fortune large enough to justify his pretensions to lady Charlotte. — He Spoke, and was refused. — I leave you to imagine, for I cannot describe the agitation I felt before he made his overtures, and the joy which his departure from the castle gave me, in consequence
of his being repulsed as a lover. -- However, lady
Charlotte and I have not yet mentioned so important an event to each other, though we are upon the most friendly termsi — she goes to London in a few days. — I Seized a moment, when her Setting osfwas
mentioned -- -- -- -- with Something like regret, if She is
capable of feeling any — by lady Eufton, to ask her
permisiioix
.J.. i V X X i
permisilon to see her, when her doors were open sober other friends. — She bluslied, a favourable reply j but the words which accompanied her blaslies were hardly intelligible. — Her behaviour to Evelyn has made me very happy j — but I am pained to think of her quitting the castle. — How many delightful hciira have I Spent with her j ■ — ... Such liouxs, perhaps, I Shall never enjoy a^ain. — cannot, lucked, expert to be West with Such hours {« London, unkfs year upon another footing, — \ I could have? whiled away ray days for ever as her friend, her admirer- -- lover too, but not her de dared one. — I must knows great deal more ofher before I make a declaration of iovs - — Nay, I don’t think I nrall have courage to venture, Should there see nothing discoverable to deter me, after what I have Seen of the sex, and after wh*t our friend Casey has Suffered by them, — But then I Slrould have been happier if I had never met with this lady Charlotte. — I find new beauties in her every day — yet, what are they to me? They will aever fall to my Slrare y Some unfeeling fellow, recommended to her by her guardian as a proper man in point of rank and fortune J a fellow, perhaps, who has a Set of old musty principles, just strong enough to keep hirn fronr committing any enormities in the eye of the world, may have her in his power, without being able to enjoy her charms. — To think of Such a heavenly creature’s lying by the frozen Side of insensibility! — ► Racks and tortures 1 — She writes too— — would give the world to see her letters to Mrs. Blomer, Mrs. elliot’s Sister, who is gone over to Ireland to be with another Sister, Mrs. Scot, a widow also. — I wonder whether they are like my widow. — I suppose not, as lady Charlotte is So fond of them— — She Seemed to have a partiality for Mrs. Mead, who had not,
I fancy, art enough to deceive her.
B'
In CONTINUATION.
jusl come from a little romping bout in, the' Wood, lady spilsbury and Harriot not being able to make anything more of me, were determined to come in for a few kistes at least, before I left the castle;; they may reasonably suppose, from the appearance of things, that! Shall not Stay long after Charlotte. — I had, indeed, been peeping about all the' morning, expecting to Sind a lucky moment to take'' my leave of her without witnestes. — I was pursued by those two furies, and hunted up into a close corner; ^one of them Snatched my hat, the ' other Seized ray book — this was tolled to the right, that whirled to the left, and So I was obliged to, lay hold on them both out of self-defence. — In the very height of our play — if play it could be called — Charlotte appeared — Never was her Superior loveli ’ ness So eonspicucusly strikir.g. ^she was advancing, hut Seeing me half undreit by these wild women, my waistcoat unbuttoned, the lace partly torn off the bosom osmy Slrirt, my hair pulled ail about my ears, • while they both held me sast — Seeing me in this condition, She Stepped back, Scandalised at Such rio tous proceedings. — ^ breaking immediately from these ' wmnton devils, I ran up to her, and told her the cause of my Savage appearance, imploring her as sistance, in order to conquer my tormenting adversaries. — Sweetly Smiling, and walking on. She replied, “You must excuse me from interfering between you and the ladies, as I am quite ignorant of your disputes.”
“There has been no dispute, ” cried Harriot, only he will Sit Stupidly poring over his bock, and wedon’t choose to let him, as we want him to chat with us.”
“Nay, then, ” Said I, “Silence you I must and wili.” ^ — Then throwing them down inrhehay grass,
‘ I kisted
C C
J L JL X V X XV X ya 1
I kisted them till I was absolutely weary, though they Seemed to have no notion of being fatigued with the diversion. — As lady Charlotte instantly disappeared, I hurried after her, and throwing my arm round her waist — “now, ” said I, totry her * »_ “’tis your turn.”
“Hold, ray lord !” cried Sire, Struggling, and glowing with modesty and resentment at my familiarity — you, know 1 told you at sirst that she was ■ monstrously proud.
“Come, come, my lady, ” replied I, “a Singh modest kiss, permitted by you, is worth a thousand
Solicited by these loose ones. — You cannot -- Shall
not — mult not refuse me. — You See I do not attempt to treat you like them; but I Swear I will have ont kiss.” — I persevered, and! Succeeded. — Never, Jack
in my whole life, did I press Such delicious tips.
She is, indeed, a glorious girl. — Her blushes, hei confusion, her timidity, and her pretty Starts o anger at my freedom, made me long to repeat mj offence — a thousand times over— — dared not, how ever, to make a Secondattempt upon herlovely lips — Bye and bye, perhaps, we may be irpon better term.'. — She will not bear hurrying, I find; I must. therefore. Strike to her now, that She may be induced to surrender to me hereafrer.™ impetuous as naturally am, I can be a Fabius, when I have i point of consequence in view. r -- But She going fron hence. — No more of these enchanting opportunitie.’ to melt her to my wishes — Why cannot we remair together here another month ?- — Down, down impatience.
r ■ * ' ^
. >■
%
LET
LORD WOBURN. 59
L B T T E st xmt
Frcm the same to the Same;
SHE has made a downright quarrel of it -- -- -- - — s
that is, a dumb one, for She will not Speak to
me. -- -- -- This must be all asfedlation, for I am Sure
Sire was pleased. -- -1 Saw her satissadfion in her
languishing eyes, I tasted it upon her balmy lips, I felt it in her trembling hands. However I mult let her have her own way a little, I Swear to you this coy ing it is of infinite Service to me; it keeps up a man’s appetite Surprisingly. — The womenwho au: in a contrary manner, don’t know their own interest. -- How fulsomely fond are spilsoury and Facely! Nay, indeed, my little widow was a coming one. It is aftonisliing to me, that, they don’t See, that by keeping us off, they only bring us on the faslter; but, in truth, the Sex in general are So intolerably forward
that they disgust me. -- -
I don’t at all like lady charlotte’s parting dissalis sled with me. — I die for art opportunity to make my peace with just the fellow kiss to that which tired my Soul. — But there are no hopes. — She pretends that She has received a letter, which will oblige her to Set out for Yorkshire directly— — this is not art. my fine lady, Thave done with you; that is, you have cut off all those hopes I had began to encour age of ycur being So much better than any other woman. -- -- Whether Sire is as virtuous and Sincere as
Sire Seems to be, I will not prefnme to Say — I have
Strong doubts J but I am Sure She is lovely, -^-
and will make, as I told yen before, a delicious mis tress, Mad, hevrever, as I am to postefs htr, charmed
j M s A Jk A A ^ ^ A jm
ed with her person, and her manners, the one uncommonly beautiful, the other uncommonly bewitching, I Shall take no great trouble to gain her, — I Shall only behave to her in such a manner, as to let her see that She is thoroughly to my taste, and that She may make a conquesl of me whenever She pleases. — As to availing mysels of the customary arts of Seduction — I hold them in the utmosl deteslation; they are beneath a man of honour, or a man of sense; — they Sink hirri lower than the lowest of his Species. — we usiially call a fellow who degrades himself a brute; but too hastily— — brute who adls only agreeable to his nature, is a nobler animal than the man who abu seshis intelle«sts, by enaploying themio delude the fairest, though the weakest part of the creation, out of their virtue. — No, Wilmot, if you think that I wisli to take any improper advantages of any woman, you do me the grgateft injustice. — So far from making them worse, 1 wish to see them better than they are; if, indeed ihej fall, without my ujjiftance, I don’t tell you that I will not receive them with open arms. — ■ Into my heart would I receive this, adorable Charlotte, could I be astured — -- -- -- but She is going,
and Scarce deigns to Savour me with a Single look— — this in niy humble opinion, is carrying things top far.
LE .D
7' • *
L O R U w U b u K oi
y
Is E T T E R XXIIK
Lady Charlotte M o r » e n td
Mrs. B L o M E R.
IH A VK just received a letter from Mr. Elliot, to inform'me that Mrs. Elliot is extremely ill. — ■ Imagine my trouble at this unwelcome news : I shall Set out immediately for Elliot place. — How is' my concern doubled when I think of your not being there! Yet, upon Second thoughts, if our dear friend is indeed So ill, you will not be dreadfully pained at the Sight of her in the midst of her fiifferings. — ■ — My eagerness to be in Yorkshire, prevents me from
taking time to write a longer letter at present.
You Shall hear from me as soon as I am arrived.
-- -- In the meanwhile believe me to be, as usual,
that is,
Your sinceresl friend,
Charlotte mostdeni
«
>
L E r
$9 H 1 S 1 O R Y O i‘
LETTER XXIV
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
SH E is gone, the dear creature is gone; nor would Sire Suffer me to bid her adieu, in the manner I wislied. — Yeti luckily Seized a moment of privacy to Solicit my pardon, which was granted, indeed; but Sire behaved, at the Same time, with a coolness, with an indifserence, as if fire thought me not of consequence enough to engage her attention. I again entreated her permillion to visit her on her return to London, but She neither rejected nor complied With my request j you may be assured, therefore, that I Shall go.
“She half consents who silently denies.”
I have a Strong suspicion that I am not in the' least disagreeable to her; but She cannot bring herself to acknowledge her partiality for me. — Pride!
-- -- pride!! — have, indeed, hitherto only alksd the
question with my eyesj ^ — by her extreme cautiousness about looking at me, I fancy She is afraid of making
a reply too favourable to me -- -- Time will ihev/.
— — But We may be Separated a great while, and
a rival may be successful. -- -- -- -- I will hcpe for
the belt. -- -- 1 Shall not, however, continue here,
though She corresponds with lady euston. — — I am weary of the female part of the family, who, to make themselves ffill more odious, begin to teaxe
me about lady Charlotte. -- -- -- Whatever I think,
I Shall not make them my confidantes. — -- -- -- -- -
i will accept of Sir george’s and my sister’s invitation to Spend a month with them at tluxiey park,
LORD W O B U R N. 6^3
LETTER XXV
>
Lady Csarlotte Morden to Mrs. Blomer, at Dublin.
I W AS happy enough, my dear friend, to Sind
our dear Mrs. Elliot better when! arrived J but
bein delighted with my kind expedition. She has wearied herself with contriving amusements for me, in order to reward me, She says, for giving myfeif
she trouble' of coming down on her account
The pleasure I felt in Seeing her So much better on my arrival than I expected, from Mr. elliotv letter, is inexpressible.
Mrs. Elliot not only procures a variety of entertainments for me, but has also found out a lover
Not being just at this time quite So well pleased with him as he Seems to be with me, I have, very formally, declared my dislike to his addresfes. — There is no getting rid of Some people— — man I ■ believe has a good character, a‘s well as a large estate j yet, I confess, my dear Mrs. Blomer, I musl see a mixture of the agreeable with the good, in the person who profesfes himself roy lover, before I can consent to pafs the remainder of my life with him. -- -- You will, perhaps look very Serious at this declaration, and remind me of the old adage, rr“ “first,, love will come afterwards j” but
farely there is not an absolute necessity for my being
tied to a man for ever and' ever — — and I, certainlw shall not marry till I can love the man to whom i give my hand
.1. J. ^ XV * ^ ^
Mr. Boynton Sighs at this resoiution j and probably, you will chide me for it : burr 1 really wrslr he would give up all thoughts of me. — > — I find myself too much disposed to laugh whenever he grows Serious. — i i Sometimes think I Shall never be mar -- ried, because I am unreasonable in my'expectations; because I want an impossibility — perfection. I cannot think' of giving encoirragement to a man of bad ' principles j neither can I encourage the asiiduities
of a ■ man who has none at all. -- -- -- -- Boynton, is So
Slavish'a Sycophant, So abject a flatterer, that he echoes my words, and never makes the Slightest opposition tomy'sentiments, except when I throw out
expresfions calculated to destroy his hopes. -- -- Yeti
do not look upon myscls as inclined to give pain to those who discover a particular regard for me. — Why now, only to mention Evelyn — “there was '
Something So Soft, So gentle, So pleasing in his manners, that I could not posiibly allow myself to be either harsli or ill natirred to him; T find nothing but contempt rising in my mind for Boynton, which
I do not, however, think he entirely merits- -- --
never excites my anger, for he is beneath it; and as I never feel myself dispofed to be angry with him when he follows rne, so neither do I ever treat him with rriore than a Smile at the civilest things addresh Sed to my person, cc. — Those Speeches, indeed, are truly diverting, because they are snrmense ly extravagant : you would laugh to See me run to my glass, when he had delivered a high flown panygeric, and to hear me very gratefully thank Heaven for not having formed me deserving of them.
-- -- -- How disgusting is the gross adulation which
Some coxcombs lavish upon the women, whom they pretend to admire 11 have been always ready to believe, that their imaginationswere more fired than
their hearts. -- -- There is frequently more meaning
in a glance, a touch of the hand, a Single word, than
in
JL. ts. jl; vv w d u is. i. 05
in the most elaborate Speeches. nolle and non
fense generally go together. -- besides, when a
man utters So many fine things before marriage, what will he have to say afterwards? If Boynton continues to be so prostrse of his eloquent expreshons, I must endeavour to teach him tfzoeconomy of words. Excuse me, my dear, if my Sentiments Should not thoroughly correspond with yours j but as I' never Should think of marrying, without a view of ren -- deling iri)!lclf even happier than I aimat present j So you may be afsiired that I Shall never unite my sels to a man who will not, according to all appearances, be more worthy of my affedbon and'esteem ^
the longer I live vrith him.. Boynton is not, I
am certain, capable of making an improving husband— — idea.? are So totally different, that there cannot be an alliance between them.
Pray, believe me, my dear, to be
Your ever affedtionate.
Charlotte morderr.
S. I Shall inclose this in Mrs. elliot’s letter to lord Sundon, who will forward it in his packet to Dublin.
LETTER XXVI
Lord. Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
Huxley park
Y A M' here, in the oddest frame of mind to be J[ conceived. -- -- was pretty much out of humour
on my arrival; and an incident, Since my arrival, has made me Still more out of humour with.
myfeuv
* I
tnyself. -- -- 1 wish So ardently to see lady Charloltc
in town, that my impatience is almost ungovernable.
Lord Sundon is, you know, Sir George huxley’s friend and neighbour. We all Spent Monday evening with him -- -- -- The postman brought a packet
of letters from York.. There was one among them from Mrs. Elliot, and one enclosed to Mrs. Blomer.
. -- -- -1 knew the hand, the Seal, and the address. -- --
•lady Charlotte was distinguisliable in them all; her letter was to be Sent to Ireland, by lord sundon,
•to the care of his brother there. -- -- Never till that
moment, had I the Slightest desire to open people’s letteis; but I was then feizedwith such tormenting curiosity, that I could not conquer it. -- -- Lord Sun
don, having casi his eye over his own letter, bade the Servant lay the others upon the table in his library.
-- -- -- A thought instantly darted into my head.
-- -- -- -- 1 pretended that the light of the letters in
his lordsliip’s packet had reminded me of some dispatches which I had to Send off immediately to London } accordingly, I took the liberty of desiring my lord to give me leave to write a few lines on his table, adding, “if you cannot conveniently accommodate me, I must return directly to the Park.”
“By no means, ” replied my lord, conducting me into the very wished for room.
As Soon as he had Shut me in I Sirft devoured with ray eyes the letter which had Stimulated my curiosity, then opened it, and read it with an avidity not to described. It contained a pretty full account of lady charlotte’s Sentiments, with regard to love and marriage, which s«[uared So exactly with ray own, that I quite adored her. -- -- -- There was also a description
of a new lover, drawn up with Some' humour, whom you may suppose, Sire has refuted. — The letter pleased me extremely, as a composition, but I Should have been more pleased with it had Sira
dif.
, 1- i XX V f ‘ JL / JL v X ^ /
discovered her opinion about me in it; -- -- -- nay, had
ilie abused me- -- to mention me at all -- -- -- -- --
that’s a devilisli bad Sign j — -- -- yet I think, I am
the very man hinted at in k, Sori, certainly, like her better and better every hour; but whether She will ever feel, in her gentle bosom, sensations Similar to mine, I cannot determine. -- -- -- -- There was a noble
frankness and Spirit in her letter r there was' also a vein of pleasantry in it, which charmed me, though I was at the same time, provoked at her
So Soon forgetting me. — -- -- -- Yet, am I not rightly
Served for my unwarrantable curiosity.? -- -- -- -- Was
I not prompted by a criminal desire when I willed to dive into her private Sentiments, which ought to have remained unviolated under the Seal which was employed to guard them from the eye of impertinence — Love mull be my apologist.? — instigated
by love I forgot the dictates of honour. -- -- -- -- How
contemptible have I rendesed myfeif, to myfeif, by so Scandalous a proceeding! -- -- -- After Such a proceeding, can I ever deserve Charlotte? — -- -- -- -- How
would She justly despise me -- -- -- -- -- despise me, if
She knew of this Silly, ungenteel, unjustifiable auion!
— -- -- -- 1 must conceal my folly from her with the
utmosl care; but I cannot conceal it from myself. -- -- The Stings of self accusation !Faith!! I feel horribly ashamed. -- -- -- -- My confusion is
the only promising symptom about me at present. — Should She really be, after all, everything I have
so long wished to find in woman -- -- -- 1 Shall not deserve
her -- -- ^I am afraid; -- -- though I will make
the utmost esforts in my power to merit her esteem, — — — Iwill, positively Say no more about her nowi — I Shall write myself into a fever if 1 go on. — To
change the Subject, therefore -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - here is a
pretty girl just come from the farthest part of the North. — She is going to see London, : — that is, to he Jeen. — Have you not been used to couple ignorance
and
and innocence together, when you heard of a couft^
try girl- -- -- -- fikh creature now exists, my
friend, as a cotrntry girl artleso and unknowing. — ^ The various avenues to the metropolis, from all parts of England, have been rendered So convenient and So pleasant by bridges and turnpikes, that you Shall hardly find a girl, in the remotest corner of the kingdom, who is not as finished a flirr, by nature and education, as if Sire had frec|itentecl the politest assemblies in London. — — — Preis is thek first pasiion, adnsiration their Second \ and those united, give birth to a train of vices and Sollies, in the exhibition of which they frequently put girls bred up even in the purlieus of St, james’s out of countenance, and out of humour.
Bell Forbes b, in fas, the wildest little dcvlt
you ever met with, -- -- ’tb imposiible I believe, absolutely
imposiibse to tame her, — — She is distractedly fond of pleasure. -- She was brought up in the farthest
part of cumberland, where her amusements. were few and trifling; but now She can’t exist a moment without flying about in Search of Something new : I, wmuld as Soon attach myself to a whirligig.
■ — Lord Sundon is much taken with her j .She has undoubtedly, a very fine face, and is agood figure, taken all together; but he Seems to think there never was a woman So handsome as she is. — Yet with all her beauty, Sire is more Silly, more trifling than zr child. — Not that She wants sense — thc girl has parts j but She foolishly expects to have the whole world a door her. — In Sufferable vanity! — Lord Sundon is very liberal of his flowery and flattering Speeches to her, but I let her alone. — My negiedt hurts her pride. — besides, to tell you the truth, I believe Sire likes me hest, merely because Sire wants to draw mein to play the fool with her as much as he does — If She goes on at this rate She will be undone in a fortnight She is, indeed, in my opinion, ruined to all intents
and
LORD WOBURN. 69
and purposes already; for I look upon a corrupt - mind to be Still worse than a contaminated person. — - — — Many men would, I dare Say, think Bella perfect angel; but I fancy, She will prove a f fallen one ere long— — -- -- -- widely different
is She from lady Charlotte! With what sense and steadiness does lady Charlotte conduct herself in every Situation! With what heavenly dignity does Sire command respect!! what charming gentleness does She Steal away your Soul! — Were I not so knowing, with regard to women, as I am j — were I not pretty well assured, that they are not what they Seem, I would go and offer myfdf to .her directly
/
E T T E R XXVII
Trom the same to the Same.
U N D O N is foolislily fallen in love with this 13 Bell : the little Saucy gypsy Sees her power, and
is determined to make use of it to his cost — if he
can be Serious. He is absolutely a noble Spirited Sellow, and I Should be Sorry to See him throw himself away thus. — His pasiion for the girl has made me hate herj because.it has drawn her out in her true colours. — She can make nothing of me, and She is accordingly very much provoked. — You cannot imagine to what arts the little Slut has recourse to win me to her purpose— — and I were with her in the garden yesterday; he all raptures, lavish
C HISTORY OF
m i'
of his compliments on her beauty, and wishing with an ecstatic Sigh that he was destined to be the pof festor of her charms.
“Ay, my lord, ” cried the giddy head, “but I can’t tell anything about that; for as I am just come out of the country, I Shall not Hke to take
the first offer; -1 am willing to see more of the
world, before I six — though — let me consider, ” added Sire, with a languiflring look at me, which was followed by an arch one at Sundon, “you are both very handsome : yet I suppose, there are a thousand as fine fellows in London, whom 1 have not Seen.”
“You give a very pretty reason, ” Said I “for the natural fickleness of your temper; — and as there will be a constant succeslion of Sine fellows in London, you will probably never think of fixing, while you have a new man to admire every day, ”
Delightful !” replied Sire, with her eyes Sparkling with pleasure, “There is nothing upon earth I Should like better.”
“What a happy creature will the man be, ” answered T, “who has the honour to call you his wife — I mean only to cff//you So, child; for, I dare sa^ear, you will not, with that rage for variety, belong to any one person.”
“Nay, now you are too hard upon her, ” Said
Sundon — -- -- -- who was weak enough to take all this
for nothing but raillery.
“Not in the lead” replied She brisky, pushing him away on his going to Seize her hand. — “If I am the objeu of general observation, it will be but generous in me to return the pleasure they give me, by admiring them.”
Sundon being, at that moment, Sent for by a gentleman, who was come to dine with him, Beil Sat down by me — ( I was carelessly reclined on a garden seat) — and told me, “Sire never knew two Such idle wretches in her life j r adding, that Sire
believed
n O K LJ W U ij U K N. 71
believed I would not rise from my Seat to look at the handfomesl women in the world.”
I replied, “that I certainly Should not give myfeif any trouble about women, as they were all ready enough to court me.”
“Indeed, my lord, ” said She“ “would be ’raftly more agreeable, isyou had less vanity.”
“There I agree with you. -- -- But have you not
precisely the same failing? — When you mend, I Shall begin to reform. — Now, I am Strongly inclined to think, that if my reformation depends upon your's I Shall enjoy my vanity with great comfort to the end of my days, besides, I love myself too well to have any attachments. — ”
“Ay, you may talk, but people as Stout as you have been conquered; and, I declare, the getting the better of your obstinacy would increase the consequen^re of the woman so much, who made the attempt, that I have a violent desire to be that woman myself.”
“You had better let me alone; for you will return from the field without a victory, perhaps without honour.”
“No — the more difficulty the more glory, my lord; and, therefore, from this moment, be upon your guard; for I will certainly leave nothing undone to obtain so important a conquest.”
“And So be ruined by it — as Semele was in the arms of Jupiter. — No, no, child, think better, and let me alone — I give you fair warning.”
A violent Struggle ensued, for the cunning toad had contrived, while She sat by me, to pick my pocket of my handkerchief. — This was a challenge not to be refused, at least by any man not as cold as a Carmelite. — She ran — 1 pursued' — feigning herself to be out of breath She Suffered herself to be caught, indeed, and flung herself into my arms. — Affecting to be quite insenslble, She pasiively permitted
7s Jti 1 o 1 K X yj r
ted all the Sredoms which I was provoked to take, and only was careful tc — recover in the prettiest confusion imaginable; and with a “fie! my lord, how can you do So ^ Positively you Shall let me go now” — at the same time, Strewing not the least desire to be released from her confinement: She rather by her languisliing eyes, and Short Sighs, wished to remain in the Situation into which Sire had forced herself. — Few men, Wilmot, I believe, would have neglected Such an opportunity. — I don’t pretend to be a Stoic, when a fine girl comes in my way, and does all She can to put my blood into a full gallop. — However, .consideration — I won’t Say virtue — Stopped me just when I was on the point of gratifying the pasiion which Beil had kindled in my bosom— — let her go. — Yet, hang me, if I don’t think we were both Sorry afterwards — She looked inost confoundedly baulked, and I cursed myself for an idiot — for Supposing that a girl, who could fink so quietly into my arms, could posiibly have any thing
of the vestal about her. -- -- -- 1 actually wonder how
I came to be So Strangely, So unaccountably discreet.
— Perhaps Charlotte came athxvart my mind. -- -- -- -- -- --
Had it not been for her— — could not have resisted— —! how that idea fires me, and at the Same time makes me Slnidder! Slrould Sire be as
yielding as the girl. -- -- -- ’there’s madness in the
thought! — Wild and wanton as this girl is, who would have suspedsed her of going such lengths.? — Is there no chastity in women? Faith I lam a Sraid not, ' — I mull, however, give lord Sundon a friendly hint, lest he should be seriously taken in j — and yet he may, probably, thank me for my friendsliip with the point of his Sword. — Well then let him take his chance. — I want not courage; — but a man who will run the risk of killing his friend, or of being killed by him, about a girl who is of So combustible a constitution, that her virtue is every

^ w ^ ^
«
very moment In a dangerous way, must be extremely ridiculous, and almost deslitute of common-sense. • — Now, tell me. Jack, am I not in the right In being cautious"? — As I meet with Such frail. Such forward cteatures every day, who can blame me for entertaining unfavourable fuspicions against the whole Sex— — they are all alike — farewell lady Charlotte — Yet I will not give her up till I have tried
her -- By the way, I hear that She Is expected in
town at the beginning of the week. — — I Shall theai leave this place for Grofvenor scjuare.
m mmmmmm
LETTER XXVIII
From the same to the Same.
WILMOT, my dear Wilmot, I have Seen her; I have had her in my arms. — Delightful burden! — How different from the last female who Silled them! i^on’t know, however, whether llae loves me or not. — Then will be the trial. — A woman, not naturally loose, may easily resist the man to whom She is indifferent; but to refuse him whom, She fondly loves— — must be purity itself— — ~ to my tale.
The firsl morning after I came to town, I met this charming woman airing in Hyde park, attended only by her Servant. diana, when pursued
by Aftaeon, made not so charming a figure as Sire did on horscback. — How gracefully did She Sit! With what an easy negligence did she turn her loved

iy neck to Speak to me! How beautifully waved her auburn locks over her Snowy forehead, as the wind blew them backwards and forwards! And, let me add, the unexpected Sight of me, Wilmot, Iiad given an uncommon frefliness to her cheeks,
heightening her natural rosy bloom. -- -- Her little
black hat, ornamented only with a Seather of the same hue. Set off her fine compledtion; and while it modestly shaded her face, it increased the charms of it. — Our modern huntreises are too apt, from a propensity to look very Smart about their heads, to appear with unbecoming fierceness, and to put one out of countenance for them, by their unfeminine looks. I hate to see a woman’s hat turned up before; a woman may have a bolder appearance, by dresiing her front in that manner, but I never admired your
brazen beauties— — to proceed. -- -- Riding
on, without thinking, I believe, of the time or of the track we where in, we got into the lane which leads to Brompton. — — A dog leaping over a hedge, in that lane, frighted lady charlotte’s horse, who ran .away with her. I fiew after the Skittish beast, and jusl as he had thrown her off his back, received her,
in my g.rms. -- -- She was a little terrified, but soon
recovered, and, with a charming blush thanked me
for my afistance. -- -- She then attempted to walk,
though I had insisted upon her accepting of my coach (which I had ordered, like a lazy dog, to
follow me when I Sat out) to carry her home. -- --
She found herself, in a very little time, obliged to coinply vith my request, for having endeavoured to keep her seat, when the horse first galloped away, she had twisted her foot in the Stirrup and Sprained jt. — I lifted her into the coach, Seated myself by her and offered every kind of Service in my power : remembering what she had Said with regard to Eve, that the attentions of Such men ought to he ac lutywledged. — I conduced her into her own house,
and
and entreated her to let a Surgeon be immediately
Sent for to bleed her. -- She at first opposed that
proposal, but yielded to my repeated importunities.
-- .1 held her Snowy arm while the operation was
performed; and then, after having received more thanks, accompanied with more blushes, returned
home, fully intending to renew my vifits. 1 was
sufrcientl)’^ authorised to repeat them; I could not, indeed, have, decently, Staid away.
LETTER XXIX
From the same to the Same,
I WENT next day to lady Charlotte. ~~t ga every day, and am always received with Smiles and good-humour. She has a moll resined understanding, and is the moult entertaining creature I ever met with. — I make very long visits, without
Seeming to weary her with my company. -- -- -- She
has, ihdeed, asked me to Stay, and to return again,
■ — You may be Sure I was always compliant, -- -- --
I may as well confess the truth, I should have gone
to See her, if she had not asked me -- -- -- •! am
afraid, if She had forbidden me -- -- It is inconceivable
the impreseon which she has made upon
me -- -- an impresiion at which I am prodigiously
Surprised — 1 absolutely love her to dotage; and yet I cannot reconcile myself to the new emotions which I feel, whenever I am near her; — she perceives them no doubt — probably, everybody perceives them; — she does not, however, appear dish pleased with them, for Sire treats me with the greatest consideration — but with a delicacy and a modesty charming in the highest degree. * if she should
Da be
I V ^
I
j
j be quite free from those vices and follies so com
I jnon to the Sex, what happiness will She be capable
I f bestowing? — yetsuppoung her to be as perfeq
j as I wish her to be, am I Sure that I Shall meet
•with a return of that tenderness, which I feel rush i ing into my soul whenever I look upon her, or
listen to her, and which I conceal from her with the utmost difficulty. -- — — But have I not Said,
that her carriage is modestly encouraging, — -- -- -- --
b So I thought her behaviour to Evelyn, I remember j
yet I was mistaken, for She would not marry him... How amazingly powerful ate women in the arts I of deceiving! They fascinate us with their looks,
they Steal away our senses, and, in Short, do with us
I just what they please..... after all I have expe
'rienced, though, I must certainly be very weak,
indeed, to be imposed upon by any woman breathf I ing. However, I am so intoxicated with lady ghar r
lotte, that, dreading to be awaked from my dream f felicity, I dare not proceed even to try her— — •
am become quite ridiculous to myself. -- -- -- If yotj
should laugh at me, therefore, I Shall neither be ' altonifhed ^nor angry.
your’s as usiia;!,
W, -- -- -
P. S. I am also become acquainted with Mr
and Mrs. elliot. r -- They are very conversi,
hie people, and appear to be extremely attached to lady Charlotte — — as relations and as friends,
L E .D
lsaj u W U ts U K IN, 77
LETTER XXK
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs. stldmfiiis
SINCE riiy doming to town I have renewed my acquaintance with lord wobvsrn^we met by accident in Hyde park. — >1 had a Sail from my horse, which gave him an opportunity to asiisl me. — " — Happily my foot was only Sprained a little This event has occasioned a behaviour in lord Woburn, which begins to grow rather puzzling. — How sincerely do I wisli you wa.? with me, that you might from your penetration, inform me what I ought to think of his particular asiiduities.* — I was, you know, very much concerned to find it necestary to leave Mr, elliot’s, and Slrould not have so readily consented to a Separation from my good friends had I not flattered myself at the time, that I Should he favoured with a great deal of your amiable Society. -- -- 1 did not then know that poor Mrs. Scot
would have had so melancholy a reason to desire you to come to her— — — could not, I am sensible, refuse to comply with her earnest request, as a sistef and as a friend } but your compliance with that request, has exceedingly distrested me— — presence, your advice would be, at this jundlure, q infinite Service to me. — — It is neither agreeable ta me, nor sase for me, I think, to live alone j and yet ‘the danger of meeting with an improper companion terrifies me— — always abhorred those peo« pie, who are called Humble Friends, and who generally behave with an abject Servility, disgusting beyond expression— — — I chuse to converse with persons more upon an equality in every res
D 3 pest 5
, H I S T O R Y O F
pet j -- -- but where Shall I find Such, who wili
care to live with me, or whom I Should wish to admit upon a very intimate footing? I have found, indeed, few capable of being real friends; and Situated as I am, I think mys'tlf too much expo sed to the visits of lord Woburn, which are conduced with too much propriety to be prohibited,
but which not a little preplex me. -- -- -- -- His con.
versation leads to nothing decisive; and, yet, from the uncommon and excesiive concern which he discovered for my accident, and from his continued
attentions ever Since. -- -- Do not, my dear Mrs. Blo
raer, entertain an opinion of me, which I deserve
not. -- -- -1 think, I hope I am not indelicate in my \
txperlations — -- -- -- but that is not a proper word.
Why Should I expect?? -- -- -- -- yet, my dear friend,
were I to See a man So constantly ashduous about any of my acquaintance, I Should, certainly, be apt to imagine that he bad a particular design.
-- -- If lord Woburn has a particular design in his
behaviour to me, why Should he not inform me of it? But why Slrould I suppose he has any design at all.? — May not a man visit a woman osten, merely to amuse himself.? — Still — Still a man who is perpetually with you at home, and who always follows you abroad, acts in a very Singular manner. — He must Surely be much pleased with your company.' — Well— — — I will suppose he ihces to converse with me, better than with any other woman, at least on these days I See him. i - — But he comes every day; he Stays all the day 1 — and discovers Such an extreme desire to pleasi me, and to attract my attention, and is So insinuating with his manners, that I don’t know what
to make of him. -- -- -- ^perhaps he is only diverting
himself all this time, with observing the perplexity into which his behaviour frequently throws me. > — I Strive to conceal my embanastments as much as I
can.
L U K U W U j5 U K IN. 79
can but they certairily cannot escape the eye of a difcernlng man, always rive ted on me. I could send you a thoufanid particulars relating to his carriage to me, by which yon would be enabled to form a clear judginent concerning them; but I thinki fhoiiw employ myfeif foohshly, by committing to paper occurences which ought not to be remembered by me, — Mr. and Mrs. Elliot have met lord Woburn several times here. — They give him fre ^‘ ^iient Invitations to their house, and make him of our parties y yet they say nothing more of him to me, than that he Is an amiable man. — — Possibly they may be more explicit in their letters to you.
- — I wish you was with me.
N
;
L E T T E B. XXXI
From the Same to the Same.
AS I cannot have So immediate an answer asc wisli from my dear Mrs. Blooriier, I continue to talk on, and upon the Same Subject.
We were at the opera t’other night. — Mrs. Elliot and I went by ourselves! — “— It was a Sudden thought of her’s .• I had intended to Stay at home that evening; lord Woburn, therefore, was ignorant of our’
motions. -- -- He Staid with me till!' went to dress
before dinner; Mrs. Elliot did not Start her opera scheme till after his departure.
Scarce were we Seated, when Sir William ashtonc came in. — Mrs. Elliot, who thinks better of him, -, you know, than of many young men of fashion,
made room for him between us. -- -- -- -- -1 could not
see the propriety of Such a Step; but ss I had not,,
D 4, myfeif,.
iiiolwjxivyr
inyfelf, invited him to come so near me, I had no right to drive him from her j however I said nothing to induce him to suppose, that I was pleased with his company.
Turning my head, on a Sudden, I Saw lord Woburn close behind us, Staring earnestly at me, and
too intent with his eyes to Speak. -- -1 believe I
looked a little foolisli, on being thus Surprised, --! felt my Sace glow; but to prevent his thinking; me particular, I Spoke to him immediately, with
my usual freedom -- -- He Seemed to recover himself,
and asked me, though, very gravely, if I had designed to be at the opera, when he left me in the
morning. -- -- 1 answered in the negative; adding,
that Mrs. Elliot Sent to me Soon after his departure;
• and that, not being engaged, I readily attended her.
Smiles brightened up his countenance immediately — He Sat down by me, and we entered into as much conversation as we could, without rendering our taste disputable, by not listening to Zaphanini. — Sir William took no Small pains to come in for his Share of chat, but my lord Seemed desirous, I thought, to exclude him. — When the coach was drawn up the former offered his hand to me — My lord instantly seizing it before I knew well what to do, conducted me to the carriage; then asking Mrs. Elliot if She had room, and would Set him down. Stepped in after us. — Our two houses you know, are not far distant from each other.
When Mrs. Elliot went into her house, he sah tome, “will you indulge me, lady Charlotte, for one half hour ?” And will you believe me when I tell you, my friend, that 1 did not know what to
say — I actually hesitated a moment. -- - “Is it too
great a favour to ask” ” my lord, with a
more impatient tone; -- -- “will you only tell me,
then, how long you have known Sir William ash,
, “have
jns. W W ^
** i have known him a great whist, ” fd|inedl| as the friend of Mr. Elliot.”
“Is he nothing more ?” said he, with a hind m forced Smile ifmk dnd Mrs'. Elliot are hst friends they, no doubt, fgcommend him Strongly.”
“I confefsi^ replied I, smiling dgain, - “I Shotild hevef think of their recommending him to me Slj William has given me nof reason to beliete, that Such t proceeding wotsld be agreeable to him.”
“If Such a proceeding was agreedbst tof hitr then, ” answered he, eagerly, it wotsid be so yoti ?”
“I do niot say So, my lord.” *«^
No, inadarti, ^’ replied he, clapping his h^nd iip o bn his forehead, and walking hastily from nrie, yoti don’t, indeed, fdy so^but dear lady Charlotte.’^ fiddcd he, Sitting down again, and taking iiiy Hand, exctise me — — I am afraid I aiti impertinently tiotis; but, if you remember, you Was so oblige Ing as to tell me, in what esteetti you held poof Evelyn, before i^(hesitating)~before I had beesi so long favoured with your confidence— — I not hope, then, that yoli will jtsst give ffie yotif opinion of Sir William ?”
“Since you so earnestly desire my opinion of Sr William, my lord, 1 will tell yoti, that, sroisi flies favotirable Sentiffients which Mr. and Mrs. Elliot have long entertained about hifu, and from his ge * fieral good character, I suppose hirti Worthy of g, e fieral approbation } btst as I had rtever expected to be questioned Concerning him, J fleter gav^ lityself leisure to refiedl seriously abosit hi'm.^’
“He h as not theri touched yotir heart i”
“No, indeed, tny lord, ^’' Said I, laughings Mel I am Sorry you suppose my heart So eafiiy affected with every rtian who comes in my way.”
“You are theft not easily to be fbased, ” replied he, tvith a very Serious air.
D 5 y idos’f
Bz HISTORY OP
I don’t know' — But, indeed, I have not considered Subjects of this kind with attention enough, to give Such particular answers as you Seem to require.” — (I ooking at my watch.)
He took the hint, but rose with reluctance- -- --
holding my hand, “Shall you be alone tomorrow about twelve .?” Said he,
“I believe I Shall.”
He prested my hand to his bosom, and left me.;
-- -- Before he reached the dor he came back. — i
Can you, lady Charlotte, forgive all this imper ’ tinence ?”
“I can, ” replied I,, Still Smiling. he bowed, i
and quitted the room.
He came the next day before the appointed hour. — I was drawing. — He sat down by me; leaned | over me, praised my performance in general, | hut, very judiciously, pointed out two or three
faults, which I mended immediately. -- -- -- He said
Something Softly to himself, while he looked on me,
» — Then thanking me aloud for doing him the honour to Subscribe So readily to his opinion j he ask «d me, if I had Seen Sir William?
** What! Since last night, ” Said I, with an accent of Surprise, “how could you think So ?” -- --
Considering, however, that all disguises are mean,
I added immediately, “hut he called here about a quarter of an hour ago.”
“And you did not See him '.?”
“No — I don’t let in people when I am engaged. — didn’t you desire I would be alone ?”
“I did, ” Said he, with his eyes Sparkling with pleasure, while he catched my hand, and prested rt to his lips, “I did, and I am charmed with your consideration for me.”
I withdrew my hand in much confusion, thinking that I had Said Something very improper; — and my confusion was increased, when, on looking
un.
, JL U K LW U ts U K JN. 03
up, I Saw his eyes fixed upon my face, in a manner I cannot describe. — — He perceived my embarrassment immediately, and gave me time to recover. -- I again applied to my drawing. — Ween
tered into Something like a conversation upon general Sabjedts; yet he" appeared, frequently, ’ absent.. confused J rose from his Seat, Sat down, and Seemed to be' in great agitation one nftinute; the next he folded his arms. Sighed and looked the picture of despair. — — He often opened his mouth to * Speak, and as often closed it again— — last a vio r' lent rap at the door roused him.' — ihe Started from * his chair, and left me abruptly. — ^ — Now, my dear ’ Mrs. Blomeri is not this behaviour rather particu' iar? Or do I only fancy so.? — i^sometimes I diftrust myself.~pray send me your opinion.; -
VV'V^/VV'VVVV” V'V\"’V’V''N'’^.*''VVV
L E tcf E xxxiir
Lord W o B URN to Mr. WI L M O T." ■
S H A L L certainly betray myself j — I cannot '
- possibly hold it much longer. -- She grows
upon me every hour. — — Never was there a creature So perfectly amiable.~i Shall discover my Sen' ' in Spite of all my endeavours to conceal them, and be routed horse and foot. — You cannot imagine how cursed 'ridiculous I have made myfeif. — — I have been jealous alsb, jealous of a man whom I never Saw with her but once, and then by mere accident— — charmingly has She conduced herselst with what propriety, with what
condescension did She treat me Surely She musl
have found out my weakness, and, from mere pity,
behaves ■
“behaves to ttie with a gentleness, not far femtwed from tenderness— — am really Sometimes ready to persuade myself that She loves me; — that She prefers me to every other man, at present, is certain j but how long her partiality for me may hold, is a mother point. — Were I thoroughly astured of being beloved by her, I would try her immediately. — — If She comes off with honour how exquisite will b my felicity I
I have been just interrupted by a meslage from mf
brother Ned. -- -- -- He was not expected home this
half year j but love has, also, made a revolution in his mind. — It Seems he met with the earl and countess of D — -- -- -- -- — at Aix, and was so charmed
with lady louisa, the eldest daughter, that a ’ marriage was Soon concluded. — I am going. dire6l» ly to welcome him and my new slster,
# ^ ^
T am returned home, aster having been recefr* ed with all that warmth of friendship, so natural to him. — I found the bride, indeed, a compteai beauty; — features more regularly handsome, a complexion more finely animated, I never, I think, beheld. — She is tall, and has more of what the French express by the word embonpoint, than one commonly sees in a modern fine lady, V ith her laced up
waist -- -- Such waists are, to me, horrible and detestable.
-- -- -- Yet with all this luxuriance of beauty,
there is Something in her look and behaviour which displeases me — - — — — 1 would have a woman allure you, insensibly;; would not have her openly invite you. — I hope I have mistaken she expres (ions in lady louisa’s eyes — doubly hope So for ned’s Sake, who is one of the sincerest honest fellows in Great Britain, and who loves her passionately enough to content a woman of the least delicacy. — But what have I to do with their affairs? Let me mind my own. — Lady Charlotte is made of difjerent
mater|alsj.
*•
t
LORD W w e u K
ffiaterials, or there b no faith at all to he placed m the cotmtenance of a woman — I do not, however, depend Upon her looks alone j — — the modesty, the propriety ofher whole Carriage, and the manner in which She Spends her time, assure me, that Sh cannot resemble lady louisa,
V
LETTER xxxm.
4
Lady Ch arlotte mordefi, to Mrs. Blomeis^
YOU have opened nsy ey^s, tny dear friend. ^ i blush, though alone, to think how I may have exposed myseif ^throogh liiere inadvertence Yet you are a teaming creature to tell me, that because I wish to have lord Woburn particular, I really fancy he isso. — Now, my dear Mrs. Blomer, lay your hand upon your heart, and answef nie Sincerely, is he not particular j or am 1 a downright visionary If I thought I could postlbly be mistaken about the' particularity of his carriage to me, I would thanfe you for undeceiving me. — ^ — I affi honeit enough to inform you, that his fancied partiality for me, gives me a satisfauion which I never felt beforey from the behaviour of any of his Sex— — — told me yesterday, of the arrival of his brother and lister from Aix.
-- -- -- “My brother is married to lady louisa, and'
Ihe is a very fine woman, but wants lady cnar lotte’s delicacy and rettnuea~ ~ ^a. am afraid I looked exceedingly Satisfied with this compliment, Ser he caught my hand and hided it. ^i bluslied, and drevy it Sromi him. — He changed Countenance immediately J looked pi(jned, disappointed,, and out of hiw
tnouty
so H 1 5 1 o K it va r
mour. -- -.... I Smiled, and Said, “Nay, now, my
lord, you are capricious j were you not just now commending me for my discretion? And was not your commendation Sufficient of itself to induce me to keep it up?”
“Charming Greature 1” replied he, seizing my hand again.
Mrs. Elliot, at that moment, came in, and alkcd me to go with her to make Some morning visits,
I consented immediately. — “Had you been only going to take an airing in Hyde park, ” Said my lord,
I would have asked to be of your party, merely for the sake of your conversation; sot' though the Park is pleasant for a place So near town, I always love to be farther out of the Smoke of Condon and have no idea ios either capering or rolling along one Short road Smothered with dust in dry weather, and
in danger of being every minute dismounted by the
crowds which perpetually pafs backwards andfor -- wards; certainly one has very little air or exercise in those excursions.”
Mrs. Elliot laughed, and told him, ' ‘ he was very Severe. -- -- When we were in the coa#hvy
Selves, She desired to know with the utmost ffiendli nefs, my Serious thoughts about lord Woburn i .and to be informed, whether he had given me reason to believe that he had any design in his frequent visitsi I thanked her for giving me an opportunity of fpieak ing upon a subjeq; which began to grow, I freely confessed interesting to me, and upon which L very much wished to have her opinion“
“opinion is, ” replied shc “that if you actually suspedt him of having an inclination to Spend the remainder of his life with you; and if you like no manfo well, you had better accept of him.”
“Before he offers himself?” Said I, interrupting her.
Ah I
L U K U WOBURN. 87
Ah! my good friend, ” answered fly hastily ** reply is a Sufficient explanation of your Senti“ “
I felt my face glow — She Saw my confusion, and kindly relieved me. — “don’t be uneasy, ” added She, “I believe lord Woburn has a very .good character that is, I never heard him accused of keeping a mish tress, or of running into the fashionable. follies to which but too many young men of rank are Strongly addicted— — perfection, my dear lady Charlotte, is not to be looked for. — Lord Woburn is a man of sense; he is. a man of iiumanity; he, therefore, will not, I may venturh to aver, use the woman ill who is intimately connected with him, while She behaves with discretion. — Such a woman he will, undoubtedly, find in you, ”
I thanked your dear filter, my amiable friendy. for her favourable opinion of me. — I believe, I may honestly confess that I thanked her also in my heart, for Speaking So warmly in lord woburn’s behalf.
Flattered as I was by what Sire had Said of him,. I had courage to remind her of his affair with Mrs. Mead — an affair which he, had, indeed, represented to me to hit own advantage; but how' far that representation isto be credited — Well— — will think of it in the most charitable light.
“You cannot but be sensible, ” replied’ She, “of the extreme folly of women in general; — you cannot but know, that they are more openly difsolute, than they were in former days; and I am afraid there are few men, either able or willing to refisi
the advances which are made to them, Asto lord;
Woburn, I am inclined to think, from what you, have related about the ladies at the castle; that he has thoroughly repented of his behaviour, during his
Stay at it. -- However no man is without
failings, as I Said before; one has, therefore, no jhing to do, but to choose him who has the fewesl.”
Now
Now I must wait patiently (is I en) till hf (peaks.a Celebrated author, Soihewlxere, Sdys^ “that a lover of delicacy will not make his addres' fes to a lady till he is Sure that She wisheig for a de * claration.’^ ““I approve of these rehned (ertfiments sn a lover j but yet I think I Should be Sorry so difco« tef in myseff, any eagerness to be adc should certainly be Still more hurt, to have that eil ’ gernefs detected by lord Woburn. rftivitwara> We musi therefore, take things as they happen to fall out. ™'
I know I feel most exceedingly awkward about tb<sf affair at present. — wish I tftay not betray ntyfelf..
L E i
%
f
JU VJ JU oy
LETTER XXXIV
Lord Woburn to Mr, Wilmot,
Ned has engaged me upon So many parties with him and his wife Since his arrival, that I have not had leisure to Spend So much time as I could have wished with my charming Charlotte. — She improves upon me, I think, every hour. — A kind of blushing timidity now Seizes her whenever I approach her, which renders her infinitely lovely— — a contrast is She to lady louisa, a vain, wanton Hoyden? I am Surprised that Ned did not See her character, and detest it. — Yet She might have perhaps, concealed her natural disposition before marriage, and has thrown off the mask now it is too late for him to retreat— — ■ fellow! he has certainly been taken in; and will, 1 fear, repent or his matrimonial connexion ere long. — But as I have mentioned the word Hoyden, let me tell you that the Saucy flirt Bell Forbes, Is gone off with colonel Tamper, who though he has been married these ten years, has ruined more girls than I can at present, reckon up yet in my bumble opinion, he has himself been ruined by Such little devils as these— — is not naturally vicious j he is good nafured, and might have lived with his wife upon as good terms as men generally do, if he could have kept the women at a tolerable distance; but with his attradtions how could he prevent their approaches? — Nay, I have Seen the douceurs of an old ugly fellow, blasted with infamy, and battered with his debaucheries, encouraged. — Fie! fie! upon it — let me think no more of Such Scandalous proceeding, lest I Sliold, in the hurry of resentment, rank my Charlotte among
the
90 HISTORY O F
the forward and sliaraeless females of the age. —
My Charlotte! — Yes, i will call her my Charlotte, Jack, till 1 see reason to retradt that appellation. — However, if She is chaste, She is, -1 believe, almost the only young and handsome woman who is So. — ^
I have no opinion at all of her attendant. — How came you to know her, you will Say.? — Vs I have been So much at the house lately, She has had many opportunities to throw herself into my way,
and has not overlooked them. -- -- -- -- Mrs. Daw Son
is not a disagreeable figure; She has a demureness in her appearance, which lady Charlotte takes so? real Sandtity. — I, hope She is deceived; and yet if She is, I pity her, for to lie at the mercy of a cant ing hypocrite is the devil. — It is actually very dangerous for a fine young creature, like Charlotte, to
be in the power of Such ^ pious Sycophant, -- -- -- -
She may sell her, for aught I know, to the highest bidder. -- -- whythen may not I put in for the
purchase.?.? -- — I love her too Sincerely to deceive her. -- -1 Should not gratify my pasiion for
her, were I to postess her by Such unwarrantable
measures. -- -- Never did I yet, J Swear by all that’s
dear to me, never did I seduce an innocent heart — never did I take an advantage of a woman’s weakness-
-- -- Should, therefore, find no joy in charlotte’s
arms, unless She cheerfully admitted me to them;
and then -- -- O Show cordially Should I despise and!
hate her for yielding! -- Sometimes I think that I
will tell lady Charlotte, that dawson is a good for nothing hustey. -- How came you to know her demerits.? -- -- -- -- -1 weighed her, and found her wanting..
-- -- “But why need you have troubled yourself about
her.? posiibly if you had not tempted her, Sire
might have been virtuous.” -- -- 1 will not say anything
more about her, but make the belt of my way wkh — the idol of my heart.
L E T
L O R D W O B U R N. 91
f
LETTER XXXV
Lady Charlotte M 0 r d e n to
Mrs. Blomer.
My dear, dear friend, you must not be in Such 3 hurry.' -- -- -- -- -- You say, that you Shall not be Satisfied
till lord Woburn .makes a regular declarati ' on; and I can asture you, that you will not have
that Satisfaction a great while. -- 1 See no Signs of
such a declaration; yet he is as ashduous as ever, nay, more So. -- -- He was absent for a few days, after
Mr. woburn’s arrival in England j but he has
since Scarce ever left me he omits nothing which.
will, he thinks, give me any pleasure. -- He has, I
find, Somehow ingratiated himself with dawson. -- -
She was rather impertinently free both with her encomiums upon him, and her remarks, t’other day j I Silenced her presently, for I never choose to make
my Servants my confidants -- -1 was Sorry dawsoii
obliged me to reprimand her So Sharply, as I have a regard for her, and believe her to be faithful 5 she has certainly more sense than many women, in her Station, are postested of; yet while, lord Woburn keeps me in siispence, it' b not necestary for me I think to be explicit with her upon Such a Sub
je£l. -- But how can I talk thus? -- mydisappro
bation of dawson’s behaviour has Surely turned my
head a little. -- Why sliou.ld I imagine that my lord
ever entertained Such a desigh. he is almost continually
with me, ’tis true, and not only follows me
every
y.. .J... w V.
everywhere abroad, but distinguisires me from cve * Ty other woman; and I am foolish enough to be pleased with, a partiality which may, perhaps, in the end occasion a great deal of Scandal.
Mr. and Mrs. Elliot begin to be difpleased with lord Woburn j their displeasure gives me a great deal of pain— — — Elliot hinted Something t’^othef day, about a categorical answer j and your good sister advised me to flirt a little with Sir William asliton, or any other man, by way of forcing hiss lordsliip to declare himself.
Forgive me, my dear Mrs, Blomer, for Saying, that I detesled from my heart such advice, though it came from your own stsler. — I cannot descend Co very low, as to angle for a husband in that shabby manner. — I have also entreated Mr. Elliot not to take the least notice of me to my lord. If they will not listen to me, I must quit them, him, and ail the world. — I cannot be brought to Subscribe to such indelicate management. — What an opinion must a nun, have of the woman, who can have recourse to so poor an artifice, for the accomplishment ofher wishes.? — No — my dear Mrs. Blomer, never will I do anything to render myfeif unworthy of lord woburn’s esteem— — I am in his favour or not, I will endeavour to merit his approbation. — He is, I am afraid — I may venture to say So to you — the only man whom I desire to please; though I would wish to have the whole world approve of my ccn»
du£l if possible- -- lord is coming up — I must
conceal thisjetter> -- There is no reason that he
Should See he is preferred to everybody, till he makes it necestary for me to acknowiedge my Sentiments
concerning him. -- -- He knows them already, 1 fear,
but too V ell, from a thousand little inadvertencies, which, in Spite of all my circumspedlon, frequently excape me.
Iir
LORD W O U K N.
In C O N T j N U a T ION.
I took up drawing when he came in. How Swiftly the moments flew I — — Two whole hours pasted unperceived away, in thg moil delightful conyerfati on.'. — I might have, perhaps, sat talking with him till now, had not Dawson appeared, and asked me if I chose to dress before dinner— — blushed, and looked at my watch.. My lord frowned, and she instantly disappeared. I rosc however « he caught my handj “You must not leave me, ” cried he, “beauty, like your’s, wants no addition, ”
“No flattery, my lord, ” said I — in a little confusion.
“I .cannot flatter you, my lady j but if truth offends your modesty, my tongue shall be Silent— — my eyes will Speak, and my heart’s language will be
responsiyp to theirs.” — putting my hand to it. --
I Struggled to draw it back, telling him, at the Same time, that I mnft wish him a good morning.
“Will nothing that I can Say, ” replied he, with a look inexpresflbly engaging, “prevail on you to
give me leave to Stay Jand dine with you to day ^
or will you not, at least permit me to return hither immediately, after I have taken my Solitary meal?”
Shall I tell you, my dear, that I knew not what answer to make to his request— — his voice, and his attitude were So tenderly Supplicating that I — hesitated — Recolleding, at last, that he might perhaps, be on the point of afldng the question, the so long delayed — the folongexpedled queftipn by you and your friends, I opened my mouth — I consented to his entreaty, and instantly closed it again, fearful of having been guilty of an indiscretion,
He
He Saw my embarrastment and gently clapping
his hand upon my mouth -- -- -- -- -- -- -• “Hold, ” cried
he, with an enchanting Smile, “you Shall Say nothing to me that you do not thoroughly approve of. — Be Silent; though nobody ever Spoke So well — ■ and susser me to be Ihund here when you return from
m
your dresiing room.”
I did as he desired; I hurried from him; but I did not, you may imagine, Stay long at my toilette j though I thought Dawson most intolerably tedious,
and uncommonly awkward about me. -- -- -- -- -- She actually
Seemed to be in as great an agitation of Spirits ai,
myself, was j -- -- -- posiibly, however, my own
emotions made me believe foto apologise for them.
-- -- -1 wished to look to the utmost advantage -- -- -- -
yet I certainly did not allow myfeif time to put on my things in an advantageous manner. — By good luck however, they did as well as ifi.had more Studied the arrangement of them — ^ — The flattering Woburn flew to meet me at my return to the drawing-room — — “Before you left me, ” said he, “I thought you could not by any art wdiatever, make an alteration in ycur dress for the better; but you certainly appear to me, at this moment, with new attradfions.”
I Smiled, like a Simpleton, as if I was pleased;; told him, that Sewer compliments, and more conversation, would be agreeable to me.
“I Stand corrected, lady Charlotte” Said he, “It is but just that I Slrould exert all my powers to entertain you in return, for the exquisite falisfac tion you have given me today.”
We sat down to dinner. -- -- -- -1 was far from being
at ease; I, therefore, did the honours of my table rather awkwardly. He perceived my confusion, and asiisted me, with a gallantry so refined, so highly pleasing, that I was almost brought by it into
humour with myself. -- -- -- One part of his carriage
however.
however, did not meet with my approbation. -- -- -- -- -
He prested me exceedingly, to drink more wine than I chcse. — You well know that I never go beyond two glasses. -- -- 1 observed, that he drank but little
himself. He might have no particular meaning in this behaviour; he Seemed I thought, much
pleased when I resisted his importunities; -- -- not
So well Satisfied with me, did he appear when I three or four times withdrew from his arms, upon his pressing me to his bosom, after Some lively panegyric on my person, dress, or conversation. — Sometimes, indeed, I fancied, that by doing foi had prevented him from delivering himself upon the expected Subject;; after having long waited for ihe moment of declaration, I began to See that I had been extremely to blame for having sussered myself to be treated with So much freedom, by a man V ho never entertained a Serious thought about me. — And, I will confess to you, my friend, that I was
greatly hurt at my disappointment. -- -- ^sill more
was I pained, at being So deceived. — — However, though I had possibly gone too far, it was, by. no
means, too late to retreat. -- 1, therefore, collected
all my Scattered Spirits, and very gravely told him, I had an engagement with a lady that evening, which I could not put by. — Before he was prepared to oppese me, I touched my bell, and ordered my chair.
He Started, looked disconcerted, and asked me, “if I could not, possibly, break my appointment.” — rfinding me inflexible, he Sighed, kisfed my hand In Spite of all my opposition, and left me.
Thus you See, my good Mrs. Blomer, all our ex peslations are vanished. — Lord Woburn has been Sufficiently tried; he has had fair opportunities, and I am now certain, he never had any design but to
amuse himself with me. -- -- -- -- ’tis all over — I do
not like to be trifled with j — I have, therefore,
Itridtiy
strictly charged my people to deny me, if he comes again. — ^ — Most probably he will not give
himself jhe trouble to make me another visit
How fortunately did I prevail on Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, not to proceed ia the very hasty niannerthey had intended! — TS hey would have been only thought ridiculous, but I must have been laughed at cverj where. — For once let me applaud my own discretion— — have little, very little elfe to value myfeif upon at prestnt.
Your sincerest friend, Charlotte mokdenu
I
I
I
.A. \ x’ \ %.\ .M. • \ \
LETTER XXXVI |
I
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
i
I AM quite intoxicated with love and joy' '
dear creature is everything the heart of man can wish— — will" — She Shall be mine — for ever. I am Sure I have made a progress in her gentle bosom— — and judge t |
I went a Sew mornings ago, and Sound her, as ■ have lately Sound her, drawing landscapes, which Sire executes in a fine taste; — a good quiet employ I ment to keep her out of misthief. — We are all Jack, both men and women, apt to feel the devil Stir j ring within us now and then; and we can only
drive him out by some kind of business. — — Tb
ruin
1
LORD WOBURN. 97
min of half the women in England may be justly imputed to idleness. — When they can neither amuse nor employ themselves, they are always ready to run.
into mischief. ^ besides, when the female mind is.
quite inasive, it generally receives wrong impres
fions. -- How many idle girls have I Seen throwing
themselves into a great chair, while Such expresiions
as these came languidly from their lips, “ld!!
don’t know what in the. world, to do with myself.” — Such girls hurry from place, to place, merely ta kill time, and put wicked thoughts out of their heads, as they wilt tell you j but I may venture to affirm, that they render themselves the most contemptible creatures in the universe by So doing. — —. Not in So ridiculous a. manner does my lovely Charlotte aft; never did I See her idle; her books, her drawing, her music, her needle, by turns employ her,. and keep her from yielding too much to a charming tenderness of heart, of which She is, I perceive, with transport, posielted.
She received me with an unusual fostness in her behaviour, and with a Sort of confusion, which discovered more sensibility, than I had ever observed
in her before. -- We Soon, however, entered into a
conversation, in which Sire, bore her part with a delicacy and Spirit which charmed me, while 1 hung over her, like milton’s Adam, enamoured! — While I was So engaged, the busy dawson, impertinently, aflred her, if Sire chose to dress— — could not bear to part with her — I detained her hand, while my eyes and my tongue told her a thousand tender truths — which She, however, with the sweetest consusion, collect flattering ones. — I would fain have kept her — She would not Stay — I begged her to let me dine with her— — appeared quite surprised at my request -- -- She paused -- -- She blushed, and looked so
delightfully disconcerted, that I, fearful of being denied the blesiing I implored, ventured to put my hand
E noon
upon her delicious lips; telling her, that She Should find me where she left me, at her return from her toilette. — She was not long absent' -- -- -- I hate a woman
who Spends the time which Should be devoted to her lover in tiffing herself out before the glass — What a trifling pleasure! — A woman of this Stamp,
■ plainly Shows that She loves her own dear person better than him.
When lady Charlotte retired, I told her that I did not believe^she. could make any addition to her beauty
• dress— — was mistaken -- -- -- -- She came to me ■
with only a Slight alteration in her drapery; but that alteration had So happy an esfeft, and made her appear in a So much more advantageous light, that I
could have devoured her. -- -- -- Her emotions increased
— She endeavoured to acquit herself with her usual ease r but She sailed, from an over anxiousness to
excel. -- -- -- 1 pitied her, and did everything in njy
power to relieve her, to affist her, to entertain her as much as She had entertained, me.rr — — To double my satisfaction. Sire is temperate beyond myexpeftatt ons. — — I could not, with all my rhetoric, make her
take a third glass. — -- -- What a chaira is there in the
Sobriety and chastity of a fine wcmani — -- -- -- -- -- How
often have I been amazed, at men being able to en duredhe least tendency tovrards a pasiion for strong
liquors in their mistrestes -- -- Awoman in a State of
intoxication, is to me a nauseous and loathsome sight. — T — The very breath of such a woman is almost pestilential, and not to be endured — yet how frequently do the finest wmmen in the kingdom render themselves disgusting by their advances to ebriety!! do not always, indeed, wonder to See women trying to plunge themselves into.oblivion, by their bacchanalian proceedings; but I am extremely astoniflred, w'heneverl See men encouraging them to pursue pleasures, ?/hich mult not only very soon Spoil
their
LOUD WOBURN. g,
their beauty, but break their constitutions, and deprive them of their most alluring charms, their modesty and their delicacy; charms which can alone render them attractive, in the eyes of a man of the
least taste and refinement. -- -- Nor is a pasiion for
strong liquors confined to the prostituted part of the fair fes; women who have been very regularly and Soberly c'ducated, have indulged themselves in drinking to an unpardonable excess. -- -- 1 was once extremely
well acquainted with a young and very Sine woman, of great distinction, married to a man who
adored her. -- -- 1 have heard this woman, when at
table with her, say to the butler, in a v/hisper, “whenever I call for vine and water, be Sure to give me all wine.” As herorder vas punctually complied wilh, She commonly Swallowed a bottle of Strong old Mountain or Madeira before the cloth was removed, her usual beverage being filled out in
•half pint glasses. another lady I know, not less
young and pretty — but unmarried, and like to remain So, Vv'ho is exceedingly careful to have her brandy and water made of a comfortable Strength, for the benefit of her poor nm vet, which, however, grew weaker and weaker, in Spite of all her endeavours to brace them. -- But to return to lady Charlotte. — Her dinner, and the Small quantity of wine which ihe swauewed, decently exhilarated her, — She became lets timid, and entered more cheerfully into conversation with me, than She had ever done j a conversation, which So much increased the charms, of her person and behaviour, that! was inlensibly led to be more free than usual: I therefore gradually th row off a great part of the refiraint 1 had been binder in her company, and began to give a loose to the transports which her beauty had inspired. — 1 Said a thousand vvhimsical things, all tending to the Same point. I hung over her, full of admiraion, and cncc
E 3 ventured
ioo XI X Q X v r XN. X X
x’entured to touch her Snowy neck behind with my
lips. -- ^she Started from me — -- -- -- - I pursued her,
and obtained my pardon. — I then caught her in my arms, to thank her — — New offences produced new apologies, which were, after some demurring, accepted
-- -- -1 grew at lasl too presuming- -- -- -- was
tempted to press her to my bosom— — “now, my lord, you are rude” ” the blushing, Struggling angel. — I turned from her, fupposing her to be af fedtedly angry, and Swore that nobody but the moult consummate prude in nature could take offence at iuch innocent freedoms, adding, that I could not have believed lady Charlotte had so weak an under itanding.
This Speech touched her. — She was Serious; She was Sorry for having been obliged to chide me— — again lifted m.p. her charming eyes, and smiled a i reconciliation— — with the tenderness which languished in them, I Seized her once more, ' and printed a thousand ardent kistes on her lovely [ face. — She now became absolutely incensed, but in j censed in so bewitching a manner, that I adored | her— — of flying into a fury (by So doing. She ■ would have thrown the finesi Set of features in the world into a horrid disorder) She, Suddenly, appeared colledfed within herself, and with great coolness and gravity, saying. She had an engagement that evening, rose and pulled her bell, before I was in the least aware’of her intentions.' — Ideated on her, how = for her discretion; it has fixed me, immutably, her’s; though I confess I was So much surprised at So unexpedled a change, for She had but just Seemed to reprove me reludtantly, that I Suffered her to order her chair, with only making a Single remonstrance against it.; that remonstrance pr ved ineffedtual, anci 1 actually believe I appeared a dupe of my own ' designs. — Yet charmed to find her ail that my eager
heart
jlu 1.^ 1 T X ^ fi W U
heart desired, I returned again the next morning; to my astonisliment, I was difmissed from the door!
— In plain English, She was denied; — half a crown Slipped into the porter’s hand, drew the truth out of his mouth. — pleased and angry, at the Same time, at this prohibition, I followed her in public, only to Show my indifference; my indifference hurt her. — A few nights ago She turned as pale as death at the play, on my coming into the next box to her, without taking, notice of her. — Her anxiety. Strongly painted In her countenance, delighted me, and made me uneasy. — By that anxiety, I was thoroughly assured of her love, and yet I was Sorry to See her Suffer on my account. — My resentment Subsided in a moment — I hastened to the box in which ihe Sat;
I came In behind her, and while 1 asked her, in a whisper. If She was not well, tenderly pjefled her Snowy white hand.
She Started— — and" hastily drew her hand ' back — but made no reply.
I was not at all displeased with this appearance ol^.,,., resentment, in consequence' of a 'freedonai W '
ought not, indeed, to have been taken. Situated as we were • — 'As I never had made an honourable proposal, She might, very justly, have concluded, that I never intended it. — — However,! had Some reason,
I think, to believe, after what had pasted, that if She really loved me, She would have forgiven me. —
— not ail my attentions about her, my Solicitude to give her pleaslire, could prevail on her to enter into conversation with me
She kept up this reserve all the evening; andfi when I offered my hand to conduu her to her coach, gave it to another gentleman, who happened to be near her. — I asredted to take no notice of her altered behaviour — for I really thought that Sire locked as if she behaved in that manner, more out of pru~
E denes
( 1 1
I
dence than inclination; — I, therefore, honoured her for her cool deportment j yctit will be absolutely necestary for me, to lure her back to love and, i tenderness — I have not yet half done with her. — v/hen once a woman truly loves — a trifling difference wili not cure her of her paflicn. I
your’s as usual,
w —.. :
!
i
I
i
le
L E T T E R XXXVII
Lady Charlotte Morden, to Mrs. Blomer;
I'
i,
__ i
complain of ray long Silence, my good | j friend, and indeed I have so little to Say, that you will find the opening of my letter Scarce worth the trouble. i have only one thing to tell you, which? can be at all interesting to you — that is, I believe if S they will not let me live in quiet here, I stall come '
and Settle with you in Ireland— — — and Mtis i
Elliot are So disappointed in lord Woburn, and So * eager to See me married, that they are every day,
I may add, every hour, proposing Somebody to me. | — Nobody proposed by them, hitherto, has pleased me. Ought I not to be astamed of preferring lord Woburn in my heart.? But though I like the man, I cannot approve of his behaviour; and Since I have been so much deceived in him, why may I not be permitted to entertain a Slight opinion of the rest of his sex?? may I not live Sree from any connexions with man? Since the good and the agreeable are not easily to be met with — I will remain as I aril.'"after all, I cannot help thinking, but that
lord
i. VJ K la w u C u K in. 103
lord Woburn is better than he appears to be as appearances are very much against him, therd is no venturing. — He Seems to me, now to wilh to b. reconciled, though too proud to make any concesii ' ’
ons J — and perhaps, were I to pardon him, I Should only give him an opportunity to offend agaift.* — So let things remain as they are. ^ ^I will keep up my., indifference to all men } and ismy vexations grow insopportabls, .1 will come, my dent Mrs. Blottisr, to you,
Vowr fmcere friend,
Charlotte Moansn, '
I
/
*
E' 4 I, E T
4
0 *
■/
LETTER XXXVIII
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
Lady charlotte has not been well. — I hope the dear creature vrill not, by Stifling her pasiion for me, throw herself into a fever. — jesting apart, though I vas seriously anxious about her, and began to think of a way to make it up with her, I could r ot meet her at any public place, after the night mentioned in my last letter- -- have called several times at her door, without being able to gain admittance. — The lasl time, I asked to Speak with Mrs. dawson— — came down, and with a roguish twinkling in her eyes, told me, that her lady was indisposed, and could not See company.
“She sees everybody but me, Mrs, dawson, ’* said I.
“No gentleman, my lord, but Mr, Elliot.”
“Tell her, ” replied I, “that I am exceedingly ■unhappy to hear of her indisposition.”
I was going, but recollested myself. r “Can you inform me, ” added I, “when She will be at Mr. elliot’s, for I know Sire goes abroad?”
dawson Smiled, but Seemed doubtful whether Sire
Should give me the desired Information or not 1
took out my purse, and removed her Scruples in a moment. — After a Small hesitation. She curtsied, and Said, “I will certainly let your lordship know.” The next day a line from Mrs. dawson informed me that her lady was to dine and Spend the evening, at Mr. elliot’s.
I dressed — and went thither about Seven.
The porter appeared in a puzzle, as if he knew not whether I was to be admitted.
While
While he was balancing about this important affair, Sir William ashton entered — He pasted me, and went upstairs. — I followed him, saying to the porter, “I see your family are at home.”
I found only Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, lady Charlotte, and a beautiful girl about fourteen or fifteen, who was, I soon found, a niece of Mrs. elliot’s.
Lady charlotte’s face gloved at my entrance, with pleasure I thought, but She Soon checked Such a presumptuous fancy, by astuming her late reserved behaviour. — The Elliots also looked exceeding Stiff in their carriage to me, though quite easy with ashton; — So that it would have been a more formal meeting, if Kitty Downton, the fine girl I mentioned, had not, by the agreeable naivete of her behaviour, thrown us, insensibly, into some kind of familiarity. — My charrning Charlotte, at last mixed with us, though the words which She addressed to me, were delivered with the utmost caution j all
picked, ail chosen ones, L asiure you — -- At first I
appeared cold and indifferent about her, but was soon converted into the tenderest, the most submisiive of lovers. — This movement did the business, Jack. ■~ i Saw her dear eyes, which were heavy and languid before, filled with a kind of fluttering joy; — her hands trembled, isi accidentally touched them I her completion became animated, and' She grew more lovely, more modestly condefeending than ever.
-- -- ashton hovered a little about her at first, but
finding he: Stood no chance near me, Soon lest us. You may be Sure Itook particular care to keep clear of those liberties, by which I had provoked her resentmenx. — T am not yet, indeed, authorised to take Such liberties; but when I am admitted as an honourable lover, I Shall expect to have no innocent freedoms denied me and yet, were She to grant me the laji favour, I would Sooner perish that moment than marry her. — You tell me I am ridieuloufly nice— — Carey — remember
E 5 Carey,
Carey, I say j and take heed lest you engage with women Similar to those by whom he has been undone.
This pretty little Kitty is, I Sind, to go home i with lady Charlotte; She has been bred up hitherto very discreetly. — I hope, I may venture to Say, that i hernewfriend will not spoil her. — Yet women and girls Seldom do each other any good — Srequently a great deal of harm.
II
In CONTINUATION. j
s
I
thad, positively, determined to throw myself at lady charlotte’.s feet at my next visit to her, and to make an honourable offer of my person and my for ume; but I am yet fearful; I know not how far I may trust a woman.
Lady louisa, my brother’s wife — curse on the
word -- -- is become So ridiculously attached to me,
that I cannot tell how to get rid ofher. 1 have
taken every method, in my power, to Shake herosf; ihe Still pursues me, even into my very inrnost retirement. Would you believe it, She came t’other morning before I was up, and insifted upon being Suffered to make her way into my bedchamber, pretending She had particular business;; indeed I believe She had some business of a very particular nature. — Upon my soul, if the women are allowed to go on at this rate, we Shall hear every day of
rapes committed upon men, and not by them. -- -- I
was absolutely quite oirt of countenance at her behaviour. — I actually don’t know which is greatest, her beauty or her folly. — And then the distoluteness ofher carriage is insupportable. no — if all women
are of this Stamp, L ean never bring myfeif to marry.
“Why, in the name of fortune, don’t you enjoy things as they fall in ycur way .?”
Were
Were I one of thole fenfualisls, who can relisli off y the personal charms of the sex, I Should, probably, aft in that manner j but though there never was a more amorous mortal than myselst I feel myfeif incapable of being fully Satisfied, with the momentary gratification of a vagrant pasiion. — But this indelicate filter of mine — ^ — what can be done with her.? How I pity poor Ned! — What an unfortunate Step has he taken, by marrying? A Step of which he will, I am afraid, repent as long as he lives. — '
I asked him a few days ago, if lady louisa was as much in love with him, as he was with her, ' before they came together? — ■ — - He replied, - that he had' never troubled himself about her love. — “Charmed with her person, I upon a very Short' acquaintance, made proposals, which Were accepted by her family; and as Sire, herself, offered'no objedlions, nol discovered any kind’of repugnance to the match, I thought myfeif the happiest of men; and I find myfeif so, as She has not discovered the least coolness to me, the least dislike fromi the moment I first iad ■ drested her.” — Poor Ned! — ^
“No coolness ?” Said I. — Surely 'you did not dare to attempt anything before the ceremony was ' performed', inconsistent with that decency and res pedt, with which every man of honour' Should behave to the woman whom he intends to marry ?”
“I don’t know what you mean, ” replied be, “I never had any improper design upon her; ■ but' when love prestes, and opportunity invites, who' can answer for what may happen ?” — i — This, you knowj was as much as to say — ■”
“And So — what 1 — and could you think of marrying her afterwards ?”
He looked totally disconcerted but yet Somewhat hastily answered, “I hope I Shall always adt like a man of honour, my lord.”
“Really t
Really! — And Sib, my good brother, because a woman happens to part with her virtue, you musl give up your senses! isyou had imagined her unable to Stand the trial, you Should not have attacked her; — but when Sire had fallen, you certainly acted like a madman by marrying her— — who will yield to one man, will to a hundred.
“I cannot be of your opinion, ” replied Ned. — A woman who is exceedingly fond of her lover, who is exposed to all his insinuating arts, and who bei lieves that in a very little time, he would be authorised to take the last liberties with her, cannot be So highly culpable, if in a moment, when they are mutually enamoured, She is, by her excess of love, deprived of any resisting power.”
“I find we are not likely to be of a Similar way of thinking on this subject” ” I, “for I am morally Sure, that the woman who has not Strength to re
suse one man, will be as paslive when another makes amorous approaches towards her. Such a woman is like a china cup; perpetually in danger of being ' broken, if not used with the utmost discretion; and j when once flawed, never to be restored to her origi | nal value.”
He did not, I thought, Seem pleased with me— — ' I was pleased with myfeif, for having given him some friendly hints, with regard to his wife, and indirectly urged the necessity there was, for his taking care ofher — But who can take care of a woman who has no regard for herself who, on the contrary, throws herself eontinually into dangerous
situations.?.? — -- -- -- all, who, indeed, can
answer for the cordudl of any woman? Is there not everything Said, is there not everything done to corrupt the Sex.? Are not the dislipations, the luxuries, the pleasures of the age. Sufficient to debauch the mind of a vestal? Scarce half a moment in the
female world is Spent in a rational manner. -- -- -- Lady
Charlotte, it is true, employs herself like a woman
of
0k m A ^ • w * - » ^
of sense; but I have known very sensible women, accomplished, ingenious women, extremely regardless of the moral duties — of those duties especially which no woman of spirit— — say nothing of principle — ought to disregard. -- -- -- -- -1 must therefore
move with caution; I must not make overtures with precipitation. — -- -- -- And yet I don’t think lady Charlotte
will admit me much longer, if I remain thus
Silent from circumspeftion. -- -- She will not think it
decent to give me free admisiion to her, unless I
come to the point. -- -- -- -- Two people cannot visit
each other, merely upon the footing of friendsliip;
they muit be immediately pronounced lovers. -- -- -- -- -- -
How ridiculous, on many occasions, are the decisions of the world I Surely a man may be in love with a woman, and like to converse with twenty others.
“Well, but you are always at lady charlotte’s.” ' I am, because I am nowhere else So agreeably entertained.
“Aye — didn’t I tell you that you were in love with her ?” — Now if people don’t soon find that the marriage articles are really drawing up, they will
Say that lady Charlotte is -- -- -- no better than She
should be, and that you are — a very happy man.”
I cannot bear to have lady Charlotte susjjedfed 5 I must, therefore, make this horrid declaration. — When it is once out, I Shall be easier. — besides, without it I can do nothing; for though I cannot Say how long her virtue will hold out, I must, as I hope it is impregnable, proceed exactly as if I believed it to be so J by proceeding in this manner, I Shall be authorised to take a thousand freedoms which wilst doubtless, let me fully into her humour, and make me thoroughly acquainted with her constitution : this is a kind of knowledge which every man, who has any thoughts of being that usefui animal a. husband, Should endeavour to come at, — Yet I Shud
de r
no riioiwixi r
der at the bare idea of putting myfeif entirely into her power. — But hold — will Slje not be more in my power, till the indissoluble knot is tied? — Should ihe, from an inability to resist my presiing Solicitations — Should She prove frail — I Shall have an excuse — a vile one, indeed, I grant — to be Courage — i’ll venture.
LET E R XXXIX
f
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs.
Blgm e r.
!
I DON’T know, my dear friend, whether you will approve of my conduct or not j but lord ' Woburn has, by a very discreet change in his beha 1 viour, brought me to admit him again to visit me.
-- -- -- -- 1 am afraid you will think me too easy. — i
However, that he may have no opportunity to re nevv' those freedoms, which excited my disapprobation, I have desired Mrs. Elliot to let me have my little Savourite Kitty Downton, with me for
a week or two. -- -- She is come to Stay with her
aunt, while her mother goes to Paris to see her brother, "who is thought to be dangerously out of order there. — Mrs. Downton does not chuse to take her daughter with her, because She has too ' great a regard for her morals, to give her a French
education. -- -- -1 confess I have always thought
that young women may more Safely know too little than too much of the world. — I mean, that those
girls
girls who are introduced early into all Sorts of company, and thrown into a life of disiipatibn, are frequently disqualified for being ■ good' wives, and good mothers.' — Mrs. Downton made a moult exemplary wife to Miy young friend’s father while he lived j : and Tbelieve you will think with me, that She is not a less excellent mother for Supposing that her own instruftions, joined to the lestons of the belt maslers, given under her own eye, may render her Kitty as accomplisired, as if She had been bred up in the politest convent in France. — I never had that pasiion for French clothes, French Servants, and a French education, as many people have; and I am acquainted with several amiable women, who never Set their feet out of England, nay, who cannot Speak the French language, which is now looked upon So estential to heighten the luslre of a fa ilrionable lady’s conversation. — To Speak'and read’ French and Italian too, with ease and propriety, is certainly both agreeable and useful;; an etnglish woman may, I imagine, learn them very advanta geously in her native country, without galloping either to Paris or Rome; for in those cities many acquisitions may probably be made by my travelling country women, produuive of unhappinesses sushci
ent to embitter the remainder of their lives. -- -1
Speak from experience ■; andfyou have not, I dare Say, forgot how much we were ashamed in our tour of Some travelled ladies of our acquaintance; frencloed not only out of thdiv compledtons, but their cljoraders.
My Sweet Kitty will, I hope, be a check upon lord' Woburn, till I See whether it will be necestary to break with him entirely or not. — But tell me, my dear Mrs. Blomer, and tell me Sincerely, am I not too partial.? Ought I to admit a man who takes liberties. -- -- -- 1 wislr I may not be wrong; and yet,
if I can trust my own judgement] at all, he is -- --
in
in every other respesl -- -- moll deserving of my esteem,
— However, I must be doubly on my guard
* -- -- and if I See any more reason to be distatissied
with his behaviour, dismiss him for ever. — rkicty has taken a great fancy to him; he distinguislied her the night he sirst Saw her at Mr. elliot’s and young people are always flattered by being taken notice of, by those older than themselves. He has since been rather particular to her, treating her like a child indeed, but like a child one was Sond of j
to be Sure Sire is an amiable girl. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
After having been romping with her yesterday, very decently, to do him justice, he Sent her up to fetch a translation of Pajior Fido, about which he had been asking her some questions. As Soon as She was gone out of the room, he said“ “has
an exceeding fine face -- -- -- -- has She had the Small --
pox.? It would be better for her to be less handsome.”
“Why so? replied I, is beauty then of no value ?” I
“If it is not accompanied with discretion, it is rather a calamity than an advantage..’?
“And pray how long has lord Woburn been So very discreet.?”
“Ever Since he has Sound lady Charlotte to be postested of every requisite, in woman to fix the mofl; volatile heart.”
Having uttered.these words, he Seized my hand,, and looked So earnestly at me, that he threw me in j to confusion. — instead of withdrawing my hand, I Suffered him to hold it: I was indeed, hardly able
to breathe. -- -- -- He Saw my embarrastment, and he
pitied it; he let go my hand, and begged me to pardon the abruptness of a declaration, which he" had long wislred to make. — — “Long have 1 wisli ed to make it, ” added he, but I always felt myfeif incapable of executing my design agreeable to my
wisiies I
JLUKL/ wudukin. II
wishes; If, however, you will only condescend to reflect upon the Situation of a man really enamoured, and unable to explain, by language, the feelings of his soul j you will, I am Sure, as your good nature is equal to your good sense, be inclined to pity, to excuse bis inability to make himself acceptable, just at rhe mosl interresting moment, and to permit him to endeavomr, by a thousand animated attentions, to convince you of his extreme tenderness- -- concluded with Saying, “It is’in
your power alone, to make me the happiest, or the most wretched of men. — My person, my fortune, and my heart are all at your difposal.”
I will not be sure, my dear friend, that I have done my lover justice, by the repetition of his address tome; fori was so fluttered during the delivery of it, that I Scarce knew what I heard, or how to believe it. — I hung my head in Silence, and certainly looked more foolislr than I ever did in my life.
Kitty came luckily to my relief, — Flying to him, ihe said“ “my lord, is my book; but indeed I am So ashamed of my writing, that I don’t like you Should see it.”
“That you may not be asliamed again, then you must write better j but come, let us hear how you pronounce the Italian.”
Throwing his arm round her, while She flood at his knee, he fixed his eyes upon me, with So mnch expresfion in them, that I was more abashed than Kitty, who perceiving him to be inattentive to her, looked up in his Sace, then on me, and read on. -- -- My lord Soon released her with Some compliments upon her pronunciation. -- -- -- She then Sat
down to her tambour.
My lord finding Kitty not In the least inclined to leave us by ourselves, rose and asked me, if I would permit him to See me again in the evening ?”
I replied.
4 Jij. IJL JL O JL XX X X
I replied, “that I had designed to make' Some visits, but that 1 would put them osf.”
He made a polite acknowledgement for my condescension, and went away Seemingly contented.
'As Soon as he was gone, Kitty, turning to me
Said, “My lord has very fine evos, madam j but I think they never' lock So handsome, as’when they are fixed upon your ladyssiip.”
I could not help bluslring at the girl’s remark j and I am afraid I am but too much of her opinion. -- -- Why Should I wish to conceal the feelingr'
of my heart from my belt, my faithpullest friend?
I will not conceal them my dear Mrs, Blomer. — *
Gn the contraryv I will freely own that this coni fesiion of lord woburn’s has given me the highesl fatissadtion, -- But as my letter is already of an immoderate
length, I must postpone what I have farther to Say till another opportunity.
LETTER XL '
Lord Wo'b trit n to Mr. Wilmot.
\
I HAVE, at last, conquered all my Scruples, andin Spite of the wtckfedhess of women, am going to be married to one of the most lovely, I hope too the most virtuous of Sex. — Going to be married, did tsayi No — no — that’s a miltake ^not yet
hut I am in a way towards matrimony. -- -- -- -- The
dear creature has thought proper to accept of me j and if nothing happens to prevent our union, I Shall' be the happiest of men. — Yes, Wilmot, I Shall certain., ly bethe happiest fellow in the universe, if Sire is really the angel she appears to be — the confusion with
which
JL. IX J / vv rv i x,
which She received my declaration is not to be described -- -- -- -- nor can I describe the corrcdted joy
which She afterwards discovered at my acknowledged attachment to her, — Thus far L am transported
-- -- 1 would be loved, nay;, doted on. -- -- -- --
But then can a woman posiibly feel a Strong pasiion for a man, and yet be capable of refusing his every request- -- -- must be So, Sire ought to be so,
or She is no wise for me. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- It is too
early for me to expect many familiarities. -- -- -- Besides,
lam so distractedly fond of her, at present, that I cannot bear to tempt her too much, lest She Should yield; lest I Should be obliged to give her up before I have at all enjoyed my new Situation. — And then this Kitty is always by her Side. — — — The little, chit is pretty, and as innocent as Such a girl can be, yet Sire is devilish Shrewd. — I don’t think Sire would dislike my making love to her myfeif,
though She is hardly out ofher white frock. -- -- But
I was never fond, of your green fruit: I hate mere raw girls — Give me the companion and the friend, ois well as the mistress— — Charlotte is this woman.
-- -- 1 spent.almoft all my hours, all my happy hours
with her, and never was So sensible of the flight of time, as in her company -- -- She is most kindly indulgent
; She Sees Sew people, except Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, and their particular friends, on ray account.
We were at almack’s t’other nihht.i: -- -- -1 had the
satisfaction to be preferred by her to Sir Charles
Conyers, just returned from Italy, -- -- -- -- -- -- Hers
one of the finest fellows T ever Saw, and extremely elegant in his address. — He immediately; distinguished Charlotte, and being known to; Mr. hlliot, begged to be introduced to her. — Elliot told him, that he came too late, I suppose; fori fawjilm fix his eyes
upon me, with a degree of envy. -- -- -- -- — Charlotte'
indeed appeared in the most lovely light; my atten i lions about, her, added to the. melting music, gave
So
so charming a languor to her eyes, that my admiration became quite enthusiastic— — heighten that admiration, She Seemed to look, to move, to think,
to breathe only for me. — - — I never knew what
love was, till I became acquainted with her.
»oli5x3«xjitx»{x»x)sx)kx»'»«
. LETTER XLI
I
i
I
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs.
Blomer.
"I
I AM jusl escaped from lord Woburn, to thank my kind stiendfor her caution; though I hope I | have too great a regard for the man, who is now, I |
may venture to Say, on the point of being my huf j
band, not to respedt myfeif. — -. Ought I not to i
be particularly careful, at this junsure, to conquer every foible, and to correct every error, left instead of rendering m yfeif more amiable, and more deserving of his esteem than I am at present, I Should be less worthy of it. ~ i tremble to think of the frailty of human nature. — Many women, too, too many as vir tuously inclined as I at this moment feel tnyself, have fallen victims to those men, who made them believe by the most insinuating arts, that they could not’ i give them susficient proofs of their affection., without
putting themselves, imprudently, in their power. --
May heaven defend me from being guilty of so capi i tal a weakness! Lord woburn’s behaviour to nre at present, is not in the least censurable: : is eager
t®
12 yy x ijy
I
to oblige me. Studies to prevent the declaration of my wishes, and makes no request which I may not .decently comply with. But, as you rightly observe, he before discovered a propensity to take rather unwarrantable liberties.' — I cannot be too much upon my guard; I cannot too vigilantly watch ove r my own conduct— — are certainly very often blamea ble for their ungenerous, their cruel exultation over our Sex; yet those woipen whom they attack, too frequently bring themselves into Scandalous Situations, by gradually encourageing improper Sree
doms. -- -- -- -- However, there have been, I doubt
not, women of very virtuous dispositions, overpowered, from a constitutional tenderness, by the Seducing carriage of the men who made their treacherous addreltes to them. — The deliquents of this class are to be pitied j the fallen females of the other are cuk
pable in the highest degree.' -- -- -- -- -- -- 1 would fain
believe, that lord Woburn has not cruelly triumph
^ X
ed over any woman’s virtue; i’would willingly believe, that he has never availed himself of an unguarded moment to render a weak innocent creature miserable for ever. — He astures me Solemnly, he never has Seduced any woman; he assures me, that Mrs. Mead actually Solicited him, or he never Should have thought about her. — When women go Such lengths, who can blame the men for exposing them, in order to deter others from being guilty of the Same unpardonable indiscretions?
Lord Woburn is jnst returned, I am, therefore, obliged to dispatch this without any farther additions. — Were not Mr. Elliot kind enough to inclose my letters in his packet, I Should be ashamed of sending you so many. Pray accept of this apology for the poorness of my invention at pre(ent, and, in return, continue your very prudent advice to one who loves the mofl amiable man in the umrld, as much as Sire is beloved by him.
L E .D
LET R XLII
Lord ’W o t U R N to Mr. w11 m o t o
I HAVE just: brought my Charlotte to ccnfelsy that I ii.m the only man who ever touched her heart, and that it is absolutely impoffiblje for hei ever
to lave another. -- -- I'heie acknowledgiiienl^, in
tnith, came very feafona biy for sir.charl.es con yeis, though he has been.toid again and again that ihe is en; ^age(j, per stsb in foilowmg her about, v/nh as much alliduity .as? df he had any hopes of Supplanting me— — -- — Suspicions, rack cd with anxiety, 1 teased the dear creature for some ililikin? rroofs cf her affection, though She had repeatedly declared, I had nothing to apprehend from Sir Charles. -- -- -- However, as he appeared
to me a very formidable rival, I could not be Satisfied ill 1 had obtained a lull confesiion of her tender and Stron? attachment to me. -- - — But it was
o
no easy matter for me to gain the wislied for Satisfaction, as She was always attended by her little
fairy. -- ^at lust chance Stood my friend. -- - — Kitty
was lent for to Mr. elliot’s. -- -- 1 found my dear
Charlotte by herlhlf, drelscd.
“Where are you going ?” Said I., “and whereas Kitty .?”
“She is not at home, ” replied Sire —
“i hank heaven! I have the pleasure of Seeing, you v'iihout that eternal Spy ripen your locks, words, andaflions.”
tti
“If
“If they are as they ought to be, ” Said Sire, “they will not be afraid of the severest Scrutiny.” “True — and therefore I am glad we are by ourselves, ” answered I, throwing my arm round her, “that you may tell me, whether lam really So dear to you as I am willing to hcpe I am.”
“Why Should you doubt me, my lord ?” Said the dear girl, blushing, and casting down her charming eyes -- -- -
“I do not doubt you, ” .replied I, killing her eagerly in Spite of her Struggling, “but as I am delighted with every opportunity to convince you of the ardo ur of my asfection, I cannot help earnestly wishing to hear fi om your Sweet lips that your affedion for me is as warm and as Sincere as mine is foryou.”
■ “Hold, my lord — (breaking from me) I can ea sily give you the satissadlion of which you Seem to be so desirous J but these violent proceedings will not procure it.”
“My poor Charlotte, ” Said I, laughing at her, while She appeared a thousand limes more beaui full, by the high glow in her cheeks, increased by her embarrastment, began to adjust her tippet, which I had tumbled a little, “fuppose I cannot be Satisfied without them, what will you Say, .?”
“Nothing, my lord -- -- -- (rising gravely, and going
to the other end of the room) I lliall leave you till you are in a more agreeable humour.”
“Let me die, if 1 think it possible for me to be
mere agreeable than I am at this very instant. -- -- --
I am Sure I never loved you so much in my life j — ■
lay aside, therefore, this reserved air -- return to
nry srms, and make me the happiest of mortals.”
A look of inconceivable clil'dain was immediately darted at me; and She walked towards the door, “Hold, madam, ” Said I, “Sor your own advan tas[e condescend to hear a few words, before you
throw
throw yourself away in a pet. -- -- -- Be astured, that
however lovely I think you, however tenderly I csteem you, I Shall not dangle after you merely to gaze on you like a China doll upon the Chimney piece, while you are full as cold and as insensible.”
“I am neither the one nor the other, my lord, ” replied She, almost melting into tears, “but I could not have imagined you would have found fault with the propriety of my conduct: : rather flattered myself, I cenfess, that it would have raised me in your ■ esteem.”
“Esteem, mere esteem, will never do, my dear Charlotte, ” Said I, advancing to make up our little difference, transported at the Same time, to find her So discreet j “but if you can, with truth, asture me, that I am the only object of your tenderness, and that you feel an increasing tenderness for me, i am ready to ask your pardon, for resenting a behaviour, which I thought, 1 own, circumstanced as we are, too forbidding.”
“I am alsc ready to tell you, ” replied Sire “that I x\q\’cx have loved, that I never can love any man
buty>i?«. -- -- Now will you not be Satisfied ?” added
foe. Smiling in my face. — She then turned away her own, to hide her blushes.
i caught her in my arms. — How far I might have been tempted, I cannot Say. — A violent rap at the
door instantly altered cur Situations.' -- -- She went
out to make visits with Gadely, who came to call her.
And now -- -- -- sofar, so well -- -- She has behaved
hitherto like an angel — but — She was not properly
melted to my purpose. -- -- -- -- woman who is not
a downright wanton, is not always in humour. -- -- -- -1
must firtt wind up her passion for me as high as it wili go; and then urge her, by every insinuating art
in my power, to the gratification of it. — -- -- If She
has Strength to refist my attacks -- -1 Shall adore her
if She yields -- -1 Shall dote on her; -- -- but,
mark me, I do not Say that I will marry her.
I. F. T
LORD WOBURN. izi
I
! Heir
LETTER XLIII
i
Lord W o B u R It to Mr. Wilmot,
SINCE my last attack, the enemy has been so well guarded, that I have not Sound a Single moment to play off my grand battery against her. — Yet has She been absolutely enchanting, and less ' Severe in her manners, on purpose, as I imagine, to
keep me from making any farther attempts. ■ --
However, 1 may be deceived. — Her Smiling looks, perhaps, only declare the pleasure which She feels from my endearments. — She loves me, I am assured,
and I could devour her. cannot hold out long
in this manner -- to be tantalised thus! — intolerable
! — She has, indeed, given up her hand entirely to my discretion, and a charming one it is; but by so doing, She has made me more eager to come at the rest of her.
Both (lie and the Elliots, I believe, think that I
am in a monstrous hurry to be married — but there
they are quite out. — I am well watched, however.
-- -- besides Kitty Downton, we have got a Mrs.
Staples, one of your good pretty kind of women. —.
She is tall and Slim j she has a pale compledtion,.
Hack eyes, but no chin. — She smiles and Simpers at
everything that is Said. -- 1 am amazed that a
woman of charlotte’s understanding can like such a
nonentity to be always near her; as I know Sire Is
above all that meanness of carrying a soil about
with her j -- She has indeed no sort of occasion for
‘ one, her beauty wants nothing to Set it off.
1 asked her, t’other day, who that lady was.
rr (I TL*
The daughter of a particular friend of my mother’s, ” replied She, “who was married unfortunately.”
“She Is a widow, then ?”
« No — - — but Mr. Staples, is abroad. ”
If I was Mr. Staples, I Should make no hasle to
come home to Such a wife, thought il itcvityou
often reprove me for railing against women.^fc take notice, J ack, I do allow that some few may be virtuous, but those few must be, like Mrs. Staples, unable to raise envy in woman j.or desire in man. — I dare affirm, that Mrs. Staples ia strong antidote to love. — I heartily wish She was, a thousand miles off
at present -- -- My charlotte’s eyes would look the
tenderest things, were but this long, tall maw kin out of the way, - — — Asto little‘kitty, I have toyed and trifled with her, till the child is as innocently fond of me as of her dog or her Squirrel, and is no more afraid of me than of either of those animals. -- Int
'. " ■
nocence alone makes Security. — — ^<^ery. Whether lady Charlotte is the cherub She appears to be? — If She is apprehensive of no danger, why is She more coy, more my of pie, than the playful Kitty is? Ay — but I have alarmed her with my freedoms. — — Well — and I have kisted Kitty twenty and twenty times, yet She runs to me with open arms: Charlotte, on the contrary, who really looks as if she could fly into them with as much rapture as I would receive her, ftartsaway and appears to be afraid of trusting herself near me. — Admirable, however, is this behaviour. — She astures me Sufficiently by it, that She is deeply wounded. — When once a woman who is cxcestively enamoured with her lover, can arm herself against his most vigorous Solicitations, She is — everything he can wish for j everything he ought to wish for.
End of the First Volume.
i tl ih
CAUTIOUS lover:
OR, THE
HISTORY
, J
0
OF
LORD WOBURN.
By a Young Gentleman of Oxford, UN TWO VOLUMES.
V O L II
/
D U B L I N
Printed for J A M E S W I L LI A M S, aj No, 5. in Skinner row.
t
1
t
I
!
I
I
I
j '
i
i ■
I
I
(
»
.
i
i
i
f
f
j
I
I
4
i
(■
t
I' -,
\ PA
\
X
\
V
%
f
i
«
I .^rsi, I
I *sl..fs^ *5tjl** I
###*§###########•##########
■: N
f
}
T n JS
CAUTIOUS LOVER.
. *

*
* •
\
s E E T T E R XLIV
I
Lady Charlotte Moroen to Mrs
Blomer.
Every hour, my dear friend, Since you left me, have I regretted your departure j — but I am particularly asfedled by your absence at present, Your apprehensions on my account, my good Mrs. Blomer, were not ill-founded. — Lord Woburn is but too amiable. — Yet do not mistake me — i — a man so uncommonly agreeable; a man who has some reason to demand a return of affection, is rather to be feared, especially when he is, I See, too apt to be offended at my refusing liberties which, though allowable in a degree, mull at this juncture,
F X be
J2D nibluky Ur
be reckoned both indelicate and indiscreet— — a: : therefore, any dispute or difference with a man : whom I cannot dil'please, without feeling very pain;; sensations, I would Seldom receive him alone; I i would never, atleast be alone with him a great while >~ happy, then, would your company make me at this time, as the awe which your appearance always i inspires, would be of considerable Service to me.
I have invited Mrs. Staples to come and Stay with ■ me i not only to be a check upon my lord, but upon myself — miss Downton being looked upon by him as of little consequence— — are, indeed, upon So familiar a footing, that She comes and goes at his bidding, and takes as much pains to please him, as if She was in love with him j — and in truth,; J believe She feels all that her young heart is capa!! of feeling for him — After having left me, alone! with him, t’other day, I told her, when he was! one that I was asraid lord Woburn had made her! cease to be my friend; and that 1 was a little jea> i lous of the preference ihe gave him.
She threw her arms round my neck, and Said i “No, indeed, my lady, I love you as well as ever, ^ but my lord is So entertaining, and looks So hand;; that I cannot resuse him.” — She Is a Sweet 1 insinuating girl but too young to be talked with upon this Subject;; I know not how Soon such a conversation may be necessary, as the men
begin to take a great deal of notice of her sir
Charles pays much court to her, though Sire is so young a girl — Mrs. Elliot tells me, he is So attentive to her, because he knows Sire is my Savourite. — But to what purpose can he behave in this manner, as I am engaged. — He is, I think, rather too particular to me; but as he Is reckoned amiable, and as his character is unexceptionable, I Shall be glad to See an alliance bye and bye, between him and miss Downton. — She has an excellent disposition;
on; and if nothing happens to alter her teihper, She will, undoubtedly, make any man happy, whom She can love — ^^ — = — But, as I was telling you — I have desired Mrs. Staples to Spend a few weeks with me.
She is not an eligible companion, I musl confess, though, 1 believe, a very Safe one. — Lord woburn has taken a Strange dislike to her — and does not e ven conceal his displeasure, at having so much of
her company, -- -- -- -- — Why, then, will he oblige
rne to have recourse to Such disagreeable expedients to keep him at' a proper drltance.? — ^ and yet I cannct', Sind fault with him. — T Should not be pleased to see
him cold and insensible neither — folie called me
t
t’other day. -- -1 would be tenderly loved, but I
Would also be loved with discretion. — Perhaps a man of lord woburn’s fusceptibility, cannot love
and be discreet at the farne time— — is better,
therefore, for Us both to be watchful over ourselves | and he ought no longer to fret about Mrs. Staples.
LETTER XLV
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.'
IT is adfually come to an open rupture between us, and I am the moult Satisfied man in the world, with regard to her virtue j but I have Some doubts about her renderness. — Can any woman love as She ought, and be So intolerably prudent.? — You Shall
hear. -- -- 1 waited for that confounded Mrs Staples s
absence for several weeks, and heartily cursed her during that time. — Mrs. Elliot happening to he not very well, Sent for her, to my great joy, one evens
4. ing.
ing -- -- Kitty, at my instigation, though lady Char;;
by no means approved of her removal, took that opportunity to go into her own apartment, |
to write a letter to her mother. -- -- -1 then Seized the i
critical minute, and amply revenged myself on this | lovely woman, for keeping me at so cruel a dif j
tance -- -- -- She received my first caresies pasiively e;;
and appeared to be not a little asfedled by! the tenderness I lavislied upon her, but upon my re: : them with redoubled warmth and ardour, 1 She Smarted from my arms, pushed me from her with; a quickness and agility, for which I was not prepared, and told me, that as She could not have believed, I would have offered to insult her in that manner, She Should infill upon my leaving her, till I knew how to behave with more decency and : respedt. I
Firing at the iiaughtiness with which this reproof was delivered, and half mad with my disappointment, I told her that I had for sometime suspe£led her of having more pride than pardon; and that I would Sooner perisli, than marry a woman divested of every tender sensation;
I was even Severe enough, to impute the repulse,
I had met with to an asfefted modesty -- -- -- -- adding,
that I Saw plainly, She had no aversion to the freedoms She complained of, though She chose to deny herself any pleasure, rather than make me happy, by the moult trifling gratification.
Here I stopped the Sharp esfufions which my ungovernable resentment had occasioned, and was thinking of some submisiions for the illiberal language She had forced from me. — At that instant, She very calmly desired me to leave her to herself, as Ihe had for sometime wisiied to be alone.
I was just ready to curse her provoking coolness, though I Strove to Stifle my anger in hopes of bringing about a recqnciliation. — She rose, and, palling
by
JL U K JJ W U 13 U K IN. 12,
hy me hastily, without Speaking a Syllable, walked up stairs.
I stood looking after her for some moments, hardly astured whether I was awake or in a dream, yet, expecting every moment to See her return. — No ~. her return would have been too great a condescension. — I, therefore after having waited till I was weary, went home.
I went home, but could not close my eyes all night. — Deeply did I ruminate on charlotte’s Spirited behaviour, her highly proper behaviour, and loved her the more for her resistance to the vigorous efforts which I purposely made, to put her discretion to h e trial.
Yet I thought She had discovered too much pride, too much disdain, with her prudence. — Had there been more Softness, mixed with her laudable opposition, T Should have deemed no submisiions too great, for the recovery of her favour. — But She
does not, I am sure She cannot, love me. -- -- And
shall I go and fling myself away upon a woman who feels no tenderness for me, who is absolutely unmoved by my pasfion for her.? Shall I, who have been so extremely beloved — by all women, ' I may
fay— — I — No !• — I will perish sirst. -- “However,
I humbled myself So far, as to call at her door the
next morning. — Would you believe it -- -- -- the insolent
creature was denied -- ^yesj She was denied
I Sent again in the evening, to know if She was at home, for I would not lay myfeif open to another insult, inperfon, from her Servants.
My fellow brought me word, that She was gone, out of town.
“Out of town?” cried I, storming at him — I could have pistoled him for his d -- -- -- d information
— “whither ?”
He fneakingly replied, “that he did not know, — F
D — — n you, then. Said I, go and ask, ”
'~ f < And
And now. Jack, I am absolutely ashamed of my pasiionate behaviour before my own Servant, — How have I demeaned myself! — Yet I will not write to
this proud beauty, nor will I run after her. if
she really loves me, my neglect will Sting her to the ' quick; and She will Strike upon some expedient to
lure me back again. — I will be courted now.
What, am I to be made a woman’s Sool, bepause She happens to be more chaste than her neighbours? — I Swear I begin to think her innocence may be disputed. — There is no great merit in refusing a dish which is not agreeable to your palate, — And yet I detefl, I abhor myfeif for having carried matters So Sar. — What a precipitate dog have I been.? — But Since I have plunged myself into this cursed Situation, I will die before I will tamely yield to her insurmountable pride. — Yield! — No — She Shall be humbled in her turn.
'4^ ^ ^
LETTER XLVI
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs. blo.vte*., ’
IH A V E often said, my dear Mrs. Blomer, that I was too particular in my choice, ever to be happily married; and I Sind no reason to retradt my frequent assertions. — I am exceedingly disappointed with regard to lord Woburn. — I all along Seared, indeed, that he was inclined to be too Sree with women j but though I had Seen Some pretty Strong proofs of his free disposition, I could not have thought he would have presumed to take unbecoming liberties with me, who never gave him the leash encouragement to imagine, that they would be endured.
dtired. — Nor could I have thought, that he would have discovered So little inclination to make a proper apology for his unwarrantable behaviour.' -- -- --
But Since it is So, I will Stifle every sensation in his favour. — Whatever pain I may Suffer in giving up a man, who in other respedls, is really very amiable — and determine to See him no more. — I have not Spirits at this time, my dear friend, to enter into a detail of the new difference between us. — I havfe, however related it very fuccinftly to Mrs. Elliot, who will write to you by this posl, and who has been kind enough to go down with me to a house I have taken at Windsor for a few weeks, till I am better reconciled to this unexpedled change in rtiy Situation. — I am not able to say any more. — I can only add, that I am, that I ever flrall be, my dear Mrs, blomer’s
most asfedtionate,
C M.
/ '.A V ‘ V V '%
I
LETTER XL VII
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
I A M half dislrafted. — I could curse myfeif, and
all the world. -- How could I be Such an idiot,
as to carry my fuspicions So far.? — Having never met with anything like virtue in a female form, before I hastily supposed that the loveliest, the most amiable of women, was no better than those with whom I had conversed— — I am, certainly, quite mistaken. -- -- She is everything that’s good, and She
loved me — beyond expreilion. — Fool! fool I tolose
the
tel., ■ - -4
'Withe
only woman with whom I could have been happy I To lose her by my own ridiculous nonfense! — Have I not often tried her! Have I not always found heraverse tomy unjustifiable familiarities? Her delicacy was grosly affronted, and She has totally given me up. -- She has alienated her affections
from me, and will bless Somebody with the pos sesfion of that heart, that valuable heart, which once owned me for its masler.
Sir Charles is, I hear, gone down after her to Windsor, to jsvhich place She has chosen to retire from my impertinent persecutions. — I Said I would not write, but I could not forbear, — Hearing upon farther inquiry, that She did not intend to return, I wrote a few incoherent lines, in order to
apologise for my Strange conduct. -- -- -- 1 cannot
repeat them; they were not Sit to be transmitted to her; but I was not capable of expresiing myself in a better manner. — Had I, however, written with the pen of an angel, Sire would have rejected my letter as She has rejeued me. — I Sent Salway with it. — The reply was, that lady Charlotte was ill. — Anything
Served for an excuse not to make it up. -- Yet it
She ever did love me. She could not have been So violently inflamed against me, for discovering a high relisli for her overpowering beauties — No — She reserves herself for Conyers — but he Shall not triumph over me. — Readily will I hazard my life for such a charming creature. — But am I Sure that by the death of my adversary, I Shall make her mine? — No — but if I fall She may perhaps, drop a tear to my memony.
LETI
VW w XV
LETTER XLVIII
From the same to the Same.
\
SH E is sick— — is dying, for aught I know. — »
I Shall run mad. — I had believed that her ill ness was only counterfeited; She wanted to avoid
the light of me, I imagined. — I was mistaken -- --
Would I were not mistaken 1 — I would give up anything, everything, to have her restored to me j but I fear I must not expect her recovery. — I send continually to know how Sire does, but She is too bad to hear of my inquiries — To what a ridiculous — to what a horrid Situation, Indeed, have I brought
myfeif.? -- And yet how could I venture to Spend
my life with any woman — as women go — till I had
tried her Could I have imagined that this trial
would have coil lady Charlotte her life.? — — Heaven forbid! I concluded, that the liberties I had taken would occasion a Slight resentment at the time; that resentment, I thought, would Soon be over, and
give way to returning friendship. How am I dist
appointed 1 How wretched am I! If She Sinks under her present illness, I will leave the kingdom, and never think of women again, as long as I breathe,
LET
n i o i vj s X
•I###########?
letter XLIX
From the Same to the same.
SH E lives — She is better .delightful information! No mestage, however, has yet been
delivered to her from me. -- -- Yet I am so Satisfied,
so transported with her being quite out of danger,
that I hardly think of myfeif at all. -- Let her but
live, and I will trust to her excellent dispofition, to restore me to the place I once had in her csteera. — In the mean time I have a thousand fears, left Ihe Should not recover. — She cannot I thi k, continue to be angry with me for loving her j yet She may deem it necestary to keep up an appearance of anger in order to Save her credit.
In Short, I am almost lick myfeif, with dwelling
upon this foolish business; and yet, for the soul
of me. I cannot repent of a conduct which has discovered her to be the most amiable creature in the world,
/
* J
L E T
KS JLP VY V X VJ IS. 135
!###§##### it
LETTER L
From the same to the same.
•»
IWAS distracted a few days with the terrors of losing her by death, and now 1 am as unhappy by the certainty of losing her, from her prepof feslions against me. — You may tellme, that I am too delicate in my sentiments, that I am capricious, and do not know what I would have 1 — but you are out : every man Should wilh to marry a woman of virtue, or how can his honour be Sale? How can he be Sure that his children are his own? And as women are nrore corrupt, and more loose. in their manners than ever, who can be Secure but by chusing a woman of real virtue? and how the devil will you know whether She is chaste till you have tried her.? — You tell me, I musl have long seen by lady charlotte’s behaviour, that She was of a mild modesl temper j and ask me, what I would have more? She is, indeed, modesl and mild, or I
Slrould not have thought of her at all. you tell
me, also, that as I found her very averse to the improper freedoms I took, I Should have proceeded no farther. — I Subscribe to your firsl posirion, my friend, hut not to your Second. — If I had only confined myfeif to the liberties allowable in every man who is an accepted lover, how Should I have been certain ofher being able to resisl unwarrantable ones.? — — I am now well astured that She is thoroughly dis pleafed with my too great familiarities, though Sire loved me at the Same time— — though I firmly be'ieve She did love me, I do not Imagine She ever loved me with a pasiion adequate to my own.
H 1 S 1 U K Y O f
with that excesiive ardour, which can alone render me Supremely happy.
I don’t think She loves me at all at present. — By refusingmy visits, She gives sushcient encouragement to this disheartening conjecture. — Had She been as fondly attached to fme, as I .hoped She was She could not hav e totally repelled my endearments. — However, whether She is So attached to me or not, She is a vestal, as women run; and, therefore, I Shall be extremely ready to take her as She is. — Yeti own I am seriously piqued at her behaviour to me. — I have not been accustomed to refusals— — to be repulsed when things were in Such a forwardness l^how ridiculous a man looks, so Situated .?■ — My pride never received a Severer blow. — If She persists in keeping up this humour, and will not be reconciled, I cannot say to What I may be driven j “perplexed in the extreme, ” T
may do Some action- -- -- -- --
Shall write to her once more j if that makes no impresiion, I must conclude that She avails herself of this pretence to break with me, in order to be at liberty to give her hand to Sir Charles Conyers, who, from the progress he has made in the Elliot family, gets admittance to her. — He, he is admitted. — I — 1 only, am denied.
V
LET
^ ^
LETTER LI
Lady Charlotte Morden to
Mrs. Blomer.
YOU press me to write to you, my dear friend, but I have neither health nor Spirits; I am not Satisfied with myself, nor with anybody else. — ^ Even you, my dear Mrs. Blomer, Seem to have changed your Sentiments about me, and urge me to accept of Sir Charles Conyers. You tell me, that you are well acquainted with him, and know him
to be a man of the nicesl honour. you may be
right — I have nothing to say to the contrary; and yet I find in myself not the Slightest inclination for him J and I will marry no man, in whole favour I
am not very Strongly preposiested indeed. iwas
never very desirous of altering my Situation in life. — The disappointment which I have met with, will probably prevent me from making any alteration in It.
I agree with you, that Sir Charles is very Solicitous to please me; but if I am not to be pleased, I cannot help it. — You tellme that I must go more into company, and Strive to conquer my melancholy. — I may See a thousand people without being made in the least chearfuller by them. — However, I have consented to oblige Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, and to return to London, though I had much rather continue here, provided Sir Charles would visit me less frequently— — and Mrs. Elliot chuse to See him,
I cannot, therefore, avoid him, without confining, myfeif to my own apartment.' — To such a confinement my friends are excedingly averse— — shoum have no. dislike to Sir Charles, as a common acqua/i^,
tancsw
130 iii o 1 V js. I w r
tance; but his asiiduities — I had almost added his impertinences -- -- -- -- -
Kitty is here at present. — As I cannot have your
company, Sire is my most desirable companion. -- -- --
With her, with my books', with my drawings, and now and then a visit from Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, I
could be content. -- But it muit not be; they will
force rne among people, in Spite of all my wislres to the contrary.
LETTER LIII
,
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot,
I HAD just resolved upon writing again to ladjr Charlotte, when a thought flew into my head, which has done the businefs much better.
Having taken care to inform myself of all her motions Since our difference, I heard that, though She was recovered from her illness, She was in a deep
melancholy, which Seemed to be immoveable; -- -- -- -
that She was, with the greatest difficulty, persuaded to mix with her acquaintance, as She used to do, and that Sire never went to any place of public diversion. — This information was not calculated, indeed, to give me thorough fatisfa(5tion, because I could not hope to meet with her j yet I resolved not to give up the point. — At length I was informed that She was to be at Mrs fisiier’s rout. — I drested, got there
before her, and was luckily Seized by miss Batley
for the first time I found a woman’s forwardness
Serviceable
Lj VY XJ U IX
Serviceable to me. -- -- When lady Charlotte entered
the room, miss Batley had laid her hand upon my Shoulder, and was talking to me with all the fluency and afsedted importance of a woman who thinks herself handsome. — She certainly must be allowed to be a good figure.
Lady Charlotte entered, pale, and negligently drelted; but infinitely more lovely from the affeuing languor which overspread her fine features. — A faint blush tinged her cheeks when ihe casl her eyes on me.
I left Batley immediately, to make my very res peftful compliments to her lady Ship. — They were returned with a frigid politeness,
I took no notice of the extreme coldness of her carriage, but turning upon my heel, Snatched bat ley’s hand, and kept her in a whisper for a full half hour, at the end of which, both of us burst into a loud laugh — I led her to a chair just opposite to lady Charlotte, who had declined play, and having Seated myself by her,, began to adl the successful • lover, though my words were the most insignificant ones imaginable, and had no kind of conneflion with my looks and gestures.
oster having Several times stole a glance at my real goddess, I Saw her Sink down in a fainting fit.
No words can describe my agitation. -- -- -- -1 broke
abruptly from miss Batley, who bawled out,
” Look, look, my lord, what can be the matter with lady Charlotte .?” and flew to the dear creature.
I raised her in my arms, and, regardless of every body present, poured out a volley of the most pathetic exclamations all of which came from the
heart. -- -- -1 was really in an agony, jack. -- -- -- -- -1
had Suffered, it is true, not a little, from her late illness, but I did not imagine I had loved her half so well.
It
Ur
It was a considerable time before She opened her eyes— — became almost distracted;; all kinds | of Salts and estences to her nose, which the ladies offered me, prested her hands, alternately, in mine, and was just going to asfist Mrs. Elliot in loosening her gown, c. when She recovered. — With a deep ■ with a glowing blush, She raised her head from my bosom, and attempted to make Some apology
for the Situation Sire had been in. -- -- tran^orted
"to See her once more restored to me, I entreated her to be composcd, and, by way of helping her to recover from her confuston into which She had been thrown, laidkhe blame upon the excesiive heat of So crowded a room.
With a look full of gratitude. She eagerly catched at this excuse, and directly availed herself of it, in order to go home.
“Not for the world, ” continued I, “on no account would I have you go into the air so Soon; your Sudden departure, may occasion a. reiapse. — — Give me leave to asiist you, my lady, in walking into the next room till you are more recovered.”
She did not refuse; She rose, and even accepted of my arm. I conducted her to a parlour, to which'
only Mrs, Elliot and Mrs. fisher followed -- *the;
latter withdrew as soon as She had proposed severas hinds of refrestrment to lady Charlotte, who was,
however, too much agitated to receive any. — -- — I
attended her with a Solicitude and anxiety sufficient to convince her, how exceedingly dear She was to my heart, how absolutely necesihry to my happiness;; I considered time and place So far, as to avoid everything, that could increase the confu^ ston still visible in her countenance. — — — When She went home, after having returned to the company,
Soon afterwards, I did not follow herl only pressed.
her hand rapturously, when I put her into her
chair.
^ ^ ^ ^ ^
chair, and begged leave to inquire after her health the next day. — She neither granted nor denied my
request, but her behaviour was encouraging. -- -- -- 1
went back immediately to the card room, to let them See that I had not retired with her, but made a Short stay. -- -- -- -
I Scarce closed my eyes all night. So eagerly did I long to know if my Scheme had Succeeded. As Soon as I thought She was ready to admit me, I haftenedl to her door.
The Servants conduced me to her.
The timid and disconcerted air with which She received me, gave me the strongest assurance, that I Still held a place in her dear heart.' ■ In consequence
of the great Satisfaction I felt upon the occasion, I entreated her, even before I inquired after j her health, in the most earnest terms, to pardon a
'behaviour, which had given her So much displeasure
declaring Solemnly, that the violence of my love alone had occasioned my misdemeanours, and as Solemnly asturing her, that her admirable conduct having railed her So much higher than ever in my esteem, I could never think of being happy without her.
The energetic manner with which I Spoke touched her, and sofar threw her off her guard, that She replied, though evidently confused, “What then, my lord, am I to think of your behaviour to miss Batley .?”
“Think of it as it was, only a little Stratagem, to discover if your charming bosom Still felt any emotions in my favour; and may I not flatter myfeif that it has been successful.? Though I confess I never was so much alarmed, lesl it had occasioned emotions too painful in your tender breast.”
don’t pronounce me a coxcomb, Wilmot -- -- -- -- -- -1
Should not have made So home an address to her, had 1 not Seen that the dear creature continued in a
strange
strange flutter about me. — She, however, did everything in her power to conceal her satissaftion j She cast down her Sweetly embarrafsed eyes, and averted her blushing Sace. — Urged now by pity, as well as love, I ventured to press her fondly to my bosora, but in So respedlful a manner, that it was Sufficient to banish all her apprehensions. -- -- -- -- She withdrew
herself from my arms, but with a Sort of reluctance, which affected me beyond expresfion, and looked as if She Said, “How blessed could I be in that Situation, were I not afraid of you! ”
J was not mistaken. She repeatedly importuned me to leave her, and I at last resolved to comply with her request, though never less inclined to go from her. -- -- Only Say that you forgive me, lady Charlotte, and will See me again in the afternoon.” ....
“Well, well, ” answered She, with the most delicious Smile, “leave me now — ^ — and I will consider fit.”
I returned between Seven and eight, and found the Elliots and pretty little Kitty, who appeared to
be rejoiced to see meto my great comfort,
the disgusting Mrs. Staples is quite removed j but we Shall, I suppose, have Some other Argus to Supply
her place j though Charlotte may now trust me. -- --
No man can have a higher opinion of a womaa than I have, at this moment, of Charlotte.
/
LET
>■
un.
Lady Charlotte Morden to
Mrs, Blomer.
I DON’T know whether my conduct will merit ' your approbation, but I will honestly confess the truth. — I Was not proof against lord woburn’s pretended addrestes to another woinan.^i could give him up, I am sure I could, If he behaved unworthily j but I fear I could not, undisturbed, See him attached to any other person. — I have exposed myself indeed, but if I am really in the full postesfion of his heart, it will, I hope, make me ample amends for what I have endured on his account.
Yet I have a thousand apprehensions, a thousand terrors. — Should he again take advantage of my ea siness, I must give up all thoughts of him for ever — consequently all thoughts of marriage’
I have, for sometime, looked upon my lord Woburn as my dearest friend, my future companion, the man to be one day my husband, and have Set myfeif to dwell on, and to admire all his amiable qualities, throwing a veil over his imperfections — — ' Can I, therefore, Suddenly discard from my heart., the man whom 1 have preferred to all others, and whom, to say truth, I still think, in Spite of that behaviour which kindled my resentment, very amiable. — When he Solicited my forgiveness in the most humiliating
terms, could I be inexorable.? -- However, I had
fortitude enough to let him See that his conduu; highly offended me; and that he might have no opportunity to repeat his offence, I ordered myself to be denied, — Accidentally, on my part, we met at a rout.
As
6k ^ A JL A. Jk 'V JL
As I thought a card room no place for the adjustment of a difference like ours, I discovered no Signs of any alteration in my sentiments— — a Slrort time the particularity of his behaviour to another lady, made me fear that I had gone too far — and that he was quite lost to me. — This was a disappointment, for which I was in no Shape prepared, and I could hardly Support it : indeed I turned pale, felt myself extremely out of order, and was Soon deprived of my senses.
The first object I beheld, on recovering, was lord Woburn, who held me in his arms, and gave Such affecting proofs of his anxious care and tenderness, that I believe those prooss were more efficacious, than all the remedies applied towards my relief.
I cannot describe the emotions by which he Seemed to be agitated, while I was indisposed, nor his apparent apprehenstons lest my indisposition Should return j — yet was his respcdt equal to his assiduity } the manner in which he apologised for his carriage the next day, Sufficiently made amends for all his former improprieties,
I felt myfeif more touched by the delicacy with, which he treated me on that Smscle occaston, than ever I had been with all the tender things he ever had said to rne before; and I could not help earnestly misltiing, that he might never again give me reason to change the opinion I then entertained of him.
■ — I was, however, at that moment So exceedingly fearful lest he Should, by relapsing into his former indiscreet freedoms, oblige me again to dismifs him, with freslr marks of my displeasure, that I hurried him away, thinking it better to defer a longer interview with him, till we were both more composed.
Yet, notwithstanding this reconciliation, so unexpected by us, I must acknowledge Mr. and Mrs.
elliot’s care of me, in providing another lover. -- -- -
it hey
'I
^ ^ i,,
— They meant well, though their designs were un successfirl every impartial person indeed, muit allow Sir Charles Ccnyers to be an agreeable man. —.
Kitty’downton, I fancy, will console him. -- -- Not that
I believe She thinks about him, but it appears
•pretty plain to me, that he thinks of her. — -- She
is, at present, too young to be Serious upon these Subjects— — is, you know, naturally lively to excess;; — to confess the truth, lord Woburn is, I apprehend, her favourite : a thousand inadvertencies on her Side, are conclusive confirmations of my
conjeslures. -- He must have also, undoubtedly, ^
perceived her prtpcsrelfions in his favour, as he has
a large Share of penetration. -- However, he treats
her with all the casy, good-natured freedom of a brother.
But I must lay down my pen, or I Shall grow a very tiresome correspondent. — We cannot always help dwelling too long on topices which are particularly pleasing to us; but we ought, whenever we enter ’ upon Such topics, in the epistolary way, to watch, the motions of cur pens, that we may not gratify ourselves at the expense cf the patience of our friends.
.adieu,
Charlottb mord eafs
i
I
0
© let
n 1 o 1 w K I r
f •
t * '
LETTER: LIV
* t ■ '
.. J *
loriiwobupvn to Mr. Wilmot.
SINGE I have been aitured that lady Charlotte ' is the .dear delicate creature I always hoped
to 'find her, I am become as Light as air. 1 really
never, was compiefelj happy, till I was S'ensthle of this cjlarming woman’s ten, demefs, and that her
jiffection for me was as pure as it was ardent.
‘thoroughly convinced of the purity ofher love, as w.dll as the ardour of it, my min d is no Ion ger disturbed with doubts, and tortured with fuipicions. I therefore behave to her quite 'in another manner; which will, I hope, remove all her apprehensions feoncerning me, and indpce her to place Some confidence ill ' me. — sshe is already much more easy than ilie was in my company, and more inclined to allow me ail reasonable freedoms, as She finds that I do not abuie them.
[. Things are, through my care atid activity, in great forwardness towards the completion of my happiness—
— Settlements, cc. are preparing. -- -- -- -- --
I'offer carie blanche — Sire modestly framed objections to Such a proceeding; Mr. Elliot, as her gurdian and friend to us both, compromised matters between us.
— Yet the dear creature tells me, L am too disinterested; but I Say not. — I would never marry the woman whom J could not tiust with all my fortune.
-- -- -- Do I not put a far greater confidence in lady
Charlotte ?^ -- is not her own honour, as well as |
mine, of more consequence, infinitely of more consequence, than a few paltry thousands?? — her, all the money in. the universe would not give me a moment’s joy; with her, and a Sufficiency for
her I
L O R D V O B U R N. 147
her convenience, I Shall be amply provided for.
Poor Ned absolutely Straitens himself to find Supplies adequate to lady louisa’s vans;; is a moll
extravagant, voluptuous little toad. -- -- y\s I was
obliged to be cool to her, I have lately been out of her favour -- -- but I could not refuse ned’s importunities,
who dotes upon this idol, to See her dance the other day; he made a kind of a ball, and as he and his wife have been to visit lady Charlotte, with, my Sister and Sir George, he Sent cards to lady Charlotte and her friends for this entertainment; Sire honoured him with her presence, and Kitty down tonne was our party.
Lady Charlotte, who knows that I am not a great dancer, excufi; d herself, by Saying, that She was Scarcely recovered from her late illness. — Lady louisa danced an allemand with colonel Striker; had She been my wife, ihe should have had her feet cut osi'.
-- -- Never were there mcie charming and inviting
attitudes, consequently very improper ones for married women. -- -- No woman, indeed in my opinion,
but a profesfed stage dancer, Slrould attempt to excel
in an allemand. -- -- She who has a design to make
her fortune, and who imagines She Shall carry her point, by Sliewing her person in an alluring light, is certainly in the right to Study this dance with the nicest attention, for no dance is better calculated to premote the tender passion between the Sexes; but a woman who has been modestly educated, and who thinks as She ought, Mill never wish to be admired in public, for attitudes which can Serve only to excite the loofest ideas. — It would disgust me in the highest degree, to See my Sister or daughter clasp a nian in her arms, to whom Sire was an utter Stranger, and be clasped by him in return. -- -- But if my
’voife Slrould attempt to take Such monstrous liberties, or to admit of them, I believe I Should go dis trafted. -- Lady Charlotte has not discovered the
xjl A o JL K I r j
\
»
• least propensity that way; but Kitty Dovrnton, after we got home, gave a lively, and not an un 5
graceful jump, and said She fancied She could Soon j
learn the attitudes which She had.seen. |
“Fie, Kitty !” replied my dear Charlotte. j
, “Were I your father or guardian, ” Said I, “those ■arms Should be pinioned down, and those legs tied j together, to prevent your exposing yourself in that preposterous manner.”
The poor girlcoloured, T— — -- -- -- really brieve She
meant no harm, but Spoke merely from the liveliness i of her temper. After having clapped her hands to her face for a few moments. Sire ran to me, and, with a pleasing naivete, cried, “Pray, my lord,,
don’t think amiss of mer- -- -- -- -- -- I did not;
intend to say anything improper; but 1 always loved exercise, and I have heard you declare a hundred times,. that dancing was very proper for .young people.” '■.......!
“Aye, .child, ’’ replied I, laughing at her Simplicity, “under prudent regulations it may be very i wholesome, for aught I know; but I cannot approve of all kinds of dances, nor do I think that dancing after .marriage, is at all necessary for any woman.” I
“I may dance then in a prudent manner a long; while, for I am sure I slran’t be married.?
“Why So ?” replied lady Charlotte.
You have not made a vestal vow, surely, t Kitty ?” added I. _ 1
“No, my lord, ” answered She blushing, “but I shall be very nice in my man; and if it.is not proper j for me to dance an allemand, I Should not choose, I methinks, a man who would dance one with any I
body elfe.” _ 1
“Sir Charles Conyers, my dear Kitty, ” replied I,
“will endeavour to make himself agreeable to you j
in every respect,,
“pslraw I :
“Phaw I [turning away her face] how you love to rally ie my lord, — But you Vvill See, that with all' yout sense and penetration, you may be mistaken.. Sir Charles is my Superior, indeed, in point of fortunh, but I would not marry a king if I did not love him.
Noble Sentiments, Jack, in a girl of fifteen! -- --
Is She not worthy of my charlotte’s friendsliip -- --
You See the esfe£ts of good education — What an amiable innocent this girl is! ’ She may be made an
excellent woman. -- -- ^but it is a thousand to one if '
Sire is not Spoilt strst. -- Under my Charlotte’;;.
tuition, it 13 true sl'ic vi^culd, certainly improve, yet I Slrould not chuse to have her live witn us : She ■ would draw a train of fellows after her. — ^ — besides, a man and his wife do better by themselves how many famous disferences have I known to a rise, merely from the interposition of a third person!!
-- -- -- Siich person Should I choose in my family.
-- T must lock'slrarp’ aster Mrs: Dawson;; is Something in that woman very particular •, Sire casts glances at me with a meaning in them, which I am in no humour to comprehend at present 7^ — ^^posiibly, tvhen 1 have been married a iittle while, J may begin to grow less rigid; yeti dare believe, that if my Charlotte continues to be the amiable woman She is, •
I Shall not bfestow a thought' on any other -- -- -- -- a
Woman true to'her hushand is So rare a creature, that though Sire barely does her' duty. Sire is infinitely Superior to the majority of her neighbours; and he must be an unreasonable man, indeed who complains ’ of his lot with such a companion
Kitty, Downton, may, I firmly believe, be made a good wife, for She is ani exceeding good girl at present— — vas so hurt by what I said to her about the allemand, that She came running to me the first ume I happened to be alone, and begged me '
G 3 not
.lj.j.ojlvyinxwr
\ i
not to imagine Sire had the leasc desire to learn that '
O
dance, nor any other which I did not approve of.
.T, child! You know I have nothing to do with ycur education; your mother and Mrs. Elliot must take ciire of that
‘‘ Well, but I am sure that neither of them will desire itie to learn what does not .meet with your approbation, as they are both fenstble, how great a ' judge you are of the propriety of behaviour in women; therefore, mv lord, I Should be exceedln^; -. iicoijiiged to you., if you would give them a hint I xipon this subject j
Flattering little hustey !-1 took her in my arms; I
und just as I was constderlng whether I Should kifs her for her compliment or not, Sir Charles Conyers came in. -- --
“Here, Sir Charles, ” said I reslynin^ her to him,
IS the best and most amiable of girls ^ take her upon mv recommendation, and use her as kindly as ihe deferves.’’
Sir Charles caught her, stand went to prests her to his bostom; but stlie broke hastily from him, and with a reproachful glance at me, yet looking at the same time, as if She was loth to be angry, cried, 5 ‘‘ hiw^coistd ycudofo, my lord
Why stioiild you be angry with lord Woburn, my cliarniing Kitty, ’’ said Sir Charles, ‘‘ he could [ not have given you to a man who Vvstli love you better than I iliallst^
lam never angry with lord Woburn, ’^ replied the pretty gypsy, bridling with resentment at him, | ‘‘ it is you who are to blame, for taking feriouoy I
what he meant only in jestst^ I
Lord Woburn is happy, Mists Dovv.dton, in bei ing so highly in your favour I
Lady Charlotte at tsiat moment came in — I fiew 1 to her, and left than to make up their little quarrel by themselves.
LET j
: M
XV W W ^
###### e #•# #§# §## # # §# # #####•#
t E T T E st LV
From the Same to the Same.
WE are in the greatefc confusion — Poor Ned!
His lady Louiia, his wife -- -- What a devil"!
'— has been caught in bed with her hairdresser!! — I feel for my brother, who had not the least Sulpiciqn of Such, an iasrraous proceeding 1 He was ever indeed a doting fool..
■ While I was makiiiy" Some Severe Striftures ayainst
O O'
uxoriousness, even in the presence of my future, t’other day, Mrs. Elliot exclaimed, “Bless me, ray lord, can a man love his wife too veil.?.?
“madam; if he i; So far blinded by his pallion for her, as to fusier her to injure hi honour and her own by her' indiscreet conduct, he certainly loves her too. well — ^periiaps I ihould.rather say too much.” — Bux to my Story.
This wanton toad, it Seems, had behaved in Such a manner, before her Servants,, that they Sufpected her for Some time tliev were all attached to northwest brother who was one of the belt ofmaster's; and s.nith who waits upon him, having aii afieition for Mrs. mastora, my lady’s woman, was infoimed by her how things went. — — He, therefore, immediately acquainted Ned with the disagreeable, intelligence, adding, “Sit. Perle, lir, is at this very instant with Lady Louisa.”
My brother' was at firsl incredulous; he was So unwilling to believe the information he had received, that, instead of going to surprise the rascal, he began to Swear at Smith, for daring to mention his lady in So injurious a way, threatening to turn him into the Street,
G 4 Smith,
XX X X VIX X VI

I
Smith, knowing how much he idolised her, wait v ed patiently, till his fury was abated, and then told him, “that he had lived too long with him, and had been too well Satisfied with his Situation, to think of
making him uneasy for nothing. -- -- -- -- My lady. Sir, ”
added he, “has given the Strongest proofs of her infidelity j and I Should not deserve to live with so good a master, if I concealed what I have heard and seen” ”
with the steady tone in which he fpokc the last words, poor Ned could no longer refuse credit to what had been communicated. -- -- -- -- -- “Follow
me, ” said he, trembling, “follow me to my wifes apartment.” '
smi h followed at a distance;.
Poor Ned, petrified with horror and furprise, called aloud for help;
Smith hurried into the room to the aslistance of his master, but found' him only sunk down upon
the bed, without sense or motion. -- -- -- -- The faithful
fellow placed him in a chair, and gave him some of my lady’s cordial, which always stood upon the
dresiing table. -- -- It was a good while before he
came to himself— — his recovery, he charged Smith not to say a word about the affair, but to send for me..
I hastened to him. — T found him pale, considerably agitated, and exceedingly out of order.
He made a Sign with his hand for me to Sit down.
With some dishculty he brought out, “My wife, my louisa, on whom I so fondly doted, is gone;
She has left me for as vile a fellow as crawls upon, the face of the earth j the lowest of all rascals the villain who drestes her hair. — I have just caught
them together. -- -- -- While I stood, confounded with
amazement, he jumped out of the window,, and she ran out of the room/’
can'
vy ixv vy o IN. ili
can hardly tell you what reply I made to the
poor fellow. -- -- 1 could not without deviating from
i truth, say that I was surprised at the very disagreeable discovery, as I never, you know, liked lady lou ifa’s manners; but I was aiftually both Shocked and grieved at finding my brother duped by a designing! devil. — — I endeavoured to comfort' him, by say!
! “I thought’ he'was happy in having so fair i an opportunity to get rid ofher.” i “You talk, ” replied he, Shaking his head, “as if you had never loved.”
“Hhd I loved tomadnefs, ” anfweted I, “such I behaviout would certainly have cured me.” j A deep Sigh was the only reply he vas capable of making.' But I hope he v/illget over this disappointment, when time has a little inured him to it.
I In CD N T I N ua.di O N. --
My whole timeis taken up between Ned and lady Charlotte. — My poor brother is almost distradted. — • he talks of nothing but his Louisa, and of the tenderness She had always expr essed for him— — ’ convinced hirii so thotoughly of her firm attachment to him; — ihe fays', that he took little or no notice of ' her conduct, indulging her in all her most extravagant desires — His indulgence was carried to a very imprudent height y for it made her quit e wanton ’ wit’n her unlimited power over him, and drove her
to the raost ungrateful return imaginable for it- -- '
however is better in health, and time may do w’onders.
My Charlotte has behaved with a ' delicacy and tenderness to me upon' this occasion, ' which have prodigiously endeared meto her. — How very, very different is She from the greatest part ofher sex, who love to exult over a fallen Sister, as if their own virtue was strengthened by the weaknestes of ano
G 5 there i
there! -- How erroneous a way of chinking f How
much more amiable are those, who, charitably allowing for the frailties of human nature — frailties
from which no human creature is exempt -- -- are
more ready to pity, than insult the unhappy wanderers from the paths of discretion and virtue.
Little Kitty is wondersully insinuating upon this occasion. — She Sees me uneasy and dejedted. — I must Seel for Ned. — iiesldes, a disappointment of suclsa nature, is enough to Set any man thinking, who is going to enter into the most Solemn engagements with any woman. — I have no doubts, indeecs, with regard to Charlotte — neither had Ned any concerning Louisa- -- -- ^ -- then he was foolishly in love
-- -- -- possibly So am I. -- When a man is paffiorr
ately fond of a wonian, he Scarce knows what he is about. — Love absolutely deprives us of our senses. — After all my precautions, Wilmot, I Sear that lam no wiser than other men.
LETTER LVI
Lady Charlotte Morden, to Mrs. Blomer.
I HAVE been exceedingly distrested upon lord woburn’s account, my dear friend j he has sussered So much for his brother, that I have pitied him extremely.
Mr. v/oburn has had a Sever. — His mind has hern greatly disturbed by Some domestic affairs, which have hurt his health, and required all the consolation his fiierds could administer to him. — Yovt cannot think how much lord woburn’s anxiety about his brother, and concern for him, has raised him in my esteem. — By that concern, and that anxiety 0
W XV ^
xiety, he curcovers an excellent heart, ansi Induces me to believe, that I Shall run no sort of rlsk i by venturing my happiness in his hands. —;! always iinap'ined that a Vood fon, a good' brother, ani a good friend, would most ' probably make a good busband to the woman' of his choice, anst I ’ dare say I Shall not be mistaken— — did lojd Wob'urii appear To amiable ill my 'eyes ^ never did my heart j feel so fmcere an affe£lion for him. — The woman who could deceive him must be abandoned indeed.
• — Kitty Downton h, iil my opinion, a sweet girl?
— She certainly loves him. — She looks on hiiii with so i much compaslion, and fetches such sighs, that I some i times fear he will read what pasfes in her little heart,
i A few days ago we were all three Sitting together.
• — I was trying to divert my lord', that he might net refleo; too deeply upon what, would only increase I his difqulet. — He was leaning ori'the back of rhy chair listening to me. — Poor kitty’s eyes, after having rambled frorri one to t’other, at last fixed on. him — A heavy stall biirst frorn her, whifch fouzfed my lord. — He threw hirrrself forward, locked in pier face, and cried, f‘ what’s thc matter, Kitty ?” ' ■ '
I “I can’t tell, ” replied she; ' not little consufed,
I “but I am so low Spirited today, that I ain fit for nothing.”
“I am'sorry to hear you Say So, ” answered my ' lord,. “but you mustnot indulge your vaponrilh hu raour, child. — Get Up quickly, and goto ycur needle, your beck, or your harpsichord.’ *
“Indeed I would, replied She, in a plaintive tone,
“but Tam incapable of ehher playing, or working, as I Should do; and 1 have taken up.my book and thrown it down again twenty times, today.”
Poor girl, ” cried my lord, Smiling, .catching a, racket that lay on she table, — “Yoh are idle I am afraid J come, a little exercise will do you good'
'' way
'7.
♦ s. *' •
• • r
t
la j; u X vy rw I r
Away Hew the sliuttle cock and kitty’s vapours together.
Sir Charles Conyers, who certainly comes after her, soon afterwards entered the room. — Taking up another racket, hc/proposed to me to make a party. —.
Before I could get out a refusal, lord Woburh hastily Sitting down by me, said“ “Sir Charles, if you are inclmed to divert yourself, I restgn miss downton.”
Kitty, offended at this Speech, turned’ away her face, and burst into tears.
“Heyday I what’s the matter now, ” cried' my lord, while Sir Charles' endeavoured, in the gentlest terras to soothe her; — but his esforts were un fuccessfuh She retired to her own apartment,
“Surely, ” said lords Woburn to me, “I have »ot mentioned anything to make her uneasy? pur pofely, I am certain, I have not. — She ha good na tured, amiable girl, and f stiould. be lorry to have her stippwfe F had any intention to disconcert her.”
Sir Charles looked exceedingly Serious. -- -1 wanted
to bring Kitty to herself, but had no mind to leave the two gentlemen togethei'i however as I could not suppose that they had the least reason to be of fendest with each other, I ventured upstairs, and gave a hint to poor Kitty, whom I Sound still weeping, that a construction might be put upon her behaviour,, different from what stie had thought of, if Ihe did not appear with her usual chearfulness padding, to give a turn to her Sorrow, that lord Woburn had expresied Some concern, lest he Should have Said anything to offend her,
“Has he .?” replied stre, “, T will go then and af sure him to the contrary; “I would not have hini displeased with me for the world.”
“Well, ” answered, I, “and are yon not equally solicitous about Sir charles’s good opinion? He is a very pretty gentleman.”
Ah I
L W K la VV LI ts U K in.
“Ah! my lady’, ” said She, with an arch look, and a half frni'le, “would you change the one for the other? No, no — you know better;
I made no answer, but leading her into the parlour, said“ “gentlemen, I have brought this lady to’ receive your acknowledgments • for what I you did to displease her.”
I “Tam afraid, ” replied Sir Charles, ' “that I am frequently So unhappy as to give offence, when T really wish to be particularly pleasing but if anything I can say, ” added he, approaching Kitty with a respectful tenderness which seemed to aitonish her beyond expression“ “procure my pardon, Mils' Bownton, L am ready to make the belt attempt In my power for the obtaining of it.”
Kitty looked quite abasiied — — To relieve her,!
S slid“ “my dear, Sir charles'’s apology b; sufficient“
“isalldver, now, ” cried she^holding out her and to lord Woburn, who had not indeed uttered a Syllable toher. ^ i — ^hc' took her hand, but immediately presenting it to Sir Charles- -- Charles kisfedit with transport— — ^ — drew it back, and fixed her eyes upon my lord.' — what’s the matter, Kitty, ” said hcj advancing, wsth a smile“ “wc not friends .?”
“I hope so, ” replied' She, Sighing, “bijt — i — but“
“what, ?” answered my lord, ' hastily, taking her hand with a look full of pity, drawing .her neareir to him at the same time, and giving her a modest kiss, — “there now, are you satisfied with me ?”
“Nay, ” interrupted Sir Charles, “if nothing less will ensure the lady’s pardon to you, .mylord, may not I hope for the same indulgence .?” following my lord’s example. *
Poor kitty’ksace glowed. — She went to the other end of the room, and sat down.
Sir
sir Charles soon went after her, and so affidaoufly
f » ^ ^
tried to render himself agreeable, that Hie began, I thought, to look on him with more chear.dinefs. —
There is really ibmetliing winning in his manner; t
wish he may succeed- -- -- -- know a young
person who has a better heart than Miss Downton,
OI who is more capable of making a good wife; and I Sincerely hope that She will not be spoilt, when She becomes more acquainted with the world, no advantai^eous fchocl for handforne ^ir!s. i have been praising Kitty highly, to my lord; and hein return, has laviilied so many fine panegyrics on me, that, to tell you the truth, I begin to fear he has a better
opinion of me than I .deserve- -- -- -- wlia, indeed,
to be the very creature he describes, my dear friqnda
-- -- — If he should, after all,, be disappointed, what
will, become of me? — ^ — My love for him is, I feel, much Stronger than I imagined it was.
your’s unchangeably.
C H A R L O T r £ Ivl O R D E N,
LETTER lvil.
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot,
r ** * • <.
HOW dlstradted is my fituailon! — I take up my pen to tell you my feelings but.l knew not how to deferibe them. -- — ^mowever, as you are the only friend I have in the world, 1 will try to inform you of an event, which has made me fupreinely wreiched. ^
You. well know to what a degree of dotage I loved lady Charlotte. — I could not exist without feeing,
hearing, touching her. -- -- -1 cannot at this present |
•, though I. am .baniiiied — ^-: — justly |
banislied from her fli^iit for ey.dr -- r t slt 1
* -. 0-... T - i,. V I
I
J i
rs impossible to go on. — That refle(tion unmans me.
■ — Oh! Wilmot, Wilmot, never was I so happy as yefter(iay. — I hasj been with her from the morning : many little matters were to be adjusted preparatory to the happy day — A day I Shall now never see. — -
Yet I will not give her up -- -- No— — have her pro
I nfife, and She Shall bq mine. — But where was I? — -
j Irecolledl. -- -- -- How blest was I froiiv the morning
I to the evening! How delicately tender was her be i havlour tome! Never had She looked so very lovely,
S never had sthe been so induls; ent. — Yet I had a tor menting iiead ach, which every now and then cruelly damped the fatisfachon I felt in her company. — * Sometimes, from excess of pain, I looked leriousj and, I suppose, ill, for the dear creature asked me so many questions, expressed so much tender concern, when I acquainted her with my complaint, and offered so many remedies -- -- -- -- when we were by
ourselves after dinner, fly permitted me to rest my weary head upon her Sliouider), that I grew giddy vsith delight, and recovered my health, purely, I believe, from the flow of spirits which her kindness
gave me. -- -- -- - — Yet I never once offered to take
any improper advantage ofher pity — her love, let
me say. -- -- -- -- — Sure ot her heart, and convinced
that She would undoubtedly resent ai y indiscreet • I contented myfelt with thole alone, which her modesty allowed me. — While 1 was thus happy in her dear society, a note was brought to me from your brother, informing me of his arrival in England
-- -- He desired to see me immediately. — Glad to
hear he was come I sent word that I would be with him in an hour. — The hour arrived — but I could not tear myfeif from my Charlotte — though ihe now and then repulsed me in the midst ot my endearments, with a charming smile, crying, You have torgpt your friend, my lord.’’
I had, indeed, forgot him, and you, and all
the world. -- -- -1, therefore, spent die ume, in which
I had
I had promised td meet Harry with my mislress, my' friend, my all.
At Supper I was not yet recovered enough to eat -- but Sat by; her while She Supped, arid had the high Selicity of being tempted by her to taste everything
which She thought particularly exce’ient -- -- -
At last She urged me So earnestly to go to my fr end, that I rdse, beiievin’gislie wished' td retire, pr: fled her sost hand to my lips, and left her — reludta'ntly.'
I met your brother at the Star and Garter, — He ' rallied me for being only three hours after my time. — I apologised ■ sot’having been So tardy, ' by telling hirii fairly the truth; and having my heart arid head full of love, talked away till harry was, I plainly Saw, almost tifed of me'. — I then proposed to Separate for the night. — It was between one and two. — We walked together to his' lodgings, which were just by.
Just at that instant I was Seized with an unac ' countable propensity to step into St. james’s Square, ■ though I hast but'so lately lest it; — I could not hin ■ my feet from carrying me 'to the' very Spot which iriclosed all that my eyes delighted to gaze on, alt ‘ my Souk held dear. — While I stood with folded arms, looking up at her window, I put'up an ardent prayer' for her protection and Safety. — Just as I was, with iiriwihing, lingering steps, turning homeward. — ^
I heard lady charlotte’s door unlock, and Saw a woman’s head out at the window. — She appeared to be’ Dawson, arid instantly a man who, by the light of the lamps, 'Seemed genteel and weli drested, came up, and went in. — ^ ^the door vas going to be closed aster him — ^ithen, rouzest by jealousy, and agitated with a thousand ideas, rushed in after him. — dawson, confounded with guilt and astonishment, was
struck dumb. -- -- -- The man stared at me — I stared
at him, -- -- -- Impatient to know t” e meaning of this
strange affair, I alked ''i' buflness there. dawson
full of corifttlion, lliook with apprehension, and Said,
“He
im
JL U K U W U o U R N; l6j
“He is my brother, my lord, whom I have not Seen a great while. — Do, ” continued She to him, with a
beseeching tone, do leave me nowi” — -- -- -- -- -- He
made no reply, but with a Surly air flung out of the house.
As Soon as I had got rid of my gentleman — for a gentleman he really was — > — fliocked to death at this woman’'? proceedings, which were certainly infamous -- - — (you may remember I always suspedted
her, and detested the impudent fleer on her face.) — I alked her how long She had made a praitice osset- -- in fellows, after her lady was retired to rest, and turning the house into a brothel; — “but I am happy in having Sound yea out, Mrs, dhwson; added I, and you may be astured, I Shall Set this affair in a right light to lady Charlotte, ” - — She stood a moment with her eyes on the ground Sas if revolving what had jusi pasted; then looking up to me, as if She had an affair of the utmost consequence to commuhicate. — “Why then, ” replied She, “it must cut; and indeed it will be but adtiag an honest part by your ibrdfh’p, though I am Sorry to Speak amiss of my lady, but — - — — -” ’
“How !’ what !” interrupted I -- -- -- Shamefully
taken in by her artsut behaviobr — “What do you mean ?”
“I Say, my lordy” continued stie, malicious nend, “that L am not to blame; ™y Hsty v.?illsee gentlemen in private, I dare not disobey her orders.”
“What orders!” exclaimed 1- Sull of astonisti
ment and horror. -- -- “VV hat men! does lady Char
ibtte admit men privately of a night! By h -- n(. (.
a lie, an insamous lie.” ’
“To be Sure, my lord, ” replied the artful devil, “She. will not own it to your lordship,; and I hope you won’t think of mentioning it to her; I Shall be rained and undoti®, lose my place, nry character,
evei F
everything, If you do, pretending to squeeze cut a few tears.
‘‘ Your chara6ler must be infamous, and ycur place to the last (degree scandalous, if what you
mention is true -- -- But I canst believe you -- -- You
have certainly inventecf an abomiilalrle lie to excuse yourself, and iliall be expofesd to your lady tomorrow— — is too good to be thil^ (deceived; 'dnd her reputation may be injuied by this vile behaviour of yours.
‘‘ It is very well, my lord” ” The, you may think as you please ^ ruin is certain, be it which way it will; — but you will find, when too late, that had my lady been as innocent as I am, you would be too happy ’’
’sdeath! womanfhcricd I, tortured with madness, mention not your lady again, as you value your safety— — She is chaste.
You may then believe me so toa, for we are both the Same; and I beg ycur lordlliip will go, and take no notice of what ha'^pastedst^
Not take any notice !’’ cried I, do you imagine that I Shall be filent upon such a transaction as this } — No believe me, I will come to the truth of it, or peistni."’
“You will never know any more tlran what you do already said she, ‘‘ can you suppose that my lady will confess to ycur lordsliip, that fly prefers another man to you — Site knows better — No, my lord, She wist lay the blame on me, and I stiall be turned out — and you will make it up with her la dyinipst’
I Villi go to the devil first, cried transported with fury, but where is your lady
In her bed, my lord— — ^ -- -- Should frie
be
‘‘ Show me to her immediately, ” cried I, with aaimpaiieuce which discovered how little capable I
was
was of making use of my reason— — me to her — If stie a(iauts other men, sstc may as well receive me.’’
She hesitated a moment; Site loolced terrihed and Sail of perplexity, while I continued raving like a lunatic, — Show me to her this instant.'’
On one condition, my lord; Swear to me,
that you will not name me In this aitalr. -- I know
your lordihip's honour, and may depend upon h.” Honour !” replied I, Is there any honour in
keeping a promise with such wretches as you --
Conduct me to her, or by all that’s Sacred (laying my hand upon my fwcrd) I will not answer for the consequences.”
She made no reply, but went up stairs— — followed. -- -- -- You may guess hi what an agitation of
fpints. — But I cannot write any more at present— — head turns round, my — my pen drops from my hand.”
ID CONTINUATION.
I followed this cursed devil up stairs— — took a key cut ofher pocket, opened a door which led to her lady’s dresung room — a room I well knew; — and pulling a candle into my hand instantly disappeared.
With hasty trembling steps I pursued my way to another door, which led, I riatiirally imagined, to
her bedchamber- -- -- was not mistaken -- -- But,
good h -- -- n! how Shall I defcribve what I felt at
the sight of her. — She was the very Image of puility, - — Her whole appearance was perfectly elegant —
and delicate. -- However to proceed — if I can. — •
"T he lovely creature was half raised in her bed, and with a look, which declared both astonilhiiient and. fear, cried, who’s there. ?”
Perceiving
AXXO 1 KA IN J. V
Perceiving plainly that I was thfe intruder, by the ' light in my hand, as well as by a lamp in the chimney, she coloured, and exclaimed -- -- - “Lord Woburn,
heaven defend me !” — Then, in Sober accents — “what’s the matter? how came you here ?”
No matter how I came here, ” replied I, Setting down the candle upon the table, advancing to the bedside, and going to clasp her in my arms, “here • Istm, my'charming Charlotte, and 1 will give you ■ no reason to repent of your disappointment ”
“Gracious I” cried the dear innocent
creature, Starting from my arms'all trembling with terror, “what is the reason of this? O leave me, leave me! or I will alarm the house, and call So? those who will oblige you to go.”
“As to that, my Sweet creature, ” Said I, gating on her charming neck and bosom uncovered, while fire was beautifully disordered, “Nobody will hear ■ you: conipose yourself, therefore, a little, for I am come to talk with you; ”
“Is this a time and place to talk with me .?” cried She, Srightened even to tears, which Stood trembling in her - lovely eyes j “How could lcrd« Woburn, who Slrould he my friend and protestor, the guardian of my person and character, think ot endangering both, by breaking into my apartment at this hour ot the night? — Oh!! rae, leave me, I conjure you: ” added She, pitshing away my hands, which had Seized her’s, “I will not talk to • you, I will not listen to you now'j you cannot expert I Slrould.” '
“Yes, ” replied I, ' Sitting down in a chair hy her ' bedside“ “do insist upon your hearing me now. uawson, your woman is an insamous devil j— — * She has not only her own incontinence to answer for, She has accused you'of receiving men into your chamber at night. One of them I just now Saw let in by her who came to either her 'Or you.”
***' And '
II — .^ w f ^ ^ ^ »
I
I
'** And can you give.credit tors) Scandalous and So Salfe a .charge, my lord !” replied the dear angel, Still in a violent terror, “but be that as it vtill ^ leave me now— — will .vindicate mysels sufficiently I tomorrow— — what a dreadful, what a groundlefe
i, accusation is this !” continued She, risin., up, trembling, and looking about for the tastel of her bell, which I had, upon ray sirr letting; go her j hand, twistcd in Such a manner abo rt the back of
I the chair, that She copld hardly reach it. -- -- -- -- -
‘ I am now Sensible how wrong my behaviour was, — I deserve to be punished 5 — yet not quite So rigo
j roufly, I think, Wilmot. -- -- -- -- Why did She look So
'beautifully tempting.? — I caught her again Saft in my arms, and ravished a thousand melfing kistes.
. — This was going too Sar I confess — but I became too rnuch intoxicated to be checked by reflection,
I — She then Screamed vvith Such violence, that one
I of the menservants very Soon came hurrying down I stairs, and called at the door to know what was the matter.?
Oh! Johnr — open the door — break open the door,
'— Call dawson, Martha, susan.”
“Heavens! madam, ” cried I, hals restored to my reason, “be Silent, or you vyill expose us both.”
“I will raise the dead, besore I will susser Siich insolence.”
I was Struck with these words; -- -- -- -1 could not
determine what to Say or do; full of ernbarastment, and uncertain who was in the right, She or her woman. -- -- -- 1 concluded, indeed, the latter must be a
jade; yet was hurt by what I had Seen, and Still more pained by my own impetuous behaviour, of which I instantly repented— — was also horribly a sliamed of being thus exposed to the Servants, who, undoubtedly believed, that I was on the point of committing a rape upon their mistress. — But by her dear Self I Swear, 1 never harboured So vile a design. —
distraded,
I DO IT 1 O 1 CL K X w
distraged, abaflied, embarrasted to the greatest degree — I hung my head, and began to Slammer cut Something about Dawson, by way of apology', while the Servants Stood ftarin? at me, and as much surprised, I believe, at the light of me, as I was displeafed at their appearance. — My angel continued to insift upon my leaving the house.
Thoroughly convirced of her unfulllcd virtue, hy her every look, word, and action, I threw myfeif on my knees by the fide of the bed, related all that had pasted between me and Dawson, and called heaven and earth to witness, that I had no sinister intentions whatever.
She seemed to listen to me eagerly, yet with a vlfible iir.datierce to have me leave her.
J
Just when I was going to finish my relation,
Well, str, ” said stie, interrupting me “and after ■my woman had de.hvered these faiiehocds about me, what inducement could you posiibly have to break
into my apartment -- -- -- IS ycu thciight me guilty,
you could not Imagine me in the least to be v/cnhy of voiir notice; and, if innocent, you acted cruelly to alarm me in this boisterous manner.”
No fatlsfacfory reply could I make to this address to me, while stte was furrcunded by her people. — Yetiftill defended the purity of my Intentions. — • adding, I will no longer disturb you madam — but I will write every particular of an event which has given me the stiarpeft anxiety I ever knew, for ycur perufah — ^ — An event which will render me wretched for life, unless you will cendefeend to pardon me. — I have been stiamefully indiscreet, I have been hardly in my lenfesst’
She returned no answer, but seemed anxiousty de firoiis to have me remove myfeif from the light of those j^iieauties, which had so much inflamed me.
I vtent home, and wrote a more particular account than I could verbally communicate of my rencontre
'r
centre with Dawson, fr<dely owning that the suspicions which She hdd iniufesd into my mind, made me eager to see with my ov/n eyes, whether there was a fushcient foundation for them. — I concluded with assuring her, in the strongest terms, that I very sincerely repented the rafti behaviour, which 1 the most violent and mosh unreasonable jealousy had j occasioned; and that 1 never should be able to exist without her,
I cannot go on. — I am far from being well. — ^ Harry is kind enough to come and sit with me often - — But what is fbeie y? What are friends? I have madly deprived myfeif of the friendsliip of -- O!! pity me.
# % ■§ # # # § § # # § § # # # i # # # #■ § # # § •#
L E T T E R lvni.
From the same to the same.
ipveceived no answer to my letter, nor to many others which Idifpalched to the same purpose.
I waited on Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, and tedd thenh all that I had written to lady Charlotte; I entreat them also, in the most presling terms, to intercede for me. — They received me civilly; but informed me, that my behaviour could not posiibly be defended. — I could .Dot expect much to be Said in my behalf, yet I perfiftedin begging them to persuade their amiable friend, to try me once more; and as I could not think of giving up all my hopes of spending my life with the most valuable woman I know — > topardon~to receive me.
They
They gave me no encouragement— — “” Said Mrs. Elliot, “though culpable, has consested 'her own guilt. — She has declared that the man whom you followed into the house, was a lover of her’s, whom She has let in every night for Some time; but that being certain you would inform her lady of what you had discovered, She had, in her first Sright and consufion, thought of accusing her lady to Save herself; adding, that as sie believed a breach would most probably be made between you by complying with your request, to be conduced to her lady’s chamber, She delivered up the key of the passage which led to her dresting roora, through which She always went into her chamber in a morning — Her chamber door opening on the ftair .casc, She every night hastened herself.”
Thus have I rendered myself compleately miserable by my own Solly; and yet, Wilmot, 1 do think that any man circumstanced ns I was and and as thoroughly acquainted with the wickedness of women as I have been, would have Selt a Strong desire to Satisfy his curiosity in the manner I did— — have a thousand arguments to urge in Savour of a conduct to which I was irresiltibly impelled. — But I Sincerely wislr that! had behaved in a very different way upon the occasion— — find myself much indisposed. — • I have a violent pain in my head. — I Sancy I am going to be extremely ilk — No matter if I die, — Life without Charlotte is not jn the least desirable,
LET
LETTER LIX
'. k
Lady Charlotte Morden to
Mrs, Blomer.
YO U have received, my dear friend, from Mrs.'
Elliot, a particular account of the Strange and Shocking behaviour of lord Woburn., - — I was not capable of writing at that time— — have been, indeed, disordered ever Since, — No wonder — I am rather Surprised that I have been able to get over it So well hut my .astonisliment and indignation prevented me from Sinking into my former tenderness for this unworthy man. — My thorough deteltation of Such behaviour, So unjustifiable a behaviour, has hitherto Saved me, and I hope will Still Save me. — It is a thousand pities that a man So valuable in every other res pe£t, Slrould behave So improperly to women!
Poor Kitty Downton cries, and Says that dawson, and nobody but Dawson, isto blame. — One cannot, however, enter into a conversation upon this Subject with Such a girl. — dawson is, undoubtedly highly culpable, and I immediately dismisted her.
I also carefully examined all the other Servants; and having great reason to suspedt one of the house maids of being in the Secret, turned her away. — > How miserably has dawson acted for herself! How • very mnch, hew irreparably, perhaps,, has She injured me I -- -- And yet, I ought, it may be, rather to
rejoice at my Situation., than lament it, — A man of lord woburn’s principles could never make me happy; — have I not, therefore, had a narrow escape i'rom him.?
I
tjr
I have nothing to do now, but to Sit down for the lemainder of my hse out, of the reach of man, - if '
possible— — this Shocking adventure is public
and there was no concealing it — I Slrall certainly be Sufficiently tormented with proposals; but were I not absolutely determined to listen to no overtures whatever,, lord Wurburn cannot Soon be forgotten.
-- -- He will be remembered — but remembered he
must be only with — regret. — Why, why was Such a map, my dear Mrs. Blomer, • So lost to honour — • but;! must try to Sorget: him. — Will you not be ready after the perufai of this, toopity your unsortunate friend? — I, am indeed, at this' moment, truly unhappy. • ' •
>
ocharlotte Morden.
I >
L S. I have, not returned answers to any of the ..letters which I have received from lord Wo. hum. — They only contain apologies, with very ■ little variation, repeated. ^he has been with Mr. and Mrs, Elliot, to prevail on me to pardon him; at least to See him,, to hear him — ■
but I believe you know me too well. they
Said nothing to bias me one way or the other. ythere is no talking, indeed upon Such a
■ Subject. — " — ■ ■" — “1 •
. • ■. ^^ • *
''.
• ' 1
^ - y - .I -:.
V E ^ ' • S'’'
L E 1'
^ 1 * T ^ *
L E T T E R LX
From the Same to the Same.
I A M very much distatisfied, even with your sister, my dear Mrs. Blomer; She will fancy that I am melancholy, and teases me So much to go into company, by way of amusement, that She distrestes me. -- -- -- -1 can receive no pleasure from being the object of general observation, — Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, indeed, both tell me, that the more I appear in public, the less will any Scandalous tales, circulated by the basenefs of dawson about me, be credited.
But am I not Secure in my own innocence? -- -- -- -- -
besides, is not my lord’s earnestness to be Sorgiven, to be received upon the Sormer Sooting, an indisputable proof of my innocence .?■ — Had my conduu been criminal, would he have continued So restless to be reconciled? So eager to Sulfil his engagements.? His eagerness to s'ulsil them, has asfedled him to Such a degree, that he is at this time very ill of a Sever; not So bad, however, as to be hindered from writing.
He wrote yesterday to Mrs. Elliot, to desire her to persuade me only to pardon him, as his recovery was uncertain. — I hope he will not die, my friend j he has not So deeply osfended me, as to j wisli for his death; the amendment of his conduct will susficiently atone so.r the affront which I have received from him. — Let him live, but let him ever live at a distance from me.
My hand trembles So, that I lhar this will not be legible— — has never been Steady, I think, Since my Sright i nor, in truth, do I ever go to bed absolute
H z lyly
free from apprehensions, though I lock and bolt both my chamber doors — I hope I have now only lionest people about me; but indeed I always thought dawson So; She had, however, the art to impose upon me.^^how very cautious ought people to be whom they trust, and what Servants they take. Since the very best are So little to be depended upon! We Slrould at leasl never put ourselves too much in their power— — how uncomsortable is existence, is we must be always Slaves to suspicion — To have nobody near us whom we can trust, nobody on ■whom we can rely — What a miserable State! I declare to you, my dear friend, that I look upon the disposition and corruption among our domestics, to be Serious evils, and greatly detrimental to Society.
-- -- -- -- We must all, in Some Shape, depend upon
each other, for the comforts and conveniences of life; nor can the highest enjoy themselves — r — they cannot indeed subsistr — without the labour and attendance of the lowest.' — For my part, I don’t know anything which could have asfedted me more (the loss of my nearest relations and intimate frienda excepted) than this discovery of dawfon’s treacherous behaviour, as She was one of whom I had e ver a very high opinion; but I suppose She, like many of her thoughtless Sex in much Superior Situations, was .weak enough to listen to the tales.of a man who, in order to gratify his own licentious inr clinations, made her believe that he was violently in love with herr— — creature j lam afraid She
wili susser extremely for her credulity. -- -- -- -- Yet,
as much as Sire has injured me, I cannot See her rendered more unhappy, than She must necessa rily be, from the nature of her ossence. — 1 can never recommend her, indeed, .to another Samily, because I cannot answer for her integrity j but I will take care that She jliall not perl Sir through absolute want- -- -- will relieve her before it comes
t
^ ^ ^ XV X
to that, though Sire Shall not be acquainted with the hand which raises her from infamy and indigence, to competence and peace. — IHAVE employed a person to osser her a retreat in the country, far from the temptations which fire is every day liable to meet with in town. — 'this is all I can do to Save her from inisery who has destroyed mj happiness for ever.
LETTER LXI
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
5 HAVE just got Strength to hold my pen; — thanks to this divine Charlotte, who will, nevertheless, doom me to endless misery j but I must explain myself — if I can.
Scarce had I finished my last letter to you, when I was obliged to be put to bed, as I was in a high. Sever. — In a very Sew days I was judged to be in imminent danger, -- -1 retained my senses all thetirae,
and cannot Say that I felt much disquietude at the Sentence pronounced by my physicians very seriously, though they imagined I did not hear it, to my bro
I there and sister. -- -1 had, indeed, no concern about
my health, but for them who grieved for me Immoderately. — Their complaints pierced my heart, yet Iwas happy to have it in my power to Seize that opportunity to make ray peace with lady Charlotte. — • Your brother, Harry, Saw me every day, and acted the part of a real friend. — Him, therefore, I commi
H 3 fiioned
y XX X a X ^ X y.j X
Slioned to wait upon her, and to tell her, that as I had, posiibly, but a fewhoursto live, her pardon would be the greatest, t’ne only Satisfaction I was capable of receiving in this life. — Harry most readily undertook this businefs, and related his success in the following words. — But neither my hand nor my heart is Steady enough to go on — “I mvrst resume my pen bye and bye.
IM CONTINUATION.
I am a little recovered, So will proceed. —
“When I arrived in St, james’s Square, ” Said Harry, “I resused to send in my name, though the Servant asked me more than once, that he might tell his lady who wanted to Speak with her. — Let her know, ” replied I, “that a gentleman wislies to See her upon particular business, but has not the honour to be acquainted with her. — From her extreme caution, I was asraid that I Slrould not get at the Sight of
her. -- -- At last, however, Sire came down into the
parlour, accompanied by one of the sinest girls I ever
beheld. -- Lady Charlotte, with a mingled dignity,
and sweetness of aspedt, desired to know my business.
• — I replied, rather too abruptly, I believe, (though it was only with a view to Serve you, my lord) that I came from a dying friend, lord Woburn, who waited only for her pardon to quit the world, which, ‘srom the loss osher esteem, was grown odious to him, in peace. -- -- When I began to Speak, She was advancing
towards a chair, ‘ after having desired me to be Seated. -- But She Stopped Short, while I was Speaking,
changed colour, and Said, “Sir ?” I Saw that what I had Said operated -- ^ -- -1, therefore doubled
the dose— — “Say, madam, ” continued I,
“that
....
that my dear friend, lord Woburn, however cul“ “he may have appeared, or reailynisin his conduct, now lies at the point of death ^posiibly “he may not live to hear your determination about “him; • he may not live to hear whether you will or “will not pardon a behaviour of which nothing but'. “his ardent love for you could have made him guilty.” ^! was going on in the pathetic Strain'. ^ The blood instantly forsook her lovely face; Sire trembled alloverj and.sunk to the floor. — I flew to, raise her, to Support her, aslilted by that charming girl, who continued weping from the iroment I im^ ' parted my mournsul intelligence. — She called ^ aloud
for help. — The Servants entered. -- -- -- -1 carried lady
> Charlotte to a Soplia. -- -- -- aster numberless applications, She recovered. -- -- 1 then made a great
many excuses for having So abruptly declared, what I might have imagined would afseu her greatly. — > She made no reply. — Ina Sew moments; riling from the Sopha, She took her young friend by the arm, and walked up stairs, without Saying a Angle Syllable, though I made more than one essort to obtain an answer. — I Sent up to know if she grew better,
before I would leave the house. -- -- No reply came
from herself j yet I am Sure She was half killed vith
the news of your danger. -- -- -- She is, indeed, a rnosl
lovely creature.”
Here Harry finished his narrative, and I was convinced, from his description of her disorder, that I was Still dear to her. — I theresore began to conceive hopes — consequently to breathe more freely. -- -- -- By
the way, I could not have been in the danger declared by the doctors— — indeed, never thought me Sd. — What raised my Spirits Still more, was an tnqviry from the dear angel in about bals an hour?
a cordial
H 4
lyo H 1 S 1 O K Y O h
*
a cordial superior to all the medicines I hasd swallowed— — same inquiry was every half hour repeated, till I was able to quit my bed. — T have beea up these two days, but am, nevertheless, very indifferent. — Never Shall I be well, I believe, if ffio
does not forgive what is past. since my growing
I etter, her inquiries have ceafeid; I fear She will not be reconciled, as She has refused to see Harry a gain, who has cnilecd twice, at my request, to try to move hei in my favour. — I am so weary that I must break off — You cannot think how weak anid fpirit lels I am grown. — Lady Huxley wants me to try the air of Huxley Park, but I cannot Bear the thoughts of quitting London, while this dear injured woman Stays in k.
LETTER LXII
x.ady Charlotte Morden to Mrs. Blomer.
V
HOW excesiively have I been surprised, my dear friend! — But, indeed, though I am become accustomed to Sudden changes, I do not bear them well. — My fainting away on being told that lord Woburn was dying, is a Strong proos, I imagine, of this assertion. — I cannot help being affected, on his • account at this moment, though they asture me, that he has been out osdanger for Some time. — I do not pretend to be insensible, ncr can I forget the
hopes I once entertained of Spending the remainder
of
^ ■' - » — - ▼ MM
.
of my life with a man — — Yet, why Should I complain? Why should I repine.? Ought I not rather to think heaven for Saving me from the misery of pafi sing my days with a man of principles So opposite to my own.? — Yet there is no reason why I Should be j in any sirape accestary to his death, because our I Sentiments da not happen to be the Same. — I could not, I confess, hear of his dangerous Situation, related by a friend, whom he Sent to me to Solicit my forgiveness, without Shuddering; yet, tho’ I loll my senses, from Surprise and concern, I was not, on my recovery, weak enough to enter into a conversation, with Mr, Wilmot (that I think was his name) upon a Subject that could not but be distreffing to me.
Poor Kitty was wilh me, and almost wept out her eyes. — She never lets me rest a moment j Sire Says,
'perpetually Says, that Sire is Sure he did not design to behave amiss, as he loved me too well to vex me. —
Poor dear girl! Sire is ignorant, happily ignorant, of the arts of designing men. — May Sire never susser by their insinuating manners, and iniquitous proceedings!
I also thank heaven that lord Woburn is better. —
I Slrould never have enjoyed a moment’s ease, if I had only Sancied I had been any vv^ay instrumental to his death.
I will, from this time, keep myself quite Sree from any connedt/ons with men. — I never knew Sorrow'
till I knew lord Woburn; -- -- -- and yet they tease
me about Sir Charles Conyers. -- -- -- -1 was in hopes
i that he had been Sixed upon for Kitty; but I find he only thought ofher, on a Supposition that I was engaged. — However, he Slrall not Serve my iittle friend So. — I will never take him from her, though She dish covers a remarkable dislike and shyness. — lord Woburn was her Savourite. — Poor girl! -- -- -- -- Yet if he
Should marry her, he will, I dare Say, behave well '
H 5 to
to So Sweet a young creature, about whom he cannot be suspicious— — he is not likely to recover, 1 — People, indeed, who have Seen him, tell me he is a riazingly altered. — I wisli for his recovery, but I wish also, never to remember what I have Suffered on his account.
LETTER lxm.
i
*
Lord woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
\
HOW much am I indebted to your brother! Had he not Stood my friend, I must have Sunk ere now, under the weight of a disappointment which will, I believe, make an end of me. — So much the better — My whole Soul is wrapped up In lady Charlotte, and Sire cannot forgive me. — Perhaps She may in time be prompted by her excellent disposition to
pardon me -- -- but her delicacy will never, I fear,
permit her to receive rae in the manner which can, alone, render me happy. — tohappiness, theresore, I must for ever bid adieu. — And what is lise without happiness.?
I am Sorry to See poor lady Huxley grieve
So for me; -- -- -- few filters have So tender a
regard for heir brothers. — I was always her savou rite, though L am Sure Sire pities Ned, who has Seen nothing of his wife i — bat he has heard from Several
people.
VVV20WJ.N. I
/
people, that Sire is gone to France.” - t. -- 1 cannot,
however, attend to his affairs at present j it vrsas the looseness of his wife, which confirmed the bad opinion I had long entertained of women; and made me more desirous of trying my angel, who, conscious of her own innocence, mult, undoubtedly, behold me in the most disadvantageous light. — Lady hsrxfey imagines that She Still loves me.' — posiibly, my sister Says this only to Seed me with hope, and to make me tolerably easy. — She means well, but her consolation is inefseftual. — She also advises me, to take the Same method I pursued before, upon a little amorous quarrel, which I have related to you j that is, to follow her in public, to throw myselfin her way, and to endeavour to move her pity, by my appearance and address. — But I am really So much asraid of alarming her, of giving her any nevv vexation, by appearing in her Sight, that I have not courage enough to at agreeably to my sister’s advice. -- I would i not give her a moment’s uneasiness for the world : I would rather die, than displease her again — designedly.
Oh! Wilmot! Wilmot! how my heart doted on her! How it Still dotes on her! — To think of losing her by my own Solly. — It is too much, for jne, to bear.
My good Sister tells me, that She will make her a visit, and talk calmly with her, and persuade her to pity, and accept of the man who is dying for r her. —
But I know her visit will produce no consequences in my Savour. — I had better, theresore, get out of the way, as Saft as I can. — May the dear, lovelytihar lotte, [meet with a man who loves her as well as I do!
-- -- -- May She also meet with a man who will never
venture, in any Shape, to incur her displeasure.
Adieu,
w— — :

I
LETTER LXIV
Lady C h ari. OTTE Morden to
Mrs, Blomer.
show
are you, my dear Mrs. Blomer? Have you Succeeded.? Slave you made Mrs. Scot let's uneasy by your asseuionate consolations.? I have a longing desire to See you, and have more than once Schemed a visit to Dublin. — livery thing here is dull or disagreeable. Sir Charles follows me very where, tho’i have astured him, positively, that I will not marry. — Sir William ashton has entreated Mr. and Mrs. Elliot to Speak for him, as I am at liberty, he Says. — I would not, upon any account, receive him.
I will not, indeed, marry lord Woburn, yet will I never marry anybody else. — I dare not venture to make any farther declaration towards the restoration oshis tranquillity, of which, they tell nre, 1 have for ever deprived him. — Gracious G — d! did I do anything to vex him, or to disturb him.? On the contrary, was he not insinitely dear to me.? And had he given me no reason to disapprove of his conduct, we might, at this moment, have been happy. — He, he alone, has occasioned all this distress. — I am extremely yvretched. — They Say he is declining very
Salt. — Kitty weeps from morning tonight. the
poor giri distradtsme wjth her Sorrow. — — Mr. Wilmot, my lord’s friend, who Sollows me about in all places, tells her, that Sire is more lovely in her tears, than the most blooming beauty nature ever made. — ■
To Say truth, I think Kitty Seems more inclined to listen to this gentleman, than to Sir Charles, but
that
X - v y XV T y W IV 1, JL Q 4
that will never do. — Wilmot is only a younger brother, though, to all appearance, an agreeable man,
'— Sir Charles is Sull as agreeable, and has a large
1 eslate, -- -- -- -- -1 am interrupted,
1
In CONTINUATION.
I Lady Huxley is jusl gone, — She has lest nothing unsaid to vindicate her brother, and to prevail on me to pardon him; to pardon him, is I will not accept of him. — I begged to be excused talking of, or listening to a Subject which gives me but too much disturbance.
“Only tell me that you forgive him, lady Charlotte, ” Said Sire, at last, “you need not be apprehensive of his taking advantage of Such a Savour, ” added Sire, Sobbing while She Spoke, “my pool Charles will not live to osfend you again.”
Will you condemn me, my dear Blomer, if I asture you that my tears Slowed as fast as
her’s. -- The man whom I loved with the greatesl
Sincerity, lies at the point of death, on my account —
So they would persuade me to believe. -- Cani be
unasteued at Such horrid intelligence!
“If that is the case, then, my lady, ” replied I, “anything I can Say, will have no estedt upon him.
— -- -- cease then in pity to me, to mention a man,
whose deviation from the path of honour I must ever lament.”
With these words I left her abruptly. -- 1 could
not, any longer, Support a conversation, which tore
my heart in pieces. -- -- It has. made me completely
miserable. -- -- Sir Charles Conyers, and this Wilmot
too, exert themselves, perpetually, to entertain, to amuse me at least, and to drive away the sadness with which Tam overwhelmed.
Kitty, also, who most tenderly Sympathised with are, now ventures to upbraid me for my cruelty, as :. She
She calls it, to Such a man; but Should Such a con du£t as that, which I resented, be ever forgotten? besides, I am not really the cause oslord woburn’s
present illness. -- -- -- It was the Shame, the remorse he
Selt after having acted in a manner not to be justified by his own conscience, in the calm moments of recollection, which.brought his Sever on.him; — — — — and yet they will impute his illness to my inflexibility. -- -- -- -- Pray examine both Sides of this unfortunate
afsair with attention. — You will then, I flatter snyself, be of my opinion.
\
I
}
\
f
'f
L E TIN.
, 0j
LETTER LXV
«
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
I THANK you for your Solicitude about my recovery,
-- -- My recovery is still Sar oft'.' — I believe,
indeed, that my Stay in this world will be Short— — can make no impresiion on the dear obstinate; and am, theresore, very indifferent about mysels.
Harry is indesatigable in my Service; he is in love, indeed, I believe, with my cruel Charlotte, and consequently finds double satissadlion in running after her. -- -- However, I don’t mention this to undervalue
his friendsliip. — Harry is really turned out a very artsul Sellow. — He is master of all her movements; he has even made his way. Some how, into the Elliot Samily, and will, I doubt not. Soon get a
Sooting at lady charlotte’s. -- -- But heaven knows
whether he will be successful. — I can hope for no success. — He will certainly admire her; but I have not the leasl reason to imagine, that he will endeavour to Supplant rae- -- can I suppose that
Sire will, immediately, listen to another lover. 1
have given her an antidote against love, I think, for the present, at least. — Yet, I am Sometimes inclined to hope, that She has not absolutely lost all the tenderness which She once, undoubtedly, Selt for me. — ^ She has by no means recovered her Sormer chearsul
ness. -- -- She looks pale j She Sighs Srequently : yet
Harry tells me, She never looked more beautisul. — The poor Sellow is quite gone — deeply touched with a pastion which will only plunge him into unspeakable
dislress, as he must necesiarily be in a hopeless Situation. — Yet why Should he be in Siich a Situation? He is young, he is well made, he has an elegant countenance, a sost insinuating manner, and a delicacy in his carriage, which is very attradfive. In Slrort, there are few won: en, in my opinion,, unengaged, who could resist harry’s advances to
them. -- -- -1 told him So t’other day. -- He gravely
replied, that neither his present Sortune, nor future expectations, would permit him to entertain any thoughts of marriage, especially with the objest to which his inclination led him -- -- that is with lady
Charlotte, unquestionably— — has not the dear creature a Sortune Sufficient to raise the man, whom her afi'edlion prompts her to distinguish, and a heart, and a person to elevate him almost above mortality! -- -- Well -- -- if it must be So -- may She be
happy. -- -- -1 Shall in a little while be no more.
Yet I will write to her once again, and make her acquainted with all the motives by which I was adluated, when I behaved to her in So Strange a manner. I am the more determined, from what
lire let drop to Wilmot, a Sew days ago. -- Harry,,
truth, is a very honest Sellow, and a Sincere friend; -- -- whenever I am soolisli enough to harbour
any suspicions about likn, I do not do hiui justice.
I am not at ail right -- -- Where was I? -- -- -- He
told me, t’other day, that he had found a moment to attempt the vindication of my conduct once more, and that the dear creature replied, “Your friend, lord Woburn, Sir, had no reason to imagine, that I Should suster the Sreedoms he was pleased to take, because he well knew I had always discovered a particular dislike to them.”
I will open my heart to her upon paper. -- -- She
Shall See my whole soul — though I can Say nothing,
to
to apologise for my going farther, than I at Sink
intended. -- But I must take time -- neither my
head nor my hand will Suffer me to write in the manner I wish.
LETTER LXVI
/
Lord Wo B URN to Lady Charlotte mordenj
After all that I have offered in my own defence to no purpose; after all the sruitless Solicitations of my friends, why Should I disturb you, lady Charlotte, by putting you in mind of a man, who has rendered himself So very exceptionable, and who will not exist long enough to give you much more trouble? However, as your good opinion of me is absolutely necessary to my peace, I cannot readily give up all pretensions to it. — I cannot help willing to recover that inestimable blesling, which I lately ■ -- -- 1 fully believe, enjoyed. — Fool— —
man! to forseit it by a behaviour, for which there is So poor an apology to be made.
You told Mr. Wilmot, the other day, madam “that I could not poltibly have any inducement to behave in the manner I did, knowing that you would be offended vvith it.” — It is true I did, imagine, and sincerely hope, indeed, that you would be angry with, me, as I had, till this last unfortunate event, no apprehensions but about your too hastily yielding to my
wishes J -- -- -- not from any observed impropriety
in your conduct, but from my having found all the
women
women with whom I ever had any eonnedtions, and all those to whom my friends were attached, incapable of refitting the importunities of their lovers. And though I had tried you, and Sound you quite averse to improper Sreedoms, I was I own Staggered, when your Servant positively declared, that ihe admitted men by your order. — Still you will Say, that after having had reason to believe my suspicions groundless I Should have left you in consequence of your repeated requests. -- -- - — To have barely suspefted you was,
you will justly add, susficiently provoking. — I confess,
I have been exceedingly in the wrong j but where is the man who can, at all times, command his passions, especially when excited by an object So temptingly beautisul? — In Spite of all I have Suffered, in Spite osall I Still Suffer, I am yet to thank you for being proof against my attempts; — for had you fallen, I Slrould have been every way more wretched, is posfi ble, than I am at present. — Abandoned as I appear to you lady Charlotte, I never Seduced any woman; and could not, I am certain, have Supported the distress She would, necessarily, have Selt in Such a Situation, with any composure, even though I had, at the Same time, despised her for her folly. A woman Muthout virtue is, in my eyes, the moult pitiable as well as the most contemptible, jcharafter. — She is Scorned, She is detested by the whole world, and particularly by him who deluded her into a State of infamy. — Such awoman is not only So unfortunate as to. find nobody her friend, She finds everybody her enemy; is not Such a woman, theresore, highly deserving of compaslion?
— Thank heaven! lady Charlotte will never become
*/
Such a character— — because Sire is So eminently
excellent, musl I be uncommonly miserable? -- -- -- -- -
How peculiarly hard is my Sat, madam, that what raises you to a degree of angelic purity, Should render me the unliappiesh of human beings! I am, at this moment, most cruelly Suffering for having, bythe
temerity'
L U IV JJ W LI D U K IN. 187
temerity osmy behaviour, made you appear In a Still more iilustricus light than you did before. — Consider, then, that you owe me Something for having discovered virtues which might for ever have lain dormant in your breait. — Intoxicated with love, love to an excess, I Sorced you to Show yourself the most exemplary, as well as the moult lovely of women— — what I have Said, you' cannot imagine it possible for me to live without you.
I intended, when I began this, to give you the history of a friend of mine, who was made wretched by a woman, in appearance, almost as amiable as yourself— — with his unhappy condition, I dreaded the thoughts of meeting with a Sair one, who would
plunge me, perhaps, into the Same. -- -- My Strength
Sails.. — I am not equal to the talk at present which J
had imposed upon mysels. -- -- -- -- -1 mult, theresore,
wait till I am more able to write. — What I have already written, is So very puerile, and Sails So Short of my sirst intentions, that I could, with pleasure, tear it in pieces; but my head is too confused, to
permit me to explain myself better. -- -- -- -- -- -- Yet,
deprived of the only Selicity in lise, arising from your dear Society, I must, while life remains, employ it in thus conversing with you; though, lam asraid, you will not indulge me with answers to my letters. — -: — Perhaps you will not deign to read what
I Send to you. -- -- However, as you are absolutely
mistress of all which is left of me, to you I must, while I can hold a pen, address every thought of my heart.
N
T r' 'r
/
XLVII
From the Same to the Same.
AS Mr. Wilmot, madam, has promised me to use his mosl earnest endeavours, to prevail on you to read what you will not condescend to hear from me, I will attempt to re'ate the misfortunes of my friend; misfortunes which have made but too deep an impresiion upon me for my peace, as they were, in a great measure prodnftive of those insults from me, of which you So justly complain; insults which have for ever destroyed all my hopes of happiness. —
Mr. Care y was born to the inheritance of a large Sortune, and educated, in every respedt., like a young man of sasliion j yet, though he kept very Spirited company in his rank and Sphere oslife,. he never gave a loose to any criminal passions;; distinguished himsels in an insamous light, never availed himself of his accompliflrments, natural and acquired, to Seduce the innocent from the paths
S virtue. -- With a heart equally alive to taste
and Sentiment, he determined to look out Sora companion postested of the Same inclinations as himself.. Sound Mira boswell, one of the most beautisul girls in the world, the very girl he wanted. — Mira, as loon as She perceived herself carey’s favourite, thought herself the happiest creature imaginable. — Her birth and Sortune were Suitable to his, her family approved of the alliance, and he was permitted to visit her as a lover. miss boswell received
Mm with the highest satisfauion. — For Some time things went on in the mofl desirable manner •, and
the
jli KA XV .LA V T A LJ L •
'the preparations which were making for the approaching marriage, at proper intervals, filled up the hours which were not dedicated to tenderness : hut when the cioatlrs^ house, equipage, c, dec. were ready, and when poor Carey began to grow impatient to become postest of his bride, the lawyers had not finislred the writings. So that a delay was occasioned, which was very disagreeable to him j « r it aiso pro; ved Satal. — As Mr. Carey had eondudled himsels with great delicacy in all his raost private interviews with miss boswell, fly had no reason yo
, jfuspedt his having any improper designs upon her nor, indeed, had he, himself, Selt the Slightest desire to deviate from the Strict propriety of his carriage to her J neither was he in the least encouraged to suppose, that an improper behaviour, on his Side, would be sussered. — However, being young,, ■ i
■naturally amorous, and exceedingly Sond of iris m.is tress, he was one evening, when they were by themselves, tempted, by a particular charm in her look and manner, to be more free of his carrefi’e.s than usual— — lady, too much asfected by his ■tenderness, received his endearments So melting] y, that he was animated to be Still more lavish of them,.
— Carey, on finding himself but feebly relifted, began to think of pusliing his good Sortune, as Sar as it would go— — proceeded with redoubled vigour, hut met with an opposition which surprised him. — ■
So unexpected a disappointment, jusl when he imagined he was arrived at the Summit of his wiihes, was not to be endured. ^he became out of temper and Soured; and discovered, from that time, So much indifference, So much disgust, indeed, that miss boswel, in whose bosom his caresses had raised very tender emotions, was disappointed in her turn. —
The negligence of her lover .chagrined her extremely; but as Sire believed that his cold, unkind behaviour, was ocx.alioned by the opposition Sire had made
to
ip u r
to his desires, and fearing he fhoiih quit her entirely in a pet, she strove to soothe him,, by a thousand winning blandisliments; — those blanciiniinents succeeded, as they brought back, with a return of love, all that enervating tenderness which had, at first, occastoned the little difference between them,
• — The lady, in short, being apprehenstve of provoking her lover a second time, fella facristce to her own soft sensations, and to his pressing advances 3 advances to which he was more than ever stimulated by an ardent destre, not to be repulsed again. — Urged, violently, by paffionand.by pride, his attacks were successful;; no sooner was the victory gained, than he had, as well as the lady, all the reason in the world to repent of his impetuostty.
- — 'The anxiety and distress in which she appeared, and her repeated imporrunities to hasten their mar ^ opened his eyes, and made him see the very great impropriety of a conduit, on which he had not eiven himself time to reflect, till it was too late.
— Then, and not till then, Carey began to think, | that a woman who could So easily part with her virtue (though merely, as She would have it be!! to gratify the man whom it was her interesl |
to oblige, as Sire was to pass the rest of her lise with I
him) would be always ready to yield to any man. '
just when everything was ready for their marriage, Carey was halt distradted; he knew not
what to do., -- -- -- -- -- 'Her perpetual upbraiding?,
her entreaties, and her tears, equally distressed him, and rendered him unable to come to a
determination -- -- -- -- Still he was in love with her
person, though her conduct had been So exceptionable. — Finding that nothing Sire could Say could reconcile him to what was past, and beginning to Sear Some disagreeable consequences, from her having too easily Surrendered to him, miss boswell, at length, fretted herself Sick, and was in a very Short
time,
LORD WOBURN. i9j
time, thought to be in imminent danger. — This hurt him extremely, as he looked upon himsels to ^
be in a great measure the cause of her illness; and as he was, from the nature of his engagement with her, permitted to See her, he, in order to admini sler consolation, assured her, that though he could not bring himself to marry her, after what had pasted, he would, upon her recovery, if Sire would consent to live with him, take her abroad, and be as Strictly true to her, as if they were really married. — These assurances, instead of'hileviating the anguisli of her mind, threw her into a kind of frenzy j but time, youth, and a naturally good constitution, all operating in her Savour, her health was restored, and with returning health. Sire Selt her mind much less disturbed. Carey, who had never Sound her in the least censurable, but for her ^ inability to repel his Seducing approaches, renewed
his offer of carrying her to France. ^^she, at lait,
consented, for Several reasons. — She had Still a tender assection, which his ungenerous behaviour had not been able to extirpate; 'but Sire mas induced to comply with reiterated requests, chiefly by her pregnancy. -- -- -- Not knowing how to extricate herself
from So Slrarneful a Situation, without being exposed to her Samily, and the whole world, fly eloped with her lover, as Soon as She was in a condition to travel with him; and they determined to Settle in the South of France.
There he treated her with all the asfedtionate care which the best of wives could have desired, and in no Shape did his behaviour to her differ f rom that of
the fondest, and most induhent husbands. -- But
they had been there only a Short time, when her beauty made a deep impresiion on a young French nobleman, ’ who Spared no pains to convince her of ' the power of her charms. — Sot a while Sire held out against his every artful expedient to win her to
Lie
291 11 1 0 1 u K Y u r
his purpose. -- -- At last, however, upon his telling
her how scandalously Carey had deluded and deceived her (his valet had wormed out of carey’s domestics, by his order. Secrets which Slrould never have been divulged) and how much more worthy of her he himself was who had never attempted to impose upon her, by an offer of marriage; Sire began to iilten to him; from listening to him, sire Sound hero sels inclined to enter into conversation with him, — (when a woman comes to a parley, it is all over with her) In Sliovt She Soon yielded, merely, as fire at sirst believed, from resentment against Carey, though, in fact. She loved him, and him alone, at the very time She threw herself into the arms of this Frenchman.
But I Shall fatigue you too much, lady Charlotte, in sending you Such a long letter. -- -- -- -1 will there
Sore take another opportunity, to transmjt the remainder of .Mr. carey’s history. — IHAVE x)nly to wilh, that the pei usal of it may prompt you to pardon a behaviour, which 1 do not presume to de send, hecause I well know that it is jndesenfible. — ■
I can never forgive myself; how; then, can I expect to be pardoned by you?
I
i
* I
1. E r
jli W IX Xy YY W D SJ IN IN. 193
I LETTER LXVIII
From the Same to the Same.
IAM going to continue my narative, madam, and without any apology, because you, I imagine, desire to read the continuation of it, without being interrupted by any impertinent preface to it.
My friend, Carey, Soon Sound that Miss boswell was as saithless, as fire was fair; and that he had no reason to expe£t fidelity from a woman who had not been Saithful to herself. — In the sirst tranfc ports of his anger, he turned her out of his house, and bade her go to the man whom Sire prcsered to him.
Shocked at having been discovered, and Stung to the Soul at being So cavalierly treated by the man so whom She had Sacrificed everything — Sire lest him, as Sire believed, quite cured of the Slightest regard for him; as he had behaved to her in So
infamous a manner. -- -- However, after a very Short
residence with her new lover, who was the mosl volatile and fickle creature breathing, She Sound that Sire Still loved Carey, and that her tenderness
for him was not to be extinguislied. yet, being
too proud to make the Smallest submisiions, andcon fcious of having been grosly abused, Sire remained for Some time, in a State of wretchedness, not to be described.
Her relations and friends in England had totally abandoned her, upon her sirst going off in So in discreet a manner; and her Sather divided the for tun.e he was to have given with her, to Carey, between her two younger Siiters, who were, in coni
Sequence
Sequence of that division, married. -- -- -- -- -- Without
that addition to the fortunes intended for them be?” fore, they might never have received any honourable overtures, for the indiscretion of one daughter in a Samily is Srequently detrimental to her Sisters.
As miss bor\a'’eli vt^as deserted thus, and negleued hy thole to whom Sire was most nearly related, with whom Sire was most intimately conneued, Carey refledled with pleasure on his not having married a woman of So loose a disposition, of So infamous a eharadter : Ire even began to think himself less culpable, for having attempted her to deviate from
virtue. -- -- Her incontinence, however, made the Sex
in general, appear to him in So unfavourable a light, that he chose to avoid any connexions with them, for Sear of meeting with a Second Mira bosvvell.
-- -- -- aster having Spent Some years in different parts
of France and Italy, during which I became intimate with him, as he Saved me more than once from being drawn into the greatest hazard of my lise, by the licentious behaviour of the women in both those countries — he returned to England 5 and, from that time, We continued on the raost friendly Footing.
One day pasling by the house, in which he had Spent many, many happy hours with Mira, he Star -- ted, turned pale, and laying his hand on my slioul der, cried, “I am always affected at the Sight of a place once dear to me, but V hich is now remembered with a kind of horror.”
At that instant cne of the prettiest little boys I had ever Seen, very plainly, but neatly drested, puh led him by the coat, and begged him to give him a penny.
My friend, whose head was turned from him, bade him begone, in an angry tone, without looking at him j called him a iittle rascal; and told
hinr
jli IN Ay VV VU W IX
him it was a Sirame to See Such a young beggar a bout.
Struck with the figure of the child, I put my hand in my pocket, and gave him Sixpence,.
“Thank ye. Sir, ” cried the boy, with his innocent eyes Sull of tears, “I will carry it to my poor mamma,,, who is dying, ”,
The child’s tenderness, added to his uncommon beauty, touched me in a Singular manner, and I could not help Saying, “Who is your mother, my dear .?”
“Mira boswell, ” replied the child.
“Gracious g ^d !” exclaimed Garey, Starting, and looking at. the boy, “he has, her Seatures, her
completion, by h -- -- -- n! Oh! .Woburn, ” added
he, Supporting himself upon my Slioulder, “this child, this boy must be mine.”
For ray part, as I believed nothing at all of the matter, and looked upon his exclamation as the wild estufion of a disoidered brain, I would have persuaded him to go home; but though 1 did not imagine, that the boy was his Son, the iittle rogue afseued me too much, to let me oif So. — I theresore, asked him, where his mother lived?
“Herein the next Street, ” answered he, “She is almost Starved to death with cold and hunger, ”
“Oh! G — d! my poor Mira!” cried Carey, catching up the little boy in his arms, and violently caressing him.
“pr’ythee, Carey, ” Said I, “don’t distradt your sels for nothing; how can you suppose, that an unknown child, accidentally appearing to you in the Street, Should be either your’s or mira’s .?”
“I know he is, ” replied he. Still holding the boy, “I am Sure he is mine. — Lead nre, child, lead me to ycur mother.”
12 The
The poor little Sellow obeyed, and led the way to Vine street, which was within a few yards of us. — In asliabby apartment, pale. Sick, and emaciated, was the once beautiful, once blooming Mira, discovered.
She raised herselfup in her bed, Screamed at the sight of Carey, ' though Sire had been every day,
hoping to See him (as we were asterward told) -- rand
Sunk down again upon her piliow.'!>r — He was Scarce able to Support himself at the appearance ps her. So totally unexpected.’ — However he flew to her. — She opened her arms to receive him They could Only weep, they could only embrace for Some moments; and the pretty little boy had his Share ostheir endearments.
When they began to recover a little, for great were the emotions into which they had been thrown, hy So unlooked for an interview, Mils boswell, who was in the last Stage of a consumption, brought upon her by irregularities, grief, and remorse, in Sormed her lover, that as Sire was certain She had a very Short time to live, Sire could not die iij peace, without Seeing him, and asking his sorgive ness for all She had done amiss, from the very beginning of their acquaintance— — then reproached herself, in the Strongest and severest terms, for having yielded to his Solicitations j and asked him, at the same time, in the mofl: pathetic accents why he had endeavoured to tempt her Sronl her duty, “Why, O! why, ” added She, (tears Streaming from her eyes) “did you urge me to part with all that could really make me valuable, with all that ought to have rendered me So to you.? Indeed, my Carey, ycu were too hard upon me. — Loving as I did, hew could I bear to See you miserable, on my account? You Slrould have considered my tender ness, my more than w'oman’s weakness”
Here,
LO K JJ W U 15 U K in. i97
Here, overpowered by her emotions. Site Sunk
down upon her pillow. -- -- -- - — — My friend, who had
been excesiively fliocked and affected at the first Sight of her, believing that Sire was gone for ever, called aloud for help, and Seemed, indeed, not in much, better condition than his mistress was.
I aslitted her nurse and Servant to recover them. — > Then, thinking that they might chuse to be by themselves, I was gclng'to quit the room.
“don’t go. Sir, ” Said Mira, with a low. Inward voice, “• I have nothing to Say but what Mr. carey’s
friends may hear f -- -- ‘iny deviation from virtue was
made public by my elopement with him who had no right to convey me from' my relations and acquaintance. — .My abandoned way of life has, also, Since been but too pnblick 5 and, therefore, it is fit that niy penitence, too, too ioug delayed. Should be lb - — I am truly iiiocked at the review of my palt life. — ■ I have Suffered a great deal for my indiscretioas j would" to God that rny contriiion — I have been very guilty, but I — ”
Slere She fainted. -- -- On her recovery, Sire thus
proceeded May all l>hose, my Carey, whose pasiions are ungovernable, take warning from us, — • Our examples may, perhaps, be Serviceable to Some people of both Sexes. — — When I had scandalously lest you, ray Carey, ” continued She“ “was led, from necessity and dittress, into a life of prostitution - “that lifetias brought me to the condition in which you now See me — to the brink of the grave — But I will not give you the pain of listening to a detail of the raiserjes I have endured Since we Separated. — You will, I dare believe, be melted by the recital of them. — Worn out at lait wilh my Sufferings, and destitute of friends and money, to procure many of the necessaries of life; distradted at my past con,
dudtj.and Still more -- -- O! nature, nature — for the
face
I 3
I HISTORY OF
Sat of that poor dear boy (who, by all that’s Sacred, I Swear, is your’s) and longing more than ever to make peace with heaven and you, for want of proper necessaries, my Situation became too dreadsul to bear. — I, therefore, employed people to make a Strifl inquiry after you; hearing that you were but lately come to England, and lived not Sar off, I made my Servant, with whom I have always kept up a correspondence, and who knew you perfeu ly, to take the child out every day into the Streets, through which, I thought, you would pass, and to Send him to you, as Soon as She Saw you — I ordered her to Send him to you, with a tale most likely to attradl your attention, to excite your pity, and lo bring you hither, that I might once more bless my eyes with a Sight of you, the sirst object which they loved; that I might implore your pardon, recommend my poor Innocent boy to your protection, and die — if posiible — in peace.” —
Here She ceased to Speak — and Sunk down in her bed, almost senseless. — Soon afterwards, grasping my friend’s hand, She expired.
The agonies in which he beheld her, while She related her melancholy Story, and the natural sondness of a Sather for his newfound child, had So moved. So melted his heart, that he wislied to make her Some amends for the wretchedness which Sire had endured, though She had, in a great measure, brought that wretchedness upon herself.
But fire was not permitted to live, and to be benefited by those tender sensation, which Sire had raised in his diftrested bosom.
I removed my friend, immediately, from the mournful Spot — He was, indeed, entirely incapable of acting for himself. — I, therefore, conducted him to a chair which, in consequence of my order, kad been called. -- -- When he got home he was So
ill,
I n O R D W O B U R N. 199
. ill, that it was absolutely necestary for him to be pul '
to bed. -- -- He was put to bed! and a physician wa
i ' Sent for — I had imagined, that the suddenness of the interview, between my friend and his Mira, with the melancholy event to wffiich he had beeii unexpeuedly a witness, had only afseued his Spirits for the present, and that time and rest would restore him. — Bliti was mistaken. — ^ — He was Seized with a raging Sever j he became delirious in a Sew hours, and in four days afterwards’, died, without being able to make the least provision for his child.
-- -- He seemed to be chiefly disturbed on his account; day and night did he talk, in a rambling Way, of what he intended to do for him, but he was never in a condition to execute his intentions.
I Sent for the child the moment he first mentioned him, hoping that the Sight of the little fellow, during an interval of reason, however Short, might be Satisfadlory to him; but he was always too wild and irrational, to attend to arty thin which could be oftered towards his recovery.
In this manner was one of the moult amiable men in the wmrld lost, merely from having persuaded a woman, whom he*fondly loved, to sacrisice every, thing to his pasiion for her. — Had Sire been able to resist him, they might have been both happy,
— But with .a woman, who can be weak enough to yield, even to the man to whom Sire expects every day, to be legally united, no felicity can be rationally expected — Her weakness must perpetually render her liable to be dangerously Seduced, and, b consequently, keep her husband in a State of continual anxiety. — (an I, then, madam, be deemed so highly culpable for having wisired totry the lady ' 1
whom I intended to marry.? And mufti be doomed to eternal wretchedness, because I Sound her Superior in virtue and ■ goodness to all her Sex?
• — Reflect
I 4
» — Reflect a moment, lady Charlotte, besore you condemn to everlasting despair, the man who placed all his happiness in your Sweet Society; and who discovered you, on repeated trials, the very woman for whom his Soul had long Sighed.
I can add no more — my ill State of health will not permit me, at present, to give you any Surther
trouble. -- -1 am waiting very Salt. -- -- -- My life
will Soon come to a period; yet Shall f, with niy
latest bieath, call down blessings on you. and
I Shall leave the world Supremely satisfied, in having found out the most virtuous woman in it.
LETTER LXIX
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs.
Blomer.
At the repeated interceslion of Mr. Wilmot, I have read three asfefting letters (received from his hands) from lord Woburn. 1 have transcribed them for your perusal. -- -- The melancholy tale
■ related In two of them is a true one, as Mr. Wilmot allures me. -- -- Mr. Carey, it Seems, dying without
being capable of making a provision for his Son, lord Woburn, from friendship to the Sather, and compaslion to the child, immediately Settled five thousand pounds upon him, and put him to School; from which time he has treated him like his own Son. -- ■there is Something very great in this behaviour.

i
(
haviour, Something extremely humane. -- -- -- -- -- -- There
always, indeed, appeared to me more greatness 1 and goodness in lord Woburn, than in any man I
I ever knew. -- -- -- -- Yet, admitting, that he has acted
wrong, upon a right principle, how can I extenuate ' his late conduct, with regard to me? — Had he not
susficiently tried me besore? -- -- There can be no
apology for his conduct. — He declared, indeed, in these letters which he Sent immediately to me, after his Strange behaviour, that his jealousy, roused by dawson’s insormation, and his pasfion, increased by Seeing me alone, and undrested, had rendered him no longer master of himsels. — He did, it is true, behave in a manner entirely inconsistent with the i regard he owed a woman who was So Soon to place her whole happiness in his power. — No apology theresore, as I Said besore, can be made for his conduct— — is imposiible, to advance anything in his favour, without Supposing him to have been. divested of reason, when he allied So much in opposition to discretion; — and who would put herselt into the hands of a madman?
However, I beg you will read over the inclosed letters carefully, and give me your opinion. — In the mean time, I will be honest enough to confess, that I have been, and am now, exceedingly affected by
lord woburn’s complaints and illness. -- -- -- -1 sincerely
wilh that I had never been acquainted with him. — Connexions with men are, I See, both disagreeable
and dangerous. -- -- -- -- 1 will not, therefore, enter into
any for the Suture.
Mr. Wilmot, this friend of my lord’s, is moth asfiduous about me; but he has, hitherto, conduced himsels with a respedtsulness, and deference, almost beyond conception. — His looks and his manner convey more meaning than I choose to understand J and the fine things he lays cf me, to my
friends,
I S
friends, are more than I can possibly merit. yet
ail this Submiffipn and admiration, added to the agreeableness of his person, cannot make rae behold him in the light I have regarded lord Wo
hurn, -- Kitty, now deprived of the Sight of the
latter, thinks the Sormer a very charming man; — .1 Sancy So, from my remarks on her behaviour j for She has not declared her partiality in his behalf.
LETTER LXX
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
I HAVE Sent, as I told you I would, the hislory of poor Carey, at disserent times, to lady Charlotte. — Wilmot kindly undertook to prevail on her to read it; and I have had the satissauion to know, that it
asseued her extremely. -- Yetis She immoveable
with regard to me. — When Wilmot prested her to pity and to pardon me, as my behaviour to her, which had been So highly resented, had not arisen from want of respedl to her, or suspicion of her virtue, but from a Sudden fit of jealousy, Surious and uncontrollable. — She replied, “No, no, Mr. Wilmot, you are mistaken; had my lord Woburn Sound me destitute of honour, he would Soon have given 'me up, as I Slrould have well deserved his desertion“
“So, ” answered Wilmot, “because you believe that he would have acted with the greatesl
Dronrietv
i
propriety and prudence, you will punisli him with the utmost Severity; and even injure yoursels, by de ■ lining a connexion with the only man in the world, capable osmaking you happy.”
She blushed, he Said, and hung her head, as is She felt the truth of his assertion, though She would not,
verbally, subscribe to it. -- -- He tells me, that he is
Sure She loves me; but he tells me So with ten thousand sighs— — are happy, ” Says he, “happy in being Still dear to the moult amiable of women, ” — But to what purpose am I dear to her, if She perfists, constantly, in refusing to See me, - or to hear me? She has condescended, indeed, to read my letters j but to what purpose has She read them, as they have not in the least sostened her heart in my Savour.? I cannot long Support myselsunder this torturing certainty of her insiexibility. — — I have more thamonce told Harry, that when I die, I wili leave her as a legacy to him J and Since he is happy in never having, even in thought, osfended her, I dare affirm that ilie will not reject him. — They are, undoubtedly,, Sormed for each other’s happiness. — I Shall Soon be no more.' — I grow, hourly, weaker and weaker. — I neither eat nor Sleep. — My mind is perpetually disquieted;; am tortured by a thousand corroding
passions .- — am worn to a mere Sliadow. — -- -- -- Your
brother persuades me to throw mysels in her way, and thinks Sire cannot withstand the Striking change in my person - — But I don’t imagine I Should Succeed
by Sollowing his advice. — -- -- However, I cannot be
, worst than I am. — that’s imposiible.
I 6 L E TIFF
t,
/
LETTER LXXI
Lady Ch A r L ott e Morde n,. to Mrs. Blomer.
I THANK you for your opinion, and am glad that we think alike, with regard to lord Woburn 5 but I cannot agree with you, that it is quite neces sary for me, to accept of the sirst man who offers himself. — besides, neither Sir William asliton, nor Sir Charles Conyers have, I am persuaded, the leasl afsedtion for me. — They, undoubtedly, have no dislike to my Sortune and connedlions. how very
different is their behaviour from that of lord Woburn, when he was sirst accepted.? How disferent, indeed, are they in their manners, from Mr. Wilmot, whose whole attention to please is extreme. — ■ He has, entirely by making himsels agreeable, induced Mr. and Mrs. Elliot to treat him with particular politeness; their behaviour to him is, I think, the more extraordinary, as they cannot, I am Sure, entertain any thoughts of him either for me or Kitty.: — In Short, we are rather a little at cross purposes, if I may be permitted to Say So; for Mr. Wilmot, though be treats everybody with the mosl becoming propriety, evidently distinguislres me. — 1 do not Speak out of vanity; believe me. I cannot be mistaken. — Indeed, I am not the only person who
has taken notice of his Solicitude about me; he
Seems, however, to endeavour to conceal his Seelings in my favour. — He Srequently flies to asfisl me, to entertain me, to please me, but often draws back, as is he checked himsels for his sorwardness to o blige me. — When a man discovers a Strong desire to make himself agreeable, and behaves, at the Same
time.
j — ^ — - — * » 'W
\
\ time, with an uncommon modesty, ought he not to be distinguiihed'pyet, do not fancy, my dear Mrs. Blomer, that I can ever look upon Mr. Wilmot in
I the light I beheld lord Woburn. -- I look upon him
, only as my lord’s friend. — Poor Kitty is not So indis
Serent. — While he his with his eyes now and then lifted up, and now and then cast down, with half Suppressed Sighs, She sighs too, and Says Some good. natured thing to divert his thoughts, and to turn them into another channel. — I really think tbese a greeablg people may Sigh themselves into a pasiion for each other in a little while; that is, I am Sure She likes him, and, I imagine, that the discovery of her inclination by him, may produce Similar emotions in his breast. — Sir Charles Conyers fluctuates between Kitty and me; but were I to give him encouragement, he would not, lam certain, think
about her, because my fortune is the largest. -- -
Would you advise me, my dear friend, to marry, Such a man?
«
your’s, Sincerely,
Charlotte morioenj
I
I ...
LET
2 OO ri 1 b 1 u K I KJ t
js***tt jtr It. J!"
V
LETTER LXXII
From the Same to the Same.
SOON after I dispatched my last letter to you, ''T" had a long conversation with Mr. Wilmot —
He pleaded with Such earnestness for his friend, and ' discovered So much sensibility, that I could hardly bear it. — — — I, theresore, desired him not to mention, lord Woburn again, if he had the least regard for ' me, “As I have long taken my final resolution upon the Subject” ” I, “let me entreat you, Sir, to Spare my listening to arguments, which only fill me with concern, on his lordslrip’s account. — I cannot but be concerned, I own, to think oshis having put
it entirely out of my power to grant his request. — -- '
Has he not already induced me, by Mr. carey’s Story, to believe, that two people cannot expect to be happily connected, when they have proceeded, on both Sides, to improper Sreedoms ?”
“You do not State the case Sairly, I apprehend, madam” ” he; “Mr. Carey was rendered" miserable, from the want of discretion in his mis — - ' tress;; would you make lord Woburn Singular --, ly unhappy, by having Sound So much ?”
, “I am Sure, ” Said I, “it will be discreet in me to put an end to this conversation; and So I Slrail leave you to Mils Downton.”
I then went upstairs.
Kitty Soon came to tell me, that Sire had been endeavouring to console Mr. Wilmot for my cruelty, .but that Sire had Spent her time in vain, as he was
not
not to be comsorted : adding, “he has told me in confidence, that lord Woburn is in a very declining State; and, that he Sirmly believes, nothing but a change in you can Save his lise, ”
I heard all this, but made no answer; imagining that Wilmot had only talked in this Strain to Kitty, to move me to compaslion. — That my lord is concerned at our Separation, I can easily conceive; and I suppose he is not thoroughly recovered from his Sever, which has been, probably, increased by his reproaching reflections. — He may now, perhaps, be ashamed of his imprudent conduit, and Sorry for having acted with Such glaring impropriety; but his. Shame and his Sorrow will wear off by degrees, and he will, posiibly, forget all his palt misderneanors. — • 1 Sincerely wisli him well. — I can Say no more
LETTER LXXIII
Lord Woburn to Mr, Wilmot.
I SHALL Soon be obliged, my friend, by the irresistible hand of Sat, to put an end to a corresh pondence which has been So long and So amicably carried on between us — I wish only to live to enjoy your friendsliip, and to hear of lady charlotte’s for
giveness. -- -- of the Sormer I am Sure, but not all
the eloquence of our dear Harry can procure me
the latter. -- -1 must Submit.
I am, through weakness, or I know not what, obliged
to lay down ray pen. — -- -- -1 Slrall Soon lay It
down, never to take it up again, ^
I have
I have made my will; but have left lady Charlotte nothing, ■ because I believed it would pain her extremely, to receive anything that had been mine. — ■ While I had hopes of pardon, I looked above everything; but as I now find, that her pardon is not to be obtained, I most readily give up all I held dear.
-- -- -- -- -- hadi, indeed, the least interest with her, I
would recommend Harry to her; but my recommendation, as matters are circumstanced might,
perhaps, deprive him ofher delightsui Society. -- -- -- -- -
I think he would make her happy; he loves her with a kind of idolatry, and has acted with the noblest, the most disinterested friendship towards me. — It is time for me to be out of the world, as I only disturb or disgusl everybody whom I love and esh teem in it.
Lady Huxley has just been here. — Her concern afsedts me; yet I cannot yield to her entreaties to try the South of France, which the impertinent
doctors declare absolutely necestary for me. -- -- -- -- --
But Supposing I was willing to leave England, what relies could a disterent climate give to a wounded mind? Nothing but the dear cause of my disorder can efredtually cure it; and as She Sears to put herself into my power, why Should I torment her.? It Is better for me to die, than Sorus both to be miserable. -- -- -- -- -- Let me only add, that women in
general might, by behaving in a disserent manner. Save themselves, and many an honest fellow, from that kind of distradtion under which I now labour. — The majority of both Sexes, indeed. Suffer by discovering each other’s infamous proceedings; but I am now hastening to my lasl moments, for having Sound lady Charlotte possessed of more virtues than could have existed, I believed, in a female Sorm. — Great, I consess, has been my folly, and while I am enduring inexpressible anguish for it, I can
Scarce
jl ji 'W JL V JL T T X # w ^
\
Scarce blame the dear creature for keeping up a ' proper Spirit, and resenting an insult which deserved the Severest chastiseraent. — ^shehas Severely chaslifed me, and I kiss her corredting hand.
I have lest carey’s boy, who promifes to be as a miable as his Sather. — May he, by associating only with women of real virtue, escape his sather’s Sat! — I have left him ten thousand pounds, and appointed
you and your brother his trustees- -- -- -- and he
will, I doubt not, take care to See him well educated,
'— I owe him this mark of my regard, in return for all the proofs I received of his father’s friendship—
— -- -- -- him up with a thorough detestatioa
of every kind of vice— — particularly careful to Warn him against the Sedudtion of women. — They are bad enough of themselves— — want no provocatives to mischies,
I, et his sather’s Sat be Srequently displayed to him in the most lively colours, that he may be deterred from availing himselsof the tenderness osthe woman whom he intends to make his wise j and let my jealousy and resentment, causeless jealousv' and raslr resentment, - be Strongly pointed out to him, that he may not be hurried to Sulpedt the woman whom he honourably addrestes, without the most alarming
reasons. -- -- -- Above all, let him be taught
never to deviate So Sar from the respedt due to virtue, as to offer to take any improper Sreedoms.
How Sincerely do I now condemn myself for having.. So ridiculous a precipitation, attempted to try lady charlotte’s discretion! — How nobly did Sire repel all my attacks And how cruelly — may I not Say cruelly! — does She for ever reject a man, who cannot but find his tenderness increase Sora woman, whom he has discovered to be So exemplary a character.? — Freely do I acknowledge, that I was highly culpable in going Such unjultifiable lengths, when I had all the reason in the world to believe that my suspicions were groundless j — but yet my contrition,
zio XT. i o J. w rv I va r
my remorse, and even the principles which led me to' believe, that no woman could make me happy except herfels, whom I distinguished for the purity of her Sentiments, and her excellent manners, ought, I think, to have Some weight with her— — — who is Searful of meeting with women of a loose disposition, and desirous of aslociating only with the most virtuous of the Sex, must be totally disserent from the libertine in his governing Sentiments, that a woman of the nicest honour need not to be asraid of his behaving, improperly to her, when Sh has consented to take him for her husband. — But Hiy raslr behaviour, for which I can, it Seems, make no atonement; has Steeled lady charlotte’s heart against me.
I am too ill to write any more at present— —
have but one card more to play -- -- -- -- then ftrewelb
for ever.
Adieu, -
« ^
M E ’T
vvcaouixin. zii
LETTER LXXIV
From the Same to the Same.
IH A V E done as I Said T would. -- -- -- have had
an interview. — Such an interview! — Oh! Wilmot, I am beloved to an extravagance of tenderness,
-- -- Yet will the dear, dear creature, be Still perverse
; Still obstinately refuse to make me complete !y happy.
• Harry had long persuaded me to let her See me, but I could not think of any place in which I could exhibit myself in a manner the moult likely to touch her; at least in which Such an interview could be unobserved by any persons but those who were interested. in it. her own house Seemed to be the
properest place. — And though Sire had declared to Harry Several times, that She never would receive a visit from me, I was not, by any means Sure that her Servants had orders to deny her to me j I, theresore, threw myself into my chair, aster having given Hind his instructions..
At an hour of the day when I thought Sire would, ■ most probably be at home, and by herself, I Set out. — I bore the motion of the chair with difficulty. — I could hardly Support mysels, till I reached the room in which She Sat.
The porter gave me admittance, without the Slightest hesitation, but one osher Sellows was flying
upstairs to inform his lady who was coming. 1
caught him by the arm, and clapping a couple of guineas into his hand, told I Should want his assistance— — fellow Seemed better bred than many of his Sraternity; and, by Silent respecls'ul Signs, discovered
axjlioxv: in X‘ ^
covered the compassion which he Selt at the Sight of me, So totally changed in my .person Since he lasl Saw me.
When We arrived at the door of the dreffing room, I bade him leave me— — had just Strength to crawl to her Sect. — I then Sunk down, unable to Speak or
move. -- -- I can only remember that She Started at
the Sight of me, and exclaimed, “Lord Woburn !”
Her agitation increased mine — I was overcome -- -- -
When I first opened my eyes, I Selt sensations which I cannot, polsibly, describe. — ' — I Sound niyseis on the floor. — — My head res’ted on the lap of this dear woman, who was on the ground by me. Tears ihrea'med from her eyes, her voice Saultered, and Sire, Sobbing, asked me, why I would come and terrify her with the Siuhf of me, in So dreadful a condition?
At first I had not Sufficiently recovered my senses to compveiiend. her— — I could make a reply,, your brother Harry entered the room, lifting up bis hands and eyes at the Scene presented to him— — —. “Mr. Wilmot, come, ” cried the weeping angel, “and affist mein railing your friend, and then call for proper people to conduct him home, ”
“Never will I go home, ” Said I to her, “never will I leave you, till you promise to be less Severe,, till you promise to pardon me, and to See me while I linger in this world of misery.”
“Do not talk of dying, ” replied ihe, wringing
her hands, “I cannot — cannot bear it. -- -- -- raise
him, Mr. Wilmot, and place him on this Sopha. — He has almost deprived me of my senses by his Sudden appearance; — by Such an appearance too — Merciful G — d 1 what have I done that I musl See him die ?”
Here a sresli Sliower of tears put a Stop to her utterance; while I, exceedingly loth to leave So sost, So Sweet a place ofreit, railed my Ian;
;
vvvy UV^AN IN.
guid head Srorn her lap, Seixed one of her dear hands, and astured her, that if She would be condefeending enough to pardon what was past, and give me but the Slightest hopes of being ever restored to her former favour, 1 might 1 believe recover.
She returned no answer- -- -- only looked at
Wilmot, who aslisted'me to get to the Sopha j with Some difficulty I was conducted to it. — Soon, however, I attempted to rise from it, in order to plead my cause. — She made a sign with her band for me to sit Still. — Wilmot, who Seemed actually to tremble for her, led her to a chair.
She Sat a little while, then rose, and walked, with agitation, towards the door.
I folio vsed her as fast as my feeble limbs would :, carry ine„ and catching her by her gown, fella second time at her feet, crying, Oh! stay and ■hear me.. — I cannot let you go— — h —! 1 cannot' ' —
her head toward me, and fetching a deep sigh, five replied, .Save me, Mr. Wilmot - — 1 hen broke from me, and left the room.
I became half frantic at this behaviaur, and called after her, but to no purpose— — cursed hac ry, myfeif, and all the world; and when my amiable friend ostered to astist me, in getting to my chair: : a threatening tone charged him with having supplanted me.
‘‘ How tmjust is your aceufation !’" fajd he, with his iifiral mild and gentle manner. — - — Have I ever •received such proofs ofher tenderness as you have? Have I ever been (upported on her knees, like' you? Has stie ever thrown herself on the floor In an a^o
o
ny of grief, on my account.? — And yet I love her as well as you do, my lord — Recover your reason, theresore, and let rne conduct you home.”
“I will not Stir, ” Said J, “till I have Succeeded j till I have bent this Stubborn heart to compaifion.”
At length, however, after a number of persuasions, and partly, indeed by eompulfion, Harry got me out of the house, though I quarrelled with him till he saw me iliut up in ray chair. — He walked by the fide of it. ’
When I got home I was so fatigued, so spent, that they could hardly keep life in me. — Your brother oitlered them to put rae to bed, and made life of so many arguments to convince me, that lady Charlotte loved rae no less than I loved her, that 1 began to be pacified. — I even entreated him to return to lier, and to tell her, that I had been too much fliocked by the last cruel proof of her unforgiving disposition to expect a recovery.
He smiled, and left rae, after having strongly recommended patience to rae.
In about two hours, which I thought almost two
years, die came back -- -- -- I was so eager with ray
inquiries, that I hardly gave him time to speak- --
last, he informed rae, that lady Charlotte had received him pale, trembling, and Scarce recovered from tsie Surprise and terror into which I had thrown her. — She gently reprimanded raef’ continued be, for fufferiiig you to endanger your life, by coming out in such a state— — told her, that as you had very often declared you must die, if deprived of the sight of her, I had, indeed, persuaded you to make an atteiript to see her once more. — I also told her, that I knew not of your having let out in order to visit her in So abrupt a manner; but that, on calling at your house, and hearing wdrither you was gone, I hastened to give you all the astiltance which could, I knew, be necestary. — I concluded with
J
letting her know, that I believed you never would appear abroad again. So deeply had her coldness affected you.” — “My coldness 1 — Gracious G — d 1” exclaimed She, while tears trickled down her Sweet face, “can he complain of mv coldness, alter he
had
I
had almost deprived me of my life, bythe condition in which I beheld him? Did I not do everything
in my power to restore his senses ?.^ -- -- -- -
He knows not — he knows not how much 1 suffered by the Sight of him In So deplorable a Situation.” —. i “You can this moment, then, my lady, ” replied
i I, “restore him at once to health and peace, by
! consenting to his wislres. — It is in your power, and in your’s alone, to raise him from misery to happi ‘ ness, from death to life.” — She was Silent a Sew moments, Seemed to be very much agitated, and then Said, “if nothing but a behaviour on my Side,, directly opposite to my opinion, can Save lord Woburn, what am I to do ?” - — “Change that opinion, madam, and yield a little, to have your kind condescension repaid by the restored health, by the sincere and perpetual gratitude, and by the most ardent tenderness of a man who truly deserves whatever you can posiibly •feel in his Savour, though he unfortunately, for a few ■moments, Sorgot the respect he owed you dazzled ■by that beauty, which would have tempted any man in his Situation to have been off h .s guard; many mien, I believe. So Situated, would have been far
more indiscreet- -- -- her lovely face was in
the most beautiful glow I ever beheld, and She ap
■ a radient objetl to my enchanted eyes. -- -
Riling hastily. Sire Said, “excuse me now, Mr. Wilmot, I muit retire; I cannot talk any more upon this Subject. — Thinking it cruel to disturb her any longer, and to drive her from the apartment we
were in, I bowed and left her. -- -- -
Thus ends your brother’s narrative — • — and now, jack, what am I to think of all this? — Are there any hopes, or not? — But my constitution is So miserably Slratered by this affair, that I don’t much think I Shall ever recover the Sliock it has received.
You know not at how many different time, I have written this letter, ^my Strength is quite exhausted.,
— All
— AH I have to vvisir for now is, that if I must die, X I may expire on her dear lap, on which I Selt tyre moft ecstatic joy I was everyet sensible of.
your’s as usual,
w -- -- -- -- -
P. S. Lady Huxley continues to teaxe me about going to Montpelier j but I cannot think of it.
- — No — 1 would not, on any account, die at a distance Siora lady Charlotte.~ to be only within a Sew yards ofher, in my last agonies, would give rne even in those agonies, no Small faiisfaclion.
Adieu,
/
J. E ra:
r\r\r\’ r\/\r\f\r\r\r\r\r\r\ \r\r\r\y\a..
LETTER LXXV
Lady Charlotte Morden to Mrs.
Blomer.
IH A V E been almost deprived of my senses by the sight of lord Woburn, expiring, as I believed, at my feet : I have Since been almost reasoned
out of them by his insinuating friend. 1 cannot
relate the particulars. -- 1 wilh, indeed, to Sorget
them. — I only know, that while I was Sitting in my dresling room, lord Woburn entered, but So pale and emaciated. So entirely changed in his person, that had not his image been deeply — too deeply — engraven on my memory, I Should hardly have
recollected him. -- He approached rae, however,
weak as he was. — Iwas So Sliocked, and So Srightened, that I could not get away from him. — He Sell at my feet — I knew not then what I did — I became almost Srantic. — I called — I Stamped — nobody came
near me -- -- -- Perhaps I had not Strength to make
myself Sufficiently heard. -- 1 Selt my heart die
within me, at the Sight of him liseless on the floor, —
I threw myself down by him. -- -1 heard him groan,
at least I thought So— — was ready to expire by his Side. — All the sost, the tender sensations, which had, alternately, given me So much pleasure, and So.
much pain, returned with double violence. -- ..-.
I was moved in a manner not to be described. -- -1
Should have been Struck with horror, I Slrould have been melted with compassion, if I had Seen any man
dying at my feet j but to See lord Woburn die. --
Oh! Mrs. Blomer, it was too much to bear. — — — Trembling with terror, and Scarce knowing what
'K I was
[
1410 JL X 1. o X vy XX X L
I was about, my heart Strongly prompted me to aslrft the man whom I could have Saved, with the loss of my own lise. — Surely, my dear friend, therei.s nothing indelicate, nothing criminal, in giving as sistance to a sellow creature Sinking in the arms of death. — I raised his poor languid head upon my lap, and applied a bottle ot eau de luce, to his nose; though my hand Slrook foi could hardly hold it.
At that instant, happily for me, Mr. Wilmot came in.
I called to him, immediately, to aslifl me. — I cannot proceed. — I can only Say, that I am extremely miserable— — why would lord Woburn beliave in Such a manner as to render me absolutely incapable of acting agreeably to the dictates of my heart?
Say Sornething, my good friend, by way of consolation, if you can. -- -- -- 1 can Say nothing for myself.
— I am agitated — I am tortured beyond expression- -- -- honour, and discretion, Stir uma tempest
in my breast, and the violent opposition made by those paslions to each other, almoit deprive me
of my reason. -- -- -- 1 am really not able to determine
what is right, what is wrong.
This man, during this stat e of racking uncertainty, is dying. — What will become of nre? — My fears, my apprehensions, unspeakably alarming, will drive me to d’lstradtion. — — I will fly to you as Soon as I can persuade Mr. and Mrs. Elliot not to make resistance to my wislres.
Kitty is nearly as wretched as myself. — She certainly loves Wilmot. -- -- -- Sir Charles Ccnyers, having
no hopes of me attaches himself to her, but to very little purpose.
Earnestly
t
KA S LA V Y JUT V J. ^
Earnestly wishing to hear from you Soon, for your
letters are ever niost welcome to me, -- -- 1 remain
your very Sincere, but very unhappy friend,
Charlotte moroe rf,
«
L E T T E R LXXI.
From the Same to the Same.
/
My dear, dear friend, why don’t you write td
me? — I cannot hold out much longer. -- -- -- ^
Lady Huxley, has been with me again — She Sell on her knees, and with Streaming eyes conjured me to Spare her brother; but I was not Sliaken by her arguments, nor Softened by ber persuafions. — Yet I
was conquered. You Slrall hear. -- -- -- -
She astured me over and over, that lord vsoburn’s entrance into my chamber, vas not in consequence of his having intended to take any improper Sreedoms, but of his Seeing a man let into my house, in a manner susheient to create suspicions. — She allowed, however, that he ought not by any means, to have adtedas he did. — “Yet, my dear lady Charlotte, ” added this artful advocate, “only consider a little; — put yourself in my brother’s place Sora moment — consider how ardently he loves you — consider how rnuch reason he had to believe, that
he was on the point of being your husband -- -- --
and then consider your own beauty. — It was irresistible. -- He could not help Snatching those endearments
which were, perhaps, the more alarming to you, as you was, at that time, surprised and terrified to a great degree, — And is the man, whose cha
K a rafter
vyr
rafter you approved of, and which is, indeed, unexceptionable, whose person and manners susficient ly induced you to admit him, as the man whom you designed to marry; is he tp be discarded — nay, tole actually murdered? Tor you, by your obstinate and obdurate carriage, doom him as ejfeftualiy to destruftion, as is you were to plunge a dagger isi
his heart,; -- -- You would, indeed, discover less
cruelty, by dispatching him with a Single blow, than by sussering him to linger in torments inexpressible.
-- Reflect, theresore, a little more Serio usly
than you have yet done, upon lord woburn’s dis tresssul and most pitiable Situation; — and do not — do not ungenerously — I would not willingly add inhumanly— — your breait against the man whom you once loved well enough to chuse him, from all his Sex, for your husband; and whose death you will, lam certain, pathetically, though with unavailing Sorrow lament. —; -- -- -”
My tears confirmed the, concluding words of her
well meant, and earnestly delivered Speech. -- -- -- -
Her voice, her person, her manner, brought her brother So Strongly to my view, that I began to be very much afsefted, by what She had Said to me, — • However, I begged her to excuse me talking upon a Subject, at that time, for which I was wholly unprepared— — I could not entirely Silence her. — i She would enter into a minute detail osiord woburn’s illness; She would tell me how much his Spirits were depressed, how much he.was weakened, how much he was wafted; adding, “that nothing was So likely to restore him, a the air of Montpelier; but that all the worl4 could not prevail on him to let out, besore he had obtained my promise to pardon him, and. to be, unit; ed to him at his return.”
After having been, rnuch worried in this manner, st at lait replied, “Nobody more Sincerely wislres
lord
LORD WO B U R R 2zi
lord Woburn health than rnyfelf, and if my pardon will make Iilin consent to take proper steps for the restoration of it, I beg yoiir ladysliip to tell him, that I forgive him, and destre him to fet out immediately; for as he is at present sttuated, no time Should be lost.’’
She left me, after having forced this declaration from me; 'and I returned to my dresting rooni; endeavouring to compose my mind, Vvdiich had been very much disturbed indeed.
Soon afterwards they informed me, that Mrs Downton was coming up. — Kitty had been carried to meet her mother the very day my lord surprised me. — They now entered the room together.
When our first compliments were exchanged, Mrs. Downton asked me, very particularly, after Sir Charles Conyers.d throvvsing out a stint, at the same time with resrard to his attachment to her daughter.
Kitty coloured, while I Spoke of Sir Charles In
terms which I thought he merited. -- -- -- She then,
kneeling to her mother, and kisiing her hands, in treated her, with tears in her eyes, not to Sacrifice her to a man whom Sire could not love;
“My dear girl, ” replied her mother, methinks it is too’early for you to be in love 5 if Sir Charles Is a man of a good understanding, as lady Charlotte asllires me he is, and is good tempered; if he has a Sufficient fortune, and is not disagreeable in his person, I would not desire to See you better married } such a man must, necestarily, engage your assec
tions -- -- therefore, get up, my dear j you know,
Kitty, you have always been brought up to esteem every amiable character of either Sex; you mult, consequently, love Sir Charles, when you are married to him, as much as you ought to’do for the attainment of happiness with him,
Poor
K a
222 HISTORY OF
Poor Kitty coloured again, looked extremely disconcerted, and Soon afterwards lest the room, to give vent, I suppose, to herdisquiet.
I Seized that moment to persuade Mrs Downton not to be too hard upon her daughter. — “We cannot love or hate just as our friends please to direst us, ” Said I, “Kitty is of a most amiable disposition, and I Sincerely wish She was married to the man She could like.”
“And why Slrould not Sire like Sir Charles, lady Charlotte.? He has an agreeable person, and many good qualities.”
“True; -- -- -- -- but it is impostible Sorus to help
preferring one man to another Sometimes, though the man we chul'e may not be approved of by our relations.”
“How! — Has Kitty encouraged any particular person, lady Charlotte ?”
“I don’t know that She has; — but I am Sure if Mr. v/ilmot vasto attach himself to her, and if his fortune was equal to Sir charles’s, he would be the man; — or lord Woburn, were he also disposed to prefer her .?”
“Lord Woburn and Mr. Wilmot? Why, they are both in love with your ladyship. — What caa the girl mean by thinking of them ?”
“I am not acquainted with her intentions, madam; but as my lord and Mr. Wilmot are, both cf them, generally allowed to be agreeable men; and as Sire never Sees them, but when they are endeavouring to Set themselves ofs to the greatest advantage, I am not at all surprised at her prepostes sions in their Savour.”
“And has not Sir Charles Conyers been in the very Same Situation; may we not, theresore, reasonably supposcher to be as well pleased wkh him ?”
“I do not think So; for he teases her Scr proofs of hr approbation, while they Steal into her heart,
by
W XV ^ TT w w XV
liy imperceptible advances. -- -- -- - — You will allow,
I imagine, that we are always more ready to bestow ^ our charity upon people who do not solicit us, than on those by whom we are presllngly importuned.’^
“It may be so. — And you, lady Charlotte, arc of an age, and at liberty to aft as you please, with regard to these things; but, certainly, such a girl as Kitty is not capable of knowing what is for her future benefit. — ^ — — She has given me sufficient reason. to call her judgement III qlieslion, by preferring two gentlemen, whos’e inclinations are already engaged, to a man who is, by what I can learn, every way' equal to them in point of merit, though She is silly
enough to make exception to him. -- -- -- -- -- - — - — She
must, therefore, be cured of this folly. -- -- -- -- -- --
Nay, it is, in my opinion, highly Indelicate in her, to think ferioufiy of a man, who does not pretend
to any inclination for her— — ^ -- is the folly and
the forwardness of women, my dear lady Charlotte, which makes so many bad men
Bless me replied I, you talk like lord wc burn. — ’’
You will not like me the worse for that, ” answered She, Smiling; but, indeed, I canrtot help attributing the ruin of the generality of young women, ' entirely to their romantic notions; they Sill their heads with a thousand idle fancies about love,
which they ought never to encourage. -- -- -- Let them
but take care to marry men of sense and character, and they need not be afraid of proper treatment.
— — If a woman is not happy with a man who is
worthy of her esteem, she deserves not to be So. -- -
T Sail in love with a man, merely because he has a pretty Set of Seatures, and drestes welland Says
a great many Sine things -- -- Ridiculous Stuff! Take
my word for it, lady Charlotte, a pasiion kindled by. Such trifling attractions, wili be of a very Short
K 4 duration.
z24 jtlblukl ur
duration— — the girls of this reading age, absolutely turn their beads by reading a pack of improbable Stories, calculated only to crowd the mind with wrong ideas, and to make the heart Stutter with pernicious emotions. — By reading Such books, they work themselves up to a belief, that they are in love with every man they See; and, indeed, that every man whom they meet with, is in love with
them. — -- -- -- -- I never Suffered Kitty to Spend her
time in this manner; her acquaintance have been chiefly people who are instruftive, as well as entertaining, and her books have been altogether of the
moral kind, though written in an amusing way. -- -- --
Young Solkswill not bear perpetual reproofs; they are too often rendered desperate by them : they Slrould, therefore, be lured from vice and Solly by examples of self-denial, chastity, gratitude, generosity, filial affection, and delicacy of Sentiment.
Examples not to be ostcn Sound in the living world, as one would wisli, I own; but those examples in books may be of no Small Service to the young readers, if properly attended to. -- -- -- Books Sull of
Such examples, and professedly written on the Side of virtue, I take care to put into kitty’s hands, and no other.”
don’t you admire Mrs. downton’s just Sentiments, with regard to the education of a daughter, my dear Mrs. Blomdr? -- -- -- -- Much has Kitty been benefited
by the tuition of Such a mother; Seldom do we meet with a young person osher birth and connexions, with Such an excellent heart, with manners
So amiable from the Simplicity of them; -- -- -- and
yet, my dear friend, has not this charming naivete, this purity osheart rendered the lovely girl too keenly assedted with the extreme sensibility of two of the moil insinuating, pleasing men in the world.? — But
let
kukli vyunuixin. ^^3
let me Shop here. — While I thus plead for Kitty, am I not, at the Same time, endeavouring to exculpate myfeif?
Write to me immediately, or you will be punish ei — vvith a Still longer letter
. <
From your asseftionate
gharlottemordeni
II
LETTER LXXVII Lord Wo B urn to Mr. Wi lmot,
/ * J
WILMOT, my dear Wilmot, I am as happy as a man can possibly be in my condition; and if Hive, I Shall, I hope, be exquisitely So; but it is now a moot point, whether the extravagance of my joy will not kill me.
yesterday, my excellent sister, lady Huxley, came, with all the eagerness of Sincere assedion, to tell me, that She had procured my pardon from lady Charlotte, who wislied rae to take all necestary Heps towards my recovery j and was particularly desirous to have me go, in consequence of the advice of my physicians, to the South osfrance.
I made Caroline tell me minutely what had pasted
between them. -- -- The dear creature’s behaviour
was
Was charming; but I have no leisure to acquains you with it now. — I muit hasten to a Still mors important event.
Having thanked my sister for her asfeuionate carriage — I told her, that I must desire her to give me, one more proof of her friendsliip, by meeting me at lady charlotte’s, as I was determined to be carried to her house that afternoon y adding that iwislred She would go first to Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, Secure
them in my interest, and bring them with her. -- -- -- -- 1
made that addition to my request, because I imagined that the Elliots, who had never discovered any dislike to me, but in compliance with their charming niece’s humour, would readily make their appearance in my Savour.
Lady Huxley left me, as Soon as I had communicated my wislres to her. — I Sent ter Harry immediately, told him my intentions, and Solicited his concurrence with them. — He chearsully consented, on condition that I left the execution of Some part of my design to him. — We, accordingly, Set out for St. james’s Square, in the Same manner we had k'st it a few days ago. ^.
When my chair was opened in the hjall, I Sat in it a little while, to recover my breath and Spirits, while Harry went up and told kdy Charlotte, who had only Kitty with her, that I was come to thank her for my pardon, and See her before I Set cut for France.
“Is he then going !” cried the dear creature. Starting with surprise, while concern flushed her Jovely cheek. — “But I cannot See him, sir, ” (continued She, “pray tell him, that I wish him well, ” (rising with emotion).
“You will not refuse to See him, I am Sure, ”
Said Harry; “perhaps -- -- -- most probably, you will
never see him again; it is imposiible for him to out'
'• ■ ■..
k
live the Satigue of Such a journey, weak, dying, as he is. — ”
“Good h — n !” exclaimed Sire, trembling, and red and pale by turns, “Why will he go then .?”
“He goes in obedience to your ladysliip’s com -- mands, madam.”
“My commands, Mr. Wilmot! -- -- -- -- -- -- -- have no
right to command him. Sir; lady Huxley told me, that my lord’s physicians advised Such a tour, as highly necestary^ for the re eftablishment of his health. — I have no commands, ” added Sire, bursting into tears, and covering her Sace with her handkerchief. —
“condescend to see him, then; my lady; to admit him upstairs, and to honour him with your Sentiments.”
“I — I — .” Here Sire Saulrered, and appeared to be violently agitated. — “I have nothing to say, lir. — I cannot talk.” — (rising).
“You Shall not be desired to talk, madam, ” Said Harry, taking her hand and re seating her — you Shall only hear — ”
“Do, my dear, dear lady Charlotte, ” added the
weeping Kitty, “do but hear him -- -- -- -- -- hear him
but this once.”
“Do not discress me thus, Kitty; — why this importunity? -- -- -- 1 have done what my lord, what
lady Huxley desired. — ^ -- -- I mull leave you, Mr.
Wilmot. — -
At that moment I was led into the room by Sir George Huxley and Mr. Elliot (the two ladies fol lowing) who conduced me to the feet of my angel.
She lifted up her hands and eyes, but Said no thing.
“Now, my Sweet lady Charlotte, ” Said lady Huxley, Seating herself on one Side of her, while
Mrs
• ^ *
t •»
'\
^. JL, A. ^ JL.
Mrs. Elliot took the other, “look upon this poor dying creature; and let pity, for once, Supply the
place osa soster pasiion. ‘remember that mercy
is the darling attribute of heaven.” — “Come, lady Charlotte, ” added Mrs. Elliot, taking her hand, “rd Woburn has Suffered enough for his Soibles; let my petitions, joined to lady huxley’s, prevail on you to pardon him. — ”
“I have — I have pardoned him, ” replied Sire, hastily, turning away her charming face.
“Complete, then, my Selicity, my adored Charlotte, ” cried I, “by giving me this dear hand.” — (gently Seizing it).
“Well — well, ” answered She, “Iwill -- -- -- when you
return.”
“I Shall never return alive, ” Said I, “I cannot, indeed, go, without my charlotte’s consent to be mine, now everything is ready; and then, if I Slrould die, you will not have my death to answer for.” -- --
‘ Oh! do not talk So, ” cried Sire, “do not tear my heart in pieces, (laying her head upon Mrs. elliot’s Shoulder.) — What a distrefs is this ?” - —
“You may easily remove it, my dear lady Charlotte, ” Said Mrs. Elliot, “lord woburn’s friends, and your friends, think it high time for you to discover less Severity in your behaviour, to a man who has been brought by it to the very brink of the grave. -- -- -- -- — Nothing but your immediate consent
can now lave hi n. — posiibly your consent may come too late.” — “Yet, when you have done all you can, ” added lady Huxley, “his death will not be charged to your account.”
“Is my existence, then, So little to be desired? Said I, ^
“Cruel !” replied She, quite overcome— — looking at the Elliots, “Do with me, ” continued Sire, “what you please.
. '
Everything had been provided for our marriage.
■ — A Special licence was ready, and Dr. Dolby attended.
Poor Harry (I Selt for him) astisted Sir George In Supporting me — a most eligible bridegroom to be Sure, while Mr. Elliot gave me his niece’s invaluable
hand. -- -- She was just on the point ossainting. --
I pitied her from my Soul •, yet I was unable to relieve her, almost Sainting rnysels — So ecstatic were my sensations. — After having clasped her, withal the Strength I had left, to my throbbing heart, we Sat down.
• Mrs. Elliot, feeing how incapable my angel was of giving orders, took care of everything. — cosfee,
’ tea, jellies, c. were brought up. -- -- -- Soon afterwards
all out company lest us, except Mrs. Elliot and Kitty. — I then became So exceedingly ill, from the Sudden alteration of my affairs, and from the weakness of my condition, that I could no longer
Support myself. -- -- My dear Charlotte Saw and Selt
my uneasiness. — Sitting down by me, Sire took my hand, and prested it in the tenderest manner imaginable. -- -- -- - “You will not Send me from you ?”
Said I to her — “Never, replied She.” — I could not proceed -- -- -- They carried me to that very apartment,
in which I had So heavily offended — no other bed being prepared. —
When the Servants retired, my dear Charlotte approached me, and with accents heavenly Sweet, while her lovely face was crimsoned with blusires, Said, “I have ordered a bed to be brought into my dresfing room, that I may be ready to give you anything you want in the night, ”
“No, my love, ” replied I, pressing her hand to my lips, “I cannot bear this.” — But I was not able to divert her from her purpose. — Her woman, whom fire has taken in the room of dawson, and who is older and fitter for the bufiness, Sat up with me, and
... gave
gave me Something warm whenever! wanted any resresliraent. — In the morning my wise, delightful
word! -- -- breaksalted by my bedside— — Still
weak and languid, but Seel an ease in my mind, which prognosticates the restoration of my health.'
My angel has begged me not to Sit too long at my writing table. — You may imagine that I have writ ’ ten this at disserent times. — I Shall be ever most will ■ to obey her who has Saved my life, for whom only I wisla to live.
«
A
LET E R LXXVIII
Lady Won urn to Mrs. Blomer.'
WHAT a Sudden! what an imexpefted change, my dear friend! I have not leisure to Send' you the particulars j but t am certainly married to lord Woburn. — if my union with him, if my perpetual Solicitude and tenderness can Save him, I Shall be completely happy. — If I have acted indiscreetly in this aisair, you muit not blame me — your brother and fister, Sir feeorge, lady Huxley, Mr. will t mot, every creature of my acquaintance, for whom I have a value (excepting yourselsi insisted upon my
compliance. -- -- My dear loied, himself, was almost
killed with ffatigue, and with the suddenness of the event; but I think he is better — 1 hcpe So. — All my
prayers
prayers are for his recovery; all iny wiihes, all my cares are to promote it. — May heaven restore him!
— Do not condemn me, my dear Mrs. Blomer; -- --
hear all firth, from Mrs. Elliot, and let me have your sentiments upon this unlocked for and Surprising revolution — a revolution astonislring, even to myselt. — I am, however, and ever Slrall be,
Your very asfeuionate ‘ Charlotte Woburn.
^ ^ ^ ^^ ^ ^ ^
LET T E R LXXIX
V
Lord Woburn to Mr VI L m o t.
whai'a charming creature have I married I How undeserving am I of all her care and tenderness! 1 actually wonder at my asiurance, in daring to make only a nurse, at present, of the sinesl woman in the world. -- -- Yet Such a nurse, Wilmot,
you never Sav, nor heard of! — She has Saved my life, and Sire will make it a moil blested one to me, indeed.
We have been preparing to Set out for France; but, I believe, a visit to the Contnient will not be necestary. — I recover Strength hourly, and do not desire to hear of anything likely to disturb the tranquillity I at present enjoy, with my Charlotte ever by my fide. — I cannot think of being happier, or better ia one place than another..
You can hardly imagine, by how many winning
ways
23 ^ HISTORY Or
ways She endeavours to amuse me, to entertain me, and to convince me of her Sincere afsedtion for me.
-- -- She is in hopes that a journey to France will
prove beneficial to me, and is, theresore, eager to Set out.
“Was you not going to France, my dear lord Said She, “besore we were married.”
“Yes, my life, ” replied I, — “they told me, there was a necessity for trying the air of Montpelier; and as I was determined never to go thither without you, itook those hasty Steps which you condemned at the time; ■ but as I am now happy by having taken them, and as you, also, are now happy, you will not, I hope, my dear Charlotte, disapprove of them.”
“I will not, ” replied She, with an enchanting. Smile. — However, She Still urges me to adopt every prudent measure to forward my recovery.
The doctors have made a movement, which wilt ■ fix me in I'mgland. — They recommended the air of Some Salutary Spot near town. — I mentioned Windsor, because I always liked that place; and because We can have the very house to which my Charlotte retired, when I drove her, by my rasli behaviour, from her own. — 1 will go thither as Soon as il is ready. — We Shall take Kitty and Harry with us, on whom we have a Small design — a very friendly one you may be Sure; I Mill not asfront your understanding by naming it.
L E T
K II VY U U K IN.
>.#####■#######§#? ###########
LETTER L XXX
Lady Woburn to Mrs, Blomer,
windsor.
HOW happy am I, my good friend, in receiving your approbation; how Supremely So, in being the wise of the most amiable of men!
We are, agreeably to the advice of the physicians,
• at windsor, as my lord was unwilling to go to France, when the doctors insormed him, that there was not an absolute necesiity for his departure from England. — To tell you the truth, I believe the Montpelier Scheme was Sormed, in order to draw me in with the greater Sacility. — I told my lord So — he Smiled, and assured rne I was mistaken j but added, that as he could not think ds going to France without me, he had Some Small hopes, that I would rather accompany hi m,. than let him die, by Staying behind'. — I chid him for entertaining any doubts, concerning my behaviour, iipon So interesting an occasion. — fie kissed me, and' told me, he was extremely happy in finding that I loved him better than he imagined I did.
We have Mr. Wilmot and miss Downton with us j the former talks of going abroad, and, by So talking, makes the, latter look rather melancholy’s; and her fpints are not at ail yet mended, by her mother’s urging her to receive Sir Charles, as Soon' as he returns from the North, whither he was obliged to go, to take posseshon of an estate lately fallen to him. ■ -- Mrs. Downton was not very willing, knowing
our party, to let her daughter accompany us but as I politlvely declared, that I could not
do
> r
T' ' H I S T O R T OF
do mhthout her, ilie coidd not well refuse me.
— -- -- - — It was awkward to have no lady with me ^
I could not think of any, as you were at such a distance, half so agreeable to my lord.. was the • person to be first considered, ars Kitty— — dear girt' was exceedingly rejoiced, to find that I succeeded with her mother; and being sensible how nice my lord is in his opinion about women, it was paying her a great compliment, to fele6t her from the rest of our acquaintance; stnd stie exprested a modest acknowledgment for this preference, which still rxiore and
more recommended her to my lord -- -- -- Mr. Wilmot
behaves with the utmost politeness to her, and even seems desirous of amusing her; but Kitty, I believe, sees nothing of the lover in him. — As my lord chooses to be much with me alone, they also are frequently left by themselves, yet does (he always return to us, with a seriousness and anxiety in her countenance, which induces me to fear, that stie is distatisfied. — Were I quite sure that Wilmot was the cause of her anxiety and seriousness, I would send her home, ~ Time, absence, and another lover might cure her,
'— I femetimes mention our leaving this place; tut stie never hears of our departure from hence, without weeping, because stie knows that her mother will not invite Mr Wilmot to her house;; woiilsi
he go, I believe, if stie did. -- - — Kitty, however,
norwithstanding her partiality for Wilmot, behaveb ' to him with a delicate reserve, which is extremely ' proper— — must, certainly, have a good opinion ofher; arid when a man esteems such a girl as her,
he may be loon brought to love her. -- -- -- But then"
he ms only a fma!! fortune. — How must we settle ' that with Mrs. dov/nton? Hbw will he, Indeed, who has she most generous and ciifinterested heart, be able to think of offering it to a lady, with nothing' more considerable tacked to it, than his very moderate income? -
Lord
LORD WOBURN. 235
Lord Woburn, unknown to me, made a considerable addition to the jointure which had been before agreed upon between him and Mr. Elliot for me, with an additional five hundred a year to my pill money; which that gentleiitan thought unnecessary.
I asked my lord the other day, if he began to grow' tired of me?
Why that question, niy dear Charlotte said he, a little surprised.
Because you seem, by your generosity, to lay a greater stress on money than love. — Now, as I airr extremely happy in being’so loved by you at present, 1 want the less to be enriched; a much smaller funi would be fully sufficient to enable me to appear with you; and while you are so obliging as to give rne your company, I Shall not run about frorn place to place, merely to Show my clothes and my jewels.^’
He laughed : called me an excellent creature i and Said, he had not made that Supplement to my income to bribe my sondness, but to Show that he placed the highest confidence in me being astured, that I had a heart not to be corrupted by money or the world.
I thanked him for so Striking a proos of his esteem, but told him, that as he had a larger Sortune than he knew what to do with, I thought I could put him in a way to enjoy it in a luxuiious man fier.
“Speak, my life, ” cried he, “whatever you propose must merit my approbation.”
I then ventured to hint, that if he could do anything for Wilmot, So as to make him acceptable to Mrs. Downton, her daughter would, I believed, be quite happy; adding, however, th at Kitty had not dropped a Syllable relative to her inclination for Wilmot, and that her prudent behaviour h ad very much increased my esteem fer her.'
. “I do
2^6 H I S T O R Y O r
I
I do not think, ” replied he, Smiling significarlt ly at me, “that Harry can So readily change the object of his afsedtion; but I will talk to him.”
Poor Kitty looked at me this morning, with her eyes Sull of tears, and told me, that 1 was the happiest woman in the world,
“I Sreely consess I am, my dear; I hope you don’t envy me.”
“No, indeed, ” replied the blushing girl, “I think you deserve Such a charming man as my lord; but as you can have nobody else, now, it is a pity that any man who knows you Should be unhappy, because he cannot be in my lord’s place.”
“I am quite of your mind, ” Said I Smiling, “but' I cannot suppose that any man Should be So, because he is not.”
“All the men I ever knew, ” replied She, “' prefer you, in their hearts, to all other women.”
“How is this, Kitty !” Said my lord, who overheard her, while he was coming into the room, “if that’s the case, I must begin to be jealous j a rnong So many rivals, one. Surely, may Stand a' chance of Succeeding in my charlotte’s Savour.”
“Kitty, my lord, is, from the excess ofher friend sliip, too partial to me; She, therefore, hastily imagines, that all men See me with her eyes.”
They all See you with the eyes of admiration, moult certainly replied my lord, “have I not then an intolerable Slrare of vanity, to believe myself pre serred by you, my love, to all other men ?”
I will not tell you what answer I made; it would make you think, perhaps, that lam too ■ Sond of him 5 and yet, certainly, I cannot posebly be too Sond of him, as he almost adores me. — — He can Scarce bear me out of his Sight a Single moment; he gratifies every wisli of my heart, and even watches to read'my very thoughts, that he may Sly to prevent my desires. ■ -«
But
jli A XX J 2 V v V_/ Jp vo In IN
But I will not add anymore, lest I Slrould weary you. So as to niake you repent of your having en ..couraged a correspondence with
Your asseftionate friend,
Charlotte Wobukx.
###§ #######§#§ ####? #######
a
LE T T E R LXXXI
Lord Wo B U R N to Mr. W i l m o t.
My health, my Spirits, are in a great measure
restored; - — my lovely Charlotte deserves to
'be mentioned as the chies cause of my recovery.
To her I am indebted for my present exis1: ence, and for every blesting I enjoy. I cannot Say half enough in her praise — I never could have believed it possible for any woman to be So excellent' — She not only ftu i diously endeavours, with the utmost Solicitude, to make me happy, but to confer ail the felicity in her power upon my friends. In consequence of this most laudable propensity of her’s, I have formed a Scheme ■ to Settle our dear Harry, I hope, to his Satisfaction, You will laugh, I am Sure to hear that I, after having So long eniertained a vile opinion of woman. Should turn matchmaker— — do not by any means like thc chatabler; but when I See two people whom .1 think capable of making each other happy, is they were but Set in the right way, I cannot help .wisliing to ailift them. — With this design I have attacked your brother about Kitty. — “She is a lovely girl, Harry, Said I — but I Slrall not expatiate upon her person, her disposition is amiable, and Sire
has
n 1 o 1 w IN X r
has a very good heart — how, indeed, can fire have a bad one, as ilie has been from her infancy taught to love and revere my Charlotte } — Such a girl mud prove a good wife, and I now experience what I always believed to be an undoubted truth, that an honourable connexion with a gentle, tender creature, who yet wants .Dot llrength of understanding to make her a useful companion, is worth a thousand of your male friendllrips.’ -- -- I believe you,
my lord/’ cried Karry; but as your loistsliip has got the only woman in the world who can be such a companion, nobody elfe can venture to encourage any very flattering expectanons.’^
Kitty is the next best replied I, you iovc lady Woburn, I know"'
Fie, my lord, ’’ said he, actually looking a baflied, to Sind that I Saw he had not conquered his pasiion.
Kitty ]ovc5 you, Harry though he mcddtly does all she can to conceal it; — and does not a man sta d infinitely a better chance to be happy with a v/o ^ inan who has an aifdftion for him, than by marrying a woman whom he himself loves, but who perhaps likes Somebody better.”
Well, I believe you may be right; ” answered he, after a little hesitation, but I cannot pretend to Miss Downton, my lord -- -- -- -- -- niy fortune is nothing.”

If that is your only objection, lady Woburri and I can instantly remove it ■ — She nivrkes Kitty a present of ten thousand pounds, and Kitty will give herself with that fortune, to nobody but Harry Wih.dot.” «
‘‘ Oh! Tiny lord, this must not be — you quite " oppress me with fncli unmerited generosity— — cannot deserve it.”
You do defervelt — you shall make lady Woburn
and me happy, by marrying Kitty. -- -- -- -- -- -- Pity the >
poor
1
X IX VW U V IX IN. z.39
•poor Sighing girl, who is as innocent as She is lovely, and who, I may truly compare toshakespear’s Viola, who, “never told her love, but let .concealment, like a worm in the bud, feed on her damask cheek.’ ' — Gan there be a more inviting image in nature ?” ’
He owned there could not — yet hung his head,., and Sighed
I left him (we were in the garden) and going in Search of my own angel, met Kitty.
“Hasten, my dear girl to Harry, ” Said I, “who is taken extremely ill.”
“Oh! where, where .?” cried She all in a flut -- ter.
Away Sire flew, and I followed her j but jusc before they met, I Slipped behind a hedge, unobserved.
“bless me, Mr. Wilmot, ” exclaimed the tender girl, quite out of breath, “what’s the matter.? My lord tells me, you are very ill; where is your pain ?” added She, looking up in his face with a Sweet anxiety.
Poor Harry, who was walking with folded arms and down calt eyes, raised the latter to look on the pretty enquirer — reading in her eyes ail that I told him, and more, I fuppose, he took her hand, and Said, “Where is ycur pain, my dear mifsdownton, for you Seem much disordered?”
“Who, I .?” replied Sire, “No indeed, I fsiould have been very well if my Icrdaad not frightened me
So.”
“With what ?” Said Harry.
“v/ith telling me you were lick, Mr. Wilmot.” ’
As Soon as these words escaped her, the poor girl was ready to expire with Shame. — A biush like
Scarlet, covered her face and reck. -- -- - — She could
hardly Support lierself; her limbs trembled.
He Saw her confusion, and by his change of countenance, and behaviour was, I dare believe, more touched by it, than, by anything he had ever observed

240 HISTORY of
Served in her. — -- -- -- -- He caught her instantly'
in his arms, clasped her to his bosom with real tenderness, and thanked her for her kind concern.
She broke hastily from him, and covering her
Sace, ran to my wife’s dresting room. there Sire
remained all day, telling Charlotte how improperly She had behaved, and that She was quite .aslramed to See Mr. Wilmot.
My dear Charlotte, who was not less pleased with, her delicacy than myself, endeavoured to prevail on her to eontpjer her timidity upon the occasion — — -
but to no purpose.. when She appeared the next
day, She was much disconcerted, and in Such a violent tremor, that Sire could hardly speak or look up.
This behaviour of her’s made more impresiion upon Harry, to his honour be it mentioned, than either her youth, beauty, Sortune,. or connexions.
d was pleased with her becoming terrors, I was Still more Satisfied with the very proper manner ia which She conducted hersels. — He treated her with an uncommon respect, mixed with a kind of tender n.ess, which I had never, till then, perceived in him.
-- -- but the more he distinguiflied her, the more'
She avoided him; and though Sire received his attentions about her with politeness, and with equal politeness returned them, She took care to thrown dignity into her carriage at the Same time, which sufficiently informed him, that Sire Mmuld not be thought too easy and yielding— — admired the discretion of a girl So young, and So very much in love — Sori am Sure Sire is very much in love with Harry.
After having complimented my Charlotte upon her young friend’s discreet reserve, I told Harry, that he might look round the world for a wife, and never find Such another.
He *
%
He acquiesced, and now pays his court to misir Downton, with the most respeusul asfiduity, who, though her little heart is ready to burit with joy, has command enough over hersels to hide hertrans ports; by So cuiog She has made Harry quite enamoured with her. -- -- But what is all this to my
Charlotte who Improves upon me every hour? — — A few days ago, She came running to me, and with a countenance, in which love and good-humour, in which every virtue, every grace were Strongly painted, Said, “My dear lord, among our friends, there is one we have Sorgot — r your little charge, Mr.
carey’s Son -- -- may I not See him? — You told me,
he was an amiable childl -- -
How I loved her for this excellence of heart! I Itrained her to my bosom, and replied, “You Slrall be this moment gratified.” - —
I Sent for the boy directly- -- has been So
carested by my wife and Kitty, that I suppose there will be no parting them. — r — Many and many a time, will young boswell think osthem, I dare Say, wffien he is at School. -- Hers a fine lad; and if the women
don’t Spoil him — r — take notice. Jack, I don’t mean lady Woburn, he may do very well. — Charlotte is, indeed, become So Sond oshim, that I am Sure She loves children, and will Shine no less in the character of a mother than a wife..
Tellme how you approve of harry’s attachment, and of the prospedt of a new sister. -- Our
next. bufiness wili be to jeeoncile Mrs. Downton to the match. ^;
your’s as usual,
'ta
w -- -- -- -- :
L T. F. T
• ■., ♦ * - ' »
» f * ■
^ ' i.. ■. s1 : t;. ■ / i ' ■ ' r
L E T T: E R lxxxiivi < i
>
'Sti t ’• - ■ > ..., ' ■ ' r. ' - i ' - S >, .■ 4., i;! ' > S
. Lady Woburn to Mrs.; .Blomer. ‘t ■'
My lord has chid me for nothing, Since I have been his, but my delaying to bring him acquainted iwithyouj whoin.he calls, and justly calls, my dearestlsrie: nd— — told him, that is you were not known to him h' was to you,, and had been a
longtime. -- -- -- -- 1 then took him to hsy cabinet, and
Spread all your letters before him, with the particular passages. relating to him, in those I had Sent
you, which I chose to trahscribe. -- -- -- -- ^ He told me, I
had given him a high treat; it asforded me, indeed, no Small Satisfaction'to observe the variations in his face while heiperufed the papers, though I ran the risk of being well nigh Smothered with his carcstes. — “You will make but a poor return, ” Said I, to him, laughing, “for all the love I have so long Selt for you by taking away my breath.” - — He almost Smothered me, notwithstanding all my remonstrances against the impetuous proofs of his sondness form. — : He admires your Style and Sentiments, my dear Mrs. Blomer, So much, and is So envious of my regard. for you that he told me the other day, he Should he very jealous, unless I permitted him to have a Share in the correspondence between us— —
you consent ..? — Indeed you must'. -- -- -- -- -- Sori have
Swmrn to obey, and my inclinations are Stronger jhan my duty.
Kitty is, I hope, In a Sair way to be as happy, as her little heart can wish to be — and as I may with truth add, Sire deserves to be; for She has conducted herself with a delicacy and propriety really astonisli
ing
.4
— ^ —.. — — — -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
ing both to my lord and me. — In a tete-a-tete, yefh terday, I told her how'’ charmingly She had behaved. — “il hope, ” continued I, “that Mr Wilmot has behaved entirely to your satissadlion, as I have observed an agreeable change in his manners.”
“I have not a Single Sault to find with Mr, Wilmot, ” replied sl>e, with a Sigh, “his behaviour is too flattering to Such a girl as I am; but my mother will never approve of any man except Sir Charles Conyers; I cannot think as She does, yet I love her too well to disoblige her.”
A Shower of tears Sollowed these Sew words. -- -- -- -- -
I begged her to be comforted; and astured her, that both my lord and myself would do everything in
our power to Sorward Mr. wilmot’s interest
•»
thanked me, but I believe She has Small hopes of success — Poor girl! when I reflect on what 1 have sussered for my lord, I Seel most sensibly for this most amiable young creature.
My lord, at my desire, has let me have little bof well, Mr. carey’s Son; he is quite a little cherubim, -- -- -1 have kisted him So much, that my lord threatens to take him from me, and never to let me See him again.
I am Sent for to Mr. Wilmot, who is Suddenly indisposed — must, theresore, conclude. — — — —
i
L E Tj
LETTER LXXXIII
Lord Woburn to Mr. Wilmot.
(
DON’T be too much alarmed at the cxpress which I dispatched to you. Our Harry is better; but his illness has coil Kitty Downton Sliowers of tears j to her concern and attentions, his recovery may be, in a great measure, I believe, attributed. — He told me, as Soon as he became better, that he had been exceedingly flattered about my dangerous Situation, Sudden marriage, cc. che might have added, his paslion for my wife, though he very prudently Suppressed that addition) but that the uncommon discretion osmiss Downton, and the sweetness ofher temper, together with the great esteem and anxiety She had discovered for him, had quite gained his afsedtion; that he was asraid, however, there would be Some disficulty In bringing her Samily to approve of a younger brother.
I bade him hope for everything from my charlotte’s friendly offices joined to mine.
He prelsed my hand, and thanked me.
Imagining that my wife had confined herself too much during harry’s illness, because She was will ling to See him properly attended, and because she was unwilling to leave Kitty by herself, I made them "both get into the coach, as Soon as he grew better,
to take the air. — -- We went to ciiesden.
When we were within a mile of that beautisul Spot, we pasl a post-chaise which was overturned— — were two ladies in it who, by their out cries, were certainly frightened, and, perhaps, hurt.
My
^ * f ^ ^ ■m W mm m
My dear Charlotte, whose ears are even qpen to sounds of diftrels, (lopped the coach, and deiired
that we might offer our affidance -- -- -- -- We both got
out directly.
On my advancing to entreat the ladles, who were just disengaged from their carriage by their fervantsj to accept of places in mine, I immediately recognised one of them" — and started back. — “It is Mrs. Mead, ” said I, in a whisper to my Charlotte, “(hall we return home, and only send the servants to take care of them ?”
“By no means, replied (he, with a benevolent fniile which made her look mod angelically : “Were I in such a (ituation, my lordy (liould I not be pained to find Mrs. Mead' able, but unwilling to assist me ?”
“Charming creature !” replied I, and then walked again to the ladies. — My wife, in the mofl‘obliging manner, expressed her concermfor them, and deiired to know if (he could accommodate them at lead till they had recovered their fright.
Mrs. Mead, more (liocked at the sight of us than at the overturning of the carriage, changed colour, and thanked lady Wobutn, but was going to decline our osier, when her companion inter^led, saying, that (he with pleasure recolle£led lady Woburn; having Spent several days with her at Eudon cadle, and that (he (hold be happy in having the honour of renewing her acquaintance with her.
My Charlotte remembered her, as (he had seen her at the Cadle the Summer before we met in — — — (hire. — I had, therefore an opportunity, after having made room for the ladies, and after having, found them more frightened than hurt, to alk about Sir Francis and lady Eudon, from whom I had not heard since they mentioned their intended Bath journey. — ■ “They are there now, ” returned the lady, whom I had never seen till then j “I have this morning had a litter from lady Eudon. — She is in the greated dif
trefi
tress at her Sister harriot’s being just married to a hais pay osficer, who has already had, it is imagined, two wives. — ^ — It is also Said that he was kept for Some time by lady spilsbury; but that, on his growing clamorous Sora larger allowance out ofher jointure, She threw him in the way osher intimate friend miss Facely, who was married to him yesterday morning at the Abbey, without informing her Samily of her design.”
You may imagine how we all looked at each other on this piece of intelligence j it amused us a little for a Sew hours, but as our intelligencer being rather of too communicative a disposition for my wise to desire an intimacy with her, we Set her down with Mrs. Mead, at the house of the latter, who lived, We found, in a very elegant little house about two miles from ciiesden. — Mrs. Btitler gave us Several invitations to her dwelling near her friend’s, but Mrs. Mead modestly and prudently was Silent upon that head. — I hope, theresore, She is changed for the better.
At our return we Sound Harry walking about his chamber. — Mrs. Downton was in the parlour, come to fetch her daughter, — — — The remainder in my next.
I
LED
^ ^ -- r w
0
»
>. ■ « '
,.. i
L E T T, E R LXXXIV
'■ ‘ J f
From the Same to the Same.
AS Soon as I had vvelcomed Mrs. Downton, who is a very agreeable woman, I carried her up into your brother’s room with her daughter and my wife, telling her that we had been Wt too long absent from our patient.
hlarry received her with great' respect— — trembled all over. — Soon afterwards, on her mother’s addressing lady Woburn, and Saying She was come to fetch her daughter, as Sire expected Sir Charles Conyers in town the next day, Kitty fainted away, unable to Sustain So Severe a Shock.
Harry, ' Sorgetting his own indisposition, Slew to aslist the lovely girl, and, railing her tenderly in his arms, recalled her to life by a thousand asreuionatc prestures to his Sond bosora,
Kitty, opening her eyes, looked satissadfion at the excesiive kindness of his behaviour; but all at once, Shrinking from his arms, with a deep Sigh, turned to Mrs. Dowhton, who had been; very ibiich alarmed at her Sainting, 'and'exclaimed, “My iriother! — I cannot bear to displease my dear mother, Mr. Wilmot, ” -- -- ' ' :.. ' ■, '
The discovery of this modesl tenderness for Harry, and her Still greater aftedtion for Mrs. Downton, who had been an excellent mother, touched lady Charlotte and me raost sensibly, and we both endeavoured to prevail ontvirs. Downton to receive your brother as her Son.. ”
J *

I cannot describe kitty’s joy. — The Sly girl, in or ' der to conceal it, made a frivolous excuse to go into her own apartment; but Harry Sound means to make her promise to return in a Sew minutes— — thing will, I'hope, be Soon Settled to their and your satissaqion. — -- -- Mrs. Downton has generouhy refused
my charlotte’s present 4 but we are absolute.
Thus you See my angel, as a mistress, friend, and wise, Slrines Superior to the greatest part osher Sex; and I can most Sincerely add, that Sire renders me
the happiest of men. -- -- -- IS women, in general, would
copy So exemplary a character, they would not find men So unwilling to, enter into the marriage ftate it is certainly very much in their power to make that State a State of wretchedness or felicity : • — the exemplary wise, itheresore, is a character which cannot be fashcieatly admired j it is justly to be revered,
^ f i N I s,
t 0
9
