p|necbotes
OF A
\
CONVENT.
i
'I
t
0
By the A u T H o R of
, «
MEMOIRS of Mrs. WILLIAMS.
'k
/
s
—. — .I,, — lir rri - - trnxr.dn^
i .> :
In THREE VOLUMES. ifl
'■*' i -. ■■‘V
i i W — — — — — i — — Mi — — — — — i — »
'ic r
lir VOL. I.
n
■ i '.''S ' isx'
LONDON,
Printed for T, Becket and P. A, de hondxj
in the Strand.,
M. DCC. LXXI., "
'\
I
^- -- L -- -- -■-■■
PREFACE.
My name, as ah Author, being totally unknown to the Public, I have had the pleasure of list’ning in Silence to the opinion of all my acquaintance, as well as most intimate friends, on the Memoirs of Mrs. will hams, none of whorii Sufpeisted me to be interested in what they said upon the Subject.
I found ^emany believ’d the book to be really a translation from the French, and good naturedly suppos’d “it might, perhaps, be better in the “originalthe Few discerning ones, were not deceiv’d: AH allow’d the story to be interesting, and not ill
A 2 told.
vi
IV preface;
told. The Ladies, in general, treated. the hook as a Novel, which bore no resemblance to truth, “since Mrs. “Williamses, character never could have existed in real life.” They, therefore ranked her Memoirs among the herd of that Species of writing, which pours upon us every year from the pens of worn out Chambermaids, and indigent Valet de Chambres, Cfr. c?r. Some of these Fair Ones
went sofar as to advise me not to
<
read the book, alfuring me, that it was not worth the perusal“ “was “so grave, and full of stupid digress“ “these judicious readers did not hiortify me, because I had bought the Review for the month of May, where 1 found myself treated
with the utmost good-humour, and
lenity i
P R E F A C E. V
lenity: The compliments those Gentlemen So obligingly paid to the Author of Mrs. williams, I am persuaded she owed, in a great measure, to her Sex; yet she must be excused, if the .approbation of men of learning, and of taste, flatter’d her am^r proprs much more sensibly, than the eensunj of the illiterate could humiliate it.
Two or three persons, who were well acquainted with my history, easily put the real names to the characters drawn in Mrs. williams*a Memoirs; to them I could not be c.on cealed, and, therefore, fecur’d 'chief Secrecy, by candidly owning nayfelf the Author : They compliment : d me upon the language in which I had told my story; but Said that, ir \ their
opinion, there was very little n aerit in
‘putting
4
VI preface;
putting facts upon paper in a good style; since the first entirely depended upon memory; and the Second, on the
education which had been given us, and the company we had kept; declaring, at the same time, that they thought there was infinitely more merit in inventing an interesting story,
. than in telling a true one ever so well. I did not dispute the point with them, and thouofht no more of the matter at that time; but happening to go into the country some months after, where I Spent most of my time alone, being distant from any neighbourhood, the unfashionable occupations of reading, writing, and working, were my only amusements, and I confess that I found them quite fushcient to render retirement delightful. Here, in some
of
»
PREFACE. VII of my leisure moments, the assertion of my friends, with regard to the merit there was in invention, odjurr'd to me; and having nothing else to do,
I determined to try my genius in the Novel way; but I Soon perceived, that mine was a matter of fat one; for, whilst I wished to invent, I found a variety of incidents, which had really happened, crowd upon my memory, and in a manner .force me to narrate them; among these was the story of Mr. Merton; which, however improbable it may appear to my readers, was, I most firmly believe, a fast. Since I had the heads of it from the
i
% ^
Gentleman's own mouth, whose his
/
it is; and whose add refs and manner, owing (as he said) to the effeminacy of his education, were (upon
my
VIII ' P R E F A C E.
my honour) just Such as I have describ’d them; I myself have Seen him work at his needle, and paint fan mounts, for days together.
With the utmost truth I declare, that I do not admire my own performance; it amused me whilst I wrote ' it; and if it Serves to fill up an hour or two of the vacant time which hangs so heavy on that part of my Sex, who read no other books than Novels, my end will be doubly answer’d; since, at least, during that space of their existence, they will (I am certain)" be
innocently employed.
t
r
r »
% ^
I '
L E TI


L E T T E R S
I ‘ ^ ' •
/
4. i - ^.
BETWEEN, ' ' '
\ ^
The Right Hon. Lady Lu C y Sc o t T ..andthe'hon. Miss ^o'lto^. ^
O' KI ' ' i !s
ci
. .' ■
The Right Hon. Lady Lucy Scott
to the Hbh. Miss Bolton.,, ' •
-1
YO U will see, by the date of - V this letter, where I anl: Heavens'! - what could in l^ duce this good godmother of mine, ' to insist upon my making her a viflt. this Summer r I flrall be dead of the vapours in Ids than a week : "Bus ■, hush !’ My worthy mother tells me, that the only way to be happy in = this life, is to accommodate one’s I' ol. I, B ‘‘ bet

I. * •
• ■'
’. * ' ■! ' ■ A
t 2 1
behaviour, and taste, to those of the “people with whom we aflbciate; ”
I believe she is in the right, but the difficulty lies in the practical part of. this rule; however, if discord must be the consequence of every one's pursuing their own humour, it is clear Somebody must give way; and in that cafe, I think, the lot falls justly upon the youngest : This argument being mostjudgematically chosen, and most logically proved, I shall proceed, in order to show my dear Julia, that 1 pradtise what I preach, by informing., her, that in obedience to my parents request, I last Friday left Tatton Lodge, after having taken an affectionate leave of my family, (who, by the bye, were cruel enough not to shed one tear at my departure.) I got into my father’s post chaiife, accompanied by my maid Susan. As we were driving
from ^
%
• *
\
[ 3 3
\
from the door, my mbther waved her hand at me, land. Smiling, called out,
‘ '‘adieu, ma ehere jfu'k *, nst>gue la gatere. ”
I was not in a humour to be joked with, and therefore continued Silent for some moments; when Susan (you know she has lived with me ever since we were both children) interrupted my reverie, by saying“ “dear Lady,
“you look so grave upon this jour“ “that I begin to fear we shall have a dull time of kat Ivy Cajlle\
“yet, surely, there are green trees,
“and fields, in the place, and liberty for a body to walk among them;
“then, the fun shines there, I supr“ “as well as at Tati on Lodge,
“and the pretty birds fing; besides
** shall have meat to eat, and a
^ r
“good bed to rest on at Sir jaffeps,
urnmtmmmm m .......„ mm
* A French phrase,
B 2 “and
[ 4 1
“and with all these things, I thinks one cannot be otherwise than cheer“ “and happy' The just estimation which poor Susan had made of the neceflfaries of life, as well as of its pleasures, struck me; and made me ashamed to find, that she possessed, in that moment, more Solid judgement, and real good sense, than her mistress Her taste has not been vitiated by the pursuit of false pleasures, (said I to myself, sighing)) therefore,, the beauties of Nature, and the necelfaries of life, may at all times render her happy show much more rational are her ideas of pleasure than mine! Mortified by the comparison, I had just been making between Susan and myself,
I answered the girl in the mildest and gentlest accent, (the tone of Humiliation you know, my Dear,) “What y. you observe is very just, Susan, and
y I
Is]
‘‘ I make no doubt but we shall Spend our time at Sir Jafpeds, if not de lightfully, yet comfortably enough;
“and if I looked gravely at leaving “home, it was because 1 never separate myself from my parents with“ “sorrow, though for ever so short ' “a time, ” Here a turnpike interrupted the. conversation, apropos enough I thought, as I perceived very, .sensibly, that I was playing an under part, for Susan certainly had the better of me. Thus we jogged on, till we
came to: -- --, where we were to dine.
As we turned into the inn yard, Susan, pulling me by the sleeve, said“ ““Lady Lucy, do see what a pretty “looking Gentleman that is in blue ” and gold.” I was knotting, and, therefore, had not perceived a coach and six, which, it seems, turned into the inn just before my chaise. I now
B 3 raised
I
[ 6 ]
iaifed my eyes, which met those of the most graceful figure I ?ver beheld, who, with a genteel bow, offered me his hand to help me out of my carriage. I accepted it, rather auk ward ly, I believe, because, very ridiiculoiif ly, I felt myself confiised. A Beau was no new sight, Julia, but this Bean! — Well, he handed roe into the room destined by the landlord for my reception, aad then, with an expref stve look, and a sow bow, retired, but BOS before, he had Said a great deal about the honour of having pofststed my hand, though but for a moment, and much more to the Same purpose; which was lost upon me, for there was Such a neife in the inn, and my Spirits were in Such a flutter, that I did not hear half he Said. As Soon as he was gone, Susan exclaimed, “Well, Madam, am I in tyre right?
“U
[ 7 ]
t
\
Is not he a pretty Gentleman ^ and “he is a Nobleman, too, I dare Say, “for I Saw there was a coronet upon “the coach.” I, Smiling, replied, “That indeed may ornament his equipage, but can never be any recommendation to himself, at least in my opinion.” Here the dinner entered, and my Servants coming in to waif, I ashed Thomas, carelessly, whose coach that was in the inn yard? He answered, “It is the Earl of kelfd.s, “Madam; they are going to Scot -- “land, and the young Gentleman, “who ashed me So many questions “about your Ladyship, I find is their “only Son; they called him Lord “Something, but I have really forgot “the name.” This information entirely stopped my mouth from all farther inquiries, as I apprehended Thomas to be of a communicative dif
B 4 position
/
\
8 ]
position, and, therefore, thought all I said would, probably, be related to the. earl’s servants: But my maid was not so cautious; Thomas, says she, did you tell the young Lord where my Lady was going to? Tes, replied the fellow, and his Lordship seemed pleased at hearing that my Lady was going to Ivy Cajile, as he said he knew Sir Jasper Hackit very well, and his father’s seat was not above Sixty miles distant from the Castle. I am glad to hear it, with all my heart, said Susan, because, if Sir jaf peds family should prove stupid, a. viflt from this young Gentleman will enliven the scene a little. Here I interrupted the volubility of my maid, by ordering Thomas to inform me when Lord Kelfo was gone, and then to get my chaise ready immediately; he obeyed, ’ and I left the inn without
feeing
C 9;
■feeing any more of ray Beau.. It was, late before we arrived at Ivy Cajile, where I found Sir Jasper and his Lady very uneasy at not feeing me sooner, as I was expected that evening; they received me with great ceremony, and Some friendship, I thought; however,
I was too much tired to make many accurate observations that niohtj but
O *
Such as they were you shall have them, in my next; So, for the present, let me go to bed, after aflliring you, that I, ana ever my dear Julid.% most flncere, and afledlionate friend,
Ivy Cajile. Lucy Scott.
Lady Lucy Scott to the Honour able
\
.1 r
Miss Bolton.
. ••
\
WHAT a taflt have I undertaken!
No, I never can describe this i, • family in colours which will do them
I
. : ^ justice:
»
i
* <
[ 10 ]
justice: I was going to bed, I think, when I finished my last letter, but observe, I supped first, for which purpose, after numberless curt’feys, bows, c. accompanied by the most minute inquiries after the health of every branch of my family, I was shown into a parlour, where a very elegant table was covered with a number of nice little dishes, and, at the back of two chairs, at the bottom of this table, stood two young nymphs, neither of whom appeared to be less than seventeen years of age, with napkins pinned before them like infants. Lady Hackit said to me, (with a careless air) as she was conducing me to my seat, “those are my daughters, Lady lucyv I immediately advanced, in order to Salute them, but she pulled me back, saying“ “beg your la* ship will give yourself no trouble
“about
V ^ —
%
[ H ]
• “about the childrenwhen. Seating herself, and me, with a nod, in which there was as much ill nature as importance, she bid the girls sit down. This uncommon treatment of young women, pretty much of my own age, astonished me, and gave me no favourable opinion of their Lady mother, who, I could perceive, dressed, and treated them like babies, in order to make herself look younger than she is. As' Soon as the cloth was removed, 'she gave each of the girls a glass of wine, bidding them drink my health, and the family at Tatton Lodge; they did So, when, wishing us all a good night, they left the room : Lady Hackit, turning to me, observed, that children should always go to bed early.. Sir Jasper Sat all this while at the lower end of
the table, with a Silent, simpering.
.
t
i
I
V
[ 12 ]
4
•admiration of all his wife Said. tbe poor man Seems to me to have Sew, if any ideas of his own; if he ever poiseffed any before marriage,. Lady Hackit has esteftiially routed them out, and transplanted her own in their stead : He retains, however, (by her ladyship’s permiflipn, 1 suppose) a kind of old-fashioned ceremonious gallantry, vvhich is very fatiguing: He is in his figure very like my idea of a fpedlre, tall, thin, and grim; he moves, too, with a deliberation which would do no dishonour to the dignity of a ohost.
I wondered all this time that Mr. Hackit, the Son and heir of this noble pair, had not yet made his appearance; and therefore thought it but civil to inquire after him. Sir jaf per, bowing. Said, that his Son was peculiarly unhappy in being obliged
to
t
[131
to be absent when I honoured’ Cafde with my presence, but that business of importance had forced him from home' for a few days, to his infinite mortification and regret, since, by that means, he was deprived of the pleasure of my agreeable company. Lady Hackit here interrupted sir Jasper, by saying (patting at the same time my knee gently with her hand,) “he will return in a few days, “Lady Lucy,, and then, ' I think “you’ll own that he is a pretty “Gentleman; it is incredible, Ma“ “how he is improved by his
travels.” I frniled, pleaded fa ♦ '
tigue, and' want of steep, so curt’sy’d off to bed. The next morning, after breakfast, I visited every corner of this noble mansion, and then sat down to give you a description of it, so here it follows.
■ ■ Ivy
»
I «4 1
Ivy Cajile is a very large, handsome, gothic strudnre, built round a court, which forms a Square; in the midst of which there is a balbrt of water, and a jet d.eau, which Spouts out of the breasts, mouth, ears, eyes, cof a very ugly, ill shaped mermaid, and keeps drippings and dribbling, all day long, till it wears one to a thread with its monotony, as well as, the nasty ideas it presents to ones imagination; the rooms are antique, large, and lofty; the windows, being calements, make the apartments dark, to add to which, the walls are covered over with ivy, laurel, and fifty other ever greens, which obstrudl the light, and harbour all kinds of insects;; furniture is old, but has an air of grandeur in it, which Suits the castle better (in my opinion) than if it was
more
[ *5 ]
more modern : In these immenie high rooms three or four dozen of little dapper French chairs would be lost, and all our jimmy, fashionable ornaments, look as if a baby's house had been rifled, and its furniture transported hither : but, on the contrary, the chairs here have backs a yard and half long, and are, befldes, extremely high in the Seats, which Lady Hackit judiciously remarked, made young people Set upright, and prevented them from crossing their legs unperceived; her observation was just, for unless one. was a gi antess, ones feet must always be ew
79 • ■
I air.
The gardens are vast. So is the ' park, but quite in the ancient style; there you may at once See, men,
f In the air, or oif the grouhd.
women.
: L [ J
, women, lions, monkeys, flower potsv and fun dialsi st cut out in yew in short, the place, and its owners, are of a piece, and, as the Painters Say, there is great keeping throughout the whole.
I have, for these two days past, * been in search after those fine girls' which 1 see like apparitions twice a' day, that is to say, at dinner and Supper, for they never breakfast with " • us : What part of the house they inhabit I know not, but I cannot find their apartment, nor dare 1 inquire, because on my expreshng to their mother, the desire I had of conversing with her daughters, I found, -
. by her la’ship’s answer, that any
»
connedlion between them and me,
■ would be highly displeafing to her Lady Hackit observed, that they were tco much children, to be any companions
.y
} •
I
t '7 ]
panions for me; that now was their time to improve themselves, for which reason she kept them to their needle:
“They are working me a bed in chain “stitch, together with four window “curtains, twelve small chairs, backs “and bottoms, with two great armchairs, to stand on each flde the bed; ‘
“the pattern’s a full one, to be Sure, but they’ll all Soon be done; for I take care that the .girls are at their work at six in the morninsj in
O
“Summer, and they are not Suffered “to quit it till the fun sets, except “when you see them, which is at their “meals. idleness is the ruin of youth, and I do not intend my girls for fine Ladies, but for good house“ “Here fly paus’d' and I answered, that certainly her La,, V as a much better judge of education than I could possibly be; but that, I apprehended, there were vol. I. C many
\
[ >8 i
many things necessary for young Ladies to be instrudted in, besides needlework. O I yes to be sure, replied fly, in a quick tone of voice, the girls can read a chapter in the Bible very prettily; nay, I believe they have read it, and the New Testament, two or three. " times quite through. I found there was no arguing with a head So constructed as her ladyfliip’s, therefore changed the Subject, as you may do, after I'shave bid you adieu. My dear * Julia, yours, with the utmost impatience to hear from you.
Ivy Cafle, j ^ C ^
Lucy Scott,
I ■ I — i — 'W ■■■ — imm nmmm ■ ■ ■> m
From the Same to the Same.
I Cannot think why you don’t write, my Julia I I grow uneasy at your Silence; for god’s sake put me out of ' my pain, by a few lines, as Soon as
■
t 19 1
9
possible;; kills me; O, this mirror of all politeness, and epitome of all human perfections (if you could believe his parents) is arrived; need I say, Mr. Hackit? The other morning, as I was sitting at work in the music parlour, I heard a violent bustle an the court yard, when, looking through the window, I Saw a post-chaise, Surrounded by Servants, out of which got a young man, whom I instantly Supposed to be the 'Squire; I say sup posed, for though I have seen him, yet he was then a boy, and is now become, (by the help of his Taylor and Barber,) to all outward appearance, a very fine Gentleman : I hope he will not attempt to make his addresses to
I
me, Julia; yet I have some Suspicions of a Scheme, amongst these old folks; no matter, my name fliali never be Hackit, I promise you. I Sat myself down, with a flounce, to the” '
C 2 harpsi
[ 20 ] •
f
harpsichord, after making the above resolution, and began rattling the keys, to. drown thought, when the door flew open, and in stalked the gigantic Sir Jasper, leading his puppy of a Son by the hand, my Lady following close behind; this group of grotefqiie figures had, really, very near fcrprized me into a laugh; however, a moment’s reflection recompofed my features, when Sir Jasper begged leave to present Mr. Hackit to me; the youth advanced, bowing to the ground, then, falling on one knee, kilted the hem of my apron, to show me (I fuppose) that he had made the grand lour. I received him as the heir of the mansion, that is to say, very civilly : He now seated hiinself next me, and began, with all the luxury of studied eloquence, to expatiate on his sufferings, in being compelled £0 lose, bv his absence from the Castle,
So
t, 2j ]
So much of my agreeable company; vowed, he had neither eat, drank, or slept, since he heard of my arrival there So great was his impatience for the honour of Saluting my fair hand.
I gazed at him with wonder; he appeared to me a real curiosity : When, taking my box from my pocket, I offered him a pinch pf Snuff, which action of mine broke, I believe, the thread of his ideas; ic interrupted the conversation, however, which was all I meant by it: As I was at that moment tired to death of him, his family, and the house, my Spirits were worn out, and I reduced to a state of stupi fadion, yet I thought I miust talk; so, looking in his face, without an / idea in mine, I Said, Mr. Hackit, I have a notion you Sing very well, pray do ' favour me with a Song I He appeared Surprised at this abrupt proposicion, as well as at the careless, absent mane
3 ner
AA
ner in Vv'hich I made it; 'and answered, No, indeed, Madam, I have no voice; but I have heard that your Ladyship both plays and sings divinely; “f. “shall, therefore, esteem it as a great “favour, if you will perform upon “the instrument, which you V as “touching so harmoniously, when I “entered the room.” I complied with his request instantly, glad to do anything to avoid a tete-a-tete with him, which appeared to me to have been concerted, by his father and mo' ther’s quitting the room almost the instant they had presented him to me. Sure, my dear, these antiques do not suppose I will ever marry the egregious coxcomb, their Son? And yet I be sieve they do: And my father and mo' ' too, why did they send me here i IF I guess right they will all find themselves much mistaken. I have twenty thousand pounds at my own difposal,
and
's
• ’
X
-[ 23 ]
and no man shall have it, without he
)
■ strst takes posteffion of my heart. My parents are too generous to force my inclination, nor will I ever marry a gainst theirs, but I will have my own choice, or die, Single, that is determined. Is it not odd, my dear, that .we hear nothing of Lord kelfd.s, family all this time? But what is Lord. Kelfds Son to me, you will say ^ Why •nothing toshe Sure, only Thomas told' me, that he knew Sir Jafpeds family .very well, and Sometimes visited here;
•well. So much the better, I wish ha ' would come, for I long to see an a greeable object; .these Hackits, and their connexions, are insupportable,
(at least all those which I have hitherto,,, '
•,) I must, however, except my little Kitty (Sir Jafpeds eldest daughter) from the group; fly and I have, contrasted an intimacy, by conversing. with each ocher with'our eyes; for
C 4.. we
\
[ 24. ]
■ \ i \
we dare not Speak; Pe, for fear of being beat, and L for fear she should: however, yesterday, as I was Sitting a lone in my dreshng room, I heard a gentle tap at the door;. I rose and \ opened it; but judge of my Surprise, oil perceiving my young friend enter the room; I received her with joy; she begged a million of pardons for this intrusion, (as fly called it)
'aflliring me, at the same time, that her' desire of converting V ith me was irresistible. “indeed. Lady imcy, (Said the poor girl) “I have watched for “an opportunity of paying my re“ “to you, in your own apart“ “ever Since you came to this “gloomy manflon, ' but in vain till “today, when my mamma is Settling “her accounts with Thompson, the “housekeeper, which she docs always “once every month, and I know they y will be lliut up together for at least
> “these[
[ ]
i
these two hours.” I took the Sweet girl by the hand, and afllired her of the pleasure I felt on feeing her alone, and the pain it had cost me, in having been obliged to treat her with so much reserve before Lady Hackit: She thanked me in the warmest terms for so doing, saying, I should be miserable, indeed, if my mother thought that your Ladyship had honoured me with the least part either of your friendflrip or regard, for in that case she would immediately forbid me not only to Speak to you, but would, probably, no longer fufler me to look at you; and, indeed, added the poor creature, that would break my heart, Lady Lucy.
I aflced her why her Sister had not accompanied her! She answered, because having had the headache most part of the morning, she had not been able to finish her taflt, and was
(now that her head was rather better)
endea
[ 26 ]
endeavouring, by working hard, to make up her lost: time, as their mamma always' came to them before dinner, toexamine whether they had done their morning’s talk or not on the chain stitch’d bed. I pitied these two poor bpprefied girls from my heart, yet did not chuse to censure the parent to the child, though my breast glowed with resentment, against the cruelty of Such treatment; I determined, therefore, to try if I could not Soften, at least, the rigour of their fate, through their bro ther’s means, whom I knew to be all powerful with Lady Hackit', for as to' the father, he was a mere cypher, I found : In order, therefore, to find out isi/zy’s Sentiments of Mr. Hackit,, I ailced her if he was not very uneasy at feeing her and her sister so much confined as they were “O, dear! “no. Madam, replied the innocent “girl, he always wants us out of the
“wav.
[ 27 ] ■
“way, saying, that girls are a burden “upon an estate, wishing there were “nunneries in this island, as .there are “in countries which he has travelled through, that we might be placed “in one of them for life. My mo“ “says, it is no matter, for we.
“shall never marry with her consent“
“without it we are sure not to “have a shilling. So vte know our fate;
“my brother will have all; and, in“ “Madam, (here she wiped her “eyes,) I shall most willingly refjgn “my share of my father's fortune, if “by that means he can procure to “himsdf So charming a woman as your Ladyship for a wife, and to “me so amiable a Sister.” Me his wife !' exclaimed I, out of breath with, anger and Surprise! my dear child, how could .ever Such a thous; ht come
, O
into your head? I beg your ladysnip’s pardon, replied the girl, as red as fire
with
[ 25 ]
with fright, I thought the match had been agreed on, by all parties, before you came here; I arh sure I always understood it So. — Here is a diabolical. piece of bufiness for you, my Dear! — Poor Kitty, with tears in her eves, en
y * 4 *
treated, .that what fly had inadvertently said, might be forgiven, as well as be kept a profound Secret from her ' mother; to both which articles I most readily agreed; we then parted, after having promised to converse with each other, as often as we possibly could, unobserved.
You in Sifted, my dearest: Jiilia,. ■ that I should send you an exact journal of every' moment of my time,, actions, and thoughts, whilst at this place; the length, and tediousness of my letters will, I fear, make you repent of your rash request; if so, give me a hint, it will Save me a great deal of trouble, and you no Small fatigue;
ill[
[ ]
in return, you are engaged to narrate faithfully the history of your heart, that heart, which so condescendingly Suffers, and which 1 would die to ease. Adieu, my amiable friend, write, or I shall be truly miserable.
Ivy Cajile. Lucy Scott.
/
»
The Honourable Miss Bolton to Lady lucyscott.
My dear Lady Lucy's three last letters have afforded me infinite amusement, though' I am Sorry you dislike your present Situation; it was like yourseff, my Dear, to comply with Lord and Lady longfdowps request, that you would Spend a few months with their old friend, and your god mother: Let Self approbation (that balm of life) Support your Spirits: Ah,
Lucy! II eji bien facile d'etre heureux, y guant on eji northeast avec, beau coup de bien,
', y d'efprit,
\
t 30 J
I
d.’efprit, C de ante, C qtfon northeast fe foucie de person
When the heart is at rest, it is no .difficult matter to be cheerful at our age, 'yuu will allow; and if you cannot laugh with this antique couple, at leasc you may laugh at them; though',
■; to say the truth. Lady Hackifs ridiculous, not to say cruel, treatment of her daughters, is an object capable Tatler of exciting pity and Sorrow in ‘the humane breast, than mirth or laughter; all parents are not like youds, you see, my Lucy; nor all guardians like mine, you will answer'
'. readily acknowledge it; I am ignorant how my parents would have \
treated me, had they lived. Since I lost them in my earliest infancy; but I am thoroughly convinced, that it
. I, I .1 ■■■ mm..... m... 1 1..
It is very eafyto be happy when one’s born to a large fortune, with a good understanding, perfect health, and that one cares for nobody.,
'Abbe.st. real'sfharatter of Atticus.
would
I 31 3
would not have been in their power to have taken a more tender, and af festionate care of me, than the worthy
t
Mr. and Mrs. Boothhy have done.
Alas! they have made me wretched, from their excess of delicacy, and too
^ ^ I
refined notions of the important trust my father placed in them, when he committed his child and fortune to their care. How strange it is, that no ■me being should be capable of constituting the happinefsof another! These good people are really persuaded, that, by opposing my union with their Son Harry, they Save me from ruin, and' themselves from dishonour; whereas, the is, that, in so doing, they' / make me miserable, break Harry's.. heart, and render themselves censura -- ble for their obduracy. v/hy did my fond parents (for Such I am told they were) leave me so large a fortune! A tenth part of it might have.
made
I 32 ]
¥
¥
made me happy with my Harry \ without him what are riches? — But why do I torment you, my lovely. friend, with my complaints ?- Yet, to you alone I can unbofoin' myself, and ithe ftibjedl is .familiar to you, flnce you was my confidant when we were children at School togetheryoif must remember, that even then'harry Boothhy was my constant theme y I Iqved him almost as fboii as I could, either see or speak: : was but three years old when Mr. Booth by .took me from the arms of my expiring parent, and conveyed me to his own jrouse; ' there I first saw his youngest Son; he be came niy playfellow, my compa’. ' nion, nay, frequently, my nurse, *,. 'mai being thrte years older than I, he had wsfm me osten in his arms; burr innocent carelfes were then unreproved; a las! why were they So I pprasher, why are, • they So no longer.? ik^m unhappy,
(s rny
1
I
C 33 1
my Dear, and how shoulcil be wise, when my Harry is tofp frqm tne, and senti know not whither? Yesterday I ashed Mr. Boothhy (s5 .1 fr quently do) how his Sop did? Ffo ^pfwered, with a Serious air, “Ypii “do the boy honour, Madam > he is, I thank God, very well, and, I hqp^>
“in a fair way (by his industry) gf “making a fortune.'’ Provoking creature! Why must he be put tp hufiness, who shall be master of pnp hundred thousand pounds, as ibon as ever it is in ihy power to give it him.
Not long since I ashed my Guardian, whether, if Harry had been bis eldest, fon, he would have consented to my,
^nion with him? He Smiled at th? question, and replied, miss Bolton
fpoft certainly I should npt» since n
sin of mine wul ever be poflest^d Qf ^ fortune worthy your acceptance. J answered ip a ft, I m already Vot.,. L D to
• I
[ 34 ]
too well convinced, Mr. Boothhy, that money is an idol, to which you would Sacrifice even the future happiness of your ward; but I must beg leave to tell you. Sir, that my Sentiments, are. vefy different from yours, since, whenever I become mistress of myself, and fortune, I am re Solved to marry the man I love, though he should not be ■worth a groat. “Perhaps, (replied the old gentleman“ “dear Julia will “think more rationally and less pas“ “upon this fubjedi before that “time arrives; if not, (continued he, “with a fighj I shall have done my “duty; but remember, my dear “young Lady, that your fortune is to : “be paid you on the day of your marriage only, on condition that ‘‘ you marry with my consent; if “contrary to it, then you are not to
I
“be mistress of a farthing till you are five ‘ and twenty .Such were, the > ^ prudent
t 35 ]
✓
i
prudent precautihhs your father ** took, to prevent your'flinging yourself away upon an indigent young “fellow.” 1 understood him, and could have slapped his honest face for the Sarcasm: : — rriy dear Mr. Boothhy, Said I, Softening my voice, and throwing all the tenderriess of my heart into my eyes, taking his hand at the Same time, and preshng it gently in mine, “Do tell me where Harry “is, and I will give my word of “honour not to correspond with him ?’* He looked at me with a tender concern, and replied, Do not rack me thus, my sweet girl; to deny yoii anything, Julia, is painful to rne; but, for reasons of importance,! can not answer your question, as to where he is; therefore, if you value my peace, you will not repeat it '; let it shstice you to know that he is well, and properly placed, though a thousand,, 2 miles
[ 3« 3
roiks from hence, and in a foreign kingdom. As he pronounced these last words I sighed, and fell back in ipychairiri a fwooii; on recovering inytenfes, I found rny Self Supported Jby my Guardian, and my face wet with his tears; when Observing that I revived, he clasped me to his breast with parental fondness, then railing
V
his eyes to heaven, exclaimed, Great .od t restore this lovely child to ijeace, and steel my heart against her ihelting fofthefs! Ah, rather, cried I, in a feeble voice, avert the prayer, just Heaven and awaken his Soul ho pity thbfi his cruelty will destroy : He turned from meto hide the emotion be felt at my distress; when Mrs. Boothhy, placing my head gently upon her bosom, said, ‘‘ Calm your Spirits, my dear girl, you break my heart to “see you thus afflicted 5 hope for the tt hf?st» my Dm Time, you know, is. \ ' - • a great
[ 37 ]
” a great mailer, and may, perhaps, ' “work wonders itt your favof. Cdfi “fider, Julia, that both you and “Uarty are rather too young yet ts “think of inatrimony.” Let tne but love him, Madam, 1 replied, attd I promiie you I \vill be in no haste to marry him. She answered me, with a Smile, “I fancy my leave is very “untiecellary on that Subjeist 5 how ever, (continued she,) let Us change ** it, it has already done mischief enough.”
And now, my dear jimcy, how cruel is my situation; what immense Seat, probably, divide your Julia from her Harry; I may, perhaps, never lee him more; hear from him I certainly shall not. Mow my heart bleeds at the thought! Will he be constant? May he not forget me? Love, I have been' told, never Survived hope; if So, may not, nay will not his father try every
D 3 means
[ 38 ]
means to erase from his breast the least ' glimmering of that soothing illusion?? he will draw the consequence, my friend, and conclude me the most wretched of human beings.
• southaudlej T T
Street. ■ Bolton.
- The enormous length of this letter calls for an apology, but, as that. would increase the evil, I must decline it. Continue your jour.. I beseech you, I can.never be tired of reading it. Adieu. /
b
., ...... ........ ■, III,
/
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss bblton.
Your letter pierced my heart, ’ my dear Julia', ut, courage, Harry must be faithful, since I cannot conceive it possible, that he who has once loved you should ever love another; besides, attachments formed in infancy are never to, be eradicated, say the
w I * ■.. ' • ^ ^
wifs ^
r 39 3
s,
wife; nay, do not smile, I will swear I have read foin a book;, therefore be easy, and wait patiently, till yoii are five and twenty; it, is a great alleviation of sorrow to know, that, in such a given time, it will come to a period. I think now, that if I was in Jove, I could wait very willingly ten years for the man, foi was certain I should have him then. Let me tell you, Julia, that, upon the whole, I begin to fufpest matrimony to be but a hum drum sort of an affair, and. therefore better calculated for five and twenty, than for Miss in her teens; it is a Serious matter at best, I believe, for, I observe, the married people are commonly much graver than us Angle ones; all these considerations lead me to a resolution of not taking to myself a mate, till time has made me wiser than I at present am; and even then I should wish my husband to be wiser
D 4 thaa
( ]
than ihylelfj for as I chush to fel guided, or, in other words, that he shbuld be master, it will be absolutely fiecestary for me to have a deference for his judgriiehti and a steady coftfi 4 dence in the redlitude of his prind* j)!es, in order to obi^y him, as I should desire tb do, \vith cheerfulness and grace; when Such a man is found, arid my share of ^tuderice is prodigiously intreafed, you shall See what a good wife I’H tnake,, Julia. — But 1 : have talked long enriugh of myftlf, i think; Ib will retufft to my journal. i The dinner bell ended rriy last, I re s meifiber, fb dswh I went into the parlour, where I fourid two neighbouring Gentlemen, their narhes Lewrs j the elder a plain, honest looking, sensible Irian, and who by no rneans wanted good breeding; his Son a well behaved, modest, pretty looking lad, just cortie from the University. With
the
ti
the dishes, usual, efttered tha tw(» Miss hhc/fi/j; no so&nef were we Seated at table than I pereeived thfe youfig gentl#fifi&n*s eyes to be rlvetted on the lovely features of my Kitty; I said to riiyfelfi “I Wish to God you “Would fall in love with the girl, and be generous enough to take her with out a shillingi’*^ Kitty obsefved the young gentleinan’s attention to hef, and, blushing, cast down her fine large blue eyes, without daring to lift them off her .plate, unless, now and thehj to look at me, when they were replete with the most: ineffable good nature. The discourfe at table happened to fall upon the topic of matrimony; I was in a huniour; just then, to be an advocate for it *, I therefore observed, that joy flew monopoly and dwelled with ** two, '* and that all pleasures were doubled by being communicated, afe ibrrows were alleviated by being reposed

[ 4? ]
I ■
poled in the bosom of a friend.' Lady Hackit> sad, simpering, she was glad to hear me Speak so’ much in favour of a state, which I was' so perfectly calculated to render a happy one, whenever I entered into it : I bowed my thanks for this compliment, say ing, your Ladyship is very obliging, but I was only speaking in favour of matrimony, as an eligible state in general, without bringing myself into question; as I apprehended I was not very likely to marry soon, since my ideas on the choice of a husband were so heterodox to the general maxims of the world, that, among the prudent part of it, I durst hardly avow them, for which reason I should content myself with putting them in practice, without attempting to make proselytes to my opinion. — If, indeed, Madam, said old Mr. Lewis to me, your notions of propriety, with regard to the
choice
»
[ 43 ]
;
choice of a husband.. not quite so prudent as they are generous; ic is well you have no intention of making converts to your System, since, who could withstand the united forces of your tongue and eyes? I Smiled at this compliment from the old qentle man, and, replied. That I. was much flattered by his having defined my thoughts, though I had not explained them. "Well, Said he, then, to show your Ladyship that I am quite.pf your opinipn, that rponey will, not purchase happiness in wedlopk, I Solemnly declare, I had rather see my toy there rnarried to the girl of his choice in her shift, than tacked to a fat old duchess, though she should niake him as rich ava n^'bob; yet I must allow, that where you can unite both love and fortune, she latter is ho bad ingre
^. >• ■ ' * ^ i
dient. ' Mr. Hackit here interrupted the good man, by exclaiming, with the
most
>. » >
[ 44 ],
% • •• most theatrical tone of voice and gesture, “All for love, or thcf world well
s -■
** lost, I Say; 1 would take the mistress of my heart, without a rag to ** cover her, and Spurn a world if. “offered as her purchase.” 'This fine' concerted bombast Speech was made to pieale me, I fuppole; and not ill imagined neither, since he might Safely appear thus disinterested before one who he knew had a good independent fottune. I, laughing, told him,
, that I rejoiced to find there were still Some Sentiments of generosity to be found anriong the young rnen of this age, and hoped, one day, to See him make some worthy nymph happy, whom Plutus had frowned upon in the same degree as Nature had been kind to her, which was frequently the cafe. Observe me. Madam, cried Mackit, I did not say that poverty would be a recommendation to my
marry[
[ ]
marrying, but that it would be no objection in the girl on whom I should have placed my astcdions. Would it not, roared out Sir Jasper, but, by Jove, it would, and an insurmountable one too, let me tell you, young man. So, (b. Said Lady Hackit, drawing up her head, Here's a piece of work about nothing; do you think. Sir Jasper, that any child of mine could ever degenerate sofar from the blood from whence it Sprung, as to ally itself to a beggar; no, no, Joey (for that is their Son's Cbrifiian or jewijb name) has too much pride ever to commit so mean an action, I'H answer so| him; he only talks, but I know he thinks quite the contrary of what he says. I could not help laughing at her'ladyship’s judicious assertion, and I read in Mr. eyes, that he thought
the mother had a thorough knowledge of her Son's Sentiments. I have
given
[ 46 ].
/ •
given you this long conversation, my dear Julia, by way of letting you into the character of these odd people, rather than with any intention of amusing you; rmust, however, finish the Scene.
After dinner Kitty fose with her lister, in order tb leave the room, when Mr. Lewis, Senior, who sat next her, caught her by the gown, saying. No, no, young Ladies, we must not lose you so Soon; pray stay with us a little longer; lady/ drh/ Said, colouring, excuse me, Mr. Lewis, but we must not break rules; the children always retire to their studies after dinner; f never Suffer idleness in ' my house, continued she, bridling; upon which the sweet girl drew her gown from Mr. Lewis's hand, with a modest
'' - *, ' * I '
beleeching look, that he would no. longer detain her; and having'diseh gauged herself, left the rooim with her Sister Wdl, 'Said ij.dady/d’rlta if. 1 was
i
[ 47 ]
I was a man T would marry one of your daughters; they must make excellent wives, they are So obedient.
You do the girls honour, replied her Lady ship, with a Sprightly air, and they should either of them be, much at your Service, as an alliance V ith the long/ down family has long been one of my most Sanguine wishes. I replied, with a tone of some impatience, it is unfortunate for your Ladyship, that lb defirable.an event can never take place; as I do not think it probable that, like Tireftas, I shall change my sex— — I rose from table, fearing, a reply; young Lewis followed me to the window, when, observing that the weather was fine, he proposed a walk in the garden; I accepted the party, and, taking his arm, told his father that I was running away with his Son; to which he said, he had no objection, •, we were walking,, I alked the
young
. [ 48 ]
young man how far he lived from the Castle? He answered, Lewis Farm, Madam, is but two short miles from
f
hence; it is a pleafapt ride to it, and if your Ladyship, when you ride out, iviu honour my mother wjth a jcall, I nm Surf you will make her extremely happy I abfwered, Probably I might, and then inquired how he liked the miss Haekits? Her, that sat next my father, he replied, is one of the Sweetest girls I ever Saw; and if her mind is but as beautiful as her figure, she is a perfect angel. She is a truly amiable girl, said I, in mind, as well as person;; it is a thousand pities that she should be burled alive in this odious mansion, with Such a tyrant of 9 mother as Lady hacut is. He, Smiling, Said, I would willingly become a knight errant, in order to rescue her from the old enchantress, if I was sure my Services would be acceptable

°. f
[ 49 ]
\
able to the young Lady; Mr. Hackit's
joining us prevented my answcring
him; I wish to God I could bring about
a match between these two young
people; I think they would be happy..
I And all the country Speak of the
Lewis's, as the most valuable, beings # ^
living; a matchmaker, yon know, my Dear, is looked upon as a most testable charaister; no' matter, if I can contribute to the happiness of any ■of my fellow creatures, I shall for ever do it, in Spite of'the censorious v/crid; ',
if I Succeed in miy Scheme, it willshe Some proof of my abilities, and then'
. command me, on the like occasion; till when, I most Sincerely wish all " human felicity to my ever, valued friend,
, ■ ' faithfully, .D, '
■ Jvy Cajile, Lucy Scott.
, • % • '
^4 •*»*/ • V \
E Vifs
f
M....
■ ' ■ ■ [ ]
I * -
V
/
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
'\
OUR letters, my dear Lucy, are
like cordials to a weak stomach, they never fail to comfort; you aisure me that my Sorrows will come to a period in less than ten years; I must have patience, then; you say, Harry will, nay, mttji be constant. ' Ah! my Dear, you are partial to your friend! But I will believe you, because my peace hangs on my faith, I have not been well Since I wrote my last letter; Mr. Boothhy tells me, he will remove next week into the country, as he, thinks the air will agree with me better than town; I am glad of it, for. I am heartily sick of London, and all its follies. From some whisperings, and fiy looks, between my Guardian and his Lady, I have a strong suspicion, that they are scheming a
match
f
51}
match for their Ward; with some no ble personage, doubtless, Since nothing less than a Coroner, I know, will content Mr. Boothhy; however, thank God, they cannot force me to marry without rny own consent, so let them plot on, with all my heart. Did I tell you, tat NIKS Boothhy is expected. * shortly .from France, where fly has been, for her education, ever Since she' ' ten years old? I remember her an amiable child, and promise myself much pleasure in her society;; she is my Harry's filler, and, probably, may correspond with him. Enchanting thought! How it fills my breast: with the most pleasing prospects: : I may judge of her character, from the letters I have seen of her’s to her •
, parents, she is a very discreet, sensible girl; in her last fly expresses an ar i dent desire of becoming acquainted with me, and says many obliging
E 2, things
[ 5^ ]
/
things on the subject; a companion of my own Sex and age, and in the Same house with me, too, are pleasing circumstances. Yet as I am Sensible that young people in general, for want of experience, are apt to place too easy a confidence on appearances, as well as to suffer their imagination to guide them, rather than their judgement, I shall be very cautious how far I confide in Lout fa Boothhy, lest, instead of assisting, fne should betray me. Ingenuous minds, you know, my Dear, are the eafiest to be imposed iipon, and especially in youth, because we are apt to make ourselves the criterion by which we try others; and I apprehend there cannot be a more fallacious one, since mankind differ as much in their dirpofitions • and characters, as they do in their faces; and ic requires not only a length 'of experience, but a very penetrating
accurate'
«
',, [ 53 ]
accurate eye, in order to trace the pao Sions, vices, of the human mind, through all their various meanders:
I have neither of these advantages, confequemly may be deceived; but k shall at least not be for want of exercising the little prudence I poitefs, if I am foi have this moment been informed, that next Thursday is fixed ■for our journey to farnd.by Alley % ■■
I Snail enjoy my books, my mu sic, and, above all, my dear. Lucy's letters. If I was vain, Iwculdnow, before I take my leave of this gay metropolis, give you a lisc of .all the conquescs I have made during my last six months residence in it: Fortune’^ votaries, you know, my Dear, are numberless, consequently lb are my Saves; no Roman (general ever had half So • many tied to his chariot vi^'heds as 1 <
can bjast of; and, notwitiistaiiding; the ostentatious virtues of those anti
E 3 quhited
i [ 54 ]
quated heroes, about whom the world rnakes Such a fuss, I do not believe they ever bore their triumphs with half the moderation that I do mine for, could one have read their hearts, I am persuaded one should have found them elated with their conquests, and looking down with contempt on their captives; whilst I never desire to make any, but, on the contrary, can, with the stristest truth, aver, that their numbers, instead of raising my vanity, de press my Spirits; and, might I have my wish, it would be to pass unnoticed by all mankind except my Harry. A steady and virtuous pashon is, I am ' convinced, the best guard of female conduoc, as it shuts the heart against a thousand weakneiscs, which it would
I ^
otherwise lie open to, (I mean in girls or my age.) Yet is it not strange,
that the indifference I show to all men
*
in general, should be the bait which >*•
allures
\
[ 5 5 J
. I
allures them to me? I think, if I was fond of admiration, I would' af fe<st this behaviour, stwhich is now the result of my feelings,) as the Surest means of gaining it; yet the young Ladies of this age are, certainly, not _ of my opinion, Since they, in general, leem to take the contrary means to at tain the same end. But do they Succeed? you’ll say; why, truly, I think •not often \ but Still they pursue the old method. Well, peace be to them
i Say, and success in all their under
/
; I only wish that it was in rny pviwer to distribute my Sighing swains arnong those damsds who take Such indefaiigabie pains to artrash thdr notice. Think me not vain from what I here Say, my Lucy; indeed I am not lb; throughiy convinced as I must be, that P’utus is the God mv lovers wor
4
ship, under the disguise of Cupid.
E 4 I am
I
n
', ' ' f
[ 56 ]
/
I am pleased with your scheme, for the establishment of Kitty Hackit; ic would be a lucky circumstance for the girl, if the young man.should love her well enough to take her without a fortune; otherwise, I suppose, that odious piece of formality, her mother, will never be brought to give her consent to the match, tho’ ever so advantageous for her daughter. Yourfuccefs in this laudable undertaking, ladyziirp?, will nor, however, encourage me to employ you on the same occasion; because I apprehend rny affairs to be so desperate, that even your Skill would she found inadequate to the tash; nothing but time can ever bring them to the desired period; yet receive (as are most due) my grateful thanks for the kind offer. Mr. Boothhy, inexorable as I know he would be on this fubjecc, (though yon should plead my cause,) would, on any other, listen to you
'with
\
[ 57 ]
with delight, since you are his heroine; nay, I have heard him declare to my face (which, by the bye, was not not very polite) that he thought you the most amiable, as well as the most worthy girl he knew. Though my pride was, perhaps, hurt at this declaration, yet my heart altented to its truth, and my face glowed with pleasure at the justice done my friend. I am not afraid of making you vain; your ears are inur’d to praise, for which reason, perhaps, it is less'danger cus, though frorn the mouth of one of the most valuable of men.
I could laugh heartily at the idea of Mr. Hackifs declaration, ('which, I fiiould imagine, cannot long now be deferred,) if I vras not afraid of make inp you angry. In consideration of
O •/ O
my discretion, I hope you will give me a full account of this important event, and that you will continue to
love
'[ 5» ]
love your ever faithful, and affectionate, I
South Audley Julia Bolton..
Streets. ■ -
/ ' • '
...- ■ - - -- J - ^ —
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
4
Jk/d, 'Such an adventure! but 1 cannot tell ic you for this half hour, because it will break the thread and order of my journal, which, wherever it ended in my last:, must now begin with a teie a tete beiv/een my Ladyship and Mr. Hackit. suppose u3 Sittins: in the drawing-room after
•.D
dinner; my beau Seated close by me, with his legs carelcsty crosted, picking, his teeth, and locking fixedly in my face, with his eyes full of that Sort of staring, unmeaning tenderness, 'which I have observed in a calf’s, when led to it’s mother, after a short absence from her. 1 Sat, jogging my foot,
and
$
[ 59 ]
I
and pulling a rose to pieces, which I had just gathered; we were both Silent
for some moments, and should have
« •
continued so till now, had it depended upon me : But he interrupted the Solemn Scene, by taking a rose leaf from me, saying.. How beautiful is the
“colour of this flower. Madam! and
^ »
“how exactly like the tints in your “lovely cheeks.” O, bravo! thought I, but said nothing; he continued to praise my mind, person, and understanding, .likening them to everything in heaven above, and the earth beneath, idc. but in so clumsy and unfeeling a manner, x.\\ai praise became satyr in his mouth, and 1 almost lost: my patience with listening to such stulf; I, therefore, turned short upon him, Saying, “A truce with all these fine Speeches, for god’s Sake, Mr. ■
• Hackit, they have, positively, almost fulfocatcd me; and give me leave to
a' '
[ ]
ask you a plain question: Have you really a mind to oblige me He did not fecm sorry at being thus interrupted, because, by this time, I apprehend, he had pretty near exhausted his whole stock of compliments, and was, probably, as glad to puran end‘ to the conversation as myself.
If, i have a mind to oblige you,, divine Lady Lucy, '(exclaimed he, in the most rapturous tone,) I shall think that moment the happiest of my life, in which you will give me an opportunity of showing the excess of my zeal for your ladyship’s Service : “Com“ “me, therefore. Madam, from “the Zenith to the Nadir, and I will “fly on the wings of Love to execute “your orders.” 1, laughing, answered, I am much obliged to you. Sir, but have no intention of Sending you So ' long a voyage; the favour I have to afle of you is, that you would prevail on
Lady
[ 6i ] •
Lady Hackit to let your filler Kitty ride out with me tomorrow morning, as I do not like riding always without a female companion, and Lady Hackit tells me, fire never was on horseback in her life, as she thinks the exercise too rough for the delicacy of our sex;; I find your filler does ride sometimes, and, therefore, I think there can be no objection to hei; accompanying me. There cannot possibly be any to your ladyfiiip’s obliging Tequeft, replied Mr. Hackit, but, on the contrary, my mother will think her daughter greatly honoured, by the notice you. Madam, are so kind as to take of her J I will, therefore, venture to afiure you, that the girl shall be ready to attend your Ladyship tomorrow, and on all other occasions, when you shall think proper to command her. I bowed my thanks, and we resumed the dear topic, our sweet selves again.
This
[60
This man miifl: have some Senti
/
my dear Julia, among ali his bombast and nonsense, or elfe, why does he not come to the point! I really believe, that his plan is, to gain my affections before he ventures to declare himsdf in form; this is delicate; and if I believed he cared a farthing for
t
me, would excite my pity : But 1 am thoroughly convinced, that my fortune, together V ith the instigation of •his parents, are the motives vv^hich have engaged him to pay his addrefies to me.; love is quite out of the question, if I know anything of the matter.
■ The next morning miss Hackit, her brother, and your humble Servant, accompanied by two of Sir Jasper's servants, mounted our horses at eleven ' o’dock, and rode out an airing;. What had pasted between the mother and Son I know not; but my Kitty was ready when I called for her, and instantly ap" ".,
[ ri ]
I
peared, dressed in a very elegant riding habit, hat, feather, in which she looked like a little ancel. Mr. Hackit ashed me, which way I chose •
1 * k
to ride? I Said to Mr. Lewis's, for I longed to See both his wife and house— — ' casting rny eyes on Kitty, I perceived the lilies had given place to the roses in her cheeks; joy, I suppose, was the causs of her emotion; I did not stem to See it, however, and we trotted on; when, .comins to the cor ■ of a lane, a post chaife met us, accompanied by two footmen on horseback; a Gentleman was in it, who called out, most vociferousty. Stop, ’ stop, you rascal, stop! I turned my horse’s head towards the chaise, in order to See who it was that made Such
L ^
a noise; when (I beg you to judge of my Surprise) I perceived it to be the very identical blue and gold beau, which I had been So struck with the
figure
t
*' • » ’
[ 64 ]
figureof at the inn. Ivowtpyou, yni^?, that I was very near streaming with pleasure.; nay, I believe I did make some sort of noise, but I don’t know what it was like, and I hope no body heard ' •■it. lord/vdlr/?;;? (for that’s his name) jumped out of his .chaise as soon as it stopped, and immediately advanced
\ M
'.towards us; Mr. Hackit dismounted
f
instantly, and ran to meet his Lord ihip, whom (after many, bows had palsed between them) he presented to me; I felt my cheeks glow, and, I dare say, I looked like a fool; for I felt like one — a sure sign, Julia, when shis Lord Snip, after the usual compli meets. Said, Your Ladyship puts me ' in mind of the heroines of ancient ro r ^ mance, who were never to be met with
LI ’ but on the road : And yet, my Lord,
^ ■ I replied, I am no great traveller, nor did I ever meet with a knight errant, ■ainless you will give me leave to cal]
you
I s
[ 65 ]
you So; and, indeed, there has been Ibmething romantic enough in our meeting with each other, both here, and at the inn,, where I had first the
/
pleasure of feeing your Lordship. don’t you mistake the phrase. Lady jlucy? said he; since, had my presence given you any pleasure, you would not so cruelly have deprived me of the
honour of reconduding you to your
♦
chaise as you did, by forbidding it to be got ready till my father’s coach had drove out of the’ inn yard. 1 made no reply to this reproach, but, pointing to Kitty, laid, rhat’vmiss Hackit,
Sir, I fancy your Lordship did not see her before. He looked coiifufed, and went up to her, in order, I fuppose, to apologise for his negledv. There is fpmeching in this man’s eyes, Julia, when he looks'at me, which infhmly throws me dmo confusion: : whence this proceeds I cannot ima vol. I. F gire
»
* I • *
[ 66 ]
gine, for he does not stare with that impudent aflfurance which many of our fine Gentlemen do, when they approach a pretty girl in a public place, in order to put her out of countenance. No, Lord Malcom's eyes, are replete with inodesty, and tenderness; but then he flings too great a portion of Sen Ability into them, I believe, and that must be the thing.
Mr. Hackit now inquired if his Lordship was not going to Ivy Cafile? This question put me all in a flutter; but, before I had time to alk my heart what it was about, he answered in the seffirmative; at which Mr. Hackit expressed his joy with more good breeding than Sincerity, I believe. Now remark, my Dear, how like a heroine I behaved; when, addrefflng myself to Mr. Hackit, I desired him to accompany my Lord to his father’s; y We are just at Lewis Farm, where
“we
I 67 ]
»
^ we will shorten our visit, and young “Lewis shall escort us back to the “Castle.” So Saying, without waiting for a reply, I kissed my hand, and galloped .off. .Here's friendship for you, Julia / To leave this amiable man,
. the very moment I had found him, only to give Kitty an opportunity of being in company with young Lewis, unrestrained by the presence of her mother. I could not bear the thoughts of disappointing the sweet girl: A smile, with a look of thanks, which, she gave me on our leaving the men, Safliciently paid me for the sacrifice I had just made her. The Mv.lewifs feeing us at a distance, came out to meet US; the father took me off my horse, the fon Kitty; our beaux handed US into the house, when I begged Kitty, would step back to the court yard, and tell the servants not to put up the horses, but only to walk them gently
F 2 about,
C 68 1
about, as we should not be able to stay long: She obeyed with joy, probably,. because. young Lewis was with her, who was wise enough not to offer to execute the commission himself; indeed he would have deseated my purpose if he had, as I wished them to be alone together, though but Sora few moments. Mr. Lewis now presented me to his Lady; she is an agree abl^werbred woman, of about forty,
and still handlbme; benevolence and
« *
candour are painted in her face: She received me not only politely, but with something tender in her manner, which touched the heart. I was just seated, when in came young Lewis, leading the blooming Kitty Hackit, for blooming she was; air, exercise, and her Lover, had all contributed to heighten her complexion, which is generally rather too delicate, owing, 1 suppose, to the confined, sedentary life she leads at
home.
[ 69 ]
home. Mrs. Lewis took her by the hand, and, with a countenance expres five of tender companion, Said, My Sweet young Lady, tho’ we are Such very near neighbours, yet, 1 think, I never had the pleasure of Seeing you before. Kitty replied, It was her misfortune not to have known Mrs. Lewis personally till that day, but that she had long been acquainted with her merit from report; adding, that her mother thought her Hill too young to be introduced into company, and therefore kept her filter and self pretty close to their work. Mrs. Lewis answered, with a sigh“ “Hackit ” and I differ much, I find, in our “way of thinking; for if you was “my daughter, my Dear, 1 should “be proud of producing you to the “world.” A tear sat in Kitty's eyes whilst the good Lady was speaking, and I saw a sympathising one glistening in those of her Lover, (tor such I
F 2 am
[ 70 3
am lire he is, or I’H burn my books.) Mrs. Lewis perceiving she had aflecled the young people, changed the subject, by proposing to show us her garden; we walked all over it, and almost into every corner of this delightful retreat, which art and nature have rendered one of the beautifullest places I ever Saw. I walked between the parents, whilst Kitty and her Philander lagg’d behind, and, probably. Saw nothing but each other. The walk over, we drank a dish of chocolate, and then remounted our horses, accornpanied by yirdlewis, junior, who kept close to hhkate; I was totally neglected, nay, So much So, that I really believe they frequently forgot that I was of the party, and 1, good naturedly, took care not to interrupt their conversation, by putting them in mind of it. At last we arrived at Ihy Cajile. I will own, that, on our return home, I thought every step was lengthened to
a mile;
r 7' ]
a mile; but, on looking at the happy pair, I ceased to be impatient. Lewis lifted us off our horses, and then took his leave; but not before he had in.. us to honour his parents with another visit shortly; I promised we would, and away he went; we met Lord mauom and Hackit in the great court, or Square; what they Said I shall not tell you in this, it being already of a Srightful length, So adieu, my ever dear Julia, yours,
Ivy Cajile. Lucy Scott'
'S. Let me add, however, how
much I rejoice at the prospect you have of finding an agreeable companion, as well as a ufe sul confidant in Miss Boothhy, let this thought keep up your Spirits, my Dear; and, in the mean time, pray that love may not depress those of her you used to cal! your lovely friend.
F 4 ' Lady
t 72 ]
'• ' *
*
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton
'KJ O letter this post from my be loved friend; I should be made wretched by your Silence, did I not sufpe6t that it proceeds from your having lest London; and I cannot hear of you So Soon from Farnahy Abbey; this thought tranquillizes my anxiety
which otherwise would be intolerable.
\
I wrote my mother a week ago, that I could no longer endure Ivy Castle, or its inhabitants; to which she answers me. That time will render them less odious, and that I shall reap a considerable advantage from my present Situation, for it will make Tatton Lodge appear a perse<st paradise to me on my return to it, as beauty and deformity only become So from comparison; besides, she avers that restraint and contradiction are excellent physic for people of my age, though she allows them
not
I 73 ]
not to be palatable; adding, that it requires little or no merit to oblige
others in afls, which are at the same
<
time pleasurable to ourselves;; that the merit lies in sacrificing our own tastes and inclinations, in order to give Satisfaction to our friends. She bids me observe, that (he preaches example, as well as precept. Since nothing on earth could be a greater self-denial to her, than that of Separating herself from her beloved Lucy, her darling child, in order to oblige Sir Jasper and Lady Hackit, Who can resist the arguments of Such a mother } Not I, Julia; I would even Spend the whole winter here, if (he requested it of me, though I fiiould be as difconsolate, and as
r *
moped, as I was before Lord Malcom's arrival at the Castle. She, good Soul, knows nothing of what company I am at present in, or (he would, probably, not take So much pains to recon
T * f
cile
[ 74 ]
\
cile me to the place : But as I have no thought, or aflion, which I would wish to conceal from the best of parents, I shall not fail to inform her, in my next letter, that a young Nobleman, with figure, fortune, sense, and sentiment, has, by the force of enchantment, converted the melancholy, gothic Ivy Cafile, inma\aetof Armida. Not that all is harmony here, no, far from it; the old pair are offended at Lord Malcomh apparent attachment to me.;
I do all in my power to increafe.their ill humour on that head : Mr. Hackit'
I '
does his best to appear uneasy, but; in his heart, 1 believe he is not sorry that my Lord has robbed him of his office; for I am certainly not his taste;
I pretend not to perceive the bustle I make among these oddities, but go on in my own careless way as usual, whilst, in fact, I am the only one who truly enjoys the scene, except Lord Malcom,
who
f
[ 75 ]
who joins in the laugh with me ibme times; but all this while I have lost the thread of my journal. I think I Said in my last, that Kate and I met Lord Malcom and Hackit in the great court; the latter upbraided me with having forced him to commit the high
O O
est aft of ill breeding, by making him quit two Ladies, who had done him the honour of putting themselves under his protei^ion. “But I durst not dis “pute your orders, Lady Lucy, and “therefore implicitly obey'd.’* You cannot possibly err, I replied, laughing, whilst you follow that plan; besides, we wanted you no longer, as we were so near the house. This was an obliging answer, you’ll say; it was so; but, to confess my weakness, I was afraid, lest Lord Malcom ffiould fufpeist ^ me of having any inclination for the young man; I therefore treated him thus cavalierly, in order to show my
con[
[ ]
contempt of him. This behaviour of mine admits of no excuse, Julia; a moment’s refledlion would have saved me the confusion I now feel for having atsted so unworthily; but the impulse of the moment ran away with my reason'; it won’t often do so again,
I flatter myself, as the strong sense I have of my error, will teach me to think before I speak for the rest of my life. It is a ridiculous idea in us girls, to suppose that we have a right to treat a man with insolence and imner
^ ' A
tinence, because he has paid us the highest compliment he is capable of, that of wishing to spend his days with. us, as well as putting his honour and fortune into our pofleflron. Let us ' suppose that these offers are not acceptable, as coming from a man we dislike, vet still we are obliged to him, -
* 0 O '
Since we ought not to estimate his worth from our opinion of it, but from
the
[ 77 ]
the value he himself Sets upon it; and then we shall find, that, however despicable either his figure or understanding may appear to us, yet he thinks them both Superior, and therefore gives the strongest proof of his love, by offering to devote his time, person, and fortune to our service. These are salutary refledlions, my Dear, and will, I hope, influence my future conduct; and, after all, why should I be anxious about what Lord Malcom thjnks of Mr. Hackit and me i Or why should I suppose that he is in love with me } unless it be because I wish he was. — On our meeting in the yard he accosted me, hoping I was not fatigued with my ride; said, I look’d like Hebe, and paid me some pretty compliments on my dexterity in managing my horse; but all this while his fine eyes (if I understood their language) made the Softest declaration
[ 78 ]
ration of his love. God knows whether mine answered his, or no; I can only hope not. We now walked into the parlour, that’s to Say us three, for jsi//y went immediately up flairs. Lady Hackit, who thinks her Son the finest Gentleman in dw^lmi^l, had no Sear of Lord Malcotn's being prefer’d to him by me, (at least at that instant,) seemed elated with the pleasure of receiving her noble guest : I left them together, in order to dress, which with me, you know, IS the affair of a quarter of an hour at most: I never knew a woman, who spent hours at her toilette, that ever pofiefied an ounce of sense. On my reappearance in the parlour. Lady Hackit retired, in order to adjust her graces, as did her fon after her. Sir Jasper was now left to entertain his guests; a talk he is no way qualified for, as he does not shine in conversation; this, I fuppose, he was con
Sdous
t; 9 ]
fcious of, for after having strode furiously two or three times from one end of the parlour to the other, complaining of the heat of the weather, he abruptly Said, Pray, Lady Lucy, favour us with a Song to the harpsichord, I know Lord Malcom's an idolator of music;; Lordship joined in the request; I instantly advanced to the instrument, and, without making any apologies, either for my want of voice or ability, immediately began to fing and play. I am not in love with this man I find; no, I only like him, that’s all, fori never sung and played better in my life, and that without the least perturbation of spirits; Lord Malcom listened to me with attention, and complimented me with delicacy; Sir Jasper Swore I was one of the Muses, and an epitome of all human perfedions, and then begg’d another song; I looked at Lord Malcom, as much as to fay..
Do
t 80 ]
»
Bo you choose I should Sing again? He understood me, and answered, I could listen to that divine voice of your’s, Lady Lucy, till I lost my senses in an ecstasy of pleasure;; therefore beg you to continue, though I am but too sensible, that if I valued my future peace, I ought never either to hear, or see you more. You are very gallant, I replied, my Lord, and so play’d
N
on till the dinner bell rung. At table there was a violent fcufflle; Lord Malcom would not sit on the left hand of Lady Hackit, where Ihe had placed him", infisting that it was impofiible for him to be seated above the Ladies; he therefore gave Kitty his chair, and took her’s, which was next me: I was glad of this arrangement, because I did not choose him for my opposite.. cannot bear his eyes, you know;). well, all this put her Ladyship quite out of humour, and she. declared, that '' the
N
[ s. ]
the children should dine no more at her table, if Such a suss was to be made about them. I ate heartily (a good Sign, you’ll allow, my Dear.) In the asternoon Several very well-meaning Hottentots came to See us; I play’d a pool at quadrille to oblige them, for, you know, I hate cards; there were three tables, my Lord did not play at mine; So when our pool was done I " cut out, and, taking my work. Seated myself upon a Sopha, which happened to be directly opposite Lord Malcom, in which I Soon found I had done wrong, as I heard great fault Sound with him for not minding the game;
Mr. Hackit Soon came and placed himself by me, upon which I perceived that things went worse at the card table, foi prudently moved my seat to one where his Lordship could not see me; Hackit followed; he admir’d my hands, then my work, said I did vol. I. G every
t
I
[ 82 ]
J. ■,. ■
everything with equal grace; *, adding, with an affeisted sigh, you poflfess every persedion but one. Lady Lucy, and that’s Sensibility; and, indeed, you Seem, from that want, to be destined to destroy the peace of all our Sex, without having the least compassion for their Sufferings. I am glad to hear it, Said I, as the men want punishing for the injuries they every shay endeavour to do the women; and I heartily wish five or six thousand Such girls as myself were every year let loose among the perfidious part of your Sex, in order to revenge the cause of the num berless fair ones of mine, who have been Sufferers from their too great Sensibility;; as to myself, I am pretty certain it will never be in the power of any man to make my heart ach for two minutes together. — yetyourladyship would not, I dare say, marry a man whom you did not love, though ever
so
f 83 ]
So strongly recommended by your parents, Said Mr. Hackit. I replied, that the approbation of my friends would certainly have its proper weight with me, if ever I made a choice;, but at the same time I should beg leave to make no sort of nse of their recommendation, unless it entirely coincided with my own taste: “For you know,
“mr.n?rshv, that my Sqrtune is at my “own disposal, as I have been of age “sometime, my grandmother having “made me so, by her will, at stxteen,
“soit rests upon my will, either to P marry when I please, or to live fin“ “as long as I please; now, hither“ “I give you my word, that I have “had no taste for matrimony, and I “must, I apprehend, be desperately“ “love, before I shall be prevailed “on to give up a state of freedom, so “seldom enjoyed by girls, of ipy
age..
2 Here
\ •
• [84]
/
Here Lord Malcom's party being finished, he advanced towards us, and interrupted the conversation, by Saying, You don't love cards, I fancy. Madam, since, when your own pool was ended, you did not come and look over us who were playing; however, it was my happiness that you did not, for they tell me I play most execrably. Mr. Hackit now took my Lord's place at the card table, and he his by my fide; I did not lose by the exchange. How I envied Hackit, Said his Lordship, for having the Selicity of entertaining you, whilst I was con demned to talk of nothing but Spadille, ^ ' Manille, and Basto; I wonst Say to
think of them, for that I most certainly did not, which was the reason I play’d So ill; my dear Lady Lucy, continued he, looking tenderly at me,
‘ you know I did not, and, in compas sion to me, moved your Seat. This ac' '
[ 85 ]
cufation, as it .was true, call’d a blush into my face. When recovering from my confusion, as well as I could, I answered, I cannot deceive my Lord, and therefore am oblig’d to own, that I thought you look’d too much at me to mind your cards; I was, however, led to make this observation, from the frequent complaints I heard made of your inattention to the game. “How “beautiful is that candour in you, (cry*d “his Lordship,) divine Lady Lucy; “how you distracst my senses, by the “irresistible force of such united “charms' Softly, my Lord, said I, in a sprightly tone, take care, or you will (without thinking of it)' make love to me, which I flatter myself you, would not do, if you knew how much I dislike the fubjecst, as well as how little vain I should be of the effect my person mightshave on any one, who should be as much a stranger to my
G 3 mind
\
[ 86 ]
mmd as your Lordship is; Since I am persuaded, those who polfefs true delicacy, will always take care to gain the esteem of the beloved object, before they venture to declare their passion, lest, from a too great precipitancy, they should meet with a cool reception,
if not a flat denial. I allow the ob'
'• • • • : •
to be just in general, said his Lordship, with a hefltating voice; but are there not particular circumstances, Lady which may lessen the severity of this rule? As for instance, when a man is already much better acquainted, by report, with the character and disposition of the Lady, than he is with her person: : surely, added he, taking my hand, it requires no great time, after feeing Lady Lucy Scott, to declare her to be the most per. feist work of Nature. “Yet beauti “full as you are. Madam, I should “not love you to the excels I now
‘‘ do.
[ 87 ]
“dp, had I been as much a stranger to your virtues, as I am to your per“ “but Fame has done you justice, “as well as your friend, Mr. Boothhy^ “whom 1 have listen’d to for hours, “whilst he has been lavish in your
J.
“praise.” Mr. Boothhy, \ exclaim’d; Does your Lordship know him?. Very well. Madam, he reply’d, he is an old friend of my father’s, they were fellow students at the same College at Oxford as were Harry Boothhy and I, whom I love with a fraternal affection. My God, said I, and do you know my dear Julia Bolton too, Mr. Boothhy'% Ward? He changed colour, and answered, I never Saw her. Madam, but I have heard that she's a great fortune. Now what could he mean by colouring at your name, since, as he never Saw you, he caii't be in love with you? This discourse, however, broke the
4 ^
thread of my ideas, and made me for
G 4 get
[ 88 ]
get to Scold him for daring to make
love to me; I fell into a. reverie, and
So, I perceived, had he; when recol
ledling myself a little, I ash’d him,
*
where Harry Boothhy now was? At Bordeaux, he reply’d, with a Merchant, whose riameis Defpres. I instantly wrote down the place, and name, that I might let you know them; and now, my Dear, let this interesting piece of intelligence make amends for the unreasonable length and stupidity of this letter; take care, however, not to give any hint to your Guardian, that I knovj Lord Malcom, if you do, it may be a means of his removing Harry; so now write to your lover, and believe me invariably, yours.
Ivy Cajile, lucyscott.
I
\ I
:. Miss
i - I
I
I
[ 89 ]
Miss Bolton to Lady Liscy Scott. -
My dearest girl, ten thousand thanks for the interesting piece of intelligence your last kind letter brought me; it has made me the happiest of human beings. I have wrote to my Harry, and here enclose the' copy of my letter.
Miss Boothhy is arrived, but 1 no longer want her ashstance, and, indeed, I am much better pleased to have no other confidant than you : She's a fine girl, and is, in my opinion, rather more regularly handsome, than agreeably so; for she has a re ferv’d serious air, both in her countenance and behaviour, which I think borders upon melancholy, from whence I conjeflure, that she has left her heart behind her at Paris. The meeting of her and her parents was
truly
t 9° I
truly pathetic; these old folks are certainly the bell creatures living! and render everything that belongs to them happy, except your poor friend, Julia. Louisa Boothhy, On her sa ther’s preienting her to me, embraced me with more cordiality than I could have expested from the coldness of her exterior. After the usual compliments shad passed between us, stie told me, hat it should be the bustnefs of her life to merit, and, if possible, to gair^ friendship. I replysh, “I appre “hend, Miss Boothhy, you will find[ “the tash extremely easy, since I al“ “look upon you with the ten“ “of a filler, and love your “parents so affestionately, that had “you been much less amiable than “you are, you would have beep dear • to me, as being their child.” Mr. Boothhy, and his Lady, I perceived, were delighted with the prosped of a
rhiuual
[ 9« ]
mutual friend ship’s Subfifting between their daughter and me.
I was yesterday taking a walk in the flower garden by myself, when Mr.. Boothhy joined me, saying“ “my “dear Miss Bolton, what, all alone!
“contemplating the beauties of Na“ “among which you are one of “the most distinguished.” My dear Sir, I reply’d, your praises would certainly make me vain, if I was unacquainted with the partiality you have for, your Julia, My Julia i he repeated, ah! if my Julia really was so, she would not wound my paternal heart as she does, by perfisting in an ill placed inclination! I was going to interrupt him, when he thus went on, “Do you really love me well enough “to fet any value on my peace, Miss“ “?" Do I live cry’d I, in an elevated tone; my God! what a monster must I be, if your peace not
as
\
[ 92 ]
as dear to me as my own; or that I should not love the man, who has been to me the tenderest of parents 1 I am. Satisfied, said he, and, therefore, shall, with more confidence, rely on your hot refusing me a favour which I am going to alk of you. There is nothing Mr. Boothhy can afl<, I rcplykl, which I shall not most willingly grant, ex,, it be to cease loving his fon, and that's not in my pczver, even if it was in my will. Wdi then, said my Guardian, I may depend upon your granting my request, since, I can afsure you, that it is not that you should renounce Harry, though, I must own, I hope it will be the means of your so doing; however, depend upon it, my Dear,
., continued he, when I tell you so, that no force shall be uled upon your in clinations; therefore listen to me with attention and patience. He now led me by the hand to an arbour, vv?heh,
seat ing
[ 93 ]
Seating himself by me, he said. My ' dear Ward, your establishment in life, and the securing of your future happiness in it, are the objests of my most: ardent wishes, as well as of my greatest: anxiety. The interest of my own chil • dren does not touch me Ib nearly, because my honour and'inclination are both engaged to serve you, Miss Bolton, to the utmost of my power: You are an orphan, my Dear, (here I saw the tender drop of companion quiver inshis eye, whilst he look’d at me;) he wip’d ic off, however, and went on“ “k is my duty to keep you from perceiving that you are so, by my unceasing endeavours to shpply the place of your lost parents; they would, if now alive, with pleasure consent to the proposal which I have “had made to me by an old friend of mine, and a Man of Quality, who. ^ wishes to unite his fon to my Ward;
49
“there
[ 94 ]
“there is not, Miss Bolton, I will ven “ture to aver, a prettier young Gen“ “more accomplish’d, or freer “from the vices of the age, than Lord “Malcom is.” I started at the name; he went on, “He has both a fine na“ “and acquired understanding; ‘‘ a benevolent good heart, with a “Sweetness of temper Seldom to be “Sound among the young men of his “rank andshortune; add to these, that his estate is large, his birth noble, “and that he will be an Earl when “his Sather, Lord Kelfo, dies; pro“
“me only, my dear Julia, to
\
“receive his visits, and i’ll trust to “his address and merit for the rest.” I answer’d, you have my promise, Sir, and I shall not recede from my word; but I would advise you, as a friend, not to be too sanguine in your hopes of the success of this affair. He made no reply, and we walk’d into the house.
And
[ 95 ]
And now, my Dear, how do you like the picture of your Lover? I am half in love with it myself, yet fiiall, most certainly, tell him, that I neither can, nor will have him. He is, I find, to
9
make us a visit this Summer at Farnahy Ahhey, accompanied by his father; I shall not dislike his company, because you will be the topic of oiir conversation. How wise these old Solks think themselves, and yet how easy it is Sorus young ones to out Scheme them: What, give up my Harry for a Coronet! Forbid it Love : No, never; if
Lord Malcom was an arioel, I would
•* 2 '
prefer Harry Boothhy to him. And now. Lady Da'cy, you see why your Lover coloured, at the .mention of my name, which, since he has Seen you, (I suppose) he has an antipathy to. My Sentiinents, in regard to him, are very disterenr, for I have conceived an esteem for him, as being the admirer
of[
[ ]
my friend; and, on that footing, she shall be welcome here. Miss Boothhy is certainly in love, and so are you, my sweet friend, though you Seem to be ignorant of it: May you, my dear Lucy, meet with none of those,, ' to your wishes, which have imbitter’d the life of your astedionate
Famahy Ahhey,. Julia Bolton.
P. S. Continue your journal, I beseech you, and don’t apologise any more for the length of your letters; they are always too short.
• «
¥
r
Miss Bolton so Mr. Henry
B O O T H B Y.
I
E ver since the cruel moment, in which your father deceived us •both, and separated you from your ■ Julia, I have been unhappy. Do you
remember, my Harry, that on the fatal
day
[ 97 ]
I
day on which I lost you, how cheerful we were, and how unsuspicious of the misfortune which then hung irh pending over our heads, and was in a Sew hours to Sail, with all its weight, upon us? You cannot have So Soon Sorgot, that you and I had been out together all the morning a filling in the great canal; there, whilst seated by my fide, how often did you Swear that you would preser a cottage with your Julia, to a throne without her; nay, generous as you were, you wished I had been less rich, that you might” have had an opportunity of showing' the difintereftedness of your pafliori for' me. How unnecessary was Such a wish; ' my Harry! Did I ever doubt your worth, or the nobility of your Senti
i
ments? Surely not, Since I fancyshobody will ever draw your picture more amiable than it is portrayed in my breast; at this instant I See you at my feet, as you vol. I. H were
t 93 ]
were on that fatal morning your voice (till vibrates on my ear, as it did
when you declared, that neither time
¥
■ por absence should ever make you forget me, or shake your constancy. I promised, on my part, by all things faered, never to give my hand to any other man than my Harry, who so entirely postested my heart. Sure Some guardian angel, in pity of our innocence, knowing we were on the verge of being separated, perhaps for ever,) urged us thus to plight our mutual vows of love and fidelity to each
other: Mine are written on the tablets
\ '
of Providence, never to be effaced; nor do I doubt the validity of yours; let us live then for one another, and trust the event to time, and our invariable coristancy.
in the evening, when your father had taken you osht, on pretence of visiting a sick friend in the neighbourhood I
sat
I
[ 99 ]
0
Sat down to the organ, and bega*n playing over your favourite turtles, counting the minutes, however, thi your return; when, alas^l towards night, I Saw your father arrive alone.
I ashed hkit, with precipitation, where you' were? He answered, negligently, “I left him with a Sfiend Sola dlay “or two.” I looked chagrined', I believe, but made no reply, as f naturally Suppofcd you would walk over and see “us Some part of the, following day; the next day' carfte; the day after, and the third, yet still I had' not seen you t U On the fourth I Ibst all padence, and ' ashed your father if you never was so return home? yes, faist he, my earl hope so, but not yet; for Harry's now of an age to go into the world, and to choose a profession, *, would, therefore, be doing him an injustice to keep him idling at home, when he should be improving" htmfelf abroad;
H 2 I have.
[ 100 J «»
I shave, therefore. Sent him to a Gerfri’. tleman of my acquaintance, who willy ' I hope, reifder him all the Service in his power, in whatever plan of life he shall himself chuse to enter. But when will he come back? Said I, impatieritly. I really don't exactly know, replied yoor father, but I fancy it will be Some time first; for you are to consider, Madam, that Harry is a younger brother, and must, therefore, make his own fortune, or go without one. I would hear no more, but, bursting into tears, left the room since which time I never could learn from your obdurate father, where you were: Accident gave me that inforimation; I knew it but yesterday, and today I write. Oy Harry! I have been very wretched, but shall be no longer So,, since I have now the consolation of (prrefponding with you; for I cannot
doubt of your expedition in answering,
• ■
this.
'4
I < « »
[ 101 ]
this. Direct to me at Mrs. Pimfs, mantua maker, in New bond ftreet, I shall receive your letters safe, and without any danger of their falling into wrong hands. Adieu, my beloved Harry, depend on my unalterable fidelity } take care of your health, if you would preserve the hse of your ever faithful and afiedionate
V
Farnahy Abbey. Julia boltott.
f.
Lady Lucy Scott to ik/i/^ Boltonw
Thank you, my dear Julia, for the insormation you have given me concerning Lord Malcom's pretensions to you; I am perfecstly easy on the Subjecst, as I know the constancy of your affe(stion for your Harry •, and, if that was not the case, you have too much honour to rival your friend •, rcr ceive my unseigned thanks for the warmth with which you rejeist him. ‘
Hs What
I 102 ]
Wshat an extasy of joy will your letter stmiow your Lover into! and how happy am I, in bteir^instriiiim^njal to the Selieity of you both! — You desho me to aeon likiwe ffliy Journal 5 I left off, I think, at my lors declaration .of his passion, iwhjdi I ought to have been very arigry at, and was not •, however, I had the grace to behave with more reserve to him than usual (during the rest of the evening; he perceived it, and looked melancholy upon the occasion j we were consequently stupid enough, for tsher.e is not a .complex idea in any .of the Hackit Jstl .astur you. The
nejct morning I rose early, and went foto the Parkj my usual walk; I had ppt been there long before, on turning down one of .the most shady walks, I rn?t Lord Malcom \ be bow’d relped fully, and with a timid diffidence, said, he hop’d he had not interrupted my ■ meditations.. I answer’d, not in the
least.
I loj ]
k
least, my Lord, Spri was cmly think ing of you. Of me. Madam! he replied, with an air of Surprise! Why. not? Said I, what can one think of here but o, f the inhabitants ps Ivy Cajile? You do me great honour. Lady Lucy, reply’d he, by giving me a places in your thoughts •, but m, ay I, not be permitted to ask of what nature tfiose thoughts were 7 O, yes. Said I,, w, itb aj| my heart, I was thinking how happy your Lordship would be in a union with my deserving, as well as lovely friend, miss Bolton. He looked at this mor ment .as if he had Seen a Speistre} when r.ecpvering from the Surprise my last: words had flung him into, he Said, I find your Ladyship is no stranger tp the prpposed alliance between your friend and me \ but you are lb, probar bly, to my sentiments upon the jest, which are steady in the resolution of qpver offering my hapd where I
H 4 can'[
'[ ]
cannot give my heart; I therefore neither can, nor will, ever be the husband of Miss Bolton; even supposing she herself should have no objection to me, which I am ignorant of, as I have not the honour of being known to her: My breast: was a stranger to love, charming Lady Lucy, till I saw you, an involuntary impuhe made you “mistress of my heart the moment I “beheld you at the inn reason has since confirm’d my pashon, nor “shall it ever know a second choice, “though you should (which I tremble to think of) reject the offer I now “make you, of myself and fortune I was going to speak, when he thus Went on, “Do not answer me yet, “Madam, but deign to hear me out: The love you have inspired me with, “is as pure as that of angels, and as incapable of change. I do not pre 2sh any return to it, till you
'“have
0
[ 105 ]
“have thoroughly made yourself ac“ “with my charastcr, and cx ‘ “pedancies in lise: Put my constancy “to what trials you think proper,
“only tell me, loveliest, and most
“valuable of your Sex, that my per
«
“is not disagreeable to you.” Here he paus’d, fixing his fine eyes on my face, as if impatient for me to speak. I frniled at him, and, looking. archly, said, I fancy your Lordship is hot very anxious for an answer to your question, and, therefore, I shall give you none; but pray inform me what you intend to do with your engagement to Miss Bolton? Upon my honour, Madam, he reply’d, I never was under any to that Lady; her Guardian and my father, I believe, wish’d our union; Lord Kelfo proposed it to me, as a thing he wish’d to see accomplished; and I, being at that time per fectly free, ‘ told him, that I should
have
[ io ]
t
have no pbjeistipn tp waiting upon Miss bouon, as 1 had been informed, she was a very desirable girl, and that in cafe we ilked each other, I would cer tainly marry the Lady; but if, on the contrary either party should dislike the other, I inflsted upon the negotiation’s being put a stop to immediately, as F would not marry a Venus, who did not love me, ' or whom I pould not
Jove. This is all that ever pasted up
\
the subject, excepting, that it was agreed, that my father and I were to this summer to make a visit at
Farnahy Abbey; bu t I, apn now determined not to go there. Indeed but you must, said I; my friend fulia expels ypu with the utmost impatience, a, nd is prepared to give you the most favourable reception; she tells me spin a letter I received from her yesterday, in which she has sent me your picture, asjt was drawn by
Mr.
[ 107 1
, Mr. 'Boothhy, and which is calculated to make her partial to the original. Why will you torture me thus, Lady Lucy? Said the poor youth, in a plaintive voice •, trifle not thus, I entreat you, with a heart that is So tenderly devoted to you, but generously decide my fate at once, and tell me that you wish to see me the husband of your friend. I reply’d with quickness. Indeed I do not; for she is already engaged, and her heart is too good to be capable of either levity or inconstancy; He was going to interrupt me here, but I bid him be filent, as it was now his turn to listen : Lord Kelfoaud Mr. Boothhy, said I, are, I perceive, both violently bent upon this match, I would therefore advise your Lordship not to make any objections to it, but accompany your father with cheerfulness to ' Farnahy Ahhey, my friend will rejoice to see you there, if.it be only for the
pleasure
/
]
pleasure of inquiring aster me; she will, with polkenefs, but steadinefe, refuse the honour of your lordship’s hand, as she would do that of the King's, rather than, prove unfaithful to your friend, Harry Boothhy.
My God! cried Lord Malcom, how wretched should I have been,, if, through' inadvertency, I had attempted to shp plant my friend in the heart of his mistress “■ shrprizing is all yoif cell me! Well, then, you command “mic to viflt Mist bouon.x shall im
i
“plkitly obey you; but sty, my ct when may I hope for the
“happiness of meeting you in Lon “itm?" In the winter, ray Lord, I reply’d. What an age it will be till then I ’stid he, flghing. We now approached the house, to which we had been gradually advancing during the course of this con versation. My Lord Blade ust of all hst rhetoric, in order ’ to
£ 109 ]■'
to obtain perniiction to write to me j but I conftaritly refused, alleging, that though my person and fortune were at my own difpolal, yet i did not thiiik: I ought to enter into any engagement, without consulting my parents upon the fulyecst; and that the corrcspond; ing with one of his sex, unknown to them, was, I apprehended, a breach of decorum, aswell as of duty; however, to' comsort him, I promifod to introduce him in town to Lord and Lady Longfdown \ adding, that if, on a Surther acquaintance, I found his ihind to be as amiable as his person was agreeable, i would then fcrioiitly try to think of matrimony, Hekifled my hand, in a rapture of joy, and we entered thecaftle, where we found the family assembled, and waiting breakfast for us. Mr. Hacfzit Saluted me with, “Good morrow. Lady lu cy, you look like a goddest this morning:
yoit
[ no J I
\
You are alvvays charming, said the puppy, but you are quite divine' today, I swear. Madam.” ] curt’fy’d for this well turn’d compliment, ancl', ’ laughing, said, I shall soon prove to you that I am nothing but a mere mortal, by candidly owning myself almost dying vdth hunger, proceeding, I supposed, from the long walk I had taken, and the many hours I had been up; adding, you are very idle folks in this house, to lie in bed folate; when I am in the country I always rise at six o’clock, as I think the morning the bea utifuliest part of the day.
Will you rise as early, Lady Lucy, said Sir Jasper, when you are married i Yes, Sir, I reply’d, if my husband wilf owe me leave. He will be a great fool if
O O
he does, cry’d Mr. Hackit. I differ from your opinion, said Lord Malcom, as, I apprehend, the happy man whom that'
Lady
[ lij 1
Lady should honour with the title of husband, would have no will but her’s.
I bowed to his Lordship for the delicacy of this conapliment. Hackit look’d' out .of humour that his had not met with the same approbation. I proposed riding out after breakfast, to which the Gentlemen readily agreed, foi Sent for Kitty Hackit: When we were all in the yard, in order to mount our horses, Mr. Lewis, the elder, arrived; on feeing him I was going to order the horses into the stable asjain,
O '
when, advancing to me, he Said, my vifit was this morning to your Ladyship; but Since I see you are going to take an airing, I beg I may not prevent you, especially as, if your Ladyship will honour my cottage a Second time with your presence, vre can there trahsad: the bufiness I came about as well, if not better, than here. I agreed, to go with him to Lewis Farm he
• then
[ 112 J
then.quitted me, to pay his compli riients to the rest of the company: I perceived him whisper Something in Kitty's ear, what it was I know not. So away we all rode ♦, and here give me leave to drop my pen, Sori have really wrote till I am quite tired; I wish you may not be as much So in reading this; ' and remain yours, faithfully.
Ivy Cajile, Lucy Scott.
- - N- -- ■.. _ _

Miss Bolton to lady Lucy Scott.
T Told you, in my last, Lady Lucy, that Miss Boothhy look’d dejedted; she has, I think, inspir’d her parents with the Same melancholy; they, however, try every possible means to en liven her, by proposing all Sorts of diffi j^tion which the country affords, but all in'vain; she grows visibly thinner and paler every day. Yesterday she
'' '■. Jtnd
'**■*''. t
[ ” 3 r
and I were alone in my room, when, ' observing her more pensive than usual,
I rose, and, taking her hand, I prelted it to my lips. Saying, My dear Louisa,
I wish you was better acquainted with my heart than, you are, and then you would, perhaps, find relief, by communicating those Sorrows to your friend,
■ which, I perceive, labour in your bosom, and which are, probably, increased by concealment. You are very good, miss Bolton, replied she, with a. deep sigh, but my Sorrows will admit, of no alleviation. “Ah, no, (exclaimed “the dear theatrical girl)) gives,
“increase to my afri£lion; the circling “hours that gather all the woes, whicl “are diffused through the revolving “year, come heavy laden, with the oppressive weight to me.’* Here she ceased, and covered her lovely.
■.. .... — II I..., 111 II im I IIP — wwg,
. i
* Mourning Bride.
vol. I. I face
i
> ■
t h4 ]
face, in order to hide the torrent of tears which fell from her fine eyes. I cannot exprds to you, my dear Lucy,
ho this scene affected me: I said all
1
that language could afford, to comfort and console her, but as I was totally ignorant of the cause from whence her sorrow fptung, I probably never hit the sight chord, as her agitation rather seemed to increase than abate, by my endeavours to fboth her; I therefore ceased speaking, after having made the warmest offers of my services with her parents, in cafe her uneasiness proceeding from the having placed her affec tiohs oil an object, which fiie had reason to apprehend her father might disapprove; or, in short, if that was not ■, shfe shihg, then to command them in. whatever manner she should think proper. Hdw you .oppress me by this ^ excess of goodness, said she;; I ought not to bfe surprised at finding W. you,
[ 115 ]
you, Such as you have ever been represented to me by my parents. During my long residence in France, their letters were ever filled with elogiums on the amiable qualities of their beloved Julia, as they called you : Even Harry (whose idol you are) has not, I find, been able to exaggerate your virtues. I biuflied at the dear name. She went on. But excuse me, miss bouon, if I doubted, till I was acquainted with you, whether Providence had ever formed more than one of his creatures, with a mind as perfect as their ' figures were beautisui. I See I was mistaken, for you are the second I have. known of that happy composition, and there is, probably, not a third in the world. — Thank you, my Dear, Said I, for the distinguished compliment which you have been pleased to make me; it is not the less obliging, for not being judiciously placed •, but;
I 2 I find,
$
[ ]
I find, Louisa, that you know wy secret; is it then fair to conceal yours from me i I own my passion for your brother, and cherish it as the happiness of my life. Alas! replied she, with a sigh, which Seemed almost to burst: her breast,, 'tis theresore you do own it, miss bouon: Here she appeared ablbrbed in thought; I durst: press her no further upon the Subject at that time; but I cannot be at rest till I prevail on her to unbosom herself to me. Sure her misfortunes mufl: be of a peculiar nature, to admit of no remedy! I do think that she would find relief, by communicating them to a heart So susceptible as mine is. O, with what pleasure would I divide the load with her, could I, by So doing, lessen her Sufferings! In short, I feel more than I can express for this Sweet girl, as well as for her parents, who fear she is inclined to a consumption,
and
[ lu ]
/
and attribute the languishing state she is in to ill health, rather than any af fe<5tion of the mind, not supposing it possible for her to know affliction at her age, and in a situation of lise where every apparent blessing Surrounds her.
You know, Lucy, that I Spend all my mornings in reading; 'tis a rule in the house for nobody to interrupt me; books are (after yourself and Harry) the greatest comforts of my lise. Cicero, when he Speaks French, Says “Les lettrqs forment la jeunejfe et font “la char me de V age avance, la Lrofpe “rite en eft plus' brillante & I'adverjite “en revolt des confolatiens, sft dans nos
........ ..I............ I.,. — I,,, ■fciii.1^1, 1.
* Books are the inftru£lors of youth, and the, delight of age j prosperity is rendered more brilliant from our knowledge of them, and they, are our consolation in adverlity, in our own houses, and in those of others, on our travels, and in solitude j in all places, and at all time? they are the fweetners of our lives.
I 3 ‘ ‘ maisons,
i
\
[ ii ]
f - t
“maisons, id dans celks des autres, “dans les voyages, Cs? dans la solitude“ “tout terns, fs? en tonnes lieux ellerfont “la douceur de notre viev Excuse this quotation, I could not help it, from its being so strong a recommendation of my favourite occupation: — Unaccustomed, then, to receive any visitors in my dressing room, I was a good deal surprised yesterday morning, when I heard somebody tap at the door; I bid them come in, when Mr. Boothhy entered : He advanced, begging my pardon “for intruding “on that time, which I knew so well “how to employ to the best advan ’ “tage, by keeping such good com“ “” (looking at my library.) I seated him by me, alluring him, there needed no apology, since I looked upon this visit as a peculiar favour, and begged he would inform me of his motive for conferring it on me. He
looked
[ J 1
looked at me with a countenance in which was painted the strongest marks of paternal Sensibility, and Said, I came to alk your opinion of my daughter, miss Bolton \ I mean, with regard to her present Situation of health and mind. “Tou, Julia, Said the good “man, are So gentle, lb engagingly “insinuating, that if any hidden for row preys upon her heart, Ihe would, “probably. Sooner be brought to re“ “the Secret in your bosom, than “in those of her parents; because the “great disparity of age between her “and us, as well as a certain awe, “which children generally have for “the authors of their being, may “make her afraid to own a weakness “to them, which Ihe would not blush“ “reveal to one of her own Sex and “years theresore, my dear miss Bolton, I waited on you this morning, with Mrs, Boothhfs and my joint in
14 treaties.
[ 120 ]
. treaties, that you would endeavour to find out, whether our dear child’s apparent dejedtion of Spirits, and decline of health, proceed from any mental; affliction, or merely from indispofition. of the body. “For my own part, continued he, “I should hope the “former, since her sorrow must: be. of a very peculiar nature, should it “admit of no cure *, and, unless that were the cafe, she may depend on “her mother and me acquiescing in. “everything that can conduce to the. reftbration of her health and spirits
■ “her but speak, and nothing is, “imposhble to our love for our dear, “unhappy child; let her only point ■ “out the means, and she may depend “on the execution of her will; 'tis
• I
. “then from you, my dear Ward, that. “we must hope to learn the real situ“ “of her mind ♦, 'till when we
I. ^
‘‘ can apply no remedy to her disease” ”
,,, afllired
[ II ]
I assured him, that if (as he Seemed to suspe6l) miss Boothhy laboured under the weight of an affecting Secret, and that she should honour me with her confidence, I would promise to in • Sorn him of every circumstance, in which it might be possible for him to administer consolation; but, that if I found her Sorrows to be of a na,
,
ture, which would admit of no relief, and that she requested me not to divulge them, I should then beg leave, to bury for ever, in my own breast, the secret of my friend, whilst I myself would, by every means in my power, endeavour to sooth and soften those griefs I could not cu re. Observing Mr. Boothhy to be abforb’d in thought,
, I said. Have you any particular reason for fufpedling. louifd.s illness to proceed from uneasiness of mind? He
V
answered. No, my Dear, I rather attribute it to distemper; however, I
put
[ 122 ]
pot my interest entirely into your hands, thoroughly convinced, from the perfe6l knowledge I have of the goodness of your heart, that you will contribute all in your power towards the recovery of lauifa, as well as to the peace of her affiifted parents. Here he rose and left me, vexed to the soul to see this best of fathers so unhappy. And now what do you think of all this, my friend? I dare not give way to conje6iures, lest they should prove injurious to the lovely mourner; and shall, therefore, content myself for the present, in the full resolution of dedicating my time, fortune, and utmost abilities to her service;; that Soon she vvill direct their use in a manner which may lead to the restoration of her peace and health; and when I have done all this, and ten hundred times more, I never shall be able to pay the children a thousandth part of
the
A
I
t 123 ]
\
he immerise debt I owe their parents, rhis reflection puts me in mind of a ittle incident which happened the )there day; As we w^re at tea, en 'amille, money was the topic of con rerfation; I lamented, as usual, the nissortune of being So rich : Mr. Boothhy, Smiling, Said, You are more jnsortunate than you think yourself, my dear Ward, and your ignorance : )f this circiimftance proceeds from the : onfldence you place in me, or other sivife you would examine more narrowly into the state of your finances.
Do you really think, Miss Bolton, that, from three years of age to the present time, you have been able to Spend annually the whole intereft of that large sum of money which was paid to me on your father’s decease?? never thought of the matter, said I, but why not? My education, clothes,.,
board, hfo, must mount pretty high iti
the
-[•124 ]
the account, I fancy. You will find them mere trifles (said the worthy creature) when you look into your affairs, in which, however, we must beg you not to be too exact, lest we should be found to be your debtors, for the real pleasure we have received from the poflestion of your amiable company for So many years, which, was it to be estimated at its proper value, would be infinitely more than we are able to pay. I could not answer him, my heart was bursting with gratitude, whilst my eyes overflowed with tenderness; at last I stammer’d out, “I will not “be thus opprefted by your excess of ** goodness. Sir; no, depend upon it, “I will have my revenge one of these “days, by giving that fortune, you have been So careful of increasing“ “your fon Harry." Hold, my Dear, cried Mr. Boothhy, don’t defeat your own generous purposes, by mis
taking
/
t >25 ]
taking the means of accompliihing '
them; was you to do what you just now threatened, you would pierce the heart with Sorrow of him, whom you are Ibmetimes kind enough to call by the tender name of father, and render
i *
my Son an alien to my affe<stions. I was shocked at what he Said, and replied, till you can prove to me. Sir, that it would be a real evil to you and your family, that Harry Boothhy should marry Julia Bolton, whose heart is replete with duty and affection for you and your Lady, with love for him, and who is poltelted of a fortune which must place us in affluence; I will not give up my peace to your caprice,
(pardon the expression, Mr. Boothhy,) but 'tis absolutely impofiible that you should have any reasonable obje^lioa to my being your daughter in law.
The good man continued Silent, conscious (I dare Say) that I had much
■ ' the
[ 12^ ]
the best fide of the argument, or, perhaps, through surprise at my vivacity, which is rather uncommon in me, and efpecialiy when addrefied to him: But, indeed, he is very absurd in his notions of honour, probity, and I don’t know, what; it can never be right, in order to prove one’s love, to render the ob je£t of it miserable; besides, it’s all to no purpose, for I shall never change my System, nor wiw Harry, i’ll answer for him. I count the hours till I have a letter from Bordeaux: Poor Hackifs declaration will be out of Season whenever it comes now. I perceiye you are Sar gone with Lord Malcom, I long to. See him; tell him So, and send him as Soon as possible mea/mahy Abbey. I am impatient to know what Mr. had to Say to your Ladyship; write me all, and believe me, my dear Lucy, ever yours,
Famahy Jhhev. Julia Bolton.
Lady
/
[ 127 ]
I
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
T ORD Malcom is gone, Julia we parted on the terms we had agreed on in the garden scene, that's to say, he vowing eternal love, love pure as my own virgin heart; and I promising to reward his constancy with my hand, if he should, upon the striistest examination of his characster, be found to merit such a. treasure. He told me, that his father’s whole estate is entailed upon him, and that he was in adfual poftefilon of a very fine income, which was left to him by an uncle of his, so that you see we can marry when we please;; I won't have him without the consent of his parents, as well as my own, no, the Virtues (hall dance at my wedding, Julia -, nor shall one wrong action rise up against me, and so damp the joy of that important day; I am not ro
manticly
/
[ 128 ],
tnanticly or foolishly in love, my Dear; we Iprightly girls Seldom are So; ’tis your Soft, languishing fair ones, who do all the Silly things; whilst we more open hearted, giddy ones, are less culpable, and yet oftener censured by an ill natured, injudicious world. Now I have news to tell you, or I would write an efsay upon the absurdity of Supposing all prudes to be virtuous, or all lively girls to be the reverse. In my last I Said we were going to Lewis Farm; when we arrived there, Mr. Lewis, Senior, took an opportunity of leading me into the garden; there he told me, that he perceived his fon shad lost his heart to Miss Hackit, and begg’d I would freely give him my sentiments of the disposition of my ■ friend Kitty, I told hirn that I thought it of the Sweetest: kind, adding, that she postested good sense, as well as good nature, and only wanted, I : ' thought,
X
[ >29 3
thought, a little more knowledge of the world, to render her one of the most amiable young women I knew.
I said this from the observations I h‘ad made on her behaviour on various • occasions, where I had Seen her temper put to the utmost trial by the ill humour of her mother and lister, who neither of them are of the dove kind,
Fanny being the model of Lady Hackit, both in mind and person,
I told Mr. Lewis, that the young people appeared to me deserving of each other; but I much Seared they would meet with an obstacle to their wishes, in the inhuman partiality which Sir Jasper and his Lady had for their Son, whom, in order to enrich, they were determined never to give a shil
'o
ling to his Sisters during their lives,, and, at their death, to leave them a Small annuity, which was, at their decease, tp devolve to, their .brother, or. ' vol. I. K his
\
t >30' ]
Hs heirs. This piece of insormation i had from kiey Mackit. Mr. Lewis, shrugging up his shoulders. Said, Is it possible that there should be suchtpa*' rent's in tste world 7 And what a heart must young Hackiti haves, to consem; shus, to rob his Sisters of jtheir birthi'
right? However, continued this worthy .man, miss Hackifs want of for. tune will be no objection to me; Charles has enough to make them both happy, : his uncle (who died two years ago) left hini a thousand pounds a year and made me his trustee, ordering, that he should be put into possession of it on the day of his marriage, supposing he married with my consent and approbation : I did not, however, wait till that time, but gave him the estate into his own hands as soon as his uncle was buried telling him, at the same time, that I desired he would make himself happy, by following his
own
4
[ II ]
own. inclinations in the choice of a partner for life; and that if stie was but virtuous, and a Gentlewoman, I did not require anything elfe. He has fixed upon Miss Hackit, and I am to wait upon Sir Jasper, and, his Lady, tomorrow, to acquaint them with my fon’s proposals, and to ask their consent to receive him as the lover of their
\
daughter. “Charles is, I fancy, at “this moment afldng his Miftrefsst;
“for, look how close they are seated to“ “” pointing to ah arbour where they were, Seemingly, in deep conver > Sation. We did not disturb them, and he went on, “Now may I venture, amiable Lady Lucy, to request that you would take an opportunity. Some part of today, of hinting this affair to Lady Hackit, that she may in some measure be prepared for my visit tomorrow?” ?”
promised' I would. He then made, many apologies for the liberty he had
K 2 taken.
y
"[ »32 ]
taken, Saying, Kitty had advised her Lover to ash the Savour of me, and that the young man, Searing lest I should think it impertinence in him, had in treated his Sather to Speak for him.
Affairs being thus adjusted, Kate and I Soon after took leave of the family of the Lewis's for that time. On our
t
return home, I made my Sair friend accompany me into the parlour, Saying, She was a Sweet girl, and had made an absolute conquest of young Lewis's heart. Lady Hackit coloured, and looked angry, but durst not appear to be So with my Ladyship. Mr. Hackit Said, “Faith, I wish it may be So, I think they would make a pretty couple; Charles Lewis has a good estate at present, and will have a much better at his father’s death j and if he thinks
• K
as I do, he won’t trouble his head a bout whether she has any fortune or
none' lanswered, that both (lelewifs
\
had
[ '33 ]
had declared, that they did not make money their objet, when they wish’d an alliance with Sir Jafpeds family, esteeming miss Hackit a treasure in herself; and i’ll be their bond. Said I, that they will neither of them ask a shilling of her parents withsher more than they will chuse to give, let that be anything or nothing. Won't they faith, cry’d Sir Jasper, rubbing his hands, and jumping off his Seat, why then, by Jove, they may take the girl whenever they please. You Seem to shave conceived a very high idea. Lady Lucy, Said Lady Hackit, of old Lewis's generosity; but I Sancy your la’ship would find yourself prodigioufy deceived, if he was brought to the trial, ni stake my judgement upon the event,
I reply’d. Nay, then. Said Sir Jasper,
I am certain. Lady Lucy, you know ' more of the matter than we do: However, let it be as it will, if his propo
K 3 Sals
\
t .'34 ]
falsare as disinterested as you think
<
them, they will meet with a very welcome reception from me, (that is, if the girl likes the young Sellow *,) hey, Kitty, looking at his daughter, who blush’d, and made no answer. She like him! cried Lady •, Lord, Sir Jasper, I am Surprised to hear you talk So absurdly!! should the child know what she likes at her age?
O
She must like what her parents like for her, or I shall Soon know how to deal with her; but, indeed, the world’s come to a fine pass, when girls that are but just come out of their leading strings think of husbands. So saying, she bid Kitty leave the room. The next day brought Mr. Lewis, everything was soon fettled between the old folks; since which time Kate is free of the parlour — that is to say, she enters and leaves it at pleasure; she has likewise the liberty of feeing and con vers
y
[ 135 ]
ing with her Lover every day; ail things necessary to adorn the future Bride are wrote for to London: I find Sir Jasper will not be penurious on that head, which I am very glad of, for the girl's Sake. The young couple Seem to idolise one another, and dote upon me for having promoted their union, : I pray God I may ever receive their thanks on this subjest; and I really think it is probable I shall, for they leem calculated for each other, being both of them worthy, good-natured creatures as ever existed; then, under the guidance of Such parents as Mr. and Mrs. Lewis, how should they err! Lord Malcom left us the day after this affair was Settled: Young Lewis and he have contracted a Sort of friendship together. Fanny Hackit looks Sulky on the approaching nuptials of her lister I have wrote to town Sora dianaond
K 4 pin.
[ IS ]
pin, which I intend to present to the Bride on her wedding day, as I am to be one of her maids. I cannot express to you the pleasure I feel in having contributed to the happiness of these two young people : And now, this match made, I am at your command, Julia, I shall leave this odious house,, Adieu, continue to love me,
. and believe that my heart bleeds for poor Miss Boothhy; I die to have her relieved, which cannot probably be till she tells her story, Sori am convinced that her disorder is in the mind: What a consolation must your friendship be to her! A further knowledge of. your chara<5ler will induce her to unlock the Secrets of her heart to you. Ah! if she knew your worth but half as well as I do, she would not have concealed them So long. Your Guardian is an uncommon character, and ’tis pity he should be So, since he is
one
[ 137 ]
one of the best men living; I know you are of my opinion, Julia, though he is not always of yours. God bless you, my dear girl; yours asteftionately.
Ivy Cajile. Lucy Scott. '
‘ ■■ ■■ - ■■ ■ - - LI - -- r -- -- “■ ■ ■■ ^
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
Dear Lucy,
T Have had a letter from Harry, but Such a one as has made me wretched; he, like his father, whilst he stabs my heart, Sorces meto admire him. I will not comment upon the letter, but leave it to your less prejudiced, as well as better judgement, to decide, whether I ought to blame or praise my Lover, most; for which purposel have enclosed a copy of his letter. 1 congratulate you on the happiness of the young couple, and sincerely wish them every felicity; they seem to fet out in life under the most favourable auspices. I am asto •
.
I
'[ -38 ]
/
nifhed that Mr. Hackit has not yet made his open declaration to your Ladyship, and especially as you talk of leaving; the Castle so soon. He is \ certainly afraid of meeting with a denial, which is a mortifying circumstance, even though one is not in love with the person, (I have heard the men fay.) 1 must now tell you, my Dear, that Ishegin to think all Louisa's furrows flow from the loss of a female friend; yet, if soit is very extraordinary why flue should take such pains
to conceal the cause. Nay, though I have the most refined idea of friend
I
ship, and feel its power with as much vivacity and warmth, as, I believe, any girl ever did, yet the sorrow I should ' sustain for your loss, 'and that of my ' Harry, (though equally poignant,) yet would bear a different character.
I don’t know if you understand me, but I feel what I mean, though I can’t
explain
[ j39 ] '
explain myself. Now, if I know anything of the matter, Miss Boothby's affli<stion is of that sort, which I should suffer on the death of my lover; yet I sometimes think I am mistaken. Yesterday, at dinner, Mr. Boothhy said to his daughter. My dear Louisa, what is become of your friend Miss Merton, whom you was fp wrapped up ' in at the Convent? I think I have never heard you mention her name since you came home. The dear girl, instead of answering this question, turned pale, and sunk off her chair; her mother caught her in her arms before (he reached the floor. We were all astonishment at this accident, when Mr. Boothhy said“ “be sure this friend of my child’s is dead, and the loss of her is the cause of that dejedion of spirits which has given us all so much uneasiness;; “I am the “more inclined to think it is so, from
the
C 140 ]
the uncommon friendlhip which she and miss Merton had for each other; “since Lotiifa stay’d in the Convent “more than two years longer than we “wished her to do, because she could ** not be brought to leave the Nunnery whilst her friend remained in “it.” Louisa now began to recover a little, when complaining of a pain in her head, and that she was much indisposed, she begg’d leave to retire to her chamber; her weeping mother and i accompanied her thither; she then begged we would leave her. Saying, she would try to take Some rest; I made a sign with my hand for Mrs. Boothhy to comply with her request; she did Ib, and I silently stated myself by her bedside; I could hear her sigh frequently, as if her heart was ' bursting through her tender breast;
I
. she thought herfelf.aione; I durst not interrupt her sorrow, but I partook it
with
[ HI ]
with' her. Ah! why cannot I relieve this lovely girl? I had got a little cold, and therefore, unfortunately, could not hinder myself from sneezing; upon which she put back the curtain, when, perceiving me to be ib near her, she took my hand in htr's, and pressing ic to her lips, her eyes streaming with tears, she said, O! Miss Bolton, how good, how tender you are! I could not speak, but flinging myself on to the bed, I put her cold cheek to mine, and mixed my tears with her’s.
The situation I then saw her in touched me so sensibly, that I could not help exclaiming. Ah! cruel Louisa, why will you be such a niggard of your, • sorrows!! you lov’d me but half so much as I do you, you would not refuse to share them with me. God knows, said I, raising my eyes to heaven, with what pleasure I would bear the burden of them, if, by that means,
I could
I
\
[ 142 ]
1 could relieve that gentle bosom of your's, which now breaths under their afflifling weight. She look’d at me with eyes expressive of Surprise, tenderness, and gratitude, and, with a ligh, reply’d, I should be cruel indeed, if I was capable (intentionally) of wounding; that senerous heart' of
vo O
your’s, Miss Bolton, which is So feelingly alive to the distresses of others. "Was there a remedy in nature for my diseafe, I should hope to receive it from your friendlhip; but ’tis not in fate, Said the poor creature, and Sunk down again on her pillow I did, and Said everything that humanity could devise, or pity invent, to Sooth her grief, and calm her Spirits. My tender assiduities Seemed at last to make her exert herself a little, and she became less agitated by degrees, when I led her tottering frame into her mother’s dressing room. iqn our entrance my
heart
)
\
[' h3 1
heart bled a frcfli'for her parents, in whose faces I read the anxiety of their
J
minds, and perceived their eyes were red with weeping: They endeavoured, however, to appear cheerful, and so did poor Louisa, who, 2 could perceive, reproached herself for giving so much pain to her fond pare.nrs. At night I pressed her to give me leave to sleep Yv'ich her: She thanked me, but Said, ilre could not think of mv changing my bed. I answered, Will you come to mine, then? She politely, declined the offer, alleging, that she knew how much I diflik’d a bedfellow. Well then, said I, to accommodate matters so, that you can have no objection to being with me all the night, as well as all the day, let the ' fettee bed be brought into my room; it is larire enough to hold three or four
O O
beds, if there was an occasion for
them, and then I shall be easy when I
have,
[ 144 ]
have you in the same room with me :
To this last proposal she reluctantly
4
consented, saying, however, that 1 was too good to her; but I fancy she finds a luxury in indulging her sorrow to excess when alone *, and for this very reason I prefs’d her so much to let, me sleep with her, for I think it highly improper that she should be left to herself.. I read the sincerest thanks in my guardian’s eyes, which were directed to me whilst I was talking to his daughter. And nov, my dear Lady Lucy, have I not a hard game to play I could hardly support my spirits under the load of rny own afflictions, before this interesting girl came here and now I am almost overpowered with the weight of her’s. You will see, by harry’s letter, that all my hopes of corresponding with him ' for the future are fled •, nay, he even intreats me to write to him no more.
How
\
%
• ^
[ 145 ].
How could his heart ever dictate, or his hand trace those words! Inexorable honour! How faered are thy bonds on the virtuous mind! My Harry is my flave, and ’tis because he is so that I shall and will love, whilst I have an idea, or a sensation left. The elder Boothhy has had an affair of honour (as it’s falsely called) at Paris, and has killed his antagonist:, for which reason he has thought proper to retire to Holland. from whence he writes to his Sather; I Saw his letter, in which he touches lightly on the Subject of the duel, and treats it as a bagatelle not worth making an apology for. What a tyrant is prejudice! How she Subdues the human reason, shnd models it to her purpose like wax! she’s a magician, who can convert the most: horrid of crimes into heroism, honour, courage, sac, Nay, it is Srequently esteemed a necefsary qualification in a vol. I., L Gentle[
[ ]
Gentleman to run another through the
body, on the most trifling occasions, such as the perversion of an unguarded expression, or, which is still more ridiculous, because perhaps his adversary has happened to have the Same taste as himstlf, and consequently is in love with the Same woman; as if it could beany recommendation of him to his mistress, to murder the man she preferred; for if fheriid not prefer him, there could be no reason for challenging him that I can conceive. This anecdote of George Boothhy is kept a {estrtt from Louisa, as her spirits are not in a situation to bear the shock which it would probably give her gentle nature : Her father and mother, however, are extremely wretched upon the fubje<st, as their honest hearts, and virtuous principles, can never be perverted, by the sophistry of the world, into a belief, that custom can
convert
C 147 ]
.. t ^
convert a breach of one of the first commandments of the Almighty, into a jpoint of honour, and a necessary evil iri the Social conipadl t In shorty ' Lucy, this is the house of mourning I believe L am the happiest being in at present; 1 leave you to judge of the rest. Adieu, my dearest friend •, write Soon, in order to enliven the ideas of yoiir affli<sted, but ever affedlionate, ’
Farnahy Ahhey, Julia Bolton.
. *•
*
Mr. Henry Boothby to the Hon. Miss Bolton. r' .r
y
JULIA! my lovely, my adorable Julia! what transports did your faithful Harry feel on the reception of your dear letter I transports, as pure as they Were'violent •, for F did not purchase them' by the forfeiture of my"' word, fihce I know not by y^ihat means ‘ ^
‘V '•. i -- V * V yqy ^
[ 148 ]
you' found out my address. but blefsm be the hand which gave it you. Your dear image, which I constantly wear on my breast, though it is painted in much livelier colours in my heart, ^ has been, my only consolation since the fatal day of our separation, Julia; the recolie(stion of that day, when ray father declar’d that I should See you no more, unmans me, and my tears obstrudl my sight *, yet he gave Such reasons for doing what I thought a cruel ast, as obliged me to admire him, even whilst I was a martyr to his. ' justice : He showed me to demonstration, my angel, what I ought always to have known, presumptuous as I was.. How unworthy an offer I was making, you, when 1 dared to propose myself! He showed me how ungenerous it was in me tp impose upon your tender and inexperienced heart, in order to rob, you, by a connexion with mysels, of
those[
[ ]
those advantages of rank, splendour,
c?r. to which your birth, fortune, and beauty, so justly entitled. you: He proved to me — or at least he tried to do so — that I lov’d with a passion not worthy of you •, since I preferred felf gratification to the honour and prosperity of the objefl belov’d. True love, he urg’d, (and such a one alone was worthy of being inspired by Miss Bolton,) must necefltarily be as disinterested and generous, as the source from whence it sprung • “could you,
“Harry, (said my father in a pathetic tone,) “fancy you loved with this ex“
“passion, when not being able
«
“to climb so high as the object of “your adoration, you would have pull’d her down to your level Be“ “did you never once refledb on “the dishonour which you must inevi “tably have brought upon me by this match? What would the world have
L 3 “said
r
\
[ 150 3
t
■ “on the occasion i Why, certain ly, that I was a villain, and had be“ “the trull her noble father, ' “the fon of my patron and benefactor“ “Wanfworth, had placed in me, ‘‘ with Such unbounded confidence. Know, Harry, that the hour which “had united you clandestinely with “my lovely Ward, would have pre ceded but a few days that of your “father’s death; as I could not have “furviv’d my honour, nor, indeed, the sorrow I should have felt, on feeing all my hopes of her future “establishment, in a manner worthy of “her, defeated by the machinations of “my own fon.” You seem affected at my discourse, child, (said my father.) I answered him by my tears. “Well, (continued he,) let virtue and “honour, be your guides; they will “support you in the confli<st, and in y fallibly conquer an ilhjudg’d paf“
“
[ II ]
“fion; time and absence will lend “their aid to this negeflfary work; “and; in the meanwhile, 1 entreat “Harry as a friend, and command “you as a father, never from hence “Torward to write aline, nor. cause one “to be wrote, to Miss Bolton 5 as I ^‘ intend to keep her totally ignorant “of every circumstance concerning “you, except the state of yourshealth; *■ that I will communicate to her, as “I will her's to you, because I would *- have you friends to each mother, “though not lovers.” And now,, my ' Son, Said he, give me your hand, and promise me, upon your honour, that you will neither dire(5bly,, norindireistly, give any information to julia, of the place of > your refidencej either whilst you are in England, or when you. shall he merance % even shouldshe, by any extraordinary accident, find out your direffion, and write to you; though, I
L 4 think,
[ 15^ ]
think, I shall take Such precautions as ■will render it impofiible *, in that cafe I insift upon your immediately insorm ing me of it, and I will instantly remove you out of her knowledge. Here he paused, as waiting for my answer; what could I do, but obey this best of fathers? I gave my word of honour to fulfil implicitly (as far as it was in, ny power) all his injundions; and in consequence of this promise, I have — how shall I tell it you, my Julia— — have, by this post, wrote to my Sather, to insorm him, that, by means unknown to me, you have discovered the place of my abode : Thus I have put it out of my power ever to be bless’d with another letter from you, as I am certain I shall instantly be removed from hence, as Soon as my Sather receives my letter; theresore I entreat you to write no more to me, even should you again find out where I am.
Heaven!
\
/
t 153 ]
Heaven ] is it possible that your 7drr)i
Should entreat not to hear from the idol of his heart! his Julia! Yes, my charming girl, I will love you, as you deserve to be belov’d for yourself; be happy in a properer choice: —
O! may the man you shall fix upon — Away, I cannot talk of him; my Julia, my brain turns — I would pro.. your happiness, miss Bolton, though eternal misery to myself should be tkc purchase. I will obey my father, though my life may be the Sacrifice, but I will never cease to love my Julia, whilst: my pulse beats, or my heart has one sensation lest in ic; to this I Swear; record it, ye host: of angels; and,, 0!. believe me, too generous, 'and too charming maid, that I am unalterably your saithsul, bqt unsortunate friend and lover,
■. - it.
Bordeaux. H e n R y Boo thby.' :. :
Lady
'I
V A
[ >54 ]
> ___________ _
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton,
TH A N K S, ' my Dear, for your long letter; it was tragical; but ■ ‘"full of matter i lahi rnore than half ' in love with your Harry, What a hbbbie'facrifice'bas he rhade to duty " ’and honour; but the' sly rogue knows wlxo he has to ideal with; he is Sure of his y^lfo’s constancy and affeiftion,; ' and yet, perhaps, not So, for true love ' is always full of shoubts and fears; let ^ ft be as it will j' I admire both him and his letter. His father too; what a Soul that martshas 1 He was always a great favourite of miner, shut now I could al worship his rhore xhari‘roman integrity," and for what"! ‘ybustl Say *, for contradi(sting anri ‘ plaguing * your ■ poor friend? .Dol yalm, no, T am truly sorry, that the virtues I admire in him, should, unfortunately, dash with the peace of my dear girl;
but
[ 155 ]
V :, i.. i ^,
but Virtue is not less herself, though she should Sometimes oppose our Schemes, and contradict our inclinai
■ ' ’ 4' •
tions. Mr. Boothhy is in the right, and you are not in the wrong; the end will, theresore, I hope, crown the work, by making you happy with your Harry, without wounding the honour of your Guardian; have but patience, my Dear, and all will be right. Poor Boothhy, how her behaviour puzzles me; I would Sain know the story of her heart; 'tis a mournful one, I am persuaded, whether of Friendship or of Love. How good you are to Sooth and comsort the afflicted girl; my heart catches the infection as I read your letters, and by pitying her Sufferings, I almost make them my own, till I am quite melancholy. Who can it be that George Boothhy has killed? 1 am glad neither my brother, nor Lord Malcom, were then at Paris; I
should
[ >56 J
I
should have died with apprehension if
they had, at lead till I was persedlly
acquainted with every circamftance of
the affair, and found out, that they
were neither of them parties concerned
in it: ’tis the attribute of a mind
which has never known real sorrows' '
go in search of imaginary ones;
it's an ugly reflection that, Julta, though'
I fear a true one, since it should stem
® '■ from thence that human nature was
«
. not calculated to enjoy perfeift happiness on earth; and that if, among the ^ whirl of incidents in this unaccountable world, one should be lucky enough to escape those misfortunes, which some people, even the mofl: virtuous - and prudent, are continually experiencing there should still be a reserve of discontent in our natures, which we ■ shy to for a source of inquietudes, alarms, and sorrows, in order to put it .......out of the power of chance to make us
«. X hr. ' • ‘ ^ ^ % ' '■
...... ‘
[ '57 ]'
happy. IS this be the cafe, as from observation I really think it is, why are we always in pursuit of a phantom, which we are predeftin’d never to attain? or if poffelted, (as she is supposed to have been by some people,) how has
r •
she instantly, upon being embraced, vanish’d from their arms! I tell you, Julia, she is nothing but the illusion of a distempered brain, realiz’d by theima, ^ gination of some frantic lover, and handed down to posterity by the mad votaries of Cupid and Bacchus. The fa^e declares her seat to be in the mind; if so, the surest means of obtaining her must be by estimating. things at their proper value, and not at the price the giddy multitude fet upon them; from hence will arise a contempt for most of thole gratifications, or pleasures, which the Many fb •, wildly run after, and/v?>(2/, rather because they see other people have, and still do
pursue
i
[ «5?, ]
pursue them, than from any real taste they have for them therhselves. This method of thinking, will, in a great measure, simplify our desires, and eradicate our prejudices; we shall then have nothing to do but to turn the fair
. i ' •
fide of the mirror, and by stating can didly our lot in life, with that of millions of our fellow creatures. Sit us down, thankful to Providence that
I
we are not so wretched as many are and have been; and that since real happiness is incompatible with our nature, we ought to be content with not being miserable.
1 believe Epicurus was in the right, who defined happiness to be'no more than a cefifation from pain; f arh sure' ' was more so than his virulent enemies the who insisted that paiin
was not an evil. But where' am I wandering with your favourite Cirrr<7he thought as I do, I ash persuaded, though
>
[ ]
he was too proud to own it. Let me leave Philosophy, in which I make but a bad figure, and return to Ivy cajhs, where its very name's unknown. yes terday Kitty Hackit became a bride; the dinner was elegant, and the company. brilliant, at Ivy Cajile; in the evening the young couple returned to Lewis Farm; Kate defir’d they might do foi Sancy she was rather impatient to get from under the roof of her Lady Mother, who, however, behaved tolerably well all the day to her daughter, and remarkably politely to her fon in law., This evening we are to have a little sele<st ball at Mr. lewis’s; Hackit, has requested the honour of dancing with. me *, so now for the declaration; when his blood is Set in to'motion by exercise, he .perhaps will get courage, enough to Speak *, I am quite prepared to hear him,. So the Sooner it's over the. better J I shall quickly give him the
coup
[ .60 ] '
coup de 'grace •, I must now go and dress i so adieu, my Dear, till tomorrow. /
Well, Julia, it’s out; I don’t won -- der it was so long a coming, for it was a finished piece of oratory, and delivered with the utmost grace, piping hot,, after having danced a cotillon not of the quietest fort. Lady Lucy, (Said' the man, quite out of breath,) it’s pro dtgimisty hot tonight. I don’t think so, fays'l for I am cool enough. Ah! you are, indeed, but too cool, reply’d the sop, or the fire which conftimes my
\
heart, must have kindled a flame in that gentle bosom of your's; but, alas! you are cold. Lady Litcy, cold as ice.
I laugh’d in his face, (I could not help it, )saying. Lord, you're vastly mistake en, ' Mr. Hackit, Sori really find the • room warm, though not very hot. This answer, I perceived, 'disconcerted him a little; I meant ic should; how' '

I
[ ii ]
ever, I Sat filent, looking at him with an attention, as much as to Say, Come, go on, I want to hear the rest; he did not immediately find the end of his discourse, for I am convinced that he does not care one farthing for me. It requires some degree of understanding, and even address, to make love methodically, the latter of which ingredients he has none of, and not too much of the former; had he really felt any the least inclination for my person, he would have found no difficulty in telling me so, since the language of the eyes is understood all over the globe, when dicstated to by the feelings of the heart: But this was not Mr. Hackifs cafe, for which reason he was puzzled to death for words to express .what he did not feel. The poor creature actually excited my pity, and, turning to him, I said, with an affecsted softness in my voice, “How do you vol. I., M “dov
[ 1^2 ]
do. Sir? you look melancholy, *’” (observe he had been filent for some minuteshe now collefled his small parcel of fenses together, and reply’d, with a sigh as affected as my softness.
How Should I be otherwise, loveliest
}
“your Sex, whilst you thus remain “insenfible to the tender and ardent “paliion with which you have inspired “me?” Indeed, Julia, I really could hardly keep my countenance, and had not prudence and good breeding come to my aid, I most certainly should have affronted him, by laughing immoderately at his affedlation. hook’d; grave, however, and answered, you liirprize me, Mr. haait, Sure you don’t know what you’re talking about; you have certainly caught a Sever by dancing too much, and are actually in a delirium; do. Said I, with a tender concern, go home to bed, you make me lineasy to See you thus. Lord,
Madam,
t 163 ]
Madam, reply’d the poor devil, your Ladyship is entirely in an error with regard to my health, for, I thank God, I have no other disease but that which your fine eyes have caused in my heart; “Do then, divine Lady Lucy, com“ “my sufferings, and bid “rrie live.” Here he ventur’d to take one of my hahds; I did not withdraw it, because, so long as he did not pinch my fingers, it was the same thing to rne whether he held it or not. I would not have suffered the man I love to have pofiefied it half the time. Tell me, Julia, why this diftinclioh? but I must not quit niy swain yet. Speak,
- angelic creature, (said he,) affe6ling a rapture, (which was really a grimace,) pronounce my doom. I look’d at him with an air of contempt, and said, I cannot deny, Mr. Hackit, the having perceived, for some tithe, that yourself and family (or rather the latter, I be
m2 lieve)
[ «64 ]
Tieve) have wished, that an alliance might take place between you and me, and I should long since have been as explicit upon the subject as I am now going to be, had you (by being more communicative) given rne the opportunity; however, I apprehend your intention now to be, that I should look ‘ upon all those wejl turned compliments, which you have so liberally bestowed upon me, as an offer of your hand and fortune. Love is, you know, quite out of the question, on these occasions, in this polite age, and, fortunately for you, I have not inspired you with the Smallest Spark of that pashon. Here he was going to interrupt me, but I stopped him by continuing my discourse“ “you will not “be shade absolutely miserable, Mr.
“Hackit, when I honestly tell you “that my hand shall never be given without my heart, and my heart is
y already
. It. - ^ ' '
• V
I
) -
[ 1^5 ]
“already dispofed of; however, I am “much obliged to you. Sir, for the honour you intended me, and had I been totally disengaged, when I ar rived at Ivy Cajile, I should, perhaps, “have thought Seriously of your pro“ “J but as that was not the case, “I beg you would fix your affeflions “where they will meet with the re“ “they merit, and for the future,
’ “let you and I regard one another
“with the eye of friendlhip only, “without ever resuming a topic on “which you will find me inflexible.” Here 1 ceased Speaking; he did not look afflicted at what I had Said; no, but he looked piqued, and only answered, with a disconcerted air. If this be your final resolution. Lady hucy Scott, I am miserable indeed. I thought of your maxim, Julia, that the men don’t like to be resused, though they, perhaps, would be Sorry to be accepted.
M 3 Every
[ i66 ]
Everybody npw was seated at the tea tables; I rose and joined them.: The rest of the evening Mr. Hackit appeared to be much more at his ease' with me than ever I had Seen him, and
was, for that reason, not near So dis
> 0 - * • >
agreeable as usual. I really believe the poor lad has either fixed his affections upon Some girl, or has a persecst aversion to me as a wife, and therefore delighted at being released from the drudgery of making love, where his heart feels no attachment. As we re turned home, he and I. in the chariot, he ashed my friendship with an honest warmth, wish which he had never soil cited njy love. He really labours un' great disadvantages, by living con tiniiajly wish such parents, who hardly allovy hirn a shilling in his pocket; by ' which means he must either keep low company, or none at all. I have wrote, to my father., requesting that his chaise.
...
t
[ i ]
/
rfnay be Sent for me next week: I shall leave ihe lewis’s with regret *, 'tis impossible to describe how happy the bride appears to be; pleasure dances in her eyes, and Rapture in those of her husband. Lady Hackit and I had a long discourse today, about my re fusal of her Son; I very politely lamented my having been preengaged: : I had the pleasure of Seeing. him; and she, finding that all her arguments and persuasions were to no efseft, Said, with an angry tone, “it’s “a great missortune when young girls “are made independent of their pa“ “I answered, that, in general,
I believ’d it was so; but I hoped to be an exception to the rule, asj never would either marry, or take any other fimportant flep in life, without.eonfult ing my parents, and obtaining their approbation of my conduct. She made meno reply, foi left her, and went
M 4 up
[ *68 ]
Up flairs, ' in order to tell Susan that I intended to leave the Castle soon, that she might get everything in readiness against the time •, She Seemed pleas’d with the news; I Sancy the girl’s heartily tired of her green fields, sdc. good b'ye, my Dear; the length of this letter frightens me. Direct your next to Tat tonne Lodge. Yours,
Lvy Cajile. .Lucy Scottj
.1 '
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
Thanks, my dear Lady Lucy, for your last long letter; your departure from the Castle made me not write, till I supposed you arrived at home. I am glad you have lest those disagreeable old people; the Scene at Lewis Farm, between you and Mr. Hackit, diverted me much : I have had one on the Same Subject, but executed quite in a. different style from
your's;
t
[ i59 ]
your’s; know then, my Dear, that your Lord and his father have been here; they went away this morning, after having spent a few days with us. I think Lord mauom one of the most agreeable men, both as to mind, understanding, ' and figure, that I ever met with; and had not my heart been engaged to Harry, and 1 never had Seen your brother, Lord Tatlon, this young Nobleman would have been the man of rny choice; that is, Supposing your Ladyship out of the question; Sori could never bear to be the rival of any woman, much less that of my friend. Our meeting (your lover’s and mine, I mean,) was easy, and as if we had been long acquainted with each other. I was pleased to See the Lover of my Lucy, and I believe my countenance Spoke truth *, Sori Saw Lord Kelfo and my Guardian look at one another with a nod, as much as to Say, she does not
dislike
I
r .Do ]
dislike his person. On their being in * croduced into the drawing-room, where i Mrs. Boothhy and I were sitting at work after tea, Mr. Boothhy presented the father and Son to his wise, and then to me. Lord Kelfo paid me the compliment of Saying, that I was one of the beautifullefl: young creatures he had ever beheld; this was, however. Spoke in a kind of whisper to his Son. Lord Malcom came and placed himself by me on the Sopha *, I made room for him with pleasure, and when the old folks had got into conversation, I afl<’d him, in a low voice, when he left Ivy Castle, and my friend Lady Lucy. — Scott? His eyes Sparkled at your namefsand he reply’d. If I would believe my heart, Miss Bolton, ages are past: since I Saw your too lovely friend;
But pray. Madam, when did you “last; hear shorn her? Is she still at Sir jafper’s ?” Yesterday, lanswered, I
; had
[ lyi ] ‘
had a letter from her, wherein she tells me her intention of leaving the Castle next week. Here, in all the dignity of Sorrow, entered the lovely Louisa;; rose to salute her •, foe gracefully (aster making the proper compliments) Seated herself on a chair next me; I took her hand, and asked her how fly did as, at dinner, she complained of the headache. Always the better. for your attentive kindness, she re ply’d, preliing the hand I had given her; How amiable, cried Lord Malcom, is friendship in your Sex, Ladies! It is a noble Sentiment in itself, but when dressed in female softness is irre siftible. don’t be jealous, Dary, Spr, the man was thinking of you all the while: He continued, “The first:, time “I ever made this observation was, - “when Lady Lucy Scott Spoke of you, “Miss Bolton *, and what I have just • ‘‘ pass between you and Miss'
f Boothhy,
\
, [172 J
** bboihhj, confirms rne in my opi nion.” I took this occasion of Saying ibme liaridfome things of your Ladyship, first, because I thought them, and next because I would not appear to be insensible to that friendship, which constitutes, in a great measure, the happiness of my life. Upon this easy foodmg. Lord Malcom and I walked aiid chatted together fpf some days, till at lad things grew to a crists, wfiee, ©ee morning, his lord ship told me, with a Smile, that he must: have roy answer to the fopposed offer he had made me, of his band and heart. I answered him in the lame tone, that I could not bring myself to give him a private denial, but a public one he should have that very afternoon, and at the same time begged he
^ OO
would take care to adjust his countenance, in a proper manner, upon the occasion, lest he should, through inadvertency.
[ *73 1
vertency, forget to look miserable, when a fine girl, worth upwards of one hundred thousand pouods, reje^cd his Suit. He laughed, and affiired me, that he would arrange his ieamres according to my directions; bee, said he, with a more ferioos air, I mush beg leave to tell ■ you. Mils Bdim^ that had I not been compelled, by an irreshtible Sympathy, to refigiq my heart at the first: sight of your fair friend; or, in other words, had I meyer seen her, for to see and love her are lyno
t
nymous; 1 promise you. Madam, that at this moment I fiioold have been rendered completely miserable, by the refusal which you are wkh So much ease preparing to give me. Well, my Lord, said I, laughing, it's very lucky ■ for Lucy and Harry, I think, that you and I did not know one another before V e had lost our hearts to them.
■ ‘ We
* *
[ 174 ]
r
We were now summoned to dinner; after the cloth was removed, Lord Kelfo told me, how happy he should think himself, if his fon could gain the affeshions of so amiable’ a young Lady as I was; he alfured me, upon bis honour, that the virtues of my blind had been stronger motives to his seeking an alliance with me, than any consideration of the large fortune I poffelfed. My dear young Lady, said his Lordship, I have long been enamourki with the chara6ler which your (jliardian, and his worthy Lady, have constantly given me of you; and had you not been worth one shilling, I should as ardently have wished to hav(! seen you the wife of Lord Malcom, as if you had been worth millions. I
bowed to this compliment, and, with
«
as much courage as I could muster up upon the occasion, (for I trembled like a leaf,) afllired his Lordship, that
I esteemed
[ 175 1,
T esteemed myself infinitely honoured by the preference he had shown me in his choice of a daughterdn iaw; adding, that I should ever retain the most grateful sense of the good opinion he was pleased to Say he had conceived of me ♦, in order to merit which, at least in some small degree, I would, with, my guardian’s permission, answer his Lordship's obliging proposals, by lay,, before him, without any disguise, the real sentiments of my heart. Mr. Boothhy looked at me rather sternly, saying. You are at liberty to speak, Miss Bolton, but I entreat you to weigh * well what you are going to say,
I made no answer to him, but, ad dreshng myself to Lord Kelfo, I said,
I must beg the favour of your patience, my Lord, whilst I relate the little story of my life *, it cannot, I am sensible, afford any amusement to your lord ship, but it is essential to the justifica
•. tion
'■ [ 176 ■]
tion of my conduct“ “was but ' “three years of age, when that wor thy couple (bowing to Mr. and Mrs. Boothhy) supply’d to me the “place of my dear parents, whom I lost at that period; they brought me ‘‘ to their house, and there treated me “as if I had been their .own child,
“with the same care, and, to all ap“ “with equal fondness. I was educated with their children,
t
“among whom my little heart soon“ “their second fon; my “love of him was the first idea I can “remember, and will, probably, be “the last I shall retain; it increased“ “my years, as did his for me;
“every day, every hour, gave new “strength to our mutual passion, till it could increase no more: Mr.boothhy, who, I stippofe, perceived that we “lived blit for each other, abontthree “years ago thought proper to separate
us,
I
J
[ >77' ]
US, charging us at the same time, on our duty, never to correspond, or “think of each other but as friends;
“declaring, that we should never be “united with his consent, and that if “we were without it, he would re“ “us ever as his children; not “contented with this, he has endea voured, by all possible means, to “secrete the place of harry’s residence“ “me, and is now trying to fe“ “my alfeshions from him, by “presenting to me as a lover one of “the most amiable men I ever saw“
“one who is so every way de“ “myefteem, that, had not “my heart been already engaged, I “must have resigned it to him j but “as it has been soever since I knew I ■
• t
“had one, nothing will ever be able “to (hake my constancy;; “time, opposition, nor entreaties, will “have any effect; for my resolution vol. I. N “is
[ .DS ]
“is fixed, either to marry Harry, '‘'‘ Boothhy, or die in my virgin state
^ I ceased speaking, heartily glad that my talk was over. Mr. Kccthhy said, addrefiirig himself to Lord Kelfo, Nshatcan be done, rny Lord, with this obstinate girl? Lord Malcom said to me, with some spirit, Miss Bolton, though' I am' rendered unhappy by the candid declaration you have just now made, yet give me leave to tell you, that had I known your connexion with Harry Boothhy, no human consideration should have induced me to have declared myself the rival of mv friend; I therefore
J
beg of you. Madam, when you write to that young Gentleman, you would represent this affair to him in such a manner, as that I may not lose his friendship, which I value equal to my life. I write to him, I reply’d, that will never be! His cruel father has taken effeshual means to deprive us of
that
[ u9 ]
that consolation, by keeping me ignorant of where he is. I can tell you that, Said Lord Malcom. No, indeed, but you cannot, answered Mr. Boothhy, for he is no longer where he was Some time ago. Lord Kelfo, approaching my chair, told me, with many corhpli ments on the candour of my proceeding with him, how Sorry he was at being obliged to relinquish all the flattering hopes he had conceived of Seeing me one of his family: When, turning to Mr. Boothhy, he said, I think, my good friend, you push your nice sense of honour too far, thus to distress two innocent hearts, which feern to be form’d for each other. Lord Malcom ' whifper’d me, that he would, if possible, find out my lover’s direction •, I nodded my thanks, and so ended this farce.
«
The next morning our noble guests departed; 1 was sorry to lose Lord Malcom so soon; he thank’d me corn
2 dially
, [ io ]
'1
dially for the decisive manner in which I had discarded him, and now longs to shake an open offer of his hand, where it will, he hopes, be more acceptable. He is, indeed, worthy of you, my Lucy, if any man can deserve so great a treasure, as you justly call yourself. I had forgot to tell you, that you were frequently the topic of our conversation, *, Boothhy and I vied with each other who should praise you most;; Malcom now and then put in a word cautiously. His father said, he had heard much of your beauty and merit, but as he had no sort of connexion with Lord longf down’s family, he had never seen you. Adieu, good night, I am tired to death with writing.
Farnahy Ahhey. Yours,
Julia Bolton,
, 'T From
\
>»
[ i ]
From the Same to the Same.
WH E R E are you gone, or what are you doing, that I don't hear from you, my friend? In your last you told me, you should Set out for Tatton Lodge the week following; sure no accident has happen’d to you upon the road! God forbid! My heart faints at the thought; do, write immediately, I cannot bear suspense, especially when your fafety’s in question.
I have a most tragical story to tell you, but it's too long to be inserted in a letter, so you must be contented to have it as you can get it, either by straps, or by some private hand, if I can find one. Poor Louisa unloaded her full heart to me the other day; her father and mother were gone on a formal visit, where I declined accompanying them, and their daughter is not well enough to dress, so she and I
N 3 were
V
- » * *
[ is ]
were left by ourselves all the afternoon; as Soon as she perceived we were So, she rose from her chair, and, flinging her arms round my neck. Slow kind you are, Said she, my dear Julia, to stay at home today, on purpose to bear me company, I who am so incapable of affording you any entertainment; but you are all goodness, generosity, and friendlhip, Miss Bolton. — If you think me all you Say, I reply’d, you would, my dear Louisa, unbosom your griefs to her you had So high an opinion of, and not thus destroy yourself, and torture me, by your obstinate concealment of them. Do you, then, said she, (looking me fledfaftly in the face,) so ardently wish to hear my story, that the secreting it from your knowledge really gives you pain? I answered, it did, because, I was persuaded, that, by being acquainted with it, I might have it in my power, by
some
» <*
[ ].
means or other, if not to remove, at least to alleviate the excess of her afflishion. She figh’cl, and answered, Well, then, my amiable friend, I will tell the history of my heart; but I am
afraid that there are Some circum
\
in it, of So extraordinary a nature, that you will hardly be brought to believe them, though I should as sure you that they were sads. Indeed, but I Shall believe everything you ' tell me upon your honour for a truth,
J
Said I, with vivacity. “Thank you, she reply’d, “and depend upon my “veracity; and now listen to my tale,
“and prepare to pity me, though I “much fear I shall never have strength “to go thro’ the painful narration.” Here she began her story, which I will send you by Parson Jones, who is going northward, and called this moment to tell me so, and to alk my .commands. 1 told him I had a pacqnet
N 4 for
’ \
1
[ i84 ]
t
for you; he promised to take care and deliver it into your own Sair hands; but, I afiure you, it has been a work of time, both to hear and write these Memoirs of lomfd.s *, as you may sup pofe that we have met with Srequent interruptions in the narration, and I have had the utmost difhculty in finding time to give it you upon paper; S nay, I durst: not venture to do it, till P I had her permission;; She not g granted it to my Solicitations, excuse me, my dear Lucy, but I should certainly have kept her Secret, even from you, though I would not wish to conceal one thought of my heart from my friend. Adieu, I long to hear that you are Safe arrived at Tatton Lodge; remember you promised to pay me a visit at Farnahy Ahhey this Summer, and So did Lord Tat tonne % I know he is a man of his word; besides, tell him that we expeist a Beauty here shortly, Lady
Jam
[ is] ■]
Carr, a friend of Miss Btrcthhyh, just imported from Paris she’s the daughter and only child of the Earl of Plumfiead, young, gay, and a little inclined to coquetry; the very thing for your brother! Come, then, both of you, and aid me to comfort the truly to be pitied Louisa. I think, however, the poor creature is rather easier, since she told her melancholy story to your ever affecstionate friend,,
Farnahy Ahhey. Julia Bolton.
I — — — im m ■■ ■ ■ ■■■i wmm tmmm> i
The Hijiory of Miss Boothby.
I
T Was, I suppose you may remember,
* my dear Julia, sent over lo France, with the Countess of Plumfead, whose husband was then our Ambassador at that Court. This Lady was a particular friend of my mother’s, and had said so much to her, in praise of a
French
• \ 4
[ 3
French edueafion, and the imposhbility. of learning the language in any of our engujh Schools, that Ihe at last: prevailed with her to consent that I should go over with her Ladyship; requesting her, however, to place me in a Convent, where the children of the best: Samilies in that kingdom were educated. Lady Flurnjiead promised I should be in the Same house with her own daughter, and assured her, that fire would treat me in every re spe6t as if I was her child. My father readily came into this proposal, as he, foresaw, that my mother’s excess of fondness for me, and indulgence to me, (as being her only girl,) would both fpqil my temper, and prevent my making any progress in those accomplishments, which are so necessary to be acquired by young Ladies of any *. rank in life. I remember to have. heard him say, “There are not, two
“Jtilla
t
'[ -87 ]
V
“Julia Boltons in the woikl; fne will “learn even without masters, and in'
'' ■ A ■ ■
“diligence cannot make her neglect “her studies.” I left my parents with regret; you, my Dear, I knew but little of; as I had been at School Some time before I quitted England, where posttive orders had been given by my mother, that I should not be contradicted, consequently I did nothing but play. — The journey, joined to the variety of new objeshs, as well as Scenes, which succ^^stively presented themselves TO my view. Soon made me forget home. Lady Plumjlead treated rrie with the most maternal tenderness, and Seemed delighted both with my/company, and the childisti observations I made on the people and country, as we travelled from Calais to Paris, When we were arrived at that capital, she kept me with her for a month; at the end of which time, she took me
a few
/
[ is ]
a few miles out of Pans, to a Royal Abbey, in order to pay a visit to the abbess, and Nuns of the Convent, which I was deflin’d to reside in for Ibme years. There is nothing I can say,, my dear Julia, can give you a perfect idea of the insinuating manners of, the Nuns; to conceive it, you must have been acquainted with some of tfiem; there is a fost Sensibility in their eyes, and in the tone of their • voices, which touches the heart. They are, to use a French expression, feduc ingly carejj'ante. Such is the exterior of all the Nuns, who are suffered to appear at the grates of their parlours, and such were those I that morning law. The flattering compliments they ' paid to my little person, the Sense and vivacity^shey pretended to read in my eyes, the declarations they made of their admiration of my figure, and uncommon'underftanding, for a child
of
\
>
[ j
of my age; add to this, the number leis presents they made me of beads, housewifes, pincushions, pictures of saints, and Sugar plumbs, and you will not be Surprised to hear, that all these things put together almost turn’d my head, and entirely gained my heart,
I wished to live with Such amiable, good-natured Ladies as these Nuns (I took it for granted) were., I was thus prejudiced in their favour, from the Same motive which visibly ashuates the judgement of the world in general, without the exception of either age or Sex, the love of flattery. We are pleased with the glass, however despicable in itself, which represents us to ourselves in an agreeable point of view.
When Lady Plumjlead and I were Seated in the coach, she alked me what 'I thought of living in a Nunnery? I replied, that I believ’d I should like it vastly, because the Nuns Seemed to be
Such
', [ ipo ]
/
such obliging, pretty kind of women. Her Ladyship said, she was very glad to find that the oddity of their dress, and their being Seen behind a grate, had not dilgusted me, as they frequently did children of rny age : She then told me, that Die was pursuadest I should be very happy in this' Convent, especially when 1 got acquainted with my little companions, of vvhich she believed there were upwards of sixty in the house, all of whom were sirls of birch and fafbion; However,
; added she, if, upon a further knowledge of the place, you Should not like your situation, my Dear, only tell me So, and you shall instantly be removed to one more agreeable to your taste; but if, on the contrary, it should happen to please you, I will then immediately write for my daughter to come and board in the Same house with yon. I thank’d her Ladyship for all her
/
) ■ r '
[ 191 .] 0^
'/
goodness to me, and in a few days my clothes were pack’d up, and Lady Plumjlead and I fet out for the Royal
Abbey of C -- -- -- -- -. On our arrival,
the coach stopp’d at a large pair of gates, which, upon the fervant’s pulling a bell, instantly stew open, and we drove into a great court, built round with cloisters; in the middle of which was an immense crucifix, on it was a figure of our Saviour almost naked, and bleeding at every pore; and on the other fide a weepingvirgin, both bigger than the life. Round this cross was a sort of oarden, full of vari ous flowers and shrubs, and railed in. vhth iron palisades, like some of our squares in London. This 1 found was the burial place of the Nuns, upon V hose graves I perceived there were stuck little crucifixes of wood. We had no sooner got out of the coach than it drove out of the yard, and the
great
1
[ 192 ]. '
great g^tes were instantly lock’d and ■ bolted, by two Nuns, with large bunches^of keys at their girdles; these
- told me, were called Portrefles, a high charge in a Convent, and therefore generally given tp the oldest, and. most discreet among them.
I was, on looking round me, a good deal struck with the awful solemnity of this gothic building, and the apparent piety, of its inhabitants : They perceived I was so, and, therefore, in ■ order to distipate my attention, offered me chocolate, shifeuits, sweetmeats of ail sorts : One would flrow me the garden, 'another rhe refeudre, or diningroom;; short, they hurried me over all that part of the house, which particularly belonged to themselves, in a mom.enr, kishng and careshng me alternately, from one to the other, almost at every step we took; at last they carried me to the Dcrtcire, or
gallery, '
/
■ ■ [193 .] '
gallery, in which all the‘nuns have their separate cells, with the name of the poirefsor of each wrote upon the outside of the door, together with a print pasted upon it,, representing the Saint whose name they have taken upon them at their profession. these ^ cells are very Small, but vastly neat *, the furniture of them consists of a bed, a table, one chair, and a crucifix, Some prayer books, a lamp, and frequently a death’s head, and two cross bones. The Surniture and Size of these little' chambers did not please me, and 1^ Sell a crying, ashing, if I was to steep in one of them? They feem’d alarm’d at my tears, and took every possible' means of removing them, by asturing. me, that I should lay in a handsome large room, “like those used by peo “pie in the world; ” remark, this is the language of a Convent. After having thus been dragged all over this vol. I. O immense
C 04 ]
\
immense pile of building, till I was heartily tired, we returned to the com mm, a room so called, where the Nuns take their recreations and work, in Short,
their drawing-room, if you will. There we found the Lady abbess and the Countess, who had, I suppose, during my absence, been giving her orders how She would have me treated and educated, as also Settled the grand point, which was my pension, for these pious Ladies know persedly well the proper value of money. She then took me in her arms with great tenderness, and Seeming Sensibility, promising to See me often, and in the mean time gave positive orders that I should receive, and write, whatever letters I pleased, without any Sort of restraint from their being examined by
anybody; adding, with a significant
• ^ /
at the abbess, “She is not yet “of an age to render any precaution
“on
V
■ t 195 ] '
on that head necessary;; therefore “must inshl, that stie may be left en“ “at liberty upon that article, “and if I find it otherwise, I Shall in“ “remove her from hence, be“ “I know her parents would “never be easy, if they were not made “acquainted with the real Sentiments “os their child, upon her present situ“ “Then, putting on an air of great importance, she Said, Miss Boothhy is a girl of Samily, Salhion, and Sortune, which, I Sancy you. Ladies (looking at the Nuns) have already guested her to be, both from the pension stie pays, and the person who places her’here; I shall therefore expect her to be treated with all possible attention, tenderness, and respedt. Here she curt’sy’d to the Nuns, kisted me, and went away. This last Speech of the ambastadrefs’s, calculated (I suppose) for that purpose, had an infinite
O 2 effea
[ 196 ]
effesh to my advantage upon the hearers : For you are to observe, Julia, that these good Devotes * estimate the value of their pensioners, not by their merit, but from the degrees of rank and fortune which they are sup poled to poffess in the world. I have aflually Seen them carry this absurd ^ piece of pride So Sar, as to give up their Savourite among the boarders, (for almost every Nun has one, whom She calls fa cheer file f)) because a new comer has (upon unpacking her baggage) been Sound to have either more, or perhaps richer clothes, than her predecestbr in their favour had. Ridiculous as this distindlion may appear to you, it’s a real facst; and not only So in the Convent I was then in, but universally in all of them, if I may
believe what. I have heard people of
0
... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -
m
* Devout women. t Her dear daughter.
credit
4 '
[ i]
credit assert, who have known a great number of them. Nay, my Dear, is it not a criterion which is too often
fi
used by the world? V\thy then should it be excluded the walls of a Nunnery? where, whilst the unfortunate viflims to superstition renounce the world with their lips, they carry all its prejudices,, together with their own passions, into the interior of it in themselves. ^but I deviate from my story. — aster Lady flumfteats departure, I was (as being a stranger) honor’d with an invitation from the Lady abbess, to dine with her, and the whole community, in the Refehloire: I did So, and was Seated on her right hand; herfels, theprioress, and two or three other dignified Nuns, Sat at our table; the rest at long ones, where they were Seated according to their Seniority; and in the middle of the room was placed a table, at the upper
O 3 end
\
[ >98 1
end of which Sat a Nun, who, they told me, was the miftress of the Novices, with her Novices (properly So called) in white veils, on each fide of her. I should have told you, that before we went to dinner, a grace was Said of above half an hour long; it appeared to me to be a Litany to the Virgin, who, they informed me, had, in return for this piece of devotion of theirs, preserved their house from fire, Sori don’t know how manyiages. Whilst they rehearsed this prayer (or whatever they called it) the Nuns all flood * in ranks, with their veils down, their hands join’d, and their backs to the tables, which were placed exactly like those at Greenwich, or any other hos pital. This ceremony over, a pair of folding doors (Such as are frequently to beaufets) opened at the end of the room, and discovered, a wheel, or tour,
as
i
/;
t
t 199 ]
as they call it, into which the Cook (the kitchen being on the other fide of it) put the dinner, and turned it into the Refeffoire. The Lay Sisters waited at all the tables; the Abbess had a good dinner of fish and vegetables, for it was a meagre day, being Friday.. The Nuns who were not with us had ^ each, I observed, their portions served,
, separate plates, from the kitchen; but what they confided of I could not guess, only I thought it an uncom, fortable manner of eating. The Ladies at our table eat heartily, during which time a young Nun sat near us reading, with a very audible voice,
(in order to be heard all over the room,) the lives of the saints, though I took notice that nobody seemed to listen to her but myself; the story she that day read appeared to me so very extraordinary a one, that, I am certain,
I shall never forget it whilst I live; it ■
O 4 was
[ 200 ]
♦ I
was the life of St. Alexis, and is to be, - found in a book, entitled La Cour Saint.
Dinner over, and grace Said, they all went out of the room fmgmglatin, except one Nun, who, taking me by the hand, led me into what they call the Class; it is a part of the house appropriated entirely to the use of their ', Scholars *, there they sleep, and have apartments, in which they receive the inftrikstions of their Mailers, or mi strefles. Upon my being introduced into the School room, I was instantly Surrounded by fifty or Sixty girls, who all expressed their joy on the acquisition of a new companion. I was gazing about me with wonder at the novelty of the Scene, when a well looking venerable Nun advanced towards me, leading a young Lady by the, hand, whom she presented to me. Saying, I beg leave to present a country
* ..■ f, ■ — ... ■■
* I have read it in verse, I think in Drydeds Mifcellauies.
woman
*
/
[ 201 ]
woman of your’s to you, Miss; she Is the only engujh girl we have in the house, consequshtly is very impatient, to be made known to you. I raised my eyes on her, and felt as if my Soul
f
at that inftapt had darted through my breast: into her’s, there to take up it's
residence for ever. She flew into my
\
arms, killed my cheeks and Sorehead with transport, and expressed her joy on my being an inhabitant of the Same house with her, in the most .lively and obliging terms. The old Nun checked her vivacity, by Saying, “My Dear,
“the pleasure you Seel on Seeing an “englijjo Lady Should not make you “forget all good manners and deco“ “I was Sorry fly chid this lovely girl, and therefore made Some apologies for her. I suppose I need not tell you, Julia, after the Scene which pasted Some time ago, on her being mentioned by ray father, that her name was Merton.
9
[ 202 ]
tonne — Here Louisa paused, and wip’d her eyes; she thus went on — At five o'clock in the afternoon, myself and School'sellows were all Summoned, by the ringing of a bell, to Supper; an hour So very unusual to me, that you' shay suppose I did not eat shuch; it chiefly consisted of Sried fish and Salad; miss Merton Sat by me; as Soreigners we had always the precedency given us. Such is the politeness of the French.
'She frequently took my hand under the table, and her every look expressed the lively friendship she had conceived
for me. The old Nun before men
1
tioned flood at her chair back, and seemed to observe us with an attentive, and, I thought, a jealous eye. When we rose from table, we all went into the garden, which was really a fine one, and extremely extensive: : of the young Ladies played at ball, others at bowls; in short, every one
amused
\
[ ] ',
t
amused themselves according to their. taste, whilst: the old Nun, whose name was La Conception, or the Conception,
(a strange name, you’h Say, but a very common one in Convents *,) miss Merton and I Sat in a chapel (of which there are Several in the garden) looking at them. Madam La Conception neither Spoke, nor understood one word of engujh, so that my companion and I conversed with perfecb ease in that language before her, which seemed. to give her pain, for Ihe frequently interrupted us; at last she insisted upon our walking about, fearing, Ihe said'
'we might take cold from sitting so long in the air: “The devil take her, said Miss Merton, riling; “this old “harradan is the plague of my life •, ** she follows me everywhere like an evil genius, and seems jealous of everybody I speak to. We rose, however, in obedience to her request, and joined
our
. /
[ 204 ]
our little companions. At eight o’clock we were all ordered into our respeflive apartments, in order to go to bed; I was (hewn to mine, which was a neat little room, next to that of one of the mistresses of the class, for lb those.
, Nuns are called, who preside over the education of the children; this I found was a distinction paid to me rather uncommon, as all the other girls, excepting myself and Miss Merton, slept in two long rooms, like those in an hospital, with little beds, ranged pretty close together, on each fide of the room; in each of these rooms lay one of the Mistresses: 1 was glad to ' find I had a chamber to myself, to which I even long’d to retire, in order to.refled with liberty on the novelty of my present situation.
The next day brought me a kind letter from Lady Plumjlead, together with a neat bureau, which contained
every
1
[ =^05 ]
every necessary material for writing, as also a dressing glass, Silver candlestick.. candles, tea, coffee, chocolate in abundance, together with a Set of tea cups. Spoons, a knise and Sork, some,, towels, and a number of other ' things, which you must: procure for yourself, or go without in a Nunnery.
1 was never so rich before in my life, and fancied myself in a situation to see - up housekeeping if I chose it. I Consigned, however, all these things to the care of a Lay Sister, who was appointed to wait upon me in the capacity of my maid. A Lay Sister is a Nun, but one who is not obliged to prove her birth to be noble, as those of the choir (as they call themselves) are; they are required to bring much less money into the Convent than their Superiors, and therefore make up that deficiency by their labour, as they are the only Servants in the house. There is also Some
trifling
'\
[ 206 ]
trifling difference in their dress, besides its being made of coarser materials, in order to distinguish them from their
'C
Mistresses; nor are'they admitted to Say all the Service of the church with, their Superiors, but have bounds Set them how far they shall go in the prayers, and no Sarther; as if the Almighty (like his creatures) was a re spectre of wealth and titles.
I had not slept all the night, my head was too Sull of what I had Seen in the day; I rose, therefore, rather incommoded, and went into the class, or School room, where I Sound Miss Merton; she advanced eagerly up to
me, and begged I would do her the honour of breaksafting with her; I readily consented, and we had a little tabic in a corner of the room to our
I
Selves; the old Nun, I Sound, was gone to mass. I asked miss Merton if she was a Roman Catholic; she
answered,
[ 207 ]
answered“ “yes, we are all So here “but you; ’* my papa is of your religion, and that is the reason why I .have been kept here ever since I was three years old, because my mamma is a Papist, and she was determined her girl should be one too. A continued journal of my life in the Convene would be tedious, Julia, I shall theresore pass over all those days, which were marked by no incident necessary to my story.
My friendship iot Famry increased every hour: I will here, if I am able, introduce her person to your acquaintance. Louisa interrupted her narrative in this part of it, by giving way to a shower of tears. She begg’d me to excuse her weakness, and thus went on : miss Merton was taller than me by the head, and near two years older; her carriage was majestic, her eyes ^ were blue, and had a Sensibility in
them.
P' ]
\ them, which no pointing can express, yet She occasionally could throw a fire, into them which dazzled one; her £*■ hair was light, and her complexion delicate to an excess; her shape • strait as a pine, but, as she was strong made, and large, if it had not been for the colour of her hair, and delicacy of her skin, she would rather have been thought too masculine for her Sex; then Ihe was ashive to a degree that never Suffered her to sit still two minutes in the same posture. Nothing could fix her attention for any time but myself and her books, both of which were her passions; her temper was as amiable as her figure; she was, however, rather warm, easily moved to anger, and as easily pacify’d shy a good natur’d word. She had an attentive manner of obliging, which captivated the heart; ever ready to Succour and relieve diftress; polite and
infl
• \
[ 200 f
insinuating to all, ^’nd tendcv only to me. We loved one another likd sitters; our souls were congenial, and so were our tastes we both were fond of reading and music;; preferred the books she read in, would play no tunes but those she chose for me, nor ever dance with any partner but her,, She had particular matters, however, with whom I was fuffer’d to
’ 'I
have no conversation, as she took her lefsons from them always alone, she
c
being the only girl in the school who learned Latin and Geography; these studies took up a great deal of her tithe, so that I did mofl of her work for her, and the business of her life was to oblige me.
About a month after, I had been in the Convent, Lady Plumjiead eame one morning to see me, and, after having conversed sometime with the Nuns, she said. Gome, Miss Boothby, ' vol. I.. P you
r 210 ]
you shall, h’if you please, go with me to Paris for a few days; I would not have you quite secluded from the world; therefore will now and then fetch yoit back into it, by which means we shall vary the scene a little, and prevent your growing tired of your retreat. I curt’sy'd my aflfent to this obliging proposal, when, looking at my friend, I perceived a melancholy Spread all over her countenance; upon which the tears came into my eyes. Are you Sorry to leave the Convent for a few days? said her Ladyship: : Madam, I reply’d; but I am grieved to leave miss Merton behind me. O! if that's all, Said Lady Plumfiead, there will be no occasion to. Separate you; if the Lady abbess will consent to your friend's accompanying you, I will promise to take care of her, and she shall return next thurf day with you, I am very unhappy,
answered
[ 211 ]
answered the abbess, in being obliged to refuse your Ladyship anything, but with this polite request I cannot comply, as that young Lady, by the positive orders of her parents, is never to go out of this houle till she returns to them. Fanny flung an eye of indignation at the abbess, and then thanked Lady Plumjlead, in the most gracesul manner, for the intended favour. Well, Said her Ladyship, we must not pretend to break rules; however, the time of your Separation, will be but very short. So, dry your eyes, my Dears, and don’t behave fb like children. She then took me by the hand, and led me to her coach,
, When we arrived at the amb^flador’s hotel, I Sound Lady Jane Carr there, the only child of this amiable couple: She was just come from the Convent of Fontevrault, and was now to accompany me to the Abbaie of C —;
P 2 (you
[ 212 ]
(you will see her here Soon, miss bouton. So I won’t attempt to describe her person to you;) it was, however. So very amiable, and her manners were So lively and good humoured, that I began to fear she would, perhaps, rival me in the affefuons of my Fanny, and I looked on her, for that reason, with Some degree of coldness; she perceived it, and, by the sweetness of her behaviour. Soon made me ashamed of the weakness I had given way to. During the little time I stayed at Paris, we were constantly in a round of company and diversions, *, the midst of which, however, I sigh’d in my heart for the hour which was to restore me to my friend miss Merton. At last it came; Lady Jane accompanied me to the Convent. On our arrival there, I presented her to my Fanny; she received her with great politeness, but me she embraced with transport,
ex[
[ ]
exclaiming. And are you returned, my Louisa! how my heart joys to See you! Thus we went on, our friendship increasing with our years: We could have wished to have Spent more of our time together alone, than was in our power to do, though we Sought every possible opportunity to this ef fedb, but Fanny old Argus effe<stually defeated all our Schemes, by hardly ever Suffering her charge to be a moment out of her sight, and though she ' could not understand what we Said, yet she watch’d our every look and gesture.
aster I had Spent four years in this delightful retreat, my father wrote me, that he, and my mother, wished to See me in England, and would either Send for, or fetch me very shortly. I trembled at the apprehension of being Separated from my friend, and therefore, in my answer to the most indul
P 3 gent
[ 2'4 I
gent of parents, begg’d they would not think of taking me home, at a time when I was making the greatest progress in my studies ♦, entreated, that they would confider how much time ' I had lost whilst I remained in England, urging that I was yet too young to be introduced into the world, and, therefore, could be nowhere so properly placed as where I then was. They kindly granted me more time. Lady Jane Carr and I made frequent excurstons to Paris, but they were generally shortened by my entreaties to her, that we might return to our Convent, and she, good naturedly, always complied with my request.
I must here observe, that it’s a great error in whoever Supposes all Nuns to. be unhappy. I had an opportunity, during the course of six years and upwards, which I spent in a Convent, to convince myself of the contrary: many,
'nay, '
t 215 T
nay, all of them, with only the exception of one or two, were the happiest, as being the contentedest, fet of people I ever Saw; their wants were few, and those were gratisy’d *, the Sacrifice they had made of their liberty, through a motive of piety, was a pleasing thought,, which Sufficiently paid them for that loss. Pride, that Iburce of pleasure and of pain, is, in them, a great instrument towards their felicity; they look upon themselves as a Species of beings Superior to all others, but the Clergy, and them they venerate almost to idolatry; they are not Priejis, ’tis true — hut they are Priejlejfes, — which, in their opinion, is the Second order of human creatures, and consequently they look down on the rest of the world with no small degree of pity and contempt; then they tell you, that they are the chaste spouses of Jesus Chrijl; and nothing can affront them
P 4 more
[ 2i6 ]
rnorethan to be called old maids; they cannot bear the epithet, though, at the same time, it would be thought no less than Sacrilege to doubt of their being immaculate virgins. The in ilitutors of all orders of religious Societies (at lead of women) have prudently foreseen the dangerous consc quences which mufl necefsarily arise from allowing them too much leisure for reflection *, for which reason, their rules are calculated to keep them in perpetual employment; they move by the clock, and are almost as much machines as it; the many, however, certainly are So; those few among them, who are diftinguifh’d by Superior parts, find occupation enough, in their Schemes for rising to the first dignities of the oraer; 'tis incredible what arts they will praflise (and that for years together) in order to attain power; the abbess is not less Surrounded
V
[ 217 ]
rounded by her flatterers than an Eastern Monarch •, and though they are fewer in number, yet are they not in the least inferior to them, either in address, or hypocrisy; and all this is transacted with an air of the most tranquil humility. On the day of an election of a Nun to Some high office in the Convent, not the least agitation .of Spirit appears, either in the countenances or behaviour, of any individual among them; though I myself have known, that, for six months, or more, before the time of election, every Spring has been put in motion, and every art eflfay’d, whether by bribes, promises, entreaties, flattery, or threats, to gain Suffrages for themselves, or favourite candidate; yet all this is done with Such an air of devout resignation, and difintereftedness, that, to look at them, one would suppose their conversation to be only in Heaven, and that they
looked
I 218 y
looked down with a perfect indifference on all worldly events. The few unhappy Nuns are those, who, from family considerations, have been, not forced, for that’s very uncommon, but seduced, into the taking of the veil; what I mean by being Seduced is, by the caresses on one fide of the Nuns, and the Severity, and ill treatment purposely given them by their parents at home, on the other; this is a method which has (I Sear) Sormerly been but too often put in practice, but it is Seldom made use of now, as Superstition loses ground every day in francesew parents, in this enlightened age, think the Sacrifice of their childrens happiness here, an infallible means of procuring their own hereafter. Now should this victim to Superstition, or avarice, happen to have, involuntarily, disposed of her heart, and is induced to comply with the remonstrances
[ 219 ]
strances of her friends to become a ' Nun, from a kind of despair of ever being united to the man stie loves, either from a disparity of fortune, or other weighty considerations, she is indubitably wretched, because, from the moment that she has placed an insuperable bar between her, and her wishes, the obstacles, which she had before apprehended to be insurmountable, diminish; and her tortured imagination represents the accomplishment of them to.have been, if not probable, at least possible, consequently she must repent of the rash step she has taken,, and lament the Severity of her Sat for the rest of her days. I knew one of these unsortunate girls in our Convent, and I may, perhaps, tell you her story, when I am in better Spirits to do it, as she related it herself to me; but I must go on with my own, which I much fear, Julia, I am very
prolix
[ 220 ]
prolix in narrating. I aflur’d her she was not, and she proceeded as follows: I was sitting one afternoon in my own room (not long before I left the Convent) when the very Nun I have just Said was unhappy, enter’d. Saying, miss Boothhy, the Lady abbess sends her compliments to you, and desires the favour of your company to Collation with her; this is a Sort of apology Sora Supper, which the Nuns eat instead of one, on the nights of those days which are appointed by the Church for Sasts, such as the vigils of Some great saint’s day, particularly on that of the Founder of their Order, or the three great Feasts in the year, Cfr. I instantly obey’d the Summons, and followed the Nun into the Lady ab bess’s apartment, where I found the Director of the Convent sitting with her; this confeltor was a Monk of one of the Franciscan Orders, and had
the
[ 221 ]
the management of all the consciences in the house, excepting Lady jans and mine; he was a Qeek, Smooth, sat, ftrong built man, of about forty : He rose on my entrance into the room, and. Seating me next him, began to pay me the most: flattering compliments on my complexion, shape, air, (dc. sac, ci was almost disconcerted by the excess of his praises, which were, however, delivered with a tone of the utmost Sandity, Saying, he admir’d the Supreme Being, in the beauty of his works; and Sure, added he, “None ever came out of “his hands more perfefl: than you are, “Miss Boothhy; '' he then proceeded to lament that so fair a body should contain a soul, which, if not rescued from the Evil One, (observe, my Dear, he was too polite to name the Devil,) would indubitably be condemned to everlasting torments. I saw his drift,
and
[ 222 ]
and therefore answer’d with spirit, that I hoped there was no human being impious enough, to dare to Set bounds to the mercy of his Maker; and was going to retire; when the abbess, in a peremptory tone, bid me sit down again; I obey’d, when he, taking one of my hands, which I hastily drew from him, continued thus: I Should be extremely Sorry to give you any offence, my dear young Lady, but permit me to reason with you a little; and, first, give me leave to ask you a Sew questions : “You believe, “in your mode of faith, in a Heaven “and a Hell, as well as we of the “Romish profestion, don’t you? and, “if So, should you not be very Sorry, “after this life, to go to a place where “your friend miss Merton can never “come ?” This question startled me; and I answer’d with vivacity, “No “place can be a Heaven to me, where
she
[ 223 ]
“llie is not.” “O! very well, said“ “yet you must loth be of the “Same religion, rny Dear, or you can never meet in another world.” piqu’d at the arbitrary manner in which he had condemned myself and friend to an eternal Separation, I replied, Have you been in the cabinet council of the Almighty, Sir, that you thus decide on the dispofition which he has destined for his creatures in a Suture state?? Said, turning to the abbess, and shrugging up his shoulders at the Same time, “This is the
s
“way. Madam, in which they bring “up all their children in England,
“permitting them to reason upon “Subjects which they cannot under,, “instead of teaching them, as “they ought to do, implicit obedi “enceto the ordinances of the church,
“without Suffering them to argue ‘‘ upon topics which are So absolutely
“above
/
[ 224 ]
'- / *
( above the reach of human wlfdom “to expound : Could they once be “thoroughly convinced of this un “doubted truth, viz. that nothing “lessthan inspiration from above, can “enlighten our understandings to the “comprehension of our Sacred mys “teries, they would then learn, that “all this Sort of knowledge is con“ “Solely to god’s Ministers on “earth, the Servants of our Holy “Mother the Church.” But as I never can be brought to believe that great truth. Father, Said I, I would advise you to give yourself no trouble about my conversion, especially as the Lady abbess must remember, that Ihe gave her word of honour to the ambafiadress, that I .never should be
I
talk’d to on that Subject. They both looked displeas’d at me, I thought; So I begg’d leave to retire, which was granted me. This Scene happened after
• -.. J
r 225 J,,
ter ylfd.merton had left the Convent, but I relate it here as a kind of episode, in order to relieve me from the more affecting part of my story, which, i
indeed, my dear Julia, costs me a great V deal of pain to narrate; 1 will theresore, in order to Shorten it, come to the period when I was just turned of stxteen, and rhy friend near eighteen years of age. We were one day Sitting at work, Miss Merton, the old Nun, and myself, when a Sister came to.iis.
Saying, Somebody at the parlour asks to Speak direshly with Madam Conception, a circumstance which I had never observed to have happened before; she looked vastly surpriz’d, crying.
Holy Virgin, who can it be! Is it a man or a woman The Sister replied,
Ihe could riot tell; upon which the
f
old woman advanced to a glass, where,. after having adjusted her guimpe shd veil to the best advantage, she ordered vol. I. Q us
<
[ 226 ]
US to go that instant into the School room, and then, promising to return in a few minutes, she lest us. The moment (he had disappeared, Fanny came to me, and, flinging her arms round my neck, almost stifled me with kisses;; gently reproved her for her violence -, I Sek myself somewhat offended at the manner in which she had expressed the vivacity of her friendship for me, and was hurt and confused at her indelicacy •, she, too, look’d confounded at her own behaviour; we gazed on each other — I don’t know how, Julia ', I cannot describe what I don’t understand; she knelt, and - afk’d my pardon, in a voice so tender and pathetic, that it pierc’d my heart: Her hand, which held mine, trembled; our mutual confusion was incomprehensible to me. I fell into a reverie, from which I perhaps should not so Soon have recovered myself, had not I
perceived
[ 227 ]
perceived the door open, and the old Nun enter the room with terror (I thought) painted in her face. She cried out. My God! Holy Virgin! what have you two girls been doing I Why did you not go into the fchool room as I ordered you? Miss Merlon, after having prefied my hand to her. lips, now rose from rny feet, where she was kneeling when the affrighted Nun came in. What's the matter, mother } Said she: Matter enough, reply’d the old woman, but i’ll have no Such doings for the Suture, i’ll take care of that; you shall not either see or converse with one another any more. sostly, Madam, Said miss Merton, (Setting one of her arms on her fide, and extending the other towards me,)
“Neither yon, nor all the powers on “earth, ffiall ever deprive me of See“ “and Speaking to that lovely girl;
“file is the idol of rny heart, and I
2 “will,
[ 228 ]
will defend her with my life, against the united tyranny of you, and all “your Sisterhood. I will not only “See, and converse with her, when“ “I please, but if any of you “should offer to prevent my doing so, “i’ll murder you, fire the Convent, “and then escape from this prison“ “my treasure in my arms.” The 'Nun was struck dumb with astonifhm.ent at the vehemence with
which these threats were uttered, and
$
instantly lowered her tone; Ihe even begg’d pardon for her vivacity. Miss Merton told her, she must certainly be either mad, or drunk, to put herself into such a passion, because two girls were left together for a moment a
O
lone. I can no way give you a picture of my thoughts during this extraordinary scene; they were a perfefl chaos: Miss mertops figure - and attitude, whilst she was speaking to the Nun,
were,
«
[ 229 ]
were So new to me, that I Scarce knew her; I thought she never had look’d So enchantingly handsome, as she did while thus defending our mutual interests; but then, I thought it was done in a manner rather too rough, and not with that delicacy which I had always observed in her; for she really appeared a perfect Virago. She now came to me, and, taking my hand. Said, with a voice replete with more than Semale sostnefs, “Come, my “Louisa, don’t be frighted' at any “thing that old Fury can Say; no “creature on earth shall ever divide “us, nor vex my angel, while I have’ “one drop of blood left in my veins.’* I begg’d her to be calm; she pressed me to her beating bosom, Saying, Alas! I know not why, Louisa, but all your gentle endeavours to Sooth me only Serve to raise a tempest in my breast, that shakes every fibre in my
0.3 frame.
[ 230 ]
frame.. alarm’d at what fire Said, as well as at the perturbation of Spirits I Saw her in, I trembled for her precious health, and, reseating myself, I placed her head upon my bosom;; found her forehead burn, and her heart beat violently, 1 therefore with tears entreated her to go to bed. She reply’d, “Mofl willingly my soul, if you’ll go “with me.” “Alas! answered I, that “I would with the greatest pleasure“ “Mother Conception will never “suffer it, I fear; I will sit up in the “room with you all night, if fire will “give me leave.” O, they will never let us be together again, said she, with a deep sigh; I cannot conceive what they mean by all their care to keep you and I asunder; can you guess, Louisa?? the sweet girl, looking full in my face. I blufh’d, (I knew not why, } and answered, indeed I do not. Here the Abbess came to us; she
had
\
[ 231 ]
had been fetch’d (I suppose) by our Argus. On looking at miss Merton, she declared her to be in a high fever, and theresore had her conveyed to her own apartment, and ordered me into the class immediately, notwithstanding our earnest Solicitations not to be Separated, at least for that night. It is. Ladies, Said she, in a resoiute tone, you know, the rule of this Convent, that no two girls shall steep together. So, miss Boothhy, go where I bid you. I obeyed, bathed in tears at being obliged to quit my Sick friend; my anxiety for her health banished steep from my eyes. As Soon as I heard the bell ring for Matins, I called to the Nun, who lay’d near me, and ash’d her how miss Merton did I She told me, she had pass’d but a very restless night, and was but very indifferent this morning. As Soon as I heard all the Nuns were gone to
CT church.
E .232 ]
church, I got up, and stole to the chamber door of rhy friend, when tapping softly at it. Mother Conception opened it; then, in a low voice, I inquired after the health of my Fanny? She heard me, and called out, Come in my Louisa, my soul, come in, they shall not hinder you; so saying, (fearing, I fuppole, that the old woman would have sent me back again,) she •started up in her bed, and was going to jump out of it; when, in an agony,, the Nun shriek’d out. My God! Holy Trinity! keep in bed, and she shall come to you. I approached the bed, and my friend got into it again; our guard stepped before me, and endeavoured to keep us asunder, by placing herself between us, but in vain; for missnfer/i?», with uncommon strength, push’d her from her Seat, and drew me to it with Such violence, that I had almost fallen upon it: I recovered
myself,
• ' ^ I
/ '
[ m ]
myself, however, and relisted all the efforts she made to pull me on to the bed; I Seated myself by her fide, penetrated with grief, to find her fever So high, (as I supposed her light headed by her behaviour,) I therefore judged,, '
that my presence might be prejudicial to her health at that time; so, killing her hands and cheeks, I left her, in Spite of her ardent entreaties to the contrary. She alfured me that she had no fever, and was much better. I did not believe it, and consequently Sek the deepest affliction for her illness,
All that day, and the Sollowing one, she kept her room, during which time I was absolutely Sorbid visiting of her; on the third she appear’d in School.
I thought she did not. look as if she had been very ill, as her cheeks flush’d with health. Our meeting was tender, but referv’d, as I had now got a spy over my actions, as .well..as.my friend.
The
/
[ 234 ]
The melancholy young Nun was fix’d upon, by the Abbess, as a proper per ibn to accompany, and watch me, as affid’joufly as old Mother Conception did Fanny: This gave me no concern, as I wifh’d to hide none of my adions; besides, I had. a partiality for the per ibn whom they bad appointed to be my constant Companion, not to Say more. Yet 1 could not conceive the meaning of all these (in my opinion) absurd precautions; at last I fancy’d I had Sound ic out, and that the Nuns took all this pains to keep us asunder as much as possible, lest I should, by persuafion, convert her to rny own way of thinking on the point of religion; but then, I ash’d myself, if that is the case, why do they suffer us, without the least opposition, to converse together in company, as long; and as Srequently as we please, in a language of which they don’t understand
[ 235 ]
stand one word, and at the Same time appear So prodigiously alarm’d, if we happen to be left one Single instant alone together? In short, the more I endeavor’d to unravel this mystery, the more perplex’d and entangled I found my ideas of it were. The Sprightly Lady Jane used to laugh by the hour upon the Subject, and insist that all the Nuns were out of their Senses, to make Such a fufs about nothing. I still Saw my friend every day, but we were generally placed at a distance from each other. I thought she look’d dejected, and Srequently observed a tear standing in her eye, whilst she gaz’d on me. I asked her. Sometimes, cross the room, why she was So melancholy? She only answer’d by a sigh, and a shake of her head. I Soon caught the infection; when, one day, (about a Sortnight after the ridiculous Scene which had pasted between
us
\
[ 236 3
■ US and the old Nun, as we were coming out of church, she brush’d by me, and slyly slipped a note into my hand. I took the first opportunity I could find of retiring to my chamber, in order to read it; it contained these words: ‘‘ My ever dear Louisa, how shall I be “able to bring my pen to tell you,
:. “what my lips (though opened twenty
times for that purpose) have refus’d “to utter? Yet, you must know it, — these— — — but I will not call “them by the name they so justly deserve, have'wrote to my father and “mother, to complain of my beha “vioor, and to request that they “V ouid (wkh all possible expedition)
■ “fetch me home: This Mother Con“ “told me of sometime ago; and this morning the Lady Abbess
** me, that, she believed. Sir
\ _
** Francis, and Lady Merton, would be ‘‘ at Paris in a day or two; when, O,
y rny
[ m ]
T nay amiable girl I I fnall, undoubc “edly be torn from the society of her, “for whose Sake alone I live. What “time my Sather and mother will day at Pans I cannot learn, but as long “as they continue in this neighbour“ “they shall not deprive me of “the pleasure of feeing you every day; “in the meanwhile write to your “friends, my Love, to Send for you “home; we shall meet again, I trust:, “incur own country. O, my Louisa“ “words can express the feelings of “my heart on this dreadful event; how “should they? when even I myself“ “comprehend them. I know ^ “but this, that you are dearer than “life and light to your ever faithful, “but truly unhappy friend, Francis “mertonp
You will easily imagine, Julia, how much I was affected on reading these lines; I could now account for that
Sorrow,
[ 238 }
sorrow, and dejeshion, which I had, for sometime past, observed to have spread their baneful influence over the fine features of my friend; I had most: severely sympathised with her, though perfectly ignorant of the cause; but now, that I knew it, I became half diflrafted at the thought of her being taken from me, and abandoned myself to the most immoderate grief: 1 could nor steep, and would not eat, so that in a few days I look’d like the pi6ture of
»
death, and had hardly strength to crawl about the house. Fanny was incapable of comforting me; fly wanted it herself; besides, her endeavours to fboth my sorrows were as so many daggers to my heart, as they (hewed me, the more forcibly, the excess of that loss, which I was on the verge of fufiaining. Lady Jane did, and said, everything in her power, in order to alleviate our afflictions; nay, the very
Nuns
[ 239 ] '
Nuns seem’d moved at the tenderness of our friendship for each other; and even the inexorable moiktrconception, when the fatal moment of our separation arrived, suffered us to embrace one another: We did fb, when I fainted in my fanny’s arms. I did not see my Lady Merton, because I lost my senses, on being told she was coming up flairs: On my recovery from the swoon, my eyes sought my lovely friend in vain; Lady Jane insormed me, that whilst Fanny and I were in that tender Situation, which had drawn tears from all present. Lady Merton came into the room, and having forced her daughter to commit me to the care of the Nuns *, she obliged her to go along with her, which Fanny did, more dead than alive, supported by her mother and the Lady Abbess, herself being unable to stand; her Ladyship added, that Lady Merton had shed a
'tear
/ '
[ 240 ]
i
tear over me, kissing my cheek, saying, I was ‘a lovely girl, 'twas pity I ' should be so stubborn an Heretic; then promising her daughter that she should see me again in a few days, fly took leave of the Convent. To this account of Lady Jhnfs I listen’d with a stupid kind of attention; my senses were all So absorb’d by the greatness of the loss which I had fb recently Sustained, that I could hardly form any distindl idea of the nature of it: I could not bring myself to believe, that my dearest: friend was not still under the same roof with me, and yet, I was as truly miserable as if I had had the clearest: conviction of it; nay, I continued with my eyes riveted to the door of the room, as if I really '' expeded to See her enter at it every minute: At last, they put me to bed, and Lady Jane Sat up with me. I now lost ail relish for life; every object,,

\
[ 24« ]
and every place, renewed my sorrow or rather increased it, as they represented to my imagination the image of my abfont friend; I wept inceflfantly, and every moment of my existence was a burden to me: All possible means were tried by the whole community to divert my thoughts, and distipate that melancholy by which I was devoured; but in vain; after waiting above a week, and hearing nothing either of, or from Miss Merton, I wrote to my father, begging he would Send, for me home, alleging, as a reason for making this request, the destre I had to see my parents: A removal from the place where I had been so happy, and was now so miserable, became an ardent wisti of my heart. Lady Plumfiead came to See ' me Soon aster my Fanny was gone; finding me So dejedled, she press’d me to return to Paris with her, but I was
vol, I. R ashamed
/
[ 242 ]
afliam’d of the excess of my sorrow, and wished to conceal it as much as
^ s
possible; besides, my friend had promis’d to come and see me at the Convent, and I was determined not to leave it till I was acquainted with her situation, and if I found she was at Paris, I would with pleasure go to it, if not, I preferr’d staying where I was: ’ I therefore told her Ladyship, that I was far from being well, and for that reason begg’d she would excuse me - from having the honour of accompany ing her that day, but that I would, with her permission, write her a line when I found myself better, and then should wait her commands. She very politely conform’d to my desires, and charg’d her daughter to take particular care of me; she was, indeed, now my only comsort, as a fortnight had elapsed since fanny’s departure, and I had yet heard nothing from her. It was
during
[ 243 ]
during this interval of time, that I had the scene I mentioned, with the fat Friar. At last a letter was brought me, which, by the Superscription, I knew to be from my friend; I was very near fainting at the sight of it, and it was Some time before I could bring my spirits to a degree of calmness sufficient to render me capable of perusing it; it contain’d the following words, (for I never can forget them.)
“My dear Louisa,
“I HAVE been a prisoner ever “since the day on which we were so “barbarously torn from each other. “Sir Francis and Lady Merton have “forbid me feeing of you, or rather, “the latter has, for my father does “not seem so averse to it as llie: I “shall, however, beg leave to difo “bey them in this article, as I purpose being at the parlour of the
R 2 “Conc
244 1
Convent next Thursday afternoon, ’ “whilst the Nuns are at Vespers if “any of them tell you, at that time, “that a young Gentleman from the “Ambafladrefs asks to speak with “you at the grate, make no further “inquiries, but run down stairs di
recstly, to, your's eternally,
“Francis Merton.”
t
In the postscript he wrote, “O, “my Louisa, my charming girl, what “wonders I have to tell you.”
This letter, when I had read it, appear’d extremely extraordinary: Why did She propose feeing me at the grate, rather than enter into the interior of the Convent? Who was. the young Gentleman that was to ask for me? And what were the wonders which he had to relate to me } In this state of perplexity I remain’d till the day came, when, at the appointed hour, I
was
[ 245 ]
/
was inform’d, that a young Gentleman, from the countess of Plumjlead, defir’d to Speak to me in the parlour;
I rather flew than ran to See him; when, O, Julia! judge, if you can, of my Surprise, on perceiving my friend Fanny, metamorphos’d into a man. I ftar’d at her with amazement, and thought that She look’d handsomer in that dress than anything human had ever done before her. She caught my hand through the grate, and, pressing it with ardour to her lips, express’d her transports at Seeing me again. I wept aloud for joy. When our ecstasies, occafion’d by the sight of each other,
were a little Subfided, I ventur’d to
'
aflc her why she was thus disguised? I am not disguis’d, my angel. Said she, I was indeed So while in the Convent, but now I wear my proper habit: Ah! my dear girl, continu’d she, (looking tenderly at me,) why did we not ber
3 lieve
[ 246 ]
lieve our hearts? They would easily have explain’d a myftei y, which, I am persuaded, Srequently puzzled us both in trying to unravel, and which our extreme innocence hid from our knowledge : Do you understand me, Louisa? Said she. Indeed I do not, I reply’d, trembling from head to Soot, and calling my eyes down to the ground; then I will relate what has happen’d to rne. Since I was compelled to leave the idol of my Soul, the narration of which will Sufficiently explain my meaning. “When I got into the “coach with my mother, after having embraced me tenderly, she Said, “Ihe had a Secret to impart which “would Surprise me prodigiously, and “which, Ihe hop’d, I would pardon “her having concealed So long from ‘‘ me, when I was acquainted with her C “important reasons for So doing. ‘‘ Know then, my dear, that when
y your
[ 247 ]
“your father and I married, it was “agreed by our friends on both Tides, “and stipulated in the marriage arti“ “that as he was a Protestant“ “children, if boys, should be “brought up in Ms faith; if girls, in “mine. Some months after we were “united, I found myself with child, “and ardently wished it might be of “my own sex, as I dreaded the bring“ “a child into the world, whose“ “could not be saved out of the “pale of our Holy Church, and “whomj I knew, was deftin'd to be “bred up in the dangerous heresy of “his father: These melancholy re“ “I frequently communicated “to my mother, who join’d her la“ “to mine on this interest“ “subject, and bewail’d the cruel “fate of this unborn infant, if it “should unhappily prove a male, f One day as I was particularly made
R 4 ‘‘ wretched
/
t 248 ]
“wretched by my apprehensions, left “I should have a fon, my mother “said, she thought we had befl con“ “our conseflbrs upon the case;
“adding, they are pious and wise men,
“and will probably find out Some “method of tranquillizing your trou“ “conscience; accordingly they “were Sent for; when, aster hav“ “heard the state of the case,
“they both agreed, that it was our “duties to rescue the poor child’s Soul “from perdition, let it be of what sex“ “would, since 1 had no right to dis “pose of it, or, in other words, to “condemn it to eternal torments, be,, its father was a Heretic. I showed them the impofiibility there was of my opposing my husband on “this head, as I had, previous to my “marriage, given my honour not to “interfere in the education of rpy boys. In answer to this they urg’d, >
“that
«
[ 249 ]
“that it would be very easy to deceive “Sir Francis as to the Sex of the child,
X
“in cafe it should prove a male; for “which purpose they undertook to “procure me a midwise, and nurse, “both of approv’d secresy; the man“ “was to order the child. Soon “after it was born, into the country, “with its nurse;; in order that it “should be taken the more care of, “my mother was to request:, that they “might both be sept to her house“ “they advised me to let the child“ “pretending, that the grandmo “there could not bear to part with her, “till it was three or four years of age, “when I might complain that my mo“ “excess of fondness for the child
I
“would ruin it, for which reason it “should be sent abroad to a Convent “for its education; where, said they, “the boy will probably imbibe those y principles of the true religion, which
‘‘ no
[ 250 ] *.
“no time, argument, or persuafion;
V will ever be able to eradicate; and “that great work' once finished, the “real Sex of the child may be disco“ “to its father, and proper proofs “brought of his identity; these, and “many more precautions, were made “use of, effeshually to deceive Sir “Francis, which it would be useless “for you to know; let it Suffice, then,
“that at the nine months end I was “deliver’d of a Son, which was you,
^ “my Dear.” — Here (he paus’d, and
look’d me steadfastly in the face; I was dumb with aftoniffiment at what I heard. She thus proceeded : “Your “father was told he had a daughter;
“he never doubted the fade; you was “Sent to your grandmother’s with “your nurse, at the end of the month,
“Sor the benefit of the air, where you “stayed, on various pretences, till you f ‘ was three years of age: Sir Francis
“seem’d
f. ■ W
[ 251 ]
“seem’d to be too much disappointed “at not having a boy, to trouble his “head much about you; however, he “Srequently went to See you; when “one day I begg’d him to observe, “what a Spoilt child you was : ” He. Said, “that’s your affair, my Dear; “you know it was stipulated in our “marriage articles, tstat the whole “care and direshion of the girls we “might have, should lie upon you.” “When you was turn’d three years old, “I propos’d to your father the Send“ “you to a Conventhe reply’d, coldly, “As you please, Madam,
• “you are the mistress over your girl, “and I shall not interpose in her edu “cation.” You was, therefore, at that “period of time, convey’d here, my “Dear, by your grandmother and my“ “since which, you know, your “father and I have made you frequent “visits. however, now Some
“years
[ 252 ]
“years since we have Seen you, which “has proceeded from the desire I have “had, for Some time past, of takingyou “from hence, and declaring to your ' “father the whole plot, together with
“the motives which had induced me “to deceive him; but the Sudden “death of my mother made me defer “my Scheme for Some time longer, as “I dreaded the discovery, now I had “lost her, who was to have Supported “me against my hufband’s resentment, “wheh he should know how he had “been impos’d upon: Thus searsul, I “put off the evil day as long as I could, “when the accounts I received from “the Nuns of your passion for Miss“ “oblig’d me to take you. “home, as I Sound nature was grown “too strong in you, to be any longer “restrain’d : And, indeed, continu’d “she, I look upon it almost as a mi racle, that you have been kept ig
‘‘ norant
[ 253 ]
“norant of your Sex So long. What “care and attention must these good “Nuns have had to prevent your dis “covering what you really were, for fb “many years? When I first: proipos’d “the deception to them, they look’d “upon the accomplifhrnent of my “Scheme as impradicable, especially “in a house So Sull of women; but, in “the end, their zeal for religion, to“ “with a large Sum of money, “and an exorbitant pension, prevail’d “Over their Scruples, and they under“ “this arduous taste, and have, by “their unwearied assiduities to keep “the Secret from you, answered all my “wishes; as I doubt not, my dear Son, “but that all arguments will prove “vain, which should be made use of “in order to prevail on you to re“ “that faith, which you have “been brought up in, and out of “which you are, I hope, perfectly“
“
1.
. [ 254 ]
“convinc’d there is no salvation. I “had you taught Latin, because, as a “man, I knevv you could not do “without it, and in which, I am “pleas’d to hear yoti have made a “great proficiency, you must: now “learn to ride, fence, sac. which ' “manly exercises will Soon, I hope,
“make you Sorget your petticoats.” Here she ceas’d Speaking; 1 was lost in thought during this very extraordinary narration, and look’d on my mother with Some degree of anger, at having thus deceiv’d my Sather, and myself; and yet I could hardly believe V hatfhe told me: I therefore sat filent till we arriv’d at our hotel, when my mother, hurrying me upstairs into her dreffing room, bid me sit there till she came again. 1 heard my father’s voice at the door; ’ she led him in; he accosted me with a tender, good humour’d smile,
but without any striking marks of parental
[ 255 ]
rental joy in his countenance *, my mother then, taking him by the hand, led him into the next room, Saying, Ihe had Something particular to communicate to him : I obferv’d her to be much agitated as Ihe Spoke these words. When I was left alone, I was almost petrified with amiazement at all I had heard. When my Sather came up to embrace me, I knew not whether I ought to have made a bow, or a curtsy, to him, which difficulty flung me into the mofl awkward Situation imaginable. When I thought of you, my Angel, I was almost wild with delight at the knowledge that I was not of the Same Sex as yourself, *, head grew giddy with the enchanting idea, that we might be united in the bands of matrimony, as well as those of friendship, and consequently spend our lives together. Full of these, and many, other the most pleasing ideas, I re
•
[ 256 ]
maine alone for near two hours, when my father burst: into the room, and, with his eyes streaming with tears, clasp'd me to his breast, crying out, with a Saultring voice. My Son! my dear, dear, much injur’d boy! So Saying, he Sunk upon a chair, almost overcome by parental tenderness. He Soon recovered himself, when holding my hand, which he continually press’d in his, he enquir’d minutely into every circumstance of my life, whilst I was in the Convent. Tonne, my Louisa, who was, and are, my existence, was all my theme; the story of my love was the history of my life. My father fmil’d at the raptures with which I mention’d you, and exclaim’d, O Nature, Nature! but my Dear, said he, you are too young yet to think of matrimony, and ' this love affair will, I fear, engross too much of that attention which ought to be apply’d to your improvement.
Poor
4
[ 257 ]
Poor boy, continued he, you have' much to learn, and more to unlearn, and that in a very short time, too, for you are now near eighteen, an age when you ought to have comrnenc’d man instead of Scholar j I therefore entreat, my dear Son, that you will give your utmost application to the attainment of those accomplishments, which are absolutely necessary in a young Gentleman of your rank and fortune; and to this effe<st, you must forget your miftress, Frank, at least for Some years. That I can never do,
I replied. Well, then, Said my father, if you can’t forget, I must enlist osh your not feeing her, for fear the sight of her should divert you from the pursuit of your studies. To this last injunfuon I made no answer, because 1 could not assent to it. The next day I was equipped as you now see me, Louisa, and commenced man j nothing vol, I. S in
[ 258 ]
♦
in nature could be so awkward as I then was, nay, and still am, in this dress; I hope, however, that time will make it more easy to me. I have tried every possible means of coming hither, but ineffeistually till today, and I was too closely watched to be able to write. “And now, my amia“ “mistress, as well as friend, (Said the Sweet youth,) “will you not love “me as well as you did when you “was ignorant of my Sex I Yes, I “know you will — you must— —
s
“heart is not altered by the change, “why then Should that of my beloved “louifa’s ?''Covered with consufion at all the wonders I had heard, I, blushing, answer'd, It is not in my power, Mr. Merton, to cease loving you, you must therefore ever be dear to the heart of your wretched Louisa. Why wretched! repeated he; that can never be. Since you must:, you shall be mine.
My
t 259 J
My father's fondness can refuse me nothing, and my mother has, by the unravelling of her plot, entirely lost his confidence, and (I really fear) his esteem also; So that her opposition to our happiness will be of little or no impediment to it. The rest of our conversation was like that of all lovers, Julia, not worth repeating; the evening parted us, he promised to See me frequently, we plighted our mutual vows of love and constancy, and then relushandy bid each other adieu.
About this time I received a letter from my Sather, in which he tells me, that my brother George would Soon arrive at Paris, from Italy, and that he would accompany me to England.
Mr. Merton now made me Srequent visits, but, being apprehensive of a discovery, he dismounted at some distance from the Convent, ordering his servant to walk the horses about, till
S 2 his
[ 26o 3
his return, out of the great road, lest any of his father’s acquaintance should chance to pass that way, and guess at his errand. I must beg you to remark, juta, that all the Nuns (excepting the abbess, and two others, who were in the plot,) were as totally ignorant of Mr. Merton's Sex as I had been *, therefore, the great alteration which change of dress had made in him, joined to their having no suspicion of the thing, rendered him totally unknown to those Nuns who spoke to him at the Tour; they therefore concluded, I believe, that he was a suitor to me, under the protection of Lady Plumfiead, and, consequently, with the perfe6b approbation of my friends; in order to confirm which opinion. Lady Jane (who was let into the secret) declar’d that he was a near relation of her’s, and often accompanied me into the parlour when Mr. Merton was
there.
[ 26i ]
there. At last my brother arrived at Paris, and soon after came to the Convent : He then told me, that he should not stay much longer in France, but as he could not fix the time, he would take care and let me know some days before, that I might pack up my things, and prepare for my journey to England. He then ashed to see ma deinoifelle La Fare, who was a pen fioner in the house, and a lifter, he Said, of an acquaintance of his, with whom he had contra6ted a friendship in Italy, This girl was an envious, ill tempered creature, and much diflik’d by all the young Ladies; but her mind was by no means portrayed in her face j on the contrary, she look’d like the picsture of candour and good temper On her entrance into the parlour, my brother told me I might retire, as he had Something particular to Say to wissilafare^ which concern’d her family: I instantly
S 3 quitted
V
[ 262 ]
quitted the room •, the girl staid with my brother upwards of an hour *, I paid no attention to her on her return from thence •, as I had never liked her,
I avoided having any conversation, with her as much as possible.
I now grew very uneasy at the thoughts of leavingwhilst; my Lover was still in it, and not likely, I thought, to quit it Soon : However, I Saw him osten, and our meetings were ever accompanied by the Same transporting delight on the sight of each other;. when one evening, rr\y Julia, how (hall I find strength to narrate this part of my history I after having spent an hour with Mr. Merton in the parlour, it growing late, he took his leave, after renewing his vows of eternal fidelity and love, promising soon to follow me to England. The dread I had of going there made my heart fink with sorrow. After bidding him adieu, I
called
I
[ 263 ]
called him back again, though I had nothing to Say, but that, as I knew not the time of my brother's departure, it might be Sudden, and perhaps I might never See my dear Merton more. He kindly chid my Sears, afiuring me, that I should See him the very next day, and took his leave. He left me reftless and unhappy \ I wept bitterly, and, lest any one should perceive I did So, I went immediately into Lady Jane's room, where she and I Sat talking on the Subject till near nine o'clock: The Nuns had been long in bed, and the Pensioners all (except ourselves) were So too, when, all^of a Sudden, Lady Jane and I were alarmed by a ringing at the great gate, a thing which had, probably, never happened before, at So late an hour, since the building of the Convent; we both started from our Seats at once, crying. Good God! the house is on
S 4 fire;
I
[ 264 ]
fire; when, in a moment, we heard the old portress come hobbling down stairs, accompanied by three or four other Nuns *, they opened the gates, when in drove Lady plumfiead.s coach. One of the Nuns, almost out of breath, with haste and Sear, cry’d. Ladies, down stairs this minute, you are wanted : We flew into the courtyard, where, meeting Lady Plumfiead, she Said, in a tremulous tone of voice, “Get into the coach instantly, ehil dren.” We obeyed, and it drove away Surioufly. We none of us Spoke for Some Seconds, when Lady Jane interrupted the silene, by Saying, Pray, mamma, why have you Setched us at this unusual hour to Pans? Alas, my dear Jenny,, replied her Ladyship, bathed in tears, you will know the cause too Soon; Mr. George Boothby — how shall I tell it you! Said she;; Louisa, you must know it, (looking at
me,)
[ 265 ]
me,) has kill’d a Gentleman, for which action he must immediately fly this kingdom *, Justice is in pursuit of him; he is at present Secure in my house, as being the Ambassador's: But my Lord cannot proteist him long ♦, he has, however, infilled on Seeing you, Louisa, before he goes off, and this is the reason why 1 fetch’d you, my dear girls, at an hour So endue. Terrified to death at what I heard, I alk'd, if her Ladyship knew the person whom my brother had killed? She answer'd, No; but in a manner which assured me that she did not Speak the truth. We Soon arrived at the ambaflador’s hotel, when I was oblig’d to be lifted out of the coach; 1 had, indeed, almost been
t,
struck senseless with terror, ever since I heard that fatal No, which shad confirmed my Suspicions that Merton was the Gentleman whom George shad
slain
\
[ ]
slain. I was immediately led into a large diningroom, at the farther end of which sat my brother, in a pensive posture, leaning his. head upon his hand : As soon as I approached him. Wretched, imprudent girl, cry’d he, looking sternly at me, to what diftress have you brought your brother, by your indiscretion. How long he continued to upbraid me I know not, I heard no more; my senses were now departed, and lest my tortur’d heart Some short interval of ease. Lady Plumjieadl and her daughter, (cruelly kind) forced me to life and misery again, which George perceiving, went on thus: “Next week, Miss, you “shall go with a Lady of my ac“ “to England, and I charge you, as you value your peace and “honour, not to mention one word of this affair to our parents; let it be
“buried
%
[ 26? 1
** buried in silence, there at leaf!:,
“though it’s impossible it should be “soon this fide of the water: Here “your reputation is irretrievably lolf,
“by the irregularity of your con.. ” So Saying, he srown’d on me, and then thank’d his noble friends for their goodness and civility to himself and his Sister •, after which he left the hotel by a private door, and got into a poft chaife, which was waiting for him in a bye street. My Lord Plumjlead sent proper people to escort him, till he was out of danger of being taken on his road to Holland. Lady Plumjlead now told me, that George had been informed, by Mademoiselle La Fare, that I carried on an intrigue with a young Sellow, who made me Srequent visits, *, that file did not know his name, but Supposed him to be Somebody
who
[ 268 ]
who was much my inferior, as he was alham’d to make himself known, (she imagined,) by his always contriving to ask for me while the Nuns were in the church saying Vespers, This information fired my brother, and he Set Ipies to watch our motions, and to give him notice as Soon as the young man arrived at the Convent. But being himself one day coming to visit me, he Saw two horses at Some distance from the house, led by a Servant backwards and forwards, as if they were in waiting. My brother asked the fellow who they belonged to The man answer'd, Surlily. To my mafler. And who's your niafter, rascal? Said George. That 1 won't tell you, replied the Sellow: Upon which my brother determin’d to See their owner; for which purpose he waited to See who would
come
£ 2«9 ]
come out of the Convent, and soon saw Mr. Merton advance towards his horses; he let him come near, and then, in a peremptory tone, demanded his name, and his bufinels in that Nunriery? Mr. Merton, who did not know my brother, and not choosing to discover his name, answer'd him in his own style: In short, high words arose, they drew,. Mr. Merton was run through the body, and left dead upon the Spot, — < Here, my dear Lucy, the lovely, aflli(sted Louisa finished her story, and with it (I really thought) her lise, for, on pronouncing the last words, she fell (apparently) dead into my arms, I called out for help, we lay’d her lifeless body on the bed, and I was almost distracted with re morse, and Sorrow, at having (through an ill plac’d curiosity) reduced her
to
>
i 270 ]
to this condition. I sat up with her all night: From the time she recover’d her senses she wept incessantly; I joined, most heartily, my tears to her’s. My God! how I pity this unhappy girl! and how I dread the arrival of Lady Jane Carr I the sight of whom will, I fear, be too much for her weak frame to bear: Teach me, my friend, how to comfort, as well as to support the finking spirits of this ' sweet mourner. Adieu; my eyes are out with crying, as well as with transcribing this long story, which I fet down upon straps of paper, at the different periods as she narrated it, and have now copied fair for your perusal.
Farnahy Ahhey. Yours faithfully,
Julia Bolton.
P, S. You
f
[ 271 1
P. S, You will receive this packet, probably, as Soon as my last letter, as Jones tells me he goes post. Once more adieu, my ever dear Lady Lucy.
\
- •
’ *
* t
\
0
EM of VOL. I.
\
, I
\
* '
V ’ • *
'
, V
■ .f • ' • '
{ *
f
f ‘ ', d
■ t \ ■
'• ^. • I
t '■■■ * • ' *'
',. r.; • • •■
> ’ ' ‘ T; '
• ■ •• ■*' -. * * -
■.■/•■• /
'. '. I
4.
. I
«
• ' ♦ **. ^ • * '
\.f’'
• - ■ f •.
• * V
• > ' «
\. *
« *
'I
- ^ ‘
'' ' '
i..,... ■ • ',
•, V J Z'
f. '. ■
• ■■ ■ ■ ■'• • • ■'
"0 •,. •. ' *
. ' t
* * * ' ' .i ' ' ‘ " C
’ • s
f ' %.
f ^
*
» *
%
«
. «
/
vt ■ \: ' '-' -^’ -. C ■•
cl'cc* ' ■'■ ^ ^ ^ *
^. ' -. ' ' .■■/. ■■ i jnsv ¥ ’ ^''’vvv^
• - ' i
II
idfl.ec '(m.en^4^l
?it ■ ', •..,
sek^f' -- .^0^ - - ■,
0\1 AT. : - ■ ■, ' ■'” ■■ '
ix “7 fvi ■ ■ -- "'
*•" sss^^uw^^^^sf^es^^sbebebi^^s^r *• " •»*.'■*' V,, ‘- -• V r ^ ^
'' ■-; t' ' ' % ■ A' 'a'fb ^ X -- -- •■' *
• ’ e: c'r^fri'^ ^' rr. '..' : L -- AA:. li c vc?", '; Ct
■ '■ ■ > ' '^ ^ ‘ ^ -- * : » -.;
-"■ ' ■, ■■ .^. ■-■:; '; 'V' '■' ■'
** i .i - ■, .-
f ' ■■■■'■ ...', L sf’^r, i,; —. /. ■. - ■ '.riaa.d '.A
''■ ■ -, ■ ‘ ■•■.. : c^ ' r : - 5.5'^ ■ V
■.. ^ ’ T' ... ' s rte; : \ ri, ^.a'h"^fri: ri.
'^ ^ ^ T" ■ ■ C - '.^
■ '- ■,, ' *■ ' ' v^ v'
.'•■ ■ .■■. ^ *■ ■ • •,,. .’- S: .■V4 ^ '■
v l • J.. ^ ■ ' ' A AAA' - ■• • •-• ■. '.'CV
• .'ihv'v ‘.; V ^ '-■
■ -■ * ' ■ -• L- -- '. -■
'' *' '■• '"'■ ' ■ * •'' * Ad ■ ■'aafd'fd'fr, — ' '
: ' T' — ■. ~^ \..............; |0^f ^
T. ■ /9 ' _ ■ • %-■ r:., :;;.
'’■ ‘. ■ ' :, ^. VA
t^^^^bll^b9i^^^^^^^iprkfl^bk^^^bi^ik'' V */ - n ^
IHB^^ mjmnl 9mik^7ijbmbifiilg.; h' ' ■hhhs^^h^^i' fllb''^ «. ‘ ^ik ijmil
''r rt^nlh^^^l''''' ^"1
; ®u|p®n Lshi^^wvy.
-'*' ■ V i'. ■»- 'd»f cv * ~ '#^%c&^kvv^; ', ^h^humhhbi
ir' ' .'h''^'lvv •\' .^'"a >^^>msv>v
. .^' i^t^^inhlp ', o - T" N? Tv; ifc^ -’^¥ y 'fihbimiioml
lmiu»^bimi^^^^^^^^m^b^mmhbuilil|fbmii>m^bbb^^^^mqr i fi^bt •^^itriwrbhf ffbli^l^ * i
lmikiglmlimb^^^b^i!lm^wm^^ ^g^ * v n 'bm^^hbhi
^blmhlillilb I ....................., ' * II .... I ii'imlylw^m
'-'- rirrivw'.
- 't^lwhrt^r' ihwffin 'T''• ii- -- -- -■-
'fnv
• \
V ^
\ ' ^
■ ‘.'rv
- ■■ ■
... r ••■ I ‘ t
W.' .'
V
* v
i4
. -• sff
K... • "
\ A. A ■■'
\. '■ '
'V
r' • -
milfllfflar4alb^^b^wb^^mbnb||||mt|^^ ‘4L^
yal2ljl^^^^h|h|gjfcg||^hu
T
y ^ ■ A '
lii '?Y, t i i ‘i ^
ih^^h a^^^ssipf^
^psrp4f»| /iya'af^a/a(o\ I
bmbisblui]^ il’ ftv. rn
iw^^p^^bsslliiib?/ I CI %rii i (iz 1
^ C -;

. > ■•' ?■ ' T ‘.; < -- -- -- -- -
THE
GODFREY F. SINGER. ^nfi MEMORIAL
^^HIH PRESENTED BY
m. AND MRS. JACOB SINGER
'^tfetrrrn^"
rsllf*^
^^mv^llpsss ^ir^' ^w^^mjj^wm
^^ -- ?■ >4' ^knk^h«h^bibr'tt '■ 'VC

I
4
V
I
^ * ’ •.. ■>■ > .=■.■: ■/: VC '■ " : ^
‘ ' ' - ^ .■■v^cn'a ^' V.; ■> V
'- C: vl's lic ■ KVA
. ■ ' • .h h .: S"
. ^ ^ ' ■ ■ •' its: : m
■' i •
'' ' " ^ '
’• ■'.. ’ - ■ i ■' rit^ rfl *- ■-
• ' • ■. '.. L •■ • T 't * -- V v.
. •, •, ■ ■ • ■ -- -. ■
■ ■-. i -- -■ ■■ ■ ' ..' ",, ■ ■ it'vt^ ■ ■ ■■ ' ■-"
- V ■»>'-.• * '■*■ ■' ~ ■■■
-• ■ ' ■ ■ " :
- ■ : ■ A' ■ ^ -. • fa ^ amdmvlat ^
'. ■ ' _ ^
-' ■ ■■■; - - ir - - tn
i A •; V A
: ■ A. -^ ’ ■; ■■, -■, ^ ■: " h C -- '-.: /^ '■ T"
•" • : - - V - :
-■ •.- .-' -. / CV c^'r'. ■ ■'
C. -. '. -..; ^-, yc c'*»'' V > ■'' "• ” ■ •'
; ■• • ■ ^ J[.. xi -'- '■ -- .".- ■, .' • ' ■, -'. ' -.,. ’ ^>
f'd"‘. " ■.: -■-■■ .: •
•t r • ' ♦
■•• ''■ ' ' ' ^ •. • •
■■. - ■ '■' ' ' ^' .' ' i.
'" ■ S'' '' ' '•. ■■
»» ’ ' - s S.... --; ■ '• " ■ •'■
P tch. -; ' : ‘ L. - ‘ ^ V - '
V h tec pvhvf ^vd.tk., V ' '
I ^ ^ ^
ANECDOTES
O F A,.
I
CONVENT.
r
By the Author of
MEMOIRS of Mrs. WILLIAMS.
In THREE VOLUME's.
s
VOL. II
«
LONDON,
Printed for T. Becket and P. A. de Hondt,
in the Strand.
M.0CC.LXXI.
. >; 0-, „, V ‘;, .' ^-
• ■• -'- tv • '.. - V V .-' ' • '
IK: L \ ■• '■■ ■■' h.. ■ ^ ^
:;. ■. ‘ - • » »., •■ -- -■- * r' ' •
■•■'•■■ ' ^ ' : - ' * ' ' '- •
'' ' " ' - ' " -■'■ * ■*
.-• / ij '. ■
■ ■ ■ ■ '’c - .' "
-. r' w ■ '■■■ • '. ■
_.. ’ • ’ ‘ ' "... y ‘... i
^ r '■' N ■ '
Iy ' 0 “• ►
.. ^ C .rr' ' • • ■. ■ ■' ". ■
'' * -.; N,..
. ■. ‘ i: ra: r -'■ : ■ ■ ■ ^ ■
. ' ■' ri ' ■ ■. " >
■- ■ ■-. ■ ■■■,, .'. ' i ‘ ^ ‘
'?3i: i- -- .- ' -- N .- •■, ■'■-'* >■
"'■ '-•■ ' ' ■ I -
'-■= -- '.* '■■ ' > • ' ' -'. -- L F
•. • .... ^ 4 •• M
•'■ • ■• *. ■ - ' _•
•. • “y
i. S : _ * V • y V -
■ ^ -. ' • ■ - va
*"' ' ^ *^ ■ ' * *
: AV k^' A -. • ^. r ^
'' ' N " ' V •
, ' ■;; - ■#. ' -.-■. ^ 'ri ■■. ’ '
'' ' .r
V * *. ■ ' ■ i ■ -.. - -.■
rida '••■ ^ ' / '.. - A ^ ‘ •' '. " ’ " .'• V. "■ -*. ' ^
fr ' ‘ ■ ■ ■ * ‘ ', •; > •'''. J
■ •.. _ ■ ■. ■ > ' •'•
''. -/ ^ V o' ', ■ ♦
... .i: L •.'; : ■■■. ■ ■ ' ■
f ' '' ‘ ■ > h - ■ ' ' ■ -. CL A.. ■ ^ .i '• - ■■•', • ' ■ ' .'
^ - - '. ■. ■ .- \ ■ : vit
■* - ■'■ : ■ ■■. - X..
^, ' '
..., ■-. ^-,. _ ' e
I V
■ i •.
, i ■ ■■ n ■ ■ ■■■nu iiiin im ■■■ i p wm
. I ■'
\
L E T T E R S
BETWEEN :
The Right Hon .Lady hu CY Scott
and the lion. Miss Bolton.
* / '
I ’
V
The Right Hon. ’lucy Scott ^, to the Hon. Miss Bolton.
T Received the packet by parson. Jones, my dear, the day after your letter; a thousand thanks for the trouble you have had in writing it over for my perusal. So then, it was Mr. 'Merton that George Boothhy sought, and killed! How unfortunate! Poor Louisa, my heart bleeds for her; I have wept my eyes out on reading her story. She judged right - vol. II B •. 'when
r
.1^1
when fly said, some passages of her history were of so extraordinary a nature as would hardly be credited, unless' by a friend, who vas perfe6uy convinced of her veracity, and integrity of heart. It is, indeed, a very Angular adventure, that of her lover’s dilguise; but what is impossible to fiiperflitious zeal in religion? If the convent walls could Speak, perhaps this story might cease to be extraordinary from the multiplicity of similar ones which would then be revealed. Nothing but time, I apprehend, can, alleviate the sorrows of your friend; she is young, and therefore may take a large dole of this remedy; besides, we Sooner forget the dead than the living. Though the latter be ever So Sar distant, or So long absent, hope keeps the flame alive; but, as you have judiciously observed, despair
must
* s
#
: ' [ 3 ] ■. ' '
/
must; in the end annihilate it, and, when love is no more, grief will vanisti of itself.
I will tell you, Julia, that your friend’s tragical' story, together with your own disagreeable Situation with Harry Boothhy, have alrnoft determined me, never to admit the little, tyrant to my breast : what havoc has he not made in your two gentle bosoms! I will positively have nothing to do either with him, or his mother; the nymph indifference stiall for the future, be my divinity; I will address
her in those beautiful lines of ivshs.
\
'Grevillfs.
“I ak no kind return in love,
“No tempting charm to please;;
“from the heart such gifts remove,
“That Iighs for peace and ease.
B z Nor
. t
.* 0
[ 4 1
‘‘ Nor ease nor peace that heart can knowj.
“That like the needle true,
“Turns at the touch of joy, or woe,
“But turning, trembles too.”
/ \
You will here naturally aflc me,.
■ Julia, what is become of Lord Malcom? To which I answer. He is (I believe) still at his father’s seat in the country : Have you ceased to love him, Lucy.? you’ll Say. Why no, not absolutely; but I never was di strashedly in love either with his lord ship or any ^ other man; which is lucky, as my, mother tells me she is of opinion that Lord Kelfo will never consent to his son’s marriage yvith me, because of the different sentiments of our two families on political points.; Besides, I And my own father would; dislike our alliance as much as lord malcom’s, upon the Same account;.
So..
I
*
;
[ 5 ],
So you see, Julia, we are not very likely to be united, at least for sometime. If we continue, indeed, in the same mind for thirty years to come, we may perhaps, arrive at that period .when all obstacles will be removed, and leave us at liberty to join our. withered hands and grey pates together in holy wedlock. Such constancy would be truly exemplary, and ought to be Sung in a ballad at all •corners of the streets. I treat this subject, you see, my dear, rather i'udi croufly, but it does not please me for ail that; and, between you and I, it is my firm opinion, that if I do not marry Lord Malcom, I shall lead apes' in the other world. * This is certain, ' that I will never be wise to a man whom I do not love; and if my heart .tells the truth, it is too much attached
B 3 • ever
V ^
I
/
/
■ \
k
[ b ]
ever to be capable of making a Second choice. '
I think I hear you Say, “You are “both of you masters of your per“ “and fortunes, and therefore “may certainly marry each other if “you please” ” but I am determined (as I have already said) that that the Smiles and bleshngs of our parents on both Sides, shall accompany us to the altar, or I will never go there. Thus you See, Julia, that I, bid fair for dying an antiquated virgin •, no matter, the thought does not pain me much. Lord Tatton and I intend paying you, a visit at the ' abbey shortly; how impatieritly I long for the moment, which will give me to the arms of my friend, and to the acquaintance of the tender, interesting Louisa. My brother says. Lady h Jane Carr, by your picture of her, is i /■ ■ ' just
► "J»T.
'. V
. '
'■ ^ '
[ 7 1
• » ti
just the.girl of his heart; I wish we may meet her at the abbey. My little Kitty, now Mrs. Lewis, writes often to me; Are is as happy as love, health, and affluence can make her: I have
'• I
had a long epistle' from Mr. Ilackit, ' full of flames, darts, storms, tempests, racks, tortures, and,, in short, everything that’s dreadful arid ter riflck. The word love is frequently introduced into this boisterous com pany, but the sentiment is nowhere to be found throughout the whole
O
letter. This curious composition is the produshion and joint efforts of Sir Jasper, his Lady, and Son. I was perusing this finished piece of eloquence, when Lady Lanfdown came into my dreffing room; she saw me smile, and Said, “Lucy, if it is no ‘‘ indiscretion, I should be glad to know who that letter comes from,
B 4 “which
* >
[ 8 ]
“which Seems to have afforded you - “so much amusement.” My dear Madam, replied I, I have no secrets, you are therefore very welcome to read it; so saying, I presented it to her; she thanked me with her' eyes, and began to read: I Saw "she could not keep her countenance, when returning me the paper, she Said, Smiling, Indeed, my dear Lucy, I am Sorry to ’ find my friend Mr. hd.ckit to be so great a fool; I really could not have believed it of him; but Some folks,
^ continued she, talk well, though they cannot write; nay, I have really known people of very weak understandings make a tolerable figure in ' the epistolary style; therefore, why may not people of sense, by. the Same rule, write ill? I told her Ladyship,
I did not think she had drawn a fair, consequence. Since it might be possible'
'^
/
\
[ ]
■ble for a weak mind to have a memory, and for that reason write tolerable, but that a person of sense;
I apprehended, could never write nonsenle. She tapped my cheek, and replied, “I know child, that Mr.
“Hackit will never find an advocate, in you; and indeed, ” said she,
“he is most ridiculously bombastical.
‘ ‘ He was not, always foi remem “ber him a modest, well behaved “youth, his travels (I fear) have “been ill conducted, since he is ra“ “hurt than improved by them.
“Our observations on men and man“ “shbuld be the criterion by “which we try our own actions, and
“S: herefore, the more varied these ob •
“are, the greater improvement “we may make in ourselves. This “is the use of travelling, that by ' “reading the human heart in a larger
4 “book
. A.
%
•
I *
[ lo .]
book than we could find it wrote in “at home, we may learn to stum “those vices, which we > see always “render their votaries contemptible;
“and, with very few exceptions, in the end, miserable: : on the “other hand, to incite us to an emu“ “of those virtues which So. “conspicuoufly adorn the happy pof “seltors of them. But I am afraid “that this mode of education is often ‘‘ diverted from its purpose, by the bad choice which parents (too fre' “quently) make of the men who ‘‘ call themselves governors to young “Gentlemen; and who, if their man“ “were stririlly examined into, together with their intelledls, would,
I fear, by the careful observer, be “judged incapable of conducing ' “themselves with propriety, and con“ “totally unfit for the em“
“
• »., - V
'ployment they So mfeelingly have “the assurance to undertake.” Here the good soul ceased speaking' ' love my mother, Julia, almost to idolatry; her good nature and universal benevolence touch my heart, and her good sense charms my understanding; in short, she is the friend of my choice, and my confidant. If all mothers were like her, my dear, would there be so many ridiculous, not to say, vicious charafiters as we daily See among the young folks of our Sex 1 I should think not. My reasons for thinking - so are too obvious to want any illustration. My father’s behaviour to my brother is exafitly the counterpart of that of my miother’s to me; how happy are the children who possess such worthy parents! and what monsters of ingratitude should we be; were we capable of giving them one
moment’s
I
[ 12 '],
moment’s pain? Heaven avert it ] even In thought; and yet, my friend, I have a suspicion which gives me great uneasiness; Lord Tat tods temper is open, honest, generous, and humane; but then he is wild, unthinkshg, ancl rash; his passions in their growth, have rather outstripped his reason: premedi tatedly he will never deviate from she paths .of virtue; but then he has ’ many unguarded moments, not to Say hours, in which his passions take the “lead, and reason is silenced by the
^ J
force of sensation. These, observe, my dear, are rather my mother’s outlines of his character,, than my own; to which, however, my'judgement and observations oblige me to assent. Adieu, my Julia, may you be as happy as your real goodness of heart entitles you, prays your truly affeshionate friend, • Tatton Lodge. Lucy Scott.
Miss
\
\
■ [ J ".
\ ^
t
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott;.
r
I
ON'T flatter yourself, my dear;, the nymph indifference will laugh at your prayer; nay more, if indifference could be angry, fne would certainly be so at your petition. You ask no kind return in love, no tempting charm to pleafehow modest this is in you, who pofless in? so Superior a degree the power of, charming; and who can (you' know it) inspire the warmest transports of. returning love in any breast you should.. to attack; nay, you. actually have raised that passion in the only heart you ever wished to warm. What a farce then is this pompous resignation of blessings which you so eminently pofsessi am half angry at you, my dear; you have certainly
,, adopted
/ ^
« •
[ 14 1
adopted the style of Ivy Castle, and therefore I must beg leave to laugh at yon. Tou lead apes! a probable story, indeed! don’t tell it to anybody but me, Lucy, for you won’t gain credit, believe me: But come to Farnahy Ahhey, and we will soon cure you of this tranflent taste for indifference;, our feeling hearts will communicate a part of their Sensibility to yours; we shall all be gainers by this partition, Since Louisa and I have too much of what you seem to be in such want of. However, the former is, I think, more at ease, or less miserable, I believe I should Say, since she unburthened her mind to me, though the narration of her misfortune at the time.was almost too much for her. I have communicated her story to Mr. and Mrs. Boothhy, because I hoped by So doing to relieve in Some measure,
their
/
/•
[ S] ]
* '
their anxiety, which was greatly augmented by their ignorance of the cause ■ whence her sorrow Iprang: I ailb thought it necessary to give them a thorough knowledge of the affair, that they might not (through inadvertency) renew their grief again, as they had already Several times done; add to these considerations, that Louisa had neither diflionoured herself or family, in any one acstion of her life: A cir ■ cumstance which must give them the greatest pleasure, as 1 had long perceived their fuspicions of the con.. to have been an object of their fears. The removal of this appre hension I found was a great consolation to them both; yet they lamented the Severity of their daughter's fate with tears, which were increased by the knowledge, that it was not in their power to relieve her sorrows in the
first '
f
[ i6 ]
I
first place, and in the next, by the reflection that their own Son had been. the author of them; This last thought, ^ I could see, was a pang of the bitterest kind to their honest hearts. After
I
^ I had told the heads of my friend’s story (for I made it as short as I could) Mr. Boothby Said with a deep Sigh, “Rash, inconsiderate boy! was “the evidence of a foolish girl, who might be incited to give it • “against her schoolfellow, either “.through envy or malice, a Sufficient “proof of the fal?? if it were so, did the young Gentleman merit. “death for being honourably in love “with his sister?? ought to have “heard from his own mouth who,
“and what he was, as well as the “nature of his pretensions, before he V had. sought him; or rather, he “ought not to have fought at all.
“Let
\
't 17 I
“Let the affair on examination have “proved ever so bad, the murder of “the man would never have repaired “louifd.s honour; but, on the con“ “could only serve to make the “whole world acquainted with her “shame.” I am very unhappy in my “children, said the good man, wiping “his eyes *, you, Jutia, have contri “buted your endeavours to give me “pain, by opposing all my plans for
“your happiness; but you viii ibon
«
“break my heart among you, ” Said he, dropping a tear. I was sensibly touched at feeing him thus affected; and taking his hand, said, I would, not stifturb. your peace intentionally.
Sir, for the universe, nor all that it contains, except my Harry, and him I never can give up but with life; to renounce him would be my death; and • felfeprefervation is, you kn jw, ' Mr.
vol. II C Boothhy,
\
[ IS 1
Boothhy, the first law of rfatiire; Next to my lover,, your peace is deaf to me; nor will I ever wound it on any other Subjeifl but that of my attachment to him. “This constancy, “my dear, ” replied he, “would be ^ truly admirable at your age, was “the object of it worthy pf you; “but as he is' by no means a fukable “match for a girl of your fortune, it becomes a vice by degenerating “into obstinacy; however, time and “'my fixed refolyes. ever to oppose “a union so very difpropordonate “will, I hope, in the end, con“ “your steadiness. In the mean “while, I am obliged to you, my ‘‘ dear Julia, more than I can ex“ “for your tender care and kind “assiduities to my poor child; and, “more particularly so, for the recital “which you have so generously made
‘ ‘ of
¥
[ 19 ]
“of her sorrows. Mrs. Boothhy and “myself will ever preserve the most“ “sense of the obligations we
O O
“owe to you on that head.”. You have no gratitude in you, replied I, peevishly, or you would not make me the most wretched of beings, whilst' ' my de sires, tend to the happiness of you and yours; so saying, I flounced out of the room.
How cruelly am I situated, Lady Lucy? Obliged to oppose and afflict the man on earth to whom I am the most indebted, who is, and has been a tender parent to me; or to give up the idol of my heart,, and by so doing consecrate the rest of my days to misery: Nay, fuppofing'i did so, the sacrifice would not answer the end, as I am persuaded Mr. Boothhy could never enjoy ease whilst Harry and I vere wretched; for his sake therefore,
C 2 ■ as
(
[ 20 ]
as well as his fon’s, I am bound' to follow my own inclinations, in this point of view, even gratitude demands it for the father,, whilst love pleads the eause of the fon. Affairs being thus amicably Settled between me and my conscience, I shall change the topic, by Saying, that you alarm me. about Lord Tatton ', I should be extremely Sorry that he could be capable of doing anything which might lessen the high esteem I have ever had for him. He is the man of all others, who would have been the objecst of my choice,, had not lily heart known a prior engagement before I Saw him.; he is the very image of my Lucy; is it then extraordinary that I should be strongly prejudiced in his favour Sure he has not flung a profane eye on your favourite little Sufait! Forgive this Suspicion, if unjust; but she is very
pretty,
*
m
I 2t' 1
pretty, and my Lord (where the heart is free)'mufl:, I imagine, be irresiftible.
I therefore hope I am mistaken, and that he has made no attack on that.
t
quarter; arid the more So, as I know ' your sondness for the girl.
The obstacles you Seem to apprehend with regard to yourself and Lord Malcom give me infinite concern; yet remember, my dear, that you told me in one of your letters, that “you “could wait willingly ten years for the man you loved, so you was but Sure of having him at that period.” Now I really think (without being too sanguine) you maybe pretty certain, before the expiration of that time, all obje<5lions will be removed which at
•• I
present impede your union; and then, who knows but you and I may be married on the same day. We Shall probably be arrived at years of disc
3 ^ ere tion
N • I
[ .22 ]
cretion by that time; and may, for ought I know, make much better wives than if we had married younger. Our men too, I hope, will have reaped greater advantages from their experience and knowledge of the world; there will then be no danger of our changing' our Sentiments with, regard to each other, after having past; So long a probation. In short, upon the whole I think it is a prudent plan which fortune Seems determined we shall follow, though Sore against our inclinations I am afraid. When you See your Swain, don’t forget, my dear, to inquire after my Harry', and give ■ me all the particulars which you can learn about him. How much happier is your situation than mine! vast Seas do not divide you from the object of your affedions; you need not be ignorant of where he is, or how he does;
’ no
■ '%
[ 23 ]
no doubts diilrash your' breast; lest he should prove inconstant, or that absence should weaken his passion for you : In short, in your position J am persuaded I should not murmur, if I was even condemned to wait twenty years for his hand. Let me but talk to him, see him, and know that I possess his heart, I aflc no more; but to be deprived of all these bleshngs is to be wretched. Such is the hard fate of your ever faithful friend,
Farnahy Ahhey. Julia Bolton.
/
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
JULI A, my suspicions wtee but too well grounded, my brother has ruined Susan. I cannot describe the concern this cruel affair gives me; she has lived with me ever since we were both children; her parents are tenants
C 4 to
[ 24- ]
m mine, and there cannot be worthier, honefcer people than they are. The other day whilst: stie was dressing me,
1 questioned her about her health, as I for sometime perceived her to look pale and melancholy: I therefore in ststed that stie should have some advice, She answered, that stie was greatly obliged for my attention to her, but assured me she was much better than she had been, and should do very well without a doctor. I however sent for one, who, after being alone with her for sometime, declared, her disorder to be a fever upon the spirits; and that air, exercise, and diffipatioh, together with some medicines which he would order her, were necessary towards the restoration of her health. You know, my dear, that I have always treated this poor girl more. like a friend than a servant; and on
this
[ 25 ] ' ■
this occasion. I doubled my attention and tenderness towards her, and made her go out on airing every day in the poft chaife or chariot, often accompanying her myself; at which times I observed that fly took no pleasure in the ride, and I could hear her flgh frequently, as if her heart would brpak.
I now began to fufpect that her dejection of spirits proceeded from a disapprobation of her own coiidud, and was therefore determined to get the secret out of her if possible, in order to apply a remedy to it, if in, my power; and accordingly one mornt ing, when we were in the chaise together, I said, Susan, what am I to think of the languid state I see you in, and your obstinate concealment of the cause which has flung you into it? a cause, which if you was not ashamed to own, you would doubtless, long
ago
/
[ ^5 ]
; ago have communicated to me, who you know to be your friend, as well as your mistress. You must be cer i tain, Stifan, that if your happiness depended upon me, you would now have nothing left to wish. If you ‘ have fixed your affections upon Some young man, whose narrow circumstances prudence will not permit you to marry, make me your confidant, ' and that obstacle Snail Soon be removed : Nay, if you are already married, and you fear my disapprobation of your choice, declare it, and I will endeavour to make you happy in your own way, however little your conduct: in the affair may merit my sanccion. Finding she made no reply to all these interrogations, but continued weeping bitterly, with her eyes cast down, I went on: Yet more, Susan, should it be worse than all I have supposed;
should
• V. • *.
'\
t 27 ]
V
should you even have Swerved from the path of virtue, tell me so; and in that cafe alone, though I cannot give you peace, yet I will assist you ' to hide your shanie to the utmost of my power. As I pronounced these last words, I fixed my eyes full upon the poor girl’s face, I saw her trembling all over, and as pale as death, when she instantly fainted away in my arms. I called out for the chaise to stop, and applied eau de luce to her nose; she revived, and I ordered the ^ postilion to drive slowly home: And now the poor creature, with a look which pierced my heart, (in it were blended shame, repentance, gratitude, and afseftion) took my hand, and respeftfully putting it to her lips, and at the Same time bathing it with her tears, fly sobbing said“ “excess of goodness, Madam, overcomes
“me.
\ "
I
[■ 28 ]
« ^
me. I am, alas! most unworthy of it — but though I am fallen from “virtue — yet I can never cease to venerate and admire it in others.
“Indeed, Madam, continued the, “poor affliriled girl, I am a monster “in my own eyes, and am sensible“ “don’t deserve that you should con“ “to take the least notice of “me; ’tis conscious guilt which de ‘‘ stroys me, and your goodness in“ “of lessening, increases my fen“ “of it: Therefore, pray, my ‘‘ dear Lady, ’ do Send me from you “• — indeed, indeed, I am not worthy “to be admitted into your presence— — ^
“have often been desirous of tell“ “your Ladyship so, but shame ‘‘ has hitherto tied my tongue.” What have you then done, my poor isttfan? said I, the tears falling from; my eyes. “Alas! Madam, ” she replied
/
<
t 29 I
plied (hiding her face with a handkerchief) “I have given way to the too.
• “great fenflbility of my own heart, ■ “and have listened to the Seducing,
“language of the most amiable of
O O
“his sex, till I lost every sense of “honour and conscience, and fell a “willing victim to vicei say, a will“ “one, because my weak heart “(which had long felt the power of “his charms) betrayed me more than“ “his entreaties or perfuaflons “could ever have done; but do not “think, Lady Lucy, f hat I am hard“ “in wickedness: No, thank “God, the delirium of my Senses“ “not long; and when I awaked:
“from it, my resolution was fixed “never to repeat the crime again.
“'Tis this resolution (which I have “most steadily adhered to), together ‘‘ with my repentance of the ad:,.
which
f
»
\
i
[ ]
/
which have reduced me to the state ’ “which your Ladyship now Sees me “in. I feel, however, some relief. “from this confession of my guilt, “as I am conscious, Lady Lucy, that “you ought not to keep in your “service, much less about your per“ “Such a wretch as I am; and for “that reason I have long wished to “reveal my shame, that you might ‘‘ use me as I deserve, by discarding“ “from, the house and family. “besides, my dear young Lady, it is absolutely necessary that I should“ “Tatton Lodge immediately.
“My God !” exclaimed the almost frantic girl, railing her hands and eyes to Heaven, “shall I ever Survive thk moment? Be composed, my dear Stifan," said I, looking com paffionately on her, “you may yet be “saved from ruin if you whll listen
“to
'i 31 I
“to me; I shall not pretend either to“ “or expatiate on the enor “mity of the folly you have been “guilty of; it, like other als of the same nature, has brought its “punishment along with it; I do not “therefore mean to increase your grief by my upbraidings, but on the “contrary, my intention is to all“ “it, by my endeavours to re ■ “you to virtue, which can only ■ “be done by leading you into' the “paths of honour again. Now, ‘‘ should your story be known, ' the “ill natured world would soon stop “up the road, and render your en“ “into it ’ impradicable for the “rest of your days. I therefore “charge you to exert yourself, and ‘‘ not give way to this immoderate “grief, which will certainly occasion“ “in the minds of your fellow

: T 32 ]
low fervants, no ways advantageous “to your reputation. I think I per“ “Susan, that your heart is not “corrupted; and if so, this devia“ “from virtue, which you seem“ “severely to repent of, may be a “powerful means of attaching you to “her service for the future; and, in “that cafe, I shall never withdraw “my friendship and protection from “you; and I hope your conduct; will “be such as may justify the kindness ‘‘ I Show you; but take care, Susan“ “to disappoint my hopes; for should you ever swerve a second“ “from the laws of discretion and “decency, I will from that moment “renounce all connexions with you for ever.” Here the poor creature was almost suffocated with the various .emotions which my discourse had occasioned in her mind; she felt too
2 much
■ i *
4
V ' *
■ I s3 ]'
V
much to speak articulately; I could only distinguish a few words, such as thanks, prayers, blessings, which were the effuflons of a gratesul heart. I did not ask her if my brother was her Seducer, because, though I was almost Sure it was him, yet, if I am mistaken,
I should have been Sorry tp have acquainted her that I suspedled him; I therefore resolved to learn, the truth ' from his own mouth. This affair, Julia, vexes me to the heart, for two reasons; the first, because I am Sorry for the girl, and the next, because I \ cannot bear to. think my brother in the wrong; I love them both, and therefore their errors give me infinite ' pain. I must .ask your advice how to place this unhappy creature. So as to Secure her from all future danger bn the part ofthemanwho has ruined hen,
I would beg you y to take her, my dear,
vol. II D but
0
E 34 i
but then if it is as I sufped, Lord' Tatton is frequently at Mr. boothhy's.y. and I would have the girl never see him more for her own peace; the sight of him would only renew her grief and remorse; or which is still ten times worse, perhaps awaken 'in her breast that passion which I hope by time, absence, and a just sense of her folly, ftie will be able to subdue.
I will, I think, write to Mrs. Lewis, and tell her, that if convenient, I intend myself the pleasure of making her a visit at the farm for a fortnight:
1 can then, on some pretence or other, leave Susan there for a time. Kitty,
1 know, wtii do anything to oblige me; and mv mother will make no
^ ^ J
further inquiries on my return without her, when I inform her that the air agreed well with the girl, and therefore I left her behind me for a few
months
V
N.
* V • '
V ±.
[ 35 ]
months with my friend, till her health was re eftabliihed. If you approve of ■ this scheme, I will immediately put it into execution.
When I came home last night from ■ a visit I had been making in the neigh bourhood, I went strait up stairs into my dreffing room, and sat down to ruminate on the plan I had formed to rescue poor Susan from obloquy; when, ' who Should interrupt my cogitations. but the very man I was thinking of. Lord Tat tonne. On entering the room, and feeing me in a thoughtful posture' ' said“ “dear Lucy, you look “grave, are you ill, or has anything “vexed you ?” Indeed, brother, I replied, I am made very unhappy by the ill state of health I see my poor Susan in : He looked very serious, and answered, I have myself observed. an alteration in the girl lately,, which
O y r
D 2 hgs
/
I -
/
t
[ 3^ 1 '
has given me great imealiness; apa I wish, added’ he (sighing) it was in my power to relieve her. No, no, i
brother,, Said I, it is now no longer So, linless you could restore what 1 much fear you have robbed her of,, I mean her innocence, and consequently her peace. He started, and replied, Yoir Surprise me sister, by this abrupt accusation; but I am no hypocrite, nor am I a hardened libertine; the sorrows of that poor girl pierce miysoiil, and I would give my right hand to be able to recall a few past moments but as that is impossible, I can only Say, that I am ready to, make her all the reparation in my power: Any Sum,, Lady Lucy, that you shall think reasonable, I will Settle upon her, or give it her entirely in the manner you shall dictate. I know, Lucy, Said he,, that unblemished virtue, like that you
V 4 postefs,
* »
* »
t 37, ]
postefs, never preys on the w^eaknestes of your own sex, but rather extends a willing hand to Support and reinstate a fallen Sister into the paths of honour, from whence she has unfortunately strayed’. I have frequently observed, that it is only those females who are conscious that they have tripped themselves, who wish to bring all the Sex down to their own level, and for that purpose, shut their hearts to the tender pleadings of pity, and compassion for human frailties. You preach well, brother. Said I, and give excellent les sons to the Ladies; may not I, in return, be permitted to. moralise on the conduct of the men .she Smiling answered. Yes, Lucy, but take notice that I don’t pretend to vindicate my
conduct in this affair : I know it will
\
admit of no excuse, or at least: not of any which I can urge as a palliative to
D 3 you.
I
»
[ 38 ]
you, without running a risque of wounding your delicacy; I must therefore fling myself upon your mercy, and plead guilty. Let me however, recommend the fair Sufferer to your protection, •, is infinitely to be ' pitied, upon my Soul, my heart bleeds for her; Here he turned from me to hide a falling tear; when recovering himself, he Said, She is, Lucy, (however Strange it may Sound to your chaste ear) virtuous; the steady resistance she has made to all my entreaties for a renewal of our intimacy, tho’ I know she loves me to idolatry, is a proof of my assertion; her heart is without a blemish, nor will she (i’ll be her bond) ever Suffer her passions to silence her reason a Second time. But
I
I know you, Lucy, (Said this coaxing lad) and therefore why need I plead thus to that gentle heart of yours,
which
«
; [ ?9 ]
which is ever ready to Sooth and Succour merit in distress“ “have now “only to beg, that you will command “my purse and Services in any Scheme “you may project in order to procure “to this poor girl peace and comfort.”
Then kissing my hand, he said. don’t defpise me. Sister; I am a. true penitent, faith I am; and this affair will teach rne never to repeat an aft, which must inevitably be followed by ftame, contrition, and remorse. I told him, that I Sincerely rejoiced to find him So sensibly touched at his own wickedness, which I looked upon as a Security for his future good behaviour.
It was not necessary to tell him, I should take every possible care of Susan;; knew it too well to doubt it; I shall not however, communicate my intention of placing her at the Farm; yet it will be time enough to ‘
D 4 do
[ 40 ]
do that a few hours before I Set off. Adieu my dearest: Julia, I am tired with writing. Yours affectionately,
Tatton Lodge. ' Lucy Scott.
^ ■
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott,. \ '
T TOW amiable is your conduct, my
dear Lady Lucy, with regard to poor Susan!! a girl in her Situation has been lost for want of Such a friend; a moment is Sufficient to ruin the person of a girl, but it requires a length of time to corrupt a mind that has been virtuousty educated. How cruel therefore must the case of those unhappy females be, who, from a momentary Seduftion of the senses, find themselves at once abandoned by the women, and treated with the most mortifying familiarity by the men, without a postibility of ever regaining
the
%
[ 41 ]
the road to virtue! which is barred against them by the turpitude (allow me the expression) of their own sex, who foolishly imagine, that they heighten their own characters in the » Same degree, as they tear to pieces,, and depreciate, those of others; and ' that a violent zeal in the persecution of these unhappy fair ones, is a pofl tive proof of their own immaculate purity. Thus lost to the society they had been used to, vice ooens her arms to receive them; they shudder at her approach, but having no alternative, follow her : Time and bad comipany render her familiar, till in the end they become the disgrace of our sex, as well as the reproach of the other. How many of these unfortunate wretches might be Saved, ' did all women think and act like you, Lucy?
In my opinion, you can place Susan
no
V
[ 42 ]
nowhere better than with Mrs. Lewis.
I need not tell you how ready I should be to receive her here; but then I must give up the pleasure of feeing Lord Tatton this summer; as I agree with you, that it is absolutely necessary she should be removed from his Sight till she recovers her health and reason again. How truly pitiable is her condition? What conflifting passions must tear her bosom Love, shame, and remorse, are doubtless the cruel inmates of her breast: Poor girl! with such companions, how can llie know peace? “for peace, O virtue! peace “is all thy own.” Lady Jane Carr arrived here a few days ago; she is lovely beyond description, and has, if I aiti not mistaken, a good deal of. the coquette in her composition, owing, I fuppose, to her Paris education; yet everything she Says and
does
4
\
i
t 43 ]
does becomes her so well, that I am apt to think she would lose by any alterations being made either in her carriage or behaviour. She has an easy careless wildness about her that is enchanting; The iheeting of her and Louisa was pathetic to a degree which moved us all; they flew into each others arms with transports. Louisa wept aloud, whilst Lady Jane looked at her friend with the most tender fensibilitv. ave left them alone for upwards of an hour; on our return, I could perceive by Miss booth hfs eyes, that she had been crying a good deal, but was then pretty tolerably composed. Yesterday morning, as I was taking a Solitary walk in the Park, thinking of my Harry, I heard Somebody running after me; on turning my head to See who it was, I perceived Lady Jane Carr, without either ‘ ' hat
»
t
J ^
r 44 ]
shat or gloves, and almost out of breath, calling out, Miss Bolton, stop! I did So, till she came up to me; when taking hold of my arm. She said, I have a Secret to tell you, my dear: “You Sober, discreet young women “are much fitter to be trusted with “one, than us giddy headed girls are: “But to be serious: You are the “friend of Louisa as well as myself, “Miss Bolton, and I find you know her story; but I know more than “either of you do, which is, ’ that “young Merton is not dead; nay, “that he is even pretty well recovered of his wounds, and is gone to the “South of France with his parents,, “for the reestablishment of his
I
health; and what’s still more than “all this, said fly, putting her hand “into her pocket, here’s a letter from him to Louisa, •, presenting it
‘‘ to
%
4
V
[ 45 I
to me. Take it, said she, I durst not mention a word of all this to our friend, for fear of killing her with joy; but you. Madam, will, I am, “persuaded, communicate the pleasing ‘‘ news to her in a proper manner; and “therefore I have prudently given this commiffion into abler hands than my “own.” I was, as you may fuppole,. my dear, ^ most agreeably surprised at what this sprightly girl had told me and aflced her how she came not to produce this letter foonershe replied, Because' it was a serious af -- “fair, and I am so little used to things “of that nature,, that I was puzzled“
“to aft: I wanted first to learn“ “knew lopdfd.s story; as, if I ‘‘ found she had concealed it from “one in the family, I must necessarily have given her the information and “letter myself; but,, if on the con' '

i
I
'' [ 45 ] '
“trary, either you, or her parents, “were made acquainted with her hif ‘‘ tory, I thought the difcovery would “come better from any of you, than “from me At last she told me that
f ' N
, “you was her confidant, when I in“ “determined to request you to “break the afrair to her, as I was cer “tain you would do it with much “more address and propriety than I “could, though wtth the best inten ‘‘ tions in the world.” I commended her prudence, and told her, Irniling, that I would charge .myself with the’ commission, as she requested it; but that, I really thought she was as capable to the full of executing it as I; and had only given it me to Save herself the trouble. that’s*not the cafe, replied she; there is no trouble I would
not cheerfully undertake to serve
\ «
• Boothby. I • then aflced her
Several
/ I
/
/ '
[ 47 ]
Several questions about Mr. Merton, fne told me, he was a most amiable young Gentleman, both in mind and figure; but that his having been educated So many years as a girl, had given him an effeminate carriage,
O O ^
which, she supposed, time might wear off. He is continually placing his hands across before him, said file; and has a softness, arid a sort cf restraint in his manner, that is not manly; then he walks with his knees too close together; in short, I don’t know how to ‘ describe him to you; but altogether, ■. there is an aukwardness about him which makes me laugh. I then inquired how she came by the letter.' He Sent it indosed to me, she replied for I had told him I was going to England soon, when I met him at the Prujfian ambaffador’s, which was the, .first time, he said, that he had been
out
t
» /
[ 48 ]
%
but a visiting Since his illness“ “‘‘ found that he left Paris not long, ‘‘ after this interview; and I fancy he
“must have been pretty narrowly
/
“watched, or he would certainly “have contrived to have, wrote to “Louisa long before now.” Nay, probably, ' continued fly, he has wrote letters which have been intercepted by his mother; for by what he said to me (the only time I Saw him out of '. the convent) I could perceive his passion for my friend to be as violent as ever. “He swore then, that no hii “man power should prevent his mar“ “of her.” Lady Jane and I now returned home to breakfast. The pleasing news I had just heard flung an unusual vivacity into my eyes, .which Louisa taking notice of, said, I see, Julia, that my sprightly friend has raised your spirits this morning,
which
[ 49 ]
which I am sincerely glad of I art
/ ____
that I had indeed, been much, entertained during our, short walk in Lady cornpany; adding, that
a little exercise might perhaps have the'
'same effect upon her; I therefore entreated her to take my arm, and walk a turn or two in the garden.'. Lady Jane took the hint, and went to play on the the harpsichord. As soon ■ we were alone, I began to talk of Mr. Merton, she seemed surprised, as it was a sub jeft I had hitherto carefully avoided; and looking at me, said, How comes it, my. dear Julia, that you mention with So much apparent ease the name of that, unfortunate youth Because,
I replied, I have a great notion that he is not dead. Not dead! exclaimed
C
she, my God! what can make you
“4
think so? Nay, said I, I know nothing certain about the matter; but Lady vol. II E ' Lucy
^4 \
\
J
} ^
'[ T
Lucy Scott writes me, that in com ■ she heard somebody say they had heard Sir Frattcis and Lady aierton were gone to the South of France with their, only fon, who., had been Supposed to be mortally wounded in a duel, and. was still in a very weak
^
state of health. Here I. paused; she was,, I perceived, lost in thought; when railing her streaming eyes on me,.
■ she uttered a deep sigh, saying, Gracious Heaven! does he indeed still live 1' but no, he was (you tell me.) in a very, weak state of health, and may, for ought I know, be dead again by this time. This expression made me smile; when taking me in her arms she cried,., Ah! Julia, you know more than you tell me about Mr. Merton for pity’s Sake ease my throbbing breast, and tell me all. Indeed, my dear, I answered, I know no more, but have 4, wrote:
/
t 51 ].
wrote to Lady Lucy to make further, inquiries after him; in the mean time, I think it is probable that he may recover, and it is a great comfort to know that he was not'killed, as you supposed him to have been; is it not, Louisa?? is, it is too much felicity! said she, - bursting into tears: Let him but live, and I shall be happy, though I may never see him more. Here Mr. Boothby's presence interrupted our conversation. I took the first opportunity I could find to tell my guardian what had past between Lady Jane, his daughter, and I, that morning. He was lavish in his praises of my discretion, as well as in the expreifions of his gratitude for the tender care, as he expressed it, which I took of his daughter’s health and peace. I wish to God, Lucy, that he would follow my example, by showing as much
E 2 tender
[ 52 "
m
tender care of mine aiididfry’s happi •
nefs, as I do for his daughter’s.
I shall leayeiouifa to ruminate on
what I have told her, for Some time,
before I dare venture to show her the
% ■
letter; as you may do, my dear, upon the Singularity of her fate; young as Die is, to shave experienced so many vicishtudes in life. Adieu, my ever dear friend, I wish you a good journey, and great pleasure at Lewis Farm, though I grudge them your company, as it was promised to me. don’t Hay long, and believe me ever faithfully yours,
Farnahy Ahhey. J. Bolton.
/
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
I Arrived here some days ago, my dear, but could not find time to write till now; • poor Stfan I thought
would
\
I
} * %
"s
» 1
* > *
*
[ 53 1
would have died upon the road. My
brother, who has conllantiy avoided
her ever Since my discovery of the
affair, took care to go from home the
night before my departure from the
lodge, in order not to hand me into
the chaise, or rather, not to See Susan
go off. She kept up her spirits pretty
well till we lost: sight of the house,
when her grief vas immoderate; T
feolded, Soothed, and tried every
means I could think of to abate her
sorrow;; last she became more calm,
and expressed a real satisfaction at
being removed from the man who had
been the rhurderer of her peace. By
the bye, Julia, I suspect that my
mother’s observing eye has penetrated""
our Secret, and that, .on feeing me aft
in the affair in a manner which met • * * ^
with her approbation, she prudently concealed her knowledge of it.
E 3 Oi]’
[ 54 ] '
On my taking leave of her, she embraced me tenderly, saying“ ““dieu, my dear girl, may providence “reward your benevolence, by pro“ “you friends (whose hearts “may be as generous and noble as “your own) on any emergency in “which you may want their affill “ance.” I made no other answer than by preshng her dear hand to my lips. My father said. Goodbye, Lucy, don’t Stay long from us, my dear child, ’ds a real sorrow to your mother and I to part with you, though for ever so short a time; but your motives for ■ " taking this journey are so truly amiable and meritorious, that we can say nothing against; it. I took no notice of all these hints, but promising to return home soon, gos into the post-chaise, into which I was handed by the best of fathers, and away we drove.
At
I
[ 55 r
<• • At night we arrived, here : I felt a little foolish tenderness about my heart, Julia, on entering the inn where I had first .Seen Lord Malcom, it did me no essential harm however, for I never. was more cheerful than on meeting this amiable .family. I found Kitty a little thicker in the waist, than when I saw her last; but, she looks vastly well, and is much improved in her carriage. The unaffected,, which these good people expressed on feeing me, gave me infinite pleasure. I inquired after the family at Ivy Cajile, young Lewis answered, laughing. They are at present. Madam, all in an uproar; “but, dear Lady Lucy, a “truce with your curiosity till to“ “when you fiiall know the “history; but, for tonight, suffer us “to talk of nothing but the pleasure we feel on feeing you at Lewis
E 4 farmt
y
w -
- / '
[ 56 ] '
\
I
“Farm." Kitty never took her eyes off me all the evening, and kept my hand continually in hers: The old folks expressed the joy my presence gave them, in every word and action. How innate worth embellishes the
1
human form, Julia, whilst her opponent vice, disfigures it in the same proportion? These good folks have something divine about them, pro' ' from the rectitude of their
O. '
hearts, and increase of their manners. There is an honest Simplicity in them, which attradts and charms and which is as far from rusticity, as it.is from
courtly affectation; in short, ’tis the
/
language of hearts well educated, whose purity needs no disguise. I wish, as you say, that anybody would console us. We are two forlorn dam ^ crossed in love, and yet no creature seems to care a farthing about it.
5 Indeed,
I
. A '/ / -■. - '
t <
t
'[ 57 ] '■ ■
Indeed, my inclination is a Secret, and shall be so till I return to London; and then, if my swain continues in the Same mind, I shall openly declare it.
My mother, it is true, knows something, of the matter, but she has not thought proper to mention a word of
it either to my father or brother. ^
<0
Piere I was obliged to lay down' my pen, I wnite such long letters that they are the work of days. — Mr. Charles Lewis aflced me this morning
O
(with an arch turn of his eye) how Lord Malcom did i I replied (without any hesitation) Upon my word I don’t know; I have neither heard of him, or Seen him. Since we parted at Ivy Cafile. If So, said the fly lad, then I know more of him than you do, Lady,
Lucy; for here is a letter (showing it me) which I received from his lord strip yesterday, wherein he tells me, •
that
t
0
[ 58 ]
''that he will, honour our cottage with shis presence in a few days. I biuflied. “You will not object to his company, “I hope.” Indeed, continued he, (with an aflefted carelessness) I could not possibly foresee that his Lordship would fulfil the obliging promise he had made us of a visit, precisely at the time your Ladyship was here. I could beat you, said I, for thus trifling with me; for 1 see plainly this is all a concerted scheme. You, Charles, want to be revenged on me for giving
o 00
you a wife, by procuring me a husband. He laughed and replied, why faith. Madam, if Lord Malcom should prove as good a husband as my Kate does a vise, I think I cannot make you a more valuable present. But pray, said I, how came you and Lord mai com to correspond i That honour, Madam, he answered, I owe to, your
Lady
/
59 ] ' ■
*
I
Ladyship: His Lordship knew there ' vas intercourse by letters between you and my>wife, and therefore made use of me, in order to get intelligence about your Ladyship“ “so you “kindly let him know that I was “coming here, ' and invited him to “meet me ?” Why, something like it, I confess, said he. I looked grave, and told him he had acted imprudently. My dear Lady Lucy, Said his father, do forgive my fon in favour of the goodness of his intentions : Besides, if you will permit me to Say so,,
I really think my Lord Malcom deserving of you; he is a mighty good young man, and loves you as you ought to be loved, with a passion as delicate as’ it is fervent. I changed
O
the conversation by afleing what was the matter at Sir Jasper's His answer I Shall not tell you at present; it would ■ • make
/ >
'[ ]
S
/
rhake my letter too long. Inform me how miss Boothhy received the interesting intelligence which you kept in reserve for her : I dread lest fly should die of joy.
Poor Susan mends I think, change of scene hds visibly been of service to her.; young Mrs. Lewis's attention to have her amused and taken care of is
*
truly amiable. This little woman' is notable in her family, and has taken ' all the care of it off her mother in law, who almost idolises her; yet fly seems to have nothing to do, though she directs the motions of everything from the garret to the kitchen. The servants understand her looks; for which '.reason she never disturbs her company, either by finding fault wdth them, or by giving them her directions. The old folks have resigned;
;
the house to the young ones, and there
•
<
✓
V ' 0..
. t, 6t ]
fore call themselves their guests; and. the young couple behave to them as if they owed everything they pofless' to their bounty. Again I repeat it, ' how lovely is virtue! what happi/iess She bestows on her votaries!, I could ■
dwell for ever on this 'theme, but
* \ ^ ^
luckily for you I have not time at present;; adieu my - Sweet girl, love /' your own. ' ■
t \
Lewis Farm. lucyscott.
... \
PA. I fancy I shall Lke Lady Jane:
Carr vastlvbe Sure to make me ■ known to her when we meet in London. I know Lord and Lady
Plumfiead very well.
! ' •
.1 -. ’.
/
'■ /
J;
I • '. • ■
'* • * k
'* ■ &
V
I
■. • Miss
'-1. *
* - *.
» •
*
[ <52 r ■
0
V
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
A
I
'J ^ Lucy will perhaps L be surprised when I inform her that my Lord Tattcn is with us at the Abbey; he arrived the day before I received your last letter. We were all (as you may suppose) delighted to see him : He told us that you was gone to Lewis Farm, and not knowing when you purposed coming back, he had determined not to be disappointed of ' his intended visit to us, and was therefore come alone. He had not been long here before I found his attention was flxt on the fine features of my friend Louisa; when putting his mouth to my ear he whispered“ “that Sweet girl is in love too, I perceive; and you, I fuppose, are still sighing for your Harry; so that if the
“sprightly
a'
%
I
\
\
[ 63 J
• V
sprightly Lady Jane don’t take com /
“on me, I shall inevitably be reduced to the state of a confidant “among you; for which office I really “think myself rather too young.” I laughed and told him. Lady' Jane ’ hoped I would take pity of his deplorable condition, and not Suffer him toad; a part so very ill calculated for his^ genius. He Smiled,, and quitting me, went and Seated himself by Lady Jane; where I shall leave him for, the present,, return to my friend Louisa. She'" fleet but little the night after our conj.
O
versation in the garden; the next day she and I talked of nothing but her lover. She now began to familiarise her mind to the idea of bis being alive, and was consequently no longer fluttered at the mention of his name. The day following I aflted her, that in cafe he should write, whether she could!
receive
%
- ' r
. '. [ 64 ]
/
-> receive a letter from hiiri without sus
*
emotions which might endanger
> O - o o
/ her heakh? I did not stay for her answer, but went on, “for I think icis “probable, that as Soon as he is able, “he will find a way to let you hear ‘ from him.” She replied, I don’t
know,, my, dear, whether I might not die of joy .at such an unhoped for event.' You would do w’ell to prepare yourself for it, said I, because I have a sort of
'' V I
, prefcientiment’tbax. you will hear from him shortly. “Why do you flatter “my fond wishes So much, my friend!
. ' “confider that I am too weak to bear
“a disappointment.” ' I assured her I had my reasons for saying what I did; as I was morally sure fly would either hear from, or of, Mr. Merton in a very
few days.' She embraced me, saying
\
\ •
- r
* Foreiight.
Hvas
, >
\
- [ 65 ]
I was her Support and comfort; that' she knew I was' incapable of deceiving her; adding, how shall I ever show my gratitude Sufficiently to you, for the joyflil news you have just now. told me? In the afternoon she aflced me. at least fifty times over, when I thought it probable that I should receive a letter from Lady Lucy Scott (as she ’,, conceives you, my dear, to be the source from whence I draw all my intelligence). I at last ventured to tell, her, that if she would' muster, up all her courage, and promise to behave well, I would read to her a part of your letter which I had just received.
With the utmost eagerness she answered for the propriety of her behaviour:
I therefore drew an old letter of yours out of my pocket, in which 1 pretended to read most of the circumstances which Lady Jane had informed
vol. II F - me
\
't
/ '
I
» ‘
[ 66 ] ■.
me of relative to Mr. Merton; adding, that he had sent a letter to Miss Boothby. by a friend who'was going to England.
I could perceive her eyes. Sparkle with joy whilst: I read. As Soon as 1 had done, she caught my hand in a kind, ' of rapture, saying, my dear Julia,
I knew' you was too good, too prudent, to give me hopes which were ill-founded. Good God! cried she, clapping her hands together, he lives then — loves me — and I shall hear from him! I made her no answer, but let her alone to digest what I had already giyea her; till observing her to be buried in thought, I roused her by saying. Come Louisa, let us take a i walk; I 'shall expect to be paid for my news by the cheerfulness of your future behaviour; ' no more sighs nor tears, or I have done with you, and your affairs for ever. God forbid!
cried
i
N '
[ 67 ]
cried the poor girl; but indeed, Julia,
I cannot So soon forget how wretched I have been : My Sorrows were become habitual to me, and it will require sometime before I can teach my heart to regain its former tranquillity I, i have not yet been able to convince my senses of the reality of those truths which you have so obligingly communicated to me. “Have patience “with me, my dear friend; a little “time will, I hope, retune my facul “ties to pleasure, which are by a long.
“disuse, totally unstrung and discordant.” Make haste then, said I, to put them in order against this letter comes. We now went into the garden, where we found your brother and Lady Jane at high romps together, and the good old couple seated on a bench' laughing .at them; these two wild. things, Lucy, Seem to be made for
F 2 each
(
[ 68 J
each other. Lord Tatton, it seems had laid a discretion with Lady Jane, that he could leap over the Ha, Ha: She took the bet that he could not. he however did it, and claimed a kiss :
'She insisted that kissing was indiscreet,, and therefore could never come under the denomination of a discretion. He declared that the victor had an undoubted right to choose his reward; adding, that she was certainly the first person that ever supposed a kiss to be an indiscretion. In short, he w'oum. be paid, and was; but he took it in so respectful a manner, that her Ladyship could not with justice have been angry with him. They are an inexhaustible fund of amusement to each other; they Sing, play, walk, ride, romp, and go a fishing together. Nay, they have drawn one another’s pictures in caricatura. They are like however,
'and
J
\
t 69 1
and from their extreme ugliness, would, make you laugh to think that, two Such pretty people should be represented like monsters, .and yet bear Some resemblance of the originals; they are done with charcoal upon blue paper. ^ ^
The next day, after having conversed for near an hour with Louisa on the old subject, she appeared to be in such tolerable spirits, that after a short preface I .ventured to give her Mr. merton’s letter. She seized it trem^
i
bling; I conjured her to be calm. She appeared much agitated during the perusal of it. I dreaded the event; ■when, on finishing the letter, she burst into a violent flood of tears. I was. glad to see them flow, as they were (I could perceive) the expreshons of her joy; then giving me the paper, fly Said, read it, Jtdia, whilst I try to
F 5 compose[
[ ]
compose myself“ “I think “pleasure is as hard to bear as pain; “but I am, a poor weak creature.” So saying, she turned pale, her voice ' faltered, and she sunk lifeless off her chair. I rung for help, and she Soon ' recovered, when she begged my pardon for having alarmed me so much, for I believe I looked like ' death; promising upon her honour, that fire would exert herself for the future, and never frighten me in the
., ^ ^ O '-
Same manner again.; I thanked her for those afllirances, as I really have suffered a great deal on her account. I now read the letter which I here send you a copy of. My Spirits are fatigued. Adieu, my dear Lucy, ever yours,
Farnahy Alley. juliabolton,
Mr.
f
''yi ]
\
1
•. * \
Mr. Merton to Miss Boothby. ''
(
My lovely friend and mistress, my
ever dear Louisa,
I Now steal the first moment in which I have had an opportunity' of writing to you, flnce the fatal evening on which I Saw you in the parlour of the convent, to inform you of what happened to me on quitting you. I went, as it was late, as fast as I could, to join my servant and horses; when I perceived a young gentleman standr ing by them. I approached with Some ' diffidence, as fearing I might be discovered by one of my father’s acquaintance; when he, in an angry tone. of voice, accompanied by a menacing air, afired me, what bufl ness I had in that convent? Who I visited there? and what was my name?
F 4 I re
«
,
[ 72 ]
, I replied, that as I conceived, he had no authority to interrogate me in that insolent style, I should beg leave to answer none of his questions, and was going to mount my horse; when catching hold of me, he said. You are a rascal. Sir, or you would neither wish to Secrete your name, or attempt to Seduce a girl of family and fashion, who was placed in that house (pointing to the nunnery) in order to be Secured from the intrigues of such adventurers as yourself.. So Saying, he drew his Sword, and bid me defend myself like a man. I drew; but you know, my dear girl, how little I had been used to handle a Sword, having never received above six leflbns from the fencing master. He had therefore every advantage over me, and soon ran his Sword through my body. Seeing me fall, he instantly endeavoured 4 to
\ t
4
, [ 73 ]
to raise me, saying. Imprudent young man, I am sorry for your fate; but you attempted the honour of my Sister, and for that reason forced me to this aft of violence. I heard no • more, nor knew anything that past, till t found myself in bed at my father’s, and him weeping by the flde of ity I offered to Speak, but he begged I would not, telling me my life was in imminent danger unless I kept myself as quiet as possible. I heard him in a low voice say. Fatal error! cruel deception! had my child been educated as he ought to have been, he probably might have killed the villain who has now killed him. I thought to myself, thank God I did not; 1 would not have robbed a brother of luy louifd.s of life to have purchased my own; nay, had I but known wha he was,
I would have made him hear my story,
and
s
[ 74 I
and have declared my pretensions to his sister to be as honourable as herself vas pure : But I took him at first to be a spy Set to watch my motions by my mother, and afterwards fora madman. I how found that, I had been at home Several days since this rencontre, but the loss of blood had deprived me of my fenses till that time.' I was long, my dear Louisa, in a Suffering condition; the wound I, had received was both deep and dangerous; the terrors I felt on your account impeded my cure. I feared the violence of your brother, and dreaded the consequences of your grief, on hearing from him that he had killed me; for folie really thought he had; in.fhort,
I was wretched at being ignorant of
O O
what was become of you. At last, after having miade many fruitless inquiries • about you, my father informed me
'% that
I 75 i
that you was gone to England. I begged leave to write to you, but was peremptorily refused. I continued to be so very ill for a long time, that I was never left alone a inoment, con.
». ^
sequently could find no opportunity ' of writing; till growing a little better,
I was less watched. I wrote a few lines to you, and gave them to the servant who had so often accompanied me to the convent on my visits thither; > he promised faithfully to put the letter into the poll: Some rhyme past, yet I received no answer from you. I wrote again, but still heard nothing' from you; from which cii'cumstances I conceived the fellow had betrayed me to my father; I therefore determined to charge our mutual friend, ' Lady Jane. Carr with a letter for you, as I heard She w’as shortly to return to ■ England; wshen luckily I met her on a
visit,
*1
f 76 ]
visit, the very first time I had made any ' since my illnest. She promised to deliver it into your own hands, and informed me that you was very unhappy on ihy account; and that for her own parr, Ihe had believed me dead. Though so long a time had elapsed since our separation, and I had heard nothing of you, yet I never harboured a doubt of my louifd.s love or fidelity; no, my ■divine girl I am certain will never forget her faithful Francis; an attachment like ours can know no change.
I am now setting off to the South of France, for the recovery Of my health,, as I am still very woak: There I hope to find opportunities of writing to you; if not, I shall certainly return to England as soon as possible. In the meanwhile keep up your spirits, I conjure you, since I Shall most indubitably recover if my Louisa lives and
loves
t
</ f
L 77 I
Lives me. I cannot give you any'furc* direction how to write to me yet, asr I am totally a stranger to the country I am going into; nor do I know the place we, shall flop at, or for how long, a time. I need not tell you how ardently I wish to hear from you, since' '.. are my life, my existence. lguifa,
I have not 'a profpecc in life but vrhat, • is centred in your felicity.' Vfe shall' be happy together, depend upon it; nay, we will, for no power on earth shall disunite our hearts. My father’s^ excess of fondness for me will engage him to be of our party againfc my mother. I flialf put a scheme into 'execution on my arrival in England.. ■ which wall, I doubt not, render us completely happy in the pofteffion oc each other. Adieu, my. ever dear, ever valued friend. lam afraid of' being surprised,, I could write to ■
• you
I '
y '
'[ ys ]
you for ever. You live in my breast, and are always present to my imagination. My Louisa, my life, how my heart pants for the moment, when clasping you to my faithful bosom,
I stiall vow hiyfelf for ever yours!
» 0
/ V '.
Paris. Francis Merton.
/
Lady Lucy, Scott to Miss Bolton.
I Rejoice with you most sincerely, my dear Julia, on the happiness of your friend; pray God send that she and her faithful Merton may meet with no further obstacles to their wishes.. The young Gentleman appears to me to be of a determined disposition, and won’t, I fancy, suffer small difficulties to oppose his union with Louisa. But yet 1 foresee wtth concern, that they will labour under some inconveniences with regard to obtaining Lady
merton’s
\
t 79 ]
merton’s consent to the match; and without that Mr. Boothhy will never suffer his daughter to many him. I hate croaking, and hope I may prove • a false prophetess, as I most ardently wish the mutual happiness of Louisa and her Francis. Your behaviour, my dear, throughout the whole affair, has been above all praise; how delicate, how tender! Affiiftion almost: loses her sting in the arms of such a friend as you have been to Miss Boothhy. '
I am glad my brother is with you; he is a lively companion, and if Ire should choose to make Lady Jane Carr my lifter, (from the description you have given me of her) I shall have no sort of obieftion to it: They have both good, hearts, and if they like one another, will probably be happy. Ned is good-humour perfonisted, and wim,
I dare.
. [ 8o ]
I dare say, make an excellent husdand; besides, we want him married, to keep ' him quiet; so you can’t do better, I think, ' Julia, than to make up the match; and in the mean time I must: (with your permission) transport you to Ivy Castle, where, as the saying is, the devil has danced for sometime,
i ^
occastoned by the following fcrange " adventure.,
A few days after I left Sit Jafpeds, Mr. Hackit went to I'ork races, where a numerous concourse of beaux and belles were assembled as usual.' Among the latter Miss Homes was the most; conspicuous both for beauty, splendour, and equipage; her person being strikingly handsome, and her coach and horses the finest: on the course; or, I I should say, her father’s, for he was
I with her, together with a young girl
I her companion. Mr. Hackit losc his
M ' heart
; *
V
*
^ i '
[ 8. ]
heart at the first glance either of her person or fortune, I will not venture to ascertain which.’ It was universally reported that Mr. Homes was a Gentleman of an immense estate in the West -- Indies; and was now come into the North to purchase some land there, with an intention to build on it, as his ancestors came from that part of Eng' ' Mr. Hackit had the honour of dancing with his flame the first ball night, and the next morning politely waited upon her to inquire .after her health. Mr. Homes was so pleased wdth the young gentleman’s behaviour, that he invited him to dine with him that day, and took him in his coach to the field,, and consequently he danced with the Lady again that night; and soit went on during the whole time of the races; the young couple apparently delighted
vol. II G with
t *2 ]
wtth each other, and the old mafi perfectly charmed with Mr. Hackit, whose circumstances and expeftances he was doubtless no ftraiiger to, as the family is so well known by every individual in the county. vv^hen the public diversions were all over, Mr. Hackit did not leave Tork, as he was determined to pursue his mistress, and,; if possible, obtain her for life. He believed her to be vastly rich, and he very well knew that he should never posies a shilling which he could properly call his own, whilst his father lived,, ' linlefs he married and got a settlement, Upon the occasion he therefore ventured to declare his honourable intentions to the Lady; who, after a proper time, with a modest reluftancy owned her partiality for him; but at the same time said with a flgh, that Ihe durst: tiot flatter him with the hopes of his
ever
/
%
[ 83 ]'
ever obtaining her hand without hef fatlier’s consent, as she knew very well he was determined never to marry her to anything lei's than a Peer: Besides, added she, my fortune will (if he pleases) be so enormously large, that he won’t think your estate at all adequate to it. Mr. Hackit at this period of her discourse, flung himself at her feet in despair, said all the fine things which he is so capable of saying;; was, in short, so melting, Ib moving, that the Lady drowned in tears, told him she could no longer resist his sorrow, and would let him into the real state of her affairs, and then be entirely guided by his advice.
“I have, ■ said Miss Homes, sobbing,
“a small fortune of my own, which was my mother’s, and my father is “obliged to pay it me on my marri“ “” It is only thirty thousand
G 2 pounds,
\
[■ »4 ]
.pounds, which is a mere trifle, when put in comparison with what he may .leave me at his death, though I make no doubt but he will disinherit me if I marry without his consent, which I must do if I marry you, Mr. Hackit, said she (still weeping); and I can never be brought to give my hand to arty other man, since you alone pofiefg, my heart. Fortune is no consideration with me in the choice I have made of a husband; for I honestly declare, I would prefer you with the bare necessaries of life, to splendour, without you. Here she ceased speaking, and Mr. Hackit (I suppose) rummaged his memory for all the scraps of old plays he could possibly recollect, which might express the violence of his passion to the best: advantage. Be that as it may, his bombast wrought so efficaciously on the Lady, that she agreed to a clandestine
t 85 ]
destine marriage, or, in other words, to go off to Scotland with him; stipulating however, that he (hold sirs obtain the consent of Sir Jasper and His Lady, without which she would never be his; as her delicacy and sense of honour could never submit to enter' into a family where she should not be received with pleasure. He promised to write immediately to his parents on. the subject, and was going to take his leave of her for that purpose, when she stopped him, saying, Old people, Mr. Hackit, are generally fond of ihoney; and therefore I will mention a circuniftance to you, which, though it will appear to be of very little importance (I am persuaded) to a man of your generous principles, yet may have its weight with your relations: It is this; that the jewels you have seen me wear, are my own; they were left
G 3 me
[. 86 }
me by mother, and have been, as I am informed, valued at ten thousand pounds. Now I shall certainly take care not to leave them behind me when I go to Scotland, at least, not in my father’s pofreffion. You see, Mr,
- Hackit, continued Miss Homes, the unlimited confidence I place in you, since I put my person and fortune into your hands at discretion, trusting entirely to your honour, that you will make a provision for me after our marriage, as no settlements can be made before that’s over, for fear of a discovery. He assured her, that his fortune and life should be ever at her disposal; and then went away, ’ in order to write to Ivy Cajile. Sir Jasper and his Lady were delighted with the prosped: of securing to their fon a fine income, without being obliged to charge the estate with a jointure; piously determining
t «7 ]
mining to make no settlement on their daughter in law, as after marriage she could not oblige them to it. With these views they readily consented to to the match; Lady Hackit (whose god L Plutus) was prodigiously elated at this event; but not so much so as to make her forget her usual prudence (when interefb was the point in quef tioii); she therefore begged Six Jasper would caution his fon not to be too precipitate in the affair, but to get all possible intelligence about Mr. homes’s fortune before he ventured to marry the'girl; and, in the mean time, she and Sir Jasper both wrote to several of their acquaintance at Tot to inquire the characters, sdc. of their intended daughter in law and her father. They were answeredi by all their friends, That the persons whom they asked after had lived but a very short
G 4 time
t 88 ]
time in the town; that they made a very genteel appearance in the place, and passed for people of considerable fortune; that their conduct was unexceptionable, and that they paid all their bills regularly once a week; adding, they had heard that Mr. Homes was then in treaty for a good estate which was to be sold in the county, and it was supposed would purchase it as soon as the title deeds could be brought from London, and it properly valued.
All this you see, my dear, looked well; so free consent was given to Mr. Hackit, together with a hint, that delays might prove dangerous; upon which the young couple took the opportunity of Mr. Homefs being gone out of ■town in order to meet the parties about the sale of the abovementioned estate, to fly away in a poft chaife and •; four
1^
ft
[ 89 ]
4
four to Scotland. The father, on rriif flng his daughter, made a violent riot, but did not attempt to pursue her, laying, as she had flung herself away, she might take the consequence of it; so ordering his baggage to be packed
ft
up as fall as possible, he took a French leave of the town, and Set out for London. He vowed revenge on the girl her companion, for conniving at her elopement; and declared he would marry again, and return to the West indies. Mr. Hackit and his bride, after Ipending a few days at Edinburgh, arrived at Ivy Castle, where great rejoicings were made upon the occasion; however, the bride appeared to be very much alarmed on hearing of the abrupt manner in which her father had leftshe said, she knew not whither he was gone; if to the Indies, she should find great difficulties in
getting
f
r 90 J
I
getting her money from him; adding, : that she would instantly write to her father’s banker atlondon, who probably could inform her where he was. Everybody in the family joined in jfequefting her to lose no time in the affair. 'She accordingly wrote, and received an answer from one of the banker’s clerks, that his master was out of town, and that Mr: Homes had never been at their house since he went to Torkfhire. In short, time slipped on, and Mn Hackit grew very uneasy about the money; so proposed to his Lady, that they should fet out for London together, in order to find Mr. Homes, who had been traced on the road, andffound to have gone to that
O
place. She consented;; they sat out in Sir jafper’s poil chaife, wtth shired horses. On their arrival a Doncaster, Mrs. nzrdv (who had appeared
[ 91 ]
peared all die day abfoished in thought, ' i and vastly melancholy) now said, after feating herself at the inn, My dear Mr. Hackit, to be plain with you, it is a folly for us to go any farther in pursuit of a man who is not my father; and who, if he was found, neither can, nor would if he could, give me one shilling. I leave you to imagine, my dear, the situation of Mr, Hackifs features at the close of this very extraordinary declaration : He flared, he looked petrified with astonishment; and stammering, aflced his wife, if fly had lost her senses?? replied coolly. No,
Mr. Hackit, what I now tell you is’ the real truth, I can deceive you no longer: I am an unfortunate girl, who has been led 'into doing wrong things from compulsion, never from inclination. I have, however, been welledu ' cated; am not ill born; and you will"
find.
T 92 ]
find, if you treat me well, that I have a grateful heart. He not interrupting her, she went on; “I confess you have great reason to be angry with me for “deceiving you with regard to what“ “fear) was but too essential a motive “in your marrying me, I mean “money — but when you confider, Sir, that by refusing to contribute my “aid to the imposture, I should have “risked the loss both of my honour “and life. Your humanity and good“ “will, I hope, plead my excuse, situated as I was, and lead you “rather to pity, .than blame me, for, “an imposition which I was com“ “to put upon you through “neceshty, not choice. In every “other particular, excepting those I have already mentioned, I acted and “spoke with sincerity, *, I really ** both liked and loved you, Mr.
“hackitp
[ 93 1
hackitp : Here she burst into a flood of tears. Her husband, who had from the beginning of this alarming narration been rendered dumb with amazement, now raising his eyes on her, said in a peremptory tone of voice,
D — n you. Madam, who are you? Her answer to this genteel interrogation you may perhaps have in my next; for I this instant see Lord. malcom’s carriage drive into the courtyard, and my person must follow my heart, which is already flown to meet him: So adieu, my dearest girl, ever yours,
Lewis Farm. lucyscott,
%
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
A Thousand thanks, my dear
Lucy, for your last long letter. • "What a furpriflng story is that of Mr. Hackifs marriage, sfc. I cannot say
that
t
r 94 ]
that I am in the least sorry for the dist appointment of the old folks *, their avarice merited such a punistiment; but as I have never perfectly defined the character of their fon, I half pity him : I say half, because I dare not decide how far he may be worthy of that sentiment, till I know more of his Lady as well as himself. Her I feel for: What a dreadful situation must stie have been reduced to, which could have obliged her to aft so base a part? I am inclined to think well of her, but stiall suspend my judge rnent till I hear the rest of her story. My curiostty will be upon the rack till you give me the sequel of this extraordinary adventure.
Louisa has received another letter from her lover. I know the hand; but as she has never either mentioned her having heard from him, or com'
'
C 95 ]
municated any part of its contents t6 me, I have appeared ignorant of her reception of it: I think however, that I can observe her to be more thoughtful and reserved since this event, thaa fly was for sometime before; though I cannot say fly is less cheerful, yet she seems to be occupied by her own ideas, and is frequently absent in conversation. I confess myself at a loss for the motive why she has never mentioned her having heard from Mr. Merton to me; and though her reserve
^
puzzles me, yet I am perfectly convinced that the reasons fly has for keeping this one only secret from me, are good ones, though I can’t find them out: I shall therefore not diilrefs her, by showing any desire to be acquainted with them. I hate all tyranny ■ in friendship, and am content to‘ love my friends on their own terms; and
will
[ 95 1
will therefore never suppose their con.
. to be wrong, merely because I
don’t understand it. Certain of the
rectitude of their hearts, and propriety
of their actions, as well as of their
'" afleftion. to me, I cannot harbour a
doubt which might be injurious to
them, and perhaps overturn my own.
peace, by creating distrust in my bosom
of that worth in them, which a long
experience had taught me to love and
revere. Now, though I have not
kr\own Louisa any length of time, yet
I think 1 read her heart, and am there
^ \
persuaded that fne cannot (without betraying the confidence her lover has placed in her) show me his letter; and that it is in fast, his Secret which She keeps from me, and not her own: if that is the cafe, Ihe afts perfectly right in the affair.
The
y
I 97 1
• ^
The other morning having left
something which I wanted in the mulic parlour, I quitted my drefflng room (where you know, Lucy, I generally Ipend my mornings alone) in order to fetch it: On opening the door, I disr covered Lady Jane Sitting before the harpsichord, and Lord Tat tonne most devoutly kneeling by her fide, holding one of her hands in his. I laughed at them, and then begged pardon for my unseasonable intrusion; when Lady Jane, recovering herself from the little confusion my Sudden entrance had thrown her into. Said, with a Iprightly air, I not only forgive you, my dear, but thank you heartily for having interrupted Lord Tat tonne in the midst of one of the most rapturous Speeches I ever heard off the theatre. I am vastly glad you have put an end to it, Julia, Sori Swear, I began to catch
vol. II H the
\
0
/
[■ 9^ ]
the infection, and should perhaps, if, I had heard it out, have been as much in the melting mood as his Lordship. Go, said Ihe, pushing him gently from' her, I won’t hear any more of your • passion today, it has discomposed me too much already; and I begin to Sufpeft my heart to be a much greater idiot than I took it for. Here your ’ brother seized her hand, and said a number of soft things upon the occasion: I left them together, in spite of jenny’s ardent entreaties to the contrary. love’s a mighty stupid affair,
'Lucy, when one’s not an aftor in it:
I thought the conversation of your' brother and his' fair exceedingly foolish, not considering that they would;
/ probably have made the same observation on me and my Harry, had they found us so situated. I think with; you, that these young folks are a very 2. proper
¥
■ [ 99 ]
proper match for one another, for which reason I shall take care not to interrupt any of their tete d tete parties for the future; though I fancy things are pretty well fettled between them by this time, considering the complying humour in which I left • Lady Jane, who I dare say, will have no objection to being Lady Tatton, if her friends approve her choice, which there is no doubt but they will. How I envy their fate! how smooth are the paths they tread towards the attainment of their wishes! but I won’t repine — George Boothby arrived here last week; ’tis some years since I saw him •, he’s much altered for the worse, I think •, in short, I don’t like
I
him; there’s a gloomy haughtiness in his manner which disgusts me; how unlike his brother, Lucy, both in person and character!! yet he
H 2 seems
\

ft
[ loo 1
Seems to like me,, for his behaviour k always Softened on my appearance: He even modulates his voice to the tenderest tone whenever he addresses his discourse to me; and that he never fails doing whenever he can, and appears to pay no attention to anybody butme in all companies. Strange! does he think to rival his brother in my heart? Vain hope! insolent presumption! If his father should penetrate into his design, how would his honest: heart glow with anger and resentment 1 but I hope I mifconflrue his conduct. Perhaps he has adopted the manners of the French men, who, they tell me, make love to everything that wears 'a petticoat; I wish it may be lb. His After and he look very shy upon one another; Lady Jane now sees nobody but your brother; and he, in return,, perceives nor listens to any 4 thing
I IGI 1 i
\ ■»
thing but her; foi have a blessed time of it. Louisa has prevailed on her father and mother not to go to town this winter, after having consulted my inclination on that head. I readily acquiesced with her idefires, as I prefer retirement to the noise and
» J
bustle of London; vet I cannot con ceive her motive for this request:, as I am informed by her brother, that Sir Francis, t ady Merton and fon, are expected shortly in England, and will doubtless spend the winter in town. ’tis odd that she should avoid meeting her lover •, but she’s all a mystery at present. George Boothhy told me the other day, that young Merton was perfectly recovered of his wound, as
N
he had been informed by a Gentleman who had seen him in the South of France. I make no doubt, Miss Bolton, said he, but you have been acquainted
H 3 with
%
V
[ 102 ]
j I
with the whole affair by my filler. “I am really sorry that I wounded the young fellow; but upon the whole'
'“is quite as well that the connexion “should have been broke off between “them, as Mr. mertops friends will “probably never give their consent to “the match; and my father is the last“ “on earth wlio would suffer a “a clandestine marriage in his family.” An involuntary sigh escaped me, when I replied, I believe foal! Miss Bolton, why that sigh (said he, looking tenderly at me) sure you don’t still love my brother } I biuflied, he thus continued; if so, how supremely happy is he, and how unworthy of such exemplary constancy from the most amiable of her lex? Unworthy! I repeated, that’s impossible; he will ever be most worthy of all that unabated tenderness - I feel for him; nor
vrilla

/
I
* \
I
[ 103 ]
will it ever be in the power of the mofl; refined malice to hurt him in my opinion. What! he replied, would you persist in loving a rnan, who, faithless to his vows, should have preferred another woman to you The proposition is impofiible, I answered, my face glowing with indignation; but were it as you seem to insinuate, yes, I believe I fnould still love my Harry; at least, lam positively sure I could never love another man. Here I broke from him; he endeavoured to hold me, but in vain; refentiuent gave me strength, and I left him. How base must his mind be, who can thus, through a •motive of felf interest, calumniate his own brother i .but the ill success of his scheme will, I hope, prove his punishment: Nothing less than the ■ conviction of my five senses can ever make me doubt the faith of my be
H 4 loved
[ 104 ]
✓
loved Henry. This George Boothhy has ruffled my spirits and vexed me; I. will therefore lay down my pen, after bidding you adieu, my amiable. Lucy. Yours most truly,
Farnahy Ahhey. J. Bolton.
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
SO, my dear, your curiosity, you Say, is upon the rack till you hear the Sequel of Mrs. Hackifs (or rather miss Jenny Homefs) adventures; but I cannot bring myself to give you this Satisfaction till I have talked for a full hour, about Lord Malcom and myself. Well then; I flew to the chaise, and had he not jumped out of it before I could reach it, should, I really believe, have offered my hand to have assisted him, so foolishly confused and rejoiced was irt the sight
'' of
'- irr
\
\
\ '.
* - »
• ' [ 105 ]
of his Lordship. He perceived the pleasure his presence gave me, and ‘ was impudent enough to tell me foi
thought it would be in vain to deny
O 0.
the fast; so hand in hand we walked
t
amicably into the house, where he was received with great respect, but more pleasure, by all the family. He don’t look well, Julia; he has something which preys upon his mind, I fear; for I frequently hear him sigh when his eyes meet mine, yet I am not cruel.
His father, I suppose, won’t consent to our union; that mufl be the thing.
'— Be it so — he can’t however hinder ' us from loving one another, and ’tis but living single till he is dead; for my part, I am in no hurry to be married — but harlc, he calls, I mufl break off.
It was to desire me to take a walk
• _>
with him, to which I consented. We
'were
r
s
9
\
[ io ],
were alone; he then informed me that he had mentioned his attachment for my ladysnist to his mother, who is (said he) one of the mofl valuable of women, as well as the tenderest of parents. “She was charmed with the choice I had made, but told me, she much feared my father would object to you. Lady Lucy, as being the “daughter of Lord Longfdown, who ‘‘ it seems, once opposed him at an ' election ' in his own county, and “actually flung him out for that session of parliament, though it had coil him upwards of ten thousand d - “pounds in order to be chose for it,
“in the lifetime of his father. This circumstance he has never forgiven: However, my mother observed, that “as you, my dear Lucy, was so truly amiable both in person and mind, 'I' so nobly born, and had so good a
. fortune,
I
I 107 1
“fortune, Ilie thought a little art well ‘‘ applied, might bring the affair to ‘‘ bear; for you know, continued she, “your father has a great knowledge “of the world, and nobody has a “more refined taste, or is quicker at “diftinguishing superior merit than he “is; therefore, if Lady Lucy Scott “could be introduced to his acquaint“ “under another name than her “own, it is ten to one but her beauty “and accomplishments would become “the objects of his admiration and ‘‘ and esteem; and those once gained, “it would be very easy to conquer his “prejudices againll; her family, in ‘‘ favour of a person he had con ceived a high opinion of. For I V know, my dear, that the most ar“ “wish of his heart is your hap“ “and that he would sacri“ “every other consideration to the ‘‘ .attainment of that end. ■ Jt would be
- • I
'“pleafaiit
ft
V
[ 108 ]
^ pleasant enough, said Ihe, finding, if my Lord Kelfo should, from his approbation of your mistress, be the “first to propose her to you for a wife “and I cannot help thinking, ^ frorn “my knowledge of his taste and cha
0 * ■, O
“rafter, that, prejudice apart, she
/ *
“would be the woman of his choice
t
‘‘ for a daughter in law. I have my“ “been frequently in company “with Lady Lucy, whose figure and “behaviour always charmed she; and often in the interior of my heart, I have wished that there had been no “coolnest between our families, as I “thought she would make a most de ‘‘ lireable wife for you in every respect“ “is something so irresistible“ “in her personas well as ‘‘ pleasing in her manner, that one “must be inlenfible not to admire her. But does she love vou well enough,
.... 4 (.A.
“Augujius,
1’ 109 ] •,
. ' '
Augustus, to enter into our scheme 7 “If you think She does, engage her to honour us with a visit at Hopton“
“it (hail be my business to,
^ \
“render the place agreeable to her.
“I will introduce her to my husband“ “being the child of a deceased
O
friend of mine: A letter or two “may pafs between her Ladyship and “me, wrote on purpose to be shown “him. She must, however, necessarily“ “her title for that time, and may “assume any name she pleases; or “I will give her one of some ancient
• ^ • m • ^
“friend of mine, which will perhaps “be better. And now, my dear, af“ “her of my love; tell her how“
“I long to call her daughter;
and that she shall ever find in she a “warm friend, as well as a tender “parent.” Here my Lord Malcom was filent for a rninute, and so was I;
when
N
ft
'
I
[ no 1
ft
wheii looking at me, he said, This, Madam, was the scheme of a fond mother to render her darling fon happy; her affection for an only child hid from her too partial eyes the presumption it would be in me, even to suppose, that the lovely Lady Lucy Scott
A could^ever be brought to condescend
I O
sofar as to comply with this her ro mantick requesh “Nay, I am allo nifhed at my own temerity in daring “to mention it to you; nor could I ever have presumed sofar, had it “not been in, obedience to a parent’s “entreaties. I am sensible that I can“ “live without you, my Lucy, and what will not felf prefervation “urge us to do I answered, that the scheme he had just proposed, was of so extraordinary d nature, as to require a great deal, of consideration before I durst venture to put it in practice:
That
*
[ ^ ^ * J
f
That, however, as I really intended to marry him (in cafe his parents and mine would give their consent), I should confuit Lady Longfdown on the affair; and if .she approved of the plan, I myself Would not object to it. Lord Malcom lost his senses with joy on this declaration of mine,, so favourable ta ■ his wishes. He thanked me on his knees for such condefeending goodness
O O
(as he called it); in short, ’tis no matter to yoii what he said: Let it fushce' that he conftrm.ed me in the opinion,, that he is the most worthy, as well as the most amiable man living, (excepting one, you know, Julia'), I shall return to London shortly, in order to Gonfult with my .mother about this matter; firmly determined to aft in it according to her directions. My father (I think) ought to be acquainted. with it too; I shall not choose to take
^ such
t ” 2 ]
Such a flep without having his approbation; and yet I long to go to hop tonne Hall, Julia; because, where we really wish to please, we Seldom fail in the attempt. His from this reason that I am vain enough to suppose that the father of my lover will not dislike me. If. I Succeed, then my Malcom and I stiall be happy; if not, why, we are but where we were. Let us suppose even that the world should be let into the Secret, they can only Say “that “1 took great pains to get a husband“ “had not Succeeded " and probably the men will not be fond of having So forward a girl for a wife : Be it So; for as my resolution is fixed as fate, never to marry, unless to Lord Malcom, I shall be glad rather than mortified, at the being released from the persecution of the rest of his Sex. The good-natured and rational part of
the
t
ft
't ^ *
. * V
N V ‘
[ ri ]. •
the world, I flatter myself, will say, we deserved each other; and that my Lord Kelfo behaved like a capricious old fool, in objefting to so eligible a match for his fon, as the daughter of Lord Longfdown; and at their tri' ' alone I desire to be tried. '
In my next I will continue theshif' tory of Ivy Castle; in the mean time, give my kind love to my brother; I wish him and his fair one happy; they - will (I dare say) meet with no opposition to their desires from either of ' ■ their families.
My poor penitent Susan is much recovered; I hope time will entirely reconcile her to her fate. I told her this morning, that my brother, I fancied, would shortly be married'to Lady Jane Carr, she answered, colouring, that she was mofl sincerely glad to hear his Lordship had made So proper ' Vol. II I a choice;
1
1
C 114 ]
a choice; and sighing,, May they be both as happy in each other, as my wishes and prayers would make them!
I observed she looked serious whilsc she ipoke *, but she shed no tears at the news,
. nor appeared the least dejected all the, rest of the day., I was greatly pleased to find her so rational on the occasion.
Adieu, my dear juua\ the behaviour of Miss Boothby surprises me in many respects: Time will probably discover her 'motives' for being so mysterious. don’t minditgeorge booth by, my dear; ’tis easy to perceive that he is, or wants to be, his brother’s rival; for which reason. I would not believe a word he said. God bless
you, my sweet friend : Write to me
\
in Grofuenor square, as. I purpose being there some part of next week. I grieve at your intention of palling the winter in the country, however, I will,
ip
[ II ]
possible, contrive to pay you a visit there. 'Tis an age since I last saw you.
Yours, most truly,
Lewis Farm. Lucy Scott.
I
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
IT is so long since I wrote to you, i my dear Lucy, that I fear you have accused me of either idleness or neglect; I trust however, that you will pardon my silence, when you have read the following account of what has hap pened at the Abbey.
About ten days after I received your last favour, and was aftualiy preparing to answer it, in order that it might meet you in town, George Boothhy said, he had absolute business to transact at Durham, for vrhich reason he informed us that he ffiould Jet out for that place the day following. Lord
I 2 Tat tonne
/
)
[ ii ]
Tatton proposed going part of the 'Way with him on his road to his father’s, and Lady Jane was to leave us in a few days. On the morning of the departure of our beaux, Louisa observing me to be busy writing, and Lady Jane employed in drawling a better likeness of her lover than that which I formerly mentioned to you, said to her mother (as Ihe has since told, me) that feeing we were so engaged, she would, with her per shiffion, borrow the chariot for a few hours, and take a little airing; when she could call and ash her old acquaintance Nancy Jones, how she did. Mrs. Boothhy, pleased to hear her propose any scheme wshich might contribute either to her heakh or amusement, freely consented. She therci fore ordered the chariot to be. got ready; and in the mean time vent
V into
\
0
t
ft
I 117 1
into Lady jane’s room, where, after, staying a quarter of an hour, Ihe came into mine, with her hat and. cloak oh,
I ashed her if she was going out? Sh answered with a sigh“ “my dearr “eft Julia, I will take a little ride to - “the parfon’s, the exercise will do me “good, ” What, by yourself?? I, No, no, that must not be, I will go along with you. By no means, (she replied with eagerness) I know you love to spend .your mornings alone, foi insist upon not diftuishing you *, wlfeh, kissing my cheek, ffie flew out of the room like lightning. I thought, y/hen she was gone, that there was something agitated and queer in her behaviour; but, as the whole of it had been for sometime past rather enigmatical, I continued writing, and, thought no more of it. This was about ten o’clock in the morning; at
I 3 ', twelve
I
4
[ n8 ]
twelve the chariot returned, with a meltage by the footman, that Miss Boothhy dined at Parson ‘jones's, and Should not return till the evening. As she vas fond of Miss Jones, we were not surprised at her staying there to dinner. About Six in the evening, Mrs. Boothhy ordered the horses to be put to, in order to fetch her daughter home; when Lady Jane proposed that she and I Should go in it, to accompany Louisa bade, by way of a ride. I agreed to the proposal. We were Scarce drove from the door, before Lady Jane said, My dear Miss Bolton, we shall not find Louisa at Parson Jones's. No! I replied, with some emotion, where is she then? “In the “arms of her lover, Mr. Merton, I “suppose, by this time.” Softly, cried she, catching me by the arm (as she perceived me much alarmed at what
she
\
»9 ]
she had Said) this affair was no con
/
of mine, I knew nothing of it till she was gone, when I found this billet (showing me a bit of paper)ion my table where I had been drawing; nor did I perceive it till I went to dress, and was putting away my papers. Here it is, said she, giving it me. 1 opened it hastily, and read as follows :
“My dear Lady Jme, I conjure “you by our long friendship, if you find this note soon after I am gone,
“not to communicate its contents till
V t
“the evening. If on the contrary,
‘‘ you should not have perceived it till “an hour or two after my departure,
“rest assured that I shall then be out “of the reach of any inquiries about “me. I don’t deceive you, my dear;
“you may depend upon the truth of “what I stiy. Be so kind as to inform
I 4 “my
[ 120 ]
“my dear Julia, that in one of her “dreffing boxes she will find a letter, “which will, I trust, in some measure“ “to the friend of my heart, “for the mysterioufnefs of miy pre“ “as vrell as late behaviour to
I
“her. I hope soon to rejoin my dear“ “Lady Jane, and the rest ot my “valuable friends; till when, I beg “your Ladyship and they will put the “most favourable construction on my “conduct. I am in haste, ever your “obliged and faithful, Cfr.” In the postfcript was wrote, “don’t give “Julia any hint of my having wrote “to her before the evening.”
I was petrified with astonistiment on reading this note, when Lady Jane roused me by saying“ “was in order “to have an opportunity of speaking“ “you alone, that I proposed our “fetching Louisa. I tried all day to
“catch
'. / [ >21 ]
catch an occasion of talking to you,
“but the company who dined with us
r
“prevented me; and then I was afraid ‘‘ of the old folks suspecting some“ “I suppose, because I was con“ “that I had a secret to disclose“ “you.” Good God! (I exclaimed)' how shall I ever break this extraordinary event to her fond parents .f But it must be done, so we had better return,
, home immediately. So saying, I pulled the string, and bid the coachman turn 'about, and'drive back as fast as possible;; that in her letter she might perhaps have traced out the road in which she would have me proceed in this unhappy affair. We soon arrived at the Abbey, where meeting Mr. Boothhy, he expressed his surprise at our quick return, aflcing, where ' Louisa was I answered, that we had met a servant, who told us, that a
neighbour
/
. • ^
[ 122 ]
neighbouring Lady would bring her home in half an hour in her coach; So saying, I quitted him, and flew up flairs in search of the letter, which I soon found; the contents here follow.
“My ever dear, ever valued friend;
. “I know the goodness of your heart,
“and therefore flatter myself that you will undertake the difficult talk of *' “reconciling my worthy parents to a
“daughter, who has apparently at ‘‘ least, forfeited all right to their af“ “But you, Julia, who know “the history of my life, will not, I “hope, suspect me capable of devi ‘‘ ating from the paths of honour. “No, my dear girl, however strong “appearances may be against me, do, I conjure you, become the bond for “the discretion of your friend, and “boldly assure my family, that I will. “justify the step, I have taken to
both
I
I
[ ’23 ]
“both their and your satisfaction in' y a very Short time; I will then also“ “my reasons for the conceal“ “of my designed elopement,
. “even from you, my Julia. I am “not at liberty to be more explicit at “present, my next shall entirely clear “up the affair; till when, I implore “you to sooth and comfort my dear “father and mother, by the strongest “afllirances that I am in the most “respectable company, and under the. “protection of an unexceptionable “Lady of their acquaintance; and “that I stiall soon return to Farnahy “Ahhey, there to ash their pardon and “bleitmg on my knees. And you,
“my Julia, think candidly of my late “reserved behaviour to you; my heart “suffered more xkauyours did, in aft“ “such a part; but I will explain “it all wshen we meet;, till then, God
“bless[
[ ]■
J
“bless and preserve you all, praiys • “your obliged and affectionate, ctcf
This letter, you see, my dear, was no less mysterious than her conduct. 1 put it into my pocket, and with my legs tottering under me, went down into the parlour.' Mr. Boothhy, on feeing me enter the room, said, my dear Miss bouon, Louisa is not come ’ home yet. She won’t come home tonight, I replied with a serious air. What do you mean, my dear Madam cried my guardian. Why Sir, I answered, all girls are not so patient under restraint and contraditstion as you have found me to be; the paf sions of young people are not always regulated by the prudence of the old ones. Your daughter had fixed her
'O
affections on a deserving young Gentleman, who is her equal in every respect, and a proper match on both
'Sides;
t 125 1
iides; but his friends not being reasonable upon the subject, on in other words, not approving their plan, the young folks have (I suppose) taken a trip to Scotland together, in order to •put an end to all disputes on that head. However (continued I with a more serious air) vfxerever Louisa is gone,
I will be her bond, that She has acted as prudently as the circumstances of affairs would admit of. They did not interrupt me; I believe, amazement had tied their tongues; when Mrs. Boothhy sighed out, O my lost child! and sunk on the floor. I raised her •, Mr. Boothhy looking sternly at me; said, if you was the girl’s confidant in this affair, Miss Bolton, you ought in honour to have informed either her * mother or me of it. I think I ought,
I replied coldly. Mrs. Boothhy, who was novr recovered, and had probably
heard
[ 126 ]
heard what had past, looking on her her husband, Said in a faint vtece, is it possible, my dear, that you can suspect our amiable ward (after the ^ numberless proofs we have had of her prudence as well as friendship to us and ours) of being accesfory, to a scheme which mull for ever ruin the reputation of our child, and consequently destroy our future peace? I made no answer to this obliging reo
O
proach addressed to my guardian; but he caught my hand, and wiping his eyes at the same time, said“ ““you forgive me, Miss bouon, in “pity to the distraftion of a distrested “parent? I knew not what I was fay“ “just now *, but my heart most “honestly abjures every sentiment“ “can in any manner injure the “lustre of your character, or the rec“ “of your mind.” I afllired
him
■ ^
\
\
[ 127 ]
him that I was not in the least; offended! at anything he had said, for two obvious reasons, •, firll. (and perhaps, the strongest) was my perfect innor cence as to what he accused me of; and the second, because I thought his present situation truly pityable. I begged they would both listen to wfiat I knew of this affair *, and then produced louifd.s letters to Lady Jam' and myself, which were evidences sufficient for the justification of us, both, had we stood in need of them. The old folks fei^med to receive some degree of comfort from their daughter’s positive assertion, that she wa? in good company, and that of her own sex too, and asked me my opinion on the matter. I answered, that I would be responsible for the veracity of my friend *, and advised them to suppose the best,, and make themselves as easy
as
. ■ ^
[ 128 j
as they could, till they heard from, her,
- which I apprehended would be in a
V JL uk. ^
'' short ti ihe. They embraced me with
tears again, saying, Lwas their only support, their comforterj sdc.
I would indeed, Lucy, lay down
- my life to serve these two worthy people. My heart actually bleeds for them. Lady jane leaves us tomorrow, which I am sorry for, as she is
. > really nottenly a lovely, but a good girl, and sympathises in the diilrefs of her friends, with a feniibiiity which
does her honour. Last night when we
■
were retired in order to go to bed, she
* - O '.
came into the room, and feating her.. said, Miss Bolton, I am persuaded that louifd.s reasons for this elopement, will, when known, shilici ently justify her conduct; hut, as I am going to London, where I shall probably hear this affair frequently men.
.
/
0
[ '29 ].
tioned, I beg you wpuld be kind enough to instruct me how to behave
O * '
and what to say on the occasion I' shiil follow your directions with exafti tude; I mean (you may be certain) to ' serve my friend; but by Stumbling on in my unthinking way, I may perhaps injure where I wish to defend. “You are, my - dear, much wiser than I “am, so do counsel me how to aft;
“for as I was upon the.fpot when she
« ' - J. •
“went away, I shall be ashed a thou' '
“impertinent questions about “her.” I answered. Do yourself jiss tice, Lady Jane, and know from me, that the goodness of your heart can only be equalled by that of your head; for which reason your own judgement will guide you better than I can. However, since you desire it, 'my opinion is, that it will be the best way for you never to start the subject; and when. vol. II 'K other
0
[ >3° ]
other people introduce it, only do justice to the character of your friend in general terms, and leave event to do the rest; but above all things, avoid informing any one of your suspicions that llie is gone off with Mr. Merton, left it should reach the ears of Sir Francis and his Lady, by which means you might inadvertently defeat louifd.s purposes; and if we keep her secret, I fancy few people will be able to guess at the name of her lover. Lady Jane thanked me for my advice in the most aimiable, tender, and polite terms; at the Same time begging the continuation of my friendship. I easily promised what has long been out of my power to refuse to her inerit. She went away this morning; so now I am quite alone, but will Send tomorrow for Nancy Jones to keep me company, or rather to walk about wdth ■ me. Here
[131 ]
r
Here I left off writing, nor could resume my pen for sometime on account of Mrs. Boothby's being taken dangerously ill, owing, as they suppose, to the perturbation of her mind. During the violence of her disorder, my anxiety for her health obliterated all other ideas from my head. I have pretty near exhausted my strength by my close attendance on her; but I am more than paid by the ecstatic joy her recovery gives me. Words can never paint the lively gratitude of this estimable pair for my attention and care of Mrs. Boothby. Alas! I am still, and ever shall be, infinitely their
ft
debtor. What do ■ I not owe them! When Mrs. Boothhfs disorder was at the crisis, She thought herself a dying, and we all believed her to be so; fly begged her husband to consent to my
K 2. union
[ 132 ]
union with Harry. I could not then join my entreaties to hers; felf confi deration was totally absorbed in my feniibiiity of her sufferings, and the dread of loling so valuable a friend. He appeared moved at her petition in that interesting moment, when death seemed to quiver on her lips, and answered, “Thou beloved partner of “my heart, if Harry deserves Such a treasure, time may perhaps bring it “about.” This dear parent (for Such, she has ever been to me) is, thank
s. '
God, out of danger. Her Son George is expected at the Abbey in a Sew days.
I am Sorry for it; he is not the Sort of man I like, and less so, now his lister is gone, whose flight he knows nothing. of, as his father feared the violence of his temper. He must know it however; I suppose, on his arrival here.
Adieu,
I
ft
t
[ '33 ] ■,
Adieu, I am not well, but ever most affectionately yours,
"Farnahy Abbey. Julia Bolton.
»
P. S. I had forgot to tell you that. Miss Jones never saw Louisa on the day She left us., The coachman says, that when they were near the village, fly bid him ftbp, ' saying“ “will get out and walk “now, for 1 see Mr. and Miss
I.
. “are coming to meet me;
“so do you, Thomas, (Ipeaking “to the footman) return with the “chariot to the Abbey, and let it fetch me again in the evening,.
o o'
as I shall dine at the parsonage.” the servants say, they saw her trip lightly over the meadow, and join some company, which they supposed to be the Parson and his daughter. This is all the
K 3 infor
ft
i /
[ 134 ] •
information the fellows could
■ /
give us. I wonder we don’t hear from her, as I know her heart is
I
too good to be capable of enjoying ease, whilst she is the cause of pain to others. Adieu.
ft
'Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
My dear Julia, what an amazement has your last kind letter thrown me into! Miss Boothhy, the melancholy, gentle Louisa, has venture to take a step, and that without consulting any of her friends too, which would have startled my wild ladyship even to have thought of. But these languishing girls, I tell you, my dear, are the least to be trusted;; don’t dissipate the same quantity of animal spirits upon trifles, that we. - more sprightly ones do; but bottle, them
/ •
'[ >35 ]
them all close up for the use of thdr lovers, in whom alone they live, move, and have their being. Weil, I heartily wish she may be happy; ’tis an irregular step to be sure, which she has taken; but we do not know the motives which induced her to take it, so must,, suspend our judgements till we have heard what she has to urge in her own justification. In the meanwhile, I guess from my own impatience to know more'of this affair, what • yours must be for the continuation of Mrs. Hackifs story, whom I left (if I remember right) upon the point of answering to her hushand’s interroga
to. O
tion of Who are you? My name, Ihe replied, you know, was Homes; my father was governor of Madrafs in the Eaji jndies: My sister and self were born there; and when we were about five or six years of age; my mother
K 4 (who
/
\
[ 13^ ]
(who was a German, and of the Romish religion) proposed the sending us to a convent in France for our education. After many arguments urged, arid many persuasions used, my father agreed to it, on condition that we should be suffered to retain the protestant faith, in which he had taken care to have us instructed as far as our years would admit of. Letters were accordingly wrote to a French banker of my father’s acquaintance at R —, desiring him to seek out a proper nunnery for us, and to write the particu i iars as soon as possible. He did so; and everything, being fettled according to his request about our pensions, Wc. he took our passage in a French vessel bound for Ford ldrient, when he and my iriother, after having taken a very affectionate leave of us, put my lister and I on board the ship, accompanied
/
> I
[ 137 ]
V
companied by an old governess, who was a Frenchwoman; and on whose prudence and care they could rely. This woman had taken us from our black Tmrfes, and was now delighted, to meet with an opportunity of returning to her native country, without its colling her anything; besides, she was really fond of us children. I remember very little of the voyage, as I was younger than my filler. On our arrival at the port, rriy father’s ■ friend met us, took us and our baggage from on board the ship, and conducted us and our governess to an inn" in the town, where we lay that night. The next day we took a tender leave of the old Frcnclrdocman, who fet out early in the morning for Paris, and then got into a coach with our guide the banker, which carried us in a few hours to the convent, where we were
received
f. \
\
4
• \
. V ^. ' ■ ■ •
't 138 ]
received with pleasure, and treated with the utmost good-humour and respect. We were there taught every accomplishment which was judged northeast, celtary for young Ladies, who (it was supposed) would one day or other be poftelted of immense fortunes, as my father had no children but us. The
N
nuns piously endeavoured to make me learn by heart the catechism, which, in. their religion, is really a volume; the dryness of the subject, added to the enormity of its length, made me resolutely refuse having anything to do with it, and more especially as I then recollected my father’s strict injunctions, that we Should not practice the religion they were of. I knew not wshat he meant at the time when he charged me never to become a Roman Catholic; but I made use of his • orders now, to avoid a talk which
., was
t
t 139 ]
was not in the lease suited to either, my genius or taste. My lifter, who. had more mildiiefs in her composition than I had, was easier wrought upon, and consequently paid an implicit obe ' dience to all their desires; by which means they at last prevailed on her, when she was about fifteen, to take the veil. I saw her make her procession, with a grief which no language can express' ', was half tempted to ■ have followed her example, in ' order to put it out of the power of our parents ever to have separated us; but Ihe herself soon advised me to the contrary. Her vows once made, the nuns flung off the malk they had so long worn in order to entrap her; and novr assumed the rigid rod of monastic tyranny, which is frequently used.. mercy on the younger nuns, by their seniors,, order to bend them
early
(
I
r„ HO ]
early to their yoke. Ali their caresses and insinuating arts were now laid aside, no indulgence was allowed; and my filter was kept up to the rigour of her order. Thus deceived ' herself, she omitted no arguments which might conduce to the keeping me from falling into the snare. We heard generally once a year from my father, and wrote to him as often, but I w’^as absolutely forbid mentioning a word about my filter’s intention of. taking the veil to him; and as our, letters were all read by the superior,
I could not do so without her knowledge. About this time a vefiel arrived from India, in which we had letters; my father informed us in them, that he was fettling his affairs at last: wkh the company, and would, as soon as circumstances would admit, come to France, and carry us with
2 him
»
[ 141 ■ ]
him to England, where he intended to spend the remainder of his days with his beloved children, whose long absence from him had made him mifeiv able. ■ He had not then (you’u observe) heard that my lister was a nun. Some time after this we had another letter from him, in which he says, he cannot get a passage with his effects (which were very considerable) in a French ship that season; and should therefore embark on board the first: engujh one he could meet with homeward bound; promising not to stay in London above a mionth, before he came to France to retch my filter and I. In all these letters, as well as those which had preceded them, except the twm or three first;, wiiich were wrote after our departure from Mad tass, he never mentioned my mother. My, sister and I grew uneasy at. his
Silence
»
[ >42 ]
Silence on that head, and began to fear that she was dead; especially as we never had omitted Sending our duty to her in every letter we wrote rny father, and he eonftantly persisted in taking no notice of her. At last I resolved to write to our friend the banker, to inquire if he could Satisfy our doubts on that point. He answered me, that he believed some disagreeable events had happened in Mr. homes’s family, which had occasioned a separation between him and his Lady some years ago; adding, that he knew my mother had long since left the Indies, but was ignorant of where she was gone. This piece of intelligence gave great affliction both to my Sister and Seif. A year had now passed without our having, heard either of, or frohn, my father; when one day the banker Sent me a letter from shim,
dated
1
\
\
[ 143 ],
dated England. He tells me, he is ^ just landed; inveighs bitterly against: my filler’s disobedience to his posttive orders; renounces her for ever as his child; and adds, “It will, however,
“be the better for you, Jenny, as you “must now posies my whole fortune,
“which is really immense; so that,
“child, you will on my death be,
“perhaps, the richest; heiress in the “three nations.” (My father was born in Ireland). He then told me, that he Should lodge at Mr. wilker’s, in such a street in London, as that .Gentleman had been his agent and correspondent for many years •, adding, that as soon as he had left his affairs safe in wilker’s hands, he would immediately fet off for France, in order to fetch me. I was impatient to see him (as you may suppose, Mr. Hackit), however, one month, six weeks passed, yet still I heard
nothing
'/
'[ H] ] '

nothing of my father; at last I wrom, to him, but received no answer; when one day, as I was afflicting myself. from the most dreadful apprehensions about my father, I was told that our ' friend the banker ashed to speak with me in the parlour; I flew, rather than run to ineet him. On my entrance he accosted me with the most dejected countenance, saying, he vas very sorry to be the messenger of ill news; but that he had received a letter from my father’s friend the merchant, in whose house he had reflded in London, informing him, “that Mr. Homes died “suddenly a few days after his arrival ‘‘in England', and, that in confider“ “of the orphans, he had made the strictest inquiries after his ef “fefts, but to no purpose;; hav“ “been able hitherto to find out “where he had placed his money, cstc.
“there /
[ h5 ]
“there being found in his pockets, “only twenty guineas, his watch, and “some other trifles, but no papers “which could let them in the least into “the state of his affairs *, adding, that “the money he had about him was ' “barely sufficient to defray the ex“ “of his funeral, ” and so com eluded his letter.
I was thunderstruck at this news. The banker went on, “Now, Miss,
“I am afraid there has been some foul “play in this matter; I'would there“ “advise you to go immediately “over to England, and try, what can“ “done in order, to recover your “fortune *, for that your father had a ‘‘ very large one, both I and hundreds.
“more know to be a certainty; and “you. can’t stay here, my dear, said“ “as I have but one hundred “pounds of yours in my hands; fp
vol. II L “take
• ♦
\
*
i >46 ]
)
take my advice, pack up your things; I will discharge your pension, ‘‘ and what other little debts you may “have, and See you properly con“ “to England?’ What my feelings were on his finishing this harangue, you may easier guess than I can describe;; is the knowledge of
^ O
them necessary to my story, which I much fear you have already thought too long. Hackit, who took all she Said down in shorthand, made no reply; and she went on. As soon as I could speak, I told him, that I would follow his advice, as I had now no other friend in the world but himself. The poor man wept and took his leave. I went instantly to my fifter’s cell, where I narrated to her, as well as I was able, all -1 had just heard. She was not so much affected at the fiiock ing news as I was, but she was greatly
so;
[ h7 ]
so. She agreed with our friend the banker, that I ought to go to England. and endeavour to recover my father’s effects, if possible; requesting me ardently, to allow her a pension in cafe I succeeded. This petition was neediest, as I loved her too Sincerely, not to confider her interest; as nearly as my own. The next morning 1 quitted the convent: The parting of myself and sister I shall never forget; the remembrance of it rends my heartstrings at this moment; (here ffie wept bitterly), Xo ffiorten my story ' as much as poitible, 1 arrived safe in England', went in a stagecoach to London, then got into a hackney one,, and ordered it to drive to the merchant’s house where my. father died.
I knew not one single soul in England. Do you judge of my situation. Sir: The coachman knocked at the door;
L 2 a girl
\
m.. J
[ Hst'j
a girl opened it; (the same, Mr.. Hackit, which you saw with me at tofk). 1 alked for Mr. vvilker\ Ihe replied, staring. Why, Lord, Marne, he is dead, donh: you know that? why, he cut his own throat last week; I 'thought everybody had heard of it. But, continued Ihe in the Same breath,
. ril call my mam, and She’u speak to you herself— — She went: I was ready to saint at what I had heard, when a great masculine woman, with a face as red as fire, and as broad as, a warming pan, advanced. Saying, .Dray, young woman, who do you. want? I answered, Madam, beohari table enough tostister.me to walk into
O
the house for a moment, and give me a glass of water, when I will (if I ■’ihould live till then tell you my business. She astisted'rhc coachman in: getting me into the house, where I. ' ' instantly
[ 149 1
J
■instantly fainted away. On,, coming to myself again, I told the woman who I was; begging to be informed of every circumstance relative to my father’s death. She replied coolly,
“Why, really Miss, I knew very little of the Gentleman, he was a per“ “stranger to me; but to be sure“
“suddenness of his death frighted “me shockingly; for he was talking, to poor dear Mr. ivilker', when all at once he dropped down dead on “on the floor. Aye, it was bad luck “that brought him to our house, •, “Mr. Wilker was so hurt at the loss of “his friend, that he never held up his ‘ head after, poor dear soul; and at “last made away with himself.” Here she put her handkerchief to her eyes, to prevent my observing that she did not cry..,
L 3 i re
/
[ ]
I related to her the story of my life, and then ventured to entreat her to suffer me to stay in her house that night, as I had neither friend or acquaintance in London; saying, the next day I would go to the India house, as I had been advised to do, in order to find out (if possible) somebody there who had known my deceased father, and who. might, perhaps, give me some information about the effects he (must certainly) have left behind himi, either in England, or at Madrafs. These last words of mine seemed to have softened her features, tend Ihe said. Poor young Lady! you shall never be at a loss for a lodging whilst I have a house, for the sake of my poor deaf husband, who loved your father, Miss, as if he had been his own natural brother. Your husband. Madam, said I, are ypu the widow of Mr. Wilker? Yes, that I
am,
{ ]
am, to my sorrow, Ihe replied, (again applying her handkerchief to her eyes) for he was, to be sure, one of the best of men. I thanked her for the humanity Ihe had shown me: She nodded, saying. Be comforted, child; I am, thank God for it, left' very well in the world; and while I have it, you shall never want. I fell at her feet on my knees in a transport of gratitude; she raised me, and calling for a glass of wine, insisted on my drinking it. She then ordered my baggage to be taken out of the coach, and discharged it. I, now began to breathe a moment from my sorrows, for the first time stnce I had received the news of my father’s death. To be protested' by a woman of fortune and reputation; the widow of my father’s friend; and to have her house for my home, were circumstances
L 4 which
E 152 ]
•which afforded me the highest; satisfaction and pleasure; and the more so, as the fear of finding neither of them in a Ilrange country, had been the objects of my greatest: terror. The house was a good one, and well furnistied j I was put to bed in the best apartment, when Mrs. Wilker wishing me a good night, begged I would compose my fpiritsj and rely upon her friendship. I did so with confidence; because I had no other reliance on earth, and I knew nothing of the world, having passed my life (as you know) immured in a convent. The next day at dinner, a well looking Irish of about forty was introduced to me, as the brother of Mrs, Wilker : 'This man you knew, Sir, by the name of Homes, when he passed for my father at York. He offered
his services to me in the civilest man'
'■ /

ft
[ 153 ]
V
ner, saying, it would be very improper for so pretty a young Lady as I was, to go to the India house among a pack of men; and therefore he would, if I pleased, make all possible inquiries about Mr. Homes and his effects, whenever I would honour him with my commands. I thankfully accepted of his obliging proposal, and after dinner told him (what probably he was better acquainted with than I) all I knew about myself and family. He took the heads of what I said down upon paper, promising that he would wait upon the Eaft india directors the yery next morning. I now began to look about me a little; and, confined as my experience of the world had sheen, yet I could not help remarking that Mrs. Wilker had not either the manner or appearance of a Gentlewoman. Her language I covild not I ■ then
9
«
[ ss4 ]
then criticise, as I Spoke very bad engujh myself, and understood nothing of its elegancies. I had, indeed, preserved the little I knew when I left India, by conversing sometimes with my lister; but that cannot be supposed to have been a great deal. Since I was not much turned of six years old when I left Madrafs. Her visiters too, appeared to be of the same class;; I thought the English women were possibly all alike, very ill-bred, and awkward. In a few days Mr. Fletcher (for so the brother of my benefaftress then called himself) informed me, that he had seen all the Eaft india directors, who had with one voice assured him, that they knew nothing of Mr. Ilomefs affairs; which they were much concerned at, as he had defrauded the company of a large Sum of money, which they should be very glad to recover.

I 155 ]
I
<
ver, if they could by any means find out his executors. On hearing this,
(said the man) you may be Sure, Miss,
I took care not to mention you; because I was afraid of bringing you into trouble, as, should they know, you to be Mr, Hotnes's daughter, they would certainly fling you into gaol.
My God! cried I, (joining my hands in a supplicating posture, and looking at Mrs. Wilker) protest me, my dear Madam, from such a dreadful event. She smiling answered. Be but a good girl, and foilov/ my directions and advice, and I will take care that they shall do you no harm. I promised to be all obedience to her will, terrified at the idea of a prison, withr out either friend or. fortune to assist me. Alas! Mr. Hackit, (said the poor girl) wfiat a situation was mine! I now endeavoured by my assiduities and attention
\
«
f 156 3
itention to please Mrs. ivilker, to repay (as far as I was able) the obliga -- tions I owed her. She was continually employed in looking over papers, and in company with men, whom .1. took to be lawyers, while I worked for her, and studied how to make myself,, in the house. Some months pasted away in this manner, I Seldom' fleeing anybody, and never going abroad. I had wrote to my lister on my being established (as I thought so ■ well) at Mrs. Wilkeds; and she, in return, expressed her joy at my being under the protection cf so flvorthy a
*
woman (as her humanity to me) bespoke her to be. One day as I was ’ .fitting alone at work, the girl, whom Mrs. Wilker called niece, but who always called her miamma, or mami came into the room, and among other ■things, Said, Pray, Miss, are you really
the ■
L '57 I
• the daughter of the Gentleman who died here? Yes, my dear, answered I, I am. But, replied she, his name was not like yours, for they called him Mr. Mac Allen. No, my dear, said I, you must be mistaken, for his name was Homes. O! but I am not, cried the girl, for I know very well what I I say. The first opportunity that offered, I took occasion to tell Mrs.. Wilker what her niece had told me. She coloured, and seemed confused at what she heard; however, recovering •herself, The girl has lost her fenses, I believe. Said she, for I never heard of such a name in my life before, .as Mac Allen; and then changed the conversation, and made no farther reflections upon this subject at that time; but I have frequently since. The next day, Betty (for that was the girl’s name) (aid to me,, I won’t tell you anything

O
\
I
t 158 ]
“thing more, Miss, for you go and
“tell it again; I have been finely
“Scolded for what I said to you yes— —
« /
“I begged her pardon, and promised to be more discreet for the future. Not long after this, Mrs. Wilker and I being alone, she’ began to talk of the obligations I owed her, and of my total dependence on her bounty, expatiating largely on the expense I was to her; and then abruptly ashed me, what 1 intended to do by way of establishing myself in. life? I started as from a dream, at this unexpected question, and answered; that I was an unhappy orphan, who had no other dependence in the world, excepting on her charity and benevolence. She replied. All that's very vrell, child, and I will do all in my power for you, if you will do something for yourself; but I am not rich,
(conf

J'
[ 159 ]'
(contined she) besides, I intend shortly to return to my own dear country, which is Ireland, and I cannot afford to take you along with me; however, there is a neighbour of ours, who is worth a plum, he has Seen you, and is in love with you; if therefore you'll be reasonable and accept of his offer, you may be made a gentlewoman of at once, and live like a Lady all the rest of your days. I was astonished at this difcourl’e; and the more so as I had never yet paid any attention to your sex, nor had matrimony ever once entered my head. I replied however, that I should always look upon it as my duty to obey her commands. She slapped me on the back, saying, I was a very good girl, and should feel the sweets of my obedience. A few days after this conversation, an ill made, awkward looking man, of
about
t ^
«
[ io ]
about Sixty, in a large bob wig, was' introduced to ine by Mrs. Wilker: He advanced with a familiar air, saying“ “this the young woman ?” On being answered in the affirmative,
*
he stared me in the face, and then attempted to salute me. I drew back, and own I was ffiocked at the impertinent ease of his address. Mrs. Wilker soon retired. I was petrified with terror at being left alone with this savage. He however placed himself next me; took my hand; told me I was handsome;; how old I might be; and then said“ “you, child, I want “a girl; and if you are wise, you’ll accept of the. proposals I am going “to make you: I will keep you as “fine as a queen, as long as I like “you •, and when I do sono longer,
“I will settle fifty pounds a year on “you for your life; and if we have.
“any
ft
!
I -
[ ii ]
f
“any children, I will take care of / “them.” Enraged at this insult, I rose' in a fury, called him insolent monster; and, in Spite of his utmost efforts to detain me, run out of the room
^ • I
my heart bursting with Ihariie, resentment, and humiliation. When I saw Mrs. ivilker, She made many apologies for having exposed me to such an affront as I had just met with; but this file did not do, till from my manner of behaviour to the wretch, Ihe was convinced that her scheme would never be brought to bear. Some little
- o
time ekpfed after this frightful event, without Mrs. wilker’s ever touching on the subject; when one evening Mr. Fletcher brought to our hioufe a young Gentleman to supper. He was dressed in regimentals; his figure vas engaging, and his behaviour polite, and insinuating to the last, degree; he paid
vol. II M me
« •
\
\
I 162 ]
me more compliments with his eyes than tongue. I was the more struck with this young man's manner and address, as he appeared to me to be the only creature I had seen since I came
#
to England, who had any resemblance to those I had known and conversed with in France. I therefore found myself at ease in his company, and thought I understood him better than I had done anybody for a great while pash His (sentiments, and the manner in which he expressed them, ' were So analogous to my own, that I felt as if I had been long acquainted with him, and consequently threw off that reserve which I had constantly worn till that evening, from a consciousnefs of being stung out of my Sphere. He Ipoke French perfectly well, which added greatly to the pleasure I had in conversing with him. Mrs. wttker
and
[ ]
and her brother both spoke dt, but most barbarously. In Short, this gentleman’s visits grew more and more frequent; till at last he ventured to tell me what I had long read in his
O
eyes, viz. that he loved me. 1 received this declaration without any emotion, as I had daily expected it; besides, though I thought him an agreeable man, and was much prejudiced in favour of his understanding and character; yet I was not absolutely in love with him. I preferred him to all the men I had ever yet seen, and could have been contented to have passed the rest of my days with him; but this growing inclination of mine was checked by the apprehension lest his views (like those of m predecejfor) might be dishonourable *, and I rather suspected they were so, frorn two circumstances, which I did not let escape my obfer
• M 2 vation;
ft
[ 1^4 ]
I
«
vation; the first was, that Mr. Fletcher one evening called him my Lord; when instantly recolfefting himself, he looked confused, and said“ “beg “your pardon, captain; but I have “been all the morning attending the ‘‘ board of trade, where I said, my “Lord, and your lordships so often,
“that the word is still at my tongue’s “end.” The Gentleman (I took notice) appeared to be more surprised at the apology than at the epithet, which
he had received as familiar to him: In
/ *
the next place, I found he always got out of his own equipage at a distance from our house, and walked home at night, or went in a hack. I therefore received the declaration of his passion with a modest respect, telling him, that he did me too much honour, if his intention w’as so make me his wife; ' - and too great aninjurv, if he thought ' ■ ^ ^ of
>
[ 1^5 ]
%
of me as a mistress. He looked at

bashed, and I thought, hurt, at what I had said. I thus went on; “I am “persuaded. Sir," both from your man“ “and appearance, that you would “never come into the city (and that “among low people too) to seek a “companion for life. You must judge “of me by the society you find me “'in; though perhaps, in so doing, “you try me by a false criterion. “However that may - be, I will not “fufler you to wound my delicacy, “nor expose yourself to a refusal, by “a declaration, which, however eli“ “it may appear in your eyes, ‘‘ would be looked upon as an insult“ “to my honour by me; and “consequently, be treated with the “utmost resentment and contempt. “I am not. Sir, I know, a.proper “vise for you, and I will never be any
M -3 “man’s
\
[ is ]
“man’s mistress.” He gazed on me with aftoniftiment wrote in his face; when respectfully taking my hand, he said, Miss Homes, don’t be alarmed your virtue has subdued me. I own y I have had encouragement to hope a more favourable reception from you, and that on my own terms too; but the candid and spirited manner in which you have delivered your Sentiments, though it brings death to my wishes, yet raises you to a pitch of veneration in my esteem. How came you to fall into such bad hands? faift he, (prefiing me to his bosom) I disengaged myself from him, and answered, No matter; better be in “theirs than in yours. Sir: They are “much less dangerous.” My angel, cried he, accept of my services; trust me, and I will rescue you from these vile people, Whilst he spoke his eyes
'' “flashed
#
s
I 167 ]
stashed fire; I easily conceived the northeast celtity there was of refusing his offers;,
I therefore steadily refilled all his importunities to serve me, and he left me in despair, exclaiming. Why, why, am I married! On his departure Mrs. tvilker came into the parlour (where I was still sitting) her face illuminated with rage j when feating herself on a chair, almost breathless with passion;; >
sort of behaviour this, cried she, why, what do you think of, child'? Two such, fine offers as I have procured for you, and accept of neither of them! but you may starve and beg ‘ for me: i’ll keep you no longer, that’s flat. I burst into tears, and entreated her to have pity on me, alfuring her, that I would do everything but dishonour myself to oblige her. Well then, said she, (compofmg her features a little) keep to your word, and I will,
M 4 try[
[ ]
«
try to get you a man in your own way, I mean a husband. But mark me, Miss, if you don’t follow my directions circumifantially for the future, J will, I vow to God, either sell you to some old bawd, or transport you to America. Frighted to death at her looks as well as menaces, I promised everything, and Ihe grew cool, saying, I will think of a scheme to get, lio no ra bly rid of you, drawling out the word honourably with a sheer. I, had now long seen through the character of this woman, and her bother,
* - ‘. *
as she called him: I shuddered at the view of the deplorable situation I was in, but I had no resource. I often invoked on my knees, the spirit of my father t6 my aid; and called inces santly on my mother’s name, but alas, in vain. I begged of my obdurate tyrant to get me a place; alfuring her,
I woyld
,,,,
ft
ft
[ i69 ]
I Would moult cheerfully work for my bread, rather than be a burden to ' her. She always answered me, that if I offered to leave he. She would have me arrested for my board and lodging, and then I Should See who would bail me for So large a Sum of money. Thus entangled as well as intimidated, I gave myself entirely up to her direc tions. Jn a Short time Ihe planned the Scheme of my going into Torkjhire with her brother, there to pafs for a rich heiress. You know the reft' Sir; only, that all the untruths which I told you, were forced from me by the moil dreadful threats; and Fletcher (left I should not aft the part well which he had dictated to me) eonftantly placed himself So as to hear our conversation, whenever you and I were left alone, or I would (I think) have undeceived you; but my, heart was a traitor, Mri
. Hackit',
t
- [ 170 ]
Hackit: It feared to lose you, and M therefore conspired with Fletcher in P the deceit. When we arrived at Ivy B Castle, I would have discovered all to you; but I dreaded the violence of temper which I perceived in your parents. Now, believe me, Mr. Hackit,, (though I really loved you) yet before we went to Scotland, I entreated Fletcher to suffer me to break off the match; alleging the horror I felt on being obliged to impose upon you. He laughed at my false delicacy (as he called it) and bid me, at my peril, betray him ♦, saying“ “Jasper“ “and his wife are a couple of “avaricious, ill tempered, rich old “toads, and therefore very proper to “be made dupes of: Their fon (lam “told) is a worthy opprelfed charac “ter, and if he has one spark of y hunianity ' in his composition, will
1 “love
/ ■ '
[ lyi ]
“love and pity you, when he knows “your hillory, which I make no doubt “but you’st be ready enough to tell “him when your tongue is fet at “liberty.” Here she ended her story, when the poor creature flung herself at her hufbandst feet, imploring his compassion and forgiveness. She is very handsome it seems, He was moved at her tears, and raising her from the ground, said. You have
ZD ' ',
ruined us both, Jenny \ however, I am glad to find that you are virtuous,
,, and a gentlewoman; time, and my diligent inquiries, may perhaps, re ■ some part of your fortune: At present you are my wife, and as such I shall never be brought to treat you ill, let my parents ad; as they please. Here he embraced her. After some consultation upon what was best to be done in their present circumstances, it
was[
[ ] '
was determined, that she should stay' in the town where they where, whilst he returned to Ivy Cajile, to tell his story. He therefore took a decent lodging for her, and fet out for his father’s, in order to relate what had passed between him ancl his Lady; the narration of, which (you may suppose, Julia) flung the whole family into the most violent consternation. Lady Hackit infilled that her fon should be instantly divorced from the low lifed beggarly drab (as she called Mrs. Hackit), and afterwards have her taken up and punished as a vagrant and impostor; and in the meanwhile, commanded her fon, on his duty, to leave her to starve; declaring, that if he
ever attempted either to see her, or
\
assist her any more, he should be disinherited. Sir Jasper thought it more prudent not to turn the girl entirely
'Osh
[ 173 ]
Osh till they were perfectly convinced that the recovery of her father’s fortune was a thing impossible; observing, that should ffie regain it after she was divorced from Joe, he would never be the better for it, and they would have reason to repent of his having acted too rashly in the affair. Mr. Hackit (though bred up in sentiments as illiberal as these) yet now, for the first time in his life, perceived they were folie loved his wife, whose story had moved him to the utmost compassion for her unparalleled misfortunes; he therefore listened to his parents with an abhorrence of their cruelty and want of principles; and then declared, in a determined tone, that he would never abandon his vrife
4
for having committed errors which were absolutely compullive on her •, part; adding, that she well born, well-bred.

\
/
[■ 174 ]
bred, handsome, and virtuous, and would one day (he was persuaded) be, what in their estimation was above all wmrth, rich: “And till that time ar“ “I mull endeavour to keep the poor girl as well as I can; for which “reason. Sir, I now beg of you to “let me manage the estate my grand“ “left to me by his will, with N “orders that I should be put into pof. “fdfion of it as soon as I had attained “the age of one and twenty. I am “now. Sir, turned of twenty-five, and “have never received one sixpence of “it, though I was credibly inforiried “by a Gentleman of the law, whom “I met with at Tork races, that the “income of the estate is clear five “hundred pounds a year *, I must“ “request that you would in' ' “deliver up the title deeds of ' “this estate, togeiher with an account
“of
V >
f 'i75 ■]
of all the money you have received “from it, ever flnce my grandfather's “death, which is now ten years ago,
“and which was from that time, '' to be “put out to interell: for my use, till “I became of age, and that I have “been, you know, for upwards of four years, though you have not yet
ft
“thought proper to give up your trust to its right owner.” Sir Jasper was • thunderstruck at this unexpected Ipeech of his fon’s, as he had hitherto flattered himself with the hopes of secreting that part of his father-in-law's will from Mr. Hackit, in order to have, enjoyed the revenue of it during his life; and also, by that means, to have kept his Ion in constant dependence on him; but now the truth was difeover ed, he softened his tone, saying. My dear Joey, you have been milinformed in this affair; but however, since you
seem
♦
I
[' 176 ]
Seem determined to live with the girl,.
I will allow you two hundred pounds a year at present; and according as you behave for the future to myself and your mother, I may, perhaps, in time do more for you. I am much obliged to your generosity (replied the young man) but I choose' to manage my own estate; and therefore, after, having examined my grandfather’s will, I shall send a lawyer to speak to you, and settle matters according to justice and equity between you and I, Sir. So saying, he left his father to ' prepare his accounts against they were called for.
I
This, my dear, was the situation of affairs at Ivy Castle, when I arrived at Mr. lewis’s; and it was from Mr. Hackifs own mouth that I took down the particulars which I here send you;. he vas so obliging as to dictate whilst
I wrote,
■[ *77 ]
I wrote, sometimes by his memory, ’ but oftener from a paper wrote in iliort hand.
I commended his honour and humanity in supporting the cause of his wife; and said everything I could think of, which might tend to extenuate her faults, or to the aggrandizing her merits. There is great
O O
room for apologies in her conduct, indeed, said I, Niff Hackit; and I think ' she has shown an uncommon share of fortitude, as well as of virtue, not to have fallen a prey to vice, situated so critically as she has been for a length of time, and young as she was too y but I am persuaded her heart is a noble one, and only wants to be placed in its own vortex, where it may move ' spontaneously, to be admired and reverenced. Mr. Hackit frniled, and seemed pleased at the favourable opinion which, vol. II N' I had
[ tys j
I had conceived of his Lady, and: politely answered. If ever She has the honour and advantage of being acquainted with you. Lady Lucy, Ihe may possibly (by copying some of your virtues) become both a valuable, as well as an amiable woman., I replied. If that’s all She wants towards perfection, I promise you I Shall at all times be extremely glad of her acquaintance, and will render both you and her every service in my power, whenever you can make me of any use to you. He thanked me with a warmth of gratitude which was pleasing; and then told me, that he Should return to his wife the next day. This conversation palled between him and I at Lewis Farm, where he Spent a day with me; and indeed, it required no less time to transcribe this long hillory. Adieu, my dear, I have wrote volumes.
How
f 09 ]
How good I am! do you follow my example, and tell me about Louisa. I tremble for the fate of that sweet girl; his a painful sensation to me to doubt her prudence, I want to be relieved of it. You are certainly the most: worthy, as well as the mofl; amiable girl I ever knew, Julia; how does your tender care of Mrs. Boothby and her family, excite the admiration and esteem of your ever affectionate and faithful friend,
Grosvenor Square. L Scott.
P. S. I have been at home Ibme time, and have suffered much uneasiness from your long silence, but I would not interrupt the. Hackit story to tell you so; besides, I really am so tired with writing, that my pen drops from my fingers.
N 2 Miss[
[ ]
>
»
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott,
/
YOU are, indeed, very good, my dear Lucy, to fatigue yourself with writing volumes for my amuse shent. The hillory of Jenny Homes is interesting and affecting in the highest degree. I am convinced in my own mind, that Mrs. Wilker and her brother have robbed her of Mr. Homes's effects, and perhaps murdered him for that purpose; if lb, I trust their villainy will one day be brought to light. God forgive me if I judge too hardly of them.
What unfeeling hearts must Sir Jasper and his Lady have! I admire Mr. Hackifs shirk and humanity, and dare say he has good principles; in which there is the more merit, as his education, and the example he has. ■ coni

[, 181 ]
constantly had before his eyes were certainly not calculated to incite him to the practice of any one virtue; but, on the contrary, were castable of perverting a difpolition which otherwise might have been naturally good. I rejoice to find that he has the means of supporting himself and wife, independent of his parents *, and I heartily wish them happy.
Mr. Boothhy has received a letter from his daughter, accompanied by one from Sir Francis Merton. Louisa begs the permission of flinging herself at her parents feet, together with her husband, there to implore their blef fmg and forgiveness. Sir Francis intreats the same favour in behalf of his children; and afllires Mr. Boothby, that his daughter will be able to justify her conduct, if he will but condescend to give her a hearing; adding, that,
N 3 as
\
\
[ i82 ]
as Soon as he Shall hear of the young couple’s having been favourably received at Farnahy Ahhey, he proposes to himself the honour of paying a visit to Mr. Boothhy, in order to Settle everything properly (and he hopes) to his • Satisfaction, with regard to his daughter in law’s jointure, sac. and concludes with the strongest afllirances of his perfect approbation of his fon’s choice in a wife; together with some handsome complimients on the pleasure it gives him, to be allied to a family So truly ellimable as that of my guardian’s; and is his most humble Servant. these letters were answered immediately, fignisying, that they would most willingly receive the bride and bridegroom; and should esteem Sir francis’s intended viflt as a peculiar honour conferred on them. You may be sure, Lucy, that the
know
T 183 ]
f
knowledge of Sir Francis's approbation of this marriage gave no small satisfaction to the parents of my friend Louisa: : know it gave infinite pleasure to me. It is certainly a great match for her in point of fortune; but that would have been no consideration, when balanced against the rigid probity of her father; who J 1 really believe of the two, would rather have seen her the wife of an honest beggar, than married to the first man in the kingdom, against the consent of his relations and friends. We are in hourly expectation of feeing this happy pair; pleafure'glows in our breasts on this joyful occasion. I will not close my letter till after their arrival.
Well, my dear, they came yesterday about five in the afternoon, in an elegant post chaife and four, with two footmen on horseback, all in new'
N 4 liveries.
(
[. i84 ]
liveries. Mr. Merton handed his Louisa out of the chaise;; met them in the yard; they advanced to Mr. Boothby, when both bending their knees, asked his blessing. He embraced them alternately, with tears of tenderness streaming from his eyes. Then the mother hung enraptured over her children (as ffie called them). At last Louisa flew round my neck; I Strained her to my bosom. My heart really leapt with joy at fleeing her So perfectly happy. She presented her husband to me, who told me, that next to his Louisa, I was the woman on earth for whom he had conceived the highest esteem“ “character“ “your friend has So frequently drawn of you, Madam, commande; d “my admiration; but ’tis too much “to find the Sorm as perfect as the mind.” I bowed, and Imiled at his
com[
[ ]
compliment. We then all entered the house and drank tea, which contributed a little to the composing of our spirits, As soon as it was over, and the servants had left the room, Louisa, with a look of ineffable sweetness, begged she might be permitted to clear up that part of her conduct, which (she much feared) wanted an explanation. “You may remember, my dear “Miss Bolton, (addreffmg herself to “me) that I received a letter from “Mr. Merton,, the contents of which “I never communicated to you. You “did not tell me that you knew I had “received such a letter; but your eyes “spoke the truth. I was infinitely “pained at the being under a neceshty “of ufmg reserve to the friend of my “heart; but the idol of that heart, said she (looking at her husband“ “I would do so, and I durst
■ “
»
1
f 186 ]
not disobey him. He wrote me in “his letter, that he had brought his father to consent to our union, on “condition that he renounced the er“
“of the church of Rome, and
\
‘‘ entered into the communion of the ‘‘ church of England A proposal, Said Mr. Merton, interrupting his wife, which I moult readily acquiesced in, as 1 had, ever since I left the convent, been determined to abjure a religion which had authorised, and even commanded, so base a piece of deceit as that, which had been for years put upon my father and self. Here he ceased speaking, but Mrs. Merton begged he would go on, saying, he would certain!v narrate those circum stances which had pasted preceding their marriage, better than she could, as he was himself the principal ador in all the fccnes which he had to relate.
Ilf
[ 1*7 ]
He bowed, and continued thus: I told my father, that my resolution was fixed as to the quitting the religion of my mother, whether I ever married my mistress or not. Well, said my father, but my dear fon, this affair must be managed with the utmost; delicacy; your mother has long deceived us, we will now practice a little of her own art upon her for, observe me, should she penetrate our scheme, she will do all in her power to frustrate it; because, after all the pains and hypocrisy which it has cost her to make a good catholic of you, judge what will be her rage and difappointmenr, when she finds that you purpose marrying a protestant, and, which is worse, becoming one yourself, I know Mr, boothhy’s character well, (continued' my father) and consequently honour it; a child of his must probably, be
I truly
[ i88 ]
rruly amiable; and as to the affair of fortune, I am not anxious about it. Her father is that sort of man, who
t ^
will, I know, give his daughter as much money after her marriage, as he would have done before it; and I will make the girl a jointure fit for your wife, though She should not bring you a shilling, Frank. But, my dear hoy, (continued he) you must; prevail upon your mistress to run away with you; because it is necessary that I should appear ignorant of the affair, in order to keep peace with your mother, and old Boothhy, I know, has so delicate a sense of his honour, that he will never give his child leave to marry you without my consent“ “take “my advice, write to your Louisa“ “her to hold herself in readiness one day next week, and that you “will come down to the village with my
“sister[
[ ]
“filler, Lady Ludlow, there to remain “incog, till fire can find a proper oppor “trinity of shipping away unobserved from her father’s house; when your “aunt and self will immediately con“ “her to Scotland: There you mufl: “instantly marry her. The young “Lady (if she loves you, Frank) can “have no objection to this scheme' ' “1 have treated her delicacy with a “parental attention,, by engaging my “Lady Ludlow to accompany her in “the expedition.” But I wnll write a few lines to Miss Boothhy myself, (continued he) “left, as you say she“ “extremely prudent. She may ap“ “that you promise more than “you can perform.” Here Mr. Merton smiling, said, Nov, my dear, do you tell the rest, for you .have my father’s letter. It contained, said Louisa, but a few words, which were, to afsure
me,
$
I
«
[ 190 ]
me, how joyfully he should receive me into his family, and how careful and tender of me his sister Lady Ludlow would be; and concluded vrith insisting on my communicating this scheme to no one living, as I valued my own happiness and his esteem. Here Mrs. Merton (looking at her father) said, Thus situated, how could I ad otherwise than I have done? Do then, my dear Sir and Madam, pronounce my pardon. They both folded her in their arms, pouring a million of prayers and blessings on her head; telling her at the same time, that they could no longer condemn her conduct, since she had explained her motives for it. She then came to me, and taking my hand, But here, says she, 1 know not show to hope for forgiveness;; yet I shall be wretched if it is refused me by my Julia. Indeed, my dear, Madam,
I re
\
[ I
I replied (rrniling) I think you wouidi have wanted both sentiment and honour, if you had betrayed either your lover or his father; therefore I rather admire than blame your secreting the affair from me. “You could not reveal it with honour, my dear; and. “I was convinced you could not, from “your not communicating it to me.” Generous Julia, (cried she) how your noble heart judges of others from itself!! I changed the topic of con: verfation.
I mufl: now tell you, Lucy, that Mr. Merton has (fortunately) a manly figure, otherwise the extreme softness of his voice and manner would give him an insupportable effeminacy. He is well made, tall, and. genteel; his features are large and regularly handsome;; address is (from its gentleness) irresistible insinuating and en
o'ao’incr • ^
[ 192 ]
gauging; his foreign education' has given him that sort of attentive politeness so truly pleasing in the French, and which our engujh beaux in general know so little of, or at least, So Seldom reduce to practice. He dotes on his wife to an excess which I will not attempt to describe. His fondness of her is visible in every word, look, and gesture; yet does he behave to her wdth a relsted which approaches nearer to adoration than anything elfe which ' I can compare it to. No foolish caresses or indelicate familiarities pafs between them in company; their eyes only speak the feelings of their hearts. The old folks are charmed wdth their fon in 1 aw. Louisa is ten times handsomer than ever she was; owing, I suppose, to her being ten times happier. We expect Sir Francis and Lady Ludlow here tomorrow. And now, my
dear.
*■
«
Am]. -
dear, suffer me to lay down my pen, after having wished you success (which, indeed I ought to shave done before) in your plan of going to hopton halu I can neither approve or condemn the scheme; it is one of those sort of situations which must be left to the chapter of accidents, as it will certainly be either praised or blamed, according to. the success it meets with. I am not
».
much an admirer of these sort of dubious undertakings; but I believe a ' good deal may be said on both ftdes of, ‘ the question;; that everything may ' turn out according to your desires, is the ardent wish of the heart of your
ever faithful friend,
♦
y
Farnahy'ahhey. J. Bolton.
ft
\
/
'y
0
vol. II O Lady'
'
♦
[ '94 1
/
4
\
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
HOW I rejoice, my dear juud. at the happiness of your friends! I am half in love with Mr. Merton, and pretty near as much so with old Sir Francis. Louisa too, has proved her conduct to have been unavoidable, as affairs were situated. Long,, long, may she ashd her worthy mate be happy in each other.,
I must not yet lose light of the Hackit family. The day after I had seen Mr. Hackit at Lewis Farm, I went ‘ to pay a visit at Ivy Castle. What a different scene there presented itself to. my view, from that which your last letter represented to my imagination. I found' my Lady Hackit wrapped up in her nightcap, devoured by her own ill humour (and its constant companion)
I
[ »95 i '
nion) the vapours. She burst into tears at the sight of me, and clapping her hands on her face (as if ashamed to show it) cried out. Ah! Lady Lucy, what a wretched parent do you now see before you! I answered, I hope not. Madam; for I have heard Mr. Hackifs story from himself, and I really think there is a great probability thd things may turn out very well for him in the end. Is that your opinion f said her ladyship, do you really think that Joey will ever be able to come at her father’s fortune? I replied, indeed, I think it is highly probable that time and proper inquiries will bring the affair to light; and as to the young Lady herself, by what I have, heard of her story, I judge her to have a worthy good heart; and therefore she is much more to be pitied than blamed throughout her whole
O 2 history.
., 196 ]
history. I am sure I knoy^ few girls who would have acted as prudently, and with the courage She has done, cir cumfcaneed as she has been. Let me tell your ladyship, that it is very uncommon for a person of her age and sexto have lived among vice, without catching the infection; but she was well born and well educated (added I)
'and those two advantages were doubt
/ /
less her guards. “For my part, I ‘‘ have conceived so good an opinion “of her, that I long to be one of her acquaintance, and shall take the very “first opportunity that offers of pro' ', “myself that pleasure.” Will, > you keep her company indeed i (said Lady Hackit) what, though she should prove a beggar. Lady Lucy? The sooner for that reason, (answered I) since in that cafe I may perhaps, have it in my power to render her some
service
\
[ 1
i
service;; if she was rich and happy, all the world would court her, and 1 should be of no use to her. You are extremely generous, Said Lady Hackit (with a certain toss up of her nose) but, for my part, I shall Sushehd my judgement of the young, woman, - ' till I hear how matters turn out at the India House, where my Son intends. going on his return to London, Here Sir Jasper ]Csmod. us; ■ he talked a good deal on the Subject, and in pretty much the Same style as his Lady. I Said everything I could invent in favour of the young couple and I really flatter myself, that I did Soften their obdurate hearts a little, before I left them. I know nothing more of this family since I left the farm, but when I, do, you shall hear it all. My parting with ■ the lewis’s was tender; but show shall I describe poor Sufarfs sorrow when I
O 3 rook
I
[ '98 ].
took leave of her? I reasoned with her, and showed the necessity there was for her staying sometime longer where she was; representing to her, how happily she was situated there, with friends who treated her more like their .own child, than my Servant.. She acknowledged the truth of all I Said, declaring, that she would prefer death to the Seeing of Lord Tatton again j owned herself perfectly Sensible of the Lewifes goodness to her; but at the Same time protested, that she could not Survive the parting with her dear miftress. I comforted her, by promising, that as Soon as my brother was married, she should return to me. She aflced (with vivacity) will my Lord be married Soon, Madam? Do you wish he should, Susan? Said I (looking archly at her). Yes, indeed I do, she replied, (with truth visible in her eyes)
“for
\ w[
[ ]
<
“for then I shall see your ladyship ‘‘ again.” 1 was vastly pleased to observe that her attachment to me was become stronger than her love for my brother. I now kissed the faithful good creature *, and after putting twenty guineas into her hand, I bid her lock herself up in her own room, and take a good cry, that she might not see me drive off.
I left the Lewifes with regret; they are most amiable people. On my arrival in town, I found my parents and brother truly rejoiced to see me. I have been so taken up with Mrs. Hackifs story, Julia, that I have not found time to speak a word of my own concerns. My brother is (as the common phrase has it) over head and ears, in love with Jenny (as he calls her); he is almost eonftantly at Lord plum jieoas. tho’they are still in the coun
O 4. try,
V <
1'
[ 200 ]
’ try, about twenty miles from town, yet he visits them as regularly as if they lived the next door too us. On their return to London (which will be soon) all parties re to have a meeting, I hear, when matters, I apprehend, will easily be brought to a conclusion, as the match is, a very suitable one on all fides, and the families have long had a reciprocal efleern for each other,
, Lady Kelfo has wrote a very polite ^ friendly letter to my mother, telling her, that she is convinced' her fon’s fife depends upon his being united to me; and at the same time pathetically intreats her to consent to our innocent scheme of bringing Lord Kelfo, not only to approve of the match, but ^ even to propose it himself to his fon. ' • She says a vast deal more to persuade: : mother of the certainty of succeeding
in her plan; concluding, that
'V
I
0
%
I
*
• \
[ 201 ]
t
at all events Lord Kelfo mufl: be brought to give his consent to our marriage, or be the death of his only child.
My mother has promised to break the affair to my father at a proper time, but I could not prevail on her to do so, till Ihe found that rny happiness depended almost as much upon the success of 'Lady kelfo’s scheme, as Lord malcom’s did. She told me, that She could not approve of any deceit being made use of on an occa
O
, lion which she thought wounded my delicacy; as she apprehended there was no necessity for disguise, in order to procure for her daughter the huf ^ band of her choice, let him be who. he would. However, continued she“
“it must be so, ' Lucy, I will “mention it to your father; but I much fear he will never agree to
“your
I
1
[ 202 ]
your going on a visit to Hopton Hall “under a borrowed name.” I alfured this good mother of mine, that I would not take a single step in this affair, without her, advice and approbation. She thanked me, and said, she would do all in her power to contribute to my happiness.
My brother paid me a viflt this morning, when feating himself, he said, My dear Lucy, I am come to, receive your orders with regard to that poor girl Susan. You know I begged to'be called upon whenever my purse should be wanted. Your generosity, my fvveet sister, must not supplant my justice: I therefore insist upon your telling me vshat money you gave her at Lewis Farm, (for I am sure you did not leave her with empty pockets) that.
, I may repay you with thanks; And as 1 am (I hope) going to be married, I
purpose
/

I
[ 203 ]
t
purpose fettling upon Susan fifty pounds a year for her life, if you think that is enough, if not, I will add whatever you please to it. But (continued he)
I want this pension to appear as coming from you, Lucy, left the ill natured world should guess at the motive of my munificence; therefore I will make it over to you for her use;; that do better, sister?? flung my arms round his neck, and kissed his handsome face, because I was at that moment violently in love with his heart. You are an amiable good lad, 'cried I;
• and for that reason you shall have all the satisfaction there is in doing good, to yourself“ “left twenty guineas “with Susan; and the sum you pro“ “fettling upon, her is sufficient;
more would fling her out of her % ^
“sphere, and consequently make her either ridiculous or miserable.” He
seemed
^ %
[ ]
seemed pleased with the approbation I had shown of his conduct, but flghing, said, Alas! it will never be in my power to repair the injury I have done that unfortunate poof girl. Really, Julia, if all men were like my brother, they would be delightful creatures; but it, is quite otherwise: Most of the pretty gentlemen who “litter public places, ” (as Mrs. Clive says) have bad heads, and no hearts. However, they find their likenesses among us women, and so between ^ them propagate puppies and flirts in abundance. God keep you and I, my friend, from such connexions; and with this pious prayer 1 shall conclude my fiupid letter. Yours for ever,
Grosvenor Square. ' L Scott.
P. S. Lady Jane Carr shends the day vrith me tomorrow; how will / I fly
/
»
f
[ 205 ]
t
fly rejoice at the felicity of her beloved Louisa / a real pleasure I shall have in communicating it?
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
SIR Francis Merton and Lady lul ■ low have been with us this week
*. I
pair; they both appeared charmed with Louisa, and'indeed, with all her family. The former told Mrs. hy, that he had heard so excellent a character of her daughter, both from the nuns in whose convent jfhe had Istent so many years of her life, as well as from Lady Plumfiead', (not to mention the rapturous praises which his fon continually poured forth on the mental, as well as peribnal charms of his mistress), that he had determined their union, even before they left
“But
1
I
■ [ 206 ]
‘‘ But I wished to gain tiny, as Prank ^ “was but young, and knew little or
A.
nothing of the world. I was more “particularly induced to favour his “inclinations, as I knew the lady’s “family were all Protestiants, and I “dreaded Lady mertops proposing a “wife of the, Romish persuasion for “her Son.” These considerations (continued Sir Francis) obliged me to precipitate matters on my return to England, as I found my wife and her friends were plotting to form an alliance for the boy, which might fix him in (what they call) the true religion. These reasons will, I hope, Mr. Looth, hy, (said the good old Gentleman) plead my apology for ashsting my Jon in stealing away your daughter. We will, I promise you, make all the reparation in our power, both to you and the Lady, by using our utmost
endeavours
«
t
\
[ 2°7 ]
endeavours to make her future fife happy. Mr. Boothby assured Sir Francis of his perfect approbation of ali that had passed; declaring his fatif fadion at feeing his daughter married into so worthy a family as that of Mr. merton’s. Lady Ludlow protested sho would have gone to the end of the world with the young couple, rather than the match should have broke off, and her nephew, perhaps, by that means, been married to a Papist. ’ Mr. Merton told his aunt, that the very first thing he proposed doing on his return to London, was to wait on the Archbishop of Canterbury, in order to be ♦
perfectly instruded in the tenets of the Anglican faith; after which he would make a public abjuration of the errors in which fie had been educated. We all approved his design; his father and aunt shed tears of joy on the occasion.
I was!
!

(
. *
> '
[, 208 ]
/
I was glad to hear his resolution, because difference of opinions in religious matters between married people,
I am, told, often breeds diffensions;
/
otherwise ■, .own to you, my dear Lucy, that I think with Mr. Pope, who says.
For modes of faith letgracelefs zealots fight, “His can’t be wrong, whose life is in the right.
Sir Francis proposes in the Spring, that Mr. Merton and his Lady should make one more trip to Paris; for,. Said he, my Son may finish his education there, though a married man, without any impropriety, as the French people learn to ride, fence and dance at ali ages: besides, (added he smiling) Lady Merton will have time to cool upon her anger during our absence; for I shall beg leave (with their permission) to, be one of the party, and
so
\
I
[ 209 ]
ft
So will that fair Lady, I hope, said he (looking at me.) “Louisa will “want a young companion of her “own sex; and I read in her eyes, that “Miss Bolton is the friend of her choice.” If my dear Julia will consent to your obliging proposal, Sir, (said Mrs. Merton) I Shall then be the happiest creature on earth. Say rather. Madam, I answered, if my guardian will consent: On my part, I can only affure you, that I shall most willingly accept of Sir francis’s offer, if it meets with Mr. and Mrs. boothhy’s approbation. Sweet girl, (cried my guardian) how good you are; it is almost impossible to deny you anything. You would not surely, (said Sir Francis) refuse the young couple the first favour they have ashed of you since their marriage. Here Mr. and Mrs. Merton joined their father in soliciting Mr,
vol. II P Boothhy
1
[ 210 ]
Boothhy to say yes. ' He did so at last
«
very reludantly I could perceive; and I knew why — Observe, my dear, that Lady Ludlow is to be our chaperoti.
Shall I, O fortune I shall I see my Harry again, and that without con troul} Yes, Lucy, my heart tells me that I shall; at least I shall be upon the same continent with him, and there is some satisfaction even in that thought. Louisa and her husband are to stay here for a short time I find, till Sir Francis can prevail on his Lady, to see them, which it seems she absolutely refuses doing at present. The lawyers are busy in drawing the marriage settlements;; Boothhy gives his daughter ten thousand pounds. Sir Francis appeared surprised when he heard the sum mentioned, as he had not imagined she would have brought his fon above half so much. He however
[ II ]
ever showed no sort of pleasure at this discovery, only saying. It is the young lady’s affair, not mine; for if she had brought ten times as much fortune into my family, it should have been every farthing fettled on her and her children, as I think Frank is sufficiently rich in the possession of so lovely a woman. He has made Louisa a jointure of one thousand pounds per annum, George Boothhy, I find, is not to make his appearance among us till Sir Francis is gone, as he cannot forget (he says) that his indiscreet rashness had very near robbed him of his only child. Young Merton on the contrary, shows an impatience of being acquainted with him, to which he is most certainly not incited by his Louisa; who, if I can read her heart, don’t love her brother George: My Harry she has always doted upon. Indeed
P 2 George
[ 212 ]
George has ever behaved to her more like a tyrant than a brother.
What a beautiful picture have you. given me of Lord tattod.s heart! happy Lady Jane, who is the poflteltor of it. Worth like his is a balls on. which she may safely build her future felicity. Thus all my friends, sail on with a profperoiis gale to the port of matrimony, whilst I alone am Secluded from being of the party. Be it foi am become by that means the heroine among you; for there never was one, without her combating num
I
berlefs difficulties, and going through, immense trials. I am sorry that such was my lot; but since it is foi have made a resolution to equal, if not excel, all my, fair predecefsors in constancy, perseverance, and fidelity to. my knight.
Louisa
I
t 213 ]
Louisa has wrote to her brother Harry, to inform him of her marriage; as she justly observes, that she has nobody’s leave to ask but her hufband’s now; and why should he refuse her? The good girl has appointed him to meet her at Paris, without mentioning a word of my being to accompany her thither. She has, cautioned him however, not to inform his father of her having wrote to him; but I fear, Lucy, that Mr. Boothby and George will lay their heads together, and defeat all our pupofes, though for different reasons: I am sure George either is, or pretends to be in love with me. I have had a letter from him under the pretext of inquiring after his filler and her husband. His words say nothing, ’tis true; but they imply a great deal to me, who have already read the language of his eyes.
P 3 I gave
t
%
[ 214 ]
I gave it to his father, desiring him to answer it.
Mr. Merton often makes me laugh when we women are all at work, to see him steal a needle slily, and follow our example, with an address and dexterity which would be surprising to those who were not acquainted with his history. He says he finds a great resource in work, as it is impossible to read all day long on a rainy day in the country; and the want of something to do, he observes, makes many of his sex tired of themselves, and consequently cross to all around them. I believe he’s. right; for I have often pitied the men to see them yawning and loitering whole days away for want of some employment; I wish therefore, that those who won’t read, might be obliged to make their own shirts, ssc. Sir Francis leaves ns tomorrow;
[2 15]
morrow *, we are all to go to town Shortly, as we hope Lady Merton will at last be placable. Lady Ludlow accompanies her brother. She is a well-bred, sensible, good tempered woman, who has seen a great deal of life; and having lost a good husband in her youth, has wisely remained a widow ever since.
s
Tell me how your scheme goes oh, I cannot help laughing to think how aukwardlyjjiiji^ will answer to the name of Miss, who have been a ladyship from your birth, though less foi fancy, than most people in your station of life; for I have often heard you chide us girls at school, for giving you your title (as you thought) too frequently; and I have observed that your servants have had the same lesson, since they oftener say Madam than my Lady. For my part, I have
P 4 always
\
[ ]
always taken the liberty of styling yoii my dear Lucy; and as you probably, will not change your christian, with your family name, I shall still continue to subscribe my dear lucy’s ever obliged and affectionate friend,
Farnahy Ahhey, Julia Bolton.
/
_ ft
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
My dear Julia, I am delighted to hear that you are to accompany, your friend to Paris, where I ardently wilh you may meet your Harry.
I am to fet out for Hopton Hall tomorrow. This sudden flight will naturally surprise you; but mark how it happened : I told you in my last, that Lady Jane Carr was coming to shend the day with us; she did so, accompanied by Lady Plumfiead. In the course of our conversation the latter •*' observed[
[ ]
observed, that it was a bad time of the year to travel in; yet she and her daughter were going to spend a few weeks at my Lord kelfd.s, whilst Lord Plumfiead went on to the North of Scotland, where business of importance called him. I looked at my mother, when, to my inexpressible surprise fly said tolady Jane, If your mamma, my dear, had no objection, shoiild you like to take Lucy with you there by way of a companion } Jenny, you may be sure, expressed her joy at the proposal in the most lively manner, and Lady Plumfiead appeared delighted to see her daughter made so happy, and thanked my mother in the warmest terms for conferring such a favour on them. Lady Longfdown, after we had drank tea, proposed a game of piquet to Lady Plumfiead, for which purpose, they two retired into a little drawing
room.
1
[ 2ls ]
room, and left us alone. I observed my rhother winked at me as she went away, as much as to say, communicate your scheme to the daughter,
, whilst I break it to the mother. They were no sooner gone than I did so. The giddy girl enjoyed the frolic (as she called it) but, says she, I tremble lest through inadvertency I should betray you. I told her she would have time enough on the road to practice my name. Here our mothers had finished their party, and came into the room again. Mine said. My dear Lucy, I have made Lady Plumfiead acquainted with your romantic scheme, and fly approves it for the same reason.. do — because we see, that at all events you are determined to marry Lord' ' Malcom. I have Sounded your fa“ “upon the subject, (though So' “cautiously as to prevent his Siifped
“ing
t 219 ]
“ing my reason for so doing), and “find he has no good objections to “the alliance, though he is not fond “of the family. However, I durst “not communicate your plan to him,
“as I knew he never would consent to
(
“it; therefore your best way will be ‘‘ to alk his leave to accompany Lady ■ “Jane into Scotland, without saying“ “you are going, how long you “shall stay, or, in short, anything of “the matter. It shall be my care to “give Lady Kelfo notice of your in“ “as well (added she, smiling“ “to inform her of your name. Your “father, who looks upon Lady Jane “as already one of his own children, “will, I am sure, refuse her nothing, “so she must ask you of him.” I need not tell you that Jenny accepted this offer most wdllingly. At supper she made her request. M y father (who
is
■[ 220 ]
is excessively fond of her) took her in his arms, and kissing her cheek, answered, My sweet girl, if Lucy joins her entreaties to yours, I can never relist your united powers, though I don’t know how to part with either of you. Said he, looking affedionately at us both. My brother seemed to envy his father the caresses which he received from his Jane, and laughing said. You life me cruelly now, but my turn will come, Jenny, and then I will be revenged, of you. She good naturedly gave him her hand, saying archly, I love you in your father, my Lord, And did you kiss me in him too, Lady Jane Not absolutely (she replied) but something like it. He caught her round the neck as she pronounced these vrords. She called me
* t
to her aid, and I flew to her ashstance, Lord Tatton don’t like parties with ^ his
0
[ 221 ]
his mistress; but as the marriage fet ’ tlements will take a considerable time' in drawing, our journey will not impede the marriage, which is to be consummated as soon as the lawyers will finish their business;
s
Julia, my heart beats pit a pat, lest
I should not succeed with this old
*
Scotch peer. "Well, I can but do my best, you know, and leave the rest to fate. My name is to be Neville; it was my mother’s. Direct my letters under cover, to Lady Longfdown, in Grofuenor square, and she will take care and send them to me. I hope,, my dear, you and I shall now Soon' meet in town; till when, and for ever after, continue to love your owm
Grofvenor square. L Scott..
i
t
P. S. Love and joy to the |miable Louisa, and her worthy mate. My;
^ com --
ir.
222 ]
compliments of felicitation on the happy occaflon to Mr. and Mrs. Boothhy. Take care of George, my dear; I am afraid of him on your account. I have heard more of the Haekits, but have not now time to tell it you; so adieu.
ft
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
May all Success attend my lovely Liady Lucy. To please is your talent as well as your pursuit; how then should you fail i Sir Francis is gone, George is arrived. The meeting between Mr. Merton and him was frank, cordial, and Sincere on one lide, reserved and cold on the other. Louisa I saw, remarked the contrast with resentment and grief; her looks Ipoke her dislike of her brother’s behaviour. • I believe he is not pleased to find that his
father
[ 223 ]
father has parted with so much money to his sister;; if I am not greatly mistaken in the young man, avarice is his predominant passion. Thank you my dear, for the caution you give me a gainst him. I believe indeed, she will try to gain me by fair means first; if they don’t do, he may perhaps use foul ones : I am however upon my guard against his machinations. He met me in the garden the other morning, when seizing my unwilling hand, he said. Lovely Julia, you look like the goddess of health; yet instead of distributing that first of all blessings to your votaries, as she does; you, on the contrary, deprive them of it. Am I so mischievous, replied I; if foi am sure it is unintentionally; but pray who have I ever deprived of health?
. Can you ash that, said he, while you See me languishing under a difease of
which
\
[ 22+ ]
%hich you are the foie cause, and which one Smile from that enchanting mouth of yours would instantly dispel?? God! said I, Mr. Boothhy, you are quite in heroics today; for what have my Smiles to do with your heakh? My life depends upon them. Madam, he
X J. ' '
replied, flinging himself at my feet. You astonish me, George, cried I; are .you ignorant that my faith and heart are engaged to your brother; and that if they were not So, your father would never consent to your becoming my husband?? know all you can tell me, answered he; and I know also, that I love you to distradion, and can no longer conceal a passion which destroys me. I have ever loved you. Mil's “Bolton, from my infancy; but see ing that you viflbly preferred my brother to me, 1 endeavoured to conquer my inclinations; but, alasl
how
4
[ ris ]
“how vain were all my efforts to re call a heart which had so long been “in your possession. In short, Ma“ “Harry is unfaithful; I can ■
“prove this assertion to a demonftra “tion, whenever you please to listen“ “me. And as to my father, he will,
“never be able to resist our united in“ “; do'you only join me in the “request, my angel, and i’ll answer' for its success.” 1 pushed him from “me, with disdain, saying“ “•. “thou unworthy fon of such a father!
“know, Mr. Boothhy, that his disin “terested mind will never be brought “to think his fon George a proper L ‘‘ match for Julia Bolton. And as to “what you have said of your brother,
“Sir, 'tis false;; as your own “heart.” Here I 'assured hirn, that if for the future he should ever presume to persecute me with his im ■ vol. II (L pertinent
• ft
[ 2'26' ]■
pertinent addreites, I would instantly.' complain to Mr. Boothfy of his info folence; so saying, I left him. Now 1 should be very sorry my dear Lucy,. to give his father pain by discovering george’s pretensions to him; nor could. I pardon my self for making him quarrel, with his fon on my account, if I could possibly avoid it. My spirits are very low, my friend; I have a weight about, my heart today, which is not usual to me, and which I tremble lest I should infect you with; for which reason i’ll ■
. talk no more of myself, but fill up the rest of my letter with the pretty nun’s story, which Louisa narrated to us all .• last night after supper. You must rcr collect the young melancholy nun, who was frequently mentioned ' by Miss Boothhy.
She was the dangliter and only .child of a merchant, who was supposed to
be :
ft
»
L 227 ]
be in good circuifistances; her parents died when she was only five years old, and left her to the guardianship of another merchant, a friefid of her deceased father’s. - He placed her in the convent, where Mrs. Merton knew her: There fly staid ten years; at the expiration of which time, her guardian waited upon her one day, when he told her, that as her late father had left her little or no fortune, he came to confuit with her about the most eligible manner of dilstosing of the small Sum of money which he had of hers in his hands, as well as of her person, •, she was now arrived at a period of life when she ought to form some plan of getting her bread. She started at the last words, having hitherto Supposed herself to be a rich heiress. This she told him. He said, he was very Sorry that the false reports which had, '
2 beem
I
[ 228 ]
been circulated about the country (with regard to the state of her affairs) should have led her into such an error; but that the was much otherwise, since he had only two hundred pounds remaining in his hands of what her father had died possessed of, terest having been expended in her board, clothes,, and education. He observed however, that small as the sum was, yet it was sufficient to procure her admittance as a nun, into the house where she had already lived for ten years; adding, that in his opinion she could not adopt a more rational, as well as prudent step than that would be, of taking the veil. She cried bitterly while she listened to this difcourse, having .no vocation for the habit, as she had for sometime conceived a pas flon for a young man of the town, wdio was brother to one of the boarders
in
t
\
[ 229 1
in the house, with whom she had con' ' a particular friendship. She told the merchant, when grief (with which she was almost suffocated) would, permit her to Isteak, that she desired time to think of what he had proposed, and then retired from the grate.
On entering her chamber, she became almost frantic with disappointment, grief and surprise, when she recojleded the Scene which had just pasted between her guardian and herself. She was not without suspicion that he had wronged her; but where was the resource?? as she was with the world, and without one friend to apply to; for as to the nuns, she was certain they would rather join in the cheat, than aid her to detect it; as they were al ways glad to increase their flock, let the means of doing So be what they
would in this distraded situation of
» >. ‘
Q 3 mind
[ ijo ]
mind the poor girl applied to' the sister of her lover,. begging that she would request her brother to make all possible inquiries in the town where her father had lived and died, about his circum stances, and what he was supposed (by his neighbours) to have poffiefled at the ' time of his decease. This deflre was most readily complied with by the parties, who were themselves greatly interested in the affair. Some time after this the young man waited upon his mistress, and with the most sorrowful countenance acquainted her (whom he most ardently loved) that all the information he could gain (after having taken all possible pains to be informed on the subject) was, that her father was supposed to have died rich, (for that part of the world) but that they believed nobody knew so much of his affairs as the young lady’s
guardian,
I
t 231 ]
guardian, and one other gentleman, whose name they had forgot, and who, they believed, was now dead. The young man lamented in the most; pathetic language, his want of power to .share his fortune with her; but said •
*
he was so unfortunate as to have an obdurate miser of a father, who would meyer consent to his marriage, even to an angel, unless fly brought a fortune into the family. The lovers wept incessantly the.. Severity of their fate.;. •whilst the nuns on their part, used ■every perfuaflon and artifice in their power, to engage her to become one of the Sisterliood. There was indeed,
■ no alternative left her; for where could ' lire go? what could ■ fly do? Without a proteclress in the world, young,
■; handsome, and poor, fly was the natural prey of calumny and vice. She therefore began Seriously .to think of
taking
1 232 ]
taking the veil; but unconquerable love opposed for Some time, her utmost; endeavours for that purpose. Tp put it at ortce out of her power of ever being united to the man her heart
O o
doted on, was an eflbrt above her strength. The violent conflids she. suffered in her mind, Soon impaired her health. She Saw with pleasure (as she thought) her dissolution approach by slow, but Sure degrees, wshen she was seized with a violent fever and delirium which alarmed all the nuns, who received little hopes (from the phyflcians who attended her) of her. recovery. She continued in a state of imminent danger for some days, when the distemper took a favourable turn, and at last restored this unhappy creature to life, and wretchedness again. Weakened as she vas by her late disorder, her passion had diminished with ' her
[ 233 ]
her strength; from whence she vainly flattered herself that she loved with less ardour than she had done before her illness. This observation encouraged her to promise the nuns, that she would enter, into her year of probation or noviciate, as soon as she was well enough to attend the offices of the church. She did so; and with a heart opprelfed with the most poignant sorrow, she went through the ceremony of taking the white veil, but not without showing the most lively marks of an ineffable grief. During all this time her lover was not ea^ier^ than herself; but his lister finding there was no hopes of ever feeing them, united, prudently forbore mentioning her brother to her friend; and she, poor creature, had not courage to inquire after the man, who, but too fatally, employed most of her thoughts.
Thus
/
\
A
. [ ?34 1 '
‘thus the year went on, at the end of which fly vras to pronounce those vows which her heart abjured; she therefore begged a longer time of probation, alleging, that she vas not yet in a frame of mind which could render her an acceptable sacrifice to God. But as she continually prayed for a vocation, she humbly hoped to obtain it shortly from divine goodness. More
• time was (with much difficulty) granted her, which when expired she was sold. She must: either profess, or be turned out of the convent. At this
t
, dreadful sentence she summoned up all her fortitude, and declared herself ready for the sacrifice. It was performed with the usual Solemnities;
• the wretched victim was led more dead than alive to the altar, where she publicly renounced with her tongue, what her heart was tremblinglv full of. The
CV, y
ceremony
k
[ 235 ]
ceremony over, her fillers put her to bed, she being no longer able to Support the complicated evils of a broken heart and a tottering frame. The next day however, she drew courage from her despair, and felt a relief in finding herself irrevocably doomed to misery;; die was thrown, and suspense was at an end. She now determined to perform ail the duties of her station with the most rigid punduality, hoping that constant occupation, together with some degree of enthusiasm (if fly should be able, to attain it) would at last reconcile her to the rigour
. O
of her fate. In this pious resolution fly continued some days, when one morning fly was called to the parlour; she there found an old Gentleman, who said“ “dear Miss, I was an inti ‘‘ mate friend of your late father’s, * “and have now been absent from this 2 “part
t 23® ]
** part of the world for some years, “upon account of a lawsuit which
was tried at toloufep He then ex preflfed his surprise at feeing her in a religious habit, saying. My dear child, what could induce you, who had so genteel a fortune, to make a nun of yourself? Alas! Sir, replied the poor girl, you are, 1 find, deceived as much as I have been. No, no, I had no fortune, my father left me none; and that circumstance alone has induced me to renounce a world which I had no means of living in with honour. My God! (cried the Gentleman) who could have told you such a falsity I myself am one of the trustees to your father's will, and know for a certainty, that he left you six thousand pounds at his death, which must be much increased Since that time. This money was to be paid you at the age of
eighteen,
\
I
[ 237 ]
eighteen, or on the day of your msit^ riage; and in cafe of your death before either of those periods, the money was to be your guardian’s. She heard no more, but fainted off her chair, and was carried to bed by some nuns whom the Gentleman runo; for, on
O ' \
Seeing her fall on the other fide of the grate, where it was imposhble for him to give her any ashftance. I leave you to imagine what were her reflections on the return of her fenses. Two or three days sooner had this man made his appearance, she might have been as happy as she was now wretched. She implored divine vengeance on the head of her inhuman guardian, then lamented and condemned her too great precipitation in taking the veil; and in short, was half distracted with love, rage, remorse, and despair. these passions were too violent to last; fire therefore
after
/
i
%
\
t 238 ]
after Some time fell into a kind of stupid melancholy from which nothing had been found capable of rousing her, till a young nun who had profelsed some months before her, called her - attention by her unwearied assiduities to comfort and relieve her distress. She had herself a tender heart, and was
ft
therefore touched at the Sympathising tears which her friend often shed over her misfortunes. Soothed by her gentle manners and affectionate attendance on her, she at last unlocked her heart to receive the Sweet balm of friendship. The stories of these two girls were
t
alike; both abhorred the convent, and flghed for those pleasures, which, as they were strangers to them, they fup poled were exquisite. The world they pidured to themselves as a theatre on Vvbiich afl the actors were happy, because they enjoyed love and liberty.
This
I •
[ 239 I
This flmilitude of taste and judge -- ment gave birth to a reciprocal friendship between them, which was sob, lowed by a mutual confidence in each other, in which they found some alleviation to their sorrows;; one day St. Agnes (for that, was the name of. our fair sufferer's friend) told her, that she had 'agreed with a young officer, who had long been her lover, to make her escape with him; and she now inr. treated her. friend to accompany her, ', promising to put her into the hands of her lover, whose father,, she informed her, was lately dead, immensely rich; a sturing her, .that the young man would, receive her with rapture, and fly to; Holland immediately with all his treasure, where they would have nothing
J
to fear from the purfiiitof the priests. This fly told her fly had heard from, the gentleman’s own mouth; adding,
And
%
. 240 ]
And now, my dear, everything will be ready for our flight at the beginning of next week, when the old wall of the convent (you know) is to be pulled down; it is propped at present in such a manner, that it would be no difficult matter for either you or 1 to push it down towards the garden; and for fear any one should do so, they are going to repair it. However, we will walk off first:; but we must, I believe, be forced to play the hypocrite for the first day or two of the breach, as we are the youngest nuns, or we shall perhaps be too closely watched upon the * occasion. Let us therefore never approach the wall, nor look at the people, who will enter by hundreds, in order to see the interior part of a nunnery; but affect to shudder at the indecency and impropriety of a coii / vent’s being laid open tq the world in
'such
V
0
N
[ 241 ]
Such a shocking manner. The day after this conversation had passed between them, St. Agnes gave her friend a letter from her lover, which confirmed all. she had advanced the day before in his favour; this determined our heroine to follow her friend. Her Spirits now began to exhilerate, and she, with difficulty concealed from the penetrating eyes of her fifter nuns, the effect which the prolsted of abandoning them and their house for ever, had upon her joyous mind. The important time now approached; the hearts of our fair adventurers beat high with expectation of love and liberty; when on the morning of that day which they had fixed on for escaping through the garden, as soon as it grew dushy, and that the nuns were retired to their cells; on that very day, St. Agnes being sitting at work among all her Sisters in the Yol. II R commun,
\
[ 242; i
commun, fell off her ehair in a fit, occasioned (as is supposed) from the too violent agitation which her Spirits had undergone for some days before.' They cut her lace, threw water in her face, Seilt for a.furgeon to bleed her; and iri short, used every possible means to recover her, but in vain; her soul had taken its flight, and she never showed any signs of life from the moment she fell. I shall not attempt to describe what were the feelings of her fhend, whilst: she contemplated the features of ' her now departed St. Agnes. Her senses 'fled at the light. She vras conveyed to her chamber, wshicre two nuns who conllantiy watched her, were not sufficient to hold her *, to such a degree was her frenzy grown in a few hours. A piece of paper which had fallen out of St. agnes’s bosom, vrhen they unlaced her, let them into the whole contrivance
/ '
■ • f
[ 243 ]
t
trivance and designs of these unhappy girls. It was a letter from the officer, fettling all the preliminaries prior .to their intended elopement. All danger was now over from that quarter, as one of the Ladies was dead, and the other raving mad; in which state this unfortunate creature continued for near six years, at which period of time file regained her senses, but never either her health or spirits. My hand aches with writing so violently that I have hardly power to subscribe myself, my dear Lady Lucy, ever yours,
i
Farnahy Abley. J. Bolton, ’
1
End of Vol. II
I
■ 4 dfr ■ •... •
■; T "A.
. ' ■ ^ • ■.
» •. •. ■
# L •. '
V,, /. ■, ■•,. ■ ■ ' •
■■ ■': '■ / T
A
. - • y
N'
'' * i. •.. •... '■ • r •
h. 1. • N. ', •...
'. _ I. • •. • ... ^ • •
ft.. ' ‘,
• V * ^ :
. •' i' " ' ' ■ A \ 4 ^. ', ' ■.
, ft.. ■ * * • - \ • •.. '' ■
'V
*•. 1. ’ ♦ ' • ’ •
-., • w ■ ■ :. .^- ■ ■ i ' ' ’.
• /' * V. ’ ' •. ' - - * •.
J.. • • ■ ^ ‘.
/ * _. •, '
\. ■ •.
, - - ft.
'r, I - •. ' •
>. • T ■ " ■ •
• • ’
»■ • •• y \ ^ » ■ *
■* -■. -. - r - < y ■ ■ ft
; • ft • »
. ft ^
•,
I ^ ■■■ .' '; ■■,,. ■ '
i,, ' •.
''. N •..., ■• '• • ■,.
■ A.. • • ' * •. ■
*.. '
■ S. - ’ V ■ _ • ■.
'* ■ ‘ »»*••; /■■*•
'■, 4
; -....
1
• T -,
y V •* "
• - ^. *
. » •.. * ' *
f ■..
X • ■ * '. •
L: :
%
*

\
\
f
b
0
•' te Nf' " ■ " '
■ a’;. - ^v si -- - ♦
'; ■; VI '‘riafffr..
''^mfpz m A
-, ' '
■ ^iii...’ L ' •
■ ■ ■"'" : 'bl, CLCNL.,...
'e ■ '. '-• • p
. •'.' •. ■ — - : ■ -
- • SC. ■ ■ ' I
.ft • •
'- t,
\iiao{* — we/tc(«rtkai\.
kdaf -'
t.
V
«
9
Sj^bk i * '^ '' ’^aot^^f^wd.0i: L'....4S^\ .esfjribem^^^^^^ amtasc
■ KAF : LX, A.
.. ..' 4,, 'ii' ' ■•.. 'Nf 1
, ss'kuny l '■ r •■■'• *.■ I
T • A ir r t V -• •* I '■!|
■ A C ’^'''; liss"
"■ • ' fe- -- ■ ': ^
'•JM7 '■• dr' -' V •• / -/.
'■ • *
i •. J \ 0 ' ‘r ' -..%
. •• ■^" Ad.. >j't nwr '^r^^
'■ >'■.., ' r\^a’ ■ d * '. '■/


^
-|^ <2>z3 anssm
GODFREY F. SINQER I
j MR. AND MRS. JACOB SINGER H
^ iv; ^ '\ .^smmsmbhbfc^^ab^^^^^^mpm > 'V' ja: -: -
IBS. ..' ‘.is* ?*w^r^.‘cj»»^mebmm^ir.amig#y«mbhg|fr: ir *^, .r.. ^mmsbs ?/ jbmbkmhi
■■ .0 '■ ' %
* ...
• ’ r'h, -
A
4
i
\
«
t
4
V - -
. * ' V''
'' ■
'At.
; i : ■ ■' ■
»•'
'
ANECDOTES
V
o. F A '
\
CONVENT.
By the A u T H o R of MEMOIRS of Mrs. WILLIAMS.
In THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IIL
— — ..... '. —.. "zs: :; :;
LONDON,
Printedfor T. Becket and P. A. dehondt, ■
in the Strand.
— ^____
S M.DCC.LXXI?
V
«
ft
■ ■ I.. ■' ' ■■■■■■■■ I !■ Ml ■■III I
LET T E R S
/
BETWEEN
t
therighthon.ladyl\jcyscott. and the Hon. Miss Bolton.
The Right Hon. Lady Lucy Scott to the Hon. Miss Bolton.
I
AF T E R a very pleasant jour..
during which Lady Jane. practifed the name of Neville,
till I am heartily sick. of it already;
^ vte arrived safe and well at hopton hall, and were met by Lord and Lady Kelfo and their fon, with the highest: " demonstrations of joy: Lady Plumfiead and her daughter, you may be sure, preceded me. Whilst compliments Vol. III B in
✓
0
, V '
4
[ 2 j
in abundance were paying them, I. took a sly look at Lord Malcom, who, in return, looked tenderly, and joyously at my Ladyship. Lady Plum jiead then presented me as a young Lady of birth, merit, and fortune,, who was placed under her care and protection, on the decease of her parents, who were, She said, her particular friends. My Lady Kelfo hugged me to her breast, and the old Lord paid several very polite compliments ' to my person, and my Lord bowed respedfully to miss Neville. As my father is an older peer than ladyjane’s, she frequently forgets herself, and is pushing me into the room before her, when I am obliged to pinch her, in order to make her recoiled that I am her inferior. I admire the situation of. this house, Julia; it is romantic, and agreeable beyond description: :

[ '3 'I
Such a number of hills, dales, wood ^ and water, as renders it an earthly paradise: Then I like the owners of it vastly. Lord Kelfofis an accomplished man of fashion of the last age, very gallant; and as he knows Lady Jane is on the verge of matrimony, he flirts it a good deal with me; his fon looks grave and shy at me, because, when we are obliged to ad a part, we generally over do it; his behaviour is there' ' constrained and cold, from a terror lest he should betray any tenderness,, me. The other day after dinner I went up to the harpflchord, but finding it locked, was quitting it; when Lord Kelfo said, why, Augufius, what are you about? give the key of that instrument to the muse, who wants to play upon it, and who will,
I am persuaded, show that she excels in music, as she does in everything
B 2 Ihe.
■
[ 4 ]
she undertakes. Lord Malcom frniled <
X
at the reproof, and, begging pardon 'for his absence, declared, that he had not observed me •, (though, by the bye, my dear, he observes nothing elfe) then approaching me, he presented the key, squeezing my hand at the same time. Lord Kelfo cried,
“won’t you open it for the Lady?
“Lord! the young fellows of this “age are not half so attentive and “gallant as they were in my time.” So saying, he advanced, opened the instrument, and fet me a chair, requesting politely that I would accompany it with my voice. You know, my dear, that I am rather vain of my musical talents, foi instantly began to play and fing a, favourite air in one of the new operas. The old peer (who is, I find), a great admirer of music, listened to me with a pleased attention;
and
I
[ 5 ]
and when I had done, he exclaimed,. Heavens, ’tis very lucky for me that I am not five and twenty! for if I was, you would infallibly turn my head, Miss Neville, you are such a Syren. I bowed my thanks, when he desired his fon to accompany me with the flute; he fetched it immediately, and (to say no more than the truth) we formed an agreeable concert between us. The old Nobleman appeared in raptures during the performance, and when it was over, he declared that it was too much for one woman to possess such beauty, talents, and merit, as I did; adding, that any one of the three would have been sufficient to have made all mankind my Haves. Lady Kelfo laughing, said“ “truce 'T “with your compliments, my Lord, or I ffiall be ferioully jealous of “Miss Neville." Many other oblig
B 3 ing
/
I
[ 6 ]
ing things were Said in my praise by the two old Ladies, all of which were calculated to raise me in the opinion of Lord Kelfo : I knew their motive, and therefore was not offended at their flattery, which at another time I should have thought very ill placed.
Lord Malcom, Lady Jane, and I, frequently, when the weather will permit, ride out on horseback together; when the former makes himself amends for the restraint he is under of concealing his passion from his father. 'Tis on these occasions that his tongue
t o
expresses the overflowings of a grateful heart, for my ready compliance with his presumptuous plan (as he calls it); and I, laughing, tell him, that I only did it to oblige myself. Lady Kelfo told me yesterday (when She and I were alone) that fly was the happiest of beings, in the hope of soon
calling
[ 7 ]
calling me her daughter. Did not I tell you, my dear, said she, kissing me, that my Lord Kelfo could never relist the power of your attractions?? we were going to bed last night, he said to me, “My dear, the more I
I
“see of Miss Neville, the more I ad“ “her; I really think her, in “every respect, the most desirable“ “woman I ever knew; and if “I was a young fellow of fortune, “and she not worth a groat, I declare “I would prefer her in her shift to all “the rest of her Sex. What a happy “man must he be who can obtain her “heart; but perhaps her affections“ “already engaged, and if So, Au“ “is let into the Secret, and that “is the reason why he appears infen “stble to the charms of So lovely a “girl; for I cannot conceive it poffi ‘‘ ble to look at her with indifference.
B 4., “I
[ 8 ]
4
“I am sure, if he can, he has no “blood of mine in his veins. I wish“ “heart had been free when she“ “here, because I think Lord “Malcom and (he would have’ made,
“not only a very amiable, but a very “happy couple.” I smiling, answered, (said Lady Kelfo) I think so too, my Lord, and perhaps Augufius is in love with Miss Neville, but does not choose to declare himself till he is certain of, having your approbation.' He cannot doubt of that, replied he, for I have Shown my admiration of the young Lady as much as I possibly could, in order to encourage him to make his addrefies to her; and if I am not vastly mistaken, the Sweet girl has no aversion to him. Here v/e dropped the Subject, Said her Ladyship: : “now. Lady Lucy, you See things “will just: turn out as I foresaw they
“would
. —
s
ft
[ 9 ]'
“would, and Lord Kelfo will propose the match to his fon and Lady Plumfiead, as a thing he has Set his “heart upon.” I begged that affairs might not be precipitated, as I told _ her Ladyship — I v/iflied Lord Kelfo to, have a longer acquaintance with me before I discovered myself, left, as his present approbation of me for a daughter in law, was rather an affair of taste than j Lidgment; he might, upon knowing my real name, change his opinion of me, from its not having had time
'O •
to take fushcient root in his mind.
Her Ladyship replied, that upon that head, as well as on all others, 1 should command; nor would she ais in the affair, but as I dictated.
Lord Plumfiead left us the day after our arrival here, and we don’t exactly Icnow the time of his return: Lady Plumfiead tells us, that the father of
my
I
[ To ]
my lover has had frequent conversations with her on the subject: of my marriage with his fon, as he takes her Ladyship, to be my guardian. She an fv/ers him, that the affair muff, in a great measure, depend upon the young people; and that when they have declared themselves upon the subject, she will begin to think Seriously of the matter. In this situation are my affairs at present; where I shall leave them to tell you, that I yesterday had a letter from Mrs. Lewis, in which she writes me, that on her brother’s return to his wife, after expreshng her joy at feeing him again, she informed her husband that she had Secured her jewels by a stratagem, which was this: She had laid the plan with Fletcher for her going off with Mr. Hackit, and he was to go on some pretence out of town, in order to appear not to know
any
V
[ II ]
anything of the matter; and lest it should look like a concerted thing, he proposed her staying a day or two after his departure, before she fet out for Scotland. - She promised obedience to his commands; but on feeing him depart, formed the scheme of going off the very day he did, lest the girl, who was with her, might have had orders to infsteft her baggage, so as to have Suffered her to take only what Eletcher pleased away with her. She therefore sent the girl of an errand, which, to execute, would take her a considerable time; and then flew to her lover, who was ready to receive her in a post c'haise and four; so that Fletcher was in fast, as much surprised at her elopement as he affected to be. She was induced to aft in this manner, fly told Mr. Hackit, from an incident which happened at Tork races. “A Lady
4 “one
■ [ 12 ]
one night sitting next her in the.
O O
“aflembly room, admired her jewels, “saying, they were very fine, and “had, she perceived, been fet in the “Eafi indies; adding, I cannot be mistaken in that circumstance, be“ “I myself have Some mounted “in the Same way, wshich I bought “Iri India', and your nosegay, Miss“ “vastly like one I have seen Mrs. “Homes wear at Madrafs, which was “given her by a Nabob, as her hus i “band was then governor of the “place.” I took the liberty of ashing this Lady her name; she answered“ “and I live in golden fquarep I did not think proper to discover myself to her in a public place, so was contented for that time, with carefully retaining in my memory her name and, place of abode. I now made no doubt but the jewels in question had been
stolen
j
[ '3 ]
stolen from my father by the vvilkers and their gang; and therefore, from that time determined to keep them in my poiteffion, if possible, till Mrs. ivilker (who pretended that they were hers, and fly only lent me the use of them) could prove a legal right to them. They have, I am pretty certain, been valued at upwards of ten thousand pounds; and if so, as I really believe them to be, lawfully and justly my property, we need not starve
t
Mr. Hackit. I wrote a line to Fletcher, which I left upon the table on the day of my escape;; which I narrated to him, verbatim, the conversation which had passed between the Lady and I at the rooms; telling him that I was determined to keep the jewels till he could prove to me that I had no right to them; which, when lie would do, I gave my word of honour to restore
them
%
I
[14]
them to him exactly as I had received them from Mrs. Wilker. Mr.' Hackit justly applauded his wife’s prudence, and Kitty tells me they are now gone to town, in order to find out Mrs. Stmth. I most heartily wish them success in their inquiries; for I am convinced that Mrs. Wilker and her brother are vile people, as I am, my dearest Julia, that George Boothhy is a dangerous man. I suppose you are in 'London by this time, so have directed iuy letter there. The country is, in my mind, beginning to be in its greatest beauty now, when we are going to quit it; however, ’tis a good time of the year for travelling. I hope you won’t fet out for Baris before I reach London; let me know when you shave fixed the time, for that reason. Lord Malcom desires his best respects;; Jane wcites herself, and all thank
you
/
[ 15 1
you for the history of the nun; for though it made us cry, yet it assured us what a hard fate was hers. Think of that, Julia, and cease to repine. Adieu, my dear girl, I die to See you.
Yours, c' '
Lucy Scott..
I,
P. S. Mrs. Lewis tells me that Susan looks cheerful, and grows fat.
Miss Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott..
I
WT' T 1 ' T •
IL have now been a week in. town, my dear Lucy, where I most impatiently wish to see your Ladyship. The play (I vronst say farce) you are acting, Seems to be drawing; towards the last aft, if not quite the last scene: : Sincerely .give you joy on your success; though it could not admit of a doubt, if Lord Kelfo made
• ‘ any
'[ i6 ]
any use of his five Senses. We were all invited to dine at Sir Francis mer tod.s yesterday; his Lady honoured the table with her presence : The young couple had been presented the day before to her Catholic Ladyship, and were most graciomly received, as were the rest'of the bride’s family yesterday; but So reserved is her natural address, that : fly almost froze me. Lady Ludlow perceived the esteft it had upon me, and Smilingly Said, ’tis very cold, Miss Bolton, but i’ll stir the fire for you. My Lady Merton is a fine woman still, but there’s a dejection in her countenance which gives one pain to look at her; occasioned, I suppose, by the demolition of all her Schemes and labours with regard to her Son. I own I could not help feeling for her; for if she really believes that there is no Salvation out of the pale of her
: own
0
I
[ I? ]
own church, it must be a dreadful rc fleftion that her husband and only child are both irrevocably doomed to everlasting misery. What a pity it is that this poor woman has not less faith and more charity!
Louisa e il fuo Caro fpofo^, Aodge, pretty near us; so that we are perpetually together; it was thought right by the old folks, that the young ones should live by themselves for Some tirne at least The other day I went to pay, a viflt to a distant relation of my mother's (Lady Clayton), where I found a good deal of company. On my cou fin’s mentioning my name, a young gentleman, who sat near me, lo Ashg ■ steadfastly at me, said“ “me,
“Madam, if I take the liberty of “• afldng you, if you are not acquaint *
* dear husband,
, ill. C “ed
• t
%
[ i8 ].
ed with Lady Lucy Scott ?” afllir edly. Sir, I replied, I have that honour; Ihe is my most intimate friend, and you live with Mr. Boothhy, Madam I I do. Sir.” He now begged pardon for interrogating me thus, telling me his name' was Hackit; when turning to as pretty a woman almost as I ever saw, he took her by the hand; and, presenting her to me, he said. This is my wife, Miss Bolton, to whose story you can be no stranger, I am sure. I Saluted her, and Said Some civil things upon the occaflon. Lady Clayton, I found, was perfectly ac. quainted with their affairs; I therefore ventured to ask Mr. Hackit what he had done with that wretch Wilker and her brother? They are gone off, • '
lie replied, no body knows whither;
• ^
but we have made some irnportant discoveries, which, when ever you,
■’ miss
[ 19 T
Miss Bolton, will permit my wife and I the honour of waiting upon you, we will communicate, as a continuation of my wife’s story; the former part of * which you have probably heard from Lady Lucy Scott. I Said, I had; and should be extremely glad of their company, as well as to render them all the services in my power as my friend’s deputy, who I knew had their interests warmly at heart; and that, I myself, was by her much prejudiced in thdr favour. Mrs. Hackit spoke upon many subjects during the course of the afternoon and always with great good sense and modesty. I like her much; her husband seems to be very fond of her, which gives me great pleasure. I find they are at law with Sir Jasper for the estate which the young man’s grandfather left him. He tells me that his title to the pof
C 2 feshon
1
E 20 ]
session of it, when he became of age, is proved past a doubt by the old man’s will; so they will have five hundred pounds a year at least, besides a sum of money, and Mrs. Hackifs jewels, in spite of Sir Jasper; and with these they may contrive to live decently till his death. What barbarians are those parents, who can thus rob their children of their bread, merely to enrich themselves! Avarice, my dear Lucy, is a vice which I cpuld never understand; ’tis strange to wish to acquire what we have not spirit to make any use of.
Mr. Boothhy told me a ‘thing the other day, which greatly surprised me; it was, that upon my absolute refusal of Lord Malcom, he had flung my fortune immediately into Chancery; for, said he, as I perceived that you was determined, Miss Bolton, to take
5 a wrong
/
[ 21 1,
a wrong flep, in spite of all my endeavours to prevent it, I have put you under the care of the Lord High Chancellor, by whom you must be guided, and who will mofl certainly, from the duty of his office, put the man into prison, 'and punish him other ways who shall dtee to marry you without his permission whilst you are under age. I looked very grave, and answered, that it was pretty much the same thing to me, since I should not find his Lordship more averse to my happiness than he himself had ever been. Yet, Lucy, I am sorry he has done so, because I sometimes hoped to mollify him on the subject;; ’tis,
I really believe, for fear that I should have succeeded, that he has put it out of his power to be persuaded. The strict probity of this worthy man ought to be a model for all guardians
C 3 to
\
i
[ 22 ]
to copy from. I must how wait on the Chancellor, it seems, to' alk his leave before I can quit the kingdom. My God! what plagues arc riches? How readily would 1 relinquish my ■ large fortune to be made mistress of myself, and ten thousand pounds only at this very moment! And then' — but hold — how difficult is it for us to plan out our own happiness?? our wishes, if attained, might make us wretched. I shall therefore follow the advice of that great philosopher Marcus Aurelius, who says, “resign“ “cheerfully into the hands of ‘‘ fate, to dispose of thee just as it “pleases.” George Boothhy has taken chambers in the Temple •, 1 seldom have seen him since the conversation which passed between him and I in the garden at Farnahy Ahhey; he has behaved to me with an air of distant
respect
\

[ 23 ]
reljpeft from that time'. I don't apprehend any violence from him now, that my fortune is secured in Chancery; ' but perhaps he may not yet be informed of that circumstance;; I fancy he is too, and that’s probably the reason of his behaving so very cool to me: however, the first opportunity I can find, I will mention the affair before him.
Lady Jane writes me, that you and your lover ogle one another at so unmerciful a rate, that fly is amazfed all the house don’t discover the mutual passion you have for each other. But one must feel the distemper one’s self (file says) in order to read as accurately as She does in the book of love; or otherwise, She avers, that your whole plot had been discovered on the meeting of you and your lover, though neither of you spoke. She tells me
C 4 file
V
[ 24 ]
she longs to return to town, and enquires much after your brother, who,
I must say, is very good, for we see him almost every day; though I suppose his chief rnotive for coming is, to talk of his lovely Jenny (as he calls her) for he is never tired of the theme. Lord and Lady Longfdown were well yesterday, I spent two hours with them at their own house: : want you home sadly. I am to go to a masquerade at comely’s next week; I hate the thing, but must comply with the entreaties of my friends : Lord Tatton is to be my beau, that’s an inducement. Lady Ludlow, Sir Francis, Mr. and Mrs. Merton, your brother, and myself, are the party. Louisa is so absorbed in love and matrimony, that I am quite lost for a companion. Do make haste back
f. J "... r'..
to
[ 25 ]
to the arms of my dear lucy’s most:, affectionate and faithful friend.
South audley fireet. Julia Bolton.
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
ft
WE have had a ball here, my dear Julia; Lord Malcom was obliged (because of her quality) to dance with Lady Jane. Miss Neville. wanting a title, was engaged by a young rustic, who squeezed my fingers almost: off, and twirled me round so violently, that it was with difficulty I could keep myself upon my legs: he called me Miss at every word. I thought Lady Jane would have expired with laughing at us; her partner, however, was not quite so well diverted at the scene as Ihe was, for ■ he looked both grave and angry at the clown, who was, I find, a man of
ft. » ’i
. family ' ^
ft
♦
[ 26 ]
family and fortune; nay, he told me so himself, and ended with saying“ “‘‘ will you have me, Miss?” ?” answered. No. “Why, that’s, short, said he; but “what is the matter with me ?” Nothing that I kpovv of, answered I, only I am already engaged. “Nay, nay, that’s quite another thing (cried “he), now you speak sense; I thought there was something in the wind, “or you would not have been so ready “to refuse a hearty young fellow with “twelve hundred pounds per annum “in his pocket; for my part I love “constancy, and so you are in the “right to stick to your first choice; “but I am sorry though that your “heart’s bespoke, for I would have “married you though you had not ‘‘ been worth a groat, look ye, for I “love to please my eye.” 1 thanked him for his generous intentions, and
2 did
\
•1
t 27 ]
\ \
did not fail to boast' the next day of the advantageous offer I had made me by the squire. Lord Kelfo looked thoughtful, after I had related the conversation which passed between my ■, sweetheart and I, not liking, V suppose, to hear that my asteftions were engaged. Miss Neville, said his lord stiip, I am not in the least surprised that beauty like yours Should have the same power which Iphigene’% had on / Cymon \ but I own myself sorry to hear from your own mouth, ' that your heart is dilpofed of; I flattered myself that you had brought it with you to hopton hall. I answered smilingly, indeed, my Lord, you judged very right, for I have it with me here at this very moment; but I was obliged •to say something in order to get rid of the man’s impertinence. I am heartily glad, replied he, to find that you was.
not
» **
[ 28 ]
not serious in the declaration. After dinner. Lady Jane was called upon for her toast; Ihe gave Lord Tatton, I Harry Boothhy: And when Lord malcom’s turn came, he said Lady Lucy Scott. I coloured from surprise, *, Kelfo observed me, and, I believe, was in hopes that, the emotion ' which I had shown on the mentioning of that lady’s name proceeded fronj jealousy. He ashed me if I knew Lady Lucy? My answers confirmed his suspicions;; upon his inquiries of me, whether ■ she was really as handsome and amiable as fame spoke her to be? I answered Ilightly, that there was no deciding on taste, but that in my own opinion Ihe was neither amiable nor handsome. Lady Plumfiead, her daughter, and Lord Malcom, all contradicted my afsertion warmly, vowing, I could not think as I spoke. I had
much
1
[ 29 ]
much ado to keep my countenance during this ridiculous dispute. When we arose from table. Lord Kelfo took his sin’s arm, and they walked into the Park: we women went to cards. On the return of the Gentlemen, I complained of being tired of play; upon which Lord Kelfo politely .offered to take my place; I most readily resigned the seat to him, and immediately venta walking with Lord Malcom. He then told me with rapture, that his father had proposed his making his addresses to me, as being, in his opinion, a person calculated to make any man happy in the marriage state, sdc. Lord Malcom answered shis father by a ready obedience to his will; upon which, in order to encourage him, I suppose, he declared he - was much deceived if Miss Neville had not an inclination for him; at least, he
was
*
\
[ 3° ]
was sure that he was not indifferent to
t
her. He then asked his Son, if his heart was really touched by my personal charms, as vrell as with my accomplishments? To which he replied, that he had loved me from the first moment he ever saw me, and had only suppressed the declaration of his passion till he was more thoroughly accjuaint ed with his father’s sentiments on the lady’s character and foitune, Cfr. as it was his fixed determination never to marry without his lordftiip’s approbation of his choice. I not only approve of it you see, Augujlus, said his father, but strongly recommend Mil's nevule to you as a wife; if you are not happy with her, I am sure it will be your own fault. Well, Sir, replied his fon, this very day I will declare my pretensions to the Lady; but give me leave to observe to you, that
my
I
1
• •
t 3> ]
my passions .are strong, and when once fixed, they are so for life; therefore I flatter myself that I may depend upon your Heady approbation of this match; for ffiould any imforefeen objection arise to infipede our union, I candidly tell you, Sir, that I shall never be brought to relinquish the possession of so fine a girl, let your reasons be what they will. O, as to that, matter, answered Lord Kelfo, you may rely upon my not altering the resolution I have taken of joining you together. I am too thoroughly convinced of the lady’s rnerit ever to change my mind; and if her fortune don’t turn out to be the half as much as Lady Plumftead. seems to suppose it to be, that Shall .make no difference with me, as ’tis the woman I want for you, not the money. i.ord Mdcom and I agreed for him to inform his father, that I
had
/
[ 32 ]
had received his addresses in the most favourable manner. On our return into the drawing-room, the old Lord
looked at his fon and me with an en
#
eye; we both appeared iri good-humour, and pleased with each other, which I saw his Lordship observed with pleasure. The next day he Surprised Lord Malcom kissing my hand; I blushed; when he Said, my
e - f.
dear miss Neville, don’t be ashamed of making a worthy young man, who adores you, happy; and, in return, '
, his mother and I will make it the bu
.4
finess of our lives to contribute to your mutual felicity, if you will confirm ours by consenting to become one of the family. Indeed, my dear young Lady (continued he), we are so charmed with your company, that we cannot bring ourselves ever to consent to part with it. I told his Lordship, that I
thought
( s3 1
thought myself much honoured by his choice, aflliring him, that I should use
*
utmost endeavours to render myself worthy the favourable opinion he had so kindly conceived of me. Then you consent to be my child, do' you,
Miss Neville? Say so, my lovely girl (continued he); I felt confused, and answered, yes, my Lord, if my friends approve of it. He killed me, and then presenting my hand to his fon. There, Augufius, said he, take her, and try to deserve Such a treasure if you can. He now left us in order to ask Lady plumjiead.s consent to our union, as he fuppqses me to be her ward, and that she has the disposal of ■ me; she had her leflbn, and therefore told his Lordship, that I' had a few distant relations whom it was necessary to confuit on the occasion;; that she could. pretty well answer for their Vol. III D ready
'f ^
t
t 34 ]
\
ready acquiescence to the match. A few days after all these things were thus happily fettled (I still inststing that my real nanie should not be discovered till I had received my father's consent to my marriage, for which purpose I had wrote to my mother), Ibrd Plumjlead arrived at the hall. After the first compliments were over, he Said, looking at me, “My dear “Lady Lucy, I beg your pardon, but “I have a packet of letters here, “which came for you a week ago, ‘‘ and I did not Send them to you, as “I expected to be here every day “since I got them; but Lord and “Lady Longfdown, your brother Lord “Tatton, and all the rest of your “friends are well.” Guess (if you can) at my confusion, and Lord kel so’s surprise at the close of this speech. I instantly rose, and approaching him,
2 Said
4
I
t 35 1
Said, forgive me. Sir, for thus deceiving you, I have no apology to make but the .true one; it was the tender re ’, guard which Lord Malcom and I had long flnce conceived for each other, and the fear of your disapprobation of me for a daughter in law, that induced us to form this innocent Scheme in order to obtain your consent to our union : Do, dear Sir, said I, forgive Lady Lucy Scott, in favour of your favourite Miss Neville. He caught me in his arms, and pressing me to his' bosom, with his eyes full of tears, cried, forgive you, my angel! you have no forgiveness to ask of me; 'tis I that am to entreat your pardon, for not having paid you all the respect: due to your rank. I thought, some hours ago, that I could not have loved you better than I then did; but my ad,, ' of your character is much
D 2 heightened
O
. f
'' I
I 36 1
heightened from what I have just learned. What condescending goodness is yours, thus to have stooped to the humouring of an old man’s caprice, in order to preserve the peace of your lover’s family! for I will not deny, continued he, that had my consent been alked before I had known you. Lady Lucy, I should most indubitably have refused it. My prejudices are now all vanished (said he), and have given place to the warmest sentiments of friendship and esteem towards every individual of my sweet girl’s family. Here he rose from his seat, when taking Lord malcom’s hand and mine, he joined them, saying, thus, my dear children, I unite you, may God blel you both, you are indeed worthy of one another. He then embraced us with an emotion of tenderness, that melted all present. Lady keif’s joy
at
i
I
T '37 3
at this sc^ne was inexpressible. I am now reinstated into my long lost honours; Lord Kelfo has wrote to my father, Lady Kelfo to my mother; Lord Malcom and I have followed their example, so that in a few months my romance will, I suppose, end as they all do, in matrimony; for after that, a heroine is not worth mentioning, the parson gives the coup de grace, and she is never heard of more. i
Lord Plumfiead laughed heartily at his ^ etourderie (as he justly called it), but vowed he had totally'forgot that my name was Neville. We easily pardoned him in favour of the event;. and, in fast, it proved as good a b denoument to the t petite piece, as we could possibly have invented.
{
i i i ......
* Blunder. f End. J Farce.,
D 3 ' Hong
t
[ 38 1
I long vastly to hear shore of the Haekits, Julia; God send the poor girl may get her fortune again; pray my kind compliments to them. Your guardian has acted like himself, and I am not sorry for what he has done, as I think it will effectually check all george’s schemes against you, for Schemes he had I am certain; therefore the sooner you acquaint him with the circumstance the better, I think. Adieu, my ever dear Julia, I wish you more pleasure than you seem to propose to yourself in going to Soho. A masquerade is well enough to see once; but as every individual mash ought to have wit, in order to support their relpeftive characters, and that, unfortunately, but few of them are helped even with common sense, the scene after the first quarter of an hour becomes (in my opinion) excefsively -
stupid,
, I
/
[ 39 J
stupid, and even tragical; for one cannot help sighing as Xerxes did on another occasion, on looking at his army; not that they would all be dead'
'in a few years', but that the world should have produced such a number of fools, and the wife be obliged to herd with them. Adieu, my ever dear friend, yours faithfully,
ft. \
hopton hall. Lucy Scott.
Mrs. Merton to the Right Hon. Lady
Lucy Scott.
I
(
Dear Madam,
AS I am no stranger to the sincere friendship which has from infancy fubfisted between your Ladyship and Miss Bolton, I can easily imagine what must be your anxiety, at not hearing from your Julia: I have therefore preferred the being a mestenger of
D 4, ill
/
'
[ 40 ]
ill news, rather than suffer your la dyship to remain under a painful suspense with regard to your friend; but how shall I find courage to wound your gentle bosom with the terrible event I have to relate You doubtless was informed by Miss Bolton that we were ali to go to a masquerade at car lijle House; we did so, Lord Tatton. was to have the care of Julia. There was a prodigious crowd, so that we were obliged to walk two by two, and were frequently separated from the reff of our company, because we could not •walk abreast. Miss Bolton danced with your ladyship’s brother; I looked at them sometime, when growing weary with standing, I went into another room to seek a seat, there being none empty in that they were dancing in.
I had not been there long before I saw my Lord Tatton coming up to me;
when,
I
ft
t 41 ]
when,, with an air of surprise, he said, Mrs. Merton, where is Miss Bolton? I thought die had been with .you : I left her (continued he) in the ballroom whilst I fetched her a glass of negus, and, on my return, could not find her. My God 1 cried I, I have never seen her since I left your Lordship and her a dancing together above half an hour ago. We instantly all agreed to fet out different vrays in search of her, as we supposed she might probably have gone into one of the other rooms, in quest of a seat as vre had done : We sought, however,
■ in vain throtfgh all the apartments, and in every corner of the house; ypur brother and Mr. Merton inquired of every chairman and hackney coachmen if they had seen a young Lady (describing her dress) go away? But were an fv/ered, thatfo maiwpeople passed and
repassed
0
/ \ f 42 ] '
V
repassed perpetually, that they had made no observations on any one in particular. Distracted with terror on her account they returned to us: We were all at a loss to conceive what was become of her; when Lady Ludlow said, perhaps she was tired, and had slipped home unperceived, left out of politeness Lord Tatton Should have supposed it necessary to have accompanied her. This thought (though improbable) made his, Lordship get into a chair, and go immediately to my father’s to inquire after her; but. he Soon returned to inform us that Ihe had never been at home. I shall not attempt to describe the agony this piece of intelligence flung us all into. However, finding that She was certainly not in Carlijle house, we resolved all to leave the place and go to my father’s : we did So, and waked the good
old
\
[ 43 ]
old man to tell him that his ward was lost. He, as you must suppose, was under the utmost consternation and concern, at hearing our account of the matter. — It was now three o’clock in the morning; advertisements were wrote instantly, and sent to all the daily papers, offering a vafc reward to the person who would give any, light into this mysterious affair. My father, poor man, whose affliction is extreme,
I
waited on the Chancellor the next morning; his Lordship promised to take every possible method of finding out either the Lady or her raviftier. Notice is given to all the turnpikes, inns, seaports, to Stop her and her companion (supposing She has one) wherever they shall be met with, on pain of high penalties. Indeed, Madam, we are all lost in a chaos of con jedures, to divine what has happened
to
I ■ ' ■
r, 44 ]
i
to this dear girl, and where she can be gone to, and wdth whom; we know she had no attachment to any man but my brother Harry, and he is abroad; nor do we know of any gentleman’s having paid his addresses to her since my' Lord Malcom, and he is a man of' honour, and engaged to your Ladyship. In short, we are all miserable about her; my father and mother are really
almost out of their senses at the loss of
»
their darling (as they call her); and to complete our misfortunes, my brother George, who might have been active in the affair, and comforted his afflicted parents, has been gone above this week to Oxford. Adieu, Madam, you, shall certainly hear from me the instant I can gain any intelligence of our lost friend. My heart is hurling while I write these lines •, we weary heaven with our prayers far her safety
and
I
[ 45 ]
and restoration to her family and friends. I am, with many apologies for being the cause of pain to your Ladyship, dear Lady lucy’s ever
obliged, and obedient humble fer
»

South audley ftreet'. Louisa mertoni
The Right Hon. Lady Lucy Scott ta George Boothby, Esq
«

TH E interell I take in my friend Miss bolton’s welfare, obliges
“td
me to reveal to you my suspicions with regard to her being run away with from the masquerade. It is with difficulty that I can bring myself to wound your parental ‘ tenderness, by declaring, that I believe your Son George Boothby to be the raviffier. I know he has made love to her more
than
'."rs
[' 46 ]
than once; and I also know that her answers have been decisive in the negative : Nay, she has threatened to inform vou of his addresses to her, in cafe he ever ventured to renew them. Now, Sir, the' man who can sofar deviate from his duty and honour, as to attempt the Seducing' of a young Lady who is under your guardianship, into a clandestine marriage with himself, is, I am convinced, capable of taking any violent method of attaining his purpose. I know he is ignorant of her fortune’s being thrown into Chancery, or he would never have run away with her : On the knowledge of that circumstance he will probably leave her, but will he restore her to you? No, he will rather use his utmost endeavours to secrete her from
t
your inquiries, in order the better to hide his own villainy, Excuse the
epithet,
I.
t 47 1
epithet. Sir, it must; sound harsh to a ' parent’s ear; but I am persuaded it is justly applied, and the love I bear my friend, permits me not to disguise my sentiments on an occasion where her honour, nay, perhaps, her life is at \ stake. I am with the most perfect esteem, and the highest veneration for Mr. boothhy’s virtues, his ever obedient humble servant
• Lucy Scott.
«
Lady Lucy Scott to Mrs. Merton.
I Am infinitely obliged to you, my dear Madam, for your goodness in writing to me; I was indeed made miserable by my julia’s long silence;; her very name chills my blood with terror, lest she should at this moment be Suffering the most barbarous outrages from the monster who has be'
'_
/
[ 48 ].
trayed her; i tremble at the thought, and my heart beats convulsive with the moil frightful apprehensions. May the Almighty protect the most perfect work of his hands I he miufc, he will preserve innocence like hers : my trust: is in him .who never' yet forsook the truly virtuous; yet I cannot resign ■ sofar ti his dispensations, as not to suffer the most violent agitations on m, y julid.s account. I can neither eat, drink, nor deep, till I hear some' ' of her. Lord Kelfo and his fon have sent orders to the poft houfes to flop all paftengers on, their road to Scotland, who may be found any way to resemble the description they have given them of the person of my un • happy friend and her inhuman raviftier. Write to me, my clear Madam, it, is charity; my fears and apprehensions - me; my eyes stream with tears,
and
» * ■ ’
I.
I
t 49 ]
and my heart is bursting with grief. I know not what to write, only I am certain of being Mrs. Mertorfs ever obliged and obedient humble Servant,
Hopton hall, Lucy Scott,
Mrs. Merton to Lady Lucy Scott.
IN consequence of the letter which your Ladyship wrote to my father, he immediately dispatched a messenger to fetch George from Oxford; the man returned, alturingshim, that his fon had not been seen there since his return to England from his travels. Judge of his disappointment and grief on receiving this information; he instantly clapped his hand to his heart, and with a deep sigh, said“ “Lady “'Lucy Scott is in the right, and my fon is the villain she fufpeds him “to be.” There is now an advertise
m.
Yol. III E ment
t 50 1
ment put into the papers by my father, describing his fon’s person, and offering a considerable reward to any one who shall secure him, and bring him to justice; such is the heroic virtue of this good man. The Lord Chancellor has caused to be published a long paragraph in the papers, showing the penalties incurred by law for running away with an heiress under the guardianship of the crown. But all which has hitherto been done has proved in effedual; we can learn no news of our dear Julia, so we begin now to fufpcft: that George has carried her abroad. What a pity it was that her delicacy, lest she should wound her guardian’s peace, made her conceal from my father’s knowledge the presumptuous addresses of his fon; all this might have been prevented. My
situation
*
51 1
Situation is truly deplorable, I feel for a friend, for my parents, and even for my worthless brother; he must inevitably be ruined by this rash step. O! Lady Lucy, it would pierce your gentle heart to See my father and mother’s excess of sorrow on this dreadful occasion; I really am afraid that it will be the death of them both. Inquiries are now making at all the seaports, and of the masters or captains of vel fels, packet boats, idc. God Send they may turn out Satisfadory, for I shall never know peace till I am assured of the health and Safety of my friend. O, she was stngularly amiable! But I shall only hurt both you and myself by enumerating her perfedions. I will therefore drop my pen; my Spirits are So low, indeed, that I can hardly hold it, to alture your Lady
E 2 ship
[ 52 1
ship how sincerely I am your ever obliged,
South Audiey jireet. Louisa Merton.
From the same to the same.
Dear Lady Lucy,
FROM Brighthelmfione we have received information, that two young people of different Sexes embarked late at night, about a week ago, in a fishing boat for France; that the Lady appeared to be very ill, and showed great reluctance to the being
O O
carried on board the vessel: They conveyed her into it, it Seems, appa rently miore dead than alive. By the account these people give of the Gentleman and Lady, there remains no doubt of their being Miss Bolton and George, My father, on hearing these circimistances, fet out as quick as th
horses[
[ ]
horses could be put to the chaise for Brighthelmfione j from whence he purposes to cross immediately to Dieppe in pursuit of them. He has wrote to Harry, commanding him to send a description of Julia's and his brother’s persons, to the Intendant of the province of Normandy, in order to have the fugitives stopped there, if they should be met with. Mr. Merton is gone with my father; first, because he Speaks French as well as a native of the place, and next, because we did not think it proper for the old Gentleman to go by himself, especially at a time when he is under the most violent perturbation of spirits. Our Ambaf sador at Paris has had orders lent him, by his majesty’s command, to cause the stridest search to be made after the travellers. Sure they cannot long escape the being discovered. Unhappy
E 3 youth!
[ 54 ]
youth! into what a dreadful fituationi will your avarice then have brought you? for I know my brother. Lady Lucy, and therefore cannot mistake his motive for committing this desperate action; money, not love, is his idol. Whatever may be the event of this • unhappy affair, it must always wound the breast of your ladyship’s most obedient and obliged humble servant.
South audley fireet. Louisa Merton, Lord Tatton to Lady Lucy scotti
ft
My dear sister,
This affair of your friend Miss Bolton's slight, has given me inexpressible uneasiness on your account as well as her own. You know on what occasion I was separated from her at the masquerade;; was a considerable time before I could get any negus, 4 the
im..
[ 55 ]
the crowd was so prodigious; when, on my return into the room, I could not find her. 'Tis inconceivable to me by what means fly was decoyed from thence, as I had seated her between two Ladies, where she promised to stay till I came back. I have at last found out the two fellows, into whose chair she got on leaving Carlijle house: : went into it (they say) of her own accord voluntarily; they carried her over jvejiminfter bridge, when a Gentleman, who had accompanied the chair from Soho, took her out, and put her forcibly into a hackney coach: He then gave the chairmen five guineas, charging them to hold their tongues. I have also had the hackney coachman with me, who says, he carried the Gentleman and Lady as far as Newington, where a post chaife was waiting for them : The Gentleman gave him a
E 4 guinea,
[ 56 3
guinea, and then put the Lady into the chaise, who appeared to him to be in a Swoon. 1 have Seen the postboy, *, Ik ys, he drove them as far as Croydon, where they changed horses, but not the chaste, as that was hired of his master to go as far as Brighthelmfione. You have heard from Mrs. Merton that they were seen at that place, from whence they crosted to France, The rewards oflfered in the papers procured us the above pieces of intelligence. Mr. Merton writes from the coast that the woman of the inn deposes“ “
“the Gentleman behaved with the
*
“utmost respect to the Lady during the few hours they stayed in her house;; that he could not pre vail on her to eat or drink any “thing.” She cried bitterly, the woman says, saying to the Gentleman, that the utmost efforts of his cruelty
2 could
•- _________________
[ 57 1
could not prevent her dying. She attempted to Speak to the landlady, but George (for it was doubtless him) clapped his hand upon her mouth, and bid the woman leave the room. How my heart bleeds, Lucy, for your sweet friend! What a monster must George Boothhy be, to treat one of your lovely Sex with Such brutality? My dear Jane vows Ihe will not be mine till Julia is found, and restored to her friends; adding, that She will be answerable for your following hef example, not to damp your bridal joys with the reflection of what your friend may then be Suffering; So you Sec, sister, I am doubly interested in this perplexing affair. Lady Jane tells me she left you idolised by all the blood of the Kelfos. My father seems very well Satisfied with your choice of a husband, being much pleased with
your
t 58 1
, 5^ur lover’s letter to him, as well as Lord kelfo’s. My mother says, “'tis “very hard to be deprived of your “company before you are married I think So too, for never brother loved a lister with more reason, or with a more perfect friendship and affection, than does your faithful friend and brother,
grofvenor fquare, T atton.
Mrs. Merton to Lady Lucy Scott.
My dear Lady Lucy,
T Have just received a letter from * my husband, dated Rouen, wshere in he tells me, that on their landing at Dieppe, they traced my brother and Julia to that place. Where being arrived, after the stridest inquiries, they could learn no more, than that the Gentleman and Lady had walked out
of
[ 59 1
of the inn one morning, after having discharged the bill, but whither they were gone they knew not, as it was no business of theirs; adding, that it was several days Since they quitted the house. My father and husband now took a walk into the fields, in order to confuit what farther steps they should take, to get (if possible) some more intelligence from the landlady, whom they fuspeded to know more of 'the matter than she would tell them : When, all of a sudden, Mr. Merton cried out, “there’s George !" My father, lifting up his eyes, saw a man slowly advancing towards them, looking steadfastly on the ground, and dressed in a sailor’s jacket; whom, notwithstanding his disguise, he instantly knew to be his Son. The old Gentleman flew directly to him, and Seizing him by the throat, cried out,
in
t
[ 6o ]
in a furious tone, “Villain, have I caught you ?” George, wsho’s astonishment at this unexpected Salutation I leave you to imagine, attempted to persuade them that they had mistaken their man, afleding not to know who they were; but lie Soon found there was no trifling with his father, who, together with Mr. Merton, led, or rather dragged him to the inn, where they had but j ust left their servants and baggage: v/hen my father, on entering the house, with a stern countenance, demanded of George, “what he had done with Miss Bolton?" He asteded surprise at the question, answering, that he had not Seen her since he left England, therefore could give no account of her. Mr. Merton then introduced the landlady to him, who said, Nshe would take her oath that hs was the Same Gentleman who lay one
might
[ ]
night in her house at Simh a time, ac*i companied by a very pretty young Lady, who made her sit up in her room all night, and then gave lier half a guinea for her trouble; and that he (pointing to George), notwithstanding the Lady's entreaties to the contrary would stay in the room with them th whole time. To all which, George averred, that the woman was mad or drunk, for he swore he never had feed her in his life before. My father now began to remonstrate with him on the • atrociousness of the crime he had committed, as well as the folly of it. Since it could answer no other end than that of distrefling an innocent girl, and bringing dishonour and infamy on himself and family. He steadily denied the charge, stvearing that he had never been in company with Mils Bolton Since he saw her in audley fireet,
My
t 62 1
My father lost all patience at being thus trifled with, and told him sternly, he would perhaps be more candid “when he appeared before my Lord “Chancellor, which he should most “aflliredly do, as soon as he could be “put on board a vessel bound for “England; where, when he arrived, “the laws of his country would take “care to convey hirn to London at the ‘‘ king’s expense.” All this time George remained sullenly Silent, nor could by any means be brought to give the least information about Julia. My father therefore (after having con ligned his fon to the care of my husband and the Servants) went to wait upon the magistrates of the town, when he informed them of the whole affair, part of which they already knew, by the instrudions they had received from the ministers, at the Solicitation
of
[ 63 ]
of the engujh ambassador, viz. “stridd “ly to examine all strangers pasting “through their town, and to stop any ' one of them who should answer the “description they had sent them of “George boothhy’s person” ” were also required to stop the Lady too, who was to be treated with the utmost respect, and her gallant to be put into confinement wherever he was found. My father, on hearing this, requested that they would send proper people to convey George to prison, af suring them (on his honour) that he was the man whom the ambafltador was in pursuit of. The judge readily complied with his desire, and committed George to ]di, where he visited.. demanding (by virtue of his authority) wlio he vas?? he came? and what was his business in that town? t0 which questions he could procure
no
4*
[ 64 ]
t
bo answer from the prisoner, either by threats or entreaties. They therefore left him; and now made all possible inquiries after the Lady, but to no manner of purpose;; that my father and husband write, that they were going immediately to fet out for Paris, in order to obtain a permission to search all the convents in the province of Normandy, thinking it probable that George had placed her in one of them. This is all I know, my dear Lady Lttcy; God send us better news, prays your ladyship’s afflicted and most humble Servant,
South audley ftreet. Louisa Merton.
0
%
f
From the same to the same.
I Here Send your Ladyship the copy of a note which we received by the hands of a Sailor yesterday; it will, no
doubt.
'[ 65 : i
doubt, give you as much pleasure as it did us. ' It was directed to my father, and contained as follows;
“Dear Sir,
“Your poor suffering jiiua has only time to tell you that she is alive, “and as yet uninjured in her honour
“by the — -- -- -- -- (how shall I be able
“to call a fon of yours by the name “he deserves?)?) trapanned me “out of soho fquare : His disappoint“ “Since I told him my fortune’s “in Chancery is not to be described; “and would induce him (I am ceri
- tain) to restore me to my friends, “if the dread he feels of the conie “quences, which may attend the dis
- covery to himself, did not hinder. “him. God knows what will become
of me, he is so sullen and filent that
%
“I cannot guess at his designs; and Vo l. III F “he
[ 66 ]
“he Suffers me to speak to no body. I am at a seaport town in France, but its name I am ignorant of. I “write this whilst he is paying a bill at the bar. I have little or no hopes “of its ever reaching you; but if it “should, pray for, and seek after the “unfortunate
“Julia Bolton.
The sailor tells us that a pretty boy put this letter into his hand, with a guinea, at the same time clapping his finger to his mouth, as much as to say, “don’t speak The honest lad
brought it himself, instead of putting it into the post, or we should have had it much sooner. Who could this pretty boy be, ladfllucy? Was it our lost friend thus metamorphosed i I fancy so. Two mails are arrived, and no news from France *, I am very uneasy at this " 5 silence.
i
t 6? ]
Silence. My poor mother is quite worn down with affliction;; do all I can to Support her Spirits, but alas! I want a comforter myself. Adieu, my dear Madam, ever yours affedionately.
South audley ftreet. Louisa Merton.
Lord Tatton to Lady Lucy Scott.
I Was yesterday, my dear Aster, at Mr. boothhy’s, when a packet arrived from Frame', I promised to give you an account of its contents, though of little or no importance, because Mrs. Merton is really very ill as •well as her mother.
Mr. Boothhy writes that they have already examined many convents, but hitherto ineffedually, as they heard nothing of Julia in any of them. After this fruitiest search they returned to Rouen, in order to make a second
F 2 viflt
[ 68 ]
viflt to George; who, not in the least intimidated by the horror of a prison, obstinately perflsts in his Silence with regard to what he has done with Miss Bolton, Swearing he will die rather than reveal where fly is lest his brother Harry should poflfefs her fortune, which he makes no doubt but he will (if he ever finds his mistress) as Soon as fly comes of age. I would suffer (said he) any degree of torture, rather than that of feeing my younger brother in poflestion of a fortune which I have always determined to make my own: As to the girl (though she is pretty), yet I don't care three straivs for her; if I could have her money, Harry may take her person with all my heart. This he said to Merton, not to his father, to whom he pleads his passion for the Lady, as a reason why he stole her, and why he will not giv»
her
[69]-
her ui. However, I hope Julia may be found in spite of his malice in concealing her. Such diligent search is made after her, that I think she must be discovered in the end; in the mean time her fate is uncommonly cruel. T saw Hackit the other day; he tells me he has found out his wife’s mother, by an advertisement which he read in a news paper, signifying“ “if Miss“ “Homes was in England, and “would apply to such a person in the “Temple, she might hear of something“ “to her advantage.” He and she immediately went to thelawyer’s chambers, when after his making a strict examination as to theidentity of Mrs. hack ids person, he told her he would wait upon her one day..in that week, when he should explain himself further on the business. He did so, and brought with him a fine looking woman of
F 3 - about
[ 70 ]
about forty, who declared herself to be the widow of the deceased Mr. Homes, The meeting of the mother and daughter [Hackit told me) was very moving. She has (it seems) given them some very important lights into her late hulband’s affairs, so that through her means he hopes to recover a large sum of money : “However “(said he), if I never get a shilling “with my Jenny, She is in herself a “treasure above all price, ” I was pleased, Lucy, to find the young man So sensible of his wife’s value; he is much improved in his manner, 1 can assure you. Those old devils at Ivy Castle will begin to truckle, I suppose, when they find that the young people don’t want their assistance;; I hope Hackit will have Spirit enough to look cool iri his turn : Such parents don’t merit that tender appellation. But I
believe,
[ 7' ]
believe, sister, you and I are Ipoiled children, so we are not proper judges of the matter; besides, let a parent ad as they will, yet there is still a duty owing to them. These old Haekits are punished, fushciently in their offspring, for their illiberal manner of educating them. Fanny, their youngest daughter, has married one of the under gardeners. I am not surprised at it: How could they expect any good would result from their tyrannical confinement of the girl? who is, lam informed, the counterpart of her Lady mother; so the fellow has the worst of the bargain, I think. I wish I could be a mouse at the Castle, just to ‘ '.
see how pride and rage boil in Lady hackd’s breast at this moment: Her high blood contaminated by an alliance with the basest of the plebeian race.
O horror 1 what sweet creatures her
F 4 grand[
[ ]
grandchildren will be! I am resolved to stand godfather to the first which Fanny produces, in order to inquire of its grand mamma how my godchild does every time we meet.
Come 'to town quickly, Lucy, or my Jane and I shall be one flesh without you. She. bids me remind you, that you promised to be one of her bride maids if she married first. I have had a fufs to get her consent to. bring things to a conclusion, and at last have happily convinced her Sweet Ladyship, “that procrastination “is the thief of time, ” and that her friend Julia can receive no possible alleviation of her sorrows, by her remaining a virgin. She allows the justness of my arguments, and has therefore consented to make me the happiest of men this day fortnight. We hg, ve taken a house in berkeley fquare,
where
[ 73 ]
where we shall be delighted to receive my ever dear Lucy — yours, not So much as jam’s,, but much more So than my own,
grofvenor fquare. Tatton.
P. S. My father and mother count the hours till you return. Mrs. Boothhy and Mrs. Merton are gone to Richmond for the benefit of the air; the former was ordered to leave London by all her physici ans; the latter grows partially fatter every time I see her. She is to accompany her friend Lady Jane to church on the important day.
%
Lady
t 74 ] -,
Lady Lucy Scott to Lord Tatton.
I Am Sorry, my dear Ned, that I cannot be at your wedding; but a slow fever has for Some time confined Lady Kelfo to her room, and it would be inhumanity to leave her in Such a situation, and impossible for her to go up to Londori, ill as she is. I must therefore content myself for the present, with wishing you and your fair partner as happy as health, beauty, good nature, love, and riches, can make you. I never thought her Iprightly Ladyship would be able to give to friendship the victory over love; and indeed, as you observe, I can conceive no sort of use her living single can be of to the unfortunate Julia. Alas! that name is a dagger to my heart; no words can paint my
Sorrow
<
[ 75 ]
Sorrow for the loss of my amiable friend; God restore her to rne, for till then peace must be a stranger to my breast. My Swain is too delicate a lover to propose matrimony to me whilst my mind is opprested with a load of grief and anxiety; he is, however, indefatigable in his endeavours to console me, and tries every method he can invent to distipate that melancholy which preys upon my spirits, for the misfortunes of my friend: But you are a thoughtless pair, Tattcn, you and Jenny, and perhaps the happier for that reason. The pleasures of this life are sweeter for not beino to accu
O
rately weighed and examined into; we rational beings don't enjoy life half so much as you giddy brained unthinking ones do; so go on your own way: if you can but be happy with innocence, no matter wshat road you take to attain
it.
[ 76 ]
1
it. You will probably alk me how long I have been rational? I answer, ever since I became miserable, that is, ever Since I lost my Julia. My kindest love to Lady Jane, yours most affedionately,
hoptonaall. Lucy Scott.
\
P. S. More news of the Haekits, pray. — O fine Fanny! she will make an excellent poor man’s wise, with her pride and ill nature. Bless the man! what a fool he must be to marry a fine i.<ady without either merit or money? for the old folks will probably never give her sixpence. Adieu, write as soon as your v/edding day is over, I am persuaded Lady Jane and you were formed for each other;;, am certain you’u
be
f
[ 77 1
be happy. Hymen, Hymenas, sd.c.
Mrs. Merton so the Right Hon. Lady
Lucy Scott.
I Am extremely rejoiced to hear that your Ladyship is at last arrived in London, because I am at least a great deal nearer to you now than I have been for some months past. I long to See you, but my mother’s illness confines me entirely to her chamber. The bad success which my father and husband have had in their pursuit of Julia, has greatly contributed to the increase of her disorder; besides, george’s behaviour is a source of sorrow to her, which I much fear no time will ever be able to heal: she loved our fair friend with a maternal affection, and to have lost one child
by
[ 78 3
by the villainy of another, she Says, are circumstances peculiarly affliding to a parent.
We expect our husbands in England almost every hour, as they write, that by a strange fatality, they can learn no more news of the sweet Sufferer than if she had never put her feet on the French shore; George continuing to deny the having any knowledge of her place of abode. What a heart must he have, thus to afflict a whole family merely to Save himself?? have now, I think, nothing to hope for, but that chance inay put it in the dear girl's power to inform us herself of her situ ation, and how she can be relieved from it. My father is resolved to leave George in prison till he reveals where he has disposed of Miss Bolton.
My mother bids me tell your Ladyship, that she hopes for the pleasure of
feeing
I[
[ ]
Seeing you one day Soon at Richmond; it will, she Says, give her great satis fadion to converse a little with the fa
4
vourite friend of her lost child. My respedful compliments (if you please) to Lord and Lady Tatton; accept the same, my dear Lady Lucy, from your ever obliged and obedient
Richmond. Louisa Merton.
Lady Lucy Scott to Mrs. Merton.
My dear Louisa.
I Write these few lines to inform you that I shall be at Richmond tomorrow morning at twelve o’clock. My kind love to Mrs. Boothhy; I wish I could gratify every destre of her heart, as easily as I can that of waiting upon her. I purpose staying two days with you (if not inconvenient). My brother and sister Tatton are gone to Bath,
to
y I
[ «0 ]
to show themselves, I suppose, for they "are both, thank God, very well. Sir Francis Merton told me yesterday that he expected his fon by the first packet from Calais. I don’t know how to give you joy of his return, as he does not bring our friend along with him. '• Adieu, my dear Madam, I impatiently wait for tomorrow;;. most truly,
grofvenor fquare. Lucy Scott.
/
The Right Hon. Lady Lucy Scott to
Lady Tatton.
dear Jane (for such I shall LY J. ever call you, vrhile you kindly permit me foto do) I am at Richmond with the Boothhys and Mertons; I came here for two days, and have already stayed a week: Lord Malcom is continually with me, or I believe I Should
have
[ St 1
have found the time long. Mr. Boothby and his fon in law are returned from France, the former much broke by affliction; he, however, assumes an apparent cheerfulness, in oi der to support the almost finking spirits of his amiable confort: The Sorrows of this worthy pair pierce my heart. Louisa and her Spouse are so rejoiced at meeting again, that I verily think pleasure has entirely (at least for a time) obliterated ali their grief for the lost Jiilsh. Happy couple! how they dote on each other? I have half a mind to be married directly, when I am in company either with them or you and my brother; but then my friend probably is miserable: that thought banishes all agreeable ideas from my mind, and brings it back to its wonted gloom. Mr. Merton tells me, that George Boothhy is the most. vol. III G steady •
E «2 J
steady villain he ever heard of,, for he betrayed no remorse or compassion, notwithstanding his father talked to him in a style calculated to melt the most obdurate heart, adding tears to his remonstrances and entreaties, but all in vain; Harry Boothhy is, you rnay be Sure, active in the Search after his beloved mistress he has his father’s leave to ad according to his owm discretion in the affair. Heavens 1 how I wish that he may be fortunate enough to become her deliverer; what a joyful meeting would it prove to' them both! O love, dired their steps to each others arms!' delightful thought! I will believe it prophetic And now, my dear Sister, as I have So well disposed of my friend, I will tell you and your Edward, that the day before I fet out for this place, I waited upon Mr. Hackit,. his Lady,,
and
ft... -,
[ ]
and her mother, I found an Eaft india director with them, who they Said had been an intimate friend of the late Mr. homes’s, and had a large share of that Gentleman's effects in his hands at the lime of his death. He told me, that Mr. Mac alien (which was, it seems, Mr. homes’s real name, though on going abroad he had taken that of his mother, on account of the people of drafs, who had from prejudices ridiculous enough objected to the having an Irishman for their Governor, and the Mac he thought would perhaps' discover his country, or at least give them a suspicion which might lead into unnecessary inquiries upon the subject) had wrote to him just before he embarked for England, that he had placed part of his money in France arid Holland, as he could contrive to get it from India, nearer home; and
G 2 that
[ §4 ]
that Some of his effects were consigned to him and Mr. ivilker; that for his own part, he should bring over in die same bottom with himself about twenty thousand pounds in plate, jewels, money, and merchandise. “He then “gives me a minute account of all he “is worth, how and where placed, “lest, says he, I should die on my “passage to England; adding, that if it should so happen, he trusted “that I and his friend Wilker would “prove parents to his girls, but for“ “to tell me in his letter where ‘‘ his daughters were.” I happened (continued this Gentleman) unluckily to be out of town when Mr. Macallen arrived there; on my return I found he had left a letter for me at my house; I instantly went to wait upon him at Mr. wilker’s, but to my inexpressible surprise was informed by that Gentleman, that my friend had died of an
apopledic
[ 85 ]
apopledic sit two days after he came to London, and that it was now sometime
Since he was buried. As Soon as I
\
could recover myself from the astonishment this piece of news had thrown me into, I alked ivilker if he knew where the Miss macauens were I He answered“ “not exactly, though “I know 'tis somewhere in France, I “believe, and they are both nuns, “but in what convent, or where, I “am totally ignorant. It was the “news their father received of his
V •.
“having taken the veil, “1 apprehend, which occasioned“ “death; for the poor man ap peared almost out of his senses“ “reading a letter from a friend of his in France, wsho tells him, “that he saw both his daughters pro“ “into (I have forgot what order). “He lived, good man, but a few hours after having received this
G 3 ‘‘ pkce
[ 86 ]
piece of intelligence.” — But pray. Sir, said I (interrupting him), has Mr. Macallen left no will behind him i and what may be the amount of the money and effects which you have of his in your hands? Alas! Sir, replied will ker, I was amazed, after his decease, to find neither will or papers of any sort, which could let me into the state of his affairs; “and as to money, I “was obliged to Sell his clothes to “defray the expenses of his funeral, which was a handsome one to be “sure; and for effects, I had none of his in my hands at the time of his death, not a shilling, I affure you.” Take care. Sir, answered I, in an anr gry tone, how you ad in this mysterious affair, I fancy it is in my power to prove part of your assertions to be false; and you may depend upon the stridest examination's being made into
O
your conduct with regard to the sud
dept
*7 ]
den death and precipitate burial of Mr. Macallen, as well as touching the effects I know you had of his in your possession. So saying, I walked out of the house. He looked, I thought, during our conversation, a good deal alarmed at my menaces, which I was resolved to have effedu, ated when I heard he had cut his own throat; having left all he was worth (which by his will at least appeared inconsiderable) to an old wretch, who had lived with him some years in the double capacity of housekeeper and mistress;; name is Wilmot, she has a brother who calls himself Fletcher, and whom no body knows, or by what means he contrives to live. I have indeed been told that he had connexions with some worthiest woman of fortune, who supported him; but that’s probably not true, as I think. Madam, (looking at Mrs. Hackit) you told me
G 4 that
[ 88 ]
that he is gone off with Mrs. Wilker, as she now calls herself. Here the Gentleman ceased Ipeaking, when I asked Mrs. Hackit if she had any prosped of recovering part of her late father’s fortune 1 She answered, I owe to that gentleman’s probity and generosity a large Sum of money, which my father had (fortunately for me) entrusted to his care. Mr. Worth (for that. Said she, is the gentleman’s name with whom you have been talking, Lady Lucy) is now perfectly convinced that I am really the daughter of his deceased friend; and has in consequence made over to Mr. Hackit (after having taken care of me, in cafe I should be So unfortunate as to lose my husband) the sum of thirty thou, EA pounds, which was placed by him, in my father’s name, in the bank. This money, together with what we have
discovered[
[ ]
discovered, to have been placed in the hands of some Dutch merchants, will make me a considerable fortune. The finding myself thus unexpededly rich (continued Mrsi Hackit') would give me very little pleasure, but from the joy I feel in presenting it to the worthiest of men, and best of husbands; he would not abandon me when he thought me a beggar, though urged to it by his unfeeling parents : I tried both his love and probity to the utmost, by concealing from him the circumstance of my having secured my jewels till his return from Ivy Castle. Judge then. Lady Lucy, Said she, what must be my joy in being able thus to recom pence the man I love better than myself, and to whom I owe every blessing in life. Hackit looked as if he
O
had a mind to get up and kifs her, but he contented himself witte thanking
t 9° ]
ing her with a nod and a Smile, which were full as expressive of his sentiments as if he had Spoke. I now alked Mrs. Hackit how her lister did? She replied with a Sigh, “she was pretty well when I last heard from her. Madam, but alas! why does she not share my fortune with me? that thought “will ever pain my heart. I have,
“however, forced her to accept of a penflon, which if she cannot con“ “to Spend, she may give away to the poor. My mother too threat“ “to leave me, and to retire into “the convent with my Aster; So you “See, Lady Lucy, that there is no “permanent felicity in this world.”
I now in a low voice inquired of Mr. Hackit what was become of his Aster Fanny? Fie told me he had wrote to her, and enclosed a bank bill of two hundred pounds, lest fly should be.
drove
s
I
[ 91 1
drove to any real diilrefs before something could be done for her. I said,
‘‘ that was nobly done of you, Mr.
“Hackit, it was acting like a brother “and a Christ; ian.” Ah! Madam, he replied, what do I not owe to my Jenny! 'tis she who has weeded my heart of its worst; vices, and in their room has transplanted some of her own virtues. “I hope in time, Lady “ilucy, to render myself worthy the “possession of such an angel.”
Your Ladyship will shortly see this happy couple at Bath, to which place they are going upon Mrs. Macallerfs account, who seems to me to be in a decline. I long to know her history, why fly left her husband at Madrafs, how fly came to know that her daughter was in England, why she never inquired after • her children for such a Series of years, though she knew where
a they
[ 92 ]
they were, and what She nas been doing ever Since She left the Indies? You, my dear, may perhaps learn all these circumstances from the Haekits; if so, pray write me every particular. The woman is worth money, I should suppose, if one may judge from her appearance; which, as to dress, is rather Splendid.
'Adieu, my dear friend and beloved sister, kifs my brother for she, and believe me ever yours affedionately, Richmond. Lucy Scott.
P. S. \ had forgot to tell you that Mrs. Lewis is brought to bed of a boy, both well. She has, I hear, been very kind to her imprudent Sister. Your friend Mrs. Merton is a trundling figure too, she sends her love. I leave this plac^ tomorrow— —
Mrs.
f 93 1
/ ♦
Mrs. Merton do Lady Lucy Scott.
IT is long Since I wrote to you, dear Lucy; for what could I Say. to amuse, whilst; I had no news to give you of our long lost; friend? I returned from Hampshire last; Tuesday, where I have been with Sir Francis ' and Lady Merton, at their seat for a few weeks; when yefterday’s mail brought us a letter from our dear Julia. We all knew the hand, but joy at the sight of it had seized our faculties to such a degree, that no body was able to break the feal and read it but my husband. It contained but a few lines; she tells us that she is perfectly well, and supremely happy in the company of her deliverer, but does not inform us who he is; only says, that her next will contain certain preliminaries,
which
m
m
V
r 94 ]
which, wheri flgned by her guardians, she will instantly fly into their arms with her knight errant in her hand. In the mean time she begs they would be perfectly easy on her account, assuring them that she has, and ever shall, stridly adhere to those rules of prudence and discretion, which their example, as well as precepts, had so’ firmly imprinted on her mind. “I “am, says she, at present in the house“ “a Lady, whose virtue, piety, and, “benevolence, render her an honour to her sex; she is my friend and “protedrefs.” She then requests my father’s permission to draw on him for five hundred pounds; but what surprises us all is, that she has not mentioned your Ladyship; from whence we conjediire, that she must have wrote to you herself; if so, be so kind as to inform us of it, and you will infinitely
oblige
[ 95 I
ob lige all this family, and in particu^ iar, your ladyship’s ever obliged friend and obedient servant,
I
Richmond. \ Louisa Merton
%
Bolton to Lady Lucy Scott.
I Know not, my dearest; friend, whether you still bear the name of Scott or no; yet something tells me that you would not marry while you were ignorant of the fate of your Julia : if I judge right, now instantly I charge you, give your hand .to Lord Malcom; tell him, I order him to take you, ’tis all the reparation I can make for having so long deprived him of happiness. Seriously, my dear Lucy, I shall be afflicted if, on my arrival im England, I .should find you still Angle. I am myself, at this period of time,
- happy beyond the power of description;;
♦
[ ]
on; they never .knew real joy, who have not experienced its opponent fain; every pleasure is heightened by - being contrasted. How delightful is liberty to the wretch who is jvist relieved from imprisonment! whereas those who never were confined, enjoy this first of blessings without ever being sensible of its value — a truce with reflections— — you die (I suppose) to know how I was decoyed out of car life house. Know then, that a few minutes after your brother had left me, as you know (for he must have .told you) to fetch me a glass of negus, he returned, as I thought, saying, my dear miss Bolton, there is Such a crowd that I cannot get to the fide board, and I verily believe there is no negus
• ZD
left; but as I came back into the room, ’ I met Merton and Sir Francis leading Lotiifa into the .air; fly looked pale
and
[ 97 1
and fairit, I thought; Lady Ludlow Said, the heat, together with standing so long, had overcome her, and begged I would tell you they were gone home; adding, “Do you, my Lord, “put miss Boltott into a chair, and T yourself into another, and see her “safe to Mr. boothby’s, for our chairs ■ “are not ordered till near three o’clock, “so we have no Servants here.” Come
ft
then, said he, “give me your hand, “and I will take care of you, we “shall be at home almost as soon as “they if you make haste, and we will “go out the back way, - if you please
■ “avoid the crowd.” Sorry to hear •that my friend was ill, and anxious to reje in her, I gave him my hand; he led me through many rooms of that immense house, when going out of a little door, he popped me into the first hackney chair he found there, bidding
. vojl. III H the
J
ft
'[ 9* ]
the men follow him, for he would walk before them. I drew the curtains of the chair to avoid being stared at, which must have been the consequence of his preceding me thus in a masquerade habit. I did not think the way long, but judge of miy surprise on being fet down, to find myself notin' South audley ftreet, but on the Surry fide of fveftminfter bridge! and at the Same time, on looking for Lord Tatton, I saw a. man by the chair, not drefied in masquerade, but in his own clothes; I stared him in the face (for it was very moonlight), and instantly knew the features of. George Boothby / I Snrieked with terror at the sight, when he, gently taking me out of the chair, with the aid of one of the men, attempted to put me •into a hackney coach, stopping my mouth at the Same time with his handkerchief;
%
[ 99 ]
kerchief; I struggled and kicked with, all my might, to prevent their forcing me into the coach, but to no purpose, for in they put me; he seated himself by my flde, still keeping his handkerchief to my mouth with one hand, and holding my hands with the other. In a short time I was again taken out of
O
this vehicle, and put into a post chaife.
I now saw my ruin certain (I thought) and fainted away. How long I remained in this state of insenflbility I know not, but when I came to myself I found we were driving on as fast as four horses could carry us. I now determined to Speak calmly to the wretch, in order if possible, to penetrate his schemes of whither we were going, and what he proposed by thus running away with me. I therefore Said, with a tremulous voice, Pray, mriboothhy, how came you to meet me in the street,
H 2 and -
[ 'loo ]
\
and where is Lord Tatton? My dearrest y^ili<2, replied the bear, it was I that handed you out of the ball room, not Lord Tatton; I had watched an opportunity all the evening of his quitting you for a moment, that /, being sheflfed for that purpose exactly like. him, might by an innocent stratagem secure to my arms the goddess of my idolatry.: I have succeeded, love was my guide, and he seldom denies his aid to any of his votaries, especially. when they are so totally his staves as I am. But, said I, to what purpose this violence, George? you know ''ii never will be yours, nay, cannot. Since I am engaged to your brother. We. are both the same flesh and blood, my angel, he replied, and when you are in my arms you may take me for my brother,, if you pleaie, she ditfei'ence is onlyin our names. here^the brute
‘•■•r attempted
[ loi 1
tempted to kiss me, nay, did kifs me violently. I again fainted away with terror and indignation. What contributed considerably towards making me ill was, that as soon as day broke, he drew up all the blinds of the chaise. So that I had no air; and when ever we stopped to change horses Tif I was Sensible) he always applied his handkerchief to my mouth, to prevent .rny Speaking. Thus worn out by fatigue and vexation, I soon became insenlible to everything but my grief; when, at last I found George lifting, or rather pulling me out of the chaise; I was too weak to stshd, or even to Speak. I had been up all night, had eat nothing all day, and my Spirits, as well as body, had for many hours together undergone th, e most violent agitation. He carried me into a room in an inn; a well looking
H 2 woman
X
[ 102 ]
woman brought me Some Sal volatile and water, begging me to Swallow it: I pushed it away with my hand, and sunk senselefs. on the floor. Mr. Boothhy, on his knees, entreated me to eat something, or to drink a glass of wine; but I refused everything, Stammering out, that death was in my •power, his tyranny could not deprive me of that last resource to the wretched, He then begged I would go to bed; I could not answer, my strength was totally exhausted; the woman im drefled me; I was too wtak to relist, though I perceived George to be in a corner of the room, vrith his back to me. I took a small penknife out of my pocket, which I kept in my hand, and carried to bed with me, resolutely determining to use it either against him or myself, in cafe he should be villain enough to take advantage of ■ ' - my
[ >°3 ]
my weakness, and attempt to dishonour me. I made Signs for the woman to sit down by my bed fide; he observed it, and said, she shall not leave you all night, Julia, if you will promise to cornpofe your spirits, and go to sleep. I made no answer; he, took his seat at the foot of the bed, and I with a large pin fastened the woman’s gown to my shift sleeve, lest steep should surprise me and she go away. Fruitiest precaution! for I never shut my eyes. Many people, during the course of the night, seemed to come in and out of the room, and I heard George talk to them in a kind of a whisper. One fellow appeared to be his servant, for he said to him, Tom, have you brought the bundle? To which he replied in the affirmative. About six in the morning George came to my bed fide, saying, you must get
I i 4 ' IT. •
[ 104 1
up, my angel. The landlady immediately attempted to raise me, but I resisted, declaring that I would die where I was. He then told me, that if I would not let the woman dress me' he would, and began to touch me; upon which I submitted to the having my clothes put on by the woman. She untied a bundle, in which there, was a new Brunswick, with linen, proper for me to wear on a journey. This was a necessary precaution of the man’s, for I had nothing with me but my masquerade dress; which, however, ■. he had contrived to hide as much as possible on the road, by covering me almost all over with pocket handkerchiefs. I had happily no jewels on, thinking it ridiculous to wear them in such a crowd as there was likely to be that night at Soho. “I now attempted Several times to Speak to the woman,.
■ • - ‘ bqt
[ 1
but Soon found that fly believed me, to be george’s wise, who had run away with another man; and he having caught me, was now carrying me abroad to place me in a convent against my will; for fly frequently said“ ““hoped time wmuld bring me to a “right sense of my duty, and that “some men would have killed their “wives on such a provocation, in“ “of behaving with the tender“ “the Gentleman did to me.” I had not spirits to dispute the point with her, as I was almost annihilated with grief and want of food. Two men, as soon as I was dressed, seated me in a sedan chair, in which they carried me to the water Side, and put me into a kind of boat. Here I sunk on my knees before my tyrant, and joining niy hands with rny eyes, implored hi pity: I could not Speak. He raised
-,, me,
>
[ io ]
me, took me in his arms, laid my head on his breast, all which I was unable to restst: I was but ] ust alive enough to perceive what pasted, without a capacity either of articulating or moving. The vessel now began to sail, and I to grow„as lick as death. We were in a kind of cabin, very small, close, and stinking. Boothby held me with the most unwearied attention. I really thought I must have died, Lucy, the reaching was so exceshve, I having nothing in my stomach.. Whilst I was in this deplorable condition, the master (I supposed) of the vessel approached me, saying“ “your sto“ “is quiet, young Lady, take ‘‘ my advice, and eat a bit of this “French roll, and then drink a glass of wine.” Istcre he put a piece of bread into my hand; will you believe me, my dear i • I Snatched it eagerly
from
K
t 107 ]
from the man, and devoured it in a moment. ■ He took no notice, but instantly gave me another bit, and then I drank a glass of wine which he offered me: this was all done from the mere impulse of nature. Boothhy did not deflre me to take the bread, or I verily believe I should have refilled it. I did not know I was hungry till I saw the roll. In short, I soon after this refreshment fell asleep on the villain’s breast, and I fancy slept sometime, for I found myielf vastly better when' I awaked. With returning strength my sorrows increased;; now wept bitterly, telling George that he was mad in taking so rash a step; for even if I consented to marry him, we must both starve till I was five and twenty, as well as be banished our native country; since, if we ventured to return thither, he would be flung into
. prison
V
[ I ]
prison for running away with an heiress. Never fear, my dear, he replied, my father will, for your sake, if not for Mine, keep us from want. Your father, I anfv/ered, has no power in the affair, Since I am become a ward in Chancery. He started, and looked, aghast; but recovering himself, said, the scheme is a good one, but it v/on’t take with me, Julia. I replied faintly, it is, however, very true, Mr. booth ly, and you vrill find it foto your sorrow. Here we came to land in some part of France, I asked the name of the place, but found the fallors had learned their lestbns, so was answered by them all, they did not l<mow. And ■ now, my dear Lucy, I must break the •thread of my narration till the next post, being tired to death with writing so much. Adieu, my dear friend; .jdired to me Chez Madame des Touches
r * r * '
d Rennes en Bntagne, but be Sure not
to
s
t ]
tb communicate my address to any one living: the rest; of this letter you may show the Boothbys, c.
Yours most affedionately, Rennes. Julia Bolton.,
D. S. Be sure to write soon, and sign yourself Malcom, or I won’t. forgive you.
Lady Lucy Scott to Miss Bolton.
JULIA / rny sweet friend, do I once again address you! How my heart bounds with joy on the knowledge that you are well and happy : No, I will not injure my feelings om your loss, by mangling them in a poor description of what no language is capable of exprefllng, nor can be conceived, but by those who have experienced a parallel misfortune. But thank, God, my friend is Safe, and my heart’s at ease; I will therefore obey
your
*
[ up 1
your commands, my dear, and give my hand to the man I love in a few days, as settlements were drawn, and clothes bought, Before your cruel adventure happened, which (as you rightly imagined) put a flop to all my Schemes of happiness with my Malcom, since I well knew, that no Situation in ’ life could be pleasing, whilst I was doubtful of your fate. Lord Malcom was present yesterday when I received your letter : joy Sparkled in his eyes at the news of my friend’s Safety; when he modestly observed, that all obstacles to our union were now removed;; could not say they were not, and folie persuaded me to name Thursday next, for what he calls the happy day. O! may it prove So to iis both 1 On my having fixed the tirne he flew to communicate his joy to Lord and Lady Kelfo,, who instantly'
came
[in]
Came into my room to thank me for the felicity I had conferred upon the whole family : Good creatures! how delightfully they looked at their Ion and me. I assured them that the obligation (if it was one) could only be due to you. Lord malcom’s gratitude for the warmth with which you espouse his cause, knows no bounds; he is indeed mould truly the friend of you and your amiable Henry. J have, my dear, ever Since I returned from hop tonne half divided mv time coually be
J! JL 0
tween my father’s house and Lord kelfo’s; but on our marriage we shall immediately go to our own house in arlington ftreet, which has long been in readinel's to receive us. Well then, Julia, I shall at last be married in my own way, you know how that is as Soon as the ceremony is performed at St. george’s church (for I would not
have
J \ ■
[ lie ] ' o
’have a special licence), you know, my dear, I never piqued myself upon prerogative, ever believing that what was
ZD ' O
law for a peasant should be equally So ' ‘for a dutchess. Mrs. Merton is to be ■ at my wedding, llie will tell you how I behave. Tatton and his Jane are 'still at Bath; they are as happy as possible in each other, but have been truly miserable about you. Alas! what have you not suffered, my amiable friend? my heart has bled at several passages in that part of your affecting story which you have so kindly Sent nie. Continue it, my dear creature, I die to know liov/ vou obtained
m •/
your liberty: Your deliverer (my heart tells me) ivas ypur Henry; I foresaw he would be So: 1 cannot name his brother; let us then forget past griefs, and hasten to England, my
JO M
/
[ "3 3
dear, to those friends who eagerly long to embrace you. Have you rione of the curiostty, Julia, so common in all ranks of people, who, though they have perhaps past their lives with you, yet as soon. as ever you become a bride - stare one out of countenance as if
-. f •. J • \
they supposed matrimony td have al tered every feature in one’s face? This
is a whim which I could never account
■ 1
for. I sent a copy of your letter, with a proper reserve, to Richmond, where the Boothbys now are. Their sufferings on your account have been beyond all description. Mrs. Merton is’ well and happy, now she knows you are so; she is very near her time. Susan is with me; the girl is perfectly
restored to health and reason again. I
'
have a million of things to‘ tell you, do come and hear them. Adieu, my vol, III I dear
'\
[ II ]
jjear friend, I am, for the last time, yours,
grofvenor fquare, Lucy Scott,
P, S. I here enclose a letter from your guardian, he sentit this morning, by which you See he believes that I know your address, though he does not. My best compliments to your knight,
Miss Bolton to the Right Hon. Lady
Lucy Scott.
«
ihave not yet heard from my ever dear Lucy; but when I do, I hope to see X Malcom at the bottom of the letter, I have much to say to you, but I know you will be impatient for the sequel of my adventures; I will therefore continue them, though I have a thousand other things to talk of.
We
V '■
[ ]
We did not stay long at the duty inn which we first entered on our landing, nor should we (I imagine] have been there any longer than till pur baggage was on shore, - had I not been So very ill that there was no postibility of moving me. Boothhy, on his knees, entreated me to eat Something, promising by all things faered, that he would use no violence to make me his, if I would take Some nourishment i This asturance (though no Security from so bad a man) revived me a little, and upon the strength of it, I condescended to eat a bit of toast, and ■ drink some tea. George never left
4
me, but behaved, with the utmost respect; he really feared I should die, ' and that would have defeated all his schemes. He now proposed (on perceiving that I was a little refreshed) our removing to a better inn; vre did So :
I 2 I was
f ii 1
I was conveyed thither in a thing they. Called a Sedan chair, though it was more like a centincl box. Here we stayed three or four days, during which time he appeared to be much agitated and thoughtful; he kept me in his sight all day, and locked me in my room all night. I now again ventured to ask him what were his designs; urging the absurdity of his proceedings. He told me, that he hoped time and his unwearied assiduities, would at last prevail on me voluntarily to give bim my hand: And in the meanwhile, continued he, we must stay no longer ' in this town, there are too many eng list) in it, and We may be discovered ^ therefore fet out the next day for Kouen, though I was little able to travel. Whilst he was discharging the bill at the bar, I drew a fountain pen out gf my pocket, and wrote a few
lines
[ ” 7 ]
lines to my guardian, not knowing if .ever I should be able to get them conveyed to him. Remark, Lucy, that though I say we were setting out for Rouen, yet at that time I was ignorant of where I was, or whither I was going; this intelligence I gained afterwards.' On our arrival there, we were let down at a very good inn (for a French one). Mr. Boothby alked far the news papers, when the landlord said“ “you please. Sir, I believe I “can get you a light of the engujh “papers, for a Gentleman of my ac“ “has them from England. “twice or thrice a week.”, George expressed his destre of feeing them,, and the fellow in a short time brought in a handful of newsrpapers, which he laid upon tie table. I was too much absorbed in grief to be able to read, Sq sat crying in a great chair
I 5 whe«
[ ii J
when I was roused by an exclamation from George of. My God! is it possible?? looked at him, as much as to say. What is the matter i It is then but too true, said he, you are indeed a ward in Chancery; here is a reward offered in this paper for apprehending your ravisher, both from the King and my father; my life’s in danger. Ah! Julia \ why did I not believe you when you first told me so? I am undone, lost for ever; we shall be discovered, and, I shall be hanged! I thought to myself, ‘‘ with all my heart.” He now got off his seat, and stamped about the room like a madman; when coming up to me with a furious coimte ^ nance, but I tell you what. Madam, Said he, if you betray me, I will not Suffer alone, for the instant any one attempts to Seize me i’ll plunge this knife (showing me one) into your bo
Spm*
[ 119 ]
Some. Harry shall never enjoy your fortune and my estate too. I was too miserable to fear death, so only answered, without any kind of emotion, you may do as you please, Sir, Since you cannot make me more wretched than I am at present“ “I own to “you, that cruelly as you have treat“ “me, yet I never will intentionally “bring a fon of my worthy guardi “an’s to an ignominious death.” If what you Say is true. Madam, he replied, let us fly from this house, where we cannot long be concealed, Since our persons are too well described in these d — n’d papers for us to pafs unnoticed; besides, the reward is considerable enough to corrupt the integrity of a saint. Come then, said he— — stay — my God i how my head swims?? must pay the .Dill first. Here he rung the bell; “Thomas, this Lady,
I 4 “and
\
t 120 ]
“and I, will walk out; 'while we are “absent do you discharge the house“
“hark yqu, ” whispering him'. Then taking she by^the arm, he led me alshost quite round the dutfide of the town, till I was almost fainting with fatigue; never Speaking one word till we came to a little hedge alehouse, which was a small distance out of the town; there he bid me rest myself, showing me into the hovel, at the same
r CP,, *
time telling an old deaf woman (the only living thing I saw III the house), that I was tired with walking, and begged leave to repose shyfelf for. an hour, till he returned to 'fetch me.
So saying, he bid she stay where I was, and hold my tongue as I valued my life, arid away he went. needless in jundions! because I could hardly stand,, much less run away; and had I bawled shy heart out, - I could never have
* ' •. ' made
I II ]
made the old woman hear one word I
■ 1
Said. In about two hours he returned, accompanied by his man Thomas, who had a large bundle under his arm. observe, that I had been shut up by the old woman, upon Qeorgd.^ leaving me, in a place she called a room, and had never Seen her from
y t * **
that time till his return : indeed she could not fear I should rob her. Since
ft y
she literally had nothing to lose' ' Boothhy now took the bundle from his servant, when flinging it on the floor, there, Madam, said he, there is choice of clothes, fit yourself as well as you can, and as quick as poshble, I undid the bundle, and found it contained nothing but ihen’s iapparel; at which, expreshng my surprise, George Said, you have told me, miss Bolton, that you do not wish my death, and therefore you will not (I prefunie) ob' ' •
«
[ 122 ]
jed to the only means of preserving my life, which is, to disguise your sex by wearing boys clothes. I cried, saying, alas! George, to what have you reduced me! how did I ever injure you, that you should thus distress me i sve have now no time for tears, replied he, in a surly tone, but come, make haste. He then walked out ot the room, bidding me dress myself. O Lucy! I can now laugh at it, but it cost me tears enough at the time; could you have seen the difficulties I met with on putting on an essential part of my dress, I believe you must have frniled, notwithstanding the horror of my situation. I tried two pair on, which proved too little; the third with much difficulty I buttoned. My coat and waistcoat were easily put on, but the shoes absolutely crippled me, they were so hard to my feet, I now
tool[
[ ]
took off my cap, and letting my hair fall down behind, I tied it as well as I could, with a piece of black ribbon. I had just finished my toilet, when George Boothhy entered the room; he started, crying out, “You are an “Adonis, Julia," and was going to kifs me: I pushed him from me, saying“ “you repay my humanity “with insolence?” ?” turned from me in anger. However, taking me soon after by the arm; 'tis dusk, said he, and now we will go and take some refreshment in the town. I must not omit telling you, that George had metamorphosed himself, as well as me', for he now appeared like a sailor, he wore a j acket, trowzers, a, black bob wig, and a round brimmed hat •, in which dress he was so excessively altered, that I really hardly knew him myseff. We pasted the port, when
stopping
[ i ]
stopping to listen to a conversation, which was pretty loud, between two Englishmen, I took the opportunity of shipping my little note to my guardian, with a guinea, into the hand of a good-natured looking tar, who was staring at me; at the same time I put my finger on my rnoutfi, as much as tp Say, mum: He took the hint, and immediately washed off whistling. Vfe now entered an inn, where, while the people were getting Supper ready. booth hy Said to me, “those two men I was listening to on the port, Julia, were telling each other, that orders had been Sent from Ver failles, to stop “two people, whose persons they de ‘‘ Scribed, wherever they should be found in his Majesty's dominions; ‘‘ the reward one thousand pounds to ‘‘ whoever should give any information
of where they were, and two
- - ■
[ 125 ]
“to those who should secure theml “They were likewise enjoined to show “all possible resped to the Ladyj' arid “to throw her ravisher into a dun“ “as she was a very rich heiress “that the villain had stole from her “friends.” I could hardly help smiling at this recital’s coming from his own mouth, but I durst not. Now, Madam, said he, you See my life is the forfeit if you are found with me; I shall therefore convey you to a place of Safety till I can make peace with my friends, which I will endeavour to do with all the expedition possible“ “therefore, rny charming ” girl, to let me six you in a convent, “from whence I will most certainly release you, as soon as I can do it “with safety to myself; and in the ^ mean time, you shall constantly “hear from me.” I gladly accepted
of
ft
[ 126 ]
/
of this proposal, as I thought I should ' be much more eligibly situated among virtuous women, than in being as I was in the power of a bad man, who was trailing me about the world like a' vagabond, in a character very unbecoming the delicacy of my sex.' I therefore got into a post chaife with my tormentor, in a better humour ' than I had been for sometime: We travelled night and day till we caime to a pretty town called Rennes; there we went to a very tolerable inn; George kept his eye upon me all the day, and locked me into my room at night, at the door of which he always bid me a
J
good night, without ever attempting to follow me into it. I slept better this night than I had ever done flnce I left South Audiey jireet; flattering. myself, that I should be able to soften the nuns either by bribery or careflesj
5
[ 127 3
to Suffer me to write to my friends in England. Early in the morning booth hy waked me, by unlocking my door, calling, “Charles, get up: ” This was the name he had given me, telling everybody that I was his brother. I now requested a clean lliirt, sc. which were given me. I found, upon undressing myself the night before, that I had, in the huny of changing my sex, forgot to puli off my shift, which I now bundled up with the rest of my female attire, and gave to Thomas. The fellovr I thought (whilst I vas making up the packet) eyed me with a look of tender compassion: : wished to have spoke to him, but durst not, as George was in a corner of the room. After breakfast Mr. Boothhy proposed our going out of town a few miles, by way of a ride. I had no will but his, because I knew it was to
no
I
[ 128 ]
ho purpose, so away we went. When coming to a village, he called to the postboy t6 stop; then handing me into a house, which had a flgn at the door, he bid the postilion drink and bait his horses whilst he went a little way; when turning to me, now, Julia, said he, I am going to a convent, which is only a Srriall distance from hence, iri order to settle everything necessary for your admittance into it; do you stay here in the meanwhile : So saying, ’ he locked me in the room, and went away. He staid two hours, ' I believe; and on his return, ordered Thomas to bring in the bundle: Now said he, Madairi, quit those clothes, and put on your own. I did So, as quick as possible, heartily glad to get into petticoats again. As Soon as I was dressed, he flung a large cloak of his own over my shoulders, which' almost
[ 129 I
/
most covered me all over, and then hurried me’ into the chaise, drawing up the blinds that no body might remark my metamorphose. We Soon arrived at the convent, into which \ was readily admitted. When I had got into the interior of the house, George requested that I would go into the parlour, and give him leave to speak to me: I consented, though heartily tired of his company, because I did not know how essential; what he had to Say might be to my present and future peace, as I was entirely in his power. He now seated himself on the other Side of the grate which divided us, and thus began: “I am, through a fatal “error, miss Bolton, drove to the “necessity of Secreting your person in “Such a manner, that no living crea “ture may come to the knowledge of y what is become of you, till you at vol. III K “tain
r 13° I
tain the age which puts you irr post “Session of your fortune; at which “period, I promise, by everything. “the most faered, to restore you to liberty, on condition that you give me your hand at the altar; wshich terms (should you be So indiscreet ** to refuse) I, in the same solemn“ “, swear never to reveal to your friends the place of your con finement, in which cafe you will probably live and die where you “show are.” I burst into tears on hearing this dreadful sentence pronounced against she, implored his pity, upbraided him with his cruelty,, ■threatened revenge; in short, tried every means either to soften or frighten him, but both ineffedually. He answered, that the orders he had given to the nuns were so positive, that, all my actions should be watched, and
I not
4
r. 131 ]
r
1 not be suffered to make use of pen or paper; that he had nothing to fear from my resentment; desiring me to remark at the same time, that I had everything to hope from his love, if I would show myself deserving of it. here he rose, and precipitately left the room. I now looked upon myself • to be a prisoner for life : I wept, I tore my hair; in short, I was frantic with rage and despair, when two .old nuns, seizing me by the arms, convey,, me into a bedchamber, where they, began to reason with me, but to no purpose. I raved myself tired, inveighing bitterly against the Severity, of my fate, and the barbarity of my persecutor. At last, I exhausted my -- Self sofar, as to fall quite senseless upon the bed. One of the lay Sisters sat up with me all night; fly Spoke to me frequently, but I heard not what
K 2 she
/
f 132 J
she Said. She has Since told me, that towards morning I had three convulsion fits, which alarmed them all greatly. A physician was sent for, who declared I was dying with grief and want of nourishment. He then ordered the nuns to force some strong broth down my throat, in cafe I should refuse to drink k, but wished them rather to sooth my sorrows, and to persuade me to take food, than to use violence. All arts and entreaties were accordingly made use of in order to engage me to eat, but to no purpose, *, obstinately refused all Sustenance, being resolved in my own mind to die of hunger. They then forced my mouth open,, in order to make me Swallow; and by so doing, put me to such excruciating pain,, that rather than Suffer a repetition of it, I promised to drink Some broth; I did So, and found
myself
> "*
[ 3
myself much revived by it, to my no Small mortification. (’tis not So easy a matter to die when one pleases, as I had Supposed it to be, Lucy.) A venerable nun now taking my hand, with a sanctified air, and a voice tuned to piety, said“ “courage, my child,
” Such is the cruel manner in which
« 9
the evil spirit torments his votaries.”
I stared at her, not comprehending what she meant; when going on, thank God, the wicked one dare not “enter these holy walls, so that, - my “dear child, you will (I trust in the “bleflfed Virgin) be soon brought back to the paths of virtue, and all her paths are peace.” Madam,
I replied, am 1 then so great a finner?
I confess I am not conscious of being So. Not conscious of it! answered she, why, sure you can never pretend that adultery is no crime, when it is forbid
K 3
[ 134 ]
by God himself in his holy commands ments? I don’t understand you, said I; it is then possible to commit adultery without ever having been marrir edi suppose, otherwise I cannot be in the predicament. Come, come, replied the old nun, I won’t be accef saiy to the damning of your precious Soul, by talking to you any longer, as I find the truth is not in you; So Saying, she left me. I now Saw that George Boothhy had placed me in the convent as being his wife, which an ‘ fwered three very essential purposes; first, that they could not make a nun of me, as being a married woman;
'next, that they would not dare to deliver me up into any other hands than my supposed hushand’s; and thirdly, that they could have no pretence to refuse my going with Um, whenever he demanded me. I can write no more
% at
m
\
I *35 1
at present, my dear, the packet will be too large for the post. I have wrote by this mail to my guardian;
Ms answer will determine my return to England, or my stay here. I am anxious to know my fate, as I really am distraded with impatience to see you all again; especially you, the partner of my heart: I expect a letter from you tomorrow. Adieu, God bless you and your Malcom, prays your .truly affectionate
Rennes. Julia boltom
\
From the famte to the same.
TH E winds, my dear Lucy, have been contrary for this week past.
So that all the mails are on our fide s you will therefore probably receive this with that I wrote some days ago, aad sent with one for'mr, Boothhy. I
K 4 have
V —
[ '36 ]
have nothing new to Say, So shall go on with my tedious history.
I continued to keep my bed for sometime; the little prospect I saw of ever getting out of this prison, unless upon conditions, which to me were worse than the evil, contributed greatly to the impeding my recovery, or rather was the cause of my disease. However, at last my youth, together with a ray of hope, which Sometimes, though faintly, dawned upon my imagination, restored me, if not to health, at least to the' power of quitting my room, and walking about the house. I now began to endeavour, by the most mild and obliging behaviour, to gain the friendship of all my female companions; hoping, that among the ' number, I might be able to find one who would be good-natured enough to get me a letter conveyed to the
i '*
post;
[ '37 1
pofl; but I resolved to be certain of
not meeting with a refusal before I
O
ashed the favour. The thought of ■ you, my Lucy, was the most painful to me; I felt the want of such a friend so forcibly, that every moment in which your idea presented itself to my mind, I burst out into a flood of tears:
I do affure you, my dear, that the idea of my beloved Harry affected me less. One day, when I happened to be in the room where the boarders work and play, I saw a young Lady with a letter in her hand; I said carelessly“ “do you get letters con“ “to the post here, you give “them to the touriere, I suppose?” ?” ' Madam, replied the'girl, we carry them alvrays to the abbess, and fly. dispofes of them as she pleases. If, after having perused them, they meet with her approbation, she Sends them
as
[, IS 1
as directed, if not, she throws them into the fire. This was a dreadful piece of information for me; I affected, however, hardly to give any attention to it, and talked of something elfe, though my heart was bursting with grief to find all avenues for my deliverance thus shut against me.
There is a day in the year on which the pensioners in a convent are permitted to wear the nuns habit, and even to exercise their Several employments, such as porter, tourriere, sexton, Gfc. And in order not to create ' jealousies among the girls, they choose out the oldest of them, who draw lots for these high offices. This day of festivity, I was informed, was not far off; I interested myself very little in the joy, ' all my companions seemed to express on this occasion. I had from the first entrance into the convent,
been
I
t 139 ]
been watched in So afllduous a manner, as never to be one moment in the day out of the company of one or other of the nuns, and in the evening about Seven o’clock, when they all went to ' bed, I was by one of them constantly locked into my room, where, if I did not choose to go to bed, I was left to amuse myself as I thought proper in the dark; for they would not trust me with a light, lest my despair (they said) might urge me to fire the house. This circumstance made me pafs most nights iri my clothes. The being deprived of a candle will doubtless appear a thing of little importance to you, my dear; but it was a matter of real affiidion to me. You can have no ^ notion of the dead silence which reigns in a convent, after the family are gone to bed; it is as if all nature was annihilated except yourself; and to be
found
[ 140 ]
found only in religious houses, whose high and thick walls, together with the distance at which they are commonly built from either town or village, contribute greatly to the dreadful silence which I would here fain describe, but find It impossible: : human creature, beast, or fowl, are near enough to be heard; for which reason the stillnefs is so sensible, that the very fetching of one’s own breath appears loud enough to startle one. This circumstance was not (you may imagine) calculated to enliven my ideas: I often wept myself almost blind during the night, but asteded an air of cheerfulness and ease during the day. I objected to nothing they imposed upon me, nor expressed the least dif iike to anybody or anything in the iiouse. By this conduct I perceived I .became to be less narrowly watched;
and
ft
t T
and though I had no fixed scheme Inf my head of any kind, yet I was pleased at finding myself more at liberty. I now grew into favour with the lady abbess and all her nuns, the pensioners too strove who should make themselves most agreeable to me. I forgot to tell you, Lucy, that when I put on my own clothes (at the place where' we stopped before George carried me to the nunnery), my pockets were ar part of my dress, which on feeling in, I found a purse with forty loids dors in it, which had been put there by Boothby, I fuppose. This was a treasure, and I made use of it with discretion, not knowing when I might have more, as I had not yet heard a word from my tormentor. 1 made; however, small presents to the nuns, and gave little treats to the borders, by which means I insinuated myself
into
#
t 142 3
into their favour sooner than 1 should have done by any merit they might have perceived, either in my character or conduct;; even carried my hypocrisy So far, as to lament to the nuns that it was not in my power to become one of their Society; adding, that if it was, I would instantly renounce the world, and Spend the rest of my days among them. This piece of flattery is irresistible with all reciuses; they embraced me by turns, and lifting up their eyes, said, Who knows but it may please God to take your hus“ “to himself, and then we shall“ “the happiest creatures on earth, - “in the acquifltion of so amiable a “sister.” These little arts, which I hope were innocent, as they injured no body, and procured me more ease in my wretched situation, succeeded So well, that I was not only no longer
watched.
[ h3 I
watched, but great confidence was placed in me. I had now a candle in my room, my door was never locked,, and all possible liberty was given me within the circle of the convent walls; so that I began Seriously to think of some means to escape from this prison,
■ and imagined, that if I could get permission to go to the parlours Sometimes, I might perhaps find an opportunity of getting a letter conveyed to England for me. For this purpose I - wrote a long one to you, my dear, which I constantly kept in my pocket, that it might be ready if an occasion offered of sending it. I succeeded sofar in my plan as to get leave to accompany any of the young Ladies tp the grate, when their friends alked for them there; but on these occasions I saw nothing but French people, relations of the girls whom 1 accompanied
[ 144 ]
pafiied thither, and who all of them looked, I thought, more likely to betray than assist me. Thus your letter wore itself out in my pocket; and now the grand day arrived, on which we were all to be nuns for twelve hours : Accordingly, being dressed in old gowns and veils of the religious, v/e were summoned into the church to draw lots for the places we were to fill. It was my chance to be facris taine (or Sexton), by which means I became mistress for that day of the church, and had the power even of going into the outer one which opened into the country. There are two or three rooms appropriated for the use of the priest, who is the confessor and Sayer of mass to the convent, in which he drestes and undreffes. Here too are depoflted all the riches of the altar, as well as the priest’s costly
robes
ft
[ 145 : i
robes. You know, or have heardy my dear, that the churches of nunneries arc divided by an iron grate, one part of which belongs to the nuns, and
is in the interior of the house, and the
/ • '
other part is open to anybody who chooses tb hear mass in it. A curtain is generally drawn over the grate on the nuns fide, to prevent their being seen. As I was trotting about in my new employment, it came into my head that I would go into the outer church, to look at a fine picture ox St. Sahaftian, which was over the altar, and which had often called my i attention, as being (I thought) an exact representation of myself, as he is always drawn pierced all over his body with darts. I did so unobserved, tho’
I should not have cared who had seen me, as it was my right to have free egress and regress for that day in my
vol. Ill, L own
0
.
y
[ 1+6 ]
own distrids : I peeped, however, to See if anybody was there before I ventured in, and perceiving no one, I approached the altar; but heaven and earth! how shall I give you the Smallest idea of my surprise 1 when, on turning my head at the sound of footsteps, I Saw my Harry, my dear Harry Boothhy, just entering the church door. I Screamed, and fell insensible to the ground. How long I continued foi know not; but on coming to myself, I found Harry supporting me on one fide, and two or three of the pensioners on the other, the nuns not daring to approach, as there was a man with us: For observe, that though the fa cristaine has the power of going into ^ the outer church at pleasure, in order to decorate the altar, dress the lamp, sdc. yet she always sends a penfloner before, in order to fasten the door
which
/.
[ 147 ]
which goes into the world, as they call it. This precaution I had omitted, or rather did not think necessary. I now raised my eyes on my Harry, saying in Englifio, ’ “You See where I am, “it will be imposhble for me to go “off with you now; procure autho rity to take me from hence, and I “will follow you to the end of the “world, nor shall Fate herself ever “divide us more.” He answered Something inarticulately, when I deflred to be carried into the convent, which was instantly done. My prudence on this occasion will probably Surprise you, Lucy \ but I had thought more during the time I Spent in this retreat, than I had ever done in all the prior part of my life; I was Sure (by what I had heard from george’s own mouth) that to be found out by any of my fi'iends, was to be free; Since Such
. L 2 positiye
[ 14^ 1
posttive orders had been given to all ‘ the Intendants, ide. of the provinces in France, to deliver me to my friends wherever I should be met With; and to have attempted going away then with Harry would have been imposhble, as the nuns were all astembled ar the vestry door, and would most certainly have torn me from him, as he was alone : Besides, the five or six girls who held me, would never have suffered him to have carried me off:
t
my dress too was. an impediment to my fiigjjit, as I should have been flopped by every good catholic vrhich I had ' met on the road, and conducted back to the sold as a Stray sheep. In short, I acted right, though by chance, I believe, rather than refiedion, as my spirits were too much agitated to rea
X O
fon much at the time, yet 1 did reason a little. I had been in a manner in;;.. ■...
*
[ h9 1
iired to the moil alarming fitiiations sot sometime past, and my mind consequently was not so easily thrown out of its bias, as it would probably have been, had I been less tutored in the school of adverlity. On entering the convent, everybody alked at once, what had occasioned my fright? I answered, that I went to look at the’ picture, feeing that there was no body in the church, when all of a sudden a man came in and took hold of me, and that I had fainted away with terror, not knowing what he might do. with me, as I was all alone; besides,
I dreaded their anger, at my negligence in not having fastened the outer door. They inquired if I knew the man? I replied in the negative, but that I thought he spoke engujh, which had made me scold him for his impertinence in that language. They
L 3 approved
[ 15° ]
approved much of my conduct, believed all, I said, and gave me a glass of wine to cheer my spirits. A cordial was very unnecessary at that jiindure, as it required the utmost effort of my reason to keep my joy at this unexpected event, within the bounds of moderation. I managed, however, pretty well, the licence of the day gave a sort of sanction to my mirth, and consequently they made no observations on the excess of it, which, in spite of all my prudence, appeared in every look and action: This I being conscious of, pretended fatigue, and therefore retired to my chamber earlier than my companions, in order, when alone, to give full vent to the pleasure which filled my heart at having seen my Harry *, to know that I should be released from this odious confinement, and restored to my friends
and
t II ]
and liberty; arid that I Should owe all these immense blessings to the man I loved, was joy too great almost for my brain. I was lost in ecstasy when I thought that I should certainly see my lover soon again, that he would now become my guide, protector, and friend. Good God! cried I, it is too much, I cannot bear it. Happily a flood of tears came to my relief, or I really believe I Should have gone mad. I went to bed, but could not sleep; I paired Some hours in mental praise and thanksgiving to the Almighty disposer of all things, who had thus deigned to. relieve the Sorrows of his creature.
The next morning paflfed without my hearing anything of Harry, which I was not surprised at, as I supposed it would require time to procure proper authority for taking me out of
L ^ the
ft
2
[ 152 ]
the convent: Yet I was melancholy; Sulpenfe killed me; and in Short, I was Scarcely in my fenses till the following day; when, pretty early in the morning, the Lady abbess sent for me to her apartment. On enter.. it, fly Said to me, with tears in her eyes, “I am very Sorry, my dear “young Lady, that I Should have ‘‘ been accessary to your confinement;
“I was led into an error by that egre ‘‘ gious villain who placed you here “as his wife'; I hope my ignorance “of the truth will plead my apolo “gy.” I resign you with grief, my dear (continued this worthy woman), because I cannot bear to part with you; though at the same time I rejoice that you are going to rejoin your friends, whose sorrow for your loss, I can, easily imagine from what I now feel on the same, occasion. Here she
dropped
•[ 153 1
I
dropped a tear; I pressed her to my bosom, and if I did not feel regret at parting with her, I did a tender gratitude for her fenflbility. I thanked her with warmth for all her goodness to. me; Ihe begged I would favour her with a line now and then, to inform her of my health arid safe arrival in England; hoped for the honour of my remembrance, and,, if possible, a small snare in my friendlhip. I promised everything She ashed; she then conducted me to the great gates, which
o o • ^
being opened, I flew instantly into the arms of my Harry, who stood there, accompanied by two other Gentlemen ready to receive me: They in a inoment lifted me into a coach and drove
V
away. Here I shall pause— — sequel in my next; till when adieu. Ever
I
yours,
Rennes. Julia Bolton.
Mrs.
r
\!
I 154 ]
Mrs. Merton to Lady Tatton.
/
Dear Madam,
I Am ordered by the amiable Lady Malcom to inform your Ladyship and Lord Tatton, that she surrendered her liberty yesterday morning, by giving her hand to Lord Malcom at the altar; (these are her own words), the rest, she Says, she has nothing to do with, having only promised that I should inform your Ladyship and her brother when the affair was over. I need not tell you that our charming friend looked like the goddess of love, and behaved like an angel; you who know her. Madam, could not doubt of these truths. The old people on both Tides showed the most lively pleasure at the union of their children; as to the bridegroom’s behaviour, it was
an
- ft
[ 155 ]
an exact copy of your mate’s on the same occasion; Lady lucy’s too, in many reipefts, was the counterpart of your ladyship’s, only she was, I thought, rather more serious. After the ceremony, we dined at Richmond, walked in the gardens in the afternoon, then played at cards, supped, and went to bed. Nobody who had seen us would have supposed it had been a wedding day, except from the glow of pleasure which animated every countenance present. Your filler would not be called a bride, so she was Lady imcy ali day; this morning she permits me to give her the name of Malcom. We are to leave this amiable couple after dinner; they will remain by themselves for a day or two, and then return to town and show away.
"We hope shortly to see our dear long loll Julia in England. I here enclose
{. ]
close to your Ladyship a letter, which my father received from her a few days ago: ’what his answer to her will be I cannot absolutely decide; but if I know his heart, he will purchase her return at any price. Come then, my dear Madam, and partake our bliss. Lord and Lady Malcom are impatient to see you, as is your ever affectionate friend, and obliged humble servant,
Richmond. Louisa Merton.
ft
Miss Bolton to George Boothby, Dear Sir,
IT O W shall I find words to thank you as I ought, for the pain and trouble I have (though, thank God, involuntarily) brought upon you and your family? Strange! What a fate
is
[ 157 I
is mine, that I should be thus destined to be the cause of afilicstion to those whom I love with a filial affeffion, and whose peace I would willingly purchase at the expense of my own. My dear Sir and Madam, do not love me the less for being thus unfortunate; I tremble, lest for the future the sight of me (which used to give you pleasure) Should now become the source of painful refiestions to my worthy parents. Forgive your fon. Sir, I beg you would; /, who am certainly the person most injured, plead for him; restore him to his liberty, I beseech you : Perhaps it may be prudent to keep him out of England, both for his and our safety;; at least give him freedom, and affluence in his banishment. I cannot bear to be the cause of difiention between you and George I dare say he is truly peni
4 tent
[ *58 ]
tent by this time, as he has paid a much higher price for his frolic than he ever intended, and even than I have done, since the innocent are never half so wretched as the guilty. You already know, my dear Sir, that I owe my deliverance to your fon Hetiry *, Providence decided at our birth that he should ever be my defender and protector through life. He is at present with me, nor will I part with him;
• therefore give us leave to throw ourselves at your feet in England, or I will never return to it: If; as you say,. my father left my fortune in your power till I am five and twenty, in
cafe I married without your consent:
0 *
keep the money, Sir, only give me your fon; I will myself wait upon the Chancellor, and tell him my story. His heart, I am persuaded, will not be so insensible to companion, as yours
has
* /
4
[ 159 ]
has ever been on the fubjeist. Promise me then, my dear Mr. Boothhjy that you won’t send Harry ' from me, nor oppose our union when I come of age, and I will retiiui with transport to the arms of you, and my honoured mother Mrs. Boothhy. The rest of my life shall be spent in soothing thole cares, which I have been cruelly northeast celtitated to bring on you both. Let my henry’s virtues console you for the ' faults of his brother; take him and I under your paternal wings — let the scene of our mutual happiness be the source of your joys; we will never leave you, we will live with you and our mother; and by our constant attention to your precious healths, as well as our altiduous care to contribute all in our power to your mutual felicity, pro long those days which will ever be as dear to us as our own, Ensure therefore,
9*
■ [ io ],
ft
fore, my dear father, your own happiness by confirming ours; confider, that we shall certainly not be the less married, though you should refuse your consent. Do not therefore damp our joys, by withholding your blessing from us. I tell you honestly, that I have, bv the force of carefies and
y id ^
persuasion, made your fon deviate a 'little from that rigid duty towards his X parents, which he had ever held so si' credi But put yourself in his place, ihy good guardian, and tell me candidly, at his age, would you havere ■ fused me? Our fate is in your hands, Sir, promise to comply with my request, and we will be with you as Safi as wind and horses will carry us; but do not think to separate us. Harry
has Sworn that no violence shall tear
♦
him from me, so you See wear both pretty resolute. If yoiir Son was in
love
/
[ ii ].;
*
lave with my fortune, he would be unworthy of me : but no, for I am absolutely certain, that I Should not be an atom less dear to him if I was as poor as I am rich. Nay, I really believe, that I am the latter in a superlative degree, is a circumstance which rather gives him pain than pleasure.
In short, my dear Sir, Harry is the model of yourself? Ought he'not therefore to be the man of my choice?
Your last favour arrived safe through the hands of Lady Malcom \ continue' to make use of the same conveyance, if you please, for never shall you know where I am (by my means) till you. consent to make your fon and I happy. My tenderest love to Mrs. Boothhy, and my dear Lotiifa, to whom I wish a happy time; tell her it will be your fault if I dont stand godmother to her child. I am, dear Sir, your vol. III M ever
ft.
V
/
I ft
. ' ^ [ 162 J
ever affedlionate and obliged friend arid daughter,
, Julia Bolton.
_ /
hady Tatton to Lady Malcom.
JO Y, my dear Lucy, joy to you and your happy mate; my husband is all transport upon the occasion: He says, your were so long about it, that he frequently trembled lest some un forcfeen event should have prevented your union. He hates long courtships, my dear, which was one reason I yielded so soon. We shall be in town in a few days, I hope.., How delightful you have made us, by the account you write of our amiable friend Julia *, Mrs. Merton too has been very kind on that head. Your brother, Swears he will cut george’s throat, if ever he meets him in England God
keep
V
/
/
I
[ i63 ]
keep him out of it, I say, but he is safe enough at present, that is my comfort. What a consummate villain he must be, and howshas the poor dear girl suffered!
Her letter to Mr. Boothhy charmed me, it is wrote with so much spirit and resolution. The old man must be mad if he still continues to oppose what it is no longer in his power to hinder.
, ■ l\re Haekits have not yet lest Bath, the young man told me the other day, that he had already recovered sixty thousand pounds of his wife’s fortune, and by what he could learn, that rascal Wilker had at least twenty thousand pounds of Mr. macallen’s in his hands at the time of his death, but that he supposed was irretrievably gone, as the birds were flown; which he observed gave him very little concern, as he had already a great deal too
M 2 ^ much
»
\
[ 164 I
riliich money, if it was not that he' thought his Jenny could never have ' enough; for as to himself he could have been supremely happy in a cottage with her. I alked him how he stood in the good graces of his father and mother I He. answered, that they were upon civil terms,) and no more; for Sir Jasper had never forgiven him in his heart since the lawsuit, which decided his right to the estate. left him by his grandfather. And indeed,. added Mr. Hackit, I am sorry now that ever I claimed it; butl could not foresee what would happen, and at that time I thought I must have starved without it, as, my father would not allow me enough to maintain myself and wife with decency. I now inquired after Mrs. Macallen -, he replied, llie declines fasti think, Madam, which I am sorry for, as it apparently gives
Jenny.
*
[ 1% 3,
Jenny so much concern; otherwise, upon the whole, I don’t much admire her myself; but she is my jenny’s mother, and as such I shall always show her all possible respect. Pray, said I, if it is not impertinent, Mr. Hackih, What was her motive for leaving her husband?? “says, difference in • “opinions on religious matters, was “the foie cause;; Mrs. Smith, who was at Madrafs when the Reparation happened, tells another story, as “indeed I find, do most people who “were then on the spot.” I asked him, if he did not think it very extraordinary, that she should never either have seen or wrote to her children in the course of so many years, though she knew perfectly well where they were i He replied, Yes, soit is;
'“but still more foi think, that she should have petitioned, the Eaji
M 3 ■ India
- [ i66 ]
“India Company for her hulband’s. “effects, without ever mentioning her “children. But on the contrary, pre“ “that Ihe was his only living “heir. This Ihe did, I find, imme “diately upon Mr. macalled.s decease.” There is a mystery in all this, said he, which I believe preys upon her mind, and will probably be unravelled when she approaches her end. “She declares her first motive ‘‘ for putting the advertisement into the papers was, on reading a para“ “in the Gazetteer, which I had caused to be inserted; that on such a day Mr. Hackit, fon of Sir Jasper“ “of Ivy Cajile, c. was mar“ “to Miss Jenny Homes, daughter ‘‘ of the late Patrick Homes, Esq, who, ‘‘ had been many years Governor of “'Madrafs in the Eaji indies. Yet ^ observe, that it was long after my
“marriage
t >^7 ]
marriage that she advertised for her daughter. In short, I will say no “more about her, but I have my own “private thoughts on the matter, Here he looked at his watch, and finding it dinner time, took his leave.
This is a puzzling .affair, Lucy, but time, the great revealer of all myfte r ries, will, I suppose, clear it up one of these days.
Since I wrote the above, Lord Tatton has sprained his ankle with jumping out of his chariot *, he is confined to his bed with it. This ugly accident will prevent our being in town, so soon as we intended. I was a good deal frightened when it happened, and was bled; but have found no bad con quences from it, thank God. Tell
Lord Malcom, I desire he would take
/
my Edward for th e pattern of perfee fion as a husband.. iio, let him
M follow
O •
[ i68 ],
follow the dictates of his ov/n, good heart, and then he will make just such' ' as his friend does. As to wives, I dare not talk of them, being conscious how far you will outshine me in that article: So no comparisons, I beseech you, if you love your truly afteftionate
Bath. Jane Tatton.
Miss Bolton to Lady Malcom.
My amiable friend! may you be as happy in marriage as you deserve to be, or as the wishes of your Julia would make you, which comes to the same thing. Tell Lord Malcom I sincerely rejoice at your mutual felicity; entreat him to honour me with a share in his friendship, I will always endeavour to preserve so precious a favour, which I have some right to,
both
♦
[ i69 ]
both on my henry’s account as well as your ladyihip’s, as he avers, that he is as much attached to your Augustus as I am to my Lucy. Beg of him to forgive my having delayed his union with ypu. Had I known I did foi should have had a sorrow the more to have combated with. Indeed, my dear, it was refining too much on friendship, not to make yourself and lover happy, because I was' wretched; but I was born to be the source of pain to thole who love me, and whom I love. Lady Tatton writes in high spirits. How my heart dilates at the happiness of my friends! Let but my guardian comply with my desires, and I will instantly' ' to partake their joy, and communicate my own. I am impatient till I hear from him.
%
At present I, shall write the sequel of my adventures. I had, in my last, I
2 think,
i
A
I
/
r
$
s
[ 170 ]
think, just left the convent, in company with three Gentlemen. A. the Intendant of the province, [ a lawyer, and my Henry.. Immediately upon being seated in the coach, Harry exclaimed, O! Miss Bblton, this is too great an excess of joy, it is hardly to be born; and yet I must suppress the transports of my heart in this blissful moment before these men. I looked at him, I could not Speak, but my eyes did; and I read in his, that they understood their language. The two Gentlemen congratulated me on my deliverance from the convent, alfuring me, that they thought themselves peculiarly happy in having been instrumental towards the restoring me again
O O
to liberty and my friends. Harry said to me in French (for it would not have been polite to have talked in an unknown tongue before the Gentlemen)
it
[ 17' 3
/
it was not the sight of you, Miss Bolton, which deprived me of the power of speech in the church, but the feeing you in the nun’s habit. I was seized with terror, before 1 had tirpe to recollect that you had not been in the convent longfnough to have past your probation, and to have taken the black veil in which I saw you. Whilst you was in a swoon, I had leisure to recall my scattered ideas, and reflection removed my fears of having lost you irrevocably. Was you then not surprised at the light of me in that convent? said I. No, Madam, he replied, since I knew you was in the house. Heavens! cried I, how came you by that knowledge? I will tell you some other time, said he; but at present it will be necessary to inform you, where you are going to with these Gentlemen and myself. We shall first, if you
please
/
i
t
■[ 172 ], ''
lease, present you to the Duke of
A -- -- -- -, governor of this province, in
order to prove the identity of your jierfon; as also to demand his protection for your future Security whilst you stay here. These steps must be taken, in order to indemnify these Gentlemen, for the having taken you forcibly out of the convent. When this is over, I will, Madam, with your permission, place you with a re ipeftable Lady of my acquaintance, and the lifter of this Gentleman (pointing to the Intendant), who will be a parent to you as long as you Shall choose to stay in her house. I heard all this without giving much attention to it; my whole soul was absorbed in the ecstatic pleasure of gazing on my Hen •fy, azd in thinking that I was at liberty, and ffiould cop fequently soon
see
t
/
V
E u3 ]
{ee my Lucy, and the rest of my valuable friends.
When we came to Rennes, the coach Stopped at a grand hotel there; I was presented to the Duke of A — - —; he received me with the polite ease of a Frenchman of the first distinction, asked me several questions, read some papers which Harry gave him, and the'ii turning to me, said“ “like ' “yours,. Miss Bolton, is almost a fuf “ficient apology for any crime which “might be committed, in order ta “obtain the pofieffion of it: How“
“I heartily sympathise wntlr “you, in the sufferings you have gone “through, and infinitely rejoice at “your restoration to liberty; long “may you liveto enjoy that and every ‘‘ other blessing. And nov, Made“ “I beg you would command “my services to the utmost of my
“power,.
\.
1 ' •
ft
,, f 04 ]
“power, wtthout any reserve.” ’ I said a number of fine things in return for ail this civility, and then his Grace introduced me to his Duchess; She was a fine woman, and received me with an affecting tenderness in her manner, which touched .me, and prejudiced rne much in her favour. Harry now entered her grace’s apartments; upon which I took my leave, but not till I had promised to dine with her ' the shext day. The three Gentlemen and I got into the coach again; we dropped the lawyer by the way, and at last arrived at a handsome house, where we stopped; this was, I found, to be the place of my residence. I was met upon the stairs by the in tendanfs sister, Madame des Touches; her figure was engaging, and her manner still more so. She clasped me in her arms with the French vivacity,
saying.[
.[ ]
saying, Charming girl! What have you gone through! my heart bleeds to think of it; but thank God, I hope it is all over now. We Soon went to. dinner, which when over, the Intend. ant and his Sister retired, apologising, however, for leaving us alone, though it was evident that they did So on purpose.
The moment they disappeared, Harry threw himself at my feet, and re speftfully taking one of my hands, he kissed it, saying, O! Miss bouon, what felicity is this! Divine Julia, how my soul dotes on you! I ftoeped, and • putting my cheek to his, cried. My beloved Harry, my heart’s too full, I cannot speak; and foi burst into tears. Henry, whose respect is equal to his love, took no advantage of the disorder, which my joy on feeing him at my knees, had thrown me into; he seated himself by me, his,
eyes
S., ■ *
L -. ' [ ■ 176 J ■ ' '
r eyes spoke the exeefs his passion, more ■ than his words; they were full of tears of affection, and an universal tremor shook his frame. I began to fear at last, that the scene might grow too ' tender, foi begged he would inform me how he carrie by the intelligence of my being in the eorivent, from whence he had that day taken me? He would' have deferred tile narration, but I insisted, and he answered, I must obey you,, my angel. Know then, that I had received many letters from my father, both from Enfand, Rouen, and Paris; in all of them he exhorts me to make the most diligent search after you, and sends me the proper authorities for your deliverance, out of the hands' of those who might be found to
'o
have detained you from your friends. and country. I was, (you may be certain, Julia) almost out of, my senses
with
i.
/
[ 177 L.,
with grief, when I heard that you had been run away with •, but judge (if, you can) of the horror which seized me, on being informed that the ra visher was George Boothhy. I need not tell you, my dear girl, of the unwearied pains I took to discover the place of your confinement; but for a length of time ali my labours proved vain.
To add to my disappointment, my father, on his arrival in London, wrote me how fruitiest all his inquiries after you had been. I therefore returned home, firmly persuaded in my own mind, that fatigue and vexation had killed you *, and that your being dead was the cause of george’s obstinate silence. This cruel idea flung me into a state of mind bordering on despair;; one day, as I was sitting alone, weeping over your piftiire, a servant. told me that an Englishman desired to • vol. III N speak
178 ]
speak to me. My heart leapt at the news, - hoping that I might possibly hear Something about my lost Julia. I bid the Servant show the person in.. He entered; when Ihutting the door, he advanced to me. Saying, “don’t “you know me, Sir?” I looked steadfastly in the fellow’s face,, and then re gollefted Thomas, yf\io had hetngeorge’s servant on his travels, and whom I had frequently Seen with him.. Where is your master, villain? cried I, Seizing him by the throat, and where is that injured innocence, miss Bolton? Have patience,. Sir, he replied coolly, and I will tell you all I know of both of
them. The fellow then related to me
«
how you was taken away from Soho; with a circumstantial account of all that happened to you till you was placed in a convent. His master, he Said, having Secured you there, reft

turned..
z
I
[ 179 ]
turned to Rennes, staved there that night, where he bought a couple of bad horses, and then ordered Thomas ' to procure afailor’s jacket for himself. He did so; and the next morning they mounted their nags, and rode slowly on the road. “My master (said the “fellow) being plunged in the deepest“ “and not seeming to “know which road to take, whether to “the coast or to Paris. I observed him “to flgh frequently; at last he said“ “Thomas, if are but faith“ “I have nothing to fear, for no “body but you can prove that Miss“ “was ever with me since her “elopement. I have secured her from “telling tales, and is you blab, you “villain, I will most certainly be the ‘‘ death of you; but on the contrary, “should you continue incorruptible “in your integrity to me, I here
N 2 “swear
I
• [ iso ]
‘ swear that I will make your fortune.
. ^ I promised to be faithful; when putting on his horse brifldy, he cri“ “then away for England, we shall“ “find Ships either at Rouen or at Dieppe, which will convey us ‘‘ thither in a few hours. The horses ‘‘ however, were in no hurry, nor could they be prevailed on to go “faster than a gentle trot, so that we ‘‘ were a considerable time before we “arrived at Rouen. My master put “up there, at a little house in the “suburbs, purposing to go to Dieppe “the next day; but one of our horses“ “lame, we could not go that “day, folie, wandered about the fields “all the morning, not choosing to go “into the town, though he relied “much on his disguise, and often said“ “body could know him. In one “of these melancholy walks he was
“met •
[■ isi ]
I
met bv his father and Mr. Merton •,
J ^
ft
“you know the rest, Sir. I was dressing my horses, when a country fel ‘‘ low, who was drinking at the door, “said, there is a great bustle in our town just now, two englijjo Gentle“ “have taken up a third, they say, and put him into prison, for running away with a fine young La“ “that is vastly rich. I listened“ “longer, but Saddling my horse“ “Vhiftling, as, if I had “heard nothing of the story. I then mounted one horse, and left the * “other to discharge the reckoning. No body took any notice of my ‘‘ riding away; as I left the lame ‘‘ horse, they imagined, I suppose“ “I was only gone to fetch the ‘‘ farrier. I now made the best of “my way from a place in which I was certain of fiiaring my mafterst fate,
N 3 y if
V
%
'[ 182 ],
“if I was caught; - and knowing from your brother where you was, Sir, I in“ “resolved to make all the repa “ration in my power to the injured “young Lady, whom I had involunta “rily contributed to distress. I fre “quently willed, Sir, to have rescued“ “from my master; my heart ached “to see her take on as she did, but I “knew he would kill me if he Should“ “us; and I saw no sure means of escaping with her, especially as we “had no money, for my master had “taken away her pockets. However, “had he ever attempted to dishonour“ “Lady, I would have risked my life in her defence; but to do him “justice, he always behaved with “great respect to Miss Bolton. I de“ “to you, Sir, and i.beg you “would believe me, that I intended y to have given my master the slip at
“Dieppe,
\
t 183 ]'
“Dieppe, and then I would have made “the best of my way to you, inor “der to have told your honour all I “knew of this cruel affair.” The fellow wiped his eyes frequently whilst he narrated all the diftrelies you went through, Julia. This mark of hissenli bility, together with the interesting piece of intelligence he brought me about you, made me much more inclined tto take him in my arms,, than to pu aiilh him, as he Seemed apprehensive of. It was him, my dear Julia, that conducted meto your convent, and he is now, with what little baggage I brought with me, at the inn: I did not bring another coat, as you may easily suppose, the end of his narration to have .'been the beginning of my journey to release you; for I flew on the wings of love, to give liberty to the idol of, .my heart. The Lady you are now
, N 4 witsh
/
[ is ]
with, Said he, Julia, has a fon, who was in the same counting house as myself for two years; we contrasted a flncere friendship for each other in the course of that time; he it was who made me acquainted with his worthy mother. I now thanked my deliverer as I ought, for all the blessings he had bellowed on me, and the zeal he had Shown in my service. I found Madame des Touches had - offered him an apartment in her house, which I was glad as I was a perfect Stranger to the Lady. I shall not trouble you, my dear Lucy, with describing the people ■ I am with, nor the rest of rriy acquaintance, which are numerous; suffice it, that I am as happily fltuated as I can be, at such a distance from. my beloved friends: it is hn their power to recall me, Use your interell with Mr. Boothby for that purpose,
my
I
r 185 ]
f
my dear, and believe me invariably, your ladyship’s ever affectionate friend
and obliged humble servant
/
Julia Bolton.
/
9
\
George Boothby, Esq to the Hon.
Miss Bolton.
My ever dear Ward,
IT is I that should makeexcufes to you for the outrages which you have suffered from a fon of mine.
Alas! Julia, why is he so? But I submit to the will of Providence, who has thought proper to afllift me in my age; for how dare I murmur against his dilpenfations, who has mercifully restored the child of mv adoption to -
i X
liberty and happiness! Harry, and my Louisa; too, are they not blessings to their parents i Yes, surely they are.
Harry never acted contrary to our will,
in
[ i86 ]
in any one instance of his life, till an enchantress (whose power I know to be irreshtible) seduced him from his duty. My dear children, what shall I say to you? I cannot bear to be deprived of you both at once: Come then to the arms of your fond parents; rely upon my tenderness for you, but do not force me to aft diflaonourably.. I cannot consent to your giving your fortune and person to Harry; they are too much, he never can merit such treasures. However, I will tell you, that you are absolute miftress of your fortune at the age of one and twenty. I imposed upon you, when I Supposed iriyfelf vested with the care of your money for four years beyond that period. I meant to Serve you, my dear, .and therefore hope you will pardon the deceit. And now let us compromise matters, Julia, do you promise
me
/
[ 18; ]
me to suffer the whole of your fortune to be fettled on yourself and children, and I will not oppose your marrying Harry, supposing the Chancellor consents to your union; without his approbation, you ought both to be certain, mine must be unobtainable. I have obeyed your orders, my amiable child, with regard to the villain who has treated you lb inhumanly. He has been cited in court, to appear to his own defence, in contempt of which citation he is outlawed.
I have fettled three hundred pounds per annum upon him for life; informing him at the same time, that if ever he is daring enough to fet his feet upon engujh ground, a halter shall be his chastisement. He has forfeited all title to my estate, as well as affections. I shall never acknowledge him for a fon of mine; but on the contrary,
, shall
I 188 ]
shall use my utmost endeavours to forget that there is any such being existing as himself. He shall be fet at liberty as soon as you and my fon are safe arrived in England, but not before, lest he should be tempted to do more mischief.' So come, my dear children, and blessed the longing eyes of your truly affectionate parents,
%
Sotith audley fireet. G. L. Boothby.
P. S. My daughter Merton is most tenderly yours; she has made me a grandfather; Sir Francis is al mcft out of his wits with joy, that the child’s a boy. In short, my girl is happy, and deserves to be so, thank God. Remember you are to be godmother, we expect you both with the utmost impatience; do not, my dear children, defer our happiness.
hady
\
ft
[189]
*
Lady Tatton to Lady Malcom.
My sweet Edward is no longer lame, lister, so we shall be in town, I hope, time enough to meet the lovely Julia. I am sensibly obliged to you, my dear, for the constant accounts you have given me of that amiable girl’s adventures *, she is quite a heroine. I never saw her lover, but Lord Tatton says, he is one of the finest figures in nature, with a mind worthy of the cafe. I don’t doubt it; Julia would not have been so inviolably attached to him, if he had not pofiefied distinguished merit.
O! Lucy, I have such a story to tell you of that wretch Mrs. Macallen, that I really don’t know where to begin; I hate painting bad minds, it leaves a disagreeable imprefiion on the
4 spirits
/
*
[ ]
Spirits when one has done it. I was shocked at hearing the story, but I shall be ten times more So on narrating it; but then, how much am I in your debt on that head i So here it goes.
Mr. Hackit came to See me yesterday in the dark of the evening, ashing the Servants if I was alone i They answered, no body was with me but my Lord; upon which he was shown up into my dressing room. He looked pale, I thought, and much disordered; when advancing to me, he Said, Lady Tatton, I am come to ash a great favour of you. Nshat is it.? Said I; if it is anything in my power, I am Sure I shall most willingly grant it. It is, that your Ladyship would be So kind as to go to my wife, he replied, her mother is just dead, and she is almost out of her senses. I was going to rile, when your brother re
seated
f ^91 ]
seated me gently, saying, no, Jenny I can’t consent to your exposing yourself to such a scene in your present condition, left it should have too great an effect upon your spirits. I have you know, my dear, no will but his, therefore, told Mr. Hackit how sorry I was that my present situation prevent
4
ed my instantly waiting upon Mrs. Hackit, but that if he pleased Lord Tatton would (I was certain, with pleasure) fetch her out of the house of sorrow, and bring her to me. He answered, that he should esteem it as a particular favour, if my Lord would be so obliging. Tatton put on his hat and sword in a moment, and away they went together; and in about an hour’s time returned, leading in Mrs. Hackit, who was almost suffocated with her tears. I soothed her grief as much as I was able; and on being
told
I *
[ 192 ]
toid that she had not been in bed ail ali night, having sat up with her mother, I prevailed on her to drink a ba • of broth, and then to lay down for a few hours. I staid in the room by her, till I found that grief had given way to sleep;; was indeed quite exhausted with sorrow and fatigue. I now returned to the Gentlemen, when Mr. Hackit expressed his sense of my goodness to his wife in the most feeling language; adding, “the manner “of my mother in law’s death, has “affected Jenny much more than the • loss of her would have done; and “the story of her life has shocked the “poor girl almost to death.” I remember, said he, that your Ladyship one day expressed to me a great curiosity on that subject, and it is now in, my powder fully to satisfy it: I earnestly begged he would;; after having
t
1
[ 193 J
Ing drawn a paper out of his pocket, he thus began.
O ^
Your Ladyship and Lord Tatton both know, that Mrs. Macallen has for. sometime been in a declining state of ‘ health: The Bath waters were pre feribed for her; but instead of their, doing' her any good, I really am of opinion they have hastened her end. The day before yesterday she was suddenly seized with the most violent pain in her bowels imaginable; she shriek.. with the agonies she suffered, till you might almost have heard her hither. The doctor gave her opium, 1 believe, for she was easier at intervals, and then she raved and talked like a drunken person. She frequently cried out — I did not kill my husband, it • was Wilker did it. Thus she continued for sometime, till at last she grew calmer; but the physicians .declared Vol. IIL O that
[ 19+ J
that a mortification was inevitable, consequently ihe could not live long. This opihiori of theirs I thought proper to inform her of; and at the fam^ time alked her, if she chose to see a clergymen? She fetched a deep sigh; and answered, yes. Sir, if you please; and the sooner the better, for, God knows, I have a long account to settle,, and but a short time to do it in. I instantly sent for Dr. Smith, your Ladyship knows him, therefore I need not tell you that he is an honour to his cloth; he came immediately. On his entrance into Mrs. Mac ailed, s room, she said, I desire everybody may quit the chamber but the doctor and my fon Hackit. They did So; when raising herself a little on her pillow, she Said, in a Saint voice, “If the confefilon of “an ill spent life can be any sort of “atonement fqr it, I am ready to
“make
N
f
E 195 ]
“make a candid acknowledgment of
all my fins.” The doctor replied, that as an aft of contrition, he hoped, and believed, it would be acceptable to God. She then desired me to reach a little box to her, which stood upon the bureau, bidding me at the same time take the keys out of her pockets and open it. I obeyed; it was full of papers. She said (pointing with her finger) “that tied with red tape is “what I want, give it the doctor, arid “desire hinri to read it aloud.” This
f • ^
is the paper, said Mr. Hackit; which Dr. Smith then read, and which I will now read to you.
“I am the daughter of a irierchant at Frankfurt in Germany, who was doatingly fond of me, as was my mother, whom I lost when I was fifteen years old; a period of. time when I wanted her maternal care the most.
O 2 About
[ 196 ]
About a year before her death, my father had taken into his counting house an engujh lad, whole name was Fletcher % he was about nineteen years of age, and of a handsome figure, but his mind was corrupt,, he being a perfect libertine both in practice and principles. His father kept a livery liable in London. This young fellow had never at traded my notice dur in g my mother’s life, but after her death he and I were frequently left alone together of an evening, when my father (after the business of the day) used to go and relax himself a little among his friends. Thus exposed to his addresses and importunities, Fletcher took advantage of my youth and v/eakness, and, in Short, ruined me. We carried on our criminal correspondence for near two years, without ever being suspefted by my father, who about that time
was
[ 197 ]
was seized with a Stroke of the dead J paify, wshich took him off in a few days. I was his heir. An uncle of mine fettled all my father’s affairs for me; which, wdren finished, he told me, I was worth six thousand pounds under his guardianship during my nii nority. Not long after this, Mr.. Macallen arrived at Frankfurt, upon what occasion I have forgot, though I
O ^ O
think he had some business to transact with my uncle, who brought him to see me. He lost his heart at first sight, and proposed himself to my guardian, who mentioned it to me as a very advantageous offer, saying“ “I ex“ “niece, that you will receive “the gentleman’s addresses favour“ “I loved Fletcher, but knew I could not marry him till I vras one and twenty; and, his time of appren ticefliip being out, he intended to reo
3 turn
y
%
[ 198 ]
turn to England, having no depend ance but on his father. I believe he would willingly then have made me his wife, could he have secured my fortune; but had I died under age, he never would have had a sixpence of it, and if I lived till then, we had no prospect of anything but poverty and distress in the interim. I consulted Fletcher upon my uncle’s proposal; he advised me by all means to accept of the offer, saying, we can surely deceive your husband, my dear, as weir as we did your father; besides, confider that you may riot perhaps meet with another Englishman for your purpose; and in that cafe, we have no chance of meeting again for some years at least, if ever. This consideration made me comply with my uncle’s request. Mr. Macallen found me very conformable to his wishes, so that in a
decent
I
[ »99 J
decent time we were married. After some weeks spent at Frankfurt, my husband propofed'our going to England; I readily agreed to it, as Fletcher was gone thither a fortnight before, and I longed to follow him. We had contrived to have frequent meetings, however, during the time he staid iri town after my marriage. In short, Mr. Macallen and I came to England;
I gave notice of out arrival to my iot
O m
er; he found means of feeing me in. London, tho’ seldom, and with great difficulty. As a foreigner, I was very remarkable; besides, I was totally un .acquainted with the place, so that We found ourselves much more restrained than we had been at Frankfurt.
My husband, about a year after we came to England, informed me that he was appointed Governor of Madrafs in the Eaft indies. I tfem
O 4 bled
<
N
t 200 ]
✓
bled at the thought of being separated from the man I loved. He promised, however, in order to make me easy, that he would use his utmost endeavours to get named a writer for the Eaft india company at the same place; and that if he succeeded, he would follow me as quick as possible. This prospect; afforded me some consolation. I hated Mr. Macallen, he was much older than I, and had a serious reserved manner, which disgusted me; yet he was tender of, and kind to me, to an excess; nor could I (with justice) complain of any part of his behaviour;
- but I disliked him originally, and conscious of the injuries I daily did, I grew to have an aversion for him. So true it is, that we never pardon ■ those whom we wrong. The violent passion I still retained for Fletcher contributed not. a little to the rendering
my
'9
;
I. 201 ]
my husband disagreeable to me The fatal hour which was to tear me from England arrived at last:, and I was con -- dusted on board of an Indiaman, bound for Madrafs. I had ta, ken an affectionate leave of, my lover the day before my departure *, his dear image employed ail my thoughts, till extreme sickness obliterated his, as well as ali other ideas, from my mind. I expected I should die every minute. Ah! why did I not? I Should then have been saved from becoming acceitary to the mofl horrid of crimes.
We arrived at Madrafs, where my husband took the name of Homes, not choosing to be thought an Infhman^ in order to give no offence to the inhabitants of the place, who, it seems, have a paritcular dislike to that nation. About ten months after my arrival in India, - I found myself with
child.
f
t 2 02 ]
.child, and was in due time brought to bed of a girl: The next year I had another. The birth of these children gave my husband the Utmost pleasure, and attached him (if possible) still more tenderly to me. On my part, I grew to dislike him less; the absence of my lover, without doubt, contributed greatly to this alteration in my sentiments. I now lived, if not happily, yet content. My children were, as they grew up, instructed in the protestant religion, contrary either to my opinion or consent: But Mr. Homes. Was not to be moved by my entreaties, that at least one of the girls should be
O
allowed to follow the faith of her mother. He taught them carefully their catechism, hearing them say their prayers night and morning; and, in short, forbid me ever talking to them on the subject of religion, on pain of
his
[ 203 ]
his utmost displeasure, threatening even to part with me should I disobey his orders. This manner of proceeding raised my resentment, and weakened the shffeftion which I naturally had for my children. However, when they were about six years old, I prevailed on him to let them be sent to a convent in France for their education, as they could have none where we were *, afiuring him at the same time, that I would not interfere in the affair, but leave him to give what instructions he pleased with regard to the religion, he chose they should be brought up in. Mr. Macallen had a notion, that it was a requisite accomplishment in every woman of any fashion, to speak French elegantly, which was a great inducement to his consenting to his children’s going to France: Besides, he had two sisters wsho were bred up
in
ft
/
[ ]
in convents, and yet continued to be rigid protestants;; that I reaiiy believe, he thought there was less danger of their being perverted in a nunnery than with me. He, however, wrote positive orders to the nuns, that the girls Should preserve their own mode of faith, and not be obliged (on any pretext whatsoever) to attend the service of the church of Rome. This convention, I knew, signified nothing, and was what they neither could or would comply with whatever promises they made. I therefore saw the girls embark for France with pleasure, and felt not the least regret at parting with them. Soon after this event I received a letter from Fletcher, informing me, that at last he had got leave to come to India as a free merchant. My heart bounded with joy at this news. He arrived; when we soon formed a
plan
#
[ 2°5 ]
plan for our meetings. Mr. Homts,
either from the good opinion he had conceived of my conductor from inattention, I know not which, (hewed no curiosity to be informed how I disposed of my time. Thus secure, we grew less careful to conceal our intrigue; when at last I proposed Fletcher's, coming home to me at the hours I knew Mr. Homes would be engaged in business. He did so, and we were not suspected (as I thought) by anybody; when one fatal evening, my gallant being with me, my husband surprised us in a situation which was, not equivocal; he looked with contempt and indignation on us both, and without speaking one word retired. The next day brought me the follow' ' epistle from him.
Madam,
[ 2o6 ]
Madam,
As I find you prefer the fellow t found with you lafi: night, both to your husband and your honour, I beg you would follow him, and your own inclinations to whatever part of the globe you think proper, only leave this country immediately, or J shall be obliged to apply to law in order to force you. I have sent you by the bearer, bills upon England to the amouiitof ten thousand pounds : Yoii brought me six thousand, foi hope you will think the other four good interest for your money. I willi sincerely wifii you happy! but must say, I cannot suppose you ever will be so till you return to virtue, and a just sense of the real injury you have done your friend and humble servant,
P. Homes.'
V This
\
[ 207 ]
This letter, instead of filling ino* with remorse, gave me the most ecstatic pleasure. I communicated its contents to my lover, who was transported at the thought that we were now both rich and free. There were at that time several firips in the port bound for England: We took our passage in one of them, which failed in a few days. During this interval, Mr. Homes behaved in such a manner, that no body suspected what had passed between us; to me, indeed, he never spoke, but before company, nor even saw' me. After my departure, he told everybody that I was gone to see my children *, but I found afterwards that the wretch who had betrayed me to my husband, had not failed of publistiing the adventure to every one who would listen to her. This creature, it seems, had watched my steps and actions for
5 ' some
/
/
■ ^
[ ]
. I
sometime: She was a child, when I bought her, and I confess that I used fornetimes to beat her unmercifully; so that she was probably actuated by revenge (a passion to which the black. Indians are much addicted) to make this discovery. Be that as it may, Fletcher and I returned to England; our hearts elated' with joy, and our pockets full of bills, which we received in specie ifnmediately on our arrival there. I thought it prudent, however, to change my name; I did so, and took his. northeast then made a tour xhvou^ Holland, France, and a part of Italy. Fletcher loved gaiety and expense *, so that I began to suspect, from the manner he lived in, that he must have broke into my capital. I frequently asked him the question, but was always answered in the negative. There was no remedy, as I had been
fool
\
[ 209 1
fool enough to put myself entirely in his power, by giving him the possession of my money without having any security for it, so that it was his own to all intents and purposes. Thus we went on for four years •, when one day (we were then at Leghorn) he told me. with a ghastly look, that he had not. above five pounds left in the world.' How i cried I, out of ten thousand which I brought you! Look you, Madam, he replied, no airs, or I quit you for ever. This menace effectually silenced me for the present.. loved the villain, and my weak heart could not: bear to lose him., What is to be done?
] asked: : is but one way for you; to aft, said he, and that is, to encourage the inclination which Signor Gem melli (he was'a Florentine) seems to ' ■ have for you; he is rich, and m ay keep you from starving, till you can
vol. IIL ' P do
.. > J h
I
[ 210 i
, V
do better for yourself; yoii are still handsome enough (continued he) to get your bread, at least for Some years, and who knows what may happen in ' the interim; your husband may die, or your children: In Short, if you have any luck, you may (for ought I know) be rich again one of these days, and then command me; I cannot starve with you, but I am always ready to live with ydu. I was shocked beyond expression at his impudence, as well as at, the unfeeling manner in which the vile man made me this odious proposal. I rejected it with rage and dis dain. He answered me, without any signs of emotion, “Well, Madam, “Since you don’t approve of my “scheme, I hope you have formed “one of your own, which is more “suitable to your taste.” So saying, he went out. It is impossible for me
to
I
\
r All }
to give any idea of the various paf sions which now took possession of my breast; I cried, stamped, tore my, hair, and, in short, behaved like a mad woman. Fletcher did not come home that day to dinner, at which I was not Surprised, as he left me in such an ill temper. But when night came, and I still heard nothing of him, i began to be alarmed, and Sent Servants different ways to look for him, "When, after Some hours Spent in the iitmoft anxiety and perturbation of spirits, news was brought me that the rnonfter had embarked that morning on board an Englijls vessel bound for London : This was the coup de grace — —
I was petrified with horror at his perfidy; arid now, for the first time, be • to fuipeft, that vice had its thorns as well as its roses. I repented the having betrayed my husband, but too
p2 - " ‘ Mates
[ 212 ]
late; I was lifted under the banners of guilt, and had not fortitude enough to leave her service, though I was fen lible that Ihe was leading me on to de' llruftion. It was now the general topic of conversation at Leghorn., that my husband had left me destitute, and had robbed me of valuables to a vast amount, with many other circumstances equally void of truth; all of which, however, tended to make me the object of universal compassion. The first who offered me his services, was Signor Gemelli; he was old, ugly, and in every respect completely detestable, but he had money, and I had none. Everybody pitied me, and recommended me piously to the care of Providence. Signor gerneui was the only one who proposed taking that office upon himself • was therefore necelfitated to accept of his proposals
\ *
'' •
[ 213 ]
'pofals, - and consequently in less than a week accompanied him to his house.
I did not live long with this man, whose temper was diabolical, but left him for a French Marquis, who took me to Paris. There, by accident, I became acquainted with. an engujh ' Woman of an intriguing head and a bad heart: She was then woman to a Lady of quality. This creature I kept a correspondence with, after her return to England 5. she wrote me, that she had left her mistress, and then
f
lived with Mr. Wilker, whom I knew to be my hushandst correspondent in London. Not to dwell on circumstances, which are of no signification, suffice it, that I was turned off by the Marquis, and passed through various hands, till I at last fell to the lot of
a Dutchman, whose name was Van ^
He came to Paris about bu
P 3 finest,
ft.
/
[ 214 J •
, f \
finefs, and took, me with him to hov land; wjiere he employed me all day. long V in his counting house, as he found I wrote a good hand, and understood figures. I thought this ill treatment; we quarrelled, arid the. boor, without farther ceremony, gave ■.. me twenty guineas, and bid me leave Hs house. 1 was now destitute of friends, nor had I any means of procuring myself bread; Holland being a country where gallantry does not flourish much. I therefore determined to go to England, hoping, that by making myself known to Mr. Wilker, I might get some money of him on my husband's credit; besides, I still loved Fletcher, and wished to see him again.
^ ED
Accordingly I went to London, where I Suffered every degree of wretched hefs which want and misery of all kinds could inflict; for Wilker had
heard.
[ 215 ]
heard my story, and: would not advance me a shilling, by the means of my old acquaintance who lived with him. I found out Fletcher, he was as poor as I, and therefore would have avoided me, but it was impossible, as he was her brother. We now all three entered into a scheme of robbing Wilker; when news came from Jndia that Mr. Homes had remitted large Sums of money to England, and was himself preparing td follow his for' ' as fast as he could. Mrs. jvil mot (for that was the name of Wilkeds maid, wise, or mistress, for I was dubious which of these titles belonged to her, perhaps all in their turns) informed her brother of this news, adding, Mr. Wilker seems very busy upon the occasion, but I See no money or bank bills: “we had, I fancy, better ' y postpone our plot till I can learn
Pa “how
4
• I %
I. ’
4
[ 216 ]
*'• how Homefs riches are to be come “at.” This old Wilker would have Sold his Soul for five pounds. Such’ was his avarice; and the immense riches, •which he found my husband was possessed of, dazzled his senses, and probably determined him from that time to render himself the pofleflbr of them.
- Be that as it may, Mr. Homes arrived in England sooner than Wilker expected him; and ivilker communicated to
• his dear and faithful Wilmot his inten
• tion of poisoning his guest before he could have time to see any of his friends, lest he should make known to them what effects he had brought over with him. This defignwas communicar -- edhywilmot to her brother, and by him to me; on hearing of which I vowed, that unless they would agree to enter into articles with me to perform certain conditions, which I should stipulate,
V
I 217 ]
late, I would warn my husband of bis danger, and have them all taken up.
(This I did, because I remembered
\
how I had been left at Leghorn). Alarmed at this unexpected declaration of mine, they promised to ac quefce to whatever I should think proper to propose. I then made Fletcher give me under his hand, a promise to marry me immediately on Mr. Homes's decease, as also that we three should ■ equally share the plunder, and that my part should be entirely at my own disposal, independent of my future husband.
. being thus amicably fettled, we resolved to get rid of Wilker as Soon he had dispatched Mr. Homes. The next day Wilmot sent me word, that the Gentleman lately arrived frohn Madrafs was just then dead of an apoplexy. He was interred as privately as possible, and Mr. ivilker now took
quiet
m
f
[ 218 ]
quiet pofleltion of his eflefts. Wilmot ■ told us, that his conscience afflicted him dreadfully at times, for he waked
her frequently in the night, with cry
* %
'out, “See there he is, how angry “he looks!” We all agreed that she should augment his terrors as much ^ as possible, by often starting, and pretending to hear odd noises, and See strange Sights, Cfr. and Sometimes to drop in a word or two about the heinous sin of murder. This we did, in, • hopes that he would either die of remorse, or perhaps destroy himself, and and by that means save us the trouble. Wilmot pursued this plan So well, that ' ■ Wilker was almost out of his senses;; a friend of the late Mr. homes’s called on him one morning; they had a long conversation together, and were pretty loud, Wilmot told us, and that not long after the Gentleman was gone,
she
%
/
[ ]
she went to tell Wilker that his dinner was ready, when she found him laying dead on the floor, with his throat cut t'rom ear to ear. At this news, Fletcher and I flew with joy to the house, under pretext of consoling the afflicted widow (for Such she now declared herself to be). Her brother pressed me to marry him directly / ' I suppose, that I should play them a trick, by proving my right to my late hushand’s eflefts, and so leave ' them in the lurch, as he had formerly done me. I had no Such intention but was not in a hurry to be married, as I wished to See the dividend properly Settled first. kie now agreed: carefully and privately to convey to Holland, by small sums at a time, the treasure Mr. Homes had so cruelly been robbed of: And in order that we should not be seen too frequently
together,..
[ 220 ]
together, Fletcher and I lived near St. james’s, whilst Mrs. jvilker remained at her house in the city. Fletcher gave me my jewels one day, which Mr. Homes had brought from Btdia with him, and for which I wrote an acknowledgment, as I possessed them only in part of payment of my share in the plunder: they were valued at ten thousand pounds, foi gave a receipt for that sum. We now began cautiously to transport everything we had of value (except my jewels) abroad, purposing, wheri all was removed, to leave England ourselves, for fear that time and unforefecn events might discover our crimes, and bring us to punishment, when my daughter arrived. This news terrified me; I knew she and her sister were the lawful heirs to their father’s fortune, and as I had already petitioned the di'
'
/
I •
[ 221 ]
rectors of the Eaft india company as the widow of Mr. Macallen, and his only surviving heir, I dreaded her being known for his child, and therefore instrufted Mrs. Wilker and her
I
brother to tell Miss Homes that her father died worth nothing: And above all things I charged them, to prevent her from making any application at the India house. I was determined, however, to secure the girl bread before I left England, and in consequence procured two men of very different ranks and characters to make their proposals to her, which in point of money were really advantageous ones; but she refusing both with disdain, I foresaw that the prejudices of her education were not to be eradicated, and that the subduing of her virtue (if practicable) would take up more time than I had to spare ^ I
resolved
p
e
[ 222 ]
resolved to get her a husband; for which purpose I planned a Scheme with Fletcher of his going to Tork
O O
with her, promising that if he Succeeded I would then marry him, and ■ share with him whatever money I might for the future obtain, as the widow of Mr. Macallen. He durst refuse me nothing, lest (being provoked) I should turn evidence, and so get all the plunder to myself. I told him that I would pay all the expenses which he might be at in this expedition; and then, by the hands of Mrs. jvilker, lent the girl my diamonds to show away in, not doubting but Fletcher, for his own sake, would 'take care they were returned to me. She, however, proved too cunning for him, and went off with the jewels, .which he well knew we durst not reclaim. On his return to
town,
[ 223 ]
town, he ■ related to me the circumstances of this affair, and showed me a letter from Jenny, directed as had been agreed upon between them in another name, inquiring after her pretended father Mr. Homes: he answered it as clerk to the person it was addressed to. In short, chagrined, I suppose, that ten thousand pounds had thus escaped him, he determined to secure the rest, for which reason he and his lister went off together, leaving me to shift as I could. Fortunately I had by me bills on the bank for upwards of two thousand pounds, which, in their hurry to be gone, they had probably forgot,. or elfe perhaps they would not have left them behind. I now reviewed my past conduct w ith detestation and horror, and owned the justice of Providence in having deprived me of that
wealth
/
y
i
. *
I
[ 224 ]
■wealth which I had attained by the death of my husband, and perhaps the ruin of my child; for I could not hope, that a man who had been So infamously imposed upon as Mr. Hackit was, would ever make Jenny a good husband. Heaven, in pity to' her innocence, has turned the instruments intended for her destruction, into the means of procuring her (in all probability) a lasting happiness. On hearing from a woman of my acquaintance, at whose house Mr. and.. Mrs. Hackit lodged in town, that they were happy in each other, I put an advertisement into the papers, hoping by that means to become acquainted with my children; determining at the Same time to do all in my power to render them service, as a Small atonement for the evils I had brought on, ‘ them. I have been happy enough to
prove
L
[ 225 ]
prove the identity of my child, as. well as to have procured some lights into the state of her late father’s affairs, whose papers, were most of them in shy hands, having taken them from Mrs. jvilker, who feared their being found in her possession. But guilt has broke my spirits, remorse devours my health, and I feel that I must soon resign my being into the hands of Him, who doubtless gave it me for better purposes than I have put it to But let it be observed, that no hell hereafter can give more excruciating pains than those I have continually felt in my heart, flnce my deviation from virtue: peace fled my breast with her, and if the delirium of my senses silenced the stings of conscience for sometime, yet wheh it did speak, it only wounded deeper for that Short respite, I hope therefore, vol. Ill, O that
[ 226 ]
that my past sufferings, and my present contrition, for the wickedness of " my life, will plead for pardon at the throne of mercy.”
Here ended the narration, which,
, after having heard read, she joined with the parson in most fervent prayers to the Almighty, for forgiveness of her enormous crimes, and died a few hours afterwards; a poor amends,
I fear, for such a life. — Here is a story for you, my dear! I am tired to death with writing of it, so God. bless you. Yours,
Bath. J, Tatton.
4
P. S. Mrs. Hackit is better. Her
husband tells me, that his sister
/
and her mate sought, so Mr. Lewis has parted them. Young Hackit has fettled one hundred pounds a year upon her,
I and
■
C 22/ ]
and boards her at a clergyman’s, a great distance from Ivy Cafile.
Her temper, I find, is intolerable; the two hundred pounds her brother sent her, he has consented that her husband shall keep. Adieu.
Lady Malcom to Lady Tatton at
Brumpton Park.
SO, you left Bath, crossed the country, and never called upon your friends in London *, but I must not scold you, since I find Lady Plumfiead has been so dangerously ill;
I most sincerely rejoice with you on her recovery. How many million of thanks do I owe you, my dear sister, for Mrs. macalled.s history What an abandoned vile woman! but She met with her punishment in this
(0 2 world,
ft
I
[ 228 ]
world, I think, foi hope Ihe will be pardoned in the next, though, if I was in her place, I should be ver)' doubtful on the point.
Julia and her lover arc arrived: No joy sure ever equalled that which this amiable family experienced on meeting again after so cruel a separation. Old Boothby forgets the seventy of those maxims, he has hitherto so invariably adhered to, whilst lie contemplates Julia and henry’s excess of fondness for each other: For my part, I gaze with inexpref sible joy on the lovers, till my very eyes ache, so delighted am I to see them thus happy. Julia has waited upon the Chancellor, accompanied by Harry; what she said to his lord ship I know not, but I know her eloquence, and then the subject— — inspiring! She would not tell us
what
. 1-
W",
[ 229 1
what passed, but she looked cheerful on her return home, by which we conjecture that she did not meet with an absolute denial.
So far I had wrote, my dear Jenny, when I was seized with a giddiness in my head, which was followed by a fever, occasioned (I really believe) from too much joy on feeing my friend Julia again. I have been confined to my room for these Six weeks past. My Lord Malcom's affliction on the occasion (though he endeavoured to hide it) contributed. greatly to the increase of my difor order *, I could not bear to see him uneasy. However, thank God, I arn now perfectly well, and he is happy.
I suppose you have heard, that George Boothhy is dead; but perhaps you may not have learned the particulars, which were as follows.
After
[ 230 ]
'N
, /
After having obtained his liberty, which was on Julia and his brother’s arrival in England, he went towards the South of France, for the benefit. of his health, which, it seems, was much impaired by disappointment, and a prison. He was not naturally, you know, of the most gentle disposition, and his crimes (I won’t call them misfortunes) upon refieftion had not contributed much to the smoothing of his temper; so that going into a cofiee house one day at Bordeaux, he heard a French officer talking of the engujh nation, as a people, who, .though they enjoyed every blessing under heaven,, yet were for ever forming factions, and always ■ discontent. George, who was in a
humour to have quarrelled with his »
shadow, told the young Gentleman, that the engujh knew how to beat, as
well
ft
».
7
[ 231 ]
well as to laugh at, all the puppies like himself, of his nation; adding, “France experienced this truth suffi“ “I think, in the last war.” This officer happened to be at rouen when george’s being put into confinement there, and the cause of if, made such a noise in the town; and the Gentleman had even seen him in gaol, and now knew him again : He therefore answered with rriuch spirit, that he did not dispute the bravery of the engujh, but that if, in the late war, his countrymen had only met with such villains as he was to have opposed them, victory would indubitably have changed fides, since scoundrels were never known to be brave. This fired George) (as indeed it would have done any man); he desired to have an explanation of the words, villain and scoundrel. Upon which,
by
[• 232 ]
by way of reply, the officer related the story of him and Julia to the whole cornpany, who were all of opinion, that the perpetrator of such a piece of cruelty and injustice, to a young Lady of character, birth, and fortune, and his father’s ward too, merited the gallows. George quitted the coffee room, in what temper I leave you to imagine; and the next morning Sent a challenge to the officer, who accepted it. They sought, and George was killed on the Spot. I am not Sorry for his death, he deserved it; besides, I should always have lived in terror, lest he Should have done either Julia or his brother Some mischief. Add to this consideration, that his decease has been of singular Service to, my friend, for now Harry being Sole heir to his father’s estate, the Chancellor has given his
'o
consent to the match. Mr, Boothhy
infills
[ m ]
infills ■ that the ceremony shall not be deferred on account of george’s death, saying, he was no relation of his : However, Mrs. Boothhy feels he was, and on her account they will postpone their nuptials for a short time; and then this deserving and ' amiable pair are to be united, with the approbation of all their friends. julia’s fine seat in Northamptonjh'ire is sitting up ' upon the occasion;; tenants (who have seen none of the family since her father’s death) are, Mr. Boothhy tells us, almost distracted with joy at the thoughts of soon feeing their young' Lady. Harry is to be made a peer, by the name of Earl of Wandsworth, the title of julia’s grandfather, my dear; and, in short, jby and .magnificence are now our continual themes in South Audiey jireet. Augujius and I have prornifed to accompany the bride and bridegroom to their coun, vol. III R try
— 4
r 234 ] ^
try seat. My Lord appears to me to have as warm a friendship for young Boothby, as I have for jn lia; so we shall make a charming party quarre to Bolton Park. Do make it in your way to town, we shall all rejoice to see you and Ned, they ali bid me tell you so; so come away to your friends, and affectionate sister,
arlington ftreet. L Malcom.
Mrs. Henry Boothby to Mrs.
Merton.
O M E, my dearest Louisa, come to Bolton Park, in order to contemplate the happiness of those who, are nearest and dearest to you; bring your husband and sweet babe along with you. Your father and mother (from whom we are determined never to separate ourselves for the future) grow young again, from the happiness
\
ns ]
ness of their children. Lord and Lady Malcom seem delighted with their present situation; let this cir cumllance encourage you to add to our felicity by your presence; we will all return with you to town in the winter, as we have promised my father to make use of his house in London, on condition that he and my mother will promise to reside with us the rest of the year in the country.
How grateful, my dear Louisa, is, my full heart to Providence, who has thus kindly put it in my power to show my gratitude to my worthy guardians, by my tender care of their age, for that parental kindness they treated me with during my infancy; it shall be the study of my future days to render the remnant of their precious lives happy. My Harry will join his endeavours to mine in this pleasing
talk.
■ [ 236 ]
task. Let me repeat my entreaties, Louisa.. you, Mr. Merton, and my godson, would pay us a visit this autumn; your brother insists upon it, your father commands it. Lady Malcom. petitions it. "What can I say more ?• excepting that I am, with the utmost impatience to see you, my dear, Mrs; merton’s ever, sincere friend and affectionate filler,
. Bolton Park. Julia Boothby.
I ■ C '
/
FINIS.
. : T.;.;. ■ ■. -■..,
• *
.A
/. i
ft » ^ ‘
I
* >
I
f '
