GOXHEATH camp :
A
N O V E L
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS;
N
BY A LAD Y.
in; two volumes. ic
V O L I..
- /■
L -
p ^
7
D U B L I N :
POINTED FOR Messrs. Price, Whitestoice, Wilkincoi^. Williams, M'alker, E. Cross, Jenkin, Sleater^
Mon cri esse, W, Wilson, Burnett, Porter Exshaw, Beatty Burton, Higley^ and B. Watson m.2»oc.lxxix.
•** ' V..
V
/
>
iqc
r
T O
THE LADIES,
BOTH NOBILITY AND COMMONERS,
WHO,
DURING THE LATE CAMPAIGN,
DISDAINED NOT TO SHARE, IN ORDER TO SOFTE] THE INCONVENIENCES OF THEIR HUSBANDS’ SITUATION,
THE FOLLOWING LITTLE
PERFORMANCE
IS MOST HUMBLY DEDICATED;
NOT ON INTERESTED MOTIVES,
BUT MERELY AS A TOKEN OF THAT ADMIRATIO! EVERY BRITON MUST FEEL OF CONDUCT SO TRULY COMPATIBLE WITH CONJUGAL FAITH AND CONJUGAL AFFECTION.
A CONDUCT,
IN A MOST PARTICULAR MANNER, RESPECTED AND ADMIRED
B Y,
#
LADIES,
YOUR MOST OBEDIENT,
HUMBLE SERVANT,
THE AUTHOR
S
V), - ^. ._
s

s
C O X H EAT H :

/
«
s
LETTER I.
Mi LDM A Y ha LL,
Heaven fi’t taught Letters for Some wretch’s Aid', Some banish’d Lover, or Some captive Maid.
— And what a chasra, my dear madam, at certain periods would there be in the Annals of s^riendship, unasliited by that divine, that de: liffhtful invention?
; I, FOR example, who have long loved you as; well as my Sitter can do, and am more intimately
j acquainted with you in a six days than she in a six
: months visit, must have languished to hear of
I your welfare, your amusements, your every interesting, your every entertaining occurrence; at the Same time that 1 had born with impatience T my own exclusion from the poshbiiity of commu * t, nicating the changes and chances in a life, yotl L have done me the honour to asi'ure me will be ever more dear to you.
B Dear
C
6 C O X H E A T H :
Dear to you! — By what tie, what cement? • — Merely the liberality of your heart, and the benevolence of your temper? — Forbid it. Heaven! Forbid it. Love? — A little miracle as to the article of wealth will, I trust. Soon be wrought in ferdinand’s favour; — stnce wealth is univerlal jy allowed to be the only requisite with held from him, for making the marriage state completely happy; — and then, let the old ones or the wise ones Say what they may, you shall be my lister as well as my friend; — and we will challenge the Globe to produce Such another blested Trio.
I MUST, however, confess, that to bend the will to the will of a parent, is a beautiful Sample of mental excellence in a young woman. — The youthful fancy will have its wanderings, and too frequently, perhaps, draw the youthful affections into embarrasthients; but it is headlong inclination alone that is found irrestrainable; and, overturning both reason and conscience in its course, pushes on the Sairest individuals to the foulest deeds — to the wounding of nature, and the violation of delicacy. — You are, thank Providence, a being of a Superior order to this Species of females; — and will either reconcile your duty and your love, or keep them in a state of honourable Separation.
Apropos of Letters! — I never can touch on the Subject without reviving my quarrel with my otherwise favourite Poet, for his prostitution of So invaluable a medium of Social and affectionate intercourse.
To waft a ssgh from Indus to the Pole may be innocently wished, and no less innocently effected; — but that a young damsel can Spare her blushes by committing'to paper for her lover’s perusal what would be unfit for a young damsel to utter,
is
A N O V E L 7
is a tenet of So extraordinary a complexion, that I wish the propagator had been pleased to instrudb us what to do with our consciousness; on the succeeding rencounter with a man who had thus received a likeness of us from our own pencil., we must have blushed to present him with a tete-a-tete. But it is a piece of masculine logic, equally unintelligible and repugnant to an elegant female mind; for an elegant female mind is incapable of departing from the dignity of femini7iity on any occasion, and knows but one language, the language of Purity — vulgarly called Prudence.
How unlucky it is that the Counties of our residence should be at the extremities of the Kingdom! — I have, however, as little to Sigh for III Kent, except the pleasure of your company, as you in Somersetshire. — mildmay hall is most agreeably Situated between Rochester and Maidstone, and in a genteel neighbourhood. It is, moreover, distant from Cosheath, where it is reported an encampment will Soon be formed, from its vicinity to the coast, only eight miles; — a morning’s airing. — Who then will be better enabled to remit you the news, the bustlings of the Scene, than your humble Servant? — Nay, provided you appear sensible of the value of Such a Correspondent, it is not improbable but I may dip my pen in Scandal for your entertainment; wade through all the envy, malice, and uncharitableness, which is at once the origin and fuel of that fashionable device for pashng away the time, and filling up the pauses, as it were, of existence; — a device grown into So great repute with the present generation, that it constitutes the season ing, the high gout, not only of polite conversation, but polite literature : A certain proof, alas! of the false taste and fatal degeneracy of man
B a
€ C O X H E A T H :
Ners which prevails in the land, to the extinqiort of all the illustrious virtues of our ancestors, and the dishonour of the British name.
I am, my beloved Girl,
..Ml.
Your affectionate,
Eleanora, or,
[IS you like it better, ]
S Ella Rivers.
.^
LETTER II
\.
Mildmay hall.
O^OXHEATH, my dear madam, is actually marked downi for martial encampments, if not for martial prowess;; — Mrs. Mildmay laments the busy Scenes that will be opened upon this part of the country : — but I leave you, who are well acquainted with the vivacity of my temper, to judge how disserently I am asfedted by a confirmation of the glad tidings: — in a word, I consider it as the era of our animation.
A SOLDIER, if he happens to be a pretty fellow, hasa thousand advantages over the rest of his Sex. He is a gentleman, which is an infallible passport for him into the best company. He is a hero; — a hero who., perhaps, will soon be called upon to take the field in defence of the very circle he So agreeably entertains with his chitchat : — he is therefore beheld with a mixture of approbation and gratitude by all his acquaintance.
A N O V E L 9
t
1
ance. Nay more : from connecting the remembrance
of his dangers with the dangerous Services he is about to engage in, he is perfectly adored by the women, who tremble, yet exult in the idea, that the man who So becomingly lays his heart at their feet, is ready to rush into all the perils of war for their preservation; and hence it is that Soldiers are in general So Successful, wherever they pay their devoirs.
Ah me! — I am, nevertheless, prohibited by the gentle, yet Solemn because dying, request of my Mother, to think of a Soldier.
She, poor woman 1 loved, and was beloved by a Military Character; — and by sharing the fatigues, the distrestes of his profeshon, could prpnounce decisively on its incompatibility with human'happiness.
My 1 atber is, I will not say the ruins, but, the remains of a very handsome fellow. The air of his Gountenance is Grecian — - his hair auburn
• j J ',
his eye, s the bright blue of the heavens — his mouth well formed, and, in every Sense of, the word, \veil furnished; — and Such the expression of the tout enfemhle^ that I can anticipate, if not the very terms, the very Sentiment he is going to utter before they sail from his lips; — add to all which, he is tall, and looks the hero.
His only fortune, however, was a subalterns Commishon in a Marching Regiment; — andi though your Lovers are above taking So vulgar an article into their account of conjugal happi hess, it is unfortunately as necessary to our existence, both married and stngle, that we should eat, as that we should breathe.
My mother, at the age of susceptibility I have, attained, had a mind Soft as infant dreams, and as .disinterested and credulous as it was tender. Her,. 4 B 3 Lover
TO C o X H E A T H i
/
Lover, poor ini'atuated man! gave the colourings of Arcadia to his descriptions of the felicity resulting from mufual affection and an union of hearts. No wonder, then, that to live for and with each other, was the object that daxzled theif reason, and gave them courage to launch on the •wide ocean of the World, unapprehenssve of every worldly consequence.
The pride of my father’s family was wounded by his alliance whth an amiable, though romantic young woman, who renounced the most Battering pecuniary prospedts for his sake, ■ — the favour of an uncle, who, in order effectually to punish her, married, and has now a whole house full of brats to inherit his treasures : He has, however, a termagant wife — is miserable — and 1 am contented.
Worldly want, my dear madam, when it cannot distolve, embitters a tender attachment. — Every inconvenience my father felt, was more than doubled in my mother’s feelings. She wept his unrewarded virtue — his unavailing heroism; and, accompanying him to America about nine years ago, bad adieu to what she called an insen * Sible and ungrateful Land, because Such merit as her Husband possessed was left exposed to the chilling blasts of Poverty, and Suffered to wither in obscurity.
Y ET, between ourselves though this honest pair could not command all their hearts might wish, they had no Small obligations to Providence,
Mrs. Mildmay, the wife of a rich Planter, with whom my father had formed an intimacy when stationed in the days of his youth at Jamaica, happened to be in England at my birth,, and entreated permission to be my god mother. In the articles of protection and provision, I have,
indeed
A N O V E L II
indeed, Scarcely known another parent; for she generously undertook the care of my education, c. in like manner as your father had done of ferdinand’s, on a Similar principle, three years before.
Two children, out of three, thus amply provided for, gave them, no doubt, the highest fa tisfadfion; — whilst the Sweet Penferofo the third followed them all the world over; and if dutiful affection, tender attention, in a word, every filial, every Soft endowment could delight the parental heart, her parents had unspeakable delight, in her attendance upon them. — At length she, was called upon to close my dear mother’s eyes, ’ who, as I have already mentioned, made it her dying request, that neither of her daughters should wed with redcoats.
Here I can conceive was deep, was Substantial distress for the poor warrior : — - He lost his friend, his Companion, his everything that was worth preserving, except his child, who held him on the argument of lifey no less from gratitude than paternal fondness. She had become a voluntary exile to accompany him, and as voluntarily exposed herself to all the dangers of an untried climate, and the devastations of hostile Scenes.
■ — He looked on his departed wife, then on his weeping girl; and recolle6ting how much she would have to fear from her Sex, and unprotected condition,, ifi he was no more, piousty resolv ed to shbmi'f himself to the will of Heaven in the double duties of resignation, and care of his osf spring; — a recollection to which I verily believe I am indebted for the prolonged existence of my only parent.
But, with all my sister’s goodness, I cannot help fuspedting Some American Swain has got
B 4 her
‘ V
12 C O X H E A T H :
>
her by the heartstrings, the memory of whom contributes essentially to give those pensive traces to her countenance. — May the day not be far distant, that will render her as completely happy as She deserves to be 1 — Can I bless her more?
• If these family anecdotes, which I have in fensibly fallen upon, are familiar to you, pardon the repetition, — I lose my vivacity; — it is not therefore extraordinary I should lose my remembrance, when they come across me. — But I have a notion that my sister’s nerves are too tenderly strung to trust herself on the Subject, and that my brother is still less inclined than her to entertain you with melancholy stories. — Be it as it may, however, I will wdnd up my account, if ■ postible, for ever, with adding, that on Mr., mildmay’s death, and my father and mother’s embarkation for the Western World, I was removed from School, and have from that time to this had no other check on the wildness of my imagination than my gratitude to my dear, my bountiful benefadlress, to whose bestowing hand I ewe all I am, and from which I shall derive all I hope to be. And it is my pride and glory, that she has Seldom had occasion to contradict me; — for I read her wishes in her looks, and most reli giousty, to the utmost of my power, fulfil them.
But take notice, Mrs., Mildmay is no enemy to redcoats, though abjured by my poor m, o §1 there in the conclusion of her days she does not therefore discourage me from admiring the martial address, martial mien, or martial character: :
'— on casting up the pain of Separations ■ — though duly contrasted with the joy of re uni €»ns, the hazards of the field, loss of an eye, an arm, the life of the man we love — I execrate mi itiiry enthusiasm; deplore that the cockade and
regimentals.
A N O V E L 13
regimentals, which give Such graces to the person, can alone be purchased at So high a price; and am resolved to Shut the door of rny heart, if I feel m)self inclined to admit only a Hero to postess it; and the maternal injundtion shall prove its invincible barricade.
I HOPE to hear from you soon.
And am, cella
Riversl
V
■ I I "Il < 11 iff, 'll I'l'hl'h'i'' '1 !>■
i
%
L E T T E R III
what’s life without passion,,
passion of love!
A CAMP, ray dear madam, like a masquerade, levels all distindtion : — General Officers ^ and Cadets, duchesses and demoiselles, are alike exposed to the shafts of beauty, are alike susceptible of the tender pasiion.i
We read it from the pen of Sterne, that the' whole city of Abdera was put into commotion by the representation of a piece which. declared Cupid to be the Prince of Gods and Men — and. that wheresoever you met an Abderan, male or female, gentle or Simple,, " Cupid, Prince of Gods and Men," was the Stanza vibrating on their lips, at the Same time that their hearts bore testimony to the justice of the titlci.
What, the people of Abdera experienced hi thair day, the whole County of Kent how expe
B. S riences t
14 C O X H A T H :
riences; — and " Cupid, Prince of Gods and Men, ’^ is as universally Sung, though under another name; — for to captivate and be captivated is the Secret purpose, — the Secret desire of every heart. To this end the Jeunejfes of each Sex shake out their feathers, call up their best looks, and read the public prints with avidity; for in the public prints, the military resolutions and military motions are announced; and it is through that channel they will obtain the important information, when the Camp raree show will commence : and Such is the force of example, that if the expefled beaux were not Soldiers, I myself should be for trying the strength of my artillery on their affections. — And So much at present for the camp infiuenza.
Mrs. Mildmay is now only five and thirty, though pretty far advanced in the"ninth year of her widowhood. — She cannot with propriety be styled a Beauty, but is the first-rate of the agree ables, and mistress of a fine fortune. — Should she — But under all circumstances, and in all conditions, Mrs. Mildmay will be herself; — nor will I torture my imagination with bugbears. — Almost nine years, I repeat it, this moult liberal minded and engaging of women has been a widow, without distinguishing one male creature above another, except in the article of friendship; where my poor father, I affure you, has i^the apparent, the envied preheminence.
What different Charadfers do we meet with 1 “" in the masculine World J — Some men construe I civilities into invitations, most men resolve friend snips into love.
My dear, modest father Sees nothing but generous condescension and generous amity in all Mrs. mildmay’s condufit towards him; — yet, as Jae knows Life and Mankind with a delicacy, I
had
A NOV E L 15
had almost Said, peculiar to himself, he declines her most prelling invitations to make her house his home; and whatever private self-denial he may endure, visits her cautiousty, addresses her reverently, and'mentions her timidly, lest the busy, tailing Multitude Should wound So uncommon a friend and benefadtrefs, by imputing the tendrejfe of an old acquaintance, and the esfustons of gratitude, for benefits received in the perlon of his little girl, to love.
I MUCH Sear, however, was I my father, I should be tempted just to Satisfy myself, whether it was wijjoed I should move within So strict a line. — Our Sex, my dear, are miserably circumscribed in this particular. — We must not break the ice; and a man of nicety will not, where the disparity of fortune is So glaring on his fide, that the moult disinterested passion must be liable to misconception. How you and my brother managed this point, you and my brother best know — but I verily believe. So rigid is my father’s virtue, that be would refuse the offer of this lady’s person, because the immediate key to her wealth; — and in order to preserve his honour; misullied, Supposing an union with him essential. to her happiness, would wound his humanity, -, by • leaving her a prey to a hopeless passion..
But I should tell you, all this is the mere wantonness of my own imagination, and the con -- sciousness of my own infirmities; — for So absolutely am I under the dominion of Cupid,., Pr ince of Gods and Men," that I consider acr quaintance only as a first step to' approbation — approbation to friendship — and friendship to love; ■ — nay, admit the succesiion to be natural, to be irresistible, where there happens toshe no moral impediments,, as in my father and Mrs. Mild
mav
J
i6 C O X H E A T.D :
>
may s cafe; though when I shall be called to Speak experimentally on the Subject, I am unable to conjecture.
Y ou, my Sweet girl, I am persuaded, would not condemn either the lady’s taste or the lady’s conduq", if she was even weak enough to make the choice I have hinted at; as my brother, when we have Said our best of him, is only Second to his father in person, and every gentlemanly accomplishment. — Flis youth, — his youth, madam, is a mere feather in the Scale, when it is remembered, men in general gain as much as women lose, by getting on the wrong Side of thirty, in dignity of form, and gracefulness of complexion; as a proof of which I need but refer ' ou to the annals of Mythology, — where you will find ulystes was admired by Calypso and the other Nymphs of antiquity, as much as his Son could postibly be; — or rather, that telema chus’s chief charms, in their eyes, was his striking resemblance of their beloved hero, his father.
Do, I beseech you. Since Love is So near becoming the universal passion, consequently the universal topic, endeavour to unlock my demure
lister’s lips. -- Make her either confess herself
human, or prove her claim to divinity. But I am much mistaken, if she does not hide an aching heart behind her terenely pensive countenance; and, though not So frolicksome, has all the weaknesses of your ella’s composition.
When Ferdinand ascends the pulpit for the first time, how shall I wish to be one of his auditors I — he should have been christened Lionel and you Clarissa, there is Such a Similitude in your circumstances and Situations; tho’
pardon
  17
pardon me if I say, nothing but new making Sir Ferdinand could render him a Sir John slow erda'le, except in the articio of being blind to the tender attachment which lubsists between you. — Yet Safe as you may be in that quarter, beware, my dear girl, of a discovery that must involve both your lover and yourself in unending distress. My father’s discernment is accute, his notions delicate, and his resolution firm. ' Not the eye of the bastiisk would be more fatal to your life, than his penetrating eye to your pashon. A thousand alarming consequences I'ur* • round you; therefore I once more conjure you be on your guard, and let not my warning voice ' be upraised in vain.
I am,
0.
I
With every friendly wish
if
for your happiness, cc.
^ ft

Ella riversi'
<
LET
18 C O X H E A T H :
LETTER IV
F
JL HE evil you apprehended is come to pass, and I am roused, most fatally roused from my fairy dream of happiness. — Your father, Sister, brother, have taken their final leave of Sommerletshire. Their last adieus still vibrate on my ear, my heart. But my loss will be your gain. To your filter (from whom you will receive an early visit) I, however, refer you for particulars. — I am unable to write you; yet one thing I must myself tell you, for she cannot.
Your father, no less undefignedly than unexpectedly, having walked into a parlour where your brother and I were talking over our hopes and our fears, instantly entered into the meaning of our tete-a-tete, and thus addressed us :
'‘ferdinand, have I a Son ?" — The poor fellow trembled, bowed, and was Silent. — " Retire then to my chamber, and there prepare " yourself to receive my farther comrnands^. " Your mother’s death was the will of Heaven; " as Such, I Survived it: but if you love her " memory or my life, beware how my honour " dies by your hand." — He withdrew without reply.
Then turning to me : ** You have no incon “venience, madam, to apprehend from this fortunate discovery. I will depart from your family without disturbing its repose. The orders I have just received to join my regiment, enables me to remove myself plausibly. But my removal of “my Son will expose me, I am well aware, to
Sir ferdinand’s displeasure and the charge of
ingra
  19
** ingratitude : I leave my fame, therefore, in " your hands; 'with this request, that you will never restore its bright polish at the expense of your own peace, or, what 1 know to be equally dear to you, your father’s. Let me be believed for a time, the charadteir I abhor, an ungrateful man : It will be Soon enough to do. me " justice when you do justice to yourself, by " making a choice more worthy your fine sense ** high expectations. I pity Ferdinand; for I have not forgot how irresistible So amiable an ** object must be to the youthful heart, and will " be everything a fond parent can be to him, to " mitigate the pangs his Sensibility will Sustain : " but it is a glorious conflict, and I trust he will be all the hero. Farewell I and remember I am ** cruel only to be kind. My life should be yours, " but my honour is not mine to bestow; nay, the " forfeiture of it would disgrace you no less than ** myself, as a very little reflection will convince " you; nor can you deny me your esteem, though I thus make a Sacrifice of the pleasure" " your acquaintance." — He left me, Ella, with a look of tender compassion that rived my soul, — and— — I can only add, that I am more than ever
Yours, cc.
Caroline Fletcher."
h E T.
.J
20 C O X H E A T H;;
. \

L E T T E R V
Rochester.
It is my deltiny, madam, and I Submit without repining. The Softer Scenes of Life, I own, have peculiar, charms for me, and I am more than ever unfitted, by the Sweet tranquillity I have for these pait six months enjoyed under your roof, for my present Situation. But can I wisli to be excused lulfillingthe first and dearest of all duties — following, nay, I flatter myself, mitigating the fortune of a most beloved and indulgent father? There is the balm for every wound my inclinations, may Sustain; and I will be, what for his Sake I ought to be, a little heroine, not a discontented Campaigner.
Your observation, that it is now too late in the day for my father to take the field as a Subaltern, proceeds from the natural liberality of your Sentiments. The man, my good madam, who engages in a military life with nothing but his own merit to depend upon, has Small chance for promotion. The dangers of an enterprise he must participate, but the glory is placed to the commander’s acdount alone; unless, indeed, he happes to possess the happy talent of fawning and flattering, which are the only certain steps to Savour in those public walks; where the report of the Superior, made up of the reports of the superior’s friends is the criterion of worth, and the key to advancement.~but this is a gloomy subject, and I will pursue it no farther.
My brother, poor youth! begins to be more patient under his difappointraents than 1 could
have
  21
have hoped I tell him being in love becomes him; for, at every mention of your name, his cheek. glows with a manly, t would not choose to Say a beautishd lint; and if there is truth in inspiration. his martial manoeuvres will not disgrace his, passion.,
Yet though I deny it to him, I will confess to you, it was pity to tear him from the pious election he had made and compel him to Serve his king.instead of his God. It was, nevertheless, in character for a brave andhonest man 0© alas my father has done. The daughter of his benefactor might, unssnning, honour his child with the ten derest partiality; though it would have been criminal, alas! for that child to make other return to Such condescension— — flying — to prove himself not utterly unworthy of it.
You lament, I will be bold enough vto say unduly. Sir ferdinand’s turn of temper. Any other man’s daughter and my brother, with all his imperfections on his head, would have been deemed by him not only an eligible, but a judicious choice; though his opinion would be totally changed, if the cafe was his own. For who, let me ask you, bestows a darling child, exqui sitely accomplished, and mistress of a Splendid fortune, on a poor young fellow, let his other endowments be what they may? or, indeed, on what motive could Such romantic conduct be expected, unless it was the fashion of the times to confider poverty as the only Security for moral rectitude, and that riches and goodness of heart could be proved incompatible things? As a mark of his Sincerity towards'us, was he not always giving us same by bearing testimony to the wealth and good blood of our ancestors, and Setting his friends an example of generous approbation, where our
0v/3
44 GOXHEATH:
own little merits were the question? To have hoped for’ more at his hands, would have been the height of madness, ingratitude, and folly. From the above premises I therefore, for my part; not only acquit — I justify his Sentiments, and, until Ferdinand attains to the dignity of a trunchon, shall never think him intitled'to aspire to the honour of his alliance. — And So much for the tender passion.
The farther from Jupiter, Says the proverb, the farther from the thunder; — I therefore congratulate myself that the humility of my circumstances will exclude me from all intercourse with our great Commander. condesceston, madam, never Sat on Such a brow : his look is hostile — and his voice tremendous. No doubt, nevertheless, but he can unbend in proper company; and there may be virtue in keeping the lower ranks in awe.
My dear father sighed involuntarily at break fast this morning, and my eye Spoke my destre to know the cause. A youth fit only to figure away on the Parade in St. jame’s Park, or make a brilliant appearance at a Review, was appointed his immediate Superior. — Oh how did every wound he has received in the Service of his Country, bleed afresh in my immagination at the tidings! — But I have learned to wonder in Silence at the wrongs I have not the power to redress; and it is not in this world, I am now more than ever convinced my revered relation will meet with his reward.
My Sister and the most benevolent of women have made us a visit, and, it Seems, flatter themselves they shall be able to Soften the poor lieutenant’s destiny by their attentions; but his nice Sensibility, I can perceive, is rather hurt than gratified by every increased obligation Mrs. mild may confers upon him; — nor will he be persuaded
to
A N O V E L 2j
to extend on Interview with her beyond the limits common complaisance demands. There is Some hidden cause for this mode of behaviour, which I am unable to penetrate. Great minds have not disdained in numberless instances to owe benefits to great minds; and who will deny Mrs. mild may^s claim to that distinction? Moreover, in my humble opinion, her engaging vivacity and elegant familiarity are entitled to a far different return, unless reservecan be admitted as essential a quality in a Soldier as in a Philosopher.
Ella will write you all the news of our arrival at this Same city of Rochester, from whence we are to proceed to the Heath. — It is htv forte % and I Should deprive her of a very particular pleasure, if I was to take the lead of her on that ground; I shall therefore only add, that Ferdinand intreats me to say the most respeqfui things for him. — Your imagination, however, can alone do justice to his feelings, — to which I must refer
And am.
Dear Madam,
Your haost obliged Hurnble Servant,
Lydia Rivers, ’
. \
^ •
over,
•» > V - ^
54 1* C O X H E A T H :
'' '
LETTER VI!
mildmay hall,
Now we’re free to Sing and play;
Over the hills and far away.
TT ■
X HE gentle Lydia tells me the field is all open before me, for that not one description has fallen from her pen of the Scenes she is now cast in. 'Quelle trijiejfe Kquelle infenjiblef — But the truth is, from the constitutional difference in our tern
r
pers, i contrive to gather all the roses,, all the thorns of existence.
Mrs. Mildmay and myself arrived early this morning at Rochester, and were much enter entertained by the coming in of the troops and baggage wagons, until, on the Stopping of one of them just under the window at which we stood,, we perceived a young and really elegant appearing woman in the last struggles of nature. We rang the bell, besought the people to give sher the best and most Speedy help they could obtain, and promised to answer every consetluential expense.
She was taken down from the wagon in the gentlest manner possible by a fellow whole countenance bespoke his warm interest in her Safety, and who Seated her in a chair in the open air. A Surgeon, whose ready attendance did honour to his humanity, bled her; whilst the young recruit, Sora recruit we descovered him to be by his cock ade, hung over with tender anxiety. Such a face at Such a' moment, would not have disgraced the
ratified b pencil
.• \
 , 6s
pencil of a Guido I — She opened her, I dare be f iieve once fine, eyes — fixed them upon his — sighed— — at articulation — feebly pressed his hand — and — expired. ’ we paid her, all humble as her Situation was, the tribute of a tear; — • ordered her to be conveyed to a house, we bribed to admit her body till it could be put in the ground; — — and Soothed the desponding youth, who accused himself as the author of her untimely fate. — It was fatigue — it was want of proper Subsistence that had hastened her dissolution— — was her ffears that he would be Sent abroad — in fine, it was love. We gave him a couple of guineas, and he retired in disconsolation, having first obtained leave to walk over from the Camp to See her buried; in which request he was unwillingly indulged, as it, was considered only a renewal of his Sorrow. — But ' he burst into tears at the hesitation — Said he would bury all his Sorrows in the grave with her, and return to his duty tike a man; — then hiding his eyes with his hands, 'h^witlidrew to give vent to his apparently overcharged heart. — Tell me then, my Sweet Caroline, is not Cupid the Sovereign prince of at least this lower world?
We had Scarcely got over this little incident, than an alarm wa Spread, that a poor woman in another of the wagons was in labour, and unless removed must be lost.
Mrs. Mildmay, or the Goddess of Benevolence under her form, (for you must know I often suspect file must be that Divinity) stew again to the window, and holding a purse in her hand, was understood to wish every neceslry should be done for the poor wretch’s accommodation, who, it Seems, run all hazards rather than be left behind the man she loved. The bufiness was Soon
over, '
i
26 C O X H E A T H :
over, the birth of a fine boy announced, and > Mrs. Mildmay Sent word she would Stand godmother, if a Substitute could be provided; So that I look upon it, it will prove a babe of grace, by being born under suchtortunate auspices— — have I not found her a parent from that tie alone? Nor will she ever forsake the helpless, the innocent, or the friendless.
The town now began to fill with great rapidity. Every public-house had its share of company, according to its own rank, and the rank of its guests;; was Set on every table; and the fife and drum proclaimed the officers quarters — except, indeed, the highest of the high, who forbade this martial parade, and eat his Sullen meal in all the dignity oi.ftlence.
Our minds being by this time Somewhat har monised, we took a ride to the martial Spot, where the things were in much forwardness for the reception of the then arrived troops; — the mountains, or rather furrows, were levelled, as was foretold, by the industry of the Soldiers; — and Such is the resort already to this beginning Camp, that a Small alehouse on the frontiers of the Heath, (which is, by the bye. Seven miles in circumference) was lifted into So great conse quence, that happy was the He or She who had Sufficient interest to procure a Seat, or other equally capital article of accommodation.
But I should tell you, it is the tonne or the Ladies to take their morning - airings on the Heath, dressed in a kind of regimental jacket and petticoat, with a hat and feather, not forgetting a cockade. It is clear to me, this Amazonian appearancevwas devised by Some confident Beauty, who Secretly laughs at the folly of her sister females
A N O V E L 27
males for being led by the nose in an article of dress which, though calculated perhaps to heighten the charms of a fine woman, most asturedly aggravates the defeats of a homely one.
The first who started en militaire in this part of the world, was a brace of duchestes, in a loy phaeton drawn by ponies; and i’ll affure yofi, they Smacked the Silken thong with the air described by the poet: nor could I forbear exclaiming, on beholding them, in the words of Dr. Young,
sesostris like, Such Charioteers as these
I
Might drive Six harnefs’d Monarchs, if they please,
But as I take it for granted, my father will Set his face against my being equipped in this high style of fashion, I have provided myself un habit neither red nor blue, nor lapelled nor belaced, but of the purest white, with a chapeau the Simplest imaginable and, in despite of all example, shall wear my hair in a state of nature — that is, without wool or powder, having a Sufficient quantity to enable me to decline every artificial addition; though I shall be cautious how I ccmfess as much, lest the mark of low breeding should be Set upon me..
I SUPPOSE I need not tell you, that the Regulars, as well as Militia, form'their Several corps into streets, distinguished by their name, or county, in which the tents are arranged with proper marks of subordination, till they rise to the marquees, before the entrance of each of which, in proportion to the consequence of the owner, chinese railings are erected, together with many little strokes of ingenuity that improve the general appearance.
The
23 C O X H E A T H :
/
The horses are, moreover, tied in lines to pickets before the men’s tents, where they are littered down at nights, and have a kind of awning extended from their master’s covering, to defend them from the weather.' The tra.q; ability of these creatures in all their mana'uvres is aston issiing, when it is remembered what fire and Spirit they are fraught with, and display in the hour, of action.
The Ladies who follow the Camp, I mean the trampers, are not permitted to steep in the tents, but have huts provided for their accommo* datiori at Some distance : they appear, however to me to be a most valuable martial appendages; for it is to their labours the poor fellows owe all the conveniences of their Situation; and the con test Seems to be, which Shall excel the others in Spruceing up their hero for exercise.
The children that accompany these itinerant helpmates are healthful and lovely; — and many a cara fpoja is now on the point of tumbling into the straw, as the Coxheath phrase is iox une accoucme : hut ail this is So much in the common pradice of the world, that it neither disturbs nor startles any one : .it is the dead and dying alone that calls the mind home, and awakens the most latent feelings of humanity.
My Sister, v^ho has Seen Such Sights as I hope my eyes will be ever more Spared — the ravages of war, and the carnage of a field of battle — ■ goes deeper into the affair : Tears steal Silently down her cheeks. She shakes her head with unutterable companion, and Sighs Forth Some Soft and Secret regrets of her own. But we will bring her to confestion before it is long, nor Suffer her, cormorant like, to devour all her griefs, without our participation.
On
A N O V E L 49
On casting a look back on what I have written, I find this Letter cannot be called a bouquet; or, at best, the roses I have this day gathered for you are not without thorns; but I am determined, in order to preserve my volatility, henceforth to See this encampment in no other light than an exhibition of our national strength, and a rehearsal of seats of prowess, to keep the hands of our summer heroes in.
Would to Heaven our magnus Apollo had been made of more penetrable fluff I But I pronounced decisively on his charaoter, when I learned he was an enemy to harmony — martial harmony, — the heart stirring trumpet, and the heart enlivening fife and drum; and forbade their playing, according to the military custom, whilst he was fet to dine. Shakespeare has, however, put a mark on Such men, which is no less infallible than indelible.
'f
Adieu,
My dear Madam,
And believe me to be,
Ella riverj.
vol. 1. C LET.
50 G O X H E A T H :
/'
'LETTER VII
C 4ruel Ella, and no less cruel Lydia! Is it postible your own sensibility Should not instrudt you, that however Camp descriptions might a, -- muse a mind at ease, they can afford little pleasure to a heart like mine?
My father is outrageous in his resentment, and niost unfortunately direq; s it all against the innocent head. Your father might be capricious, unreasonable, tyrannical; but Ferdinand — his own Ferdinand, that grew up on his knee, and was cherished in his bosoiri — to steal away — cast osf his protection— — his tendernes's I — May he perish, if he ever pardons him his base, his cool blooded ingratitude.
language Such as this is my Sole entertainment morning, noon, and evening. I dare not weep — I dare not plead the cause of injured virtue — or disabuse the abused: :, when I Seek consolation from your letters, instead of the anxi ousty desired intelligence — (I blush to write it — you might have kindly Spared my blushes) of the poor, banished Ferdinand, " He begins," Says Lydia, to bear his disappointment with more " patience than I could have hoped."~oh tell me! How did he Support, endure, demonstrate his impatience? If Lydia has loved, she has either Sorgot the passion, or she has Survived her humanity. — But you, Ella 1 what is become, of the congeniality of mind we boasted? Could I — • do you, can you think I could have treated you thus?
My
  51
My father is So far just in the midst of his wrath that he allows me to correspond with the unoffending girls, as he calls you and your filter; and adds, that, thank Heaven I children are not answerable for the pride, the insblence, or folly of their fathers. There is liberality in the distinction; and I am pleased it has not escaped his feelings. '
If Ferdinand, however, can be brought to forget, to renounce me, I shall not complain. My tender anxiety respefting him, if there is faith or truth in woman, arises from my idea of what he Suffers for ray Sake. That my fortune is Superior to his, is an accident : his merit will always entitle him, however, to look up as high, nay higher, than anything I possess; and should he be ambition struck — I abjured the thought, and despise myself for wronging him even in imagination will live for him, and him alone :.
For I, of all mankind, can love but one. '
Pity and forgive my petulance, my dearest girl. My Situation is a distreffed one, my mind a weak one; but my affection for you is undiminished, unshaken; — our friendship shall be exemplary, though our relationship may be prohibited by the stern will of fate, as well as by the stem will of Fathers. Write to me immediately; for your letters afford all the pleasure I now hope for, or can taste.
V
I am, cc.
Fletcher.
C 3 let
52
I
✓
t * ' •
LETTER Vin.
I
Of all afhiiftions taught a Lover yet,
’tisfure the hardest Science todrgt’/.
Why will you Seek the painful fatisfaslion of reading a truth your heart must be well assured of, viz. that poor Ferdinand is one of the most constant. Sighing, pining lovers in the creation; that die walks abroad with arms folded, eyes riveted ' on the ground, and his whole soul So totally engrossed by his tender reveries, that you may run bolt against hiiii without his perceiving you, or call loud enough to wake the dead, before he is roused to attention! Are you content, or Shall I add, that all the demoiselles resorting to this Spot, though Set off to the best advantage both in dress and looks, are dowdies in his estimation; their voices discord;; conversation nonfense; their Sentiments idle; and their conduct absurd, when compared with the Goddess of his idolatry. — And thus do I wind up the bottom of my account; for, believe me, the laws of the Medes and j^ersians were not less capable of changing, than his attachment of diminution.
Last night arrived at the Camp un bead.cheva l\gy — the new made Captain, my dear Madam, of my father’s Company, who is now three and twenty, and about to enter on his first campaign; Mr. Ri vers, his Lieutenant, being only twenty-three years his Senior, and what may justly be styled a veteran Soldier. No matter : Captain Melvin is a very pretty Sellow, and the mofl worthy the rank he has attained, of any Officer within
the
: A N O V E L 53
the whole circle of my acquaintance, as you your self Snail ] udge.
Mrs. Mildmay had brouarht me to the Heath, and Lydia was pouring out our tea, when a diuiumeri presented himsels" to announce the yciung Commander, who politely waited in my father’s watch box for leave rio Speak with him. ■
My father Sighed — Mrs. Mildmay blushed a blush of generous indignation — and Lydia and L felt, with the keenest Shnfibliitv, for the feelings oi our revered relation. — " This is a favour I " little expeoied," said my father leading in^his blooming guest; " it'was my part" — - — •
"I CAN hear no more," replied Melvin. -- -- --
** All men, my good Sir, must Submit, with the " best possible grace, to their condition but I " shall always be ashamed of the nominal superi ority I am placed in, to an Officer of your known merit and experience. If y ou can, how ever, behold me without resentment— — " the individul from the deed — I would Solicit ** the honour of your friendship; on these only " terms, that you found rny ambition to form N rayself by your instruoticn and example, as “giving me Some little claims to Such a condef
"cension. -- -- You have, a Son,! understand,
"nearly my, age : Let us be your pupils; teach " us not to disgrace the proseffion we' have started " in; Save me from the contempt I must otherwise incur with good minds, by Suffering me " to call you my guardian and preceptor; and, above all, show me you can be as gracious as " you are goodbye admitting me to an instant " equality, a "Tccial intercourse with yoifand " yours."
C 3 The
54
The air, the manner accompanying these words was affedfing, was irresistible. My father and Mrs. Mildmay extended each a hand, in token of approbation, in token of amity; my brother. Softened by the Scene, embraced him with the affection of a brother; — and Lydia and I made room for him to Sit between us.
He was delighted. A dish of tea, intended for Ferdinand, stood near him: he helped himself with the ease and confidence of intimacy; andlooking round, " I never felt myself at home," laid he, " till now. Your children, Mr. Rivers, have been brought up in allthe felicity of pa ternal endearment. I have obligations of a ** different sort to my father. He has liberally " provided for me. If fortune could atone for the want of every tender,, every reverential, " every exemplary relationship, I should have " nothing to complain of; but I would this mo ment exultingly exchange my possessions for the ' treafuers your children can boast — A brother, "Sister, a father! — Tell me, Sir, what can " money purchase to Soothe, to Satisfy, to touch " the heart like those endearing relations ?"
You must know, this uncommon creature, this black Swan, is the natural Son of a Mr. St. Alban, an East Indian of immense wealth, and was born abroad.
His mother he never Saw, and has little or ho remembrance of his father, being Sent over so England for education at a very early age; and had Scarcely attained his ninth year before Mr, St. Alban died, and left him five and twenty thousand pounds. At School he contracted a taste for the tirmy, and is pushing forward Sora truncheon. ^now will I give you right wholesome advice. •ferdinand is a poor fsjlovj in every Sense of the
word.
A N O V E L 55
word, when compared with this phcenomenon: — make, therefore, a transfer of your heart in melvin’s favour, and let me alone for bringing matters to bear between you.
This mention of his birth was evidently designed to lift us into consequence with ourselves, and facilitate the familiarity he aspired to. Mrs. mudmay is in raptures with him; my father is infinitely pleased with him, the young Cadet is happy with him; and Lydia and I are become rival sisters on his account. Here is ample Scope for adventure 1
The Cadet and his new friend walked forth at length to reconnoitre, and Mrs. Mildmay took her leave. Tiie ride was the shortest we had ever known it; for we reached mildmay*hall, my dear, before we had half finished the account of our mutual Surprise and mutual joy to find, at So degenerate a period as our moral Writers represent the present, So amiable a character as melvin’s. On my conscience, I believe my Sweet benefafilress forgets she is upwards of thirty, and means to become a candidate with your young friends: the contest will be a warm one.
■ This is a dawn of Such felicity as we could not have hoped for. — Ferdinand has now a most ■ agreeable companion; my father, an indulgent, a respedtful Superior; — our little dinner and tea parties will be enlivined; Mrs. Mildmay can make Melvin fifty presents for my father’s participation, without wounding his delicacy; -- we girls shall have a Swain who will think himself honoured, all humble as our Situation is, by our notice; and I shall be furnished with many a lively tale for ' the amusement of rny friend, to which I must otherwise have been a stranger. — Oh I it was a
C 4 white
f.
56
/
white hour, Madam, the hour of his arrival at Coxheath! and for Such have I marked it down
on my tablet. -- Adieu! for having finished
my subject, I will finisli ray epistle,
And am yours,, Stc.
Ella Rivers,
v >r^
>
w iina —.. ■
1
LETTER IX
A knight errant without a mistress, says honest Sancho Pancha, is like a tree without leaves; in like manner a Soldier — the Knight
errant of our modern times: no wonder, then,
*
Melvin should be in a hurry to complete his martial chara; er by falling in love with — ■ — Lydia, Her features, I grant you, are not to be resist cd; So shst, So penetrating is the sensibility by which they are animated: methinks, however, it is pity So fine a fellow should obtain but half a heart in return for his first and unreserved attachment. It waslier defiinyi you know, to love the loveliest of his Sex in the American World, and there is no restoring the original tone to the once engaged affections.
It, happens, my dear madam, on this occasion, that you are mistaken, — Lydia is not the lady of melvin’s wishes. — Mrs. mildmay’s — well thrown conjeslure. — - — Mrs. Mildmay is everything that is amiable in woman; — an elegant peribn, an
accom
A N O V E L 57
I
accomplished mind, a capital fortune. — I am Sorry she is a widow; and that the dispai ity of age Should be so mortifying on her Side, yet as I don’t See he can do better. Heaven, I lay. Send them all imaginable happiness 1
Pro voking girl 1 — So you would not remember me?' — I am vountrer ■ even than i.vdia, and have more vivacity than even Mrs. Mildmay : • — why, therefore, should you take it in your head, that the demure damsel or the matron had all the chances in their favour? — It was malicious— — was a studied piece of disregard — it was envy — it was insult— — was — But why should I trouble myself to charaoteris'e the action, when I have it in iny power to punish it by — telling you — 1 — yes, inadam, I, Ella Rivers, am the objeot of )he handfnme, the noble, the rich, the gay Capt. melvin’s choice, admiration, and attachment.
He wmuld have declared himself to me in form : but I am so apprehensive of my father’s delicacy proving an impediment, that I will contrive to make him move within the friendly line till the breaking up of the campaign, and that hfs friends are Set down at their ease in winter quarters, when ' they may talk the businefs over at their leisure— — my dear madam, he should endeavour to inform himself, whether the good-humour he So ■ much admires in me is genuine or artificial — constitutional or local. — Perhaps I may be found a very dull companion in a chimney corner, though So de agbe'm the field, where everything conspires to keep one alive and merry — the fis'e, the drum, the ball, the Social circle, the frequent Sips one takes of that Sweet cordial fiatterv. But he makes a point of showing me he is rash enough to try experiments, if not restrained by my wisdom and liberality.
C 5 Jealous
58
Jealous eyes, they Say, see double; hencelsup fpose it was that I could not persuade myself Lydia was insensible to melvin’s merit; — I therefore, for her peace sake, and my own honour, did not hesitate a moment what part to aot, when the Sweet fellow laid his heart at my feel. I repeated to her verbatim the conversation we had had together; concluded with thanking God my approbation of him had not run away with my Sisterly affection, and that she had only to Speak what she wished he should be to me.
** Ella," replied this Sentimental girl, " as I " have never yet told you the state of my heart, I " accept the offer you now make with the live" best gratitude. But Captain Melvin is all your " own. I esteem, I revere his noble mindedness: - — he is the most perfect of human beings; and " I congratulate you on your favourable prospects
« — would Say more -- -- — Pity my wakenels
"— and stnce you have by this stroke of unreserved confidence and kindness entitled your self to " a knowledge of all my concerns, you shall receive it. — But my pen must Speak for me :
"— I can write, though I cannot utter the me"
"-- Our friend too, I am certain,
"would be pleased by a communication. — It will Save you a letter; — you shall therefore inciose " what I will present you with tomorrow morn ing, for her perusal. — Give Melvin every dir " stin6tion his merit claims, and may my father’s " consent Sandtify your tender friendship I — You ** deserve to be, and, I trust, Ella, you will be ' " happy !"
Poor thing! my heart bleeds for her— — always fuspedled her of a Secret attachment, but am unable to devine what deep shades hang over
her
A N O V E L 59
her destiny. Being already, however, apprised of their hue, I will (with your good leave) dedicate the remainder of my paper toeuphrosyne.
Come, thou Goddess, fair and free.
In Heaven ycleped Euphrosyne S
And So much by way of invocation.
Melvin had the address to give the credit of an elegant ball to his brother officers, though the piece of gallantry was all his own.
Mrs. Mildmay, my father (but he declined), Ferdinand, and his Sisters were invited.
But I Should first tell you, we had dined the day before en militaire in that gentleman’s marquee. Our table was covered, at the Sounding of martial music; every toast was received with martial plaudits; and we constituted a very pretty ^ Spedtacle for metropolitan curiosity; whole troops of gapers pasting and repasfing the door, and envying us our festive interval, our momentary relaxtioii; from the toils of the field.
Here the ball was announced, and the invitation circulated; — whilst Melvin whispered in my ear, his presumptuous hopes of being honoured ^ with my hand. I turned my eyes'full upon him; he looked down with Such humility. Such submission to my Sovereign will, that I could not refuse to make him happy. — Ferdinand — it is proper you should know it — tendered his Services to Mrs. Mildmay, who promised, if She danced, he should be her man. — Lydia pleaded a head ^ach, and would not be of the party, but staid to bear the Lieutenant company.
At the appointed hour, Mrs. Mildmay and myself arrived at the place of rendezvous, dressed
at
6o
at all points, and with hearts bent on conqest Ferdinand and Melvin behaved very galhently on the occasion; and I, your friend, had the eclat of opening the ball with the loid of the feast. Captain Melvin. He resigned me to an aequain • tance of his for my Second minuet, with a compliment I do not Sufficiently remember to do it justice on paper : I Shall, therefore, only tell you, it was very fensible, very insinuating, and a that, A few cotillons were danced, but the general voice was for the old custom of Old England; and I and my partner went thro’with great Spirit all the busy bustling of Over the hills and far away," and " Kate of Aberdeen," before we filed off to the bottom of the room to take breath.
I COULD perceive Some interesting matter hung on melvin’s lips he was unable to get off; and' as music, calculated to awaken the tender pastions, I could not forbear, I fear, being a little encouraging in my behaviour; for he at length made me sensible, that he Should thenceforth live only for me, and pressed me to Say my heart had no pre.. — I answered like a heroine, my father was master of it.
He rep’ied, with the piety of ieneas, heask" ed no saur but as he might " come recommended by Mr. Rivers."
I SHUDDERED at the recolledlion of Mr. ^iversh Catonian virtues, and how you was Smarting under the exertion of them; and, as the last effort of self regard, entreated him to forbear every mention of his favourable Sentiments of me while we remained in that quarter of the world.
He promised implicit obedience on one condition.
I YIELD
A N O V E U 6i
»
I YIELDED of neceslity, and fuitered him to kis's my hand, as a kind of Sealing the implied contra between us, and he Seemed to tread air all the ensuing evening.
Mrs. Mildmay having picked up a fourth person to their mind, drew off Ferdinand to a quadrille table — what half souled beings! — ‘whilst we footed it till midnight; when adjourning to Mildmay hall, we drank our coffee, and Separated on our Several callings — our beaux to their exercise, and us belles to steep, with a comfortable dole of which we indulged ourselves, insomuch that it was midday before we arose.
Our company consisted of twelve ladies and twelve gentlemen dancers, nine of whom, on my honour, were Captain Brazens, two Mr. Worth) s, and one Captain Plume.
The play of the Recruiting Officer entered my head, you muss know, at Supper, when the rattling tongue of Saucy eloquence began to strike hard on my ear; and here appeared to me So happy a Similitude in Some respedts of the Scenes I was engaged in, that, for distinction sake, I christened my Sparks Captain John, James, Robert, Charles, Richard, and Stephen Brazen, according to their names; Melvin, Captain Plume; and my brother * and another young fellow, Ferdinand and Frank Worthy; by which appellation I Shall make free to mention them, as occasion may require or authorise. I, moreover, resolved on the Spot to look about me in Camp for Sergeant kite’s deluded bumpkins, and country girls forward to be undone by noble Captains; nor do I despair except in the person of Justice Balance) of filling up the whole group. — Take notice, I myself am the Sylvia of the piece; —.
Mrs.
I
62 CO X H E A T H. :
Mrs. Mildmay, Melinda; — and as for the other ladies, they Shall not have the honour of being introduced on the Same ground with females of my friendship and family.
We are to have a concert of vocal and instrumental music in my Cptain plume’s marquee, in which I shall bear a part; but I am debating with myself, whether the penforofo or the allegro is most adapted to my voice; and that I may Secure myself from all errors in judgement, shall take lydia’s opinion before I determine— — Lydia! — It checks my giddy vivacity to remember she is now, perhaps, weeping over past Scenes, and preparing to rob both you and me of Some Sympathetic tears. — Yet is it Sufficient to hold ourselves in readiness to, share communicated Sorrows: we should be Suicides in happiness, to wound our repose by those which are irhagina ry. I will instantly remit you her tale of woe, without preface or comment; for, if I mistake not, it will be trebly acceptable, to anything I could offer;
Though I am
So fincerly and'affedionately your
\
Ella Rivers.
r' -'
\
LET
••
A N O V E L ^3
LETTER X
f ' t ^ '.
You have repeatedly, my dear Sister, throvsoi out hints, that you believed my affections were not my own. — You have good reason for your Suspicions; but you Shall read the histpry of my heart.
About four years ago, when the American became the hostile Scene, my father being stationed with a little corps of observation in a village, my mother and I, for the pleasure of his company, took up our residence in the neighbourhood.
We three, a Social and happy circle, had just finished an ehrly Supper one evening, when a man who had run himself out of breath, and was covered with blood, rushed into the room. — My father started — my mother and I hastily demanded whence he came —
Most merciful Sir I" cried he, disregarding us women," fly and Save my master’s life! His " house is now Surrounded either by Indians or ** russians. — Surrounded did I Say? They must " by this time be got in, and are, perhaps,
"butchering all its inhabitants." — This was ' enough! My father Snatched up his Sword; gave the word for assembling his little forces; pressed us — all weeping as we were — in his arms; and followed the guidance of the poor fellow, who, it Seems, had by stratagem made his escape, after receiving a slight wound on his head.
Think, my Ella, think what an interval wc experienced.’ — We knew my father’s humanity et^ualled his courage, and that he would expose himself far beyond the letter of his duty to defend the distressed.
6-4 C O X H E A T H .'
In less than an hour he returned — and returned unhurt — with a youth to all appearance dead, born on a feather bed by Some Soldiers, who, by my father’s orders, laid him down before us, and retired.
"Here," Said he, " is exercise for your tenderness, your goodness of heart! - — He has only fainted from loss of blood, lost in a fa ther’s cause— — must revive him."
My mother understood these matters. — I Supported his head, whilst She applied things to his temples, the palms of his hands, and his feet; and, to her great fatisfaotion, was So far Successful, that, he opened his eyes, and by degrees recovered himself so as to be able to have his wounds dressed— — he had received Several — and was lodged with the utmost tenderness under our roof.
It is supposed that rapine was the Sole purpose of the attack, as the house was stripped of all its valuables; but what is not So clearly comprehensible is, that having overcome the Son (who threw himself before his father and the assassins), and, as they believed, finished him, they made a prisoner.of the old gentleman, and had dragged him away before my I'ather could arrive. — He, however, • prevented much carnage; for they declared ^ they would Scalp every individual, not even Sparing the youth’they had beheld a martyr to filial piety; and then Set the place on fire. — They stead at the appearance of the troops.'
X Mr. Wilson, was deeply affected at his father’s fate, and Seemed to confider death as more eligible than bondage; though he would often Say, " I am proud. Sir, of being your prisoner an address which never Sailed to involve these two most generous of men in a warm alter
/ — -
  65
cation; — my father insisting upon it, he had acted as his deliverer only; — wilson affirming, he had made himself master of his liberty.
So Soon as he was perfedfly recovered, he besought my father to let him bear arms under him. — " I am ambitious," he would say, " of one " day rendering Some of my Species a Similar Service to that Shave experienced. It is a glorious exertion of human courage to preserve a " life, and check the devastations of Savages! — " Your exarriple shall be my lesson of instruction."
My father gave hirp a Sword, and leave to use it; but forbade his confining himself to the military profeshon. — " We must not," Said he, " mistake the effusions of gratitude and benevolence for choice. — besides, who knows how " Soon the paternal authority may mark you out ** a new course 1" — At these words I perceived he would look tenderly on me. — I leave you to judge, Ella, what was my object of contemplation, when I made that discovery. ‘
Very many Ski finishes happened with the Americans, in one of which my father received a ball in his Side. — This youth was his companion; but though he evermore adfed agreeably to his duty, it was apparent the Safety of his benefactor was his greatest concern. — In pity to your fa mily (he wmuld say) Spare youu^^lf, where you " can with propriety, and let me have the ho nour of fulfilling your wishes. I am enurest " to danger. — I shall not disgrace you bv shrinking— — me to the proof. -- You know not “what I can do in your Service."
His affedlionate attention was Such to my mo ■ that she Seemed to forget he was not her own child; — and Such his brotherly regard tor me,
that
ft
66
that I found I had lost the distinfiuon between my love, of a stranger and of Ferdinand, in my heart. • — It was so natural. So pleasurable, however to love, and know myself beloved, in a land of slaughter, that I had not the resolution to resist ksinfinuations, until by Some incident poor Wilson came to the knowledge of my Sentiments; and we were confessedly the whole universe to each other.
My father was commanded to join in a dangerous enterpri?, e. — My mother drooped from that instant. — We were so near the Seat of action, that we heard the guns, every one of which were so many daggers to her Sensibility. Night carne n!! — husband blested her eyes. — At three in the morning, a beating at the door roused her from the only stumberstie had fallen into. — It was a mefsen.ger — but not a messenger of glad tidings.
The king’s troops were defeated — many officers slain, many taken prisoners — " Was not Mr. Ri“ “returned to his family?" ?"

She fainted in my arms. — " He is dead !" Said she, opening her eyes. " Dh how true were my " forebodings I and what will not be my poor " girl’s distress, when she finds herself an orphan I" Again the door gave notice of Some one’s arrival — again my mother fainted. — It was Mr. wilson — but Suddenly reviving, " Kneel, ’' Said she, " and promise to protect my helpless ** — I cannot, I will not outlive my husband !"
Mr. Rivers, Madam," cried wilson, " is on his way hither — I will not Say unharmed, though harmed but slightly— — impatience ** to relieve your Spirits, prevailed on him to let " me precede him. — I would not for the world deceive you, as you must be So Soon undeceived. —
1
  '67
1 *
** ceived. — assure yourself I am incapable of every
Such mistaken, Such cruel kindness— — will " be here in a few hours."
** Hours! Mark that, my lost girl! — v/hat
must his condition be to move on So stow <c ly? — This, this delay is worse to me than " death !"
The good, the tender fellow exhausted his utmost eloquence in her Support; he begged her, even on his knees, to be composed for all our sakes to be composed — She endeavoured to oblige him; but Smiled through her tears, ' when she did Smile, and could not conceal the Smartwig ■ anguish of her heart.
At length, a noise was heard. — She was for flying to meet her husband;; so great was lifer' ' for the time, that we could Scarce restrain her. — He was brought into her room, pale — and speechless; when, contrary to our expectation, she made no effort to rise, but viewed him with a fixed, an agonising attentions Nature, in her whole tragic drama, never drew Such a Scene.
Wilson pressed my hand ~ a stood of tears Seemed to lighten my weight of affliction. — A Surgeon attended. — My mother’s fever, he Said, had Seized her brain and my father’s wound was mortal.
• We knew not howto divide ourselves; but wilson apprehending more terror for me from my mother’s delirium, when if should come to its height, than from my father’s Silent Suffering, insisted upon my being his nurse, whilst he super intended the nursing of the woman he almost revered.
My father stepped till morning, and was much refreshed. He ashed in a low voice for wilson — his wife. — The Surgeon luckily came in before I
could
6s' C O X H E A T H :
could answer; and telling him his Safety depended on his being kept quiet, he consented I alone should Sit by him.
; My mother’s disorder took a very different. turn to what was expected. Instead of frenzy, she fell into st upefa£tion : the Spring of her nerves was broken by anxiety; her heartstrings were rent by grief she languished without remedy for Several days, before my father was judged lit to bear the melancholy tidings.
Wilson approached the bed stde fc=>ftly; but my father was aware of him. — He held out his • hand — the hand that had Saved his young friend’s life. — He kissed it — he Sat down by him, and I ■ retired. But, my dear Ella, 1 only exchanged one sick room for another; though all my attendance on our mother was deemed unnecessary by those about her, as she was altogether insensible.. it. — But when nature came to its last struggle, _ what a change did it produce! She was colleoled,. composed; she bid me listen to the few words she had to Say to me — her dying request, she added — her departing injun6lion.
"As you would shun a precipice, sheware of loving a Soldier. It will be the death stroke of " your peace! — My tender and lively affection for your father has as effeotually destroyed me, ** as a Sword or a pistol could have done. — Bear testimony of all you hear and lee to your Sister. " — Tell her she is included in my blessing, my prayers — and oh that i could but have taken a " last farewell of your father I"
My father heard this exclamation, and would be instantly conveyed, tho’ at the hazard of his existence, into her apartment. — She clasped her hands together — she threw herself on his neck — she blessed him — and expired. — But he was Spared
the
- - -, f S! ■ '
A NOV E L 6g
the most deadly portion of his Sorrow; for to this hour he believes she died of a fever. — She did die of a fever; but it was the fever, of anguish and a broken heart.
Wilson took every office on himself respe6t ing the funeral. He had fought as a Volunteer, or rather, voluntary attendant on my father, and as Such claimed his privilege of following his fortune. — He made haste to bury our dead oiit of our Sight.
tlis conversation, and the argufnents he used ■ respedting the paternal duty, contributed in a great measure to preserve our father. He Saw we loved; — he pitied, he excused us he enjoined us not to add affliction to afstidtion, by thinking of an union under Such auspices as war and bloodshed, but wait patiently for better days. — This was all the indulgence we hoped for; and most religiousty did we make his will our law.
It was two months bet'ore my father could go abroad, and he was then only conveyed in a kind of litter. The ball had grazed his lungs, it was thought, by his Surgeons'; but its passage was oblique, and by his perfect recovery, I must conclude they were mistaken.
In all these little excursions wilson was his guard du corps. — Our partings were frequent, and our re unions uninterrupted, until one fatal morning — when can T write it? — he was, misting in my father’s little train ' — his Supporting arm nq longer presented itself: — alone, unacornpanied, at least by Wilson, he entered his dwelling, where wil Son, alas! never entered .more.
Watchings Stlch as happy minds can form no image of, did I experience! — I heard him in every footstep, and tried to trace out his features in every approaching individual. — Had he been
cut
70
cut off in battle — had he been the prey of wild beasts, or, what is yet worse in my idea, the pfey of Savages, the certainty of his fate, the ending of his life would have been a blested ending of my Sorrows. — But whether living or dead, he is still dear to me, — aud I still must weep his loss— — ask of Heaven, Ella, in its utmost mercy, only to permit me to discover, that — — he is no more.
Need I now bespeak your pity or forbearance? — Jests are stabs to the wounded mind. — May you be ever, ever happy, prays your
N
Lydia Rivers t
. i.
...I -
L E T T E R Xr.
Since thou art deny’d to my heart, -
What bliss can hereafter be mine?
Po OR Lydia,! — How you must blusti, my dear madam, at your impatience under your light disappointments, when weighed against her deep, her trying affliction!! lover not only lives, but declaredly lives for you. He lives in the esteem of all his acquaintance — in health, in in peace (for ours is only a holiday camp), in Safety; breathes the same air with you, inhabits the Same kingdom, and almost every Succeeding post brings you tidings of him from mine or lydia’s pen; — yet have you wept, and lamented
his
A N O V E L 71
hisloss, as if Seas, and Savages, and every formidable, every deatli bearing calamity were the barriers between you. — Read, then, I beseech you, read my gentle and uncomplaining sifter’s account of what she had endured, and still endures, and learn resignation.
There is yet another of the Brazens that I must take leave to introduce to your acquaintance; but he, my dear, is a Lord — So you will less wonder at his title. And that I may not confound him with the Captain James, the Captain Charles, or the other before recited noble Captain Brazens, I will omit his military addition, and call him Lord Brazen only.
A coach fulloflondonladiesarrived Somewhat unexpectedly, and Somewhat late last night at Mildmay hall. One of them was tolerably well-known to Mrs. Mildmay, the others entire strangers; but they were women of family and fortune, and the least agreeable of the whole party y/?£t to a Lord. — The Lord bless them 1 — How little did that relationship avail her in our good opinion; for it is the sterling, the intrinstc meritof the individual that is the only currency with us, the only passport to our approbation.
My lord’s Sister not having had aii Earl or a Marquis for her father, was, however, obliged to content herself with plain Miss, in the same manner as your humble friend — Miss Brazen; — for we will graciousty give her the family name, together with all its honours and hereditaments; for my Lord, her boasted brother, has all the pride, ail the ill nature, all the stare, and all the strut of all the Brazens; from which marks my lord’s Sister fully proves her legitimacy and rightful claims to the blood of the Brazens^ — I hope, by this time, you are Sufficiently mistress of their characters

72
raders and persons to enter into their Suture concerns with pleasure and feelingy is required.
The ladies were So impatient to visit the Heath, that, notwithstanding the fatigue of their ' journe}^, they would, I verily believe, have Sat up all night, rather than run the hazard of over steeping themselves, and losing the morning exer cife. Mrs. Mildmay Settled the point, however, to their entire Satisfadlion, by assuring them, that a Servant Should be put on duty, for the purpose of giving them timely notice of the sun’s up rising, before which it would be unnecessary tore pair to the field.
The morning came, when Mrs. Mildmay and myself made a part of the attendant cavalcade; and the ladies, to their unspeakable mortification, discovered, that to have figured away to advantage, they ought also to have been ea chevalz but as they were wholly unprovided with hats and feathers in the camp style, it was not in my benefadtress’s power to gratify their vanity, or horses would have been at their Service.
Lord Brazen s’ corps was drawn forth. — > Not Mars himself e’er looked So fierce as he! — • A Scream from the coach of " Brother! my " Lord !" burst like a volley on his ear. — He rolled his eyes around; — the beckoning hand of miss Brazen directed his attention aright; and the Salutes interchanged were Such as I shall not give myself the trouble to describe : — they would fully my paper.
The equestrian figures then caught his notice. He had heard of Mildmay hall, the beauty of its Situation, the benevolence of its owner, but never till that happy mornent could Say he had observed the lady with whole fame he was So much enamoured.
"arelationi"
I
A N O V E L 73
"A RELATION 1" he presumed, bowing to me.
"The daughter of a friend — the worthiest " man living, and a Soldier !"
"Had he the honour of knowing the gentleman ?"
"Mr. Rivers 1"
"Yes, let me whisper it (Said Mrs. Mildmay, “most agreeably) that I may not Scandalise my F‘ Sovereign — Lieutenant Rivers."
He covered a leer of impertinence with an ob sequious bow, and invited us to refresh in his marquee.
To his marquee we went, where ..the air of the pretty fellow made us quite forget the Soldier. Everything was So fine and So finikin, So dainty and So studied. So bedecked and So befringed, that there was no end to the marveilings and tlve applaudings of the ladies; ana we were obliged to Sacrifice our truth on the altar of his vanity, and close in at every favourable pause with " Very
pretty! very pretty indeed 1"
But with all this petit tnaitrejhlp about him, he was no degenerate Son of the Brazens. He ogled me with a confidence that startled me, and chattered away without fear or wit, though he had the honour of entertaining So amiable and accomplished a woman as Mrs. Mildmay; invite ed hirnself to the Hall, nothing doubting; and, as the coup de grace of his politeness, would escort us on horseback through the Lines, ami present us, tn pajfanty to his general
ws’iemounted. — Hedividedhimfelf, asit were, between my protedtress and me. — She was a lady of uncommon penetration, for she gave/5/jk credit for Superabundant prowess; and " he doubted not the reproach of the Army would Soon be
D done
74
done away by rivers’s advancement. — He was no apt to boast, but he believed he had Some litih interest with the Higher Powers; — and the beau' ty of the daughter would prove a memento so the interest of the father." — I bowed, i sea Somewhat Scornfully; but my heart Spoke, and could not be on my guard.
The General was at his dobr, equipped like; General. Methought his brow would well be come the laurel wreath. — Lord braz en advanced announced the company. — His Sister was graci ousty recognised — her friends politely Saluted. — Mrs. Mildmay received a slight compliment, an' / a cold movement of his hat: — but he had a lad waiting for him, to whom he was impatient to pa his devoirs — the queen of his wishes — the Sovc reign of his affections— — partner of his empii " — the Spirited female — the modern Eloise: :
there be yet another name more free,
More fond than mistress, make me that to thee.
And we were soon convinced, that however 1 kept up the dignity of the Commander on evei aether occasion, he wasan actual in Silkc
strings, to be led about, checked, cc. ath' high will.
Lord Brazen pointed me out to many < his acquaintance— — " don’t like this man’s b" " Said Mrs. Mildmay : " he is a I bertine in principle, and a russian in temper." Heaven avert, his malice! for if I have ar " Skill, he has malicious destgns against you no " in his heart."
Am I not your child, replied I; and are yc not both able andwilling to protect me ?"
"I GRANT it, and I will be more explicit (
"th
A N O V E L 75
"that point," added She, " lest his narrow
** Should misread the nature of our " connexion— — was as good as her word.
"Ella, my Lord, is not merely my companion, my friend, my god child, but my " adopted daughter; and So precarious is life, and uncertain human intentions, that whether I marry or die, I have put it out of my own power to do her injustice. I brought her up " from her infancy, educated her with the nicest " care, gave her claims to an ample proviston, " and it is my pride and glory, that I have proved myself, where those claims are the question; " a woman of honour. She is too modest to tell " a tale that is calculated to lift her even into due " consequence; I am therefore happy youf ‘5 lordship’s very particular inquiries into the " origin and meaning of my attachment to her" " furnished me not only with a handsome, " but a necestary opportunity of clearing up a " point, which might be liable to misconception or misconstruqiion."
Lord Brazen thanked her for the honour she had done him, with that Silly difconcertion which marks the features of the bold and base, when detedfed or prevented in their unworthy Schemes; and converted his familiarity into Something like respedt, when he afterwards addressed me.
It has had its destred esfeft," Said this wonderful woman; " and I have only to inform you, " that you will find every word I uttered a sacred, an established truth; and you vrill oblige me (in conformity to the dirty notions of " the world) by holding up your head accordingly."
Da This
tjs
/
This, my dear madam. Is no more than I es pe6ted; but as neither my gratitude or my ad miration is capable of addition, I Shall leave yo to make your own rcfleddions — on the assuranc she has given me that! am ampjy provided for.
We returned to Mildmay hall to dinner. Lor (Brazen accompanying us.
Mildmay hall, my dear madam, has th magnificence of an Eastern palace, without th pageantry; decorum takes the place of parade The most Sumptuous entertainment has there th air of a friendly repast; — every Servant know and performs their duty : and the mistress’s com mands are no Sooner received, than things dispos themselves in proper order, as it were mechanically; or, perhaps, to give you a clearer idea as if Some good-natured Fairy, by thejudiciou exercise of her wand, produced Silently and in stantaneousty every elegant arrangement.
Lord Brazen was struck dumb with fur prize! — Bethought he had Seen the Splendid an the immense; — but Mildmay hall surpastei .whatever his eye had beheld, and he no longer wa at a loss to account for itsuniverlal same.
My apartment was'shewn, amongst the rest nay, I suspedt was ostentatiousty shown. It i next to Mrs. mildmay’s; but far Superior in th( richness of its furniture, and the high finish of it architecture. It was the unworthy idea of charitj she sought to chase from their imaginations; — and during the whole day rebuked their most Secret mistakes of that complexion, by the most af sedtionate attention to me on every occasion.
"I live but in her company," Said she.; — Mildmay hall would be a desert, if she was tc forsshe me. — She knows the way to every recess of my heart; can Soothe, delight, and re
‘‘ gulatc
A N O V E L 77
A
"gulteit, as she pleases— — Sick, she is " my physician; — when Sorrowful, the cordial " drop of my existence; — and when in health,
"she heightens my every enjoyment by her " friendly participation. — You must pardon me.. ** my dear Ella, for once Speaking of you when ** present, in the language I always use when " absent, — You know my Sincerity, and what " obligations I have to you; — The dear child, la dies, has left father, and moister, stster, and " brother, for me; nor shall she ever repent the " tenderness of her conduq; ."
Ico u LD perceive the ladies would gladly have dispensed with this Sauce to their venison; — their souls, madam, had no relish for Sentimental chat, r — Another cause was, however, most politely called by the Lady of the feast, the moment she had fulfilled her desire of Setting me in a proper light; — and, except a glance of envy, which now and then escaped them; — as who should say, " I" “asture you. Madam is in fine quarters !" — " Yes, yes, she knows how to choose and refuse, it is plain; — to prefer living in all the delicacies imaginable to following the Camp with ** the poor Lieutenant her fathtr; " — except, I repeat, these glances, the evening pasted off to the general Satisfaction.
The ladies would have taken their leave in the morning; but Mrs. Mildmay pressed them with So Sweet a grace to favour her with their company a Second time to Camp, that they could not deny themselves the pleasure of attending her; ■ and, as I had my immediate presentiment my father’s marquee is to be the place of our entertainment. — She is determined, my dear, to punish them with a sight of the whole family.
D 3 But,
78
;
But, as the day’s adventures will be poor ir deed, if not entitled to a special letter, I Shall coi elude this with asturing' you, that nothing is wan ing to complete the happiness of the Scene, but what is impossible to be had — the felicity of a certain lady’s presence, who shall be nameless for variety of political and pious reasons— — fa too tedious and too tender to mention. — Heigt ho! — and thus in Sober sadness I Subscribe myself'
'
Ella Rivers, letter XII
. They raind no other thing But the Ladies and the King j For every other care is a Slavery, oh I
V
X E S, my .dear madam. Mars and Venus an the only divinities a Soldier bows the knee to; anc I have remarked it, in proportion to the valouj of the man, is the warmth, the ssneerity of the lover. Lord Brazen may counterfeit the character, but has no natural claims to it : he want! the grand essentials — liberality and sensibility.
( I HOPE the meritof my little quotations is nol lost upon you. I think to borrow an expression of Corporal trim’s, it makes a letter look better, in the face, -- -- The Scotch Sonnet is an old oncj
from
\
A N O V E L 79
from whence the lines which decorate this epistle are taken; but it is not the less true or the less applicable; and you may read it through, if it Ihail So please you, in your collection of ballads.
Though commistions are dear,
1 will buy him one this year,
He Shall Serve no longer a Cadet, oh!
The wife. Says the French proverb, understand half a word,
Never was Such a contrast! It had been Lord brazen’s pride to entertain us in all the Slippery of foppery; — it was Mrs. mildmay’s pride my father Should receive us in all the dignity of plainness;; — with so much judgement were the cates Selected, that Humility herself might have done the honours of the lieutenant’s marquee with exultation; — for she would there have appeared in all her native loveliness — the beauties of good Sense, and the ornaments of Simplicity.
My Lord was all condescenston. He shook mv
A
father fey the hand, clapped my brother on the shoulder, kisfed the ladies, and vowed that Rivers was the only fellow in the Camp that knew how to live.
Melvin, on his return from exercise, dropped in upon us. He bowed carelesty, haughtily I thought, to Lord Brazen — complaisantly to the ladies — coloured up to the ears at every piece of right honourable gallantry paid me — and Seemed to look, " If you dare to form any pretenstons ** there, I wear a Sword." — A foolish hotheaded boy 1 Does he not knov/ the difference between coqueting it, and the union of hearts?
Mrs. Mildmay told the ladies, that if it was most agreeable to dine their last day in Gamp, she
D 4 believed
So
believed She had interest enough with Mr. Rivers to get a hamper, waiting for Such permistion at the door of the marquee, admittecl. The proposal was received with a general plaudit, except by Melvin. I bid him not be a fool, but treat me with indisterence, for reasons I would give him at a more convenient time. I could just lay So much to him, to bring him in to order, whilst the bus tle of opening the hamper, and Setting forth the contents on my father’s camp table, engaged the attention of the company. — But he is a dreadful distembler, and made very bungling work of his iff assumed character.
A LARGE ham, three couple of fowls, a Sweetbread pie, and a pigeon ditto, with cheese, fruit, cc. were the contents of the secretly conveyed hamper, with a dozen bottles of excellent wine, smuggled, I may call it, into the marquee; for no leave was asked or granted for their introdu6tion. — Lord Brazen Swore a martial oath, which startled us women, that mustc was alone wanting to make it a feast worthy an emperor, and that deficiency he would take upon him to Supply. — The portico was instantly filled with hautboys, clarinets, and kettledrums— — wished for the fife, but did not let the vulgar wish escape me; — and " God Save the King, " Rule " Britannia," and manifold other loyal Songs tranfpierced the air :
Oh,. ’twas a feast to hear, and See!
as Giles says of his .mistress’s tinkling the keys of her harpsichord;; we were the wonder and the envy of the whole army.
Melvin must be conscious of Some hidden im persedlion, he has So mean an opinion of himself,
—
 ; Si
Self, — Lord Brazen pushed his stool in between Mrs. Mildmay and me, and very fairly left the other gentlemen to gallant the other ladies. — • Captain melvin’s head ached (I Suppose he intended I should fancy it was his heart); he could not eat — he could not Sing — he could not say anything to the purpose but watching his eyes, I at length frowned him into better manners, and better temper; — and he vouchsafed to give us that little doleful ballad of prior’s,
I
In vain you«tell your parting lover, c.'
and it being in unison with his -
ingsy heout did himself. He is a little Silly, I i. grant you; but he' is, my dear m.dam, a very ■ amiable fellow in the main,.
My father Avished to have it understood that ' the niusic was a frolic of my lord’s. — A General. Officer nasted by t r" You are a happy man,, " Mr. Rivers !"
"I HAVE the honour. Sir, ' of entertaining " Lord Brazen, and a party of ladies his relations, to whom, I am confident, youn com" pany would be highly acceptable."’
Lord Brazen Sat close.: it was impostible tci improve the present circle; every newcomer, of whatever rank, would therefore be deemed by him an intruder. The General just stepped in (how powerful is curiosity 1) drank a gl^ss of mrs. mddmay’s Champaign, as my father ar“ “it, " at whose house (he added) Lord " brazen’s friends were then on a visit," and retired; perceiving, I imagine, his presence was a restraint on our mirth, w: hich broke out with redoubled violence, if noise is mirth, from the little check it had met with.
d5 But

But how shall I tell you the conclusion? Lord Brazen, by his repeated toasls, which were circulated with great Spirit, was So wound up, that he took my father assde, and in round plain terms (ossered himself for his son-in-law.
My father was astonished!
"I KNEW I should Surprise you," Said he; " but your daughter’s beauty will atone my folly, in the opinion of the world; and you must not " refuse me your sanction."
My father paused.
"I AM, my Lord, one of those unfashiona v ble parents who can resolve to guide not con ** jirain their children’s inclinations. Efia has an humble, an unaspiring heart, and may not, ** perhaps, be properly sensible of the honour you do her."
"Then I have your consent," cried his Lordship exultingly, if lean win the lady ^ Pardon me the Seeming vanity, my dear Sir; " but I think I am too well acquainted with life and human nature to despair, unless I have a rival."
My father Solemnly engaged for me, that was not the cafe. — He wrung his hand in ecstasy: : then," cried he, " I am yours " to command. You shall Soon find I understand the Sex. Only oblige me So far as to give the hint to your daughter now on the Spot; — I mean the moment you can do it without being particular."
melvin’s fears pictured to him the bufiness of this t€te a. tete, and the eclat with which my Lord returned to the company, convinced him he was not mistaken. Sown I was not free from my Secret forebodings, and obeyed my father’s octo attend him with uncommon palpitations,
from
A N p V E L 83
from conceiving it would prove a critical audience.
He took me kindly by the hand, and Seated me on his military trunk. " My child," Said he, " it is necessary you Should be informed what has " pasted between me and Lord Brazen. He judges of your mind from the giddy part of the " Sex he has been accustomed to converie with, " and is positive you cannot refute him. Mrs. -‘‘ mildmay’s lestpns must have left me nothing to Say on the Subject. The goodness of her " heart makes wealth appear destrable. She " knows the true use, and the true value of it; ** but, though I wish you to determine for your" Seif on every offer you may meet with, I must beg you will declare in. this nobleman’s favour " or disfavour if declare in his disfavour, you " must do it tenderly, politely, cautiousty. ^ — I " Seldom, Ella, wish to temporise; but Lorff " Brazen is a haughty rnan of fashion, and will " impatiently brook an asfront from people of ** our stamp; and your poor brother has too " much fire, to tolerate any man in insolence" " 1 hope, will be a, Sufficient rule for youf ** cpnduq:. — Yet a regard for your ease, and my " own honour, compels me to go deeper into " the matter. I have astured him your affections are wholly uningaged. Your behaviour, my dear, warrants that assurance. Can I fuppose you would deal so negledlfudy by me, " as to engage them without my knowledge? — " But, should any false delicacy, or false fearsj, ■fi. have Sealed your lips on that subjed, beware how a Secret of the kind transpires! — It may be " fatal to the (however worthy) poflestor of that " preference in your favour, this proud Soldier ** has stooped to Sue for. — » I trust my fame,
your
84
** your brother’s, your lover’s Safety, if you " have one, to your discretion. Make no reply, but compose yourself, and Speedily rejoin youi: friends. — You may revolve what 1 haveiaicl " to you at your leisure."
Such Helen was, and who could blame the boy,. That in So bright a flame consum’d his Troy
Here shall we have cutting of throats and pistol ings on my account, unhappy beauty that I am t • — But little does my dear father fuspedt, that Lord Brazen is apprised, from Mrs. mildmay’s own mouth, of the fortune she intends bestowing upon me; and that, instead of adoring my per scn, he is Seeking only to Set up his bauble of a title to Sale; or, in plain English, proclaiming, that if Mrs. Mildmay will make him master of her thousands, he will make mea Baroness— — am therefore, in every Sense of the word, his most obedient, most grateful, and most devoted humble Servant. — What a paltry 'feilow it is!
I HAD a fan in my pocket, and', without knowing what I did, took it out, and fanning myself for Some moments, before 1 recolledted my fa therms injun^ion of following him as soon as pos fible.
It is plain, melvin^s fidgetrngs and prancings to oblige me, has not escaped his observation : how' ' all is well sofar, if I can but keep him within tolerable boiunds. There is but one way, madam; and as we are allowed, in a true Christian Spirit, of two evils to choose the least; why, I must even promise my quarrelling, huffing Swain, that if he will fmonth his brow, and behave him. self handsomely, 1 whll be his, and only his,, wheti
cp port unity
/
fa
N O V E L S
opportunity serves as the innocent country girls Say, when they give theirconsent to be married.
When 1 could trust myself to obey my father’s orders, I came lorth from the little lumber tent, as itmav properly be called; and the first object my eyes Sought for was Melvin — the drooping, the deiponding, the down cast Melvin. — No Such objeot, 1 assure you, was to be met with; for my retiring having made a Sort of derangement he contrived with much dexterity to Shuffle himself next to Mrs. Miidmav, in whole ear he had been whifperin^ certain things, witn Such encouragement, that his whole countenance was lighted up into Smiles and dimples; — I protest I did not know the man. — in a word, my Sweet girl, perceiving clearly .wdiat Brazen was about, he tampered with my benefa£tress on the instant, and obtained an appointment for the purpose; not merely of further explanation, but to receive me as a deed of gift at hi t hands, — on condition that he waited till she could Settle things with my father, — though at the distance of twelve tedious months. — Accordingly we had him over at mildmay tlall early pext morning, when the ceremony of bestowing me was performed, in a Serious, though uncano nical manner; and now we live as happily, together or asunder, as the d ivislong.
It was a justifiable manoeuvre, and has proved Successful. Fie knew he had no chance with my father, so resolved to Shoot flying with respect to my protedfrefs; and means to Set up her previoujly granted approbation to my lord’s injidi aujly Solicited interest with Mr. Rivers, who, in faot, had long before consigned his authority to that fair, gracious, and distinguishing lady.
Lord Brazen — for your Lords do as they. please all the world over — attended us to the ex
treimty
86
tremity of the Heath, roaring catches and glees; when we Separated, and, with our Servants armed with blunderbustes, made all possible haste to the Hall.
The ladles profested themselves infinitely obliged by the entertainment they had received, and invited and re invited us to their houses in London; — “not forgetting the Cadet," Said miss Brazen, ^lom, it Seems, She had beheld. with very favourable, not to Say admiring eyes. — - A lord’s Sister, madam! — It is enough to turn hi? little head I — rthey departed — never more, I hope, to trouble us with their company.
, You See, let who will meet, or who will bid adieu, the whole bufiness of life is love. — Love at cross purposes is, < however, a dangerous game. — Heaven send I may play my way well through, that I may never be reduced to the Sad necesstty of subscribing myself
V
Your Sorrowful
Ella Rivers!
a
LETS

%
A N O V E L Bf
LETTER XIII
ye have had terrible confusion i — Lord Brazen, to prove his great regard for cur family. Solicited and obtained a Pair of Colours for Ferdinand, in a regiment, ray dear madam, he well knew would be ordered abroad at the breaking up of the campaign.
I WAS Seized with a trembling fit r — ferdinand’s face was flushed into a deep Scarlet — Mrs. Mildway entered her protest against his acceptance of it — and Lydia burst into tears. My father begged leave to Speak a few words to my Lord in private, and they retired into the lumber tent together.
Melvin was at the door of the marquee, receiving the parole from his Sergeant. — He now joined us. Mrs. Mildmay declared she would never forgive my father, if he consented to Sacrifice his Son before his time — that was her expression" " you are both obliged to go," Said she, " your friends must Submit; but I know this " busy Lord is laying a trap for the life of a man, " who, who, his conscious demerit tells him, " must despise him; and though, in general instances, I am no abettor of disobedience, I " will on this ground Spend half my fortune to " Support Ferdinand in an opposition that is but " another name for self-preservation."
Melvin embraced his Ferdinand, as he called him, with the most cordial affection: : — " " are brothers," Said he, " and ought to have " one common interest : you shall, therefore, " either stay at home and share my pprse, or I " will go abroad, and share your dangers. — My Ella would contemn me, if I could think of
Urn ^ ' r
happiness.
88
J ■.
V
"happiness, whilst her heart, and the hearts of ** all thole she loves, were tortured on your account."
"You are a noble fellow," cried Mrs. Mildmay, " and richly deserve my girl, good as she “is— — reached out my hand, not constdering the impropriety, and let him kits it five several times in the face of the whole company — once for me, once for Mrs. Mildmay; - once for Lvdia, and twice for your fair ftlf; — and he was prouder of that honour, than he would have been in obtaining a truncheon — But you ought not to laugh at him, as you know what it is to love.
My father and Lord Brazen joined us; the former looking a little embarrafsed, the latter mt
a//piqued. He played with Mrs. mildmay’s glove, hummed a tune, told me I was handiomer than an angel, invited himself to dine at the Hall the next day, and bowing affeotedly, wished us a good morning.
Mrs. Mildmay, I could perceive, expected mv faiher to communicate. My father had no such intention. — I was Sorry for it : he is, the clo sest man alive, where intelligence would pain you; the total reverse, where it will give pleasure"
"THINK my Lord Brazen very presuming," Said Mrs. Mildmay. — " Sure, you have " friends of longer standing than he ?"
** He is a Lord," Said I.
My stther Smiled.
"My Sex," rejoined Mrs. Mildmay, are .a
proverb for curiosity; — will you then excuse" " is I confess an impertinent desire to know " what has pasted between you and that great ** bufy body ?"
"We
A N O V E L 89
"We have been disputing, madam," Said my father, " on the etiquette of conferring and receiving favours; — I insisting upon it, the ma, licious world will Say, he bought my daugh ter’s affefiuons by providing for her relations beforehand;; he affirming, that when ** once matrimony is en trains there can be no " impropriety in a man’s displaying his friendship, how, or in whatever he pleases."
"A VAST at of friendship," Said Mrs. Mildmay, " to want you to transport your Son for a " Pair of Colours; I would undertake to procure " him much more than that in England, if it was " not from the fear of wounding your independent Spirit."
"Or j," Said Melvin.
^ ■, J
My father looked grave.
"My dear Sir," added he, you cannot ^ charge me with even an attempt to affront you yet. I have been proud, and ever shall, tc>
** Subscribe and feel myself the obliged party."
"Alas I my father," Said the gentle Lydia,
** — Spare yourself and us as much as postible. If " we must be unhappy, let us Suffer together.
"We are now collected, as.it were, under your " wing. You bend ferdinand’s mind at youf will : — not the osier is more obedient."
My father was hurt.
"If lam tenacious of his honour rather than ** his happiness, it is because I know his happi, " ness is alone dependent on his honour."
"Say, Ferdinand, by your tenderest hopes,
** did you ever wish they should experience a separation?" ?"
d I a wept.
"I DID not mean, !" resumed my father, to ** strike hard on your too cjuick Sensibility: :.
- my
% '• *■
90 COXHEATH;
"my love, I have nothing to preserve, but the " ho7tour of my children: — I had nothing else to bestow upon them. It is a precious gift, and "• must be diligently watched over. An error, ** an accident loses it for ever. Thus far, I flatter myself, I have advanced in life unwounded ‘‘ in that Sacred, that vital part; but I am unfortunately drawn into a Situation, that none but " myself can Save me harmless in, or extricate me from. — W hen the lucky moment arrives — • I beg Mrs. mildmay’s pardon for this Seeming rebuke of her friendly interference; but I " trust she will believe me, when I declare, I “hope the time is not far distant, when I shall “be able to give her such an eclaircissement as will incline her to approve the conduct she may ** now condemn; especially when I tell her, by “the way, 'she can take no resolution for the ** advantage or felicity of my children, I shall be “f dissatisfied with, provided she acts in. defiance ** of, not in concert with, me : for I have bound rnyself," added he, shilling, to enter into, none ofcabals."
This foetus all at ease with ourselves and each other, nay, my dear benefasrefs tosfed up her head with unusual dignity; as whb should Say, " I " have now full power to do all the good I " please."
Would to Heaven she was my father’s wise, as well as my mother, by every liberal, every af fediionate tie!
Lord Brazen, I thank him, is at the bottom of all this. It is to him we are indebted for henceforth doing what is right in our own eyes : nay, it is in contemplation, to seem to have a family war on his account; or, more properly, a friendly one, as Mrs. Mildmay and my father
will
A NONE L 91
will be the opposing parties; and being told Brazen was to come to tea, it was fettled we Should begin to lay the foundation of our countermine.
My father acted sofar in concert with us, though unintentionally, that he Shut himself up in the lumber tent; and Mrs. Mildmay observed,
he was much changed of late, he was not the same man, nor could She think what was come to him."
Brazen has an admirable Swallow, when the dose is seasoned to his taste; So down it went. Melvin Sat and pick’d his fingers : my brother bet the devil’s tattoo;; Mrs. Mildmay, my Lord and I, were ail gaiety and conviviality.
The evening gun was fired; Mrs. Mildmay called for her coach, left her compliments for Mr. Rivers, regretted the loss of So agreeable a companion as Brazen, and we talked over the whole of my father’s behaviour in our way to the Hall.
Mrs. Mildmay, to Secure our happiness, was for making short work of it, and marrying Melvin and me diredtiy : that was the literal con strudlion, she Said, of my father’s words. But I am obliged to her; I do not choose to vow to love, honour, and obey, one man, whilst I can be adored by twenty; and, becoming a wife, make it my duty to be demure, constant, and the Lord knows what. — No, no; it is time enough to run my neck into the matrimonial noose at the end of the campaign.
Lydia is very busy writing — I conjecture to you — a full and true account, I Suppose, of the transactions' you are already acquainted with : she will, however, dip her pen in less lively colourings; and consequently, will present you with a new prospeft of them in shades. — I can foresee, that a few touches of the pathetic may be gracefully
L
9^ COX HE AT Hh
fully thrown in, though I must doubt of being excelled. My style of writing is calculated to rouse, not stupify the feelings.; and as I would prefer a living to a dead companion, So I would a merry to a dismal correspondent. — You have my leave, however, to make your preference; but keep it to yourself, if you are wise — for po sstively, if I find my talents or my complaisance underrated, I will renounce my pen and ink for ever. Adieu, then, description! — Adieu the tender passion!! — has no genius for the one, and is too powerfully enchained by the other, to venture to mention it. — You will Seldom find lel Sure, ability, and inclination, united in the Same person; though it happens to be the precise case with
■%
{
Your, &tc.
t
/
Ella Rivehs.
<
s
vt: : ■■■-.
f v fol
, Si
A'?
^ 'dri ’
■ 'isis
E' T
SV, S
nvtnca”
fx ■. ■ > zp^
F: : - J rirrra
A N O V E L gj
LETTER XIV
* ‘i
A dawn of hope my Soul revives,
and'banislies despair;
If yet my dearesl Damon lives,
Ye Gods, make him your care! *
ivydia has received letters from America, which inform her, That wilson the father made his escape from the russians who had Seized him, and intended to Sell him to the Cdnnibals, in afewhours after they had torn him from his house, chut that believing his Son dead, and his property on that part of the county gone from him and his heirs, until ait least a peace coukl be ef fe<ted between the Colonists and the English, he hired a guide, and threw himself into the arms of the congress, and now holds a constderable place under the Americans. That at length the news was brought him, his Son not only lived, but was fighting against the cause he had espoused. His indignation was excited; and taking it for granted, that his political principals must by that time be fixed and immoveable, he resolved to work by stratagem., rather than run the hazard of a refu sal, by asking him to come to him, or having violence repelled by violence. That accordingly he had fellows for many days on the Scout, before, they could accomplish their undertaking; — until an opportunity ossering, they threw themselves without noise between the litter in which my father was and him, and, as he was unprepared for defence, soon made him their prisoner, and bore himin triumph to their employer. — That young wilson Spurned at every osser made him by the
congress
%

congress, calling its members the abettors of rebellion, with many provoking, &rc. Nc. — which, as he wished, got him into close custody, and sheltered him fora time from his father’s Schemes. — That his father had had Sufficient interest, however, with his friends so procure his enlargement, and placed him under his immediate eye, apprehending he meant to elope; though, poor fellow! where could he go I He had no money, and was liable to be taken up and questioned, which ever way he advanced : but that having lost all patience at the treatment he received, he became So desperate at last, as to fly." — and there the thread of this damfel’s intelligence is lost.
It was, however, enough. — He lived I — The same Providence that had been, could still be his protestor. — She was quite, quite happy.
She recolledled the whole Scene of their first meeting; — bow lovely he looked even in death! but that
When he opened the daybreak of his beauteous eyes.
Heaven and Earth! — what exprestlons vere capable of painting her Surprise, her wonder, or her love!
In a few hours she began to droop the head. — Poor fellow I what must his fusferings have been, — 'and she, alas 1 the fatal cause; •; — was to re
^
join her he had quitted the roof of prosperity— — Saw him fainting with fatigue, with hunger. He was now sticed in pieces by the Indians; now thrown into a loathfonie. dungeon by his countrymen. — Ah! he was dead! — and had died unknowing how much ihe loved.
It was not, it Seems, to write to you, it was to read this precious packet her fair friend had
transmitted
  f5
transmitted her, that She retired So Secretly into the lumber tent: but She now found out it was reviving all her Sorrows, without affording her the Smallest consolation to Send her So broken. So impersedt an account; — it was a piece of cruel kindness; — and thus did her weak imagination convert what she had considered in the morning as a blessing, by noon into a Severe calamity.
After tea she changed again. There was infinite satisfaqiion in finding he had not lost his life by his affectionate attendance 6n her father. — He had Survived whole months, even the hard usage of being dragged away, of being Separated from her he loved. — It would not be a greater miracle, in her estimation, for him'to Survive all his misfortunes.
In the evening, this infinite fatisfa6tion was reduced to no satisfaction at all; nay, it was rather a double aggravation of her misery— — was now in England, far, far beyond his utmost reach; could prove no assistance to him; could not so much as extend her hand with the necessary sufs portto keep him from expiring by famine — by his wounds. — A flood of tears Somewhat relieved her, and she relblved, in pity to both me and herself, to forbear touching upon So painful. So melancholy a subject— — grieve to See her the prey of generous and unavailing grief; and you, I know, will give her a Sigh.
But you must also give me a hearty congratulation. — Lord Brazen is gone from the Heath. — A Majority was offered him in one of the regiments encamped on Warley Common, and he did not think it prudent to flight his good fortune : he therefore promised my father to claim his interposition So soon as they went into winter quarters,
and
ps
and bid us all adieu en militairie — to lose the remembrance of us in new Scenes.
Finding ourselves at ease, Melvin Introducec a country girl to me, whom her misties's hac Sent between two panniers of fruit to the Camp and who had lost her way, and with great Simp r ^ city besought hini to direct her to the tent Sin mentioned.
The poor pretty creature was So unfit for that place her inconsiderate mistress had Sent her to, that She entered at the first word, though She die not know who might be within, or whether there was any one besides the Captain, who was So Sair spoken, she Said, she could trust herself with him any wheres. It is astonishing to me that fear does not operate on these Simple, well-meaning, bul ■ uniformed minds, in the Tame manner that discretion or delicacy would on yours or mine.
Melvin purchased her whole cargo, of fruit. for seven and sixpence, and I began to question her, how it came to pals that she should be Sent on such an errand.
"An’ please you, madam," Said she, I am a
a poor fatherless. and motherless girl, and have " nothing elfe to depend upon but doing as L am " bidden for a livelihood. I lived with an honest " old Dame till last week, who had me from a " child, zz one may Say, and then thought myself " wellofsto fall into the bread I ha’ done.i didna’ " like, to be Sure, in one Sense to come to Camp, " though I longed deadly much to See it in another; and So, as all hands were aloft in the " field at harvest work, my Dame bid me take *‘.the old mare and bring the fruit; and I " wou’dna’fay her nay. I never harmed no one, " thought I, and what good will it do any one to
"harm me ?" (Melvin put his handkerchief to
his
A : N o V E L 97
his mouth, and pretended to cough) and Sol " shall go clear home again, without axing either ". this or that, now I had been So lucky to Sell " my fruit."
This, my dear madam, is a mere rofe*bud to farquhar’s country girl, — She was all pertness: this, all innocence. It wrung my heart to See her in so perilous a sttuation. Her dress was homely to a degree; but it was, nevertheless, discoverable that she was one of nature’s most finished productions her complexion, stereyes, her teeth — I gazed
upon her with wonder, pity, and admiration.
"My dear child," Said I, " you know not ** your danger."
"Anon!" cried this daughter of Simplicity.
Fly the Camp, as you would a precipice 1
— Have you never heard of bad men ?"
"false hearted lovers — she Said — there " was many and many a one in her neighbourhood; and it would melt one to hear how the " poor girls bemoaned themselves."
• *' .Had you nevera sweetheart?" ?" I.
• She blushed, and looked at Melvin; — then ' calling her eyes down, — " Never," she Said, but one.
** And is he," demanded I, an honest fellow
?"
"Honest as day, but he was poor. They had been about to put up the banns twice; but his mother each time Sell Sick; and So the money he had Saved to pay the parsbn, had been Spent on the do<5lors."
1
, She then got up, and wished herself at home; — " may hap Robin would think Some ill had befallen her, as he did not love the soldier men; though, .in her mind, they were very proper, civil men."
vol. I. E "Does
I
s? 8 e O H E A T H :
"Does Robin know you are come to th" " ?"
"Oh no; she durst not tell him; for h would have lost a whole day’s work to have cameo vttith her; and she would be off directly, for fear he should be uneasy at her stay."
"Well, my good girl," Said I, fear nothing. — I have a friend, the best woman in the world. — But perhaps you have heard of Mrs. Mildmay ?"
"Or she must have heard of nothing. Why, the very babes could lisp out madam mildraay’j name; for all their fathers and mothers, in turc had been indebted to her for bread."
Well, Mrs. Mildmay is the lady that shall " carry you home Safe from a Spot the most un fit, of all others, for So young and So well dis" pofed.agirl, to be cast upon; " foi bid her once more sit down, and rest contented.
My Sister talks of Savages, and the cruel outrages they commit on the peaceful inhabitants in America : but let me coolly ask you, my dear madam, what Savage natures those men must pos fess, who could betray to sin and Sorrow So amiable, so unsuspefting, so defenceless a creature as Peggy Winought? the name of this fortmatt fugitive. Gracious Providence! Had she not come direly in front of my father’s marquee; — had she not happened to arrive just at the lucky moment when the officers are dresiing, and the Soldiers cleaning their arms; — had she inquired either to the right or left; — or, in a word, of any other man than Melvin or Ferdinand (for I do believe they are incapable of violating the laws of humanity, however licentious they might prove in licentious Scenes); — she must have fallen a Sacrifice to the folly or the wickedness of the wo
•
A N O V E L 99
Ilian who could expose So fair a blostom to the rough blightings of vice. — But thrice happy was the minute of her introduction to me, and,! will never leave or forsake her, until she is Robin’#
wife. ■
Mrs. Mildmay did not call for me till it was folate, that I trembled for poor robin’s repose. jut when we arrived at a little farm house, at the top of the village where he lived, we found her mistress had been too artful to publish her indiscretion: : had amused the young man With a false account of the place she had Sent her to. Robin was, however, there at pur arrival, waiting the return of his mistress; and judge, if you can, his Surprise, when he Saw her descend from Mrs. mildmay’s coach, accompanied by Madam herself; and, to complete the matter, we followed her into the house.
The wretch, I thought, looked conscious; for she began to make Some lame apologies for sending Peg to the Camp; as that, " when it came to the upshot,, that either Peg or her must go, she was tempted to Save her old bones, and lay the burden upon young shoulders."
Mrs. Mildmay, however, gave her a lesson, which I fancy she will not forget in a hurry. Then asking the young fellow h iw he hoped to maintain a wife; heanswered, " That they must live as other poor volks don; but for the matter of that, he would be bold to Say,, where there Was love, there was everything."
"What if you was destitute," Said l^drs. Mildmay, " of bread? — Why, " man, there " is no existing without bread."
"Aye, and bread he would get, he’d be hound for it; — he was not afraid of laying his
E 2 shoulder
. ✓
L / \
\ ioty C O X H E A T H r
. ■ shoulder to the plough; and Providence was al
Sufficient."
Finding it to no purpose to talk reason to j young Sellow, whole love made him htipe for mi raculous Support, she cut the matter short, am ■ came to business"
"is pity," Said she, you should not be en
couraged in your industry. If the young wo man is willing, she shall go home with me till she is married. I will Speak to my steward t( take you into constant employment inwhateve ’ you are most fit for; and when Peggy is you ** wise, she shall rear pigs for me, geese, anc ' ** perhaps have a cow under her care. — I hav( " many Such nurseries, for the benefit of m] " poor neighbours; nor shall she fail of her shan " in the distribution, if I find her kind to thi animals, and faithful to her trust. — We ought “at least, to make the lives of the poor creature • ** happy, that are to die for our food."
Robin could hear no more : ■ — he Snatched hi peggy’s hand, and down they" dropped on they knees — in mute eloquence. — Their gratitude, m] dear madam, was too big for utterance.
I C o UTD not. help lamenting to Mrs. Mildmay that there was nootherway of making Such a beau tiful girl happy, than by giving her to Such; clown: — but she assured me, she could discover under all the disadvantages of hard labour, anxiety, and coarse apparel, that nature, had beei nearly as liberal to him us to her. — " They hearts, moreover," Said she, " are united; ani " foul befall the man or woman that could at tempt to rend them asunder !" '
peggy’s eyes Swam in pleasure all the way 0 Mildmay hal!; and, as piety is the offspring o
uncorrupted nature, gave praise to Heaven fc
th
A N O V E L loi
the wonders it had, wrought in her favour : concluding with telling us, that Robin had Surely died, if he had never Seen her more.
Mrs. Mildmay, my dear Mrs. Mildmay, shall I ever look on your like? — Not I fear, oa ^ this Side mortality.
So leaving Peggy and Robin to the corrempla tion of their happy profpeh; s, and my benesadtress to the conscious delight of well doing .and well meriting, I will bring my letter to a concluston;
And only beg you to believe,
Thatd am, cella
Rivers
LETTER XV
I AM not worthy yotrr friendship,, your good, opinion. ^ferdinand, too, must renounce me; for, Ella, I have discovered that mine is an illiberal, an envious heart; — and that, instead of tender regret, I am angry with Providence, that you are not either detained on the barren Spot with rayself, or that I am not permitted to ramble all the world over with you. — I despise myself, and have no hope but. Sooner or later, to be despi t fed by you.
Do not trouble yourself, niy good girl, to write me.pidfures of your happiness; — to tell me that Ferdinand has the good Sense, the piety, toe
3 Submit
j02
Submit unrepining to the necesiities his Situation
; — that he still loves me. 1 merit not his
love; for; instead of rejoicing in his joy, 1 weep that he is not as miserable as myself; — yet, con tradislion as I am, should die if i heard he was unhappy.
But my Situation, Ella, is a melancholy one, — My harpsichord has lost its fine tone; nay, is discord to my ear. — ■ — Ferdinand is no more the objedtl exert my little talents to entertain. — Your ■ filler, fco^her Sorrows will have an end. The prospedi brightens on every eye but mine. — rl wake without a hope beyond dragging thro’ the day! and pass whole steepless hours, when all be sides meare at rest. — My father sees me the prey of discontent, but Sees it unpitying. When Ferdinand was here, did I droop the head? Had I a taste for Solitude 1 This, thisis to be rich! — How wise was that woman, who, to rebuke her huf band’s avarice, covered his table in a moment of hunger with gold. — Gold cannot purchase content : it cannot purchase friends : it cannot Silence the whisperings of an evil conscience : it cannot buy health, or prolong our days: but it can embitter the enjoyment of them .- — Heaven, in its wrath, as Some Poet tells us. Surely revealed the shining mischief— — is the box of Pandora; nay worse; for hope was retained in that. — Gold has jio hope for the wretched, but the hope of Tantalus. It promises what it never can perform, and tortures us with unavailing expectation.
I KNOW not what I write! — Ferdinand has obeyed the command of a stern father. 1 know he commanded him leave me; but if he has extorted ever so Solemn a promise from him not to write to me, he has not locked him up from the life of pen and ink. — The inclination, not the
powera
A N O V E L loj
power, is wanting, or he would have Said,
I am forbid to correspond with you; — place my sslence, therefore, to a just account. — My ' ** heart is with you, though my person is con" " to this dislant Spot— — for me, as I " will for you." No, no; not a word. — But I am Satisfied; yes, you may guess how 1 am Satisfied, by my complaining.
Lydia! — her filial piety ran away with her. — A fine excuse for broken friendsnip! — And as for you — you must not'be Separated from your dear Mrs. Mildmay. — ^1 am chagrined, mortified, unhappy; and was I to fill whole sheets of paper, it would be all to the Same doleful tune. — Think not so hardly of me,, however, I conjure you, as I do of myself. My reason knows * everything is right, though my petulance pronounces everything wrong. I long to see you, converse with you — Lydia or your brother — any one of you. — all of you. — Is this folly, frenzy? — — If foi fear it, is what will stick by me, mark my character, and govern my pen to the end of my life.
I am.
With the tenderest remembrances,,
4
Your, c.
LI C Fletcher.
.K. t..
f
e4 let
*
>
it
104 C O X H E A T H :
\
., X
LETTER XVI
t
Ah, cruel Heaven! that made no cure for love. ^
Y. ’ i ' ' -.
ouare troubled with the Spleen, rny dear girl; • — a lady like disease;; I would ^dvise you tc shak<* it off. — Ydu fancy yourself an unamiabh objedtyour next whim will be to fancy your self an inanimate one — * ’
i
r. J ■ ' »
i’d humour yo'ti, if you Was sick j ■
But not when you are splenetfcl ■ 0 "
ij i L i. ^ ■ ' ■; '
*• A • V •
That would be tb feddl your dlstertister, ahd.he' CO northeast acceftory to the fuspehsion of yout sine un dci Standing. Besides you Should recolleq: Ferdinau' left youi and he flatters himself he Shall find you, : beautiful young damsel. Will; ypu then'let she' wrote in your foreheadcc.<rburt a’prematuro of age — tinge every bbjeds' inthb fair (dreafi'osh will the gloom of your own mind — and, instead of eye that Sparkle intelligence, and which He was won ^ ■ to adore, present them to his view dimmed by tears or jaundiced by suspicion? — Fie i fie onst!
I
Oh be but yourself; and his homage'he’ll pay. And your empire is Solid and Sure.
Why, madam, we must bend with the occasion, if we would rise Superior to missortune; an work out our happiness, as we are commande to work out our Salvation, with fear and trera bling.
I COMMITTED your letter, the instant I rea it, to the flames there was no trusting to th
polsibilit;
A N O V E L 'ro
postibility of keeping it to one’s Self. Had Ferdinand Seen it, we had been all undone. Be thankful, then, it has fallen into prudent hands; and when the fit returns, do anything that’s lawful— — Every word bearscontagipn withit. Even
I am not proof against its force; and have been questioned three Several times, on falling into reveries, what can be the cause. I impute it to the Artillery, which have been firing their rounds today — to the heat — to everything — but the Spleen of my friend, communicated to me by her pen. Read this, and Spare me — Lydia — Ferdinand — ail your friends, in future; for I will keep no more of your pernicious Secrets.
But you always write much in the Same strain; from whence I pick out this mortification for my. vanity, viz. that you never sit down to write to me, but when you are in the dumps, or you don’t know; or are overrun; as in the last in r
stance of your kindness, with the vapours.
I WISH you was within hearing of the noise by which I am now nearly stunned., /your heart' bounds at the idea! Your heart is, then, a foolish, fluttering thing, and does not know when it is well. — Lydia is In Camp; — Lydia is furroundecl.
by beaux; -- -- Lydia is within the Sound of every
kind of martial music that can rouse the Soul, or enchant the ear; — yet Lydia weeps, laments,.,. Sighs; and though she brings abroad a tolerable face of contentment, it the veriest croaker in ex."n istence :
For not of themselves the gay beauties can please.j.;;. We only can taste when the heart is at ease.
My father. Since Lord brazen’s departure, hag unbosomed hinifelf. His Lordship fufpe£tedmei~
E 5 * via
io
\
t
vin was the favourite, and pointed him out for Such. Mr. Rivers knew of no Such thing,, and therefore disavowed it; — but the world, he tells us, is a malicious world, and he is well aware would impute an event of that kind to artifice and fineste; — a concerted Scheme between a needy man and a handsome girl, however the result of chance or destiny, — the vulgar epithet for whatever is unaccountable. To have refused a Lord, who condescended to honour him So far as to soli cit his alliance, would have been to draw the whole Nobility on his back, to punish his boidness and poverty of Spirit; — besides involving a deserv ing young Sellow (Melvin, my dear) and a beloved Son in a quarrel; a thirsting for blood, which he thought unjustifiable, and incompatible with humanity. — To stand on our defence, either. against an open or a private enemy, was, he'eon celved, a duty we ovved our God, our King,, and ourselves; but a Sanguinary temper was as hateful as it was diabolical.
To obviate all these alarming probabilities, and save the Camp from confusion, he had resplved on a conduct he Seldom stooped to, and was ill qualified to Support, though it was, in fat, nothing more than honeji diffitniilation, — and as a proof of the uprightness of that conduct, it had preserved peace and good harmony, at the same time that it had neither injured nor deceived any man; and he hoped and trusted Lord Brazen, fi om his removal, would be led to fofm new connexions, and forget the poor lieutenant’s daughter; to which we all audibly joined omr — Sobe it!
Mrs. Mildmay, imagining this to .be the good time, ventured to hint pretty plainly at Mela
N O V E L 107
vin’s favourable Sentiments of miss Ella. My father replied, " It was the too common constt" quence of young people’s being much together ** to Surprise him; but if we meant he should " believe his consent necessary to our happiness,. " we must not precipitate events, but leave them ** to their natural, their rational course. There " was one avenue not absolutely blocked up — an avenue of profpery for his children. — It pained " him most fensibly to give pain, and austerity ** was the very reverse of his character; uniess " when austerity was virtue. We were all young ** enough to wait a turn in our affairs, and not,
"by yielding to the dictates of a romantic imagination, wound a fond father in the tendered: ** part — his honour; and. furnish. bad men with a pretext for calumniating."
It was universaly agreed and. confessed, that He had a right to dispose of us; and that he had now offered glorious terms, which, .pn our duty, our respect.. gratitude, should be our rule of conduct." ‘ ^
I NEVER heard him Say so much in my life. — » P, overty, a Submistion to the hard lines of povertyj,, has heretofore been his perpetual theme to feed on hard meats, rather than let go our iiite -- grity; — and welcome every evil, provided dishonour was not in the catalogue. — — Now he bids us wait; — one avenue of prosperity i not absolutely shut against, us. Would to Heaven he * had condescended to be a little more explicit! — Prosperity to his, family was the word— — --
- -... — catch the Sound!.
Cordelia is a Queen I '
, " ' ' Flrdihand ^,.
los C O X H E A T H :
Ferdinand, your Ferdinand, has a chance to be lifted cut of his present obscurity — to have property — to Solicit your hand!
Oh for a music of fire!
then would I paint the change of Scene in proper colourings. — Here is a Specific for your ladyship’s Spleen — vapours — every mental disease I — What have you more to ask? — There is one posilble avenue to a reunion with your lover, your friends, on terms of that equality your heart has long given them; when the bright polish, as my father moult justly calls it, of his fame shall be restored, and Sir Ferdinand bid adieu to every unfriendly, every unfavourable opinion; when his afsedtion for his godson shall revive in its fullest force; when he shall recollect his infant endearments, his undiitembled regard for him; and taking the violence he has done his inclination into the account, in order to be uniformly faithful to thetrust. reposed in him, he will exult in his son-in-law, rmcl we shall all be happy.
I HUNG about my bcnefadtress’s neck when my. father left us ^melvin cut capers across the marquee — Ferdinand kissed off a falling tear from lydia’s cheek — Lydia, the only one, who must still despair— — there is, my dear madam, no Such thing as perfed biiss on earth : let us not, then, prepare disappointments for ourselves, by expecting impossibilities at the hands of Providence; I mean impostible in the chain of human affairs, in the economy of human existence; for, as Pope tells us,
Man never is, but always to be bless’d j
and
  IC
and we must be content to drink of the mingled cup. — Lydia, however, rejoices in the joy of her friends; and go thou and do Ukewife.
I am, dec.
Ella Rivers.
V
LETTER XVII
In folly’s cup still laughs the bubble joy 5 One prospeft lost, another still we gain.
And not a Vanity is given in vain.
REVELLING on revelling! — Now, my dear madam, now am I going to give cause for a new fit of the vapours, the Spleen, tze, chut not from the ignoble motives you imagine. — It is not our joy that excites your envy, as you call it, but your non participation of it that awakens your grief. Your too faithful and too busy memory connects the past with the present — a long, long line of bitter disappointments and cross incidents. Lest one Single grievance Should not Sufficiently touch your heart, you weep over all you have experienced, and thereby cherish cruel remembrances, the traces of which would otherwise wear out in your mind; and you would, if not a happy, be a contented being. — And So much by way of di * grestion.
Melvin
V no G O X H E A T H :
Melvin came to Mildmay hast yesterdaj morning with Ferdinand in his hand. — I could not divine what was in the wind; an East indiamar just arrived at Chatham had a very particular friend of his on board, and notiiing would Satisfy the gentleman but we must do his friend the honour to dine with him. — It would be high entertainment he was certain to miss Rivers, who had frequentst told him she had never Seen any larger vestel that a Bristol trader.
I ASKED for Lydia. — She chose to stay with hei father. — Poor, poor Lydia I — Mrs. Mildmay bid me dress, and kindly Said she liked the Scheme excessively. «
Ferdinand; being my brother, .could not, you knov/, gallant me; So I fell to melvin’s lot; anc. the hahdsbme widow had her handsome fellow aj well as I; shad she not, madam? — for Fbrdinana was he.
We Soon arrived; for I pafs over all the Smart,, things I Said on the way, not caring to. play tk egotist— — on iny honour I'was the w of the company; : — So that not being disposed to write ' dull things, I'omit th^'mention cf whatever fell from the.lips of my companions, including even my benefadtress. In my absence she may Itiine; but, pardon me, the brightest .star ioses its lustre when placed too near theyiifsh
v/hat. an istimense fabric is an East ihdia ship! - — •that drawing one up the fide in a chair is whimsical;; I vvas obliged to shut my eyes, or 1 should have betrayed my cowardice: but when once Safe on board,, 1’ was a.heroine.
The Captain received us with great poirteness, He is a man of breeding, of understanding, of learning — -- (I thought a sailor stuck to navigation) i but, take my word for it, he is not a man
A N O V E L m
of taste. -- Mrs. Mildway had all his devoirs, insomuch
that if Melvin had not been of the party, I should not have had a civil, I do not mean a com plaisant thing Said to me all the day; and I shall always love him for keeping me so opportunely in charity with myself.
The origin of shipbuilding vvas the Ark. Indeed, I wonder not lb astonishing an invention should not be human. Uninstrudted by the Divinity, my dear, who could have thought of sailing on the bosom of the deep? — I could be very moral, and very great on this Subject; but I check myscif, and return to the businefs of the day.
The state poom contained many curiostties in the painted glass, chinese wood, and China wares | and we were presented with a regale of Sweetmeats, and Some of the finest wines I ever drank.
We visited the storerooms— — a mine of treasures they are! I can now account for the dif tress and the exultation of those that lose, and those that win Such a prize at a period of national hostility.
Th e Captain paraded it from place to place, for his sweet widow’s amusement; and, on opening one little closet or cabin, I was struck in the most extraordinary manner by the pensive attitude, and elegant, though apparently neglected figure of a young man, who Suddenly withdrew, as not choosing to be an object of contemplation.
"What office," Said I, (as the inquisitive visitor" " that young fellow hold under youa " Captain F"
"is a passenger, madam.
N From the Indies ?" rejoined I,"
"The same, madam."
"He looks unhappy, — Did you observe him! ** Mrs. Mildmay i’n
'Hs
II'Z G O X H E A T H :
A‘ He is a /o'yrr perhaps 1" Saist Melvin. "•cruelly separated from the woman of his heart !" Said Ferdinand.
I PITY him Sincerely," Said Mrs. Miidmav, let his misfprtunes be what they may.. — The" " of Sorrow are Stronsf in his face — a Soft. " a Silent Sorrow; * — and I always lament forms do not admit me, on Such occasions, to inquire if I rwd be Serviceable."
"That is So like you !" cried my brother; " but I Should think Such benevolence as yours * might Sandtify every deed."
Here the conversation ended; for the noble Captain had taken the opportunity to slip away; and now rejoining us, conducted us to the balcony, where it was agreed we should pafs the intervening time to the dinner hour.
"I HAVE," Said the Captain as we took our seats, " been making interest with that young pastenger to give us his company; but he posi lively declines diiiing with us, — and I was glad to compound the matter by my acceptance of his promise to join us at tea."
We thanked him in very high terms for his polite attention to our little whims. — He replied, " the whims (as I was pleased to call them) of generous minds ought to be respected, and he had only done his duty"
I LOOKED full at him, and, upon my word, the mist being cleared before my eyes, I found him a very pretty fellow— — must know, this was the first compliment in which I had been included.
We dined; and if I was at a loss for fubjedt matter, what a field would that daily at of our lives furnish me with! — The number and elegance of the dishes— — arrangement — the loyal healths — choice of wines— — dessert
—
A N O V E L 113
♦
fert — the delicacies — she perfumes of the East — But I am reduced to no Such extremities, and "therefore Shall hasten into the balcony, to inhale the Soft western breezes which are now fanning that quarter octhe .Dip, drink rny coffee, and impatiently ekpe'dt the stranger’s visst.
gragio u s, as gentle stranger, ' he is here! — neatness irriprovos his figure Beybnd all imagination. — Melvin — who would not love the fellow? has Seated him by me; and I will So kindly chat to him, that all his cares shall at least be Suspended, ' if gratitude does not unlock; his heart.
‘ But I sho'uldstell you, the Captain was obliged 'to prafitish adittle finesse.to get liith amongst us.
.dis relations — only his relafiovis I — Would he not mix with the relations' of a mari he pro ‘" 'fested to esteem ?" ~., We therefore ^ndw/r’v each other, or exchafig’4 sh plain Yes ‘and No during the whole remaihher 6f the tini staid onshoard; ' ^ " ' ^ ‘
., I w ajs in great lippes we should have come te the shhoi^iedge of, who she ''Was, arid wherfce he came'"; for, as Yorick says, I vvahted the traces, from his Seeming worthiness, through. which my good wishes fnight reach Hifn, if I never Saw hina more : ' biit he Was.d folded up.in. reserve, where his own history was the questioh, ‘that We partecf, all unknowing, of each other, as we had mef, except the acquaintance of a few hours.'
Mrs. Mildmay, on our taking leave, Said, with the freedom of the relationship the Captain had given her, she should expe<5t to See hirh and his young friend at her house, under the condu6t of Mr Melvin. He only bowed, and the Captain shook his head, as much as to say, V That will be impossible !’*
I TOLD
114 C O X H EAT H:
I TOLD Lydia all I had heard and Seen, at rrij return; and dearly repented my communicativeness. — " Was I Sure it was an East — an eajl ln diaman f " 'Would to God it had been from the " western world !"' — I had touched the stringb] which hung all her Sorrows, and her poor wound ed. imagination was for converting Shadows int( substances;; if no youth could be unhappy, nt youth could be accomplished, no youth could bi amiable, but the youth she loved. — I borough Melvin, Mrs. Mildmay, my brother, to confirn the imposiibility it could be wilson; offered t go and ask him in so many terms who he was but she wept, and forbade me ever mentiomn, him more. I have, however, fettled it wit Melvin, that he shall place the matter beyond a doubt, by taking an opportunity of politely ac counting for his curiosity, to know whether h lias any pretensions to the name of wilson dr noi ‘ “And fot clbse my book on this fijbjcq:, for th
pfesent, - .... i
O u R sweet rofe bu.d (for she shall? hot she call Rose, thoughshast in ** farquhar’s vrawtas/r pet fonee by the whimsicality of my imagination) wj married this riiorning. — The following are beat tiful and liberal sentiments of gray’s Qountr churchyard, in his elegy I
Perhaps in this neglested Spot is laid
Some heart once pregnant with celeftlal fire $ Hands that the rod of Empire might have sway’d, Or wak’d to extasy the living Lyre;
and agreeable, at the Same time, to the ceconom. of humanity. — Philosophers, I mean such as ai not born away by the pride of letters, or the borrowed knowledge from their predecessors, coi
fc
A NO V EL. ns
fess that the human capacity is nearly the same in all; and that education does not create, it only finishes the great work. The lustre is inherent, however rough the Surface. I check myself a Second time; but the Specimen will give you to un. derstand how I could, if I was disposed, burst forth on this Subject in a blaze of morality.
Peggy and Robin (which is the point I would prove to you) are beings of a Superior order. Her tenderness for. him is pure as the love of angels, which I affirm to be innate delicacy; his attachment to her the most liberal that ever warmed a lover’s heart; for her happiness is evidently dearer to him than his own; which I do not hesitate to pronounce the most refined and exalted principles ' of friendship. — To church he has led her, a pa tern of neatness and Simplicity; and may every happy aufpice await their nuptials! — A little cottage, that Sovereigns might envy, is provided for them; and may each anniversary wedding day they commemorate, find them as amiable and as good as they have shown themselves this day of days I
\
And the lads tell the lasses, in hopes to prevail
they’re as constant as Colin that lives in the dale
And with their union I will conclude this my variegated epistle, consisting of joy and grief, hopes, and fears, wisdom and folly, friendship, love, and matrimony.
Yours,
LX ■ Ella riversj "
#
t
u6
LETTER XVIII
.Can there be Such, and have they peace of mind!
X HE poor fellows got together, the Lord knows how I on this Heath, for the national pro tedfion, instead of being put into full feed, as the Jockies phrase it, that they might perform wonders on the day of battle, are left a prey to harpy Agents; men who batten on the Spoils of wretchedness, and pals in the world for very clever fellows, from the Single merit of knowing how to accumulate.
Get money, my. Son, honestly if you can j But get money,
t ' ». ' ■
• ^ L - „ • y V. _. N ' ■. '
is., their istott®.o let them be banished the haunts of men! Tigers and wolves are far leis rapacious than they. — Hunger is a Severe taskmaster;; even urges to deeds of self dcstrufition; but your Government Contraftors are of So fa yage a, rjature; that they biiild themselves estates, and buy themselves names, by grinding the faces of sheir Species, and aggravating the hard lot of the lower ranks; on whose Snoulders they nevertheless lay all their burdens; by whose labours alone they are enabled to riottn luxury; and on v/hose arm, in an hour of need, they must rest for the protection of their ill-gotten property, their liberty, their lives. ^i feesmyself warm with my fubjest; but my horror, my indignation at their conduct is too big for words. I cannot characterise thehfi strong enough. — I cannot Sufficiently point the finger of Scorn against them; but
I herewith
A NOV E L tiy
I herewith Send you a Sample of the bread provided by them for the fubssftence of a Set of brave andhonest fellows, the flower four British youth — the bulwark of British Safety — the shield of your, of mine, of every inhabitant of this kingdom’s defence. — And oh that, as a punishment in Some degree adequate to their crimes, it was but in my power to keep them to Such hard meat for the ensuing three months 1 — How infinitely happy would Such power render me!
But is it not astonishing. Government does not interfere? An ample Sum is issued from our Treasury amply to provide food fit for men.
Look on the bread the Soldiery, now encamped to repel the inroads of the enemy, are required to eat, and tell me, would you give it to your hogs?
'— Mrs. Mildmay is, however, herself on this, as well as every other occasion; and Melvin proves hers a man of humanity : — heaven’s vicegerents here below! — and Heaven will be their bright, their glorious reward.
Melvin and Mrs. Mildmay are acquainted with Some of the first personages in the Camp; an honour my father and Lydia decline; but Dukes and duchestes are amiable and agreeable ' personages with me, when their minds do not disgrace their titles, or their fortunes permitted to rufl in their postesfion.
I AM to dine this day in a ducal pavilion. — But wherefore 1, of all my family? you will perhaps ask. — because, my dear madam, humility is their governing principle — sauciness mine — and every one in their humour, the tonne of the Camp.
I TOLD you there were Sergeant Kites enough in the field. — Making our polite tour the other morning (for you are Nobody, if you do not appear on horseback in the field at morning exercise),
1 perceived
iiz GOXHEATH:
I perceived a great fellow, at the head of a littl handful of new recruits, teaching them the use o their arms. We had Scarcely rode by, before clamour of voices induced us to turn our heads when we beheld a decent country woman, abou fifty years old, endeavouring to break from th hold of a countryman, her friend. — " I will ** come at him! — I will tear the fellow’s eye " out that trepanned him! " — Why, John At " kins, John Atkins, have you “no bowels t. *5 stand by and See your mother used thus ?”
Sergeant Kite was too much accustomc' to Such sights to be interrupted by them in hi duty. He commanded Away, and the young lad obeyed; nor could I distinguish which, of all th little group, was the good woman’s Son.
Melvin, who was of our party, made th Sergeant understand he wished him to desist exer. cifing : he accordingly, with all Suitable dignity bid them ground their firelocks. The country woman was now no longer to be kept withii 'bounds. She flew to her boy, bedewed him witl her tears, and all a mother’s anguish Seemed ti rend her heart. I felt myself much affected: : ture finds the way to nature’s feelings I advanced and begged leave to ask the poor woman a ques tion.
"He was the kindest fouled lad on earth, sh Said, fill the Devil, in a human shape, temptei him to stave his master and his mother to fight so: the King. She wished the King was there, sh would give him his own. A. parent was not jess £ parent, for being poor; and he had childrei enough to teach him to be soft natured to his fub jedis. — But she would uphold it, he knew nough of the doings of those listing feljows, who be witched young lads, and got them to buy a ret
coa
A K O V E t. h
ioat with the heart’s blopd of their mothers, whereof they ought to be hung up as high as ever .Daman was."
Melvin asked the sergeant how the matter was. — " Why," said Kite, ‘' putting himfels in attitude, " an’ please your Honour, the younglad " has good gentlemanlike blood in his veins, and " wished to Serve the King; whereupon I nailed him to his wish. Your Honour sees how I " am abused for so doing."
The good woman was for flying at Kite, as she declared it, to tear his eyes out, for the mofl bafeji and mofl deceivingejl fellow on earth. • — The youth was next called upon to Speak; and it appeared, that, like Captain Shandy, his heart had always flown out at the beating of a drum, from an impulse Heaven had implanted therein; that he had offered himself, as Kite represented, for a Soldier; and that if his mother would only be content, he should be quite happy.
‘ We rode back with her to my father’s marquee, and used every possible argument to reconcile her to her son’s conduct; but without effefif; until I happened to let drop, that I believe there would be no war at last. She looked upon me for a Second; then wiping her eyes Said, " god’s will be done! — It was, to be Sure, no great matter whether the boy was here, or whether he was there, provided there was no fighting : but to have him Smashed to pieces before the mouth of a cannon was grevious, and would as Surely be the death of her, as ever she was born."
We gave her a glass of generous wine, and an invitation to call upon us once a week. So long as we were in Camp. Melvin put half a crown in her hand, and directed her to her son’s tent, to convejse with him without restraint; but told her,
she
t
* ■ ' r ' SI

sh must be more of an engush woman than to trj to make a coward of him. — She curtssed at ever) word; blested our ladyships a thousand times foi our goodness to a poor body like she, that mighi have dropped down for want of refreshment before thou lands would have taken pity on. her, ai we had done; and Sfelt, myself quite as well Satisfied as if I had received the benediction of a Bishop. But though we thus contrived to cheai this honest creature’s Spirits, and reconcile her tc the absence of her child, the Sergeant, I could perceive, was as rant a Kite as ever bore a halberd. — W hen things come a cross one in the manner this did, it is impoffibie to deny them a hearing; otherwise I ask no questions, ffor conscience sake, lest I should be drurnmed off the Heath, foi % fomenter of discontent in the troops.
J KNOW not how my camp adventures may amuse you, ■ — but I can only write on what I am acquainted with • — As for the world, and all its vanities, its bustlings, its contentions, we disdainto think of it: our martial affairs and martial characters engross our whole attention; and So much do we feel our own consequence — we that have fathers, brothers, loyers in the fields — that we overlook what is called the civit part of Society, and deem them only fit for vegetation; though our tbp sails would be finely lowered, if the French durst attempt an invasion. — I fly the thought, and hasten to Subscribe myself
Yours, 3rc. •.
Ella Rivers.
- ■. 0
\-
/ ~
LET
A N O y E L tzt LETTER XIX
'• f J; V :
Reason thus with Life : If I do lose thee.
i’d lose a thing which none but fools.would keep.
I N short, my dear madam, you now iliave me almost as Splenetic as your Sweet Self. The lights and shades of existence, when a tolerable balance is preserved between them, have a fine and beautiful effect;; when dark shadows alone are visible, not a gilded cloud left tochear the imagination, our Spirits droop — we lose our fast holds — we welcome dissolution.
Wilson is dead! — Poor Melvin was the messenger of the melancholy tidings, in consequence of the inquiry I put him upon making with the stranger.
. His friend indeed, the Captain, was gone to London, before he had an opportunity of revisiting Chatham, and the ship had proceeded up the River, with the stranger on board: but On men -- tioning the affair to another friend of his who lately come over from the American continent, he was informed that soon after the poor unfortunate. wilson’s elopement from his father, he was taken by a party of Indians in friendship with the con grefs, who, in hopes of reward, brought his Scalp (I shudder to write it) as an evidence of his being stain; though they affirmed they would have taken him alive, if he had not resisted.'
N ow, then, all is at an end! and iiihy Lydia' cease to weep. Since she must weep in vain! — Uncertainty tortured, this news has stabbed her heart; but! hope the wound will not be mortal. vol. I. F Had.
*
t
i zzi cox H E' A T H :
Had he been a husband, the most tender and amiable of husbands, she musi have resigned him. I am, my dear, for sticking comfort even out of misfortune. She is no longer a widow bewitched; and who’knows' what time may do towards bending her mind favourably,, where some other man of merit is concerned?
Death is, however, at present the dreary ob je; Oti which her thoughts are fixed.
To die is landing on Some peaceful shore, >
Where never biliows beat, or tempests roar; t - e’er well we feel the friendly stroke — ’tis o’er, j
eases the Lover, Sets the Captive free,.
. And, though a tyrant, offers Liberty.
The heart, on Some occasions, must be left to itself, and can best work out its own cure. To soothe in the first paroxysms of grief;, is to oppose the discharge of the weight under which we arc Sinking: great judgement, therefore, as well as great tenderness, is necessary in the exercise of the condoling art; to take our Sorrows at their ebb, to Suit the constitutional humour of the patient, and know how to be Silent when the flood re turps again.,,
You know not what a complete mistress I am of this art; and my Lydia Shall reap the benefit of it. She is now sitting in the lumber tent, in all the luxury of Solitude and tears. I will drop in upon her, as by accident; Seem ready to retire, if She does not wish me to stay; follow her lead, on whatever Subject she may start j weep with her till'she, for my Sake, defists weeping; show her how much my health and happiness is in her hands — a generous mind will go great lengths
to
'M ' .DO Y t t. t25
•V
16 n?rvst a ffidnd I — and thiis will I steal her froqi herself, until She may be trusted with the Secret motives of my conduct: : — tax her gratitude, but incite her tb finish the worklhavebegun, by showing h%fshfer own ipower, if she will but ex ert it.,..,
'■ ‘wir^t a' chksh sh Is tn hushan events I — y To think that our voins: pn board an Incfiaman should lead'to thb rrhpbrfdfit discovery;; from the East we should learn (as it were) intelligence from the West; I — Poor Willou I his Tate was aft untimely one.! — Yotith, beauty, valour, virtue, all levesled 'at a, stroke! — Death nriakes no distinction; will not fuspehd his fatal dart,, be the'psead* in^lahbrcible as they may S., L A -
• — * ■ it.. ' -« ■. • <
.. : ^ ■ • ■. r ■ te C' ' "
hears the liawk, when Philomela Sings;
• *
is the grand enemy of our nature; and in wh^t stage'of our existence is it' that we can c^u.oul selves Secure frpm his attacks L He humstlessthc pride of prosperity, and lays the hopes, of tste aixy^ bitiou^ in the dtist. — But pefliaps you wifi ..tell thaf though this may be veryy«(?twritihg. It is nq^ thing elffe; and that you wish me tp stick to biifi^ iiess, or history.
But Soft, if you please,, dearest ma43: itl; I i — I am ho fabulist. — The age of chivalry anstltlie reigrt' of giants is at ari end. Lash a mere stiatterr ®sta€t womari : but if fjffiori is ydur. taste, yyqu
shall find rne a geriiusl nou' seshindcshe oymy enga'geshent at a ducal sharquee — I ash your stiqst humble Servant, arid ash now Setting shy Self in array to give ymi your desifed satisfaction.. ’ >> ‘peris^^^^^ 6r qshality, as they arcaf’the friji of e\sbvy tsh^ig ist' stte^s, in fashionable knbwf
sh Wsteh'shey happen to be per
F 2 Sons
124
', < .i ■.
Sons of good nature and good understanding, th ejtces all others in good breeding; at least tl douceurs of behaviour, which in them are So mai condescenstons, are So engaging.. So winning, th they may command the assedions of all wl know them. .....,
A YOUNG Duchess, whose motto is.suppof tube,. '
youth’s the seasbn made for joy,
has a heart, nevertheless, formed for every Soc enjoyment. She no Sooner understood who I wj than approaching me with an air of long acquai tance. She told me she constdered me as the Si woman in the company.; — - " Not, fair lady continued she, ** frohi any merit of your own' " for that rhust be a future constderation — 1: " from being the datighter of the most expe enced Officer in the field; and did I post any court interest, I would Soon Speak h ** into the rank he is entitled to."
I WAS Softened.; it was a tender string; bu was, at the Same time delighted. No flatte toiild have been So irifinuating, no incense me grateful; and I own, 1 became ambitious for humble share in her good opinion.
, some time after, having gazed on me fdw moments,; with the greatest good-humour lier face, — " I Suppose," Said she, " you wot have us look upon your mode of dresting at token of your huhaillty; but the deception V hot pafs : it is elegance, calculated
put the labours of the toilette out of counte
ance. — What Say you, my Lord, (turning
** Si man'of fashion who sat next sherl to bri
a Bill into your Honourable house, for all y 'hienib follow, her e.x'^mpfe 1; don’t you th:
'-1 4* • ■, I
A N O V F L ‘ 1%^
"the fubsic (the wiser part, of it I mean) wquld^ " be vastly obliged to you?"
Melvin was in Such raptures on the occasson,. tkarrexpehed hini to dance a"hornpipe, >,
.during*pur dinner, which was Splendid, and,, for the honour of the donor be it mentioned, the? remnants of which were given to the poor men who happened to be on duty, we had the finest concert of rnartial' m'usicl ever heard performed in my life; the tunes weife'so happily chosen, the variations So ‘beautiful and the whole So exquisitly. eixecuted : but it was winding’up the Soul to the, litrnost pitch' of rational delight; it was touching, the highest Icey'f note of harrnony; it was — I verily believe, what 1 Shall never taste again; nor can I wonder
IO. :. '
The world’s Victor stood Subdued by Sound, ai shp farhous Alexandrian feast; a feast of im
iportal memory,,. -?.,
Toasts were then given; amongst the number of which, a fluttering little damsel gave Lord' Brazen; So that even lord Brazen, my dear, has his admirers. Who shall then be So finfulastodef patr?., ^ ^ •.. i,
melvin’s niind' was So Sweetly attuned by the honpurs and distinftions paid to his fair mif tress, that he Sung like a nightiiigale, at the first word. To Say the truth, I never Saw hirn such gbod cbmpahy; and' it is Saf from a disagreeable circumstance to have a man improve bn acquaintance.
V f
Mrs. Mildmay'gave thi whole group an invitation to her house, which was accepted, to an! individual : we have not, therefore, parted like men without hope of feeing each other more,
'' F 3 Melvin,
126 CP X H e A X H:
•<
Melvin, a Silly fellow 1 will needs be his feas too; So that we have the prospedt of eating ani drjnking from one end of she Camp to the other but we have nothing efse to do, and little, else ti tstmk of, but passtng tiitie aslrierrilv off our hand rfs poliidre, and leave the events of rutunty intlv lia% ofprovidence: - V
« In rhixed cofhpany, you and I shave often ob
Served it, there occurs frhall matters for the exercise of; the finer feelings. — Art, much father thai Nature, tjiktes the load. “‘, The wit ‘is .little betfe than polite Snip Snap; " 4nd‘rhfe whole cohyeffatioi a" mediey of fashvonabli^, ch'st cliat; and' Ishavi reason to believe, ^ tlie‘ hi^aer we go iij lifei. th’ more'the obfe'rvatibsti^llchotd good.
‘ Ma stte pfeasans thlh^c'werldeftdinlv hi( 6l in the course of the day I am describing; "biit shei they «jre, in tfe, Into
fion, 'I grant yoii;) an f am nbl fulliciently del
‘ terojus to Jbe able to lieparate thp* ore from .tlr
dishfe.
ground I am born to Shine upon — adydii lidm
L 'y>t.4 Vllr 7 r UT ‘ fi
ppers, and peers'mow you — -1 jhasl reaye the Hoy fid, ''the What to Your t)wri'’'ima&idafiob; onh datming an exception in my duchess s favour
whose'dvery dmsie" had meahitv^'s' bad'shlst'in^ioi in it, .and every, word bespoke the .woman of bieeci ihg a: nd Sensibility ■ " S'/ as J,, S, "'’t'a'ke nbtick fhsh is one of shy labbiirodshpif ties. — Simplicity is my jorie — naime my dai[linj original; dome the jhstice to, allow she, '‘at|ejasf to be a very tolerable copyist.
r.. ' ■ 7, -^ 'f.
■! ‘ \ ' 'ff J - ■■; 1 ' ■ r
I 1 i ‘ ir ' -, f t V •. ' - ■
Ella Rivers!
.. ' ” h E T
A NOV E L 127
LET E R XX
— — — — — Take physic, Pomp;
expose thy self to Seel what wretches feel.
That thou may’st Shake the Superflux to them,
. And Show the Gods more just.
€
Numbers of the poor men are 11!! • — Ob,
my dear, had you once Seen the inside of a military hospital, as I have Seen it, how would you join with me in execrating the wretches who mul -- tiply misfortune on misfortune by thest crpel rapine! ’
Hospitals, I gr^int you, are necessary, are shappy receptacles for the sick;; the Surgeons tdow in camp with us want neither Skill or huma ^lity; but custom hardens, (the heart, nurses grow jmercenary, the drooping head wants its Smoothed •pillpw, the parched lips refreshing moisture oft ner, 'much ostener in hospitals, than imany earsh ly sttuation; besides all wh'tch, there are such ■idlings as pupils, butcherlng aifikanti, vyho
.can cut and hack their Species only to try experiments;; if there is one infernal punishment worse than another, it will Surely fall on their heads.
Mrs. Mildmay has made them a presentms a ventilator of a new construdtion, and we went to See it worked. She, moreover, has got leave to put two women in at her own expense, v^ho are Supplied with a certain quantity of broth each Succeeding day from the Hall, to be given indiscriminately to those who can eat. But the hospital, dreadful as it now appears to me,, is So
F 4 vereignty.j.
128  .
vcreignly, I am told, to what a change of Seafo? will render it; when whole companies of pooi fellows will be attacked with the usual disorder of a camp — fevers, sore throats, agues, with many melancholy, cc.
But Surely, at the present critical time, whei men are So hard to be got, the Governrneht will lake care of those already entered into their fer vice, and Suffer the poor fellows to go into win ter quarters, before it becomes dangerous, not f ifay fatal, tb steep in the open air as it were : so the damps penetrate every crevice of the tents and the cloth awnings are a poor defence again! diseases, when the element is impregnated wit them, and we inhale them with every breath w draw.
, t
'These are hiatters, however, that strike nt ■upon the minds of the Spectators, who look upo a Camp as children do upon a raree fhow — amo ‘pleafureable Scene; and think it a hardship so sta •at home in peace and plenty. — Such false jud^ ments do common minds form on most publi occastons!
• ' news “papers are,, moreover, calculated t •inflame the passions, and Seed the errors of a ranks of people. All is mirth and festivity! ni •ver once remembering, that that parade of Majefl hfelf often covers an aching heart; — that tl bustles of a Camp are a veil for its misery: : mustc is intended to shield the ear froi piercing groans in the day of battle. This, a ithis is the cikieane of existence; and happy ai they who live and die without detecting the cheai It is fatal, in Some cases, to push our enquiri too far; though it is difficult to draw the lini except by thole of stow feelings or constitution discretion— — hope I make myself understoo
whc
A N O V E L 12,
• •
when I reason thus profoundly; though, to confess the truth, I frequently puzzle myself.
Mrs. Mildmay is one of those quick Spirits who cannot stop to develop the arcana of life. Things, with her, are either right or wrong j; and She goes to the bottom of them at once. The oppressed must be relieved, the Sinking Supported, the hungry fed, and that on the instant : it' L ^ time enough afterwards, she infists upon it, to inquire into their merits. The good are retained on her list, and, having once tasted her bounty,. are understood to have claims to her further consideration.
The bad are made sensible they have robbed ' a worthier being of the benefits they have obtained; but that, as it is never too late to mend, they Shall not want any proper astlstance in the reformation of their manners, or adoption of industry. Hence it would be endless to tell you what an angol of peace, of repentance, oftav ing, and of rewarding, she is in Society;
Ferdinand has had another pair of Colours offered to him, but has again declined. He is resolved to Serve his Majesty, this campaign, a volunteer. He should rank too near a father he reveres, and perhaps wound him by the partial destiny of a young man, who, in his first campaign, could rise next in command to him who had Spent two thirds of his life in the field. — Generous Ferdinand 1 — But we dare not tell my father this, lest he should disapprove our eondudt. — May it provesh wholesome rebuke to those who. could neglect Such a man as poor Lieutenant Rivers.
I EXPECT this piece of news should be agreeable to you A soldier’s life is not', I can perceive, my brother’s choice; but he must quit it
F 5 with
c0 X H E A T H :
with honour. A period of peace will enable hirn. to start on what ground he pleases: he must not desert the Service in war, unless you wish him to be mat; ked down for a poltroon.
I d o think Lydia begins to be more resigned; but her father is now the whole world to her. She is his never-failing companion : let who V illmake parties, you leave her and find her at the paternal fide, and file Seems to have broke hands with the world.
f •• -
This is, however,, a good first step, a happy diversion of her. mind from its melancholy contemplations. Her father is a grave, not a dejected man; his conversation, though not laughable, is highly entertaining; he has all the softness of our Sex, with all the manliness of his own; and will insenfibly communicate lestons of fortitude and of resignation to her heart — blighted in her e; trliest bloom. But the differen.pe, I fear, is, that her heaven is not upon eauh, but in the bright manfipns of eternity, where Sorrow Shall be no more,, and patient Suffering receive its crown of glorious immortality.
If it were not for this alky, I cash foresee this headlong vivacity of mine should betray me into a million of little inconyenienoies; but when I feel any malicious or any giddy prppenfity stirring in, my bosom, I think of lydia’s Sorrows, and am regulated in an instant.
Melvin has had a fine time of it, on her account;; do you know, madam, I am naturally a coquet; that is, I love to put the liberality of the masculine heart to the test. — He is no liusbnnd for me, who could doubt either my prudence or my fiocerity in a Single j^nstance. jea iqusy 1, 5 t|io marsh of a mean, and a narrow Sou); b. ‘ ‘ V and.
: • C 11 -- *
A •
A NO V E L t31
and she who can be flattered, deserves to be enslaved by it; deserves to be led about in its chains,, like Bajazet in his cage, ind never Sleeping or waking, be able to withdraw herself from the eye of suspicion.
The man who, is capable of forming designs on a woman tor treating fiim like a friend, is a reptile, and should be Spurned accordingly. frank ness and levity are as opposite and as distinguishr able as the elements; and I pity — I recall that word — I despise the ignorant, the uninlo/med soul, which does not know them at first Sight on the Spot, and does not Square his conduct thereby: Ferdinand is quite a milksop!! — many lures as have been thrown out to him — So glaringly, So invitingly thrown out — he might Surely be allowed toamufe himself with saying Soft things at Such a distance without offence, one woiuld imagine, to your imperial Majesty. — But no’; ho moves along as if every thought of his heart was naked and open before you, and that he must blush to be detedied in this, or descend to equivocation to defend that, and preserve your good opi* nion. Hold him then for what he i s, the choicest, of all choice Swains, a miracle of constancy, a; - — But he is Ferdinand Rivers, and your most devoted Servant; and, should the avenue my father hints at be once happily opened, with phe pen of' a ready writer would he tell you as much; though he could not with more Sincerity than myself afi sure you of his unaltered and unalterable asse,, ion.:
Ella Rivers.
I
LET
i '   '!
LETTER XXI
ilvi Y father is grown quite gay; lets off hii his bofu mots, and appears to be the happiest man in the creation. He put Mrs. Mildmay into her coach last night with all the gallantry imaginable. — Was I general Officer, (said he) madam, I would tell you what pleasure your company " gives me; though, believe me, not a Gene
** could taste it more fenstbly than myself."
^ "It is the Camp air (Said Mrs. Mildmay,)
'** That is beginning to operate, my good Sir, on
"your Spirits. It always exhilirates mine, and ‘‘ That makes me your So frequent visttant. I will not alk you, therefore, to let us see you " at Mildmay hall !"
• The dear amiable woman could not conceal
I,. t
her feelings : it was, my Caroline, the only gallant thing he had ever Said to her stnce my mother’s death. " You can have no notion, Ella," said she, as we went home, " what an agreeable " fellow your father was in the days of his " youth; and had he been easy in his circum stances, I have often thought your mother *• would have been the most enviable woman " upon earth. — But did you observe the poor thing’s stroke of vivacity ?"..
"I DID, madam, and was agreeably surprised " at it."
"H ow it became him I — - — He looked for ** once. Ella, like himself! — He was exceed ingly handsome before he received all his ugly., V wounds,
'I ^
A N O V E L 353
wounds, and had his heart broke down by " distress and disappointments."
She Sighed, and pretended to see Somewhat worth her notice at her window; but she did not hide her sensibility from me, dexterous as she fancied she was at finesse— — wish, my father had her fortune. She should Soon be Mrs. Rivers, if my voice could make her So.
Melvin was asked the next day, if his friend’i vivacity was lost upon him. — It was. — She bid me repeat it. — I begged to be excused, as it was in much better hands. She blushed — hesitated — Honest Conscience, what blunders dost thou ber tray us into? - — but got it out at last. - — Melvin vowed abruptly, they would make the mosl amiable couple on earth. — I was frightened; but it was too pleasurable a fubje^, to allow her to ' take exceptions at trifles. She laughed it off extremely well, for a first attempt; and the ice once broke, I shall never be so abundantly troubled with my delicacies again, as I have been.
Lydia, Ferdinand, everyone was told of the poor lieutenant’s gaiete de ccsur, and every one wished it might continue.
But what is to be done? — Should I mention my Suspicions to my father, of the interest he holds in Mrs. mildmay’s affections, he would instantly shrink back into his reserve, and you know she cannot ask him. Well, let Nature do her own work, I Say; and Destiny weave, the necessary web. — I repeat it, if it is their destiny, they will come together at last. '
Next to my father, it is my opinion Melvin stands highest in her favour. — Melvin I — I Surprise you. — Why So, my dear madam? We do not all See with the Same eyes. — She confesses Ferdinand is a very pretty fellow but he wants
'animation
, 134 COXHEATH.:
animation; — and She has not the Same rea Son a yourself to be pleased with him on that account., I ADVISED Melvin, on our sirsl acquaintance. to carry his devoirs to my benesactrels; — but h was not ambitious, and choie to stop Short at lie humble friend. But I now find it would have bee to no purpose; for rivors is tiie man of men, II her estimation. — I, for my part, honour her sober taste; for were I not his child, I would tei you, I never Saw his Superior yet, and Seldom hi equaf Ferdinand, you may remember, is ver likjs hiro. -^ ash.ropes o, f Ferdinand; he had thi modesty,, tshe other day, to ask me to indulge hin wttsh a sight of youcletters' — They would amuf him, and he would guardthem as his dearest treasure " But, my dear Sir," (Said I) ** will that be *^ adtingthe part of a friend — nay, of a womai of honour — to betray a confidential correspondence So we Settled it, that I should ast your leave, and having no letters but doloroii! ones in rny hans, I hereby conjure you to write me Such a one as is fit to shshw a young fpldier anc a lover, at the distance of a hundred miles from his mistress.
Though, by the bye, I don’t like the request; and think I ought to acquaint my father with if, as it is an infringement of articles, an adl of indirect disobedience. Biit, as Mrs. Mildmay fays, it is the Camp air which affects, which Softens him; and he languishes to read you. Since he must not hear from you. Take notice, I shall impatiently expe^ your orders; for your ordera shall be my rule of conduct. Adieu,
enfant,
, Et croyez tnoi toujours
I Kotre tres caere
Ella Rivers.
LET
a n O V E L ^35,
r ^ * : ■ *
f
LETTER XXII
Adieu to gries, and jealous Sear,
Love an, d Hamiohy dwell here,!
‘ ... - ' ’ • T,
A. GRAND exercise brought us again to th Camp early yesterday morning. What a shothle Sight it was! Nor am [.clear which deseryed mpst. applause, .the Commanders or cprnmpn men: but tb do justice to both, they apipeared afl persedlys well dis'cipline'd, ansh no less able than shillijug tq, guard their Country from inyasipn.. '
We adjourned to my father’s tent, to breakr fast, where .Lydia wshited our arrival j foj .h would not be prevailed on to tak' an airing,, though rpy benefadtress, offered to go herself in she coach She had brought for her accomraoda, tiqn, and Send back our horses. The gentlemen fpoijj joined us., V
Mr. Rivers was as gallant as on our farting an evening or two ago, proper notice of which you received in my last; Said the Heath had done more towards the improvement of the ladies complexions, than all the imports from France in the last half century : he had not for many years beheld So many blooming cheeks. — " Nor is your countenance, madam," added he, addressing Mrs. Mildmay, " less indebted than your neighbours t 11 n d C i r s • Mildmay was his very
humble Servant.
"But, Captain Melvin, ” Said my father turning kindly towards him, " methinks we ‘f might have hoped for an iiivitatiqn to youj,
** tent before this tinje
"If
1!36
If I could have flattered myself," returned Melvin, " that Mr. Rivers would have done me " the honour — "
"This is a droll way, my young friend, of ", paying court to the ladies."
"My dear Sir," cried Melvin, there could "be no happiness without you. We have bul " one mind in this friendly circle, one Sentiment ** on that Subject
** me then," said my father, 1 " shall be pleased to attend you."
It is a fine thing," Said Mrs. Mildmayj ** to be a favourite! I have invited my old ac" quainfahce to Mildmay*hall for succestive ** months; yet has he never once condescended ** to take it in his route. We will not receive " hirh how, Ella, if he would offer to come tomorrow."
'"Tf I do not accept that challenge, madam, 1 ** am a Turk; and, my Lydia shall for once, be •* her father’s Second." '
Thus humourously did he make an engagement that delighted us all, — and will be the firsl poor Lydia has entered into Since her arrival al Camp. We shall fetch them ourselves in the rooming.
I BEGGED Mrs. Mildmay, as we returned home, to ride in front of the huts occupied by the women and children; — and we were infinitely entertained. A boy in petticoats — the lovliesi you can imagine, and clean as a Silver penny — ran out, and told one of the Servants, (a young lad) he would fight him, and tie one hand behind him. A e called him to us, and asked him what ho would be. " A Corporal, he replied, as his
.Daddy was. But Stop a moment, says he, and " you shall See me exercife.’*
Intc
A NOV E L
Into the hut he went, and returned onthein llant with a Small crab stiek; then with the most graceful air and martial deportment, he not only gave the word of command, but performed every manoeuvre of common exercise.
"You ought," Said Mrs. Mildmay, at lea ** be a Captain." 5
"Where is your mother ?" demanded I. • " Within, with the babes."
What! young babes?
** The old woman," he Said, " brooglit ** them to her \eflerday morning."
We will alight," Said my (and every body’s) benefa£lrefs, “and look at them." >
There She was — as neat as hands could make her — stretched out on a straw bed, but comfortably fortified with blankets, and two of thp Sweetest infants (boys) I ever beheld, in hef arms,
"Have you no one to take care of you Said Mrs. Mildmay. I
Her neighbours
V And what have you to fubsist upon?",
"water gruel."
She gave the little Soldier five shillings, and wtf departed. — " We will bring her Some better pro; « visions, Ella, in the morning." :
As we pasted on, a girl, about nineteen years old caught, and fixed our attention. She ha, 4 been led to the door of the hut, and was therp Seated for a little air. Sickness and Sorrow sat on her cheek
We asked her disorder.,
"She believed a consumption."
** How long had she been in cariip ** Nine weeks."
** Was she in health at her arrival there V
Tkars
A
13b C O X H E A T H :
Tear started.in her eyes. — " not Perse: : ■ ........
"Let me not pain you, ” Said Mrs. Mih may, " I only wish to kiiow how to be fervid i able to you."
She could, not contain herself, but wept bi terly. — *‘ ihavenot," Said she, "a friend on eartl ** n, or do I deserve one! — A father’s curse hanj ** over my head 1 — But it was, in Some degrei " his own faultthat I followed the poor fellow V am now with; for he turned me Out of door" ■" I would not promise not to think aster an acquaintance of many months and here I now am in the most forlorn of t ** eouditions."
'V Is he kind to you ?"
** He was kindness.itfel, f, she Said. But wh tcojild.a poor yoiing Sellow do? — Her appetite f troarse rneats was gone, and he had not 'wherewii Xo buy bctter. ~if she was once dead, it would I happy for him; it broke his heart to lee her dyir by inches." '
Ache you married Said Mrs. Mildmay She' shoolher head. — " 'Not in the Sight map," she replied, ^ So Soon as she could Speali but in the sight of God; and they neither shem wished for stetter luck than to be able have all things right between them."
"But you 'must get well," Said Mrs. Mil may, " or it will be to little purpose wheth< you are marriedor not as to this world."
"Ak, madam !" cried she, " au my distre " is to know how our. not being, married w " stand against me in the next."
Mrs., Mildmay told hery "God knew tl heart, and the upiightness of its intentions; sh it was certainly her duty to be married, if st
live
A N D y T T' w
lived; but if She died, earnestly intending it, she need not feav cohderhnation with Heaven; — for: Heaven always accepted the will to do good."
'ir she was Sure of that, it'would be more tha^ half her cure; but a Clergy rnan had tpid tier, she. Was a strumpet; and thasstrurnpets rnushnshstope, to enter info the kingdom of heayond’;
N Who was this rigid piece of divinity ?".
'" A DIGNIFIED gentleman, who had a liv r> irig in .Kent, and took frequent airings to the. Heath. The women laugthed at her, indeed, for. niinding him; but they were not dying, as she Was. besides, they Jiad learned not. to care about. eithpr their words cir bebayipur, and shockeclsher by their talk, wbenye^pr they came hear her."
"THIS is a Second Annetst," whisbere, divtrs»i Mildmay;; ‘‘ wish I could see her Subin." i..
, E young fellow, was, thsh
bing for the cbn.secj[uehce ppour vish.. i'p^rs dii^r hirn, and, shld drs. "^ildniays wsto'bshshra: corrie in, Wish shasgrapiops,
sets eyery fiesht at fase, and oncoufag^, .s though i^tr. most droopings of distresreci nature.
•V He was nipeteen also— — and i?tod ip she same parish vyith Annette, (.for sh Mrs.,, Mildmay f will have per•(^aile^s and/lpyed. fier frdni hisicra?
die. — Shei Wasshy ysh shoemaker S' but trade
bem^ very dead she was tempted to enlis}, shn hopes he should hayeigpt his Annette to marry him whilst his shpunty money lasted; for marriage Was a chargeable thiqg to the ppar. c an" nette was agreeable, and they put up sho banns accordingly J r — whep comes her fathor, «ggod on by her cruel step rnptlier (who was afrash she. should lose ster clrudge,) .anst Sbrbshj? sheijl in the
she? 0^ the'whp.le epngteg'^tip,
Hs?,
• VI

140 coxheatht
•; ■ f - > r ' ■ ' • ^
"He was at his wits end to loave Annette bef
•, •J t
hind I but it must Surely have been the case, if so be her father had not turned her out of doors,, in cine of his desperate pashons, forloving a Soldier :. and he got her in the mind to come to Camp = and if stieshad not fell Sick, no one would Have been, bappier than they.",
"My poor young thing !" Said Mrs. Mildmay, look upon me, and believe me your friend.. Annette wants nothing riiore than casq of mind,, " and comfortable food to faise fier. ' I have a ** woman in my parish who is a fender, -; good ** nurse: let her then come for, one. shphth,, and ** I will be bound for it, you" shstf rec^iyetier " hack Safe and Sound — arid yoiir lawful wife too; " without, costing you u stngle farthing."
-■" Can you be Such an angel of goodness I" eifted the voung fellow, blubbering with doubtful j6y.~" Can you have pity on us ?Wear not wicked, we areshnly poof. — Anheste, ' what say " you to her Ladyship? — Can we evor shank her ** bountiful goodness enough? — But she wants " no thanks; and God Will reward her." — Annette wiped her eyes t — " It was god’s Providence; and she would go wherever the Lady pleased, and do whatever she bid hef,; and Would never forget the manifold favour,"
’ A little garden chair was Sent over for her ill the afternoon; she was put in instant posteffion of her new lodging; and I doubt not in a Single week will be restored to health, now her consuming Sorrow is no more.
But what will the World say to all this? — A woman of honour, and purity, and character, and fortune, to interest herself in she affairs of a cpnfeff|pdly yi2//^rt girl; a girl living in the open fha^icc of Sin j declaredly loving her Seducer;
nay.
i
A N O V E L
may, charging herself with the largestishareipf th crime : for Seeing She was turned out of door
.she was resolved (She Said) he should be her only friend, and So went with him, after a little bog
But Mrs. Mildmay knows no distinction but shat of goodness in the individual., A Countess.. a bad heart, is, in jher estimation, a bad, a ..despicable woman; and innocence in a cottager has all the merit of innocence; nay, every de ^parture from the lino, in. the uninformed,
the unsuspe0: ing, the otherwise well intending young creature, has every allowance the nature of the cafe deraand^; thoughshe cannot find a Single excuse for the gallantry of the times, or allow a title or fortune to be a Sponge for vice in any one member of the community.
Annette, therefore, in her opinion, will be rmade a much honester woman, by being married to her Lubin, than all the A<ts of Parliament; can render those who, under their Sanfifion, violate the most Solemn of vows, and re approach the altar of the Deity to enter into new ones.
But I need not labour this point: you, as well as myself, know how to pity the errors we are capable of falling into; and, instead of claiming credit for not being contemptible, are amply Satisfied with the testimony of our own consciences. In Spite, however, of all the clamours of chastity, and the outcries of Superabundant nicety, Annette is now under our protection, and Shall be continued under our protection, until the wars are all over, and her Lubin can return to his oc cupation of a shoemaker, when we will fet him up, employ him, and recommend him to all our acquaintance. I adopt the royal style on all these occasions; but alas! the we must be resolved
into
C G: X H e'ait Hf r
►
into the for it is Mrs': mildmay’s jiurf<i thitt pay's for all' ' ' '
Mildmay desired a list might be made out of such women as had children in Camp, that she might occasionally Send a few gallons of milk aniongst them y and a loaf, perhaps, or two or three shoulders of vfeal, * if they could dress them.' i. Oi THEY coulid dress everything I They
shad pots; kettlds, and all convenifeheiea, if jt would pl&afe the Lord to Send them Some Such good vifluals: " and weeame away amidst' the huzzas of a little army of boys and girls from two to five yearlbldy who strained their innoceht throats, and' fpfea'd but their haiids in thankfust ness, as far as they could See us, — nor will she fail to fulfil the shvii^est'letter^ ^ her.prorhise tb them.
- ■ ' I am evier your
V / - ^ I '. ^. b - ' • ' ' ' •
.. ' t
Ftla rivi.r».
A ^
. * • X ET
^ ‘ - * ' - - » •
A N O V E L 143
t • '. ic

■ J
LETTER XXIIL
O UR guests are departed — my father, Lydia, Melvin, and Ferdinand — and never did I past a happier day I' — I knew the good-natured motive by which the gaiety of a certain gentldman was called forth.
"My Lydia will, I hope, soon follow her fa" " example," Said he at dinner. — " Her " grief cannot be more Severe, her loss greater, 0. " than he has Sustained. I am now; however,
"convinced, there is no life but ehearful life, and can only lament I did not make the disco" " earlier. No oiie Should have been cheer ‘ fuller than me! — An accident revealed the fe"
"to me; I have tasted its Sweets; and you " See, madam, (to Mrs. Mildmay) what a " change it has produced in me! How many years is it stnce you heard me stng^ Though ** chlof*s out of fashion— — I recoiled the ** number too well to give you the trouble of telling me; and, with your leave, will surprise" " children by a repetition of it on this occa" ston."
You have often, my dear madam, admired his voice in conversation; judge then, if youoan, how agreeably it must strike on the ear, when rau stcally exerted. I don’t remember I was ever better entertained, the novelty of the thing was so truly charming.
Melvin and Lydia (for I am not afraid of trusting him anywhere; or with any person) walk cd into the garden.
Thjst'
144,  ,
r 'A ■ .• if ■ ‘
%
** That poor, amiable girl," said my fa there, V asfedts me unspeakably! — The youth fh ** laments was worthy her utmost esteem, he ** highest friendship! — I loved him as if he hai ** been my own child! — but he must learn ti ** Submit our, will to the will of Providence! •f 1 have obligations, moreover, to her tender ** ness lean never forget. She has shared, sh ** has lightened every bui then Heaven has beei “pleased to lay on my shoulders; — can I there fore do less than strain a point for the raitiga ‘‘ tion of her Sorrows? — You will all, I am per ** fuaded, join me in Such a causc. We will raise her drooping Spirits, cheer her into re ** stgnation, and to Mrs. mildmay’s benevoleno " 1 shall be indebted no less for the Saving of thi V poor girl, than for the protection of Lila."
, They returned before any reply could h made to this, address, a little shower having ob liged them to defer their intention; and a nev subject was started, till we had finished our cof fee, when we went to the billiard room, and for a couple of hours;, a room that was neve prophaned by gambling, but is Sacred to innocen relaxation alone.
I SIN D my father could have married very ad vantageousty in Jamaica, both when a bachelor and stnce he has been a widower : but Mrs. Mild may fays" " was too proud to participate th' fortune even of a woman he must be sensible coul( not enjoy it without that participation. ~ Wha became of his good fenfe and generosity, on fuel occastons, she would not take upon her to Say."
"You altogether mistake my conduq:, ma "dam," replied my father: I have none o
that false pride in my composttion. I have fel f^’tiow love exalts its object. Had I postefsedi
"diadem
A MOVE L IS
diadem, I should have thought it misplaced on it .every head but my lydia’s; and believe she " had the Same feelings for me therefore, suppose of me as you please, I should with exuka" tion have consented to have been as much the obliged party in point of fortune, on my union " with that dear woman, as I was in every other ■' ** Superiority she bestowed upon me."
Mrs. Mildmay had pushed this Subject as Sar as it would go.
I WAS Seated at a window, which commanded a view of the front gate; about which 1 perceived Several persons gathered. — It was presently opened by the Porter, and I could distinguish, though at ^ a considerable distance, a man born by four others, as dying, or dead. It went to my heart to break in upon the Sunshine we enjoyed; but out of tenderness to the whole company, I bid them not to be surprised if they heard of an accident to some unfortunate stranger. — They allflew. to the window.
"Stranger I" exclaimed my benefa£trefs it is the worthiest poor fellow on earth, I see " by the deaths! It is lisimore, my stev/ard I " — my family regulator 1 — my humble friend!
I brought him with me from Jamaica; nor " could I have Sustained a greater loss. Yet,
"wretch that I am! what is the los's I shall sus ^
"to the distress a beloved wife and three Small children must be plunged into 1 He was the best husband and the best father living.’^
He was now brought to the house, and the gentlemen went to inquire into what could be done for him, and the nature of the hurt he had. received. He had been thrown from his horse, and his Scull was fradtured in two places. A Surgeon, knowing who he belonged to, had followed him. vol. I. G home;
I
14^ C O X H E A T FI :
home; but declared trepanning would torture. without being of the Smallest Service to him, fc ha the Could riot live above a few hours.
mpvs, Mildmay besought me to go to th Lodge, where the wife and children dwelled, as i ' a Second paradise; and in the most prepared man ner open the melancholy particulars to her.
You are, mv dear," Said she, " the onl friend I could trust on this occasion. — ^ Spar " me! — Oblige me, then, and prevent her hear ing the disastrous tale from any other quai V ter.'"
'You will do me tyre justice to believe, I com plied unhesitatingly with this, however disagree able; request; for it was a truly painful em bassy.
Two little girls, beautiful as cherubs, rant' meet me, calling out, " ivlamma,, miss River " is come L — won’t you be exceeding glad to fe ' "' Mils Rivers h’
I KISSED thern both, and confess to you,
'could not foi bear weeping, from the conscious nefs of their innocent error.
Mrs. Lisimofe appeared, leading her voting est child by the hand; for he is, my dear madam only fifteen months old; and Said many pretty ob liging things on the pleasure every Sigtit of m. gave her.
"I MUST beg leave, madam, to be Seated, be fore [ make any return to yoiftr politeness.
"I never Saw Mrs. lisimore before, bu with pleasure, 'and S really believe our senti"
"vvere reciprocal; bul now -- -- -- --
The bloom instantly Sorfook her cheeks, th >. obje^ nearest her heart being the first object C her care.
a " Heaven, '
A N O V E L 147
Heaven," cried she, ‘‘ avert every evil from the head of poor lisimore !"
I LOOKED down.
"1 READ all the meaning of the trouble yoa " have taken — your goodness My poor husband— — children !",
"For those dear, children’s Sake, madam, let " me beseech you to be comforted! — You are a
J
"woman of understanding, and know by how " piecarious a tenure what we call happiness is " held in this life! — Mr. lisimore deservedly postesred your tenderest affections, but think " how many hearts are rent at this time! — Every " foreign pacquet is fraught with death; a death " preceded by a thousand lad fatigues and difficulties. — What shall I Say to you, madam? —
"The Power that gives, has a right to take " away, and the great duty of a Christian is —
"Christian resia; nation." *■ f
"He is then dead 1" said she, vlth a compo sure that shocked me., ^
I SAW the Surgeon walking fast over the lawn; and it was Settled he Should follow me, the nio shent there was a change.
"I FEAR I have no hopes to give you," Said I; " but if you would prove to me you love Mis. ' " Mildmay — that her repose is of any consequence with you — or her future friendship de
Suable — you will content to be bled. — Here is
✓
•" a gentleman who can perform the Salutary " operation."
She wept bitterly — the tears of Silent anguish — and Sat down, unresistlng, to do as I desired.
I looked at the Surgeon, who Soon made me understand his patient was no more. ~ I persuaded her to go to bed, and offered to Sit by her.
G 2 J “Excuse
%
>•
14^ C Q X H Eat Hi.
"Excuse me, dearesl madam! I must b alone! — > It will be a relief to meto be alone’ ** I constrain myself now, because you are prc " present. Grief like mine Shuns every eye even the eye of goodness. Pity me — pareon m — and leave me! — consider, Mr. lisimore le: " me but a few hours ago in perfect health — h ‘‘ bade nie wait Supper for him : — our mea were all happy ones, — his good-humour, h " kindness made them happy ones : — I now Southeast " him no Snore! — Oh! there must be time ai " lowed to reconcile the mind to so cruel ** change !"»
The Servant was a good creature, and ei gauged to Sit, without her mistress’s knowledge, i the next room. So Soofi as I Sent a person to tai care of the chileren, I Saw her into bed; prevai od on her to drink a compostng draught the Su: geon happened to have in his pocket, and wi carrying to a neighbouring .patient, when the a( cident happened, and we left her to the luxury i farrow. .D;
My Father knew poor lisimore abroad, ar was much affedfed by his Sudden departure; m vertheles's, for' the lake of tbos'e he loved, he n tained a generous portion of his cheerfulness, ai invited us to breakfast with him en Camp the northeast morning.
"I HAVE never yet, Madam," Said he ' Mrs. Mildmay," done myielf the honour to ta! " an airing with you on the Heath. I accepti " your challenge to dine at Mildmay hall; 1 " me See, then, if you dare meet me on Co heath at Six o’clock tomorrow morning.
"corner of your coach will be a happy accoii " modation for aiman who caqnot boast of • much as a mule to arable forth upon. Sand
"Panel
A N O V E L 149
“Pancha like, to escort the ladies the fashionable round. How many times, pray, may " you have reviewed us thro’ ail our defiles? — " and wdiat report will you make of us to our " Sovereign ?" -
"A favourable one, I affure you. Sir replied Mrs. Mildmay., " You are a credit to " the nation; and So much faith have I in the " prowess of you all, that were I to hear "of am invasson tp morrow, I should fear only for the y personal Tafety of those who engage to repel " it, as the Successful contest is not without its V dangers."
Melvin kissed Mrs. milclmay’s hand, like sa well-bred cavalier; and Ferdinand and my father followed his e: Sample. She was, you know, madam, the queen of tlve.company. — Would I could pay my deyoirs to you in a fiistdax manner, instead of fish fbribipg myself..
■ C » ^ ' ■ X, V ‘ r. ■
■ ' ■ ■. ■ '; ■ ^ vv ' / ’ '. -- -0
■, • Your
■ ’ ’ : C .: C Ella Rivers,
■ A a far x •' - ■ ' ■ -■.
{
r:.
•. a
<
0 3 I. E IV
150 COXHEATH j
«
LETTER XXIV
P oor Llssmore is burled, and his wife anji children are now on their way to Devonstuie, where She has a stster married and Settled. Every • thing at Miidmay hall, She Said, would renew her grief : even the tender condescenston of fny benefadtrefs, the tender attentions I paid her were So many daggers to her heart She has left one little girl urister out Tare, which' we Shall bring up to be an fionour tptier, Sex, and a blef stng to i^ociety : -- for willshie hot have fny instructions, and Mrs. mildiiray’s exahiple, ' to form herself by? • ^
we gave the. poor Lieuteriaht his airingj’ 'eal our breakfast with'him with much fprigh'tlinessj and have enter changecf‘many polite "vistts with melvin’s acquaintance; but all these visits wer so much in the iikeness of what you have already received from me, that I shall only mention them in the gross, having Subjects in store that deserve a nev pen and a new epistle : So that, if you please, you may call this my shortest letter, as the only news it contains, is respefl; ing poor list more’s family; for it is Surely no news to tell you that L arh most astedtionately
Your, Ac.
I
Ella Rivers,
I
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
\
• - I
- - - t, -, C
■ ■. ' \ 'i.
C O XHE ath campr
A “
• ' /. ^ 'i
npisi O. V E, lt,
Jef AJ VOL. II 'B
■ - • '' -; ■ ^ ■ ■
^^^pn: S?ssg; ?$ L -: r: riyyr: a
V / - / “
-- r * '
V i vf;, '7 -; ^
; y; • " -, i -
■ S ■■ ' ■■ \ ' ..: L • -
^. _ ■; ■ L.;.; ■■ ■ ' y
TV ■-: N: N: /.; D 4. .' ■ ' sh
y v b., ' ■ ■■.; Tnc,;; Slt.:. ........ _ -_
■ -■^ " ' " ■■ ''■ ■ ii. ■ ' C - -
"■■• ^ ■ ■. ■ ■ ■", ‘
-•■ ■ '
- :.; : laa'aa r Ay: :
■' ■■' ■■ '..Ayr .• y
A. y ffia^^a^aa - ifr\mm'': vmr: ^ril ^ tn V T
avffii. X '■ ■ if ts|i
v''sdavw0tv
c onvn; C vat^fs^ VN : id.^^s^a
ma - Am \ dafdriia AA Afr §1
D ■ ./; ^ ^ ' ' te' ': 0
’A V : -. - ■'■ ^ VV*' ^ - =■ ■■ NC ■•■■ '■. ' - ■ - '- ' ',... ■ ■'■ •-*^
.x.'.\rfx .[Ayr..., A' ' ri.. r'': i: y^ffad..: /rix: : fyyi^.'a.. -■. _
fe'tr. ■ b', i l''s't'^ C; V ’■ ■ ^drt^a -\- ri r rf.ri: A: - : "y ■ / - ■'
-■ l^.j. V .'^: ‘'.i ‘ Tf v/■. “-•; ■ ’ " t L ■ '‘'.r'; .■■ iv" " ■ 'rad.' -- ya. ■ aa rr.
te’"'" ■" "■'’victete: te'y .■■■ l"te ■■ ■; ■■ ■/■ 'titeteis.
! ...■■'■■■ A'fr rif'aari'} i tarif' riaa°a: riri\a. ■ drri jte t ’- ■ *^'- ^’i t; Nc ■
'V : ■ ■": V ■' a vn' 'i ‘ ' av[d.i
'■■a. tete -- -' ■ ■ IVV ■■
'TV"'. i;.. »; : ip -- r'' '' '' ■- ■ ■ ’t'’;. ’'
.-. -. - -' ‘ .c" -■ • ■ ■■ - •L'»^‘*. -5; -, 't i.' >.' ■ '>, ' iixr^y r
■ e ■?. '.. ^.. ' V'
'■: ■ nte"c; L i. ' tevvyv ■*' ’ hs ■ S' ■ .'CV" "
: ...,.. .'■,; •, \, ■, -- ■■. ■■. ■ ■■ ' L 'a '■■'L r.xa •’"•
', : -■. -: '■ - - ■ -:, '. ' : r'xrjfxia"'
y.: y ■ - ' r ... '.: b '-■' i f: ■•■-: ■ ■■ ■; -^ ■,.. -. '.. L
COXHEATH camp;
A
N O V E L
t
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS.
by a lady.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
%
4
VOL. II
t
III I imit 1 ' I 1 ^ ^ O
%
U B L IN:
printst) for messis. Price, Whitestone, wilkijtsol't.jj Williams, Walker E. Cross, Jenkin, Sleate!^^. Mokcriette, W. Wilson, Burnett, Porter Exshaw, Beatty, Burtow, Higley^
nd Rf watson Nid cc»lxxix*
['ll
jit ■
id
» ■
: M
Tj
Of
V •••'.• *1.
it;. - rr ■. -
m' ' ’ ' .... -.
^. w ^ ■
ji
i i ' '
II < '. - -
* 1
i ' - ' • '
^ I. \
i i, /' i
III. •■' z,.
! - ^ - •
L
hp

flo VS S
!i ^ '-• •. ^ W' ' 0, :
i:!
r t
I ■. ^ " ■
Ijl
|; ' " *■ '•■ ^ -■ • ■ -- ..> f • ’ : '
'- .»
‘F:
.! i ■ ■ ‘
■; d; '. ■.
I': ^ '
II ’-.,
ir: ‘ r. ^
ssb J Fi'. '. ■■;
; •.
C
LI • i.'
)■ ’
f! '•;
hi‘. • •
C ■ •. ■ :..,
; •.. I " ■. -1
L L.. '
b; ' "■ " —, _ -; ^.... _
III ■ ■. ■
!:; ' ... - V,
i:; ■ '■*■ >■ *■ - - ■
j; ■ * ” ' ■ r' ■ ' V ■ ♦
*■:.. ■ - • ■ ^
te..
: te ■ ■ ■- ^ -
■ ■ ' ■ d. \ it. A - ■ • ■ ^
'I. .■'**/-• V!
■!

i *.,. '
. i..
■; ' .i '’tr. ' ‘ ''
is. ■ '
i!
'>
I;
■. Y •
j -.
^
I ■.
t. '
I '
( ■.
I ' ^.
I ' *. ■
'■ ■ ’
i te.,. •
1 -.,,
i f,, ' ■■' ^ -- ■ ' ■;....
✓ •■ •. ■ ' C • '; 0 f ^
!. ■ ' •. f" C o •’: ■ .» T ^ ^. ■
'■ ■ : ^ • ■. * ^ '
i ^ • b r - - Vi' ' ■.; ’ ... ■.
V * ^ ^. ' * - ' ^
■, - - ^ '. • 0 •• ■■■rj ■■.., - ■
i. ■ !'/'■>■'-.■.>■.:. -
W »wil»ii«iii»i«pwil IW ^ ||> ■■ ■ ■ II I ■■■ ■ ' nm n ■ mi II i^i»iii iii mt ■< w — iw wp'm
> ’ 1 S N' '

C O X H E A T H;
I
A NOV E L
r
/
V ' '.
LET E II J.
9
Seeking the bubble Reputation e’en In ihe cannon’s mouth.
. ...
X e's, my dearest'madim. Such is the fate, a, nd ' folly of file martial passion, that those who indulge it muss.either look danger boldly in the face, and meet their dissolution undismayed, or for/eit their honour and their life in the face of the whole ■ world.,
I HAVE already told you we have many Ser ieant Kites on the Heath, who, by the dint of low 'sinesfe and’an artful exercise of volubility, shave 'allured Swains from their Soft Arcadia into Scenes of warlike preparations; and who,, to complete the character of the Kites, have long Since dropped the Brother soldier, and assumed the stern Commander; whilst the toils of the field, together With The disappointment of their innocent
Nol. II ambition
«
1.56
ambition weighs dowshthe Spirits of the young recruits, who vainly Sigh for the felicity they have renounced, the pipe, the dance, the rural astem blies, the may day feast, the Sports of liberty, and the jbyvof peace.
One Such as I have described, but of first-rate perfection,, must, with your good leave, be the hero of this my epistle. His age is Scarcely
nineteen; ' -- as Smooth as hebe’s his unraxor’d
cheek'; — his figure (except where the high finish of education is the question) striking, admirable; __ — in a word, as my brother is distinguished throughout the Camp by the title of the h and xome Cadet, he is known in every quarter by that of the standfome Recruit.
But, alas I we are born with as different inclinations as extefibr distinctions. Heroes are much the Same, Says the Poet:
-- -- -- -- -- -- the point’s agreed,
From macedonia’s Madman to the Swede,
, j The Same strange purpose of their lives to find,
oi’make an enemy of all mankind. ^
it.. ^
., .i.
»
In like manner poets, priests, mechanics, philosophers, rustics, bring their peculiar propensity into the world with them, which not only grows with .their growth, and strengthens with their strength, but has all, the confirmation that cuf trm. Education,, and Example can giee it; and however this feature of the soul may Sometimes be mistaken, defaced, or mutilated, yet is it as im postible to rend it from the parent stock without destroying the mind, as it would be to demolish an eye without Spoiling the Sace : — So far does Nature triumph over Art, and defy all her works.
, The
  1^7
The .Dorilas I am Speaking of having never feon a red coat until the noble Seaieant Kite Set his foot in the village of his nativity, was captivated by the tout enfemhle of his appearance : — ^ the glittering halbeid, the gay cockade, the fife, the drum — his eye, his ear was equally enchanted; nor was it in the power of mortal youth tb hear the harangue beginning with, " All Gentlemen Volunteers" So rhetorically addressed to the Surrounding multitude, unmoved. — — —
"Gentlemen Volunteers," was a gilded'bait, and she poor gudgeons could do no lessthan bite; — ■ and wc all know that enlisting, like matrimony is not one of the jlip knots of Society.,
Behold him then entered inro his majesty*ig Service! The ensigns of his honourable estate in his hat, and his Royal master’s pidfure in. his pocket, he is led in triumph through the village to the house of rendezvcms, where loyal bumpers are circulated, and every human ear laid asteep, until — the mornings — when, waking from the dead stumbers of unac^ustohied inebriety, he finds he is no longer master of himserf. H is tender and aged mother rushcs into the roorti — his sweet heart Swoons away in his arms!
"Ah, unthinking and undone Dorilas I must " we never See you more? — You, that was the " pride and the joy of your fond mother’s heart, " the delight of the nymphs, the envy of the ** Swains, wherefore, wherefore have you pulled “this death stroke on our heads? — Must you b’e " Shot at like a dog? — Must you — " But I drop the curtain on this Scene, and proceed to introduce my Hero on the martial stage.
Af TER endless fatigues, behold him arrived at. his captain’s quarter’s! ~ But his Captain, my dear madaih; was no Captain piu me; irei 'did the
cafe
is .CO, X HEATH;
cafe require it — He was entrapped to his hands and, instead of the winning behaviour he ws taught to expeos, he looked the Commander i the first instance upon him, and completed hi repentance for the rash Step he had taken.
He is now drawn out to exercise. — Tste Gen demen soldier has his fusee, unfortunately o .the wrong Shoulder — a volley of dire oaths affa his ears, and the big hoarse laugh of vulgar ridicule finks him into confusion. His toes are nc Sufficiently turned out; they are kicked by Ser jeantkite into the proper position— — wha anguish does he recofledt the maternal roof, where he was deemed the masterpiece of Nature; ani Ahe rural green, where his seats were mentionei with Such applause 1 — for,
■’tis tiie curse of noble minds opprelted,
To compare what they are, with what they ough to be.
In a moment of his most tender regrets, he re ceives a letter His trembling hand can Scared] break the Seal. A thousand cruel foreboding shake his Soul. — H is Daphne — has she Survivet their parting? Flis mother — is she not murderec by his conduct?? — Heayen is just, and will not fail to punish the sin of filial disbbedience. A length he opens it - — weeps — endeavours to reac the contents through his tears, but endeavours it vain. — He wipes them away — tries again — agaii — then learns tht|t his beloved mother has taken tc her bed — hisdaphne fears her deathbed, at that Side of which she attends day and pight, to giv( the consolation she herself, alas! stands So muef in need of. No hope .of reunion remains with them : their adieus are all the adieus'of despair —
S' ■ ' o:
... ' / A
A NOV E L ts9
of eternal Separation. But there is a World, where love like theirs shall be rewarded; where no Sergeant Kites will rend the Softest ties asstnder; where tears Shall be no more; and where alone they can ever meet again.
What Youth of nineteen, brought up in rural Simplicity, is made of adamant! — Our Dorilas hastily commits the paper to his pocket — hems thrice — and thrice — can once more articulate.
Hi returns to his tent, and goes through the duties of the day wish unusual alacrity. The night’s watching Succeeds, when he ponders the fatal tidings. Every heart Seems light but his.
Has no One then a mother but himself? — i nor under‘his mother’s; circshmstahces'?;
The countess de Sevigne says, our thoughts In the evening are a dusky grey; at midnight they are quite black; for which reason it is presumable our' midnight resolutions wear a, similar com plexion. ’ L
- His mother dies before his eyes., ^his fonddfna ginatipn gives unheard of horrors to the Scene. — The gentle, the faithful Daphne shrieks. : — Her lamentations pierce his Soul. — Not to See them is death. — What then has he to fear from flying to their Support? — His presence may do wonders. — shhey will disguise, they will conceal him, and' stern Justice shall all unavailing demand its Sacrifice.
I WILL not Sport with iyour sensibility So far as to Send you this humble history incomplete; but, humble as its Sorrows are, I must pause before I give you the concluding pastjges. - : >
The morning came, and found poor Dorila$‘ Unchanged in bis resolves; — to which end he got employed is: far distant as postible from his corpsl
— He
m C O X H E A T H:.
*~ite performed little miracles no burden w too heavy for his Shoulders ^ no hillock too ftu born for his Spade. It became necessary to Sei to the little alehouse at the extremity of the Hea for Somewhat that was wanting; — : He Solicited be the messenger, and did not Solicit in vain; b HO Sooner was he assured he had got out of 1 comrades ken, than he Set forward, with a bea ing heart for the village of his Mother — of LI Daphne — of all that was dear to him.
. The shadeis of night returned; ^ — he neverthi iess continued his march .: • — neither hedge ditch could impede his passage— — ^ etatering town on the frontiers of his hative county, at da) break;; be heard the outcry of, i T'liar is he ■ that must be him He cast his eyes around ~ the stricken deer began to weep : — no opening, n .mained for his efcape.his youth, his beautj bis firnplicity, could not touch their callous hearts he was exultibg^r Seized, and thrown, into a, seat full dungeon.
• Here she liay^, however, brit a few hours, be fore a light cart was brought for his more Speed reconveyance to the Gamp. Husbands wer roughly tied behind him •, but his grih was no' too big for tears : he bowed his head to his Iter fortune, and unresisting, uncomplaining, afcenc CD the dire vehicle.
His eyes were fixed on vacancy during, th whole period of hii Sad journey : not an obje^ did he distinguish, ■ of the many that presente themselves. ■ — He reached the Camp : — the Sigli of him excited various sensations, according to th hard nature or humanity of the beholderjs : — h wasshut upindofe durance.
: The Court-martial affeshbled : i- -- -- -- wa
brought forth and by she fouowiu|^ little shorft, ^ ‘ C
A N O V E L ii,
of natural eloquence melted the hearts of every individual.
"I AM a. most unhappy youth! — To Save a “mother from death I fled from my duty. — — " Would I could do as much by dying for that ** fault! — But she is brokenhearted, that is the “sin I ought to be punished for; — and I have no
** wish to live— — mercy to ask -- -- but that my
‘‘ untimely fate may be kept from her kn©w
** ledge, and the knovt^ledge of -- -- -"
No doubt he meant his Daphne; — but words ■failedshim., and he wept bitterly for more than a Second; when recovering himself he added :
'" ’tts itot what I am about to suflfer that
** wrings my heart thus; — ’tis' their Suffering;
and I hope it will be believd, when I behave " like a man, that is the only cause. those who have mothers, T know, will pity — those who ** hare not must — if they can — defpise me., I " have done, and Submit myself to my Judges." — The trial was short, — and be was Sentenced to she shot.
The day of execution was a day of Sorrow to all ranks on the Heath. The story of his love was in every mouth his merit — his mother’s affection and dlness — his motives for desertion — his ' 'youi'h — hi's figure — and how he had wrote, with an however rude pencil, in Several parts of his dungeon, the lines of a Song made in the late Rebellion by an unfortunate youfrg many who, like hnnfelf, when under Condemnation, was more anxious about her he loved, than anything relating to his own condition :
Come, Death! oh come, thou friendly Sleep!'
And with my Sorrows lay me low :
And should the gentle VI gin weep.
Nor sharp nor tasting be her woe I
‘ Then
COXHEATH;
Then may she think, where e’er she be,
■ No more of iny dlftrefs nor me, c.
which were so applicable. So pathetic. So toucf ing — But the law demanded its atonement, an
the poor amiable youth must bleed.
T he detachmentappointed to conduct him t fshe^fatal Spot are at his prison door. — He advai ces — cornpofed, resigned, manly. He falls int the proceshon. Not a dry eye can be encountere except his own; he kneels down, claps his ham together in the fervour of stlent devotion : — h Daphne, his mother, his^own Salvation — — -1 Scarcely knows wshich is most dear to, hip. — II executioners are duly arranged— — is 'whispen ■ to ask if he is ready he pulls his cap over h face— — his handkerchief — and — instead of tl expected death — Heaven and Earth { how bear tiful is mercy I Well might the immortal Bai pronounce it twice blested ^he has a pardon rei to him — his majesty’s most gracious pardon, pity to his youth, on condition that he Shall e: ter into the African Service. The blood rush into his pheeks — then 'back with rapidity to 1 heart vhe is bled by an attending Surgeon; • but she recolleflion of his mother and his daps nesh joy, atshavingshim thus Snatched from tl; _ grim tyrant’s gripe, is the cordial that restor him, r jand restored he shall be, in every Sense the worct! The hand that was extended in tl hour of his extremity, will not leave its work u ' accomplished Instead of perpetual exile, he sh!
be constituted a monument of royal benevolenci and his gratitude to his Prince, and his filial piet shall be the first of moral leslbns to the shns ai s daughters by which the corner nativity is'i
habited.
I ^ -, ■ - ■ Theft

A N O V E L 1%
There is a tale of woe converted intcs glad tidings! — John Drew and, hia millwefs were im mortalised by the pen of Pope; — coiild I then forbear to weave the thread of this pity moving Story into my Camp Annals, of which, indeed, I fear it will be considered the chief shrnament? — - Be it So, for the honour of Humanity.;
But perhaps I should, or more properly perhaps I need not by this time inform you, that, next to the royal clemency, this youth is indebted for his present existence tomrs. Mildmay, the; universal, the nevev failing friend of her Species.; What luxury to a mind, turned as her’s is for the enjoyment of every good, every liberal action, to have theipower of Saving a life — of standing between a worthy creature and all the horrors of a legal cutting oss 1 — She is, however, the only woman I cannot envy the reward of her feel.. Her purse — the utmost exertion of her interest were shut barely Sufficient on this' occasson to gain her desired point; it being judged neces ri Sary this poor youth should die, Tor
the general benefit
And now having Spun out my Letter to Such an inordinate length, I can only juit ask you how you do and asffure you, that if shy wishes can Nail vou in any circumstance of human felicity,
none will postei's a larger share than yourself, -- -
Every one here kisses your hands,. ^
; - t \.., ■. ^. ■
am, Ac. Ac.
■ L 1. ■ '. ■
.. ^ i - sh;,
■ i. : sh' b;
V -- ' Ella Rivers.
'• * '■ r' la' - • *... i ■
LED
i64 COXHEATH!
*" A
i
V
LETTER II
■. I '
T';
HE report of the day is, that his majesty’s Mar, quee is packed up. in order to be pitched on th( Heath, as the great preparatory for his reception, — L am elated at the news : for when his gracious fe[ shall walk from tent to tent, the characters of loy ally and well meriting, so strongly traced out i: my dear father’s countenance, must engage hin to curiosity, to liberality.; nay>lwtll be So bold a to write it, to justice
- Queen too is: expected I — What an en livening of the female troops rvf'iw her prefenc prove I ■ — To excel each other is now the emulation; — and as the passion is a narrow one, it gi ve birth to many ridiculous cqntests, i all which wi cease when once the appearing well in she eyes C Majesty becomes the ambitroni sh
* What a model for the Kingdom does the good Sense of our royal Charlotte hold forth I — .dress, in her hands; fulfils all the duties of it institution; — it adds to the native amlableness C the person, and, instead of dazzling the eye, aeon veys the most forcible impression to the mind C the elegance and taste by which it is dictated.
Morality too has high obligations to thi .Dueen of queens. — Conjugal felicity had begu to be deemed, by our Wits, conjugal folly; an to love and Obey, a certain token of a tame an abject Spirit; — when lo! the Royal Pair took th lead, — rescued the honourable estate of Matri mpny from ridicule — and, by maintaining they ground for more than Sixteen Succeeding years must • have effectually rooted out every libertine
piqua
N O V E L j6s
pique and lihertine principle; insomuch that 1 trull the riling generation vi'ill be found turtles, ntft only in the article of choice, hut constancy to thefr mates, and live and die honouring the highest point of friendship and Social intercourse in humai existence. ' -
. You will judge by this eulogium on Marriage, that my Swain and I keep up our Soft understanding; — nor are you mistaken : but nothing is more distant in our prospedt or intentions than that, {atajlrophe. — I love him, I own it, for his behaviour to my father : and he loves me,. because— — it is his destiny my dear; — the common reason for ail uncommon events, as hanging, drowning, wedding, c. Ac.
Happy is it for me, and right happy do I deetn it, that you was not born tofollow a Camp. Had you been born to it, it would have been your fate;
• — and if your fate, how could you have been to blame for it? For thus would even m; fair friend have argued, if my brother and her, not having the fear of God or man before their eyes, rather than Submit to a temporary Separation, had made a runaway match of it: — and thus argue all the lively and rash damsels who figure away on the North road, when Smarting under the consequen r ces of their ill conduot. But to return to myself
^ — happiness in your absence arises from the belief that this youth of my approbation would have tripped up my brother’s heels in your sti" your, at the same time that you had ousted me from his heart. Ha! ha I ha I I must laugh at.. the pickle you would have found yourself in —
. Married in haste,
my word, you would have repented at leisuref".
'A *
for.
coux HEATH:
for, to be Sure, .the fun never shone on So perfee abeings, — Why Ferdinand, madam, is a Scare crow to him! — roh thou .of little faith!
Had I escaped making an acquaintance wit! .the tender pasrion, I should have concluded, fror lydia’s and your mode of bearing it, that it hi been a Saddening Sort of a'busi'neis, aiicl thgt Sighs c. were its natural and only food. — So far fron k, however, that the pastion is as lively and a amusing a pastion as can be felt, provided it i lighted up in a lively'heart. That, I grant you is an estc ntial ciicumltance; for if it is not pro phane to borrow the Scripture language on tfi occasion, " with the Sorrowful it will be Sorrow full, and with the gay it will be gay," ~ mos ^omplaifantly taking the ten of the mind it in habits.
Lydia, you know, h+s a fine penferofo turn o countenance, and a cadence of expression tha goes right to the heart : — Love, therefore, ap pears to infinite advantage in her person— — m’ face which is honoured, like the Empress Pop poea’s, with a little cock up nose, the pla Sul nefs of this playful divinitj, condescends to be VI Sible. — A picture of our Several looks would pro duce, if not a pleasing, a very whimsical con trast. — But enough, you will say, of this tri Sing. N
What String shall I then touch as a unison t your feelings ?- — The whole round of possible sub jedts is open to my pen. In like manner with oiii first parents, but one prohibition, one restrain is imposed;; do I wish more anxioussy to indulge myself on the forbidden, than to enjoy al the given topics. Hence it is plain, that ever) child of mortality is an Eve..
■, ^ ■ Yoa
#• • •
i
>
A N O V E L ifif’
« ■ p 0 *
You would have me remember, the penalty of my transgieshon will not admit a comparison with what She was to incur; — but disobedience, my young Lady, is diiobediehce, let the quantity be what it may; and you must excuse my falling into the commistlon of it only to gratify an, inclination in us both — I to write, and you so read, things that ought not to be readyor
written., ’
■ Mrs. Mildmay wishes my fa there could obtain
a garrison appointment in return for his Services, that he might retire no less from the fatigues, than dangers of the field. — Five wound’s, she observes, he has received in five succcsiive' engagements, though Providence has gracioujjy (a word she utters mentally only) Spared his face; ’ which is Surely Sufficient to entitle him to, Such a provision; — and Which, by the bye, I have Some notion she is now exerting her interest to obtain
for him.
It is. Says belisarlus, the misfortune of a Prince not to be able to reward all blood Spilled in his Service : — it is, however, certain, that George, our present King, carries a list of his Military as well as Naval Officers in his pocket, and reviews, if not directs, every promotion they pas's through— — one tljen believe it posilbie for such a man as my father to stand succestive years thereon unnoticed? — From the campaign of the celebrated wolse to the year i77^> has he been a Lieutenant. — Now, methinks, it should strike whoever stops a moment upon this ground, that a Soldier must be either very unworthy, or very much neglected, to hold one and the Same rank for Such a length of time : ■ — but this is one of the points that puzzles me, and which I am clear I shall never be able to develop.
You
/
«
i0 ^ coxheathr
You are Scandalised, it Seems, at the idea o: our present Situation; and tell me, that from al you can pick out of my descriptions, the ssmilai confusion of Characters prevails in a Camp, as o: tongues at the building of 3abch But I must be your pardon for that: — a line'is not only drawn, but drawn so nicely, that there is no more danger oi mixing with Ladies of a certain cast, than, if theii pfofesiions were wrote on their foreheads. You are curious to know how this point can be managed, — I will tell you : — All men, I hope, are born with a Sense of shame; some men 1 know are born with a Sense of honour; — and, what is not a little remarkable, the more libertine the principles are in general, the more formal you find them in particular instances. This, you will say, is a paradox; nor do I expect you should Solve it. Mark me, then, for I will condescend to throw light on the hidden meaning.;
Such is the masculine mind (no bad hint to us females in the regulation of our conduct), that though they go about Seeking whom they may devour in the persons of the wives, daughters, and filters of the Community, they are stdl Sure to watch over their own relatives like the hesperian dragon : nay, a Single peep at a damsel So protected, has often proved mortal.
A Camp is but a kind of larger household — United in a common cause, the cause of their Country, they infensibly fall into a domestic unity. — In a word, as the men are all brothers. So the women are consshered by them as So many Sisters, whose fame they must defend, and whose morals they ought to preserve from contamination. — — Hence, in all the intercourse between the Sexes, friendsnip and politeness. mark the bounds; — and believe me, nothing etse could prevent its being a
Scene
  169
Scene of llcentiousness and carndge. — As for the midnight revels of these Sons of Mars, no modest eye or ear has the remotest acquaintance with them — and though the drefpngand that good-natured Ladies, as in the metropolis, come abroad unblushing, and compose as it were a common multitude, at exercise, airings, cc. they never attempt to tread the honourable ground we oicu py — Oh ye fairest of nature’s works, why will you forfeit your claims to the honours which await. the daughters of Chastity! — In this respect, Virtue bears its reward in its hands. — At their approach, the cloven foot of Vice is clapped behind its choicest votaries. — Can any homage exceed this? — The Bacchanalian roar is checked — the tongue of fenseless ribaldry is silenced— — manners are humanised — and So pleasurable is this Seeming constraint, that the occasson is voluntarily Sought, and the period of experiencing it is distinguished by the most reverential epithets: it is.
The feast of reason, and the flow of Soul;
the Soft, the Soothing, the Social, hour; — the fountainhead of elegance; the high polisti of the masculine charan: er. The contrast has too much Shadow for my pencil; I therefore leave it to be pictured by a dark and Suitable imagination.
I AM become So expert an horsewoman, that my toe no Sooner touches the gallant hand extended for my asiistance, than I vault into my Seat, and dismount with equal grace and agility; and so totally changed is the course of natural events, that many a Beau and Belle who, before this encampment, would have Scorned to be vissble until noon, are now met a cheval on the Heath by four, or at latest by five, in the morning; where they, un vo L II H shrinking,
i
lyo
(t.
shrinking, abide the dew; — behold the glories i the rising Sun; • — drink their chocolate, as the Je cat their pastover, with their whips upheld, ai the Steed pawing with impatience to be gone; them Scamper away to See Who and Who is tog there, and seast their eyes on military manoeuvre
A C ERTAIN Corps, which shall be namelej on their first arrival at the Heath, were So aw: ward and unpromising in all their movements, th it was despaired ever to bring them into any t lerable training. But, to show you what induft and pradticecan efsedt, they are the most perse in their evolutions of any Corps in the field; an instead of the toot toot tooting they used to ke( up, fire with the Skill and harmony with whi your masterly musicians strike the stursi that wb up a celebrated chorus.
My Brother -- -- — What a variety of fenfatio
would that little heart of yours prove, if you coii see him at exercise !- — His uniform is distinguisl CD by a Somewhat of ornament in its lapelle fre the common Soldiers; but his rank is cheek b jowl with the lowest.
- Imagine him drawn out — the commanding ( ficer (perhaps a corporal) in front: — ** To t " right — the left — the front — the rear — advan ** — retire — wheel — charge — present — fire." — What a thousand accidents might befall a lover u der Such circurnstances I — what infinite fatigt must he not endure! — A detachment moves osf it is his day of duty. Behold him stationed best the tejits, at due distances — — his fusee on his shot der. He traverses the Spot of his limitation — is weary — rests on his arms — walks again. A do gathers around — the wind blows — the lightni bespeaks a fearful storm at hand. — It arrives : -- t cloud bursts over your lover’s head; — he see
shell
A N O V E L tti
shelter in his box, but, alas I it has no door to Screen him from the tempest. — It is the hour of relieving the sentinels : — A little body of men present themselves for the purpose. — The usual Salutes are interchanged. In Spite of the raging elements; but it is not to the guardroom he is to be condu6ted: — all ivet as he is, he is only put on a new watch — and the pitiless pelting of the Heavens will be over before his interval of repose arrives. — You weep — Renounce then every idea of being the wife of a Soldier for he must either
Have honour loving you,
or he must not love at all. — Would you disgrace the man of your heart — fix an indelible stain on his character— — his head down with shame point the finger of Scorn against his person, and all this to purchase an inglorious Safety? — No — ^ Surely no — strength of mind becomes our Sex. — As it is ours to reward. So we ought to inspirit our favourite Hero. — The young Cadet shall perform wonders in youf name. — It shall be his mif trefs’s blow that sells his enemy at his foot: in hqr name shall he conquer; and her applause shall be his brightest wreath, his triumphal crown.
Recover this — and you shall hear further from
Your, ci
Ella Rivers.
J.
5 *,
r
'Ha LET
172
LETTER III
'RU EL Ella! Why will you thus contir .ally tear open, the wounds of my heart? I .Sooner does reason, filial duty, and necestity I gin to heal them, than your pen penetrates that to the quick,; — they bleed afresh, their utrm anguish is renewed, and their cure, alas! t comes a tenfold labour.
Maternal tenderness once concealed a fi ro, Ella. A Hero, (as Homer tells us), did r disdain to wear a feminine habit for his difguise. No reflection is, however, call on the son’s or the mother’s conduct: parental feelings sanffisi, the deed. — Will you require the Softer passion to "violence on itself, and betray to slaughter, frc patriotic frenzy, the youth of its idolatry?
I.LOVE the author of the tragedy qf Mahofm for one Sweet thought which he has given to 1 dying Palmira : When the heart is pure (Says flu Small is the difference, easy is the change lover’s passion for a sifter’s fondness." Ma’ “fiot'then, without the smallest deviation from t female character, experience the cares, the fei of friendsliip, the Sacred friendship of mah city, where your brother is concerned? Broug up as we were together, may not his person, 1 Safety be dear to me, compatibly with the nia fense <jf delicacy, and the ermine of modest) But you are no longer the Soft, the sympathisi Ella. — A Camp is the fit residence only of Am zonian dames. — Cupid, instead of reposing on! mother’s lap, there rests his head on the hard b
So
A N O V E L te
fom of Mars. — The clangour of arms is familiar to his ear; his little heart feels not the dying groans; sierceness and ambition tip the darts he Scatters around; Scars, Shattered limbs, are estimated beauties by his camp votaries; and the pastion he inspires, is transserable at will. The living hero rivals the dead — 'tranples on his eorpse — insults his manes. — Ferdinand, your Ferdinand — for Such is the custom of the World, I must not call him mine, though as nearly allied to him by every affeuionate tie — was not born for Such Savage Scenes : his heart is gentle. — But I forbear : • — I may weep, Ella — the Song you quote upon rne allows it: Yes, I may weep, though he muji go.
My father often enquires after the rx.
That is hisdistindtion; not choossng to mention a name osfenfive to his ears : so liable, in numberless instances, is the human mind to err,, and mistake the best friends for the worst foes..
I HAVE not the courage, I own, to make the. experiment; but., notwithstanding your opinion of Sir Ferdinand, I am more than half persuaded, if he knew all, he would relax his high claims foi bis daughter, and Sit down content With giving her happiness. '.
On the rigid, principles of virtue, Mr. rivers’s conduct may, perhaps, be virtiious: but what think you of your brother’s flexibility and rny resignation? He has not only been broke in upon in his tender Scliemes, but forced out of the nro festional track his nature and education So well fitted him to pursue: : — is not a man for blood shedding, but preaching the gospel of peace. — As to my merit on the occasion, 1 leave it to your own justice to determine.,
Lydia, at the present period, is my most agreeable correspondent. — Her pen, thoughshe
H 3 labours
i
i.74
labours apparently to confine it to ehearful fu' jedts, will deviate into the pathetic, the Symp thetic. — Yours is all levity or Satire. The fii hurts me; the Second alarms me : for Satire is mark of self postesfion ill suited to the circur stances of your friend; and the gentle, genero turn of Sentiment I always gave you credit for.
In the tale of your Recruit, for example, yi Should have Spared me. Softened as I am by r disappointments, and not have interested me ev to the pointed pieces for his destrudtion. I h nearly lost the delightful Surprise your playfi ness intended me, bymy tear of tribute to the i timely fate of one so worthy: but, luckily, word caught my eye, which changed my mourni into rejoicing.
What a prize, my dear, have you drawn the Lottery of Life I — A youth of fortune, accomplishments, of liberality, follows you LI your shadow; unchecked, unconstrained, et in that father’s presence to whom I am indeb
for all my -- But no matter — the goodness of
heart sand: ifies the austerity of his proceedings your sight; and poor / am deemed a peevi fretful girl, who cannot trust her lover’s o stancy, or rely on his truth, at the distance ' two or threescore miles.
I SHALL write to your lister next post; anc I am not Sufficiently pleased with you to put t commistlon into your hands, will not So much remember Ferdinand, but conclude myself
Your, Ac.
Caroline Fletche:
L E
  175
LETTER IV
The Royal Marquee adorns our plains. You have, no doubt, read the pompous description of It inserted in the news papers. Fighting in foppery is a truly British idea; but believe me, the martial rather than the princely character has been the object, in the conslrudtion of this celebrated Camp equipage; and, though perfectly complete, it is totally free from parade, tinsel, and folly.
The Londoners had been down to view the Spot marked out for its erection; they now pour in upon us in their one horse chaises, to feast their eyes after a Still more delicious manner; — men, women, and children. — blested Heaven! that in fp sensible a land Some Statute is not instituted, as in cafes of lunacy, whereby the body, purse, and reputation of the individual may be Secured on certain occasions. Though let me correct myself— — Camp influenza Spares neither age npr Sextherefore my Scheme for die benefit and honour of my Country would be impradfica ble.,
1 ^ t
A .Haberdasher, his lady, a young damsel his lady’s Sister, and a little boy and girl his, children, arrived at the desired haven about four o’clckk yesterday afternoon in a one horse chaise, stowed together, you may be Sure as close as bale goods for an Eashindia voyage,
^ The Encampment is three miles in length— — poor beast stood panting and wagging his tail with fatigue, insomuch that it was thought, if they attempted to make it draw them the extent of the Scene they came to view, he would fall
H 4 down •
*
L ie C O X H E A T H :
A
down dead in their Service : he was therefore let gently on to the little alehouie (already immoria lized by my pen), in order to be refreshed, &rc and his conductor had orders to return with another horse, (if another could be had for love oi money) to convey them to Maidstone.
The company then adjourned to a house, o rather tent, of public resort on the Heath, to re coyer their Spirits after So long a journey, and ad just their headdress. But Such was their impatience to enter in the amusements of the place, tha they Sallied forth in lei's than half an hour to wall over the ground I have described.
"The woman was, it Seems, far advanced in he pregnancy, and the children had never had th' smallpox. The heat of the weather was excess. ■. and the toils they had pasted through Severe — — they nevertheless advanced from tent to ten — that is, peeped in as they pasted by — — am stopped a Second or So at each Succeeding mar quee.
Mrs. Haberdasher (for I have forgot he name) began by this time to feel herself much in disposed. Her colour went and came. Till he stusband took the alarm. But what was to b done? She must either dehy the charge of II health, or consent to quit the delightful field She preferred the gratisying her curiosity to ever; other consideration, until She fainted away in he fist er’s arms.
A Lieutenant, near whose marquee Sh' was, humanely, permitted her to be convcyei there, little toreseeing the consequence; - — - — So lo! she was Soon announced in labour, and inca pable of being removed. The Lieutenant was a his wits end; — and on communicating his distres to some of his Brother officers, found the laugl
Sc
A N O V E L 177 '
So much against him, that he execrated himself no leis than the trick his evil Stars had played him.
Contrary, however, to all expectation, the grew lb much better as to be put into a carriage, and reached a farm house, before She made Sier husband a present of another daughter.
The report this morning is, that She is quite as well as can be expected, but that the little boy and girl, dragged from London on this Camp ex? pedition, have Sickened, it is believed, Sof the smallpox: and; to crown the whole, the man’s circumstances, on inquiry, prove to be Such, as threaten him with awhereas by Christmas newt.
Yet don’t be Severe, my lovely girl, on this inconsiderate and unhappy pair; but remember the hundreds of equally absurd and extravagant people the fun has shone upon, within these few months, in this quarter of the kingdom, and, in pity of their neceshties, draw a veil over their,? folly.
The few guineas to have been expended in this mo pie a fur able ]onvney were, moreover, borrowed on usurious terms; Mrs. Mildmay, even Mrs. Mildmay, shakes her head j but her heart will be open; and perhaps what now appears their greatest misfortune, may turn out the groundwork of their future prosperity: : — insist’upon it; you have charity enough to join me in an Amen!,
As I came from Mildmay hall, a few hours ago, what a fight for the honour of Britain did, my eyes encounter! — Two single horse chaises. having met in their pastage to and from the.camp, that pheatons vtovixa needs dispute the way with each other. T he gentleman and his family whose'. horses’s head was turncdijfrom the metropolis, claimed his privilege; — the gentleman bound for Lcindon asterted his right.to keep the road, and
H 5 heroically.
/
178 CD X H E A T H;
heroically declared, he would sit there till mid night rather than Submit to break the way.
This cool insolence (for he bid fair to hoi his resolution) So wound up his opponent, that h gave him notice of the shock he was about to re ceive. He remained immoveable — until thejad CD animal, making one great esfort to fulfil th wisnes of bis master, pulled the carriage, unde the weight of which his shoulders groaned, Sud denly forward — and behold I they were both in stantly overset.
Their condition at our approach was no lei
whimsical that disastrous. The ladies -- -- -- -- fc
there was a brace in each chaise — were beyon ^ all description discomposed : — cushions, curls black pins, overspread the Spot of their humiliation; — and she who had displayed fine auburn loci? before her fall, was covered with confusion t find nothing left on her head but a few gre hairs.
. Moreover, a silk shoe tamboured in hig taste, being torn from a fair damfel’s foot, be trayed those fradlures in the toes of her stocking she had omitted to repair in her impatience t reach the Camp. disgrace and exposure wa; however, the only consequence of their miscor dut; and as Mrs. Mildmay conceived they wer too near the Heath alehouse to incur any dangc by the accident. Sue bid her coachman go on, an left them to refit themselves at leisure, fayins " we should always distinguish between the rid;
culous and the unfortunate; and though w " relieve the latter, rather promote than oppos ** the just punishment of the former."
These are, nevertheless, the daily incideni we meet with. Clouds of dust darken the aii and the clatter of carriages stun the ear j but th
till
  179
true point of folly is, that none but those who can afford to Stay Some time amongst us, can judge of our pleasure or our pains, or carry away with them the Simplest idea of
What a charming thing’s a battle!
I HAVE got a new lover I — nothing less, I affure you, than the Chaplain of my father’s regiment; — a sty, steek, inssnuating fellow, with a right honourable' patron at his back. This, my dear must be the highroad to the poor lieutenant’s promotion. Nor is it a random shaft, but a mortal wound he has received; and you must be prepared for the event, when you recollect the yiadingnefs of my nature. He quotes whole texts of Scripture in Support of the wisdom, the purity of his passion; at the same time that, iri the true Spirit of worldly mindedness, he hints at the eligibility of the offer.
We shall try how far it is my distiny to be the wife of a Priest — a thoroughbred Priest — who,
I am Satisfied, could not withhold even his Cara Spofa from his patron, should the loan he requested — So super abundant is his gratitude I
No reply whatever will I make to the melancholy medley the last post brought me, but put up' a bill in the parish church of Mildmay hall for the restoration of your good-humour,, the absence of which is the only abatement I can make in your claims to perfes: ion; and may the prayers of the congregation prove fuccessful!
I am, Ac..
» %
'Ella Rivers!
^ t
LET
A
io € O X H E A T H :
\
LETTER V
0
%
The youth In the oart has the air of a Lord,
And we cry, There dies an Adonis!
■ /
Now if going to Tyburn can So improve a
young fellow’s figure, I beg leave to ask you, what esfedt falling in battle rnust have on the im paslioned heart! It is worth a man’s while to get Shot, to be So tenderly lamented.
Shouldft thou, (but heav’n avert it!) slaouldst thou
V bleed,
To Slop thy wounds my finest lawn i’d tear, c.
Such is the language of prior’s Ernma to her fup posed fugitive, to engage him to permit her to share all the rpiseries,, the dangers of his exile. — I will,, however, own to you, as proof that I am not quite callous, that even a sham fight, of which 1 was a Spectator, has So unhinged me by its comparative view with the horrors, the carnage of a real one, that I begin to wish I had not the sin of disobedience to answer for, left the death of my Soldier should be my punishn»ent. Well might my dear mother Seek to Save her children’s sensibility from the Stabs she must have experienced during the five racking periods my father was called forth to face the enemy! I am chilled at the bare recollection, and beseech you to benefit by the hint.
How tenderly must I not then feel for our x ydia, and how earnestly must I not wish, peace restored to her bosom, by the however miraculous
rcstoratioa. of the youth she deplores, given to
her
  ii
her again from death! — How it would endear a true lover! — And thus, I infist upon it, with few ' exceptions, is. the measure of our happiness proportioned to the degree of distress we have patiently Sustained. Patiently madam, is my word.
But, however I may afsedt to play the Stoic,
I am at heart a mere, mere woman; nof can I raise my imagination to an idea of distress beyond that of being Separated, for ever Separated, from the object of our Softest attachment, our Sublimest friendship. — An ugly tremor hangs upon my Spirits. — I would, but cannot Shake it off; therefore, with your good leave, this shall she (if my memory deceives me not) the shortest letter you ' ever yet received from,
Yours, Ac. " -
Ella Rivers.
t
'■ ‘i*
/
I
H
\ •. ^
0 «
.. ^ -
■ • f
^ ■ T ^ ^ i : ■ ^
'‘ - 4 ' I r ^
........ ' " let.
At
\
«
j82 C O X H E A T H
i
LETTER VI
\
Heaven, that makes Mankind Its care, Ouards the Brave, to Serve the Fair.
X AM all in a flutter, my dear madam! My per trembles in my hand.! — But life is nothing more than one great Romance; so you will, perhaps, • be less Surprised than myself at what I am about to relate.
It was fettled thaf our round of visits Shoulc run from Mildmay hall to my father’s tent; frorr my father’s tent to melvin’s, and from melvin’s tc Mildmay hall; an etiquette highly pleasing to al parties. My father, I perceive, drew Melvin ir to throw the connexion wider in the eyes of that J Camp, and leave it doubtful, whether Ferdinand, or ferdinand’s young friend was the lord of that widow’s wishes, who, from her large fortune, i; the lady of every unmarried man’s wishes on tin Heath.
It was now Mrs. mildmay’s turn to entertain and the whole friendly circle was asfembled at thi Hall. — The dinner bell had rung — the Servant and covered the table according to the bill of fan when Melvin was informed a gentleman en quirest for him. The gentleman was destred ti wall in without ceremony, and partake of th family dinner. — It was Captain Davies, of th east Indiaman.
"I HOPE, Ladies," Said he, addressing Mrs Mildmay and me, " I shall both surprise an( V oblige you, for here is your admired stranger, ’
introducin
  183
introducing the young fellow we had Seen on shipboard.
My father jumped over the table, I believe, and Lydia Swooned away in ferdinand’s arms. — • It was wilson — the wilshn whose death she had So long and deeply deplored! — the human nerves, madam, are not calculated to Sustain Such Strokes. — As for him, poor fellow I he stood motionless, in one of those fine attituds we of this generation must never hope to behold again. — Garrick himself would have acknowledged the likeness;; there was nothing more wanting to render it a first-rate theatrical Scene, than wilson’s crying out, "Let me not breathe, lest I destroy this " vision— — still ’tis here I — without me, as ** within me! — ’tis she! ’tis she !" — In a word, Lydia revived, and we were the happiest of mortals. ^
He begged we would not aik him on that occasion, for the particulars of his story; it was a melancholy one, and would interrupt the general satisfaction"
"! my own boy !” said my father, shaking him again by the hand; — ■ " we have " you once more amongst us, and we will enjoy " your restoration. It will be time enough tomorrow to tell us by what miracle we obtained " the blessing."
That celebrated thought of gay’s is, my dear madam, tindtured by the gloom of his own disappointments : :
Friendship like Love, is but a name,
Unless to one we stint the flame,
says he. ’tis no Such thing. Say I. — Friendship has its gradations, and Love is the achme; I mean
the
is C O X H F. A T H :
the love that ends in matrimony : but never Suppose that the liberal mind may not extend its connexion ad infinitum, without loling an atom of its force, its Social fire. Such, however, is my creed; and 1 find it Supported by the opinion of the greatest Writers, who can be a citizen of the world without this malleability of assedtions; — for Friendship, as well as self-love, may be brought under that fine description of pope’s .•
'i
¥
Friendship but Serves the virtuous mind to wake.
As the Small pebble stirs the peaceful lake j The centre mov’d, a circle strait shcceeds.
And still another and another Spreads :
Friends, parents, neighbour, first it will embrace,, its country next, and next all human race.
. The love of a friend is but a more refined kind of self-love. — A second felfiz a common epithet with polite authors; ^ — the medicine of life, the great Solomon pronounces it; — and may this Sublime Spark, this emanation of the Divinity be the last extinguished, and the last extinguishable part of my existence I — This, if you think proper, may be called my rhapsody on friendship; but I am lifted up to the clouds, and the highest human flight is all incapable of doing justice to my feelings. — Need I add, that we passed an evening of glorious satisfaction.
Wilson would/attend my father to Camp, and it was Settled he should steep with Ferdinand. — Captain Davies was obliged to go early in the morning to Chatham, and stay the day; we therefore invited ourselves to breakfast with Mr. Rivers Senior, whose marquee is So commodiously
Situated, that wc'can have everything sent in
from
A N O V EL. 185
from a coffeehouse and tavern in the rear of his line, on the shortest notice.
I NOW trust, all our rough storms are blown over, and that my future epistles will be fraught with agreeable intelligence. Nothing my sweet girl is wanting but a golden Shower, to enable Ferdinand to a your hand with a good grace, and ask it Successfully; and Shape out Some course fora pair of true lovers; 'whole poverty is almost equal to their virtues; and who cannot, like the Chameleon, feed on air — alias, the truest love. —
As for Melvin, he Seems to look as if he vas Sure of me; but perhaps he may find himself mistaken, lie is a very pretty fellow, and has a very pretty fortune : An East-india Captain, is, however, at a twenty thoufand pounder; and where the mind is disinterested, the odd five will never hays Sufficient weight to turn the Scale, We shall Soon see how matters will go with ^ <
S
r *
■ /
e,
Your most affe^ionate
Ella Rivers
X ' /
\ S
• • •;
i • ■
*
*
•V
L E IV
l
LETTER VII
»
U R breakfast this morning was a truly tra gi comic Scene. The beaux and belles were no Sooner assembled, than Mrs. Mildmay, with a sweetness that would unlock the closest heart, asked wilson if he intended toteaffume his militarj occupation.
• He replied, with a glow of countenance tha' was a Sufficient comment on his words, " No ** madam; I will not Serve a Prince who can le " Mr. Rivers rank at this time of day, and a " home, under his immediate cognizance;; **■ I"
How then, my generous cavalier, do yoi mean to dispose of yourself He looked down. Sighed, and answered ** was at present wholly undetermined, except as t the article of being a Soldier I"
"If you had been a married man," said Mr: Mildmay, V I would have besought you to ac cept, till Something better offered, of m land stewardship. There is a Lodge quite t ** agreeably Situated, ^ and quite as highly finistiec " as the Hall, only in miniature; where an amis ble couple, I must think, could Spend two ( " three hundred a year very pleasantly. — Don you think So, Mr. Melvin ?"
"The happiest and most eligible sttuation C earth !"
"What pity," replied Mrs. Mildmay, " " is, then, Mr. wilson is but just arrived i J England! The World is so busy, and at tl
'" fan
A N O V E L 187
"Same time So good-natured, that was I to en" tain a bachelor in character of my homme ** d’affaires, they would instantly give him to me .for a husband. Had you been a longer time, aniongst us, I should not have despaired of Seeing you duly qualified for my great officer ** but these matrimonial unions," looking styly at my father, require more patience and deliberation than accords with my convenience; especi ally," added she, humourousty viewing Lydia and her Swain, " when the heart is wholly un. ** toucdied, and has all its gradations to run through, of choice, acquaintance, and nuptial " preparation.’^
You shall not my dear madam," Said my father, " always outgo me in kindness to my fa" "; though I can perceive you have laid a " trap for my consent. All that I could have.
asked of Heaven for a beloved and amiablq " child, your goodness has provided; therefere take her wilson L My approving voice, and " the paternal blessing, is all I have to bestow."
I WAS So little prepared for this denouement, that I burst into tears of joy, when Melvin (I Shall never forgive him the piece of wit, as I sup pose he called it) hastily Seizing Mr. rivers’s hand, cried, " And have you then no blessing for me? — bless me, bless me also, oh my father!’* — which produced a laugh at my expense : but he may, perhaps, repent his vivacity as long as he lives.
"Upon my honour," Said my father, " you ** are all in a plot against me; and this, I " imagine, appears to you my unguarded mo ** But though you have my highest approbation, and are, I can perceive, perfe^iy " en train with all parties, yet you must excuse
5
iss‘ e O X H E A T H :
me, if I let your matrimonial petition lie some little time longer unanswered on my table. — ** The World has nothing to do with a young " couple Mrs. Mildmay has provided for; but Should you take Ella, the daughter of a poor Lieutenant during the campaign to wife, ‘' every mouth would be open against me, and I " should be Said to have Snapped at a young tel
** while his resolution was warm. -- -- -- -- You
"ought not,, my dear Melvin, to look disappointed; for my exprestions haye painted my ‘‘ feelings ill, if they have not told you I Shall ‘'‘ be happy, at a proper period, to be allied to " you; nor shall Ferdinand fail to find me a father, if ever I have the power of proving myself Such."
• Here was .another allusion to the Secret avenue of our prosperity I — Why will this belt of fathers be kind only by halves? Why not tell us, my dear fiiadam, the nature of his hopes, that we might hope with him? — But he has a right to do as he pleases, and I will be content.
'Mrs. Mildmay proposed having the wedding a private and a Speedy one. — " We need not," Said she, " give a history of the young " gentleman’s pretensions to the lady’s hand, or ‘‘ mention the era of their first tender attachment; it is Sufficient to announce them for man " and wife to Such as deserve So much attention “from us : and as I reallyam distressed for a " person to Supply poor lifimore’s place, and ‘‘ shall have my affairs in ternh\e derangement un ^3 “dels I am early Suited, I think next Monday ‘‘ (which is five days from this our consultation) ‘‘ ought to be the day."
My father fubmittedxthe whole management to her wisdom and friendship; and thus we shall
■ '' ‘ ‘ ' ' have
- 1 '
A N O V E L 189
♦
have a Mrs. Wilson next week in our family. -- -- --
I Shall expect a letter of congratulation — a cheer full, a rejoicing letter from you on the occasion., My father now inquired into the adventures Wilson had met with Since their Separation, and received the following very extraordinary partir culars:
"It was old Wilson, as Lydia had an acr " count from her friend, by whole orders hisrer " turn home with the litter was cut off, and hb " consequential treatment nearly Such as was described. Finding his sather’s temper grow " more and more austere and inflexible; Frank, " the Son, began to meditate an escape, and resolved to take all the dangerous chances on his " head. He accordingly watched an oppoftu" nity, and with three pistoles only in his pocket " becarne a fugitive.
"On reaching a little town, he was kindly " entertained by an old man and his wife, for the " first night of his journeying; and early next " morning Set forward, to the best of his judgement, for the Spot of my .father’s residence" " day was intensely hot, 'and he was ob“ “to climb a tree to Shelter himse|f from the " Scorching rays of the fun. In this Situation, a " Sort of Banditti came riotously along; — and “on perceiving him, in the wantonness of their " hearts were for Shooting at him, as a good " mark. But changing their minds, he was commanded to descend, and Show cause why his " life Should be Spared“
“does valour avail a man under such“ “as these?? thought of his " beloved Lydia gave a value to his existence " beyond even the ties of nature, and he resolved to comply with every postibleinjundion, to
Soften,
too coxheath; :
♦»
I
"Soften, to Soothe, to engage them to mercy : he " therefore hastened to present himself on his feet " before them; and replied to their interrogations, that he was a poor unfortunate young " man, who had fled from a stern master, and "'was wandering to a place where he hoped he " should get employment. They Surveyed him “in much the Same manner as the Smithfield " dealers do their purchases; allowed him to be " a very decent fellow; and that as his life would " do them more good than his death, he Should " live; so bid him be Satisfied. They then opened a wallet, and Spread what it contained " of refreshment on a bank, and Suffered him to " participate; aster which they Set off, and he " was compelled to accompany them.
"Nine days did he herd with these savages ** — by nature, however calling themselves civilised; — who fubsisted by rapine, " and sanostified the most daring outrages with “the name of retaliation. — The whole country, " Said they, is a state of warfare — brother against " brother. Son against father. We free bopters then pay them only in their own coin; and " whether rebels or loyal subje<5ts, they deserve" " Smart, to teach them to feel for the distref" Ses of their neighbours.
"In the course of their travels, they met with " Some Spanish agents, who are employed to " furnish the Brazils, and the other posseffions of " his Most Catholic Majesty, with staves, Ac. “to one of whoifi they sold him; — and he was " Soon put on board an Acapulco stoop, and conveyed to a remote part of the South Continent
"The person for whom he had been purchased was an old gentleman, who had made
"repeated
A N O V E L 191
"repeated voyages to the east, and was Supposed to be immensely rich; but having outlived a wife and three beloved children, he had " retired from all commerce, as it were, with " the world, and was as abstemious and as pious " as a Bramin.
"Wilson, in the instant of his presentation, " perceived a ray of benevolence in his master’s " countenance; nay, fancied, allowing for the " difference of their ages, that he was very like " Colonel Rivers; he therefore resolved to Serve " him with all his heart, until he should come “to a knowledge of his disposition.
. " Jerome was pleased with him but " your Spaniards can ill brook a foreign Savou" rite : he accordingly covered his growing approbation of the unfortunate youth under the " dignity of reserve, and thus Saved him from, a " little million of dangerous enemies.
"Here he dragged on fifteen months of his " existence, till hope itself began to expire; " when one morning, as he worked, his ear " cought certain sounds that fixed him to the " Spot he was on with Surprise and horror.. .It " was, my dear madam, the conspiracy of five " staves to murder and rob his master. The " time when, place where, and means how, he " learned from their indiscretion; for it was not " accident, but the prosecution of his public " talk, which had brought him So near them. " The point was how they would behave, .if " they discovered their error; whether they " would give him his life, or bury the Secret with " their stillettos in his bosom; they, however, " happily departed without perceiving him, and " he retired to ponder on the conduct he should " pursue"
"
tgz C O X H E A T H :
"As he had quitted his labour without leavt " he was forced to counterfeit Sudden indispos “tion. The old gentleman’s humanity w: " touched; he came himself to See him, and ac minister a cordial with his own hand : but the " were not alone. wilson was So much agitai ". ed,, that he could''not bold the glass to his jips
"the benevolent old man did not disdain to affi
¥
“him, when he prested his assisting hand wit " Such earnestnefs, and looked So meaningly u " in his face, that he communicated a fomewh: " of his alarms to his master’s bosom, who wit " great presence of mind cried out. He is dying ‘‘ Run and, call for help. »
"The lad who had sat with him being gone, b ‘‘ told the poor old gentleman in a few words h " danger, who embraced him as his guardiaji " sngel, and wetted him with his tears. — I ha “a Son, who, had he lived, would now hay " been much about your age, cried he; and " might have expected my preservation from Ir, " activity and tenderness. — You have performe "a child’s part by me, and, instead of my stave " Shall Sienceforth be a child to me. — Seven " men coming into the room prevented his Sayin " more, and wilson being pronounced better ^ - " left to his repose.
"THE bloody and diabolical bufiness was to b " accomplished that very night. Fifteen per '" Sons formed his whole family, fiveofwlior " had already conspired against him; and Hea " ven only knew how far the others might b " tampered with. There was, however, n " time to be lost. — He fi^ledted three who stop " highest in his good opinion, and Sent them, t " lee how the poor youth went on, with order
"t
• ^
\
A N O V E L 195
"to call him, if they found him worse. He was much worse, and'don Jerome Slew to his apartr,
"ment.
"He pressed him in his arms; besought him ' " to live for his Sake (for despair had actually thrown him into the condition he at first coun" teffeited); and telling the three Servants the nature of his obligations to Wilson, he asked " them if they would stand by him in his hour of “distress. They declared themselves ready to " die in Such a cause, and engaged to strengthen.
“their party before the evening. So as tobeawe " to give the.tliffians a warm reception. — They " were as good as their word. The five origi nal conspirators were the only foes he had to “fear. The next question was, to take them in " their own toils, and dispatch them, to a man,
“without hesitation or mercy.
"Night arrived. — The poor old gentleman “Shut himldf up for half an hour, wilson ap“ “in.prayer, (tie then repeated his vi“ “My dear boy. Said he, be careful of your “own Safety. A violent death, even to a man " on the verge of the grave ae I am (for I am upwards of Seventy) has its terrors. Nature re,, " at the idea, and bids resillance: I however, would rather fall, than Survive my deli"
"It never struck me till this moment,
J
that it is possible Some fond parent may weep " your loss with the Same aoguifh I have done " the death of my boy. " Your education, ‘ "'your principles, bespeak you born to better “fortune : — but I will inquire into every particular, if I See to'^morrow’s dawn. As to mf wealth, the bait of murder, I will defend it to reward my friends the only value it can have " with one who has not an heir to enjoy it. be vol. II I wir
194 COX H E A T H r
«
ware then, of rushing, unnecestarily into dar “ger. I must embrace you tomorrow morninf “or I shall agonise, not rejoce, at beholding tl “the light. — They parted, and the bloody leer “came on. The poor old gentleman’s friem “difposed themselves judicioussy, and esfedlc “every desired purpose. The russians were a “off, and wilson escaped unhurt. — But Sue " was the shock Don jerome’s nerves had n " ceived, that he Sickened on the morning of h " deliverance, and went off in a few months " a deep decline.
"When he found his dissolution approach,! “called his attendants about him, consisting
his faithful Servants alone, for he would, n " think of adding to his family after the night “assassination;; having a parcel of Ir ** ready prepared in the crown of his hat, 1 “bid them draw, and know their fortune. Tl " !first who put his hand in found himself mail “the house and gardens, with many valuable " ceteras. So Soon as Don Jerome should expii " The Second had a portion of Silver, which gr " tified his utmost wish. Thus every lot ga " satisfaction to the adventurer. — And now W " Son was called upon to read his fate! The p " per he had drawn entitled him only to the waii " coat his master generally wore, and whi " appeared to him to, be almost thread bai " And if you love me, Said the dying Don, yi " will wear it for my Sake. Let me put it " for you, with my tenderest blessing. Here “however, 'my dear hoy, a purse of Spani " gold to pay your passage to the European co " continent, and remember I'rovidence will
your guide and prote6fion, for your care " close my eyes in peace. — He put on the waii
'" CC
A N O V E L 195
"coat to please him, and watched by him all the " night. — At four in the morning he departed., Don Jerome had conjured him to withdraw himselt immediately on his decease, without even taking leave of his companions. He " followed his body to the grave, wherein it was " obliged to be deposited a few hours after his “departure. Shed a pious tear toshis memory, “and walked osf from thence unobserved : and " getting a tattered cloak at.the first village by " way of disguise, he at length, by the dint pf " perseverance and fatigue, reached the sea“ “and was taken on board an Acapulco " kind of packet bound for the Philippine" "
"Having reposed himself a necessary time, he inquired how he should proceed to Europe. “There was no other way, at^that period, tham by advancing farther to the east. In a word, " he was forced to go to China; and being attacked by a fever, lost his passage for that " season.
"The year following he embarked, and canie “with a prosperous gale for near half the voyage; — when a tempest overtook them and re“ “them to the extremity of frusting to the " lonsf boat for Safety. Their provisions ^wefe " ail exhausted, and having no prospedt of escap “ing death, either by famine or'drowning, de" sp.iir sat on every face. What then must Be " their joy on beholding a sail only a few leagues “distant! They strained every nerve to meet " their good fortune, — and the Ship bearing dovyn " in the Same latitude, soon brought them with“ “gun Shot pf her, — She was a portuguese ** bound for lisbon.
L a At
.4
ig6 C O X H E A T H :
"At Lisbon they arrived, where he again toi " a fever; and being kindly Attended by an jt rnan’s daughter in whose house he lodged, t “Don conceived the highest resentment agaii “him; — andin order to be revenged on h " for alienating his child’s aflpedtions from hii " as he called it, before he was perfectly recovf " ed, decoyed him, under pretence of taking t “air, on board a Small chinese trader, then ‘ " the harbour.
. V " It was in vain to remonstrate! To Ch " he went a Second time, and from thence “Bengal, where he was Set on Shore, and me ing by accident with Captain Davies, forn " an acquaintance with him, engaged a past "in his ship, and with a linall venture purcha '" at Pekin returned to England, where Provide “had made him ample amends for all his Sufi " ihgs by restoring him to love and friendship And thus ended this poor young man’s travi But methinks his was a mean reward for Saving of Don jeromo’s life — an old qui satin waistcoat. — He has promised to show it ^and affures us, there is no curiosity in it w ever. — Yet See how gracious, nevertheless, I ven is in all its disstensations! Had he drawn ' house or other local advantage, instead of : being in the arms of his friends, we should p bly have never Seen him more. He Says he re the ‘dd garment, not only for having clipped departed don’s body, but for having been companion of all his distrestes. — I Snail tell yo other news till I write to tell you of lydia’s i tials; So believe me,
Your, Ac.
Ella River
s ■ *
LE
f
  197
letter vm.
»
Now the happy knot is tied,
Lydia is a charming bride I
J ALONE, you must know, accompanied them to church, where Ferdinand waited to give his Sister away. I wish I could do as much tor my dear Mrs. Mildmay; but Mr. Rivers Senior, madam, is totally infenfibki however susceptible you may have found Mr. Rivers junior, and I am quite out of patience with him.i Mrs. Mildmay called me into her closet aff ter breakfast. — " You must, my good girl," Said She, " present this banknote to your stster, as “out of your own pocket money, otherwise it “will be painfully accepted." It was for two hundred pounds. — " There is no going to housekeeping (added she) with an empty purse— — blushed, and thanked me; but I believe suspedted the fountain from whence my bounty Slowed, and immediately, as she thought herself in duty bound, put it in herhushand’s care. — Nor will he abuse the trust. — Ah Don Jerome! Don Jerome! would my Mrs. Mildmay have rewarded me, if I had Saved her life, with nothing bus an old quilted satin petticoat! — I wonder the man, my dear, can rest in his grave. **
Mrs. Wilson returned to Gamp after breakfast, where we shall join her in the afternoon; but her husband was So impatient to enter upon his office, that Mrs. Mildmay could not reful'e him instant posteffion of poor listmore’s accounts, over which he is now poring, in order to render
13 her
ips C O X H E A T H;
her right worthy Service, in return for the obligation she has conferred on him.
The Londoners are reiapsedinto their fashionable distemper, and nothing now is heard of bul the camp influenza. Away they trot it in theii one horse chaise; — grandchildren.. thers, every relative, from the greatest to that least, rush in upon us. The tavern keepers have hardly room for them to take even a temporar) repast; and was you but to See the consumptior of provisions, ‘ you would conclude the animal creation bled for us alone. The royal flag wave: gracefully with the wind, and never was sight fc Sought after, or so enjoyed stnce the days oj Adam.
o Soon as the grand review is oyer, repori Says we are to go into winter quarters. 1 hope rny father’s station will be in the neighbourhooc of Mildmay hall : if not, Lydia and 1 mull change chai afters. I must attend him, and sht must foot he Mrs: Mildmay in my absence. Yoi may Smile, but I am Satisfied she would regret the lots of my company.
You think, I Suppose, Melvin has his share in mv martial resolution. Think so still, and b( deceiv’d. — No, madam; it is for Melvin to follow my lead. I am not yet So unfortunate a damsel as to be jostled on the wrong fide f the question. When I am the man’s wnfe, it is postible 1 may become a part of his baggage; but at present I am both his and your humble Servant— — a distance.
My father — You would be delighted to Sec
how happy lydia’s marriage has made him. -- -- -- --
Well; who shall pretend to read the page of Futurity? If I had had millions to Sport with, thej would ail have gone on the lay of my being first
dilposed
/
A N O V E L 199
disposed of; but the poverty of her Swain, instead of proving, according to the customs of the world, a bar to their union. Was the very circumstance that promoted it, Vet, to See what differ' rent effects flow from the Sime cause! ferdinand’s being poor is his disqualification. I hate riddles, and therefore leave this in the hands of Time; only wishing the unravelling may be propitious.
But where is the congratulatory letter I ex — pefted, I demanded? Am I to Spin out my poof brains for your amusement? or, what is to the. full as laborious a talk, dress up every little tale of woe or felicity into an absolute history, and receive not even the reward of fair words? Neither the plea of indolence, or of businefs, will on this occasion be admitted : So take up your pen, and do your duty like a good girl. curiosity may, however, be a more powerful incentive with you than the desire of obliging. Then mark rne! V This is the last epistle, either interesting or gee, historical or chit-chat, you shall have from me, unless you condescend to write me a longish,, handsomeish, pleasantish letter, as a general answer to, and general congratulation of,
t
Your
* *
Ella Rivers.
f -
. f •
9 • fc r '
'• t, i '
J - L E T
200
\
\
LETTER IX
\
r
w RITING, my dear Ella, is your talent your delight; and a variety of Subjects court you pen. You choose and refuse as humour dictates and 1 receive ■with gratitude whatever has th gooci fortune to engage your attention. Boris in character for my Sais friend So abundantly t Seel her Superiority, and extort a letter from st barren Soil I inhabit, merely as a soil to her el? gant performances? — Be it so, then; but as yo know my heart, you can much better concei^ than I can express, the joy I feel on the chan^ in lydia’s fate. — Poor, sweet girl! the usele tears she has fhcd! But they are'all done away ■ — and if youf new brcother is the yputir )stud Scribe hirhy She will be duo of the happiest: Wiv in his majesty’s dorhinions.
Mv father came home, last nfght III a penss' ■ state of mind. I did not at first distinguish it fro diffatisfaftkin. He feid, " he hast heard* rive. ** was Such a fool as to flight all the overtur ** Mrs. Mildmay made him. He was a Stoic.
Sstch a fortune might have charms for him, ** the woman had been a dowdy; which was ** far, however, from being the cafe, that 1 ** did not believe there was a more perfect ere " ture on earth, ’
I MADE no reply.
"Do you think his principles of honour a " So rigid, as not to marry her merely becau ** all the wealth is on her Side
"IVERII
.J'
  ao^t
r" I VERILY believe it."
"Indeed !"
"Indeed." '
He paused again.
"I CANNOT account for his bshaviour that " way, neither.",
"shr !" Saidl, wishing to come at the knowledge of what was pasilng in his mind.
"The boy," continued he, " would have
told tales, however Secret the father. — No,
“no; they have both treated me ill, and 1 will ^
despise them."
"Dear Sir," Said L ** if I might but Speak “without offending you."
"Speak, and fear not."
We were interrupted; Ella, in this very critical, this Seemingly moult propitious moment, by the arrival of the parson of the parish.
The back gammon tables were called for, and I was forced to retire. — Pity my weakness;; I have wept my supposed disappointment for these two hours. All uncertain as it is, what might have been the consequence of the explanation i was resolved to‘give him I
On revolving the whole matter I begin, however, to be of opinion, that a personal disc'usiion' is not So eligible as a literary one. He might frown me from my purpose; or, what is worse, terrify me into a misrepresentation of the interesting fasts I was about to relate. On Some occa ■ Sions the omistion, nay, the transpofition, of a Single word is fatal. I should never have the cou' ' to proceed, if he betrayed either displeasure.;
, or impatience.
• • ’,. ■ e 0
■; I. 5 /;. ■ I mus te?
f'
202 COXHEATH :
I MUST condemn Mr. rivers’s punftilios, let them lesult from whatever honourable motives. Melvin has his consent, though the ceremony is delayed. I have no doubt, be assured, of your swain’s constancy; but when once people are come to a proper understanding on certain Subjects, and have no impediments in the way, I Hold not retard the concluston, if I was the wife res— — a rea fluttering girl! Let Melvin, however, look to it I — But should you play him a stippery trick, I Should place your levity Solely to YOU! father’s account, with his farfetched decorums!! — Camp air, my dear, has not fof iened him!
Ferdinand destres to See my letters! — Poor Ferdinand! They would only discredit me in your good opinion. — I have not let concealment, with shakespear’s beautisully delicate maiden, prey on •my damask cheek, — I blush, Ella; at the recollection of what I have written; yet must flatter rny Self Ferdinand knows my turn of mind too well, to put a wrong construftion on my tenderest epithets. I have called him my brother, friend! — And has he not been both to me? the companion of my pleasant, the sharer of my Serious hours? To him I owe every mental accomplishment I possess;; taste for the Sublime; mv admiration of the Simplicity of Nature, and nature’s production;; acquaintance with moral, with entertaining, with liberal authors; my common Sense in all the articles of private conduct— — I hasten to quit a Subject on which I always lose myself, and shall only repeat, that my tenderest friendship and Sympathy await you all. — You cannot communicate a joy I shall not feel, or touch a string of Sorrow without wounding my Sensibility.
If
A; N O V E L 205
If Mrs. Wilson should not deem writing to a. young friend incompatible with the dignity of a wife, I shall be happy to receive a line from her Sweet Self to make me new o’er, as Shakespeare phrases it, what I am already, a Daughter of Felicity on her account. Her language is all gentle,, generous. Soft; but yours variegated by the various sensations that fapidly feizie, and rapidly, pafs over your mind. ■ — You are, nevertheless, a, very tolerable girl, and
1.
I am, '
- /
With much affection, Ac.
: C FLETCHER, il
* ■ '. *
\
-.
« ■ ' ^ ' ■ y % '
'- - ^
*
J
* t.
^ ‘ 1 ^
N - -
. X i ' ■ * » ' • %
. ' ' ' a, - ' •, T ■ 1
■ ^ .D' ^ i. - s •
>•
LETI
204 cox HE A TILL
•. ■. 'f
. V. S.
'LET E R X
^ \ >
So cold, f chilling cold I
»■ fc
X OLERABLE! — A very pretty kind of a lukewarm phrase that! — Tolerable I quotha. — I wi Sh, however, my dear madam, 1 could return the compliment; but the truth is, you are very f«tolerable; and take notice, I - Shall henceforth write much rather to please myself, than an unthankful, peevish. super refined damsel, who does not know what She would bo at'; istbo Squeamifh to answer a plain question; and, instead of Yes or no No, leads the imagination a dance through all the mazes and meanders of salse delicacy, leaving your own ingenuity to be your only clue to extricate you theresrom. You may make a very eligible and exemplary wise, with all this falalijl) nefs about you; but, take my word for it, you ' are a very dull correspondent; and to Mss. wilson I refer you for every insormation in Suture, My clerical admirer Sancies he gains ground in my affections; and has So fine a hard head of his own, or rather is So intoxicated with self-love, that he suspefts not he has a rival. He paces it on his little poney by my fide, or rolls languish ingly in a corner of my benesaftress’s coach, when admitted to that honour; Slugs ar me; flatters my foibles, my desefts; for is you would believe him, I am the whole and foie objects of his thoughts, his wishes, and his cares. He was a laughable creature at first, but is become downright troables'ome.
Lord
\
A N O V F L zo
. lord'bra7 en has done himself the honour to write to me. Hearts, darts, and all the sweet jingling of sweet words is contained in his epistle!! — hears he has competitors.
Tis heaven’s own fault that made me like the fun.
The reasonable worship of mankind.
All that he is prepared for : but woe be on his head who wins the prize from him! — Heaven, earth. Seas and mountains shall be roused ihshi$ cause, to punish, to crush his arrogancre. ^ — Mr, Rivers is, however, shtreated ivt jdken ttxfiis tift watch over his lise, his love; .r — and thus! Hope shu will learn to Subscribe to my consequence,
■ Wilson is a'fin€ ipirited fellow. He wants my f; atherto buy a Majority, ahd, patriarch like, would pledge himself to serve feven years for the Rachel he ha s obtained— — plain English, would Stand debtor to Mrs,. Mildmay for the' money, .to be paid by instalments. — " Will you, Sir, not " give a young man some encouragement? — 1 “accepted my life at year hands uncohditionally; "'I ask you only so oblige me, by using a few •" poundis of mine. Surely, if you can think the ** latter an obligation, you treble the weight ** you have laid ort my poor shoulders, excluuve " of your last great gift, your Lydia. — Would you, could you. Sir, bestow her oh a young " fellow you disdain to' receive an acknpwledge ** merit from, for all your kindness?
My father insists upon it, that it is shore honourable for him to dlose his military life as a Subaltern, than buy himself into dignity. — " When. " commishons," Said he, " are Set up to Sale the man who toshhdst 'shobej vvill ever be con • ‘ ' ' stdered
fto6 C O X H E A T H :
V fidered to have the most merit; let the guilty ** therefore, blush— — will never receive promo tion, but at the hands of my Sovereign, as a " noonday compensation for the toils I have sustained in his service."
Mrs. Mild mat applauds this reasoning: : to prove how very ready She is to trust the young steward with her property. She says, he may command the loan of a thousand guineas, whenever he can prevail oh Ferdinand to purchase— — " dinand shall not," she says, " wait the slow " reward of virtue, but conform to the custom of the times, and purchase his way to a generalship."
Hjere ferdinand’s modesty puts in his caveat: He hopes to be Mrs. mildmay’s Chaplain yet before he dies; the Field has not the charms for him, it has for many young men; and it would be his highest ambition to enjoy a comfortable Living."
"God and Nature," said this dear woman, " implants an election in our hearts, that it i" " it is impiety, to resist; and Since he " will not be a General, he shall be a Bishop."
My father replied in the language of Sancho Pancha, " that he much feared, if Heaven was " to rain mitres, whether any one of them would ** fit ferdinand’s head."
"Then I beg," faidi, " I may recommend " my clerical adorer to your patronage, madam;
for lawn steeves, I am persuaded, are included " in his Pater Noster, as well as they constitute ** a part of his Litany — his Wehefeechihee, azp My father called me a mad girl, and bid me not be profane. — " It isfo difficult, my dear, ’' said he, " to draw the line on some subjects, and Separate iht man from the tckt, that we should
A. N O V E L 207,
** be cautious, left, whilst we onl}' mean to ridi cule the one, we Should Scandalise the other."
I Felt thejustice of the rebuke, and made him an acknowledging bow.
So warm and boisterous a firing is kept up since.. expectation of the Scrvereign, that my poor ears cannot reconcile themselves to Softer Sounds than the roaring of guns, and the clalhing of Swords; and I more than ever exclaim.
Oh what a charming thing’s a Battle!
For do but think, how glorious, how delightful it mult be, to mow down whole files of brave, " fellows at a Stroke! — Limbs scattering, brains flying 1 — Let me then repeat the above quoted; line,
Oh what a charming thing’s a Battle 1
I
My father, it seems, on his first Starting in life, formed a friendship ofas glowing and iiluslri ous a kind, as ever was recorded in any annals — no insult to the names of the Pylades’ and oresles* who may have existed since the Flood.
They both bore arms under the command of General Wolf, of immortal memory, and both made the campaign with him, in which that Hero fell. Heaven wipe the subsequent dishonour from the British page I Say I, in the true Spirit of Semale patriotism. ■
In the heat of battle, every Commander, from the halbert to the truncheon, has business enough on his hands, if they have but judgement enough _ to execute it. The word was given for my father’s corps to advance. He did advance, and, obeyed the martial fiat in its utmost latitude, i,. though
\
fc
1
208
though he beheld his beloved friend fall, and a party push forward, who, he was satisfied must trarhple him to death, if his wounds were not mortal, — He shuddered — the big tear stole down his manly°cheek : his own life he would have freely offered up in the attempt to save his friend; but he must have done more. — The very effort would have thrown his corps, if not the whole wung he belonged to, into contusion. All the brave fellows he beheld must perhaps have been lost — his honour too! — He tore himself from the spot, and left him, alas! to perish in the general carnage.
The battle over, duty gave place to friendship. His wound in this engagement was a slight one. Having yielded to the positive injunctions of his captain, to have it dressed, he flew back to the field, to Seek out his friend amongst the many dead bodies. The uniform the same made his search a difficult one, uritil a ring with a picture in jt, familiar to his sight, pointed him out to htms — Ganl finish the drawing? — He was wounded in three places, but had suffered more by being trod under foot, than by the cannon’s mouth. One of his fine eyes was perished; the other languished in its socket— — well-known voice of Rivers
• e
gave his' soul a momentary sensation of pleasure;; he had come too late, except to let him have the felicity of expiring in his arms. — He died, madam, and my father returned to his tent in the Utmost difconfolation, having first committed the care of the body to a faithful dfummer, who pledged himself to defend it from outrage, and convey it to the first town for decent interment, at rny father’s expense.
. This seen, together with the cutting off of his adored commander. Wolf, should, one would Suppose, have given my father a difrelish for the C martial
A: N O V F L 2©^
martial profeslion. — But no : he remembered the innumerable accidents that attend humanity. Had his friend been a fpotdftnan, his horse might have have thrown him; an alderman, his luxuries might have Shortened his days; a courtier, burnt champaign might have been his bane; a — -- -- But I
Shall enumerate no more of his resleftions; only tell you, that he argued down his regrets into resignation, and resolved the chance of war into the common chance of existence: so forming new friendships, prepared new wounds for his sensibility;; from choice, as well as a nice regard for man’s opinion, has persevered in his first election and will live and die, I verily believe a Soldier.
If I had a taste for melancholy stories, how rapidly could I let them fall from my pen! But melancholy stories are the bane of vivacity, and vivacity is the vital of my composition, and Shall be cherished by me as such.
Sometimes, indeed, when melvin’s features are beaming with benevolence, of which he possesses a plentiful portion, - ifowu i cannov confine the frightful wanderings of my imagination: yet, be of good cheer; we shall have no bloody noses this campaign; and as a peace is the general object with.francie, America, and engs<wid, from their ebbing finance, shattered trade, and endangered possessions, it is a strong article of my Christian faith, that peace wils be patched up before the return of the season for taking the field. And admitting that the patchwork cannot .hold together, Ferdinand will, nevertheless, be enabled to make am bonoufahle retreat; and having resumed the clerical character, vvill have bid a final adieu to every hostile manoeuvre and hostile pretensron.
I congratuliate vou on Your agreeable prospect, and particularly on the Fel axe at i on oi
your
^10 C O' X TI E A T H :
your father’s wrath; towards my poor harmlefe family. May the fit of lenity, contrition, or by what other name you choose to distinguish it, increase upon him until it attains a happy crisis
- paid me a visit at my toilette this morning, and looked so much in the Abelard ft)le, so sweetly distrefied, and so tenderly pensive, I could not forbear indulging him, unasked, with asight of your lasl letter; — the worst, by the bye, you ever wrote me : for it is flimsy, linfy woolfey — neither rhime nor reason; and yet a Somewhat of both. You can be nervous and pathetic, is you please; but this was not your hour pf inspiration.
He nevertheless behaved in Such a manner, that had I been the next heir to a large fortune, I would have taken out a Statute of lunacy against him:. He kisted the dear, dear name; and hung on each fender word. Syllable by Syllable. It was jau en'ehantrhent, insatuation, folly; and I at length gazed upon him a few moments, then laughing from my free lungs roused him into re? collection. He is my brother, madam, and I have aright to treat him with what familiarity I please. — As your lover, you may exalt him into a divinity, is you please;; then fall down and worship the melted calf you have Set up. But pardon me; you musl not hope to lead me aslray jn the paths of idolatry. I know him weak, frail, doting; — he is, however, your own true lover, and you will paint him in what colourings shall Seem bell in ycjur Sight; and soul befall the woman that could attempt to obscure the painted cloud that beautifies your days!
Wilson has already attained Such a height in Mrs. mddmay’s esteem, that I fear the poor fellow’s head should grow giddy. It is not every one
who,
1
A NOV E L 211
who can look down from an eminence with a Steady eye and a sure footing. He has, according to ■ her account, the best understanding, and the best heart in the world; is her Cicijbeo on all occastons. — " We Shall hear what Mr. Wilson lays to " it. — We will appeal to a clearer judgement than
our own. -- -- Mr. Wilson will be so good as
to guide us." — I, however, have none of this farfetched humility, but take upon me to fet him right when I think him wrong, with a " Pray, good Sir, don’t suppose yourself infallible! Mrs. Mildmay is as partial to you as She " is to me; therefore learn to make a proper ". use of her kindness. By telling you what yoii are not, She instrufts you what you ought, to be; and your own conscience must be your " mirror, as it is your fister’s to fet your mind " by, and discover to you your own destcien ** cies. — To mean well, is a great step towards ** doing well : — but though it may be imposiible " for my weak sexto accomplish so great a work as perfection of character, it would be a high resleftion on you, a Lord of the creation, to " to be found stopping Short of less than perfeft.’* « ytie rallies me with much pjeafantry on these occasions; begs me, like the crab’s daughter in the fable, to Show the way, and promises to follow.,
But wherefore do I dwell So long on Such a ^ trifling Subject?? — is very well, for a fister’s husband; and as Such I confider him : but I must choose a nobler theme for the exercise of my fine talents, or I Should ill deserve the name of
r'
• z.
Your friend, Ac.
Ella Rivers.
i. LET'
212
LETTER XI
*
1 ought to gfleve, but cannot what I ought
TV/TRS. MILDMAY has written a sweet, sensible, explanatory epislle to Lord Brazen; Setting forth my reasons for loving the insinuating Melvin, together with her reasons for espoufing his interest, and entreating him not to excite my father to an opposition that would unavailingly interrupt the friendship and the filial peace at pre feht Subsisting amongst us; and wishing him a more Siuitable bride.
How it will work on his fine or hss rough feelings, I know not; but if I read him right, he will not sit down So well Satisfied with what he may conceive an indignity, as is necessary to our repose; yet let him struggle as he may, it will only pull the knot of his mortification tighter. — We are incapable of being shaken in our resolves, and can distinguish the difference between a diamond and a Scotch pebble. — A lucky hit That! — for you must observe, the Brazens are most of them of Scottish extraction.
N ‘ "This steek Chaplain, my adorer, should my Lord take it in his head he is the man I have cho leh, may perhaps be brought to Smart for his presumption— — pardon me! but 1 will flirt it a little with him, in order to give Some colour to Such a suspicion; for I know Melvin to have a " Soul made of fire," your Americans and Africans being almost equally Children of the Snn; and I should tremble for the consequence, is he was to become the mark of Lord brazen’s resentment,
We
  213
We beauties have a time of it, my dear! The men are naturally hotheaded, and given to. broils; they will fight; and as Addison Says, So I believe there are few quarrels without a woman in them. — And for the very reason he alligns too, — That nothing elfe is worth quarrelling about. — Should this fatal face of mine, however, draw any fellow of merit into a Scrape, I Should be feriously punished for the innocent gaiety of my heart; and it will be exactly the same thing, whether I am a dowdy or an Helen, if your masculine wretches choose to constitute me a bone of contention. — But 1 fly this subject, or I should loon be as dull as a pasfi ng bell.
Well, and how does Sir Ferdinand find hhn felf? — Is his fit of compnnftion over, for thp
sins he has committed against my family? -- or
does he hold himself ready to beg pardon when opportunity shall offer.
I HAVE a question to ask you. — You cannot doubt my friendship, you must not doubt my resolution; for am I not the daughter of a foluier? — Do you imagine it might not be a forwarding of the wish of your heart respecting Ferdinand, if 1 was to smile on this Lord? — Lady Brazen .t Would not such a sound, think you, tickle the old baronet’s ears ?- — If so, you may command me. But there is no time to be lost : his offended dignity may be appeased, but it must be appeased on the instant — — Speak then to this point by the return of post, or — for ever after be Silent.
I HAVE seen the old w^stcoat. On my word a notable legacy! — It is green satin lined with green Silk, and bequilted at a Violent rate. — 1 thought the hot countries would not admit of Such heavy garments. Wilson, indeed, affirms, that it is light as taffeta, and that the heaviness is only
in
214
in the eye : but all he says does not pafs with me (or gospel— — hope you will have ocular demonstration of his absurdity in this particular, in less than Seven years distance from the present period.
■ ' .1 ■ ' ■
Frailty, thy name is Woman.
Mrs. Lisimore has So effectually burled one husband, that She is already casting about for another. My benefaftrefs was petrefied at the news; but as She lets every one be happy their own way, the lady w’ill receive her good leave to play the fool and marry. Since such is her heart’s 'desire. <
Isay not a word, however, in condemnation 'of second marriages. We all have our private opinions in these matters. - The afseftions, Madam, cannot be locked up by an event that le 'stores them to freedom — as one may say. There is no companionablenefs inuhe grave; and such is the censorious temper of the world, that you can enjoy the conversation of a male on no other terms than honourable, unfcandalized. I have it in contemplation, therefore, to raise a report, by way of a quickener to the nuptials I am anxious should take place; and by persuading a worthy couple the Camp whisper. is, that they ought to be man and wife, render thern foin re<^lity.
There is no living on martial ground without learning to aft the engineer on occasion' — My mine shall be dexterously planned, the combustibles judiciously disposed, and Swill have an especial eye to my own safety. Mildmay Hall is so Sweet a place, that methinks, as Swift says,
■ -- -- — — ’twould found more clever.
To hitny (meaning my father) and to his heirs for
ever';
meaning
A N; 0 V : ECL. 215
meaning myself ■ Ferdinand, and Lvdia; '
and -- -- -- Fill up the space to your own fancy
you are heartily welcome, I can affure you, madam.
Your father hears tales of my father! I Should be glad to know through what channel; — does the Public then join names together, which Fatej perhaps will ever keep ajunder. — Rivers and Mildmay? — ’.ds a conjunction, igrant.you, devoutly to be wished; but I fear they will be found retrograde planets, and by an invisible attraction, be ever more on the point of uniting, but stili pursue a different course.
Gapt. James Brazen is, it Seems, a dis (lant relation of my lord’s; and being the medium of his condescending remembrance of us, is crept into our acquaintance. The parson and he debate on law, on physic, on divinity; on eacst of which Subjects, like the fiddlers in nero’s time, he Subscribes to his patron’s Superiority; for every great man may become, if he is not already, a. patron; and he is armed at all points in the cause of sels interest.
I SOMETIMES think, that. spaniel like, he is only doing his master’s bidding, in the court ‘ he pays to your humble Servant; and that instead of an admirer, I Shall find him a Spy on my conduct. I clearly recollect, that our acquaintance' commenced immediately on Lord brazen’s departure. IS So, I shall be counterworked with a wit' nessinall my little Schemes.
How harmicss do we females decide pur controversies! if scolding fails, we only pull caps, or fall foul on each other’s reputations, untie the' ' of secrets, and lay open the foibles of our late bofom friends, to the knowledge, inspection, and judgement of the whole circle of our intimates : ^
;. ’ the
ai CD X HEATH:
the males force their opponents into fearful comi bats, and, forgetful
What dangers do environ
The men who meddle with cold iron,
will accept of no satisfaction, but such as the Sword can give. Hence'the offender often triumphs over the offended — the amiable, the good. — But w€ will talk no more of it.
We dined yesterday at the Lodge with Mr. and Mrs. Wilson. It was always a delightful spot;; Lydia has much improved it by her taste for. flowers, and her unexampled neatness. I thought her a good girl, but never Sufpefted her of thedo^ mestic talents She displays. She loves and honours, her husband as a wise ought to love and honour him, but can remember that there are hours enough in the twenty-four to bedear him, without surfeiting the ears of her company with inch fugar plutn epithets. I do not, indeed, say, there is any rule without an exception; butin nineteen cases out of twenty, you will find the assertion hold good, ' that She who labours to exhibit her conjugal tenderness, is either a hypocrite, or a Shrew at heart,
. and makes the poor man pay in private for all the homage he receives in public. No very comfort table coriipromise, in shy sense of things! But I will adopt a quite opposite conduct, and Melvin Shall applaud my wisdom and my delicacy, or he. is no husband for me. I Shall take care to have a Saving clause, a mental reservation, when I make my matrimonial vow that shall be a Salvo for my con Science, is I break it as to the article of reverence, on discovering I have been imposed upon. Melvin will lead me to church with all the Lovesand Graces in his train: he will profess himself .my
eternal
a:, n o y E L
eternal debtor; that his lise Shall be a fucceslion of gratitude, of fubmisfion to my sovereign will. Now I only ask you, if It would not be both jusl and reasonable, on his changing, for me to change also;; as he grows into the husband in roughness, in tyranny, in disliumour, for me to dwindle into the wife in petulance, in opposition, in carelessnefs? Give your worst of thoughts, your worst of words on the subject;; herewith send you the necessary dispensation: but I will deal fp far candidly with you as to tell you, that, my resolves will remain the same, let your sentiments be for or against them — Find me such another open dealing damsel, if you can.
- A' '.
am, as usual, i Your.
I
i ' ■. ■ [.
. Ella Rivers, '
• t
•*

4 ’
■f ‘ ^
V
- : ' ^ K. * '
'A - y ^
\
wol.ii. K LED'
'X HEATH;.
L E T T E R XII
- ’ >4*
IL S ON so parades It about Mr. .Rivers — ^ is so dutiful, and so respectful, and lb attentive, that we, his natural offspring, appear as nothings in the comparison— — again,. Mr. rivers is So happy, and so blested, and so thankful, to provi ■ dence, for giving, him such a Son, that poor ferdinand’s merits are lost, in the blaze of his brother; in law’s deservings.
Lydia sees all this with delighted eyes. If she loved him forfnerly for being a pretty fellow, she now loves him for. being a good one. — " He has so winning a why with him, there is no resisling him; and, except a preference we must re joice in, has an equal affection for us all." Well said, Lydia !'^ — Sing forth your hushand’s b praises, if it Shall so please you; but allow me to disfent from your fuper refined notions. It is art, downright, dexterous, insidious art, that carries him the lengths he goes in my father’s favour; — and you are a tame animal of a wife to be satisfied with only the second place in his heart : your father, child, evidently poffesses the first. Yet let me do the fellow justice.: he has lest forrie very decent compliments to be presented by me to my fair friend, and hopes there is an hour in store, when he Shall pay them personally. Credulous Simpleton! — But he has trod fairy ground ever since he arrived amongst us; nor can I wish to have him difenchanted.
Annette and her Lubin are wedded. She xisits, but swill no more take up her residence
in
A KOVEL. 215
•i
in Camp, but he looks after the dairy, — a kind of lodge in the mid St of the park, — where all our treasures in the milk, cheese and butter way are deposited, and is the mosl docile and most grateful of beings; and, as I have told you, lo Soon as the wars are over, Lubin is to get his discharge, and either occupy his paceable trade of a slioe shaker, or have Some rural appointment at the halt
With Such a companion to tend a few sheep.
V
would, I verily believe, be the height of annette’s ambition.
What a contrasted life mine is! — At mild may hall the primitive times Seemed revived! — Bleating Stocks and lowing herds increase the beauty of the seen— — is innocence and sweet Simplicity. — Mrs. Mildmay is the queen, the parent of the seen— — — is beheld, she is consi vdered, as the second Providence of her attendants;
Their lav her eye, their oracle her tongue;
and is the heartfelt joy of all her acquaintance.
■ At the Camp all is bustle and eonfusion. “The Bobadils strut, the drawcansirs stare, and the Fribbles trip Hoarl'e sounds of every kind astail the ear; — the thunder of the artillry, the crackling of the carbines, the crowding of the spectators, with their marvelings, their wranglings, and their
difgusts -- -- there is no possesting one’s own
mind a moment, or asicing yourself one cool, one Serious question.
Apropos of Camp! The little boy I mentioned to YOU, whose mother lay in of twins, is no w
V
V
220 C O X H F. A T H:
School at Mrs. klildmay’s expense. She has, moreover, bespoke a christ’s tiospit. i presentaii, on for him. So loon as he attains the appointed age for admislion; and I should not wonder, he, is lo promising in every res'peot, if he should become a great man.
Old people and children are the favourite objects with Mrs. Mildmay; the helplestness of the one, and the unprotected State of the other, pleading irresistibly to Such a mind as hers, for all that humanity and beneficence can do to soften the miseries, and obviate the dangers of those particular charaofers. -- -- -1 fancy the Author of a
book entitled Millifinium hall, boircwed his bell thoiio^hts from this belt of women, and concealed under his fictions the wonders of her goo’dnefs. — She is, my dear madam, wholly unostentatious, and Seeks neither fame or reward beyond her own confcioufners of having, as she phrases it, perr formed her duty. — The man of Ross, so Sweetly; lung by Mr. Pope, is her counter part; though she is angry if you tell her so.
She hates Parson Sleek as much as I do, from believing he hides the Voluptuary and the Libertine behind his Sacred function; and that though he honours the Deity with'his lips, his heart is far from him. She is a woman of penetration,
and cannot be deceived by appearances. -- -- -- The
postman is coming up the avenue -- -- -- A letter for
me I hope! — I despair, — I hope again; for I am requested by Mrs. Mildmay to attend her.
I AM shocked, I am alarmed beyond measure I — Lord Brazon is, the very Lord Brazen I apprehended we Should fiad him. — He resents in the
most
  221
moult approbrious terms (though addrestlng a lady)
the affront he has met with; -- the injustice,
the Scorn, the ridicule and boldly adds, that a day of chastisement will come for thole who deserve it; when they Shtll be drawn from their covert into noon day contempt, and be Scourged for their ill manners to a man of sashion, and every way their Superior.
L Mrs. Mildmay laments we did not temporise longer: but 1 rather with we had dealt ingenuously by him in the tirit instance. The affair would have been over and past; whereas it now wears a threatening aspect— — Ferdinand, my father — I fear for each, for alt of them; they are my vulnerable part, and Heaven preserve it from a wound I
But you Shall read the right honourable morsel
'**
I AM Sorry to find a lady of fortune and fashion capable of low cunning and base hypo"
"— -- Wheri at Coxheath Camp, who
"such a favourite with you as Lord Brazen? " And you musl pardon Lord Brazen, if he " observes, your favour in that quarter was no " dishonour to your taste, your understanding, “or your character"
"the fullesl confidence of your friendship " and approbation. Lord Brazen changed his Situation. — His Majority drew him to Warley ** Common; but his heart remained at Mildmay" Hall. He toasted the lady of his wishes on all occasions, though the daughter of a lubaltern; " and was wilfully blind to overtures of the mosl " flattering Species, for her fake.,
K 3 " All
222
** All his hopes are however, blasted! He " has, it seems, been (ported with: but by all “that is gracious, the jest Shall be keenly turned " on his mean adversaries. He can pull a little " rascal by the nose without losing his temper, " and whip a schoolboy into better manners, " without falling from his own dignity.
Mrs. Mildmay may remember, that the “West Indies is'more eminent for wealth, than high blood : — Planters and lords are not the ** growth of the same soil. — Money, indeed, is " an excellent fuller’s earth, but will not wash " out a blotch in a family efcutcheon, though it " may confound distinction, in the opinion of ** the vulgar. — By heaven. Lord Brazen will repay scorn with shorn I The yellow clay is ap parent in Mrs. mildmay’s conduct, bespeaks" " origin, and proves the parent stock from " whence she Sprung. — But perhaps there may " be, as brave and as illustrious persons in the " world as her minion, her idol, her doting piece. — It is easy to See by a little, what a great deal means. — She is welcome to bestow her " person on whom she pleases i — but she will be " prudent, enough to caution her boys not to behave ill to. their betters.
"If Mr. Rivers had the Spirit of a mouse, he would assume the reigns, and be master of " his own family. — But, perhaps, his tameness" " the key t Mrs. mildmay’s treasury; and it may be convenient for a needy man to have " hundreds at command. — He shall be known, " however, for what he is; — a malcontent— — " reffiler of his sovereign— — bold, an aspiring" -" haughty fellow, who looks with a jaundiced " eye on every, advancement a person of merit ‘‘ rises to.
As
4
A.': 'N p V E L 233
As for the young; ladyj ilie is a flirt — a paint’* eel doll— — pert insignificant girl — lifted out of f‘ herlelfby she. Solly; of a gpd^mother, who will " let her tumble into theshirt, to prove her tenr -" dernefs; and who might efnee, but never must " hope for such a thing again, have made her " a lady, (and the wife of an insulted, a generous, > an enamoured man of fasliion, who can only
"fubferibe himself her astonished and satisfied
^ - - -
‘^ fervaov
** Brazen.'’*
- there’s a Lord for you! This letter must, L however, be cautiousty kept from Mr. Rivers eye, or perhaps tstci tables would be. turned, and ^ ■ repentance be his lordship’s portion.
What a noise the affair would make, if it vvas to get abroad! — artd’then these young heads would, I fear, be unable to contain themselves!! — God! how little did I foresee my Camp expedition would end in duelling — in bloodshed I — But these vainshoasters are often miserable doers: There is the coward in every word that
has fallen from his pen. -- -- The thought revives
me! — he was on the Spot, he durst not, / dare answer for it, so much as open his mouth. — I will drink deep of this cordial, and put my trust itj Providence, who guards the good, punishes • the evil, and Sets up certain chrafters for marks of divine displeasure, of divine vengeance.
k4 Oh
A '
224
Oh howl could now Sigh for the happy shades of Somersetshire! the peaceful, the tranquil, thd retired Scene 1 — But it wilb not be; and’ 1 niusl for onee Siibl cribe rny Self
• ■ ' I -
Your unhappy
Ella'rivers.
<•>0 r ■<»>. imt' u iwm III I ■
'■ - p. i
L E ir T E R XIII
f
i... ■ ‘ ^ - r
0 t'
'N '•
xi E, now, now I begin r feel I — Ferdinahd^ with a face as pale as ashes, has been here to lool^ for Mdvin — — Melvin Spent the evenisig yesterday at a tavern, and Captain Jarnes Brazreri was one of the party. ■ '
Aty lord’s name was mentibned. — His relation extolled him to the shiesthe most generous of men, the best bred, the best rhade, the finest gen -- tleman in the kingdom! — Melvin Sshiled sarcas* ticaily:
"Do you Smile at me, Sir ?" was the word.
"Not I, Sir," Said Melvin; " but I Smile.
You Smile insolently, Sir!"
"You lose your temper, Sir, ” Said Melvin; ** and it must be pretty plain to the company,
** how
A N O V E L 225
"however well-bred your noble relationmay be, ** you are not his relation in that particular." You Shall answer this. Sir," said B razen.
At any time you please," repled Melvin, ** when we are alone. Our friends would of • " course interpose, if we proceeded farther be -- " fore them."
"A GOOD excuse 1"
I WISH to be excused at this conjuncture, for I cannot brook even the appearance of cowardice." -,
Cowardice!"
"Yes, cowardice; fori wear nol my daggers in my mouth— — we clone, Sir ?"
Give me the example; and if it is a discreet" " said Captain Brazen, I will condescend" " follow it." ■
No more p..sted in the tavern. — Early in the morning, Ferdinand, having received this ac.. repaired to melvin’s tent. — He was abroad — at exercise— — Servant could not tell.
"How was he dressed?" ?"
"his regiment a I frock."
Did he ero out on foot or on horsebick
o
** He had his horse, and might poshbly b gone to Mildmay hall."
. " O. IMPOSSIBLE !" Saici my brother: he V never left the Camp before without telling the wherefore." — But recollecting himself, he added, left the fellow fhoakl spread the alarm,, " I fancy I Shall be able to find him, though he " has given rne the Slip."
, To mildniay hals he came; and, as his mind foretold, no Melvin was there. I Saiily placed the blubbering girl; imputed every evil consequence to my indiscretion;; was So unguarded;, that if Mrs. Mildmay had not absolutely Stopped
K 5 m J
2-26
my rhouth, though it was the last thinfit I wished mould reach his knowledge, I Should have blabbed about the letter — brazen’s letter.
I PROTEST," said Mrs. Mildmay, there never was such a couple upon earth — riding ** forth to meet grievances, and feeding each " other’s whims 1 1 beg I may hear no more of it. ** The young man has Some affair of gallantry, " perhaps, upon his hands; and as matters Stand, the brother is as unfit a confidant as the sister" " will find him returning with that face of ** fair seeming he carries about with him, and so ** will ive him credit for whatever tale he tells A you. But beware of counterfeits, say I, as well as the good' natured Quacks in our newspapers."
Ferdinand Shook his head, and 1 kissed her hand, to thank her for the goodhefs of her intention; but my heart was too full to speak;; my brother hurried away for better intelligence.
What will become of me? — Should our conjectures prove well founded! — Alas! he may by this time be beyond our care — dead! — a sacrifice to my fatfe politi cs, my levity !• — My good, gbod girl, never depart from the line you have hitherto pursued! Your own reproaches will be the bitterest torments you can incur! — No, let fate or fortune do its worst. Secure your own breast from th. arrows of felf condemnationi.
'Twelve o’clock.
t
No tidings either of Melvin or my brother! — ■do )ou; not pity nae J — 1 ahathe; wreck of Such
'happiness
A N O V .E U a2, 7
kappiness as few, mortals are permitted to taste;.
but It is in mercy denied them. -- -- All good and.
evil, the wise ones tell tis, is from comparison;;. or aggravated, as the Scale preponderates to This or That. — Then what a wretch musl I s "be, — tumbled from Such an eminence! — ah.rae| b csignation, as Sciolto says of death,,
Is not the stoic’s leston learn’d by.rote.
tri ^
Now is your turn to.trium.ph I — Your monitor r is lost— — to every, dictate. of pastence — of.en durance~of —
y.. -. ' ■
But he is come! — I see him riding up to the house I — don’t Show this letter to any one, Icon pure you I — I will deny it'all. — concern’d about. Mclyin !'A likely Story truly t — I must, however, hear, what he has to say,, if it is onlyior your, information. — I come, I come f
They have met 1 they have sought! — I tfem^ ble whilst I write — but no mifehief has ensued Captain brazen’s eagerness giving melvin's'ucl advantage over.him, that he foon difarmed him, _ gay& him h\s life and bade him mend it.. He is at generous .conqueror; but the rencounter wiii, X. fear, neither do him, nor me, nor my poor fhr there, credit— — would give millions it had never shappened!
Mrs.. mrlpmay is convinced, from melvin’s representation, that a man of honour could not dp ©therwife than he has done— — in public " company — nay, insulted for bis command; of " temper — he most chaslise ihe.presuming Spark ** in his own desence. He will', now be Secure "'from insolent atiacks.r — It is necessary to ki it “be understood a marii has eourage, as he is Then,., fand then only placed above the bnavings of "s
22‘8 COXHEATH :
** cowardice." — And thus did this good woman
'endeavour to reconcile me to an action I know
•...
her heart abhors; for I have heard her say, on fonner occasions, there was only a hair’s brcadth difbnfti'on between the duellist and the assasiin.
hlelvin would not stay dinner, left the asfair Should get air and reach my father’s knowledge", when he was not on the spot to give him due ini piessions of his conduct. He was, moreover,, anxious to.relieve ferdinand’s bosom from apprehensions for his safety;; therefore left us, mc'; * thought, abrubtly — at belt hastily.
Captain jamesbrazen wasfomewhat chagrined, when he found Melvin would construe his taunts into a challenge.
You shall not have it in your power," Sitid he, “to fet me down for a dealer in excuses" " I can conform to the necesiities, and " and observe the proprieties of certain Situations; will you, therefore, attend me. Sir, beyond the boundaries of our encampment, ** where we can meet without witnestes, and let *■* our dispute without interruption ?"
It would do no harm," Captain James Said, to have a friend with them, in case of " accidents."
"Very well, Sir," replied Melvin; ** if ** you have a friend you can wish to trouble oh such an occasion, be it soon your part: — I have mv feasbns for choosing to come alone." Melvin repaired immediately to the deftrned place, and waited so long for the Captain, that he began to conclude he had contrived to be put
under an arrest, ^ he was convinced he bad
wronged him; for, lo I he approached, but evi demly approached reluftaiitly.
The
A N' O V E L 219
The ground was measured .out, and the gentlemen (as .all gentlemen, it ieems, do, before they try to tut each other’s throats') Shook hands — filed osl' to the right and left — and put themselves into attitude.
Melvin preiendy perceived what a weak adversary he had to encounter with: he therefore Stood only on his defence,, to parry his injudicious thrusts; Which he mistaking for lack of courage, intending to make adefperate pusb, first lost his footing, then his sword, and found his life in tlsh hands of a man he had grossly provoked.
His features agonised; he even descended to ‘the meanefs of begging quarter, besore Melvirt tould tell him he had nothing to fear. — Anti now," said Melvin, restoring him his sword,
I presume we have no quarrel." *
Captain James Brazen, Scarcely knotv^ ing what he did, asked him ten thousand and ten thoufand pardons, — and each party went about Lis businefs.
I Will not trust myself'to reverse the pros ‘peft. He would have butchered poor Melvin, if it had been in his power. It was a meeting on unequal terms~a russian and a man of honour 1 — You see, my dear madam, I am as" tender of your Seeliilgs, as I would be of my own; and never crondude my letters in the midst of a distressful story! — Melvin is safe, and I am onde iiiore,
t ■ ■ -
■ Your lively friend,
Ella riverst
f.
A - •
0
■ /. V ■ ‘ L E T
23© C O X H E A T H :
L E T T E R XIV
: J
Tis not in mortals to command success,
But we’ll do more — we will, my dear, deserve It.
IX PRETTY sort of a businefs this duelling has turned out! Melvin no Sooner returned ta
I
Camp, than he was put under an arrest, and will be tried by a court-martial — Broke, I hope! He. will not make the worse country gentleman, for not being thought worthy to Serve his majesly. What a predicament the gentlemen of the army stand in I If they accept a challenge, they are Superseded; is ihty decline orc, they are disband., CD — What, then, is a Soldier, of all men living,, required to be the tame individual — Shall he, Srnittea on one cheek, in the meek and lowly Spirit of Christianity turn the other also? It is a contradiction in terms I — A Soldier must be tenacious of his honour, his dignity; he mu St feest and. Seel warmly, every unworthy stroke, whether of Satire, of ridicule, ^ of contempt, pf im suit; and if the conduct of a duellist can in any eharafter be defensible, ^ it is certainly in that of a. Soldier, who naturally desends himself,, he would his Country, with his Sword.
We intend to pay a charitable visst to the poor prisoner this afternoon. Scandal may, perhaps, be busy, and recollect how Alexander had his Koxana and his Statira. We are prepared for alt tixat; and wrapping ourselves up in our own integrity, Shall desy the utmost shasts of malice,, lic. Ac. Ac. I wish they may give him a disgust see a military llfej by the Severity,, the folly d
liheis
A N, O ' y E L
their railitary laws — and then will I Sing, O joyful!’
Slow this dear good woman interests herself ia our cause! — " she’ll affure me,. She dues not "■ know who they vvillarrelt next; but an injudicious friend is always the worst of enemies. " She will not interfere, but leave his own merit to settle the point to his entire Satisfaction." Wilson,, whose heart is made for friendship, ’ drew his face to a most immoderate length, ^ oni bearing Melvin was in custody. “Thank ** ven, he had quitted the military walk I — Mr, „ Rivers’ treatment had cured him of his enthu" siassh; and he Should rejoice to hear Melvisi;; was become as ■wife as himsels."
The gentle Lydia wept !• — Weeping is hef character.. Sits mighty well upon, her, — ".st was a bad world," She Said, " and the Camp, " She believed, the worst part of if. Could She bufc> " get her dear friends detached from it. She would never behold it more !" — Poor Lydia,! — Yoie know her turn of mind! — Bat stnce She is So ar live om shgsit occastons of Sorrow, > what deep wounds must not her Senstbility have Sustained in
V
the Situations She has been cast in I — Yet donst let me make you melancholy; for her Sorrows are all done away, and She is now a most enviable being...
I WILL finish my letter when I return froisa Gamp.
12.
A
Eight o’clock, P. M'.
Melvin is stilt in close custody; yet you arfes Well The evil may bs a light one, if rightly
considered
/
/

ebnficlered; but I am too interested a party to = confider it rightly; and therefore you must bear i with a recital of my discontents •
FINE Sellow, an amiable fellow, and master of nve and twenty thousand pounds to be held in' durance — reprimanded — threatened with a public trial!.
Well," say you, and what of all that? — ■ " They can but deprive him of the feather in his ** cap — his cockade — and how many pretty fellows" " there in the world without that badge of ".bravery ?"
"Now will I play the Touchstone with you S"‘ — Ail this is very true. — They cannot loosen the band of asseftion by which our hearts ate united; they cannot touch his sacred person; they cannot wound his honest fame. — ’tis not for cow ar di C e he will be brought before a tribunal, but fora too nice sense of honour.
Then, my dear madam, we will both of u3 be of good cheer; for know, your Ferdinand, as well as my Melvin, is also a prisoner.
Does your cheek turn pale? — Does your heart revolt at the idea? — What, tell me, is this Ferdinand more than Melvin, that he should escape the legal gripe? — They wiii be tried; they may be condemned; but we know the worst sentence that can be pasted upon them, viz. disqualifying them for being Soldiers; on ws .ich cirguaistance, I take it, neither your happiness or mine depends.
But what is ferdinand’s crime? — He is charge ed with abetting duelling; of absenting himself from his corps without leave; of being melvin’s friend, and the Son of poor Lieutenant Rivers. But criminal Soever as all this ma render him in the eye his judges, he V ili bea white character
io
; 'A ■ N P V EL. 233
in ydiir Cand my estimation, so long as we both
Shall live. _ •
; V 1 OWN., I was a little furprixed, on my arrival
at Camp, to find I had lost my bfoffer. — My brother in hold! imposliblc !"' — — I went to see him — there is a woman for you'! — even besore I visited poor Melvin. — He was not in Such good ." Spirits as I expected;; " I would write, and tenderly insorm you of his Situation. — He had enemies, malicious enemies; but he hoped the uprightness of his intentions would bear him " through, and that he Should once more be at ftberty: "'.. -- 'i'
Melvin has less softnessin his composition, So bears his reverse of Sortune like a man. " All " the regret he Seels, is for the loss of my Sweet " company but be will make himsels ample " amends; — for the moment of his enlargement,
"he will So beset Mr. Rivers for his consent, that " he will, let him marry, his daughter in order to " get rid of hrm.’^ l.poor Melvin S khat 'fairy dreams are his! — But they keep up his courage, and dislipate his uneasiness; and I cannot find ji, my heart to throw c^ld water hpoa. any hope he now entertains.
my father luokscvery: grave, but is profoundly tll.ent. ^^mr^; mil<imay watches his looks, and desysshe can therein read, that this is a much uglier busineis than I am aware of. Fear makes us See ■stouble and So 1 account for her alarms. I ' could, indeed, wish they were in the Same prisouj because, you know, friendly chat beguiles Sorrow, and passes time lightly off gut hands. - '. -
"wmat, my dear madarn^ Shall I now say tt you?, — You have here a faitstful State of the casei — I dm no diffemblen ^if I stad ahguifli in my bosom' ' would flow, like the inkfirom rny pen j. but i am Sitisfied, however rancorous their will,
thipir
234
their power is impotent; and that we Shall foaii lave our swains at large, and more in love with us than ever, for die tender eoncerii we took II their welfare :
ils which hope I conclude hiyfelfy e.
.
. ^ »
'V -
Ella. Rivers
*
. ■.. -,
•... ^,.. r J *
'■ -
T
« ■.. - vj ^
L E T TE R XV
>1..
They jest at Sears, whomever felt a woundt
:
T'
H E R E, Ella,. is quotation for yout quotations! — How you came by your callosity I cannot tell; but callous you are, and a mosl degenerate daughter of Mr. Rivers, who never wounds d 'the peace of any one, without wounding hi pvvn.
You profane the name of Love, by professing to feel it— — with all his merit, shas never touched your heart. There is a frolickfomenefs in your Style that is incompatible with friendship ^ for afriend in dissrefs, leaves the Sympathising bo tom to testify the truth of its. attachment.
Ferdinand in cussody, told me as a thing of ' course j — a .Damp occurrence I — and, what is
stranger
A N O V E L 235
stranger Still, I am expected to receive it as such f — Ferdinand condemned to die, I suppose J must argue down my tender anguish, and remember, that other young fellows have incurred a Similar sentence, who have been as dear to their mislresses, and in their estimation to the full as deserving as my swain; for so you can even now most wantonly call him.
Lydia weeps — her nature droops at Nature’'^ Sufferings. She is a woman; you are an Amazon; and I renounce you, — break hands with you for ever.
Tour Melvin too is a prisoner !• — Ella! — • Tour Melvin is a man of fortune, and the weight Will all fall on poor ferdinand’s head! — Your father foresees the storm! — Well may he then look grave I — But you have stabbed me to the heart, — and Sir Ferdinand will soon discover the strength of mind his child has hitherto preserved.
Was I on the spot; could I know every half hour how things went on; hear of his healsh; see a confirmation of it in his face; then would I fubferibe as gracefully to his destiny as you do; comfort myself with the assurance that they could not reach his life; and await the day his enlargement without murmuring.
But I am at many, many miles distance 5 must abide the Slow returns of the post; bear all the tortures of a too lively imagination in the intermediate time; and scarcely indulge ray joy at the good news you send, lest some unfavourable gloom Shoujd obfeure the fairest prospects.
This, this is the fritits of superabundant honour! — Well may they say, that virtue in excess becomes vice! — Was it not Sufficient for your father to advisc' us, without Separating us? — * v/hat indiscretions could, he charge us with? — •
I ^
236 C O : ?t II E A T H;
To love was our misfortune; and nothing but OUT miscondu6t could make it our fault. We did not once forget how necessary a father’s voice waste Sandtify our choice; we resolved to wait a happy turn in our affairs. — We muss have now been happy but for his cruel interference! Yet let me not be Severe. A noble mind may err; but the errors of a noble mind are respedtaole. — Heaven therefore soften the calamity! May the stroke fall light upon him! — and, oh! may he never look back, lest repentance, lest the bit te^'n^s of repentance, should be his portion!
; Wherever I come, whatever 1 read, the Camp is the universal topic, the universal obje^. Blit those who can delight in the idea, or enjoy the view of it, have no Ferdinand, like me, in „ cussody!
If you shave the leass spark of humanity yet remaining in your composition, write to me by every sugceeding poss, though it is only a repetition of what you have written before. 1 will Support myself as long as I can; but you Should remember 1 am no heroine in romance, therefore cannot be, expe6led to pafs sseeplels nights and anxious days with unimpaired health. Spare your self, then, the remorse of having Shortened the life of one that is moss truly
Your, c.
Caroline Fletcher.
»■ ’
%
LET
A N O V E U ^^7
» ..fc
9 A y ^ ^
r ' ■
LET TER XVI
Th L L A, my dear madam, intreats me to take up the pen, in order to assure you, that though our haughty chief Seems to fet his face against poor Ferdinand, he has not the power to hurt, him. ' '
An arress, a martial arress, however, harsh or alarming it may found in your, is a mere farce; a display of power without confequencev Our Chief, madam, may indulge his gloomy’ and aussere humour; — he has authority foto do. — He can make prisoners at will; but there his authority ends. Every individual muss be tried by ia Court-martial, and can have his femence only pro „ portioned to his crime : and if innocent, as my brother muss appear, his being brpught before the Court can be merely the prelude to his honourable discharge.
You know the timidity of my nature; you know my tender asseq: ion for Ferdinand; if, I can behold his present sstuation without distrefs,
I think you will not find it difficult to persuade yourself there is no cause whatever for terror or •apprehension.
Scarce a day pastes but some one falls under • the generalisfimo’s disstleafure. A turn of the head, a word misplaced, a foot too far advanced, or too far in the rear, are conssrued into dif refpedt, disobedience, or remissnefs of duty ■and as defpotifni looses its force by being too despotic, the frequency of these disgraces .and these
punishments
COXHEATH;
punishments render them a matter of laughter, of ridicule, of disregard: : it is hoped, that some one will have Spirit enctugh, before the breaking up of the campaign, to appeal to the Higher Powers, and expose the mock tyrant to the censure he merits.
Have I said fufhcient to answer the desired purpose— — will yet say more; — and affirm to you upon my honour, that was Wilson under the very predicament Ferdinand now Stands, I Should be peshedtly cornpofed, and wait his enlargement without pang.
That lam, nevertheless, happy Mr. Wilson has bid adieu to a military life, is most undeniable. His temper is open, generous, credulous, but impatient of ill usage. He cannot lick the foot that fpiirns him, any more than my dear father could before him; it is therefore pretty clear what chance he would have had, after years f liard service, for promotion.
Providence has thrown him into the era ployment and the Situation best suited to his taste and talents: he is the instrument of benevolence, in the hands of the belt of women. To point out a deserving object, is to give the highest Sa tisfaflion to Mrs. Mildmay; and to relieve Such objects' ' — highest gratification he can enjoy
Was you not, my dear madam, equally delighted and astonished at the Sudden turn in my affairs? — Could you have supposed that it was posfible in the nature of human events, to iist us. So instantaneousty, out of our poverty? for that stroke was to the full as great, as bringing us once ' more together. I wish you could see him! — The most gracious Signatures of humanity are traced out inliiis coumenance '; and as his heart hasine
ver
\
4 N O V E L 2^(1
- • 5*
yer been warped from its original bias, they only bear testimony to the feelings within, — He is a first ^rate favourite with Mrs, Mildmay! ** But " no wonder," you will perhaps say, when ‘f file is the author and source of all our feii" city !" —, But his behaviour to the poor lieute nant, and the consequential esteem the lieu ^nant entertains for him. Shows he is as gratefus for benefits received, as he can postibly be for those he is receiving; and that he is in no degree a time server, a courtier, or a hyppocrite.
Ella is the most extraordinary mixture of vivacity and Sentiment I ever met with! — I often envy her; for whatever superior reputationt mar poffel's for tenderness or attachment to my friends, arises from mistaking our character : self stealsin, and every second tear I Shed is on my own account. — Ella weeps only for them.; She loses the sense of her own concern, in her acute sensibility for their’s; and instead of being the helpless and the useless creature my Soft constitution makes, me, is collected, firm, and alive to every occasion of Soothing, of obviating the forrows.or oppressions' of thofe.she loves.
V ■
. She knows not that I do her this justice. — She bid me not tell you, that ferdinand’s Safety and your repose are the objects that engross her whole Soul. She plays with even the gravest, the most interesting subjects, for your amusement; and you place to the account of levity, what is, in fact, the most; exalted proof of friendship and asse^i on.
Mrs. Mildmay is much yours. — We drink your health twice every day, as a tribute of love and duty; talk over your accomplishments', whenever we have an opportunity; and astow^ no jhe to be Worthy, in comparison with your sweet Self.
■’wilson
i40
YAILS o N admires your miniature so much, that lie has given it to an eminent mafler tocopy on a larger shale; so that your portrait will soon grace our little paradise: : So beautiful is the dwelling we occupy, that you would accuse me of romance in the extreme, if I was to attempt to give you a
defcriptioh of it. *
Mrs. Mildmay has made Wilfoir master of a
low phaeton, and an animal of the. Roan breed to draw it, in which I take my morning s airing round the park; for when I go to Camp, 1 go with Mrs. Mildmay; and when once this cloud is brushed by us, 1 Shall pronounce us the happiest
of human beings.. :.
ferdinand’s spirits do not fail hint in the
least. Conscious of no blame, he has nothing to fear or blusti for; and the only accusation brought against him is, that he was Melvin s Second, though poor fellow! he did not so much as suspect his destgn of going out; and sought him on his disappearance, with the rnost friendly, dili “gence, to prevent, not to abet the .rencounter.
'Mr. Melvin declares, and I belieyeshim, that his own confinement would sit quito easy upoic him, if Ferdinand was but atliberty. However,, as it has been the general’s pleasure to make Ferdinand a prisoner on his account, he will not accept his enlargement on other terras than' clearing up that youth's conduct, and making him a efompenfation for the unjustifiable’violence that has been exercised towards him. He is a brave fellow, madam and will not falsify his word; So that whatever his fortune or connexions may do in his favour, Ferdinand will reap the advantage of, 4s if he aaually participated his claims to' const.
. ^ ■. '.., ’
- A ma
N O V E L 441
\yhat a world, what a bad' world it is, madam! where the poor must languish for juslice, whilst the rich are tolerated in injustice. — But I rest not my hopes on the fluduating humour,
or capricious condefcension of any man! -- --
Heaven will protect the innocent, and put the
guilty to consstsion; andin that confidence I
fubferibe myself
t
Your most affesfionate,
Lvdia Wilson.
at
• V
’1'
#
LETTER XVII
1 A M glad I have brought you down to the footstep of my throne to sue for pardon. — Lydia is not half iodr cum n anti al as me, in her relations,; — a great discovery That! — and you find, that you have mifeonstrued my gaiete du cauri aik no more .* you are not only pardoned your error in judgement, but received by owxgraciousjdf once more into favour. The strong should Support the weak, the humane Should pity, and the generous forgive : let oblivion, theresore, accomplish the work of reconciliation between us,
Melvin is a fine fellow! — A message was sent him this morning; that as the challenge was at vol. II L tended.
24z C O X H E A T H;
tended ■with no ill consequences to any party, it would be overlooked by the Higher Powers; but left indulgence to him might be cruelty to others, it Should be proclaimed that the next thing of the kind, which happened in the Camp, Should be. punished with the utmost Severity.
Melvin asked; " Where his friend was — —
■ his innocent, his injured friend r"
They replied, " still in custody."
"Then, laid he, you may return with my •" declaration, that I will remain where I am, until he is Sent to tell me he has received satisfaction for the wrong he has Sustained."
The mestenger stew back with the chles of ■ chief’s compliments, and " that it was not in " his power to oblige him; for that the young " man he called his friend, had other charges " lodged against him than merely Somenting " broils, and must be brought to trial."
- " Vehy well," Said Melvin, " we will come " up together, and hear what our enemies and " our judges have to {aj to us."
"But my Lord N— — — wrote to inquire into the cause of his confinement, and the Chief of all Chiefs had told him, his conduct Should " be excused; and therefore he was desired to " return peaceably to his marquee,"
"He wmuld not quit the spot he was on till Ferdinand led him forth," was the only answer they could obtain.
»
Thus, my dear madam, you perceive, when ^ power is stretched beyond its due tone, it loses its spring, and degenerates into downright abje^ nels of fpirlt.
Melvin has great and potent friends, that will not suffer him to be mal treated with impunity;
and the walls of Troy were osiers to the resolution

I
A N O V E L 245
he is master of; for twenty times ten years, (if such was the use of man) would be all incapable of Shaking it; So that in the Camp language, I can asture you, ah is well.
Besides, it is well known, that the present reign will Soon be interrupted by the arrival of our Monarch, who is a lover of clemency, of truth (when he can get at it), and will not take this matter on common report, but Sift it to the bottom, atd settle it in a princely manner.
h'lelvin has already drawn up a memorial of the whole transaction, wherein the malice and raeannefs of the attack on my father’s character, bis poverty, his family, is stated in such 'manly, such touching, suchsenstble terms, that the Sovereign will discover the hard usage Rivers has Sustained, uncomplainingly Sustained, during a long, long period, whilsthe was Shedding his blood in his Service.
This Melvin will get presented for the royal perusal, the hour of his arrival at Coxheath; and the great merit of his performance is, that it is concise, and at the Same time So intelligent, that every word will paint out to his majesty’s view whatever can be wished he should be made acquainted with.
This is, however, a secret between him and me; So that if Lydia had continued your darjing correspondent, you would have been uninformed of an article of the first importance to your peace.
Wilson (the honest, good-natured wilsoa) has been with my father, to inquire whether money, the key to all things, would not be usesul on this occasion; but he astures him, his boy Should not purchase his liberty, if he was master of millions, but abide the decision of a tribunal, an honourable tribunal, whosewill not only speak
L 2 j him
244 ^ G O X H E A T H :
him into his quondam Situation, but convert his disgrace into a triumph; and the poor Sellow went away visibly disappointed.
Yet, though he is tor stying to pecuniary remedies on every disease, no money has he beyond what will answer the conveniences of himself and family. — Tie has credit, however, witsi a certain lady, who would be happy to Seive Mr. Rivers ■ in the Second person, in order to lighten the burden of obligation nice minds incur, when their friends, to make themselves happy, make themselves serviceable to thole they love. — My fshher Said, " wilsen wanted nothing but a fortune to " be as great and as amiable as Mrs. Mddmay." Th at is, however, a point which cannot be brought to proof; and folie must pardon my Secret doubtings, though I think very tolerably of the young man’s goodness of heart.
My Clerical Admirer has received his difmisti on. — His visits, .madam., were So frequent,; after the rencounter you are acquainted with that he fajiiiy lived with us; and I suspediing him of foul play, asked my father’s leave to give him his audience de conge. — He was piqued; he muttered Somewhat and departed. - I felt myielf relieved by the incident, and am now both in appearance and reality only melvin’s, 1,
ft -4 ^ ^
Mrs. Mildmay visits the youths every morning. Hospitals, prilbns, have no terrors for her, if She can rejoice the minds of their inhabitants I ■ — She rallies Melvin on his want of gallantry to his mistrefs, and tells him, it is plain, from his voluntary captivity, that friendship is the most lively Sentiment in his bosom.
With Ferdinand She talks of you; prophesies the most Slattering things respe^ing you; and I Should not be surprised to hear, if She Scaited as
mediator
A ' N O V E L. 245 '
mediator and plenipotentiary between the families; the corner Stone ot their reconciliation being the intermarriage of their heir apparents. — Ferdinand will inherit all his lather’s virtues, madam,
(a goodly portion let me tell you!) as you your father’s treasures; therefore do not look with disdain upon the comparison.
I HAD thoughts of waiting upon the grim Sovereign of these martial domains, and, throwing myself at his feet, melt his hard nature into mercy, but 1 find it as a received proverb, " That' Shnt shall become flurnmery, and Sleel a whipped fyilabub,, when a tear of humanity bedims his eye, ora Sigh
of benevolence agitates his heart." -- -- You may
imagine I profited by the hint, anstdeft him undisturbed by my presence.
It was hoped Coxheath would have been the ■ first spot of royal visitation— — alas! it will be the last; which is, indeed, the ground of the brazen’s profumption. — His lordship,, you will find on the ecclaircistement, is the grand hinge on ' which my brother’s persecution turns; and that it is in his person he is seeking to wound us all : but you, as well as L are too good a Christian not to defy the devil and all his works, workmen and worshippers — in which catalogue his Lordship and his lordship’s train are infallibly included.
My service to Sir Ferdinand, and tell him, that my highest ambition in this world, is, to receive an invitation from him to pafs a few weeks ■ of the recess in Somersetshire! No pilgrim ever ’ made a voyage to Mecca with more heartfelt devotion than I should perform that journey 1 — I am not one of the offending parties; I am nothing but a hartnlels female, and his most obliged hurnble Servant. — See that you do my bidding.with a good
L 3 grace,.
246 G o n HEATH;
grace, and obtain me a gracious answer, as you value the esteem, the approbation, the affedi
nate attachment of your
/
Ella Rivers.
'V', ', • -
XVIII
OPORTINGLY as you concluded your last epistle, it has produced a most happy efsect! My Sather — the contrast, as your pen has been pleased to delineate him, of Sir John Flower dale — was touched by your remembrance of him.
"No, Heaven forbid," Said he, " I Should ** confeund the innocent with the guilty, admitting both Sather and Son were guilty of the Sin " of ingratitude in its highest turpitude! Tell " her, therefore, > I Shall be delighted to See her.
— — How are they all ?" Said he, aster Some little pause. — What an amiable family I once ** believed them to be! — A little romantic the " father and mother, indeed! for they disobliged ** their friends, to marry and become beggars.~‘ — " But I loved your mother well enough to have gone the Same lengths to have obtained hef, and lb never Saw that article of their conduct in
"the
A N O V E L 247
the likeness of a fault, until they Slew in my face,, spurned at my long continued friendship, and renounced me and mine with a menacing
air. -- -- don’t you remember how he looked,
when i called aster him, tame fool as I was!
"when he tore the children away f rom us?
"My dear Sir," faidi, " if I had only the " courage to tell you his motives, instead of condemning, you would love and honour hirn !’’
"how’s that?” said he; "tow’s that " 1, vour.child, was the only only one to blame on that occasion !’’.
"Pro vi^me that,, prove that .to me, and you ** shall find me as forward to rectify my mistake,.
** as I was to coifimit it -- -- let’s hear how and.
“about it."
1 Blushed, l foppofe, Ella; looked now in his face, then on the ground; it was so awkward to proclaim my regard for a young fellow, besides the uncertainty of the reception my confession ■ meet with. However, necessity at length made me valiant. I opened rny whole soul to him; not forgetting a little of your father’s address to me at parting.
He was moved I -- -- -- -- Very well, ’’ Said he,.
"very well, indeed! The young fellow might • " be liked without.dishonour to the fairest she' — ■ " But — you shall know my farther mind .on the " subject in a few days."
I DURST not push the matter,, though the suspense he left me in was a cruel one. — He indeed,, to convince me he was not angry with me, made me a present of the enclosed .note, kissed me, and told me " I had been a good girl! — a noble girl I, " — and he was satisfied."
No W if you say. one word about the enclosed little loan (for you shall pay, me, again, take no
L ^ tice.
248
tice, at Some future period) I will never forgive you. Let Mrs. Mildmay have the credit of it, but employ it so as to promote the convenience of those we love.
Your Melvin Shall hencesorth be my Melvin, for his Steady asfedtion to the deserving Ferdinand; nor do I recuire a Stronger testimony of hisfine taste, understanding, or principles, than his friendship for that young Sellow. — goodness (o eroodnes?, Ella, is a natural attraction.
How impatiently shall I wait the expiration of the few days my fa’iher mentioned I — " And in a " few days, ” Said he, " you shall know my far there mind on the Subject!" - — He has certainly Some Secret correspondent which insorms him of all that pastes; and either from natural liberality, or the force of your brother and Mr. rivers’s merits, makes favourable reports.
You are good, beyond all example good, in this last letter; and 1 am consoled artd chevred, if not absolutely satisfied: : I hope Ferdinand will not think of making a second campaign. — Preposterous! -- - On what motives? — His King
knows not he has such'a Servant, and the Royal Delegates are not capable of discovering his perfections: or, if they could, would maliciousty trace them tofalfe causes; call his modesty, rnean nefs of spirit;; fortitude, boldness;; rtsg nation, insolcnce; and his honour, pride. It is only in the. Shade of lise his virtues can shine forth in their native lustre; unannoyed by the rough blightings of envy, untainted by the rude breath of calumny, and uninjured by the base rnisrcpre fentation of designing and wicked men, who Seek
to
'»
t
A N O V E L 249
to rise on the ruins of the worthy. — Write, write, on, my belt girl, and believe me to be,
t
yours, cc.
Fletcher,.,
-- rh — ......I,,
I
LETT.DR. XIX
}
AXE
H E postshasi by outdoor without calling I would not believe but there was a mistake in it; • and ringing my bell. Sent Some half dozen messengers
out to inquire what could occasson it. -- -^^
"There were no letters for me whatever." — ■ — Bid the postman come in, J musi fpaaktahini " .rayself."
"Friend, pray oblige me sofar as ter look over your parcels again! you must have rnis" placed it. I 'am confident my filends have -" written to me. Here is half a crown, for you?, trouble; and if you find me.one, 1 will give... ** you another."
"It was in vain,"'the poor fellow said, to.. lie; for he liad not one, if bis life,; dependecl upon ity with my dire<stion. But if I pleafeds^
** Since I was Sfi earnest, 1 might satisfy myself, ’* ^fpreadiitg.them alt out before me.
All my neighbours, Ella, .vrere made: happy ..., L 5 uij -
T
550
fny heart and only mine was wounded by disappointment;; Sent the Sellow away in something like dishumour, though lensible he was not to Vlafne; and when alone, wept most bitterly.
It cannot be out of tenderness you have omitted writing! — The worst news had only made me miserable; your silence diltradts me I — what can have befallen all my friends! — All, all in custody! — Alt dead or dying! — I am bewildered in conjesures, and give up the postibility of guesting with painful regret.
Nothing but some fatal chance can have incited you to neglect me! — Yet tell me I am deceived, and I will thank you for proving to me I am an idle, fearful girl; and first make bugbears, then terrify myself by them.
My father too remains wrapped up in reserves - — mult read my anxiety in ihy countenance; yet has the firmnes's (not to Say the unkind^ies's) to read it unmoved. Did his peace of mind depend upon my voice, oh how speedily should he enjoy it! — I mean, if it was posiible for us to change ebaradters : for you need not tell me (as the cale now stands,) it is my duty to be attentive to a fa * ther’s repose.
Why should you tempt the weak of heart } Many a damsel in my distrefss'ul Situation would long Since have broke through every restraint, and visited your Camp to inquire for him she loved. — Neither a regard for the world’sopinion, a father’s disshleafure, nay, what ought to be of the highest consequence to her, the good opinion of the man So dear to her, would have deterred her; but She would have flown on the wings of indiscretion and impatience, to get at the desired tidings.
I am.
ANO WE L. '251
ia’"m, ’tis true, incapable of every such desperate Step. — What may seem felf denial, I confider as necessity— — will be worthy of ferdinand’s attachment, whatever itcosts him; and She him the wife he mayexpedt, in the article of sharing his difficulties, by my resolution in my Single State.~and I know my conduct will have all its merit with him. — Wretch that I am, perhaps he is now no more I - — Perhapsr — But I forbear to draw a picture that would rend my Soul! — O Ella, Ella! can you Sorgive yourself for thus trifling with the sensibility of her who is most truly, Ac.
\
Your
C Fletcher.
s
r
\
- K
V
'/
\
L E T
\
C O X H E A T H :
► * * ' 1
LETTER XX
I LAMENT, my dear madam, as much as you
can do, that a letter did not reach you, agreeably, to your expedlation; and where to lay the blame, 1 know not. Mrs. mildmay’s people could have no temptation to suppress it; Lord brazen’s friends to intercept it. I wrote every incident, from the dispatching ray former epislle dowm to the hour of Sealing and Sending the last to the post : Some cross accident has intervened, and perhaps we mu it never hope to See it more.
My poor dear father has drooped ever Snce ferdinand’s confinement; but it is his altered countenance alone that Speaks his discontent. — O what a Sting is poverty to the noble mind! — Yet is there no extracting it; for he will not, posiibly he cannot, return Mrs. miidmay’s affe61; ion.
I T OLD you Lord Brazen was at the bottom of this business! — Read the enclosed, and then tell me, if there is such a cold-blooded villain in existence.
To Mrs. Mildmay.
"Madam, d.
F AME informs me, that rivers’s boy has ** got into hold for tattling too freely of his fnpe" riors; pf the number of which I have the ho nour to make one.
Now to prove to you that he has a gene"
"adversary to deal with, if you will put ife
in
\
A N O V E L s53
** in my power to Stand forth in his behalf, I am “ready. — You have the dispofal of your fortune, and a certain lady’s hand, entirely in " yourself; give me au' instance of your com" plailnce, your liberality, and you .Shall find ** me all you can wish.; a warm admirer of " yourftlf, and a warm advocate for the un thinking boy you esteem.
"As to my last letter, it was wrote in the height of my disappointment at being refused;; " therefore should be considered as a proof o" " love, in proportion as its contents may impeach my pojitenefs. — To be unguarded oa " Some occasions, is meritorious.
i _
less my Wit, the more my Love appears.
says the soft Sappho, who perfectly understood " the Jcienceoi the tender passion' '
"I do myself the honour of writing to the General, that I may make a point of obtaining Rivers the younger his liberty? I think I may flatter myself i Should not write in vain. — But your fair self must fet me the example " of mercy, of goodness, you would have me. ** pursue— — arc, then, in the stridtest fens'e of the word, the Arbitress of his fate;; " may command me, dispose me as you please— — shall impatiently expect your answer.
And am. Madam, Ac.
f *
Brazen.’*
■.^and so much for Lord brazen’s eloquence, his arts of perstiasiorr! — You would, I presume, like to read Mrs. mildmay’s answer. — sti bus then I i>b!ige you, - * -
,. ^ tyi T'Q
254-
To Lord Brazen.
4
St.
"My Lord,
"I HAVE received two of the most gallant *'* epistles from your Lordship, that, 1 musl conceive, were ever written.
"For the firsl, I return you my most hearty thanks; — It let me at once into your charaoter, and I. congratulated myself that my soul had refused acquaintance with you.
"For the second, I Shall only observe, that the heart that could accept a bribe to do a good-natured a0: ion, is not the heart for my money, - " The west indian must write in the mercantile Style; and your lordship will not be ' Shocked, because you are prepared for everything that is low bred from that quarter. Had ** you exerted any little interest you may posstfs " for virtue’s sake, your conduct would have " had all it’s merit with me : but, to attempt to " make a cat’s paw of the brother’s distress to " help you to the hand of the fister, is so poor, so paltry an action, that I hasten to take my " leave of you on paper, as i have already done " of all personal intercourse with you, for ever; and doubt not but Mr. Rivers and his fon will find more able support from their ov/n unsullied fame, than they could postibly do in the boasted friendship of Lord Brazen. I have the honour my Lord, to be an independent woman, and
"E. Mildmay."
And let Lord Brazen (she dear woman says) do his worst 1 — If Mr. Rivers would give her
A N O V 'E L 255
** leave, She would soon Show whose Interest was " most powerful 1 But she wishes him to owe no " obligations to anything but hisevvn merits and the merits of his son’s cause, who is a cruelly oppres" Sed andwrongfully imprisoned young fellow."
When the matter will be brought to a happy issue, 1 know not; but Melvin holds sasl his inte, grity, and demands a Court-martial for them both; when his Majesty," he Says, " must know all; and the greatest will be found the least; the mighty must be crest sallen."
Did my Sather but bear up better, I Should be Satisfied, and wait the event with Christian pad ence; but I can perceive it is the narrowness of his Sfortune, and the obscurity of his fame, that wounds him thus. He cannot augment the one he cannot announce the other; and Mrs. Mildmay is too tenderly connected with us, not the luspedled of partiality, when doing him barely justice.
Writing, once my delight, is now become a task. — I perform it, because it is demanded of me; — demanded by every tie of friendship and affection between us; — but I have lost all my fub jetts. — Our visiting parties are at an end; our so ciai circle is broke up; even the Camp incidents pafs unheeded by me, and rny whole thoughts are divided between, Melvin and Ferdinand, and my beloved father. Be assured, whatever disappointments in the letter you may experience, do not originate from me; for Swill send you a line by every post, ’till it is again in my power to Subscribe myself
Your happy,
as well as your affectionate,
ellariversv
256
LETTER XXL
^ ''
•. i
-1 tiat great events often originate from trivial incidents, is a trite, but my dear madam, a true observation; and you will find it verified in the person of your friend.
My father’s pensivenefs increased upon us until he confested himfels ill. — III indeed! for he was no longer able to go abroad, much less perform the duties of hisshrofeffion.
Mrs Mildmay retired'often to her closet — to weep, I was well informed by the redneis of tier eyes; though file had taken, I doubt not, e yery precaution to conceal that tesumony of her tenderness •
MESSENGER, arrived from the Camp! — Mr. Ri vers Vas much worse"
"my dear," said Mrs. Mildmay we will make him an instant visit."
'She was profoundly stlent during our Whole little journey, and I could perceive Some important matter Was revolving in her bosom— — arrived, and were conducted to the bed stde of the poor desponding Lieutenant.
He raised his head.
"Y o u R goodness, rhadam — "
"Alas, Sir!" said She; I am now come to " forfeit your esteem, your good opinion for" "; but Heaven can witness for rne the pu“ “of the friendship I bear you! — You must ** not interrupt mei — ■ — Had you been successl'iil inlife, sthe Secret I am now going to difdose
would
A N O V E L 257
\
** would have been buried in my breast, I Should " have seen your countenance lighted up with fniiles of gladness, and Should have rejoiced in ** your joy. But I behold you the prey of Silent " anguisli! You are dying. Sir, shesore my eyes, " a martyr to paternal affection, and unrewarded merit. — What avails the Sortune God has given " me, if I mult Survive the friend of ray heart? " — Oh pity the conflict I Sustain 1 reconcile me to myself, by Showing me you do not despise **; and at least entitle me to mix my tears " with those of your beloved children : — in a " word. Sir, condescend to be my husband."
"Ella, my dear," cried my father, am I " delirious? or is it Mrs. Mildmay that speak" " me thus ?"
I KNEELED down, and, taking his hand in mine, wept — but could not reply.
The same mestenger who informed us of my. father’s increased dlforder, had' born the intelligence to poor Wilson, and he followed us with all expedition to Camp.
My Father was about to speak— — did I behold wilson before with distatisfa£tion; but the moment was so critical, I could not forgive his interruption. — The interruption was, indeed, extraoidinary; for rushing in, Do I live to be hold you thus ?" cried he " rriy deliverer, my father! and shall your enemies triumph " over you? — Then it is time L should make ** my last request to you.
"Was it not your hand that raised me from the ground — that called back my fleeting spirit— — healed my wounds — that fed, that pro ** me, when wholly destitute of friends, of " money, of habitation? — Did I not receive all. " this, did I not enjoy it, without Sinking under
the
258
the weight of the obligation? — Mrs. Mildmay “knows 1 was proud of your goodness; yet have ** feared to ask one little favour of you. It has hung on my lips numberless times! — Your fon, might he not hope his father would share his *' good, as he had shared his ill fortune! — Your " Lydia, too, you have bellowed upon me! " T hen on my knees let me implore you to accept " this waistcoat," drawing it forth from his inside coat pocket, " the legacy of my old master! He gave it me to make me happy; but your acceptance of it can alone induce me to call it "valuable."
On rny honour, I thought his intcllestbs were impaired, and rose hastily to give him way. — An old satin waistcoat! — I looked first at that, then at him; and most Sincerely pitied him.
"My dear fellow," Said my Sather, what am I to understand from all this? — I know your noble mindedness, and thence alone hesitate " to comply with your request. — When you mentioned the waistcoat as your prize, I expe6ted to have heard it contained hidden treasure. " You forebore to hint at Such a thing; and for " your Sake I was Sorry to find mysels disappointed. But you now call my attention back : — 1 " began to suspe6t I was right in my conje6tures; ** and I must therefore know the value of the " gist, besore I take it even from a Son."
"Is this like Mr. Rivers? — I will, however, answer you truly, on one condition."
"Name it," Said my father.
** Th at you consent to let it be divided equally " amongst your children, aster reserving a father’s " portion to yoursels. If you deny my this, you " are not my Sather."
I HA got the waistcoat by this time in my hands, not knowing what I did.
<< r 4 XT
  259
** Can you, continued he, " refuse me a request, on which I solemnly declare my happi ** neis is dependent? — Nay, Sir, your morality ** must engage you to it; for I have bound myself, by a most sacred vow, never to touch a " farthing my old friend intended me, unless with the general participation of you and yours. " Hitherto I have most religiousty kept my word; " nor will I break it, though your present cir cumstances has wrung the secret of my wealtk " perhaps prematurely from me." /
"You deserve to be happy your own way; " Said my father; " I therefore yield the point, ** and the waistcoat is mine. — Ella, Mrs. Mildmay, are witnestes of the gift, and now tell me what I am master of."
"That is impostible, Sir," Skid Wilson" Every one of those buttons encloses a brilliant.
— The good old man apprised me'of his intention a moment or two before he carried it into execution, and pointed out to me the lot I Should take, together with the nature, though ** not the extent osits value; for he knew it not ** himself. It was for this reason he conjured me " to depart as Soon as he should expire."
What a finished deceiver," Said Mrs. Mildmay, have I taken into my Service! How " could you pafs yourself off Sora forlorn wretch, ** when you knew you was as rich as a Nabob! ** — I Shall never forgive you. — Does Lydia — This, my dear madam, is the first time the confession has escaped itiy lips; and though " I am the husband of a woman I most tenderly love, I never called myself completely " blested till now. — Now, Sir, you are indeed ** my Sather 1"
"Then
26o C O X H F. A T H :
"Then hear me," Said the Lieutenant," and, on your duty, oppose not my resolution. —
• " The number of buttons is Seven; three of -" which; h I insist upon your receiving from me,
■ " as my gift; the remaining four Shall be divided between Ferdinand and Ella."
"Ah Sir! and can you insist upon being the ‘ " alone unbenefited'perfon by the treasure I have So anxiously preserved for your Sake ?"
"You will forgive me," Said my father,
- when I tell you, I am already provided for; a brighter jewel than all you canboast, the good " providence of Heaven has this day bestowed upon me! — That lady. Sir, is mine! • — mine "by every tender, every affectionate tie! —
^ " My heart has been obedient to my head; but the war was hardly Sustained. — My honour " forbade, my admiration bade me pay my devoirs to her; but there was no Separating herfromher " fortune, ' and that Silenced me for ever on thesub jedt — .Will you, madam, will you let my Son. wilsonhave the honour of joining our hands ?" Wilson overturned a camp stool upon my toes, and threw an umbrella into my face, by his eagerness to perform the pleasing task; and as it is agreed a Special mestenger shall be dispatched to the Commons for a Special licence, it is prooable before this reaches you I shall have a mother, as well as a father.
Having Somewhat recovered ourselves, * went off with wilson in Mrs. mildmay’s coach,
Pro tell Ferdinand the " wonderful works of Providence,"
as my father called it; Lydia, you
mult understand, previousty alighting from her
phaeton, in pursuit of her runaway husband -
'*'* had perceived his mind uncommonly op,
,
y
  261
. X '
** prested, and could no longer contain herself— —
we left the fond pair to unfold the tale " of their and our fesicity to her, at their lei" Shire."
Ferdinand forgot'his own Situation, hirti'» self, me, in his joy; but, my dear madam, you was amply remembered. — He would write to Sir Ferdinand the instant he knew the value of will sbn’s present;; would no longer constrain himself from writing to you; — He would work miracles when, descending from his high flight, he recolledted the first necessary step was unlocking his prison doors, restoring his fame, Ac. Ac, before he could, with any degree of propriety, (through the medium of your sather’s consent,) lay his heart at your Sect.
Melvin was as boisterous in his transports as the Monster in the Tempest; and, generous fellow as he is, felt more, much more on mv father’s account than his own. — r" The poor lieu tenant would now so overlook his foes, and " their little souls would be so disshayed !’’ — However not a word of the diamonds is to be told abroad; and we are to seem to derive everything from Mrs. miidmay’s union, let the world say what it will.
When I returned to my sather’s tent, behold he was risen, Seated in his easy chair, and at breaksast; — Lydia pouring out the Tea, and now Sweetening the stop basin instead of the cups, and now burning her fingers with the teapot— — never was a happier breakfast (as Stern Says) Since the flood 1
Need I add aught to this epistle? — to its length,
its
/
252
its intelligence, or its — — I want a word, and f Shall only add, that
L am, cella
Rivers,
I
/
t
Note, I mean to write a Novel, and call it — * Tiie Waijlcoaf, according to the tasle of the times; and I think I may be bold to say, that if ever there was*merit in a title, there would be in this, though not So high sounding as some that have lately appeared in our prints.
^ ' Once more adieu!
V -. • - ■ -
Ella Rivers,
W
L E TA
N O V E LI s65
T •
a
LETTER XXII
«
Wh E N it was recolle; ed to be necessary so return to the Hall, that my father might have a little Sleep, wc took our leave, (all except Lydia, who would attend upon him for the day,) in very unuliial spirits; my father in a mosl agreeable manner telling Mrs. Mildmay, She musl be now fensible he was not above being obliged by the friend of his heart. — " You, and only you, " my dear madam, Shall be rivers’s benefactress."
We attacked Wilson in the warmest terras on the deception he had praqiised upon us, his wife, and all mankind.
“Pardon me there," Said he, " Sori was under the neceslity to let Davies into Some part " of my Secret. — A little button at the collar of " the waistcoat, which Mr. Rivers did not perceive wanting, was cut off by me in India, ** and depostted in his hands as a Security for " several sums of money he accomodated me " with and the expenses of my passage— — " truth is, he had So mucst generostty, as for a " long time to refuse accenting the pledge, and " was at last alone prevailed upon by my declaring I would be served on no other conditions. " — He has disposed of it stnce our arrival, and I am now master of a very decent sum of money for an humble and a private fellow, as the jewel bore a tolerable price."
"Better
254
Better and‘better !" said Mrs. Mildmay." — " So you find, Ella, we are every way
"abused ?"
"It will be in your power, rnadafn, ' to punish " him as he deserves, by proving a very mo" there indaw to his Lydia; — the only way to come at him, and make him' Smart effectually."
We now exprelted our astonlshment, that in the vicisiitudes of lise he had been exposed to, he could preserve his prize. — He answered, He " wore it continually, night as well as day, by " way of garment; that the meanness of its ap .pearance Secured it from all suspicion; and his " old friend valued himfels much .on the device " of covering the buttons with wrought leather, — at once a desence and a disguise for the bril" Hants they contained."
We next turned our thoughts to poor Ferdinand; and Mrs.' Mildmay, with ©ur concurrence, relblved To write to a Great Man, her particular friend, and enclole Lord brazen’s rw o epistles for his perusal; then Stating the particulars and origine ot the hard treatment rny brother had Sustained, ask his lordship (her friend I mean) if it did not clearly appear to result from, that quarter, and how She Should proceed ?- — The letter was accordingly dispatched So Soon as we reached Mildmay hall.
The evening brought a mestage from camp,, that my Sather was much better, but that Lydia would remain with him that one night; and they • hoped to See us early to breaktast the ensuing morning.
This was Sufficient; though, if we had not rallied wilson, he would have Set off to Support his cara fpofa in her filial watching. — We laughed
away
A N O V E L 265
away the hours till we had notice supper was on the table, and then sat down, and eat like so many farmers.
wilson’s heart was so open, that he drank bumper after bumper to ihe renewed health, and approaching felicity of his noble and beloved father, and confusion (Mrs. Mildraay laid reformation) to his enemies; and lo well satisfied were we with our subjeots, and with each other, that we did hot break up our little party till midnight. '
i AM more than ever impatient for the Royal Review, now that I Shall figure away in my mo ther’z coach and six, and be known all over the Heath, for the daughter of the rich west lndian, the amiable Mrs. Mildmay; and for such I hope to be presented to their Majesties, by a man of the first fashion, who is Mrs. mildmay’s most obedient humble servant; though not in a lover like way; for She lends him cash whenever ’ he stands in need of it, and, from approving his political principles, has etpoused his interest in many parts of the kingdom at the lasl Election; and it will be his ov/n fault, if stie for sakes him in that, ' or any other point, in future.
So soon as Mrs. Mildmay is converted into Mrs. Rivers, their nuptia'ls will be announced, — announced in terrorem throughout the Camp; — the poor Lieutenant will have his fuite of Servants, his horses, his carriages, to attend him; and thus postested of wealth, of Same, and friends, — Heaven and Earth! — what a blaming comet he will appear to his foes! I enjoy their gnashing of teeth, by anticipation; am listed out of raysels; and can barely recollect how much I ought to be Your, c' '
Rivers. ■
volil M L Ex
266
LETTER XXIII
Y OUR family and friends, my dearest Ella, are a chemical compound of all the worst vices of the worst part of their species, viz. distimnlation, hypocrisy, intrigue, deception cc. Ac.
My father Sent for me down about half an hour ago; and on my entering the parlour received me with, " Well, my good girl, we Shall now " see whether Ferdinand deserves you. — Have " you any letter from him ?"
1 REPLIED, " 1 bad not."
"Nay, for that matter," returned he, ." I believe I am fomevvhat too hasty in my cxpec" tations; for he can by this time scarcely know his change of fortune."
It waslucky I had not read your joyful tidings, for your diamonds had ail been innocently Spread out by me to my father’s view.
"May I ask, Sir," said 1, with an agitation I could not conceal, " what it is you mean ?"
A BOY of six weeks old, the only bar to the " lieutenant’s inheritance of a fine estate, died “last night of the Smallpox. They were So " wise as not to inoculate the babe, and So have " provided both for it and your friends. The Sa" there has been dead near three months, and was " sirlt cousin to Rivers the elder, though too " proud and too ill natured to take notice of him " after his marriage into a low family.”
- This, then, f.lla, this is the avenue your father alluded to! — How prudent it vvas of him to bring you up without the knowledge of what
might
  ^6^
might never have reached you! More young minds are undone by such false politics, than by any other error of education whatever. Hope only raised to be disappointed, is the height of imprudence and cruelty! — Tour father, my dear, afled like himself.
Now here will hewed with Mrs. Mildmay in the character of a poor man, when, lo! he is niasler of a very handsome, though, perhaps, not ecjual fortune with herfels! — And this you call honour, I suppose, and delicacy, and gene^ rosity, and all the fine names you can String together. ‘
My heart is relieved from all its cares, but for ferdinand’s liberty; for it is plain, he has only to make the overture, to obtain Sir ferdinand’s alliance. — Here is another Stroke of providential interference, that neither you or I could have presumed toexpedt, any more than we could have foreseen it! — May our general reunion be not far distant!
I AM sorry for Sir ferdinand’s credit, that it cannot be denied he knew of your family dependencies, from his first connexion with it; that his resentment began to abate from the exact period of the infant’s inoculation; and that his revived friendship takes its date from that infant’s death. — There is merit nevertheless, Ella, in the advance towards a reconciliation coming: from him, as he really was roughly dealt by at our separation, be the motives as laudable as they may.
If what I now tell you is intended to be kept a Secret by your Sather, I beg you will not be So officious as to betray It. You know he is a very Quixote in delicacy, and, if you oppose or defeat his Schemes, may jilt the Sweet widow at last; for there are male as well as female coquettes, my dear, in this good world.
m2 Yet
26s COXHEATH :
Yet if the liext news I receive from Gampis not your brother’s happy and honourable enlargement, I Shall droop in the midsl of all this good fortune,
'n t
Your wretched V
^ ' X ' '
~ t
C Fletcher.
^ V y.
;
4
I
A
AL. ' " ^ r
* “vr. ■ w
t.
V ‘
■>* ' J
*'• /

A N O V E L 269
L E T T E R XXIV
A'. •
\
V
A ou are a censorious, nay, a Scurrilous girl f ' Sather, madam. Scorns deception, and, if you was a man, would call you to Severe account for your unwarrantable attack on his character— —, that pass, however; for I have more important ^ iriatters on the tapis.
To breakfast, agreeable to the invitation mentioned in the concluston of my last letter, did we go to Lieutenant rivers’s marquee l r tbe lieu ^nant w^s up, and ready to receive us. ^ — He had sept the whole night thr(sugh. — d.ejedtion of beast, madam,, was his diseafe, and returning happiness, I trust, will be his cure.
Mrs. Mildmay blushed, ' when she entered.. My father led her to a seat. — She was quite at a shfs how to behave.
My kind and good friend," Said my father, politely taking her hand, is it poitible you Should ** repent the honour you have done me? And if *•* you do not repent, what is become of the Tr graceful and engaging familiarity with which ** you were wont to treat me? I have told you all my weakness; how painfully I constrained " myself, to preserve what I believed to be the" " of an honest man : your condefcen ‘‘ Sion has melted down all my resolves, and I " prqfefs myself not only your most .devoted, but
m3 " your
270
"ycur moult affefsionate Rivers; profess that rny Sentiments of you for years have been iuch " as merit like yours mult infallibly inspire;; that henceforth I Shall live openly, as 1 have " long done Secretly, only for you."
"1 WILL tell you then," said Mrs. Mildmay, with all the becomirg modesty of her Sex, " on what terms we will meet."
My father vas attentive.
"W K will suppose. Sir, you have said 'everything that can be said upon the tender Subject ** allude to;,, and we will look forward, as per fens who perfectly undeisland each other, and " have agreed to have but one house and one in teresl; and with the friendship that does credit ** to our sensibility, and the good Sense that ought d to distinguish our time of lise, at a convenient " period obtain the sanfision of the laws of ouf ““S Country for Spending cur days together; ob tain it as an al of moral necessity, wdthout any of the parade or preparation, cither verbal " or otherwise, that is Suitable only to our Sons " and daughters.'’’
. Mv father bowed in acquiescence; and when the licence arrives, they will be made man and wife. — thow Sweetly did this Sweet woman cut the tliread of love and fost nonsenle, and teach both males and females to resstefit, to revere her conduct! — She could not, yc>u know, live unmarried under the same roof with a man, though with the purity of an angel, uncensured, and to have married less difcreetlv in the face of her Sons ano Daughters, as she kindly called us, would not have proved her uniformly Mrs. Mildmay— — I am mistaken, if she does not find an adoring Twain in the person of her husband to the end of her existence, and have the finest things said to
her
A NO VE L 271
her of any wise in the kingdom; for it is my father’s forte to be complaisant without flattery, as sidiious without bustle, and tender without folly.
- — And So much for Mr. and Mrs. Rivers. -- -- -- -- We
brought our provision with us, and so dined en Camp.
In the afternoon, and not till the afternoon, came the special mestenger with a letter to inform my father of the poor child’s death. He read it with a steady countenance; then presenting it to Mrs. Mildmay in the most agreeable manner, ** Be pleased, madam," Said he, " to See what has befallen us! This is my first notice of the ** incident, for rny little eoulln died only the night besore last." '
She returned it with a Smile, and a significant • of her head. — " I rejoice. Sir," laid she.. " ever shall rejoice in every addition to your happiness, though 1 must think whad Sufficient Sortune besore."
• I BEG you will learn how to behave yourself^i, when advancing Somewards towards Sorty, — Yotl' may be inclined to take a second husband; more particularly, madam, as my brother will have the honour of being your first; and at least Secure his memory from insult, though you Should conceive it unnecessary to persevere in your widowhood beyond a decent period — a period of nint years, as is the cafe with Mrs. Mildmay.
Wilson did not come over till the evening, anci presently whispcred Somewhat to my father.
** Very well," replied he; and I thought no more of it; but it Seems the licence was arriveci.
"I cannot wait on you in the morning, madam," laid my father at parting; I therefore flaiier myself, as rny Situation is so criti
M 4 " cast
(
272 ^
"cal, you will favour me with your company at Camp."
"With pleasure Sir I No convenience to ** yourself or family Shall be impeded by idle " pundtilio. — I will attend you."
Should you take this fora matrinionial assignation?? — " Should not." — And why so, after what you have read on the Subject?? .my part, I look upon it there were sufficient words to the bargain. — Wilson is to have the feli city of giving her away.
But I Shall not crowd my Mrs. mildmay’s wedding into the fag end of a letter; therefore
send this away with only telling you that
»
I am, c
\
\
Kivers,
. ✓'
L E TA
NOVEL. 273
\
LETTER XXV
Fast Decency, celeftlal Maid!
Descend from Heaven to beauty’s aid!
Though Beauty may beget desire,
’tis thou must fan the lover’s Sire :
For Beauty, like Supreme dominion,
Is best Supported by opinion.
IS Decency brings no Supplies,
Opinion falls, and beauty dies.
Te
HERE is a mirror at which you may fet your cap becomingly, if you are wise! and for your sake alone did I take the trouble of quoting it. Fair Decency, madam, wanted no invoking here; but in propria persona attended, as my sifler bride maid. — Never did Mrs. Mildmay look so lovely 1 And when the priesl departed. She prested my hand — " Now, Ella, I am authorised to Show " my tenderness for Mr. Rivers’ children; and they Shall find me all the mother !"
My father ordered breakfast.
Lydia looked round for her good man, as who should say, " We are not a complete set without him but he was fled, to inform the poor prisoners, it is imagined, of the important business he has been tranfadfing.
"We will not wait for him, I can affure you, ’* Said my father.
"By no means," said Mrs. — my mother I ■would say J " it would be very unreasonable,
"indeed.
274
"indeed, to punish us for his tranfgreslions! He " is now, my good Sir, playing the busy body " at your and my expense."
His heart jvill overflow at his lips," replied the Lieutenant, " on some occasions : and, for my part, I can most readily excui'e hirn on " this, for the Sake of the temptation."
Need 1 report their joy! — I Shall call to receive their compliments tomorrow.
And now comes the most interesting part of my relation. — Mr. and Mrs. Rivers, we their children dutifully assisting at the consultation, have determined to write to Sir Ferdinand immediately, to acquaint him at once with the young man’s imprisonment, change of fortune, and non misdemeanour; and ask permistion for him, at the conclusion of this his first and last campaign, to visit Somerfetstiire, with hopes of obtaining your fair hand' — The King is daily expe6ted, mv dear; — and it is indeed become absolutely northeast cessary for the poor troops to go into winter quarters : for, notwithstanding the finenenefs of the season, there are abundance of lick in the hospitals— — I forbear to touch So discordant a key, when love and matrimony is my theme.
'My father is of opinion, that when once k comes to be known he is married to a woman of such consequence as Mrs. Mildmay, his fon will be restored to him of course;; we have other strings to our bova Great Man, as I have already told you, is applied to; and we Shall expe(sl: t(' hear of Some great operation in less than eight and forty hours : I will therefore leave this letter open till I can add, what will be So highly acceptable a piece of news with you, that your lover is at liberty.
Well
A N O V E L 275
Well may gold be called almighty, the key to favour, the source of fame, the — But I have not time to pursue this catalogue farther, for hastening to tell you that Melvin and melvin’s friend are both at large, and most obsequiousty yours. — The How and When were as follow :
The mestenger dispatched by my father’s family, to inform him he was no longer the poor Lieutenant, happened to have a relation in Camp, to whom he very naturally communicated the purport, of his embasty; who as naturally imparted it to his acquaintances; until, in the due course of circulation, it reached the ears, of the Subalterns, the Commanders of corps, the General oshcers, cc.
Captain James Brazen was the first to feel tenderly\or xks,. He waited on the Chief of; all Chiefs and acknowledged he had been in an error; that the young gentleman’s conduct had been basely misrepresented; and that he wished much to prove his ingenuoujnefs, by making an early and proper apology for what had past : in a word, he entreated that he himself might restore him to his ather.
Gracious and condescendlnsr Chief! — He complied with Captain James brazen’s request. — Ferdinand was at the door of the marquee before ten in the morning; and as melvin’s sullen fit was nov over, he flew to embrace, to congratulate us, to participate our felicity O my dear madam! it was^a truly joyful morning!
But maik me! — As 1 am not afraid of losing Melvin by a little delay, be asturedyour wedding day shall be mine; and So I conclude upon this subject for ever
The
276 COXHEATH
The Great Man’ sletter has been received, and. the little Man has ossered Mr. Rivers a Company : but, however Singular it may be for a Lieutenant, after being in five engagements, aiid to thirds of his life in his majesty’s service, to ride a jdieute tenant in his own coach and six. So it is, and So it will be on the dav of days now at hand.
■. Melvin and I have invitations to the places where the people of sashion will be to be met with, and we mean to accept them all, for manifold, strong, and striking reasons; nor will Mrs. Rivers, I hope, disdain being of our party.
I WISH you could prevail on Sir Ferdinand to make an excursion with you, his beloved daugh* ter, to Camp! You can come to us, but we cannot come to you for the present, any more than if we were cast on the plains of Jehofaphat, " from whose bourn no traveller returns!" — These moral memento’s Should always be thrown in., madam, especially under our elevated circura istances; in like manner as King Somebody (fori have not leisure to recollect his name) had his daily monitor to attend him with the admonition of his being human : " Remember thou art a
man !’’ Said he. remember thou art mortal,
Sav I; and that however flattering the pros pe£t, or heartfelt the delight you may taste on this or any future occasion, the Kingdom of Saints is not of this world, or uninterrupted happiness.
y IT let who may think it right to dash their cup of Selicity with fears of tomorrow, I will not follow their example
Who. can hold a fire in his hand,
By dreaming of the freezing Caucasus??
wallow naked in december’s snow,
By bare remembrance of the stimmer’s heat?
Hence,
  277
Hence, as we cannot temper Sorrow by recolledted pleasure, I will not tinge delight by the, remotest ray of posiible calamity. AU that Heaven, I am persuaded, requires of us is, to bear our mingled lot with becoming Sortitude and becoming enjoyment; and to be neither too much exalted by good, or depressed by what we call ill Sortune. — I beg you will make yourself mistresh of this use full leston against our reunion;; if I have any Skill in divination, is not far dislant.
I am, my dear madam.
Your happy, thrice happy,
, Ella Rivers.
A.
- \ I
\
t
\
< j. ■■■;. ‘ \.
"Sv; ^ : .DEBT
- ' ■ - - »

27$ C O X H E A T Hi
LETTER XXVI
See, see the conquering Hero comes!
Sound the trumpet, beat the drums!
r
* 8 “
X H F whole country is turned topsyturvy { all be ribboned, and ladies all be habited, Stock around (for you must understand his maiesty is expected every moment) and we are now in our coach and'four — my Sather wished we would not have a Set of horses. — Melvin, wilson, Mrs. Mildmay, and myself, riding forward to meet the cavalcade. — The metropolis must certainly be a desert- -- -- come! they come!
and my pencil and paper are put with all expedition into my pocket. — I refer you to the public prints for the proceslion, in the manner following :
A sergeant, corporal, and twelve privates of the grenadier guards.
I W
Four
groonrs in liveries.
Four footmen in full liveries.
Two rid Ing equeries. "
An officer of the life guards.
The SOVEREIGN,
Mounted on a fine roan horse (richly ornamented with orange and blue ribbons) drested in his Royal regimentals. ^ On hb right, Lord amhersl as Com
isander in Chief of the forces. On his left, the Marquis of Lothian.
Tn

.Sn the rear, the Generals Keppel and Sloper, the Du kes of Grafton and devonsliire, General Carpenter, and Colonel St. John, with whom his Majesty frequently conversed.
Two horse grenadier guards.
Two grooms.
Two footmen.
A corporal and Six private grenadier guards.
The Marquis of Carmarthen in one of her majesty’s
post chaifes drawn bj four horses
/
ecu E E N,
In her chaise drawn by four horses (in vrhich was Lady Egremont) drested in her Royal regimentals.
A coach and six with her majesty’s attendants. Inferior attendants in another.
Footmen, grooms, ca
Sergeant, corporal and twelve men of the grenadier
guards.
Thirty thousand affectionate and hyal suhje^s.
Well, my dear madam, how do you find yourself after this glorious sight? Are their Majesties beloved or not by their Subjects?? there appear a spirit of bravery or dejedtion in the troops? Can you fear invaders — perish the thought! Britain Shall be herself again! — I could have wished the two eldest princes, indeeed, had been of the royal party, as they are now of an age for participating martial scenes; but it seems the court etiquette is, according to the good old primitive" times, to extend their period of infancy to the last postible moment: and the lad Isaac, vre read, went down, Ac. Ac. when theyou must observe, was at least thirty years old. — I congratulate the Court on the wisdom of their conduq:, though I confess its merit is above my coraprehension.
The
0o
The Review over, the officers were presented individually to their Sovereign, and had the honour to kifs his hand. — Mr. rivers’turn, at length arrived! — A company was given him on the spot, and knighthood offered him. the first he accepted,
but declined the last, saying it was his highest ambition to continue his majesty’s servant.
I OWN I was not without my secret murmur ings, that the other Camps Should have the precedence; but lam now convinced that though lajl, we were not lea ft in love; and am as loyal a lub je£l as any in his majesty’s dominions.
Maidstone, Mildmay hali, cc. were illuminated on the occasion, — and every heart was dilated. It was; a carnival, a jubilee, a festive Scene beyond what 1 have language to paint! — Nor did Some certain friends of yours make a mean : figure in the proceslion. — It was hinted to my fa sher, that a pair of colours were at ferdinand’s service;; he replied, his fon had only given him his attendance that one campaign, for Samily reasons, at the expiration of which he would resume the funstion which was his election, and for which he had been educated — the Church So that you See, madam, Mr. Rivers, in every fense of the word, is a man of honour.
But though Ferdinand will renounce a military life, Melvin is determined to persevere in it; as also Mr. Rivers. Should then (as it is expected) a new encampment take place next Spring, I Shall be equally (nay Superiorly) capable of Sending you all the particulars : for as the denouement will most certainly be my becoming the wife of a Soldier, I must follow his fortune, where ever it leads him ' even to the environs of the embattled field j and, instead of pasiing my time at mlldmay fiall, dwell in the midst of martial manoeuvres.
Should
AN O V E L 281
/ Should YOU more particularly wish to trace • tisrin imagination from Spot to spot, i would re'
'it to you to furnish voursdf with a very excellent PLAN of Coxheath Came, published in your Westminster Magazine for the month of august, when reading this additional description, which 1 nevertheless presume you, have already read, and is a most corredi one. — - — By the force of fancy, you may See all I have Seen; not Sorgetting to throw in the graceful appearance of Mr. rivers’and Mrs. rivers’young friends.
In this manner their Majesties pasted from the rigl't to the left of the line, in front, the ostkers fainting rs they pasted; the troops wtith presented arms; the banc; * f musick'playing martial tunes. palbng the left by the Royal Irish, his Majesty put on his hat (for hitherto he had been uncovered, and the steer. repeatedly paying her compliments from the chaiie window.) d. run. The whole went to the left about, Their ma jesties pasted the rear of the liney came on the front by the ftrft battalion of Royal Scots, and paffesd the grenadier arui light infantry companies, who had formed a separate line, (with which their Majesties' feerned much pleased) and came to the centre of the line, between the Suffolk aiid cheskire. Here her Majesty went with her fuite to the Royal marquee, which was prepared for their receptison. A gun. To ac^^aaint the army the Sovereign was in the centre. A gun. The whole army wheeled to the right by grand divisions, and pasted the Sovereign m qtiick morion, and wheek ing to the left formed again in battalions. Here the. artillery took their stations. Lhree Guns The mannal excercife was performed. The firings commenced hy platoons, fab and grand divistons. A gun. The whole .army fonnied in three columns, and marched in a very small compass of ground. A gun. The vi^hole army formed in battalions, and performed the quick firing, whkh lasted near twenty minutes, astisted by the ar
lillervji
N
282
tlllery, to the astonisliment of the Sovereign and the numerous spectators. The firings went on by regiments, and brigades. A gun. 1 he right wing fired; A gun [ The left wing fired Two guns. The whole line fired as one man; the line then formed the match f the flanking companies began to harrafs the line; detached parties were fent to disperfe them j the various attempts • were made, alternately repulsing each other. T he mode of securing the artillery and baggage on the inarch was well exhibited.
The line now dividing from the Suffolk and ches fliire, Several excellent mariceuvres were prafused prior to a general engagement. When the aflion bceanie general, it exhibited the greatest resemblance of a field fight the Sovereign had yet Seen.
In this aotion the grenadiers and light infantry coni pompanies, under the Duke of Grafton, Colonels Williamson and Gladwin, exhibited many grand ma nceuvres, and gave great Satisfaflion to the King.
’twas novi'‘ half past three o’clock, when .his Majesty Signified his intention of quitting the field; the whole formed again In one line, and fired the feu dt
Lyr
The review was happily attended with but one accident, that of a fi>efock bursting in the bands of a ' Soldier of the 59th, by which his face was desperate iv cut.
The corps of artillery was very much offended at not being introduced according to custom, before any other corps of the army the officers expressed their diffatissauion, and went away. Mr. Keppel sent after the Lieutenvnt Colonel,, and appologized in the king’is name.
I am, cella
Rivrrs.
N LET
A NOV E L
L E T TER XXVII
X IS very true, my dear madam, your last letter lies unanswered on my table; but could you have the conscience to expect: I Should attend to little domestic tales, when I had such fubje^ts as Reviews, Ac. at command? - ' ■
Ferdinand sets offto morrow to pay bis devoirs. — I beg you will be ready to receive him itti all your best asts and graces.
.. ' V. »
None but the brave deserve the fair!
And if standing fire at exercise, and bearing all the toils of a (holiday) Camp eonstitutes bravery, he is as brave a fellow as any in the kingdom : and take notice, it is the best you can Say of most of the Redcoats now in England.
Ferdinand has stiewn himself not a littfe headstrong in the article of his journey; for v/e Shall all be down with you in less than a month. But he would wait no months, not he. — He has Sir ferdinand^s licence in his pocket, and So flies •on the wings o Love tomorrow— — might have added Gratitude; for the Baronet has been a most unexampled friend to him.
The little month I mention will, I suppose, however, be sufficient time for you to Say all the soft things in, that is needful to say before matrimony. — T just give you this hint, 3f. it is whispered, shat on our joining you a double wedding will take place and furmlh fubjedt matter for our
public
XX XX .L.J LX X AJ. •
public prints. Then, also, will you see a pattern for all conjugal conduct in my dear amiable mother :
In every gesture, dignity and love!
nor will you wonder to hear my father pronounce stimfelf the happiest of men.
. Between ourselves, Lydia and her Lord and Master Seem a lesser order of beings, in every Tefpedl, when placed near this pair; though in a state of Separation, if I may So call it, they have their advantage over two thirds of the species.
. SHALL pafs througst_ London; therefore, if you have any commands en habilement, dirpatch them Speedily, that, they may b executed. —
■ When I am on the wing, nothing Shall retard my flight f hdw€v€f, lfpare'frys not. I Shall think it no trouble, provided your requests are well timed. So wishing you all imaginable felicity with your Swain — a felicity which none but minds like ours can taste — the sweet compound of friendship, of ' gratitude, of love — 1 leave you to add all re membrances yoii see fit from the circle at M'ildmay: hail; and. only ash you, till we meet, to believe me
Your most affectionate
\
Ella Rivers
FINIS.
%
U. nf Pa
