g RARE BOOK COLLECTION 
LIBRARY 
: 'i limiversityo/ 
L Pennsylvania 

\\ 
jetttvrcc * tnce jcu/p. 
itfiej 
'y - 
can Campbell 
RET 
MEMOIRS 
Of the late 
Mr. Duncan Campbell 
The Famous 
Deaf and Dumb Gentleman. 
WRITTEN 
By H imself, who ordered they Should be publifti’d after his Decease. 
To which is added, 
An APPENDIX, by Way of Vindication ofmr. Duncan Campbell, again!! that groundless Aspersion call upon him, That he hut pretended to he Deaf and Dumb. 
’the Lucky have whole Days, which fill they choose, Tb Unlucky have hut Hours, and those they lose. 
Dryden. 
LONDON: 
Printed For J. Mill an, at the Green Door, the Corner of Buckingbam court •, and J. Chricliley, at the London gazette, Gharing cirojs. m.dcc.xxxii. 

/ 
THE 
NAMES 
OF THE 
SUBSCRIBERS 
A 
HIS Grace the Duke of Argyle 
John Aiflabie, Efqy B 
Earl of Buchan Alexander Brodie, of Brodie, Lord Lion Sir William Billers John Banks, Efqy Thomas Beuois, ejqy George Beale, Efqy Countess Berkshire Mrs. Ursula Baker Mrs Bows C 
Sir James Campbell Bar. Sir Nath. Curzon, Bart. Sir Robert Salisbury Cotton, Bart. William Crow, Efqy Peter Carry, Efqy Daniel Campbell, Efqy 
Thomas Clark, Efqy William Conolly, Efqy 2 Books. 
John Campbell, Efqy Colonel Carpenter Dr. Campbell Lady Frances Clifton Lady Coningsby Mrs. M. Campbell Mrs. Cooper D 
Sir J. Dalrimple, Bart. Right Honourable George Doddington, Esq: Stephen D’aubus, Efqy 
-- -- Dumer, Efqy 
Mr. Dalzel Lady Dudley E 
Sir Richard Ellys, Bart. Rich. Edgcombe, Efqy Mr. Eadnell Mrs. Edwards 
F Flenry 
The Subscribers Names. 
F 
Henry Furness, Esq, Mrs. Folkingham G 
Earl of Gainsborough jlord Gower Sir Arch. Grant, Bart. •sir R. Grosvenor, Bart. Rob. Grosvenor, Esq Barn. Goldfworthy, Esq, General Gledhil Captain Gumeldon Mr. Gafhry H 
James Hall, Esq, Aaron Hill, Esq, 
John Hilton, Esq, William Harbert, ai Lady Jane Holt | Mrs. Hart 
L 
Sir Thomas Lowther Thomas Lunn, Esq M 
Earl of Marchmont Lord Vijcount mickle thwait 
Lord Mufkerry John Manby, Esq, 
Mr. Thomas Manlove Lady Doddington Montague 
Mrs. Sarah Mellis 
Mrs. Kath. Matthews N 
Earl Northampton Sir Michael Newton O 
Her Grace the Hut chess of Ormonde John Opie, Esq, 2 Books. P 
Herbert Perrot pack ington, Bart. 
Walter Plumer, Esq, John Peacock, Esq 
R 
John Raper, Esq, William Raper, Esq; 
S 
Earl of Stair Sir John Shaw, Bart. Colonel James Scot Ehe Rev. John Sandford Curate tf/'hornfey. Mrs. Frances Skelton Mrs. Scot 
T 
Earl <ythanet Jacob Trible, Esq 
V 
Gerard Vanneck, Esq Jolhua Vanneck, Esq', W 
Mrs. Webster Mrs. Ann Ward 
THE 

XHE r «’f 
SOUTHWEST ft iwh II JX.L 
% f^wa 
, n&wl 
■ ■ TP CM 
V «*• s?f.i 
vs,,, ia, J 
hstt 
'BE tymdubm w,., r,,, _ Chap, 't Of formne ieuing in General 5 Chap. II n my Enemiesu\.<\, 
Chap. III Some. cmtpwcing Proofs’ that rflmfa%r preferred, Interjfkiofwj^ Cmfultm to my Qwu 
■ 2° 
Chap. IV On Witchcraft ' f, V 37 
Chap. V Ontbemmys Dsceptms endemtmredfio he put on Me " r. ~ ' .ff. ' ’ • ' 47 
Chap. VI On Qmens; ffihicfy are to he fdepended on, ?i. ' ’ ’ ’ ' '60 
Chap, VII On Predflimtiw „ n. 77 
Chap. VIII '0» ig£ 'Sympathy ' f §4 .hap. IX On ihc Difference betwem Natural and joiaboticdi Magic ’ ~~ " ' ' 97 
Chap. X qnkj§pmitiontq,, .s 7r - ' ^ios Chap. ' ' 418 
Chap. XII on.the seconlrsjgbt 129 
Chap. XIII Q tbs!ffirtm.fftbs, Loaiflqn^. and jome other choice Curiosities in Nature 133 
Chap. XIV Containing some Examples of the Unreasonable Brings frequently required of ms 142 
Chap. XV A Remarkable Inflame of Ingratitude 
158 
she Friendly Demon i or, the Generous Apparition 
166 
Original 
CONTENTS. 
Original Letters sent to Mr. Campbil by his Confulters. 
Let. I. From a Per Jon under great Misfortunes 196 Let. II From a Gentleman in the Country 198 Let. III From a Lady, who, from the Depth of Misery, was suddenly raijed to Happiness 200 
Let.; IV [From an old Correspondent. 201 
Let. V From a Jew reft ding at Constantinople 204 Let. VI From a Lady of diflinflion 205 
Let. VII From the same 207 
Let. VIII From a young Lady very much in Love 
I 208 
Let. IX From a Politician 209 
Let. X From a young Nobleman 211 
Let. XI From a Gentleman 'to whom Mr. camp bel had lent the Book of his Life, and Spy on the Conjurer 212 
Let. XII From a new married Lady 213 
Let. XIII From an Adept 215 
Let. XIV From a young Gentleman at Camb dge 
P 17 
Let. X V From a Gentleman of the Sown 218 Let. XVI From, a Gentleman at Bombay 220 Let. XVII From an old Lady man'ied'to a young Man .221 
Let. XVIII From d Perfdn of polity " ' f 222 An Appendix, by ivay Of Vindication of Mr. Duncan Cam pbel, againji that groundless Afperfon. cast upon him, that he but pretended to be Deaf and Dumb, 227 
THE 
C i 1 
T H E 
INTRODUCTION. 
S no Perfori who has made any Noise in the World, either for good or bad Qualifications, can die without exciting a Curiosity in the Public to know something more after his Death, than could pofhbly be learned while he lived, I doubt not, but as soon as I shall ceafs to £<?, several Pens will be employed in relating what 1 have been; and therefore think it more proper to write my own Life (with which I am certainly best acquainted) than to leave it to the Mercy of some Hackney Scribbler or other, who, perhaps, is altogether ignorant of everything concerning me but my Name and Profeifion; yet will pretend to know more of me than ever God Almighty did. 
B 
To 
E 2, J 
T 6 comply with the Taste of the Times then, I shall leave something to Pofterit), though not to please the Rabble, nor the Learned, if ill natured: I only aim to gratify such after my Death, as were pleased with me when living perhaps the World will call ’em Fools, but every one knows what Answer those People de feirve who go with the Million : I shall only say, Had only the Illiterate been satisfied with my Pfe~ dihions, 1 should long since have fallen into the. Fate of common fortune tellers, made a Flash at sir ft like lighted Gunpowder, then lost all my Force in Smoke, and have been no more remembered; whereas for thirty eight Tears I have flood my Ground in Defiance of all my Adversaries, though / have had many and powerful ones Nor was it those of the fair Sex alone who gave Credit to my Art; the mofl Wise, Grave and Judicious of the other have thought it worthy their Regard : Some even of the Royal Cabinet have proved the Dumb Mav no Imposture, and after eonfulting me, would have pay’d me greater Adorations than became a Mortal to receive 
I know there is nothing more generally exploded by those who would be thought wise Men, than the whole Mystery of foretelling Events; but as I doubt not, but this little trea tife will fall into the Hands of Numbers who have profited by my Skill, I shall leave it to them to speak in its Vindication, and I appeal to all 
who, 
[ 3 1 
who, on my Subject, have consulted me, and not only to them, but to that superior Power, that Being of Beings, before whom we must all be judged, and to whom I shall answer, before ever this lees the Light, if I ever gave Advice to the Detriment of any Person, or did not, to the litmoft of my Power, endeavour to prevent the Mischiefs I foresaw would threaten them : But his enough for People of Bender Capacities to exclaim against what they cannot comprehend. Not that I say all are Weak who reject my Predictions •, no, I know many great, and truly wise Men in otherthings, who will not Buffer themselves to give Credit to anything I should say, merely because they would not seem to give into that Foible of being Superfluous; but I would fain ask thdfe Gentlemen, if, on ftrlct Examination of themselves, they have not feme darling Sailing of, perhaps, worfe confequence to indulge: There is no Perfection on this fide Heaven, and ■ I solemnly aver, that I never found greater Follies in the mbit stupid and ignorant of illy confaiters, than I have in feme of thdfe who were regarded by the World as Prodigies of Wit and Learning. But this is not my Business; all that I pretend to by this little Account of my felfis, to'prevent those I have a Value for from being imposed on by a spurious Relation, and to give fomfe Reasons in Defence of my Art after my Death, which would not so readily obtain Credit while I live: Tisa known Truth, that whatever Vices Youth, Inadvertency, Temptation, and 
B 2 the 
C 4 1 
the Custom of the Times may have led me into, I was never abandoned in my Principles, but had always a just Sense of Right and Wrong, accompanied with a Hope of future Happiness, and Terror for its Punishments; none therefore can be so Barbarous as to imagine I would wish to quit the World with a Fallacy, as I must do if I wrote anything here in Injury to Truth, because, though at this Time I am in a tolerable State of Health, whenever I shall be called hence, this is my last Will and Testament to the pub lick, and ought to be depended on as much as the last Words of a dying Man. 
M E 
MEMOIRS 
Of the late Famous 
Mr. Duncan Campbell. 
CHAP. I. 
Of Fortunetelling in General. 
H E Particulars of my Birth and Parentage, with my first Inspiration of feeing Things to come, having been sufficiently treated on, in a Book entitled,. The Life of Mr. Duncan Campbell, would be needless for me to repeat what is there so fully related. I shall therefore begin with my coming to London: And, I hope, none will accuse me of Profaneness, when I compare myself in this Point to Joseph, who, by a Dream, was conducted to Egypt, since it was the same God, who, by his ministering Angel, took the same Means to send me to this great City, where I have acquired both a Livelihood and Reputation, as B 3 much 
r 6 i 
much beyond my Hope or Expectation as his were. 
I very well know, that from my Birth I have had the constant Attendance of both a good and bad Angel : I am confident of it, and have such undeniable Proofs, that the Being of a Sun, Moon, or Stars is not more certain to me, nor do I ascribe anything extraordinary to myself in this: It is my Opinion, that great Numbers, of People, especially in the first Ages of the World, have been thus attended, and even in these latter Times, many are hindered only by their own Unbelief, from receiving Marks as evident and demonstrative as I have done of this peculiar Proof, how greatly we Mortals are the Care of Providence. If I understand the Story of Balaam and his Afs right, he was one of those I have been peaking of. History abounds with Examples of Men who have seen and conversed with these supernatural Intelligencies, and, I believe it no less true, that many of the Jews enjoy that Privilege to this Day. I have been honoured with the Acquaintance of feme of their Rabbles, and could not avoid feeling for them a secret Veneration, which not all my Detestation of the Enemies of Cbrijlianity could extinguish : Nay, I could not avoid, in Ipite of their present Unbelief, alluring myself, that some among them were highly favoured by Heaven. ’tis certain, I knew one who possessed Secrets which raised him to the utmost Pitch of Knowledge 
Huc 
7 1 
Humanity can arrive tq : He obliged me with one by which I have got Tome hundred Pounds, and which there are People would have made ‘tboujands of, and is, indeed, of an inestimable Value; this is the Art of making talij'mans. As the Planets have undoubtedly an influence.over all Things in this lower World, so they themselves are also governed by Numbers; and Numbers, if rightly understood, have a Power in them beyond \yhat Humanity is capable of conceiving. The true Use of them is certainly the Tree of Knowledge \ it is in them the whole Art of Magic consists, and by them a Mortal might not only be enabled to judge of all Things in Nature, but also of what is truly Good or truly Evil, and to excel in the most sublime and supernatural Acts of either, even to. the bringing Angels down to converse with him on Earth, or railing the Infernal Spirits to the Light of the Sun, Talismans, therefore, being entirely directed by Numbers and Proportion, nd made at a Time when the beneficent Planets have Influence, ought not to be condemned by Persons the most averse to Superstition;; It would be as stupid to deny their Force, as it would be to refuse the Sun the Honour of warming us, or the Moon her Influence over the Tides. Reason then teaches us to value so noble a Science, nor does Piety in the least oppose it. The ancient Patriarchs, who undoubtedly, did everything by Inspiration, were the first Inventors of them, and Moses afterwards wore a Tilifman, to B 4 which 
C 8 ] 
which, as to a second Cause under Heaven, we are to ascribe the Wonders he performed. Since him the most eminent in all Ages made Use of them, and the wise Men among the per fians and Chaldeans had them in the extremest Veneration •, and if it were put to the Testi' believe it might be proved, that some late great Generals and Statesmen undertook no important Affair without having a !Talijman about them. 
I t is but to few of my Confulters I have imparted this Secret, knowing it in the Power of my own Art, to answer (except some very extraordinary Accident intervened) the several Queries they demanded *, not but \ have now by me a good Number of those wonderful Parchments, and hope to make more, but I shall defer the general Use of them till after my Death, not doubting but they will be a Legacy of Value to my Family when I am gone, if I should, by long Sickness, or other Misfortunes, be deprived of leaving anything beside, God only knows the Time and Pains they cost me in making, and how many Hours 1 have borrowed from my Sleep to watch the happy Constellation, under which alone they can be rendered useful. The Knowledge, how excellent in numberless Cafes these Talismans are, affairs me I shall live many Ages hence in their mysterious Virtues, and that whoever wears them, will acknowledge Duncan Campbell no less Studious for the Good of the 
World 
[ 9 3 
World at his going out of it, than he always proved himself while he lived in it. 
Here I cannot omit reminding all such who depended on my Judgement, that there is nothing in what bears the Name of Palmiftry : 
I have had a thoufind fine Hands held out to me in my Time, with the most earned: Entreaty, that I would examine the Lines; and if I could have entertained the lease Thought of abusing those who put Confidence in me, I might easily have done it, by pretending to this Art but I should have been ashamed to have been guilty of such an Imposition, nor could I have answered it to my Conscience j and I am far prized to find so many, and some of them Men of Learning too, could have spent their Time fa ill, as to write such great Treatises of what has nothing of Reality in it: The Elands and Feet, though full of Lines, and so different, that, perhaps, there are not two in the World alike, and very few that have the least Resemblance of each other, have yet nothing in them prognosticating either Good or Evil. Phijiognomy, also, according to the common Rules fet down for it, is as delusive: Features are not the Marks of Fate; a Man may be full as Unfortunate with a high Forehead and finooth Brow, as he that has a very low one and full of Wrincles; nor is the Largeness of the Noftrijs, or Smaflnefs of the Ears, always an Argument of Wit and Ingenuity: Much, indeed, is to be gathered from the Face, and 
r to i 
Neck, and much more from the Air and Mein; but then there are no Directions to be given for the Attainment of this Knowledge, nor is it to be learned, but mud come by that Instinct, infpi ration, or Divination, vulgarly called Second Sight.. 
I know I fhalt be curs’d in my Grave by all the Calculators of Nativities, and Refolvers of Hororary Quedions, when I acquaint the World, that it cannot suffer a greater Imposition than what is made Use of by the Pretenders to this Science: I say the Pretenders, because I have the tit moll Edeem for those Gentlemen who are really Proficients in Astrology. Nothing is more certain, than that the Planets have an Influence not only on the Dispositions and Humours of the Persons born under them, but likewise over the Events that shall befall them; but if thole Persons who come to consult such as commonly make a Practice of this Art, would confider how vastly difficult it is to be attained, they would never imagine it could be comprehended by such illiterate Wretches; some of whom are scarcely acquainted with their Mother Tongue. I was never in a greater Pafiion in my Life, than when one Day a Lady came to me, and having; wrote her Business, added at the Bottom of the Paper, That I had calculated her Mothers Nativity. At fird I thought fly had midook me for some other, but on recollecting myself, perceived how fire had fallen into this Error. To 
oblige 
L II 3 
oblige several of my fair Confulters, I have frequently made up Paper in the Form of a Book, and alotting to each Leaf a Year, fet down those remarkable Events which come within the Compass of my Art to discover. On one perhaps there might be the Figure of a Coffins denoting the Death of same Friend or Relation; on another a Coronet, signifying Affairs with some of the Nobility; and various others hie rogliphicks, betokening the different Incidents in her Life: These the young Lady, doubtless, took either for Planets, or the Signs of the zo diack, and me for an Astrologer;; I soon undeceived her, and told her, My Talent lay another ivay, and that I never ypr&shjcd that Science, nor indeed had Jujficient under(landing in it to calculate a Nativity. I wish all who are applied to as such, and know as little, or probably less than I do of it, would deal with the same Ingenuity, and not deceive their Clients by a few hard Words picked out of the Almanac, and irregular Scratches with the Pen, which they pafs on the Credulous and Ignorant for the Twelve Houses, and Degrees of Constellation. As for the new fafhion’d Way of discovering future Events by Tea or Coffee grounds, I think it would be lost Time to make any Difertation *, they are Amusements which I have often laughed at myself, and to divert the Company have thrown a Cup in my Turn; but I would not judge so ill of the World, as to imagine anybody comes to consult these People with a serious 

[ II 3 
ous Inclination to believe a Word they lay. If there be any such, I pity them, bu, t look on them as Persons too far gone in Folly, for anything either I, or a wiser Man can argue to reclaim. 
CHAP. II 
On my E n e m i e s. 
ADI met with any Portion of that Candour and Sincertiy from my Confulters and Acquaintance as I always treated them with, I had not lived to the Age of Fifty, without being poffefted of some little Fortune «> comfort my Decline; and, whenever I shall be removed to a better World, where all Cares cease, to have left for my Family's Support. I was once in a fair Way of being a great Court Favourite, and would not have given a Shilling to any Man to have insured me a handsome Pension. Her late Majesty Queen Anne was no Stranger to my Scrawls, and testified the Satisfaction I had given her, in a moult beneficent Manner, by Mr. Geeky, her majefty’s Occulift at that Time. One Thing in particular that I wrote, Die put among her Rarities, and told the Ladle 
abou 
C 13 3 
about her, That it very well deserved that Place. But justin this Crisis, my ill Angel got the Better of my good One, and deprived me of any further Marks of Royal Favour : My Lady 
F -- -- -- — having taken a sudden Picque against 
me, represented me to her Majesty as a Man of ill Principles and dangerous: Her aftertion was 
afterwards backed by my Lady M -- -- -- -- --, who 
added, That Jhe had seen jeveral very ill looked. Men in my Hcufe; but I take God to be my Witness, her Ladyship never entered my Doors but twice, and that what fne alleged was sofar from the Truth, that not a living Soul, either of those Times, was under my Roof, but her Ladyship, my Wife, two Children, and a Servant Maid. These Ladies, only because I could not do what is beyond the Power of all Human Art, became my inveterate Enemies, and scrupled not to say all that the most witty Malice could invent against me; and so prevalent is Ill nature, in the greatest Part of the World, that I have known twenty or thirty beat out of their Reason by the Disappointment of one, and sometimes a pretended one too. Some who never saw my Face have been my greatest Afperfors, out of the most unaccountable Principle that can be imagined; it being jmpoftible I could disoblige, in any Respect, Persons whom I did not so much as know by Character : But I was once in such a Vogue, that not to have been with me, was to have been out of the Fashion;; it was then as strange a 
Thing 
[ i4 3 
Thing not to have consulted the Deaf and Dumb Conjurer, as it is now not to have seen the Beggars Opera half a dozen Times, or to admire Polly Peachum. The Mode will till prevail V and new Things, of what Kind soever, will please for a while. But I swerve from my Purpose: : i was Once so celebrated a Person, that those People, who wanted either Time or Money to consult me, were ashamed toown their Omitfion, and would be talking of me to convince their Acquaintance they were as much in thefafnionas themselves;; that I impure great Part of the ridiculous Stories raised on me, to be owing rather to Vanity than Malice; Bullies would lay, They had heat me Whores, That I had attempted their Virtue *, and Numbers to testify the great Opinion I had of their Sagacity and Wisdom, would wear, I talked to them, and made use of converfwg with my Pen, only in Juch Company as could not keep a Secret. ’tis certain,; that because I have sometimes discovered the Means of retrieving lost Goods; every Servant Maid that had missed a Silver Spoon, would come immediately to me for Directions where to find it, and if I refused to oblige her, go away spitting her Spite against me to as many as she met. But in such Things I share the Fate of the greatest of Men in the Kingdom : The trea fury of the Nation would be but a Mite to supply the Wants of all who are ready to become Petitioners; yet, tho’ they should receive Ninety nine out of the Hundred, they would exclaim 
I 15 3 
against the Avarice and Corruption of the Difpenforfc The Ingratitude of the World is such, that even between Friend and Friend, though the one Sacrifices three Parts of his Fortune to the other, yet shall he not be fitisfied, and on Denial of the Fourth, repay all former Obligations with Calumny and Detraction. How often this has been my Cafe, God and my poor Family knows; but I have learned to forgive, and hope the Injuries done to me and mine, will never rise against the Authors. I confess I have been too much a Libertine, and have thought Drinking, Fighting, running away with men’s; Wives and Daughters, gentlemen like Qualifications, but these Exploits were in my younger Years, and greatly owing to the Company I then kept. 
Of late, hard Study, and a constant Application to my Business, has brought Sits upon ine, which some barbarous Wretches have given out were counterfeited : I would fain know for what Reason I should counterfeit a Condition so truly deplorable? I flood not at the Corner of a Street to move Companion, and excite the Charity of thole that puffed; I was no Gainer, but a great Loser by this Misfortune: Few knew me without knowing I have been at more Expense than I was well able to sustain in Hope of Cure, and have frequently been obliged to turn away my belt Customers. When I have been, to all Appearance, in the bell Stare of Health that Ladies 
could 
L 16 ] 
could be wished, and have had thfee of four fine Ladies with me, a Flirt of a Fan has made me suddenly drop down in the moil terrible convul fions, and rendered me wholly incapable of afl fwering ally Questions that Day. Would any Man choose to distort his Face, and decay his Spirits with a forced Agony were he to lose nothing by it? But I am not only a Sufferer in my Constitution, by these cruel Enemies of Nature, but likewise in my Livelihood. As I have seldom any Warning of their coming upon me, it is the more frightful to myfelfj and everybody in the Room. At my Recovery, it adds to my Confusion to reflect how trifling a Thing has sometimes occaiioned my Disorder, such as a Nurse dancing an Infant too quick in her Arms, my own Children running hastily cross the Room, the Sight of a Mouse, or, as I said before, the Flirt of a Fan: I have made use of my utmost Efforts to overcome this Humour I cannot but look on it as a Womanish, or at bed, a pedan tick one, but all I can do has hitherto been ineffectual on the contrary, it increases on me, and everything that moves up and down with any swift Motion before my Eyes, throws me into the Condition I so much dread. I have had the Advice of the belt and mod learned Physicians, who all agree, That it proceeds front having so many Years accustomed myself to a Steadfaftnefs of Sights for the Sake of my con falters. 
T HOSE 
r tj : 
Those who know the Fatigue I undergo from the Moment I rise out of my Bed, till I go into it again, will own, that I have enough to diffract the strongest Head in the World: I am. not only obliged to tell all sorts of People their Names, Conditions, and future Events, but those of others whom they had any Business With. In spite of my Regard for the fair Sex, I muss do Juffide to Truth, and own, they were infinitely the moult troublesome i they muss be told, whether Maids, Wives, Widows, or crack’d pipkins, the Names of their Fathers, Mothers, Husbands, Lovers, or Keepers •, nay, I muss be positive to the very Days of first, second, sometimes third Marriages, and frequently the Name and Disposition of a Friend by the bye: If any one of these Articles are left unanswered, my con fulter grouls like a Cat over a Piece of Lights, lays, She has given her Money for nothing, and plagues my Wife with such a Heap of Noise and Nonsense, that Deafness is a Blessing to me Scarce has one of these left the House, but, probably, in comes a cook maid* says, Her fiver Spoon is not come home yet; that I help’d such a one, and such a one to their lost Goods, and that I life her very ill: Then enters two or three more, one has quarrelled with her Sweetheart last Night, and I muss find another for her *, a Second is jealous of her Husband, I muss tell her what Whore he keeps Company with, that she may go and tear her Eyes out * in short, I am obliged to bear C ten 
I i8 3 
ten thousand Family Quarrels on my Shoulders as if I were in the Fault of everything. Sometimes I have had thirteen or fourteen at a Time in my House, every one complaining of Haste, and preffmg to be first answered, ft is therefore more strange that I was able to satisfy any one of them, than that such a Multiplicity of different Affairs did not Very much confound me; yet if I have failed in a Letter of a Name, or a Day in the Month, all the rest was nothing. I have frequently been plagued with People, who, after being resolved all the Questions in the com pafs of my Art, were so Silly and Wicked as to expect to know Secrets, which the Divine Wisdom conceals from all Humane Penetration. Nay, some have desired I would have Recourse to Diabolical Arts, and force the Internals to declare, what absent Persons were doing. I remember a Woman that wanted to have her Lover fetched from Jamaica through the Air. If I attempted to dissuade them from any Thoughts of such Practises, by Arguments drawn from Religion, they upbraided me with Hypocrisy, and told me, 'They knew I dealt with the Devil, though I would not raise him for them * If I assured them, that such Things were not in the Power of a Mortal, they called me Impostor, said, I knew nothing of my Business, and they would go to those who had more Skill I leave it to the Judgement of any unprejudiced Reader, Jvhat a Flurry of Spirit this mu ft put me in, and whether all this is not enough to occasion 
the 
C 19 3 
the Disorder I complain of, and which my' Enemies so cruelly insinuate is but feigned. I shall hereafter give some Instances of the uf age I have met with on this Score, in the very Words I received it, not being ashamed to confess the Affronts given me, when with the same Impartiality and Truth, I also difco ver the Occasions of them. 
But to return: I believe no Man ever had more Enemies, nor did less to create them. I have little Defence but my own Innocence; hot but that I have Friends too, and among the noblest and most learned, but they think it Prudence to yield to Custom, and generally choose rather to hear me traduced, than suffer themselves to be ridiculed, for offering anything in my Vindication, by those would be Wits, who pretend to be above giving Credit to anything. Besides, it often happens that a Wife shall have experienced the Truth of my Predictions, yet dares not take my Part against her unbelieving Hufbandj lest he should take it ill she came to consult me. It is the same 
Cafe sometimes on the hufband’s Side, who, 
though he does nothing without my Advice, dreads the Censure of his talkative Spouse, and therefore permits her to sail against me uninterrupted : Peace must be preserved in Families, whatever becomes of the poor Conjurer : But it would be endless to recount the 
various Particulars by which my Reputation 
C 2. fuses, 
I 10 1 
fliffers, foi (hall only say, That while 1 live my chief Study must he Patience, having nothing to console me under so many unjufi Aspersions, but the Afurance, that when ever I dye, the Scandal thrown on me will die too, and my Memory obtain that which I despair of while in this Worlds a Public Veneration and Love; 
CHAP. III 
Some convincing Proofs that I always preferred the Inlerefl of my Consulters to my Own. 
| O T H I N G has brought the Art P of foretelling Events into more Contempt, than the exorbitant Desire '* Gain, that moll of the Professors of it testify. If they get but Money, they do not care how grossly soever they impose on those who rely on them; and a Person who sets up for a fortuneteller, has little more to do, than to dive into the Humour and Inclination of his Confulters, which, once known, Vis easy to flatter them with the Hope of Success in their Desires. It is in this I have chiefly distinguished myself from the common Herd. I could not see a Person, who asked my Advice, entering into any Affair, which would terminate 
in 
I II 1 
in his or her Undoing, without endeavouring to put a Stop to it; Things, in reality, the moult destructive, often wear the most pleasing Shape, and when I attempted to fet them in their true Colours, have generally gained nothing by it but ill-will; whereas, had I flattered the Wishes of my Consulter, I might have had my own Price; but I defy the whole World to charge me with a Deception of that Nature. When I foresaw Ills that were unavoidable by Precaution, I have, indeed, forbore to shock such per fons with theknowledge of them, remembering the old Proverb, that, Sufficient for the Day is the Evil thereof \ but when Warnings were likely to be of any Effect, I never failed to give them in the plainest Manner I was able. And here I must take Notice, that the Planets which, under God, have the Direction of Human Incidents, do not always render infallible the Mischief threatened by a malevolent Aipect. Timely. Care has sometimes given the Lye to the most terrible Portents, as in the Cafe of the Merchant, mentioned in the Book of my Life, who had determined to lay violent Hands on himself, yet, through the Grace of God, and my Persuasions, was preferred; various Instances of this kind are also related at full, in a Book entitled, The Spy on the Conjurer, which makes it needless to repeat them here. There are many living wit neflfes, and, I believe, will be when I am laid in the Earth, of my Tenderness, in revealing an inevitable Fate. I had several People ofdi c 3 function 
L zz. 1 
ftinction with me, when a Lady, whom I had never seen before, came to make Trial of my Art, she was beautiful as an Angel, not exceeding eighteen Years of Age, and to all Appearance, in a State of perfect Health and Vigour; 'she was about being married to a Gentleman who had courted her two Years, the Articles were drawn, and the wedding day fixed; her Questions were, If he would he a good Hujband, and how many Children she should have; I was very merry over a Bowl of Punch with my Friends, when this fair Lady arrived; but I had no sooner call my Eye on her, than I fell into Agonies which no Tongue can reveal, nor Heart conceive, but those, who, like me, are presented with such Objects, as the Gift of Second Sight affords, at the Presence of a per fon fated to a violent Death. She laid down her Guinea with her Questions, but I returned them both, and signed to my Wife to tell hers float I was not in a Condition of doing any bufi nefs that Day. She went away very much dissatisfied, but left me more so. When she was gone, I was asked by some of the Company, What had caused me to refuse so fair a lady’s Money, and were not a little merry on the oc cafion, till I told them, float if they had Jeert what I did, they would he all : In fine, I acquainted them for nothing., ' with what I would hot have revealed to her for more Guineas than sloe offered Shillings, which was, fhat she would not. live a Fortnight; that by some Accident Jhe 
would 
lifj 
would be thrown off a Horse, her Brains dajhed out and her beautiful Body mangled and disfigured : This Prediction made them all Ihudder with Horror, and put an End to our Mirth for that Day. About the Time I mentioned, the News papers gave an Account of the Accident in the Manner I had foretold, which increased the Regard of those who were Witnesses of my Behaviour in this Point, and convinced them, that I was an Enemy either to flattering or Blocking my Confulters, as well as to deceiving them. 
Another remarkable Instance of the same Kind happened on my being invited to a Marriage entertainment, where many of my good Friends being present, Mirth and the chearfu] Glass went round in great Abundance, till about Eight of the Clock at Night, two Gentlemen, who were invited Guests, but had been detained by some Affairs, came into the Room; one of them was middle-aged, but the other appeared not to. exceed Nineteen or Twenty *, I think my Eyes never beheld a more lovely Youth, nor one that had more the Air of a Man of Quality, as, indeed, he was, being the honourable Mr. Hamilton, Son of the Earl of Abercorne, of the Kingdom of Ireland; but scarce had I Time to contemplate his Beauties, when I saw him struggling amidst: the tempestuous Waves, which feexxfd to, toss him to and fro, and at last came entirely over him, and hid him from any farther View * While this terrible Object presented itielf before C 4 me[ 
[ 3 
me, the young Gentleman was making his Compliments to the Company *, i would have taken that Opportunity to have left the Room, but could not do it so timely but that I was seen? and prevented : My Disorder being taken notice of, everybody desired to know the Reason which I evaded by telling them on my Fingers, That I was taken ill, and would go into the Air, but if I found myself better, would return; tho’, I must confess, I was far from intending to perform my Promise, my Concern for the poor young Gentleman not differing me to do anything that Night but lament his ill Fate, The next Morning I was visited by Mrs. Hill, who was one of the Company I mention’d, and a Lady extremely witty and facetious, but of the moil inquisitive Disposition in the World; Ihe imagined I had left the Company because of some private Pique I might have to one of the. Gentlemen, and would not be brought from that Opinion till I told her the whole Truth; on which, lire went immediately to one who was intimate with Mr. Hamilton, and acquainted him with what I said. He came to me in a few Days, and begged I would write down my Prediction, which he would drew him, in order to make him change his Design of embarking with Lord Bellbaven, and offered me a very great Confederation for so doing; but I knowing the Doom irrevocable, and that if he thought to escape it by putting off his intended Voyage, yet it would fall on him by some other Means, would not 
be 
[ 1$ 1 
be persuaded either to write anything to him, or * see him : In a short Time after he embarked, and, with a great many other noble and brave Men, was sunk in the Abyss of Waters. 
I C o u L d give many more Proofs that I have refused Money, when by taking it I must be obliged to antedate Misfortunes, or deceive thole that were fated to suffer them, by vain Hopes; but these two are sufficient to attest the Truth of my Principle, and I shall now proceed to some few Narrations for the Teftification of the finj cere and disinterested Tenderness I had for all thole who applied to me in Distress. 
I was, one Day, accosted by two Gentlewomen, forfuch the most ordinary Eye might discover them to be, by their Air and Mien, tho’ very much out of Repair as to Habit j the younger of them seemed prelfed with a deep me lancholly, and laying down a Crown piece on the Table, wrote to me, That it was all jhe could Spare at that Time, but begged I would not be a Niggard of my Study for her, though I might think by the Meanness of her prej'ent, jhe was so of her Purse. I alfured her I would not, and letting the Money lie where it did, in a few Minutes wrote down the future Events which I saw would befall her : If I should repeat what they were, few of my Readers but would know the Lady by the Extremes of her Fortune, which, being improper, 1 shall only say, That see was, at that 
Time 
E 2 6 ] 
ffate, in the mofi abject Condition, and 1 promijed her a Furn of Fate so greats and so unexpected, that I perceived the Credit Jhe appeared to give to it, was rather Complaisance than Reality. As she was preparing to take Leave, I put the Crown into, her Hand, and spoke to my Wife on my Fingers, to bid her go Home and redeem the Word of God, which she had no sooner said, than the poor Gentlewoman looked on her Friend with the utmost Amazement j but as soon as she had recovered herself, ingenuofly confessed, That having nothing elfe wherewith to procure Money, Jhe had borrowed the Crown Jhe had given me, on her, Bible, and added, That Jhe would do as / defined and whenever the good Fortune I had foretold, Jhouli happen (which now Jhe did not in the leaf doubt, since I had the Power of discovering what she had intrufed no Mortal with) Jhe would make every Shilling I had so generoufy returned, five Guineas. But here I had an Instance of the Forgetfiilnefs and Ingratitude of the World; for in the Space of two Years afterwards, I saw this very Lady bowling in her Coach and Six by my Door every Day, but had never the Favour of a Visitor any Token of Remembrance from her. 
Would I have entered into Measures to beguile my Confulters, I have had frequent Opportunities by the Means of Mr. B -- -- -- -- -- d, a Man 
of a good Family, the more the Pity he should sofar degenerate, he pretends to great Learning, but that I am not a Judge of $ I know among 
C 2.7 1 
ignorant People he is listened to as an Oracle, but, in in Opinion, that is chiefly owing to his Pretenflons to Honour and good Nature, though never Man had less of either, in Reality; for he looks on all Mankind as his Property, deceives the Men for Interest, and abuses the Women for Diversion;; never knew him do a generous ■ Thing by the one Sex, nor give any of the other a good Word, excepting one, who by the most vile Actions has drawn on her the Contempt of everybody besides. He never was intimate anywhere, that he did. not make it his first Business to fet the Husband and Wife at Variance, and if ever his splenetic, I may say devilish, Humour can taste of Happiness, ’tis when he sees those most nearly ally’d, contriving each other’s destruction: : am no great Friend to Poetry, but I remember to have read somewhere, tho’ I can neither quote the Book nor Author, this Line : 
* He, devil like, the Woes of Men enjoys. 
But whoever wrote it, I am apt to fancy he was acquainted with Mr. B ■■ d, who never smiles but when he makes others weep. He essayed all his Arts to fet me against my Wife, and even while he was at Bed and Board with us, receiving all the Civilities we could treat him with, was still discontented, because he found it more difficult than ordinary to break that perfect Harmony between us: Failing in that, he insinuated himself into my son’s good Graces, 
and 
[ xs 1 
and made him guilty of a Behaviour towards me, which required my utmost Indulgence to forgive. Yet this Man, this Hypocrite, takes the Name of the Great God a thousand Times a Day in his Mouth •, to witness, That he would rather rake the Kennels, than ael against his conscience;; tells you, He might have keen employed ly the Minijlry, but would fiarve sooner than enter into any Measures contradictory to his Principles. I must, indeed, acknowledge him a Lover of juf tice, but ’tis in such a Way, as few would choose to exert themselves in, which is this: He frequently goes out late at Night, especially in rainy Weather, and calls a Coach, always choosing tyre most jaded Horses he can find, then is drove to the longest Fare, though he has no manner of Business, but to try if the Coachman will demand more than the Act of Parliament allows, that he may have an Opportunity of complaining to the Comm i (lionets : Nothing pleases him better than to see the poor Wives and Children f those Fellows come a begging to him to be moderate, and if they sell their Beds to pay their Forfeit, the more exquisite his Delight. If he catches a Chair in the pathway, he is sure to break the Glafies j or a Porter with a Burden, to throw him down, knowing neither dare resent it, because he has the Law on his Side; but this he calls Honour, and a strict Reverence to the Statutes, Heaven forgive the Cruelty of his Nature, but sure Earth cannot parallel it since the Days of Nero, but why fhouid I say Nero? 
he 
[ ip 3 
he burnt but one City, this Wretch would fet the whole World into a Flame, if he had the Power. Never was a greater Crocadlle, for with Humane Voice he drew the Ears of the Company, to listen to his Persuasions, which are never made but Vo undo. 
I have been so particular in his Character, to Show how ealy it would have been for me, if leagued with such a Man, to have made my own Fortune, and ruined Thousands. 
Among the many whom he would feign have tempted me to join with him in the Undoing, Were two Customhouse Officers, the Name of the one was R. Loggins, he was of a very advanced Age, and had enjoyed his Poll above thirty Years; the other, who was called J. Rotherham, was much younger, but had been a considerable Time in the Business. He found they had laved a little Money, and were of projecting difpofi tions, though of mean Capacities to manage any great Affair. He had told them, 'Twas easy for them to prove the King was wronged in his Revenue of the Cujloms, and fet them to Work to calculate what their Whimffes improved by his own might amount to, which, I think, they brought in upwards of 30, 000/. a Year : He made them believe they Should have ten thousand Pounds apiece for the Discovery, and would have prevailed on me to tell them, I forejawy by my Arty that they would have great Rewards. I did 
not 
[ 30 1 
nbt absolutely deny what he' desired, and bad him bring them to me, though not with any Delignto aid his Purpose, but to save - it were in my Power, the poor Fellows from Ruin when they came, I told them, I had but little Skill m Schemes of that Nature, but knew the World too well to promise then succej's *, tis like slopping the 'Tide at Gravesend with your Thumbs said I to Loggins j though, by the way, this was none of my own Wit, but a Comparison made on a certain Occasion, by a Peer in Parliament. Rotherham, blown up with the Hopes B -- -- d had 
given him, wrote with a pert Air, What do you think of me? I answered him, ’that he would starve in a Prijon, if he pursued his present design, •, the Persons he would be obliged to Accuse were too powerful for a thousand such Enemies as he, or his Friend. To this he replied with an Oath, That he would write to the King himself and presently took Paper, and began to do as he had sworn, in, as near as I can remember, thcie Words. 
C 31 3 
To the KING. 
SIR, 
JT/E have no Justice from your Ministry: : / * ' to peak to your Majesty myjelft that E may inform you, by Word of Mouth, what cheating Knaves you have got in your Customhouse. 
I am, 
Your majesty’s 
Subject and humble Servant, 
J. Rotherham 
T 6 this fine Epistle he added a Poftcript> where the King (hold direct to him; I forgot the Name of the Alley, but it was somewhere behind St. Paul's Church. To this extravagant Pitch had Mr. 5 — — d’s Insinuations wound up the Expectations of these unfortunate Men, and all I could do to warn them of their Folly, was to no more Purpose, than to throw Water against the Wind. I soon after heard the younger Hero was put into New prijon, somebody having sworn Treason against him; and poor log gins, after having spent all his own Money, and a hundred Pounds borrowed, I saw begging with his Grey Flairs at a Door, to my great Concern, on the Account of his Agenor 

r 3% i 
Nor was I less troubled at the Misfortunes to which Mr. Rogers, a Baker, was reduced by the Artifices of this general Deceiver, who sofar intoxicated him, by telling him, He was a Wit, and Should join with hin in writing a Weekly P'npery that he neglected his Business, fpeht all his Time nd Money among Printers, Publishers, and Paper Merchants, put his Wife into Bedlam, for having Prudence enough to dislike Mr. B— — the Measures he made him take, and was afterwards turned out of Doors by his Landlord, all his Goods seized on, and he glad to be a Journeyman, and a Slave for Life, who before lived in good Repute. From the Time he began to fink, Mr. B — d used him as the Devil does the Witch, never came near him, but made a Jell of his Calamities. I have many Witnesses of the Warnings I gave this Man, but to as little Purpose as those I bestowed on the Cujlom houje Officers: He comes sometimes to my Ploufe to this Day, and laments the little Regard he pay’d to my Advice, and curses B -- -- -- din the utmost Bitterness of his Souk 
Tis certain, that no Rank nor Degree, but was liable to be ensnared by him. Mr. Hughs, a non juring Clergyman, and exceeded by few, in good Sense and Learning, could not defend himself from giving into a Project hepropo fed to him j in which having spent all lie had, and reduced himself to great Miseries, in the End broke his Heart. 
I 
f 33 3 
I fear I have been already too tedious in those melancholy Accounts *, but I am oblig’d, in the Vindication of my Character, to relate them, that the Reader may be convinced, how little I regarded my rnterefb, when it depended on doing a Prejudice to those who consulted me, since by loothing any of those Persons I have named, and Numbers of others not mentioned, whom Mr. 
A -- -- -■ — d brought to me, I might have been 
one of the greatest Gainers by their Loss. 
But though I should publish these, and ten thousand more Instances of this Nature, so prejudiced are some People, that it would all pafs for nothing ^ and to the rest of my Accusations, I doubt not, (Mentation would be added j for which Reason, among others, I resolve to let no Person in the World peruse this Manuscript, till I am beyond the Reach of Envy or of Malice. I cannot, however, in Justice to those worthy Persons, who have not disdained appearing in Behalf of the Dumb Conjurer, omit making mention of some Instances that I had Friends as well as Enemies *, among the Number of them was my good Lady ajhfield, who was not only famous for her Beauty, Riches, and Honour, but had also all the rare Qualities that can be found in Woman. I foretold some extraordinary Events, to a lovely Daughter of hers, which happened exactly according to my Predictions, though nothing: at that Time feem’d more unlikely. 
D She 
C 34 1 
She used to lend frequently for me, and take me Abroad with her to all Places where she was free. Another Instance, that all Mankind were notfet against me, I met with at the Playhouse in Drury-lane, one Night, when that excellent Comedy, The Provoked Wife, was acting. My Wife would needs have me accompany her, as imagining, perhaps, that no body had so much Reason to be provoked as herself. About the Middle of the Third Act, three Sparks, whom I had seen at my Lady jjhfield’s, and who had rally’d her Ladyship, on the Confidence she put in me, came into the Pit, and immediately attacked both me and my Wife: I was very busy on my Finger difcourfe with Mr. Befion and Claudy Philips, two famous Hands on the Violin, and did not regard the Behaviour of these Fops, till one of them damning us all, and what we were about: I perceived Claudy made some Answer to him, on which another of them said, as I was afterwards informed, That if I did not go out of the House, he would have me kick’d out. By Heaven! replied Befion, You had better be quiet, lefi you meet with the same Fate, for he is not a Man who will bear an Insult if he knows of it. Claudy, at whose mother’s House I lodged, and loved me as his Life, made known to me, on his Fingers, all this Flero said, *, which I turned about, and finding the other two Sparks, his Companions, busy about my Wife : I had no longer Patience, but knock’d the first Beaux off his Seat i, they all three immediately drew, and so, 
indeed, 
C 33 
indeed, did half the Pit; Mr. Booth, who knew me very well, and saw the Danger I was in, tho’ he was in the Middle of his Part, leap’d off the Stage, and put his Arms about my Neck, and in that Posture, afilfted by some other of the Actors, carried me behind the Scenes, where, getting a Pen and Ink, I wrote a Challenge, having learned his Name, to him, who seemed the Chief of this Heroic Band. My Lord Hay Came in to me while I was writing, would needs be the Bearer of it himself, and protested he would be my Second *, doing me the Honour to lay, That Duncan Campbell was his Relation, and as good a gentle?nan as any there. I was carried that Night to St. Amanfs Coffeehouse, in St. Mar tins lane, where was a Club of Gentlemen of the Army : On their being informed of the Story, a Consultation was held, in what Manner to chastise the Spark, in Cafe he did not answer my Apointment; one was for having him Pojied in all public Places for a Coward; a Second, for having him well Baflinadoed \ but a Third, more moderate, said, That, as he was a Beaux, a Utile Switch to heat the Powder out of his Wig, would answer the End as well as knocking his Brains cut• While I was thus diverting myself with good Company and Arrack Punch, my Adversary was employ’d with Lawyers to indict me in the Crown Office, on the Statute against Gy plies, Fortunetellers, Witches, c— — -- which I had early 
Notice next Morning, by Mrs. Storys of nor folk street\ I, who knew nothing what the D 2 Crown 
3 6 3 
Crown office meant showed her a Paper I was resolved to stick up in all the Coffeehouses about Town, the Gentleman not having met me; but she begg’d 1 would defer it till Three o Clock, when she would bring the Lawyer to me, that it might be made up. I could not refuse a fair Lady; and Providence, who had preferred me in many Dangers, was here particularly careful of me; for my old Friend, Justice Botelaroi tveft minjier, came to dine with me that Day, and tarrying till the Lawyer came, heard him infill? ‘that I Should ajk Pardon, on my Knees, of the Gentleman : But he no sooner heard his Name, than he started up, and shaking his Cane, Go, tell the Rogue, said he, that he is my Nephew; that I saved him hut the other Day from Newgate, and if I ever hear he meddles with my Friend, Campbell, Pll j'end him thither. The Lawyer on this departed, and I had no farther Trouble about the Business. 
C H A p; 
C 37 3 
CHAP. IV 
On Witchcraft, 
O T HI N G is more surprising to me, than that Persons of Sense, especially a Religious one, should run on with that Vehemence, as some do, against all Accounts of Witchcraft: The Holy Scripture, both in the Old and New Testament, affords Variety of Texts to prove it; but lest they would not be thought to disbelieve any Tart of what is there contained, they have found out this Salvo; to wit, That there was such Things in Jewish Times, but they were all abolished. by the Sufferings of our Blessed Saviour : I know not what Reason they give for it, beftdes their own Imagination, for I never read that he has told us foi 
f there has been none who have practised Witchcraft of late Years, how highly, must those Judges be blamed, who have sentenced so many to the Stake, as were burned both in Scotland, and the North of England, in the Years 1627^ and 1629. Since then many have suffered for D 3 the 
C 38 3 
the same Crime, though not in such great Numbers; and that there still are Persons guilty of it, may be proved b y those unfortunate Creatures who feel the Effects of it, in a Manner, which no Distemper, to which Humane Nature is incident, can inflict on them *, though to have made a Contract with the Devil, and receive from him the Power of doing Hurt, is now looked on as such an old wife’s Tale, that if any Person is apprehended for it, a Justice of the Peace is afraid to signa Commitment, tho’ on the moll plain Proofs, for Fear of being laugh’d at by those, Wife in their own .Conceit, Gentlemen, who will have it no more than Imagination. 
But if there be no such Thing as Witchcraft, what is that terrible Condition to which many People have been, and are, reduced to? Why does it puzzle the Art of the whole College of physicians?? is it never in the Power of Physic to make a Cure, or even give the least Ease to the Persons afflicted? What is it gives that supernatural Strength to the unhappy Wretch, that, tho’ a Child of not above seven or eight Years of Age, a Dozen Men shall not be able to hold him? everybody knows that, in ordinary dif eafes, the sick Person becomes Weak: What conveys into the Stomach Pins, Needles, Bundles of Hair, Sticks, Straws, and other Things, which I have seen vomited up? What is it that makes them speak invoices not their own, and laik learnedly on Things they know nothing of? 
There 
C 39 3 
There is no accounting for it but by diabolical Practises, what, in old Times, bore the Name of Enchantment, and is now vulgarly called Witchcraft. I had a Man brought to me about twelve Years since, whose Plead was turned directly behind him, all his Limbs editor ted, and the faded: Spectacle to behold, that Imagination can possibly form *, he had ruined himself by following the Prescriptions of diverse Physicians before he came to me; but his Cafe will bed: be deferibed by his own Affidavit, made before the Lord Chief Judice Raymond, which I here incert for that Purpose. 
she Affidavit of Richard Coates? 
Vintner. 
Richard coates, late of Fen 
church street, Vintner, and Citizen of London, maketh Oath, That he, this Deponent, was for above four Tears, ajflidled with a violent diftem per, which was by most People judged to be the Effect of Witchcraft; his Head and all his Limbs being distorted, and drawn into very strange and unnatural Postures: Whereupon this Deponent applied himself to fevetal eminent Physicians for their Afftftance therein, and in particidar to the late Dr• Ratcliffe and Dr. Cade, who, after this Deponent had been under their Hands for upwards of four Tears, sent him to the Bath for a Cure, but without any Effect, *, and his long languijhing under the aid Distemper, cost him upwards of Five D 4 Hun 
C 4° 3 
Hundred Pounds, besides the Ruin of his Trade in bis Calling of an ivholefale Tobacconist; no twit h fla'nding all which, he found no Relief, but grew fill worse: : which, this Deponent, hearing of one Mr. Duncan Campbell, and being made sensible of many surprising Cures which he had performed, as fet forth in the History of the said Campbel’} Life; he, this Deponent, applied himself to the said Duncan Campbell, for his Advice and. Assistance in the said Difiemper; who, in a few Mimths, by god’s Blessing, perfectly cured this Deponent thereof insomuch that this Deponent hath ever since (being about ten Tears) been blessed with a very good State of Health, and been totally freed from the said Dijlemper, ‘ 
Richard Coates, 
Jurat 8. Jan. 1725. a pud 
Sergeants inn, in chan cery lanc, coram me 
R. Raymond. 
This is a Testimonial which no body will dare to doubt the Truth of •, and several of the like Nature were made before Thomas Botelar, Esq; one of his majefty’s Justices of the Peace for Wefiminfter. What I did in these Cafes were esteemed Miracles. I became so famous for the many Cures I did, that People, who had the least Reason to imagine themselves under an ill Tongue, would entreat me to lay my Hands on them, if I did no more *, believing there was. Virtue 
C 41 1 
Virtue enough, even in a Touch of mine, to remove whatever Malignity they laboured under. 
There was one Patient I had, which I cannot forbear making Mention of •, she was the Daughter of a Farmer, and seized in a strange Manner as she was going to Rumford Market, her Limbs distorted, and the Use of her Senses taken away: Her Parents were greatly afflicted, and sent her to London for the Physicians Advice. The House she was at, belonged to a Relation of her Mother, and was a Potter in Tioly street, Southwark; she remained there sometime, and no Money was spared in order to recover her: Doctors, Surgeons, and Apothecaries were consulted.. none of them knew what to make of her Distemper. I was her last re fource, and had no sooner cast my Eye on her, than 1 knew the Cause by which she was aggrieved, and told the Company, that she was bewitched; on which, one of them presently cried out, "That Jhe believed it was so, for she had heard the Girl often Jay, she could not be quiet for an old Woman, and that she would 'point to a Corner of the Room, and say she food there, and seemed very angry no body elfe could see her.. They begged me to use my utmost Endeavours for her, which I promised, and at the same Time allured them, that I did not doubt, with god’s Assistance, making a perfect Cure in a short Time. Accordingly I used Means to bring the Witch to London and when I knew what I had done would 
prove 
C 4* 3 
prove effectual, I went to the House where (lie was, and told the People, I would not depart till I had left their Cousin as well as ever she was in her Life. They looked on me with Astonishment, as not being able to believe it possible for me to make good my Words, she being (till as bad as when I first saw her : I bad them have Patience, and mark the End, but said, It would he Midnight before anything could he done, As I had told them, the Clock had not struck Twelve many Minutes, before they heard somebody knock at the Door i they would have opened it, but I forbade them, till after the third Knock, which being given, I made the Girl herself, and all the Family, go down with me, who were Witnesses, that as soon as I had opened the Door, an ill favour*d old Woman, who stood before it, fell down on her Knees to me, and begged I would give her Leave to return. The young Woman immediately fhriek*d, and laid, That was the Woman who haunted her Bay and Night, and tonnenied her. On which, the vile Wretch redoubled her Prayers, that I would release her : I knew my Work was done, and unloosed the Spell that had compelled her to come thither, by giving her a small Blow with my Cane. After this, we went into the Houle again, and my Patient was perfectly recovered, and could now tell us, That as she was going to Market, she rnet this Woman, who, on her refufmg to give her a Couple of Eggs that she begged 'of her, told her, it floould he worse for her; then went away muttering something which jhe did not 
under 
C 43 3 
understand, w&f that Minute fteixed in the Manner 
before described. The Relations of this Girl have often call’d upon me when they came on this Side the Water, and informed me, That Jhehas never relapsed, and is since married, and has Jeveral Children, This Cure I performed about fifteen Years agoi 
I should be too tedious in attempting to relate the twentieth Part of the Number of Children to whom I have been serviceable, even though they were reduced fb low by the Force of an ill Tongue, as to be looked upon as Changelings *, I shall, therefore, trouble my Reader only with one which has something so astonishing in its Circumstances, as, I flatter myself, will excite no less Pleasure than Surprise. 
It was the only Daughter of Mr. Thefton, a Gentleman of a competent Estate in Berkshire, *, was about three Years old, and a peculiar Favourite, not only for being one of the moil beautiful Infants in the World, but because she was the last Pledge of a most dear and tenderly beloved and loving Wife, who died in bringing her into the World. This Child was, one Day, at Play before the Door with her Nurse, when an old Woman asked her for a Piece of Cake she had in her Hand, which she not readily giving, the Witch gave three Strokes on the Ground with a Stick she leaned on, and cried out as loud as she could, Meeli! Mali! Meeli! for several 
Times 
t 44 1 
Times together, and then run away as swiftly as a Girl of Fifteen •, though' the Nurse, who gave this Account, said, She appeared to he near a Hundred, and seemed so decrepit before, as though jhe could Jcarce creep along. The Moment she was out of Sight, the Child began to cry, and presently after, the Noise fly made could be compared to nothing but the Mewing of a Cat; in short, from that Time the Use of Speech was taken away *, her pretty innocent Prattle, and the many little Actions which so much endear those of her Age to Parents, was now changed into a Behaviour far different * fire crawl’d upon all Four *, fly spit upon everybody that offered.to touch her, and on the nurfe’s dreffmg or undressing her, fell into such Pafftons, that sloe even foamed at the Mouth. Never Trouble exceeded that of poor Mr. Tiverton; after having had Recourse to all the Help. the Country afforded, he brought her to Town, but with as little Success, though', as he told me himself, it had cofl him more than three hundred Pounds. Mrs. Majon, my good Friend, at lafl advised him to me •, he came, and brought the Child, the Cause of whole Misfortune I presently perceived, and described in a Bit of Paper the very Picture of the Wretch who had laid the cursed Spell upon her, as the Nurse, who Fill attended her, confessed. As the Accident happened in Berkjhire, I found it very difficult to work a Cure here •, for this pernicious Agent of Hell had made Use of other Means, I found than the Witch who had afflicted the Rumford 
Maid, 
r 4 5i 
Maid, and it was not in my Power to bring her to London, as I had done the other; nor would Mr. Tiverton's Circumstances allow him to make a Gratification for going to Berkjhire, proportionable to the Lois it would have been to my Family, that I should be so long absent from London. I gave him, however, a Paper sealed up, which I ordered should be half stuck in the Ground, and the other half out, justin the Place, as near as the Nurse could remember, where the Witch had stood at the Time of her speaking to the Child : This I strictly charged should not be moved by any Person belonging to him *, and to prevent a Stranger, who might accidentally pafs that Way, from plucking it out, I defined he would place a Servant, Night and Day, to watch it: My Advice Was punctually 'followed, and he wrote to me to inform me, that the third Night an old Woman was seen to hanker about the Place, but the Vigilance of the Servants preventing her from touching the Paper, she came the next Day, and begg’d she might see the Child, which she being, according to my Orders, permitted, she uttered, in a low Voice, some unintelligible Words, and went out of the House with the utmost Speed : From that Moment the poor Babe recovered her former Accents and Behaviour, to the Surprise of the whole Country, and the inexpressible Joy of her Father, who did not fail to send me an immediate Account of the Success of my Prescription, and the Reward agreed for between us, if it had 
the 
r 46 ] 
the desired Effect *, which, I confess, I did not greatly depend on myself, unless I could have been there in Person, so strong was the diabolical Influence over her. Yet, through the merciful af fiftance of gracious Providence, the Mysteries of Hell were unravelled, and my little Patient perfectly restored, and remained foto her Death, which happened some Years afterwards, of the Smallpox. 
Numberless are the Testimonials may be given, that there are still Wretches on Earth so abandon’d as to sell their Eternal Happiness hereafter, for the vile Satisfaction they take in doing Mischief, *, I sincerely wish, that those Persons who are of a different Opinion, may never be convinced by wofully experiencing the Effects on themselves of what they give so little Credit to oh others 
C H A P. 
t 47 I 
CHAP. V 
On the Various Deceptions endeavoured to he pul on Me. 
Tip Y telling Names at first Sight, ap m pears so prodigious a Thing to all the World, that it is not surprising i many who have not been allured of it themselves, should doubt the Truth of it, when told it by others. Nor do I blame the Caution of thole Persons who refuse their Faith to everything (excepting the Divine Mysteries) that is not to be accounted for by Reason. The Second Sight is an Inspiration wholly Supernatural, and none but those really poffeil of it, can form any Idea what it is: therefore the Wonders wrought by it," may well seem Fabulous to those who prove em not. Those who were too much prejudiced to make the Trial, have rendered what I pretend to this Way, a Handle to asperse me with the Title of an Impojiure : Others, of a more candid Disposition, have thought fit to prove before they judged; and after having done so, have thought nothing too much to do for me, to atone for their past Diffidence: Of this Number was 
the. 
I 48 ] 
the late Duchess of Wharton, who, on the 28th of May, 1723, when all the World were paying their Compliments at St. James's, took that Opportunity to divert herself with the pretended Conjurer, (as Ihe thought) or at least to satisfy herself, whether I was such or not. 
Accordingly she came with hernurfeand Woman, but more meanly habited than either of them : I was gone to take my Morning Walk in the Park, when this Visit was made; but my Wife telling them that I would return soon, they consented to stay, though not without some Difficulty. They told her, That they were all Servants in one Family, and Should get Anger if mijjed. The Nurse passed for the Housekeeper, the Duchess for Chambermaid, and her Woman for Cook. 
As I happened to stay that Morning somewhat longer than ordinary, my Wife met me upon the Staircase, and told me on her Fingers, The Devil was in me to run about so and neglect my Business; that there was three. Servants had waited for me an Hour and a Half, and she had much acto persuade them to stay. I made her no Answer, but threw off my Greatcoat, and went into the Room. They had all wrote their several quef tions ready for me. 
The 
t 49 3 
- The dutchefs’s was as follows. 
SIR, I have a very good Place, though my Lady is Jomewhat peevish, and my lord’s Gentleman is Very much my Enemy, and has made a thousand Lies on me, so that I am threatened to he turned away every Hour. 1 desire to know if he will get his Ends or not. Pray he fipeedy, for if my Lady, who is now Abroad, should come Home, and I out of the Way, I mufi not expel to lie another Night in the House. 
The Nurse wrote in this Manner. 
S JR, I have a Son at Sea, a wild Touth, hut very Ingenious : I would know if he will come Home Jafe, and what Lime I may expect him, and if he will make a good Voyage. 
The Woman wrote no more than these Words 
S IR, I have no particular Question, hut dsfire to know, in general, if I am designed to a good or had Fate. 
I read their Papers, and then made a Sign, that Ihe who would be first answered should go up; on which there was a great Dispute, who should have the Preheminence *, but at length yielded to the seeming Housekeeper, both on the Account of her Age, and being upper Servant: But this Contest giving me an Opportunity of looking more steadfastly on them, than I usually do, till they go up, and I have placed myfelfina sit E Position 
P 5*0 1 
Position, I saw enough to know they were putting a Trick upon me; and, therefore, taking the Duchess by the Hand, I, in a Manner, compelled her to take the Precedence. I was not many Minutes above with her, before i answered her Question in these Terms. 
TO U serve no Lady, but a Lord, who, thd the most accomplished and wittiejl Man of the Age, has Humours which take away all the Happiness of Grandeur : Those Women below are your Attendants, but taste more Felicity than your Grace, because they have only the Pleajure of the best of Women to consult', you have that of the most capricious of Men. 
The Duchess had no sooner read this than Ihe turned as pale as Death, trembled, and had all the Symptoms of an approaching Swoon. I knew it was occasioned only by her Surprise, and that Ihe would soon recover; but thinking it might be a Prejudice to her, ihe being young with Child, I stamped for my Wife, who run for a Bottle of Spirits, and some fair Water; the Women below, hearing the Noise, followed her, and by their Assiduities about the indif pofed, made my Wife know Ihe was more than their Equal. 
When Ihe came to herself, ihe showed the Paper I had wrote, and ingenuously confefskb She. came to try my skillk mt believing it possible 1 
could 
C 5*1 ] 
could do the 'Things I pretended to; hut floe was now convinced that I was more than even my befi Friends coidd represent me. The Women were in the utmofi Ajionijhment, and looked on me as a kind of pro digy. 
After this, she proceeded to ask me several Questions, not only concerning herself and the Duke, but alio of Matters relating to the State, to which I returned such Answers, as more assured her I was enabled to do it by no Intelligence, but an intellectual One. 
I had the Honour of her grace’s Company almost the whole Day, my Lord Duke being at that Time out of Town; and I have been since informed, that ihe showed him several of my Papers, and that the frequent Visits she made me afterwards, were as much by his Desire as her own; and, I believe, I may say, without Vanity, that the Alteration in his Conduct towards her, so much for the better, was owing to what 1 wrote. 
Just such another Artifice, immediately after this, was practised on me by a young Lady, who, though not yet arrived to a Title, will not long be without one, and may be said to merit thenobleft, if Virtue, Wit, good-humour, and the most perfect Beauty Nature ever made, can do it, 
I P 3 
She came to me in a plain Stuff Gown, a coarse houfewife’s Apron, and a round ear’d Cap •, the Person who accompanied her, was habited in much the same Manner, but neither so Young nor so Handsome by many Degrees *, (he seemed, however, to an ordinary Eye, to be the Superior of the two, and accordingly presented her Question first;; I presently saw through the Deception, and pushing her away, took the young Beauty and placed her in an Eafy chair, and pointed to the other to stand behind it, taking, at the same Time, a Whip in my Hand, which always hangs by the Chimney in my Diningroom, in order to keep the Dogs in Subjection, and fmacked it several Times. The Astonishment they were both in is not to be expressed;; I took my Pen, and wrote in this Manner. 
T IS not the Habit can deceive me; I see the Personas it is, and regard not the outward Orna' menls. You, young Charmer, are at present distinguished by the jvorld only for your Beauty and good Qualities, but in a little Time will loje the 
Name of fine Mrs. — — — —, for my Lady -- -- -- -- -- 
You, who wanted to know your Fortune fir ft, have already made it, by being Servant to so good a Mi ft refs, and marrying the Coachman, who is a very honest Man, and by whom you are now with Child of a Girl. 
If 
t S 3 1 
If they were amazed before, they were now much more so; and finding it in vain to continue their Disguise, frankly owned it, anyl a Iked my Pardon. I told them, I was far fr^n condemning Jo innocent a Fraud; nay, on the contrary, wished that all who had the leajl Diffidence in me, would take the same Measures to be convinced. I then related to them many Endeavours of the like kind to deceive and pose me, with my dif coveries of them, which very much diverted the young Lady, who sent for a Bottle - of French Wine, and a Piece of Salmon, and was heartily merry for three or four Hours. 
Did I not fear it might draw Reflections on some of my fair Confulters, I could recount a Number who made use of those Stratagems, particularly, a certain Countess, who, being a Brunetta, and of the largest Size for her Sex, thought to deceive me, by coming in the Habit of the other *, the Wife of a Baronet, who coloured her Face, and Neck, and wore a Jacket and Petticoat, in order to pafs on me for a mo lotta Slave *, but I choose rather to lose the Honour of being able to discover the true Person from the Counterfeit, than make any Mention of those Persons real Names, to whom it would be a Prejudice, and to give them feigned ones, would make this, which is in every Particular a true History, favour of Romance. 
E 3 But 
t 54 3 
But I think it not so strange, that Women, to whom Curiosity is inherent, Should take this extraordinary Pains, as I do at that of the Men : If they believe me an Impostor, or an ignorant Pretender, let them enjoy their Opinion, I never did, nor never will, give myself any Trouble to confute it; his enough for me to please those who confide in me: In that my Ambition is satisfied, and I would choose rather to be Easy than Great. But I have very good Reasons to be allured, that those Gentlemen who have endeavoured to find me out, as they call it, took not that Pains merely to expose me, as they pretended, and to undeceive the World, but to consult me themselves, In cafe I should be found not deficient. So much is the Desire of being informed of future Events grafted in the Soul, that none, of whatever Sex, but would prefer that Knowledge to any other. 
every bqdy who has been with me, knows that when I have any very difficult Questions put to me, I go into the Air, leaving my Consulter alone for sometimes half an Hour, more or less, according as the Inspiration comes upon me, and enables me to give a Solution. I was one Day going on one of these little Progresses, when I was saluted at my Door by three Gentlemen, whole Habit and Deportment bespoke them to be Persons of Distinction. As they understood not the Finger Talk, I whittled for my Wife 
to 
t 55 1 
to come down and know their Commands, to whom one of them said, He was my Countryman, and that the others were of the Court of France, and just arrived here, hut that the Same of the wonder full Things I had done had reached their Ears, and, they believed, were not unknown to all the polite Courts of Europe : That this Visit was only intended to pay a Compliment to a Man so justly efteemtd. My Wife then told them, That Ladies being in the House, who were averse to feeing any of their Sex, except him they came to consult, it was impojjible for me to receive the Honour they did me, but in an Hour or two I Should be free from other Company, and woidd then devote myself to them entirely. All this being in an ill Light, my Door Handing under an Arch, I could not distinguish the phy liognomy of any of those that spoke;; they were not gone half a Minute, before my good Genius informed me, this was no friendly yifita tion, and bad me Hand upon my Guard when they should return, as they promised to do at the Time prefixed by my Wife. As she had promised, however, that I would give them my Company, I would not avoid feeing them, and accordingly dispatched my Ladies with all the Speed I could, that I might be ready to receive them. They failed not to come, and after a Cup or two of Punch, began to put several Questions to me in a ludicrous Way, to all which I gave this general Answer. 
E 4 
Gen[ 
[ 1 
Gentlemen, for such I know you are, not lj your Habit, but my own innate Intelligence, if you come with a real Desire of being informed of anything within the Compass of my Art, I shall do my Rest to satisfy you *, or if you aim only at being diverted, I am as ready to promote Mirth as yourselves: : would beg you to remember I am a Gentleman aijo, and as I never offend against the Rules of good Manners, expect the same Decorum to be used towards me. 
Having delivered this to them with a serious Air, I observed them to look on one another with some Confusion, and, at length, freely own’d, That they came with no other Design than to banter me, but my Behaviour convincing them I was not the Person I had been reprejented, they acknowledged their Error, and Should be glad of a farther Acquaintance. I then gave them to understand I knew they were all Engfifbmen; and, without a Fee, wrote several Hints to each of them, which let them see I was no Impostor, and had it in my Power to reveal what moult they desired fhoulcf be kept secret. The Conversation was, however, maintained with the utmost good-humour, and innocent Pleaiantry, amongst us, for the whole Evening; after which, they took Leave, alluring; me, They would hear nothing spoken to my Disadvantage for the future, by any Person in their Company. I have had, fmce, good Reason to believe what they laid, having received many signal Favours 
C 57 1 
yours from all three, but especially from one, who, I mull own, has been the belt and fmcerefi Friend I ever met with. 
Inexpressibly difficult have been the Tasks I have had put upon me, and had I fail’d in anyone of them, as I mull have done if my good Angel had not been extremely watchful CI thole Occasions, it would have patted current in die World, that I was an Impostor. For instance, a Gentleman of great Worth and Honour, and my very good Friend and Champion, happened one Day into some Company, where I was made the Subject of the utmost Ridicule; one seemed more inveterate than the rest, and said, He knew I could not tell any Per Jon's Name, without being firjl informed of it by some Spy or other; adding, That he knew I kept a Pack of Vagabond Fellows on purpose to watch Home thoje who came to consult me. My Friend, who was entirely satisfied of the contrary, offered to lay a Wager of twenty Guineas on my Head, that I would tell the Name of any Person he should bring to me; the other readily took him up, but on this Condition, that it should be one who was a Stranger to all the Company. My Defender agreed, and to make the Matter more sure, they all adjourn’d that Afternoon to an adjacent Tavern, whence my Friend, by Content of them all, wrote me a Line, desiring to speak with me that Moment, on extraordinary Business, but made no Mention of what Nature : I was a little indisposed when 
the 
I C *8 ] 
the Porter brought this Letter to me, but having a great Regard for the Gentleman that sentit, drefs’d myself, and complied immediately with his Summons. I was not a little surprised to find so great a Number of fine Ladies and Gentlemen with him, there being thirteen in Number. I had not been long sat down, before my Friend told me, I was to tell the name of a Person I should see in a little white : On which, I began to excuse myself on Account of my in difpofition, for, indeed, I was not in a Humour for Business at that Time. I had no foonerfeem’d to evade it, but I perceived a malicious Smile sit on the Faces of all the Company, except my Friend, who appeared as much displeased, and wrote again, That he had laid a Wager on my ■ Head, and if I did not 'perforin now, as usual, he should have Reason to take it ill: On which, X return’d, That to oblige him, and vindicate my oven Honour, I would do much. I then desired to know Which of those Strangers, for they were all such to me, I was to try my Art upon : But they would not consentit should be any that was known to my Friend, left by some private Token he might inform me. It was, at last, agreed, that two of the Gentlemen should stand at the Door, and desire the first Person that came by, and feem’d to have Sense enough not to be displeased at the Jest, to come in. This was accordingly done, and they brought in a Man of about fifty Years of Age. I must confess, I was much longer before I satisfied the Curiosity of these People, than 
ordinary, 
L 59 1 
ordinary, the Compulsion, as it were, that was put on me, the Wjtticifms I perceived were made by my Adversaries, and the Impatience of my Friend, involved me in Thoughts not at all to the Furtherance of what I was to do. iaccomplilh’d it, however, tho’ this Person had three Names, and very uncommon ones, viz. Azariah Tomlin ion Blackenthorpr, which I wrote down in the same Manner, not missing one Letter, as he himself confessed, as he spelled them : He, moreover, told the Company, That he was an American born and was never in England more than a Month at a Time in three or four Tears j so that it was impossible Chance jjsould ever have made us acquainted. 
My Friend now triumph’d, and the others look’d as much confused as they had been gay before; they did not fail, however, to treat me with the utmost Civility, and I had, afterwards, V ifits from them all; the very Person who laid the Wager against me, doing nothing, from that Time, without my Advice. 
I had another Trial, of much the same Nature with this, put upon me : It was to tell the Name of a Boy, who £ame a hundred Miles Distance, to serve in a Coffee houfc, and was arrived but the Moment they sent for me, nor had told his Name to any Person but his Matter : This Affair terminated to my Advantage and Honour, a great many Gentlemen of the best 
Fashion, 
t 6q 1 
Fashion, as well as others, being prefen £ when L fulfilled the Request made to me. 
Many more of these Examples could I give my Reader, but I choose to confine myself to a few which have happened of late Years, and yet fresh in the Memory of my Friends; and are Efficient to, prove my Art is not to be deceived by any Stratagems whatsoever. 
CHAP. VI 
On Omens: Which are to he depended on, and which not. 
OTHING is more contrary to J good Sense, than imagining every b thing we lee and hear is a Prognof 6 tick either of Good or Evil, except it be the Belief that nothing is foi have known People who have been put into such terrible ap prehenfions of Death by the squeaking of a wea zel, as have been very near bringing on them the Fate they dreaded. Others have thought themselves secure of receiving Money, if their Hands itched, or, by chance, a little Spider fell upon their Clothes; Some will defer going Abroad? 
thar 
61 : 
though called by Bufinels of the greatest confe quence, if, happening to look out of the Window, they see a Angle Crow j or going out, are met by a Person who has the Misfortune to squint; either of these turns ’em immediately back, and, perhaps, by delaying till another Time what requires an immediate Difpacth, the Affair goes wrong, and the Omen is, indeed, fulfill’d, which, but for the Superstition of the Observer, would have been of no Effect. 
How many People have I seen in the mod terrible Palpitations, for Months together, expecting, every Hour, the Approach of some Calamity, only by a little Worm which breeds in old Wainscot, and endeavouring to eat its Way out, makes a Noise like the Movement of a Watch. Others again, by having caught Cold, feel a certain Noise in their Heads, which seems to them like the Sound of distant Bells, fancy themselves warned of some great Misfortune. 
The Fire also affords a kind of Divination to these omen mongers •, they see Swords, Guns, Castles, Churches, Prisons, Coffins, Wedding rings, Bags of Money, Men and Women, or whatever ehey either fear or wiih, plainly decy phered in the glowing Coals. 
There are others who, from the Clouds, calculate the Incidents that are to befall them, and see Men on Horseback, Mountains, Ships, 
Forests, 
C 61 J 
Forests, and a thousand other fine Things In the Air j but to see a New Moon the first Time after her Change, on the right hand, or directly before you, betokens the utmoll good Fortune that Month; as to have her on your Left j or behind you, so that in turning your Head back you happen to see her, forefhews the worst j as also, they say, to be without Gold in your Pocket at that Time is of very bad Confer qiience. 
I have seen People, who, after writing a Letter, have prognosticated to themselves the ill Success of it, if, by any Accident, it happened to fall on the Ground : Others have feem’d as impatient, and exclaiming against their own Want of Thought, if, thro’ Hall or Forgetfulness, they have chanced to hold it before the Fire to dry : But the Mistake of a Word in it, is a Hire Omen that whatever Requell it carries, shall be refused. Who was the first Inventor of these Forebodings, I know not, but they are now so much the Fashion, especially among the fair Sex, that it is a kind of Rarity to find one free from it. 
There are, indeed, secret Warnings given, I believe, to all Men, by their better Angels, which ought no more to be neglected, than the Absurdities I have made Mention of, should pafs for anything but what they are, the mere Effects of Chance. 
Few 
C 63 1 
Few Men in these latter and more corrupted Ages of the World, have Sanctity of Manners, and Piety of Mind, sufficient to entitle them to the Conversation of blelfed Spirits, Face to Face, as did the Patriarchs of old; and almost as few who, without that Purity of Soul, have the Gift of Second Sight, as it is vulgarly called, but which is no other, in Reality, than the Power of difeern ing incorporeal Beings: How, therefore, should those ministering Spirits, which the Divine good nefs sets over us as Guardians, communicate their Instructions, excite us to good Actiops, deter us from bad ones, or give Notice of the extraordinary Events that shall befall us, but by intellectual Remonstrances: : which rises in the Mind on the sudden, and according to the Will of the supreme Director of all Things, either dwells in it for a long Time, or fleets away like a Flash of Lightning, which we neither know whence derived, nor whither fled, but once gone, is no more to be recovered. How often do People say, Such a "Thing run in their Head? and tho’, according to worldly judging, there was, at that Time, no visible Reason for their acting in such or such a Manner, yet being fway’d by this Impulse, they could not avoid doing it: Others, again, have cried, I had once a Thought to go on this or that Expedition, but it went out of my Head. These are, certainly, the Conferences which the Soul holds, unknown to the Body, with the invisible World, and, I believe, none, 
except 
C 6 4 ] 
except Idiots or Lunatics, but have experienc’d, more or less, of these Transitions of the Mind. 
But as the evil Angels are also sometimes permitted to infuse their pernicious Instincts, it requires both Religion and Penetration to know the one from the other *, because these Ministers of Darkness are too subtle to bid a Man who is not a professed Enemy of Virtue, do an Action directly contrary to it; no, they disguise the Poison they endeavour to instil, under the Name of a Cordial •, they do not directly persuade to an ill Action, but to something which has the Show of Good, but must infallibly draw on the contrary. Nor do our Guardian Angels always inspire what is moll pleasing, our Senses come in for their Part, and will not suffer the Soul to operate as she would do : Hence we listen to such Injunctions with Reluctance, and too frequently repel them entirely. 
So weak is human Nature, and so little, while clogg’d with earthly Views, and ever craving Pa (lions, are we able to judge rightly of these intellectual Admonitions •, happy are they who are so highly favoured, to make a wise Choice; and, I think, there is nothing for which we should so constantly and earnestly entreat of Heaven, as the Capacity of knowing which of those various Suggestions which we call, and have no other Name for, than our own Thoughts, should be complied with, and which rejected. 
The 
[ 6s 1 
The mod plain arid remarkable Way, however, by which these Monitors convey their in ftructions to us are in Dreams •, and though home who would be thought very wise, laugh at all who give any Regard to them, yet, I believe, his easy to prove, not only from common gb fervation, but from Authorities which no body, who owns the Being of a God, will dare to dispute, that in all Ages of the World, thole Meri have been looked on as the moil Learned and Sagacious, who have known best how to interpret them. 
I n Sleep the Soul acts apart from the Body ’■> she is released from all those Impediments which confine her Knowledge $ and could we, waking, remember, all we have seen inthofe Interval, I am apt to believe, Futurity would not be so strange to us *, but at our Return to Sense, all that is passed dwells but confusedly in the Mind •, we can relate but Part, and that too appears so dark, fb wrapped up in Clauds, and mingled with other Ideas, that it gives a very faint Resemblance of all those Things which the Soul, I do not doubt, has seen clearly, and without Deception. 
Are not the Holy Scriptures full of Examples, how God himself was pleased to reveal himself h/dreams; and I know not, if Moses plucking off his Shoes to speak to God in the Bull, was not meant parabolically •, for as all 
F Things 
C 66 3 
Things are not to be unclerftood literally, efpe cialjy in that Time when Hierogliphicks were so much used;; see no Reason why, by the plucking off’ his Shoes, might not be meant, that, in Sleep, he threw off all the Passions of the Senses, and had his Soul at Liberty to entertain, and listen to his great Creator, 
Nay, even in the New 'Teftdment, who can judge of St. Paul's being taken into the Third Heaven, any otherwise, than that in a Beatific Vision, his Soul was presented with a View of that glorious Place. 
9t i s, therefore, methinks, as profane, as it is absurd, to make a Jeff, or despise the Admonitions given us in Sleep; but, even here, as well as in our waking Thoughts, the fallen Angels have Power to tempt and to delude the imagination: As for Example, if a covetous, and sordidly avaritious Man dream, that he is showed the Way to a Rich man’s Coffers, and, at his Will, plunders them : Or, if a Man, given up to unlawful Pleasures, in Sleep, fatiates his luff full Appetite in the Embraces of his neighbour’s Wife or Daughter, either of thefemay very well judge such Phantoms arise only by the Subtlety of the Devil, who tempts him with an imaginary Possession of what he wishes, in order to heighten his Desires, and render him capable of slicking at nothing, be it never so wicked, in order to compass his Intent, 
Ha vs 
I 67 ] 
Have not even, in latter Days, many wonderful Discoveries been made by Dreams; would not many an Heir, who now lives in the moult plenteous Manner, have been driven to feck his Bread from Charity, or lome servile Employment, had not his Birthright been render’d to him by a Dream? Would not many a Murderer, who, for bathing his Elands in the heart’s Blood of his Fellow-creature, his Neighbour, his Friend, his Brother, or, perhaps, his Wife, justly yielded up his Life to the Gallows, be now alive, and triumph in his Crime, believing he had been too secret in it, even for the Eye of Heaven, had not the detestable Fact been revealed in a Dream? 
And yet, for all that can be urged, either from Sacred or Profane History, to give Credit to Dreams, is looked on, as a fit Subject for Ridicule, though I do not remember any one per fon, whether Male or Female, in the whole Course of my long and nume’ ous Acquaintance, who has not confessed, on being seriously asked, That jometime or other, in their Lives, they have had, extraordinary Warnings in Dreams, if they 'would have taken Notice of them. 
One, in particular, who, in Public, feerned to despise all Regard of Dreams, as savouring too much of Superstition, acknowledged to me, in Private, That being in great Danger of Ruin, F 2 fort 
68 3 
for the Sum of 'Two hundred Pounds, he had Thoughts of borrowing it of a Relation, who, though Zy many reafons, Obligation of serving him, he 
knew to be of a Difpoftion which would not suffer him very readily to comply with his Request: : Humour made the Borrower, who was of a pretty high Spirit, in Debate with himself, as ho lay in Bed, if he hold choose Ruin, or an Obligation from so churlish a Person, •, he went to Sleep half resolved to run the Hazzard of the former : But his good Angel was kinder to him in this Exigence, than his Unbelief deserved j and he dreamed, that being with his Coufm, he had asked him for the Money, who answered, That he had not so much at Command, at that Time, but that, he believed, Mr. such a One, naming a Person he knew very well would lend it him, if he would consent to pay a trifling Inter eft. As little as he regarded any Admonitions of this Kind, the Dream made so great an Imprelfion on him, that it changed the Intention he had formed before he Hept, and early in the Morning, went to seek his Coufm, who repeated to him the very Words he had imagined he heard him speak in his Dream; accordingly, he applied to the Person mentioned, ot whom, otherwise, he laid, hefhould not have had the lead: Thought, and had the Money he desired. 
Is it then not strangely ungrateful to the Power which has sofar condescended to give us Directions, how to proceed, not to acknowledge the 
Favours 
r 69 ^ 
Favours we receive? Yet are there People, who, after repeated Instances of the Goodness of a directing Providence, have not only denied, but profanely ascribed that to their own Prudence, which could not be foreseen without the immediate Interposition of a Being infinitely superior. 
1 Knew a Sea surgeon, who having been a long Time out of Business, and by that Means reduced to very unhappy Circumfiances, was glad, at last, to engage himself, as surgeon’s Mate? with a Master of one of those Ships which go o Greenland, on the Whale fifhery, and, accordingly, had put his Chest of Instruments, Bed, and Clothes, on Board, and lay, himself, at Gravejend, waiting the filling down of the vef fel: Some few Nights before he expected to sail, a venerable Old Man appeared to him in his Sleep, and bad him, Give over all Thoughts of his Voyage, for the Ship would certainly he lost. The. Dream a little troubled him, but the Remembrance of it soon passed over, till, the second Night, he saw the same Vision again, and the Injunction repeated. This made him begin to think there was something more than ordinary in it, and he could not forbear communicating it to the Head surgeon, who lay in the same House with him *, but this Man, being too wise, in his own Conceit, to regard Dreams, laughed at his Superstition, and began to repeat several of his own, which seemed remarkable, but no 
C 70 1 
thing, as he said, of Moment happened after them This kind of Discourse again embolden’d him, and, he resolved, in Spite of Omens, to prosecute his Voyage. Well, the third Night, as he lay in Bed, he imagined himself on Board, encompassed with all the Terrors of the Deep, when the Winds and Waves seem to threaten not only those that tempt their Fury, but even those who endeavour to be most secure on Land : He thought the Ship struck, with the utmost Violence, on a Rock, and was staved in a thousand Pieces; that he saw the Matter clinging to a Plank, and floating for a Moment, then sunk down beneath a mountainous Billow, which came ruffling over him on a sudden: : the same Time Fancy presented him with various dreadful Images of others of the ship’s Crew, perishing in the Storm : The Terror of this Object made him awake with a loud Cry, which was heard by several in thehoufe, who, believing something extraordinary was the Matter, ran hastily into his Chamber, where they found him on his Knees, thanking God he was on Shore, and so lemniy vowing, not to trust himself in a Vefiel, which he was now allured would never come Home fife. Nor could all the Perluafions, or Ridicule of those who talked to him on this Plead, nor his own Misfortunes, which threatened him with almost starving, prevail with him to undertake this Voyage j but the Wind being fair in. a few Hours, he fetched his Things 
from 
C 71 1 
from the Ship, and suffered it to depart without him. 
The same God who had warned him of the threatened Evil, soon after remedied his diftref fes, by raising him a Friend, who recommended him to an Eajl india Captain, with whom he went, and made a fife and profitable Voyage j but, at his Return, inquiring after the Gree nlanh Vessel heard it was sunk, and all the Men lost, as he had seen in his Dream, or rather Vision. 
To what, then, can we ascribe these Warnings, but to a good Angel; who, while the Faculties of the Body are dead to everything, converses with the Soul, and reveals to it as much as the Divine Wisdom thinks fit to permit? Those who are above taking Notice of these intellectual and spiritual Counsels, may imagine themselves Persons of Sagacity, and pafs in the World for such, but, doubtless, sometime or other, will repent their Unbelief, and when the Mischief they are bid to avoid, falls on therrq will wish, too late, in Bitterness of Heart, that they had been less wise, or, at least, had lef^ affected to be so. 
This was the Cafe of a young Man, who, being of a roving Disposition, would needs quit his Father, whose Darling he was, and go a broad to see the World, as he called it: He several Times hinted his Inclination, but the old F 4 ' Man 
C 72, 1 
Man would, by no Means, be brought to con lent to it, telling him, That he was of great Years, and had now no Comfort of Life, hut in his Presence;; Azh Person to manage 
his Affairs, •zcwj', himself incapable of doing it, 
/; fi Absence would be of the ntmofi Detriment. Perceiving, therefore, there was no Hope of parting by Consent, the undutiful Wretch resolved to go away privately, which wicked Design he ac compliihed, taking away as much Money and Plate as he thought would be sufficient to support him for a considerable Time. The Night after his Elopement, he dreamed, that he was lying in a fine Field, the Element above him, the moult serene and beautiful that could be, but, as he was contemplating, he perceived something dark over his Head, which turning to examine, he found it proceeded from a Pair of huge Scales that hung, poised by an invisible Hand, in the Air, but lo low, that he feared their falling on him, and crushing him with their Weight \ a little farther, he beheld, but much higher, a Sword, that with its Keenness seemed to cut the Clouds which encompassed it, and at the Point hung Drops of clotted Blood: Turning his Eyes from so terrible a Prospect, he cast them to the other Side of the Hemiiphere, which presented itself to him full of innumerable Circles that were cut cross and cross by other Lines, and from the Middle of each, long Darts shot forth, with all their Points levelled at him : He told me, That m a frojly Plight the Sky is not more spangled with 
Stars, 
C 73 1 
Stars, than in his Bream it appeared with Circles. He awoke much terrified, but, as many others do, thought it childish, or foolish, to regard any Occurrences which should befall in 
In short, he went on his intended Progress, but had not proceeded far, before he met with Robbers, who took from him all the Money and Bills he had about him, and being obliged to beg his Way to the Place where he expected a Recruit, having left the Plate he took from his Father, in the Hands of a wild Companion of his, who was to dispose of it, and remit the Money by the Poll *, but having waited a considerable Time, and no Letter arriving, he wrote to an Acquaintance, to inquire after this unfaithful Steward, who sent him the melancholy Account, That he was gone to the Indies. Having lived on Credit, and now without Means to discharge the Obligations he had contracted, he was thrown into Prison, whence he had no Hope of being relieved, but by the Goodness of a forgiving Father, to whom he, therefore, wrote, acknowledging his Fault, like the Prodigal in Scripture, and begging to be again received; But his Penitence, if real, came too late; the old Man had paid the Debt of Nature, declaring, with his last Words, That the Bifohedience and Wickedness of his Son had broke his Heart. Nobody who had any Regard to the Heir being jprefent, his Effects were, in a Manner, caff Lots 
for, 
r 74 3 
far, every one getting a Part, but him who had the foie Right to the Whole. 
The poor Prisoner, therefore, remained so, without Relief, without Hope, without Sufferance, but what he received from the Hands of common Charity *, and to these Calamities, a greater still added, which was the Reflection that all this had fallen on him, entirely thro’ his own Obstinacy. 
Having lingered many Months in this miserable Condition, he was, at length, fet at Liberty, thro’ the Companion of his Creditors, on his Promise, That, if ever able, he would pay. He then came to London, almost naked and famished; he entreated some small Succour from those who poflefied what he ought to have been Master of, but was refused it with opprobrious Language, well knowing it was not in his Power to compel them to do him Justice. Having been well educated, he, in time, found Means to write for Lawyers, and thereby sustained a Life full of Hardships, but such ill Fate still attended him, that whatever he got, he was always defrauded of. He setup a little School, and taught Boys to read, write, and understand the Grammar, by which he might have lived tolerably handsome, had he not been compelled to leave it, on a Bastard Child being laid to him: In fine, he was no sooner fettled In any Business he took in Hand, but, by some 
Accident 
C 7i ] 
Accident or other, lie was obliged to quit it, Twenty Years had palled over with him in this Manner, (till struggling against the Stream, always labouring, but always disappointed, and evermore miserable, and in Debt: When I firfh happened into his Acquaintance, he seemed pleased with me, and, after relating to me the various Misfortunes he had gone thro’, told me al solis Dream, as I have before recited it. On which I told him, Thai, without being guilty of Flattery, I could not promise he would ever see a, good Day in this World; for the Scales hanging over his Head, plainly betokened his Fate was that Moment in the Balance \ that he had done what merited the severest Punishment, and the Sword of Justice, which he saw behind him, was unsheathed to execute it: Fhofe Circles, with their Darts pointed to him, as far as he could see in the Element, were the Tears he Should number in Life, which Should all come armed with Calamities and heart diftraiding Grief. 
He affined me, That nothing was more certain than the Interpretation I had given; that he had already proved the Truth of it : and expelled, indeed, no End of his Vexations till Death. 
I have not seen him some Years, but, if he be living, I dare answer, he is Hill in the same Condition as when he made this Complaint. 
I COULD 
/ 
176 i 
I could bring many Examples to prove that Dreams are not merely the Effect of a disturbed Imagination, but real Warnings or Excitements, sometimes of a good, sometimes of a bad Angel; but these will be sufficient to an underffanding Reader, 
These I have named may very juftfy be called ojncnsy and are, indeed, the only ones that can be depended on : Not but I have some little Faith in the Howling of a Dog, when it does not proceed from Hunger, Blows or Confinement. As odd and unaccountable ait may seem, those Animals scent Death, even before it seizes a Person. An intimate Friend of mnie, for some Days before he was taken with his last Sickness, could never sit down in the Park, or in a Field, without having a Dog throw up the Earth, and make a Hole close by him, in the Form of a Grave. A strange Dog was heard to howl very terribly, without any visible Cause, for several Nights together, proceeding that in which a Neighbour of mine departed this Life: Nor is the Croaking of a Raven, or the Chirping of a Cricket, to be wholly disregarded, as little as they are consonant to Reason, though, as I said before, I would not have anybody look on them as infallible Prognofticks, 
C H A ip, 
CHAP. VII 
On Predestination; 
np§jj H E R E are two Things to which 'mm we may depend on, we are preordained before we ever see Light, ■msa which is the Time and Manner of our Death, and Marriage, if fated ever to enter into that State : The First it is certain that we mnft all come to, but the Latter many People avoid. As to other Incidents, they are greatly left to our own Choice *, and nothing can be more absurd, than for People, after having drawn on themselves, by their own Imprudence, feme very great Misfortune, cry, ’tzvas their Fate, and they could not withfiand it. It seems to me, that those Persons, be they of what Religion they will, who support the Doctrine of Predestination in all Events, are no better than Blasphemers of the Divine Goodness; Is it agreeable to Infinite Justice and Mercy to pre ordain* which is only another Word for compelling a per fon to Vices, for which he merits eternal punishments?? what is Reason, the diitinguifhing Power, given us, but to pursue Good, and fly from Evil? If, in spite of that Knowledge, we 
are 
[ 1 
are obliged to make Choice of that which is abhorred by Heaven, and muff bring Diffraction on ourselves?? know, very well, that what St .Paul says, in the viith, viiith, and ixth Chapters of his Epistle to the Romans, is the Groundwork on which the Afferters of Predeftifiation have built their Scheme, but they seem, methinks, to forget, that St. Paul, who was a very learned Man, did not write to every Capacity; and as they, with so much Earnestness, quote those particular Verses, which they imagine favour the Tenets they think fit to hold, they ought not to leave neglected this Sentence of the same Author, Shall we make God the Author of 'Evil then? No, God forbid. Nothing can be more plain, than that he is so, ifhe lays us under an absolute Necessity of Sinning : but to leave these Things to the Divines, it is equally as unhappy to be under the Direction of a Supreme Power, who creates us for no other Purpose than to be wretched : I am certain, therefore, it is much more consonant to Religion, and the Idea we have of God, to acknowledge the Calamities we sustain, wholly owing to ourselves, either by a too violent Pursuit in the Gratification of out Pafiions, or our Inadvertency, and Carelessness in the Pursuit of our Advantage : And, I would fain have any one of those Millions, who daily exclaim on their ill Fortune, seriously examine their own Conduct, and then give their impartial Judgement; I dare answer, that there is none but will confess, they might have avoided their 
Misfortunes, 
t 79 3 
Misfortunes, if they had considered as well before, as afterwards. 
As to the Period of Time we are to stay in this World, as I said before, it certainly is fixed, nor can all our Endeavours retard it, even for a Moment : And, as to that of Marriage, I am much of the same Mind; because I have known Men who have lived Bachelors till their Decline, and, at last, contrary to the Opinion of all the World, and even of themselves, havf married. you’ll say, perhaps, It was because they never before met with a Woman whom they could like, or, was an agreeable Match : No, I have been acquainted with Persons who have loved, been beloved, nothing wanting but the Ceremony, yet have broke off by Accidents the mould unaccountable in the World, and without any Falsehood an either Side, yet have both Parties, afterwards, married others on the sudden;; where, oftentimes, there has been as little Prospect of Felicity, as there was of a great deal, had they been united in Youth to those where Affection and Merit at first engaged them, 
These, therefore, I am positive, have their certain Times allotted, and it is not in our Power, either to anticipate, or delay them, a Moment j but, as for other Events, they depend entirely on ourselves, and according as Reason is strong or weak in us, we act either for our good or ill Sort a ie. How happens it then, may some allege, 
I 80 3 
ledge, that wri frequently see the best concerted Schemes fail of their Design, while the Measures taken by others, succeed, even beyond Expectation? To which I answer, That the same Measures, ptofecuted in the same Manner, and at the same Time, would certainly produce the same Effect with one Mari as with another : But here it is that the Planets may justly be said to have a great Share in the Incidents of humane Life : One Man shall happen to undertake his Enterprise in an Hour when the benificent Planets fired their Influence *, another shall go about it when the Malignant ones are in Force: and to this, in great Measure, we may impute the Difference of their Siiccefs: For the Benefit of my Readers, I will, therefore, give them a Detail of the lucky and unlucky Hours. 
The Prosperous are thole under the Direction of. 
The Sun Jupiter X 
Venus $, 
Mercury 5 5 
The Malevolent ones are those under, 
Saturn h, 
Mars 6. 
In fdme Affairs the Hour of the Moon may be Favourable, burr it is only when your Business is with People of a low Rank j she otherwise 
promises 
C Si ] 
pro miles you little, but deceitful 1 lopes: You ought, however, to be extremely careful in observing her Degrees, for so great is her Influence, that tho’ you should attempt anything under the most fortunate Aspect, her Decline will blast it all. But having said thus much, it is in every one’s Power to choose a lucky Hour, only by regarding heedfully parkers Ephemms. 
Those invisible Warnings which we receive from our good Angel, as mentioned in the foregoing Chapter, concerning Omens, ought also to be observed with the utmost Care. It is, but with great Pains and Labour, We Mortals find out the Method of choosing a propitious Moment; but these Spirits, who, at once, comprehend whatever is done in the World, and see into the most hidden Causes, fail not to give Notice to the Souls committed to their Charge when it is we ought, or ought not, to venture on any great Enterprise. 
I t is very much to this, many People, whole good Fortune amazes us, are indebted, for not being as Unhappy as they are Prosperous. 
There are also other superior Means by which feme have raised to themselves great Fortunes, the Chief of which is Magic, vulgarly called the Black Art; which, indeed, is no other than the Knowledge of certain Spells, by which you may attain a kind of Authority over one of O the 
t 82 3 
the invisible World, and compel a Spirit so rais’d, to reveal whatever you are desirous of knowing : Nor is this to be done by Witchcraft, or making a Contract with the Devil, as some are so silly to imagine, but by the understanding some Cabaliftical Words, Characters, and Figures, made tjfe of in a proper Time and Place : The next are thole ‘talifmans of which I have already treated. The wearing of a Loadstone may very well come in for a third Place in the my ftic Roll of secret Recipes, to procure Ease for all the Calamities to which Life is incident. But, as the Virtues of this admirable Stone deserve a particular Description, I shall treat of it hereafter, in a Chapter by itself, and return to my first Design in this. 
Predestination, therefore, whatever some great Men may have said in the Defence of it, was, at first, no more than an Invention found out to lay the Blame of our own ill Conduct on the Compulsion of an inevitable Fate : Believe me, who, tho’ I pretend not to any Share of Learning, have, from my Childhood, not only been blessed with a perfect Knowledge of Nature, but likewise of Things and Beings supernatural, that we cannot put a more gross Deception on ourselves, than to listen to the Doctrine of it. 
Besides, it seems to me not only a false, but an impolitic Supposition also j it is, in the first 
Placer 
83 ] 
Place, an Enemy to Religion; for, if regarded in Matters of Salvation, what Occasion have we to offer up Sacrifice and Prayer? What Need of good Works, or what Danger of ill Ones, if Predestination cuts off all Reward for the one, or Punishment for the other? How can the Maintainers of this Tenet answer their manifest Contradiction of the Text, Every Man Shall be judged according to his Works, if,, before we are capable of any Works, we are doomed to everlasting Happiness, or Misery?? it not make the best Christian very faint and languid in his Devotions, when he confiders that he stands no better a Chance to be an Inheritor of the Kins 
O 
dom of Heaven, than the moult Profligate of his Neighbours? And, muff it not make the Libertine more bold in Wickedness, to be allured, his Sins will not add to his Damnation? 
Then, if considered, in Regard of our being happy in this Life, nothing can be more opposite: : is the utter Destruction of all the Social Virtues •, to what End do we aim at Learning, endeavour to be well-bred, accomplished, and good natur’d, but to be agreeable to those we are to pafs our Time with? If predefined to the Fate of being beloved, admired, applauded, we may be as churlish as we please, and five ourselves a vast Expense of Pains and Money too. There would be none of that laudable Emulation which excites to vie with our Neighbours in all that is praiseworthy: : Man would give him g 2 self 
84 3 
fdf the Trouble of correcting the Faults in his Nature, or endeavour to improve the Beauties of it, but all would be wild and savage, and we should differ from the Brute creation in nothing but in Form. 
But, as it is needless to urge anything against so pernicious a Doctrine to those who condemn it, soit will be altogether as vain to preach to .those who have their own Reasons to support it; but if I may be allowed to speak my Mind, I believe few do it who have any Regard to any tping, either here or hereafter. 
CHAP. VIII 
On the Pow Sympathy. 
O’ I know this is a Subject which as been already frequently treated n by Fens infinitely more capable f doing Justice to it, than mine can pretend to, yet, because these Tracts are, moil of them, too voluminous, as well as too abstruse for the Perusal of the Generality of my fair Readers, I shall oblige them with some Hints, which, perhaps, may be of Service to them. 
The 
[ 8y ] 
The Word Sympathy means no other than a certain Bent, or inclining of one Thing to a nother; and that there is such an Inclination, Nature declares visible in all her Works, as well inanimate as animate: Nothing can be more wonderful than that Sympathy of the Palm Trees which, being planted at some Distance from each other, shoot forth their Branches, all on one Side, till they meet, and mingle : It has, also, been observed of these Trees, that if one be cut down, the other bows its Head, and soon withers away. 
T h e Steel and Loadstone are known and plain Truths of Sympathy •, and though there are People who strenuously deny some of the Effects imputed to it, yet all agree to acknowledge this. 
The Sympathy between the different Sexes of animated Beings, even in the Brute Creation, may, every Day, be seen long before the lead; Desire of Copulation warms the Blood : A Male and Female Kitten will agree together much better than two of the same Kind j young Pigeons will do the same, and, in fine, everything that has Life finds a Tendency in itself;; is no other Way to be accounted for, than by the Power of Sympathy. 
G 3 The 
[ 86 j 
These Things, therefore, being past Diftpute* 
I shall leave them, and proceed to others which have furnished the learned World with so much Matter for Argument. 
The Sympathetic Powder, so much talked of for the wondrous Cures it has performed, by being applied to. the Weapon which gave the Wound, has occasioned great Debates, but, I perceive, the mould learned of our phylicians have given their Opinion in Favour of it, and that, in general, it is more believed than practised. 
Wh V therefore, should it seem soft range, that the wearing certain Amulets, or Charms, should excite the Passion of Love in a Person whose Name is thereon written, or engraved? Nothing is more true, than that this is Fact j but, because all the Arguments in the World fill short of Proof, I will demonstrate it in a little Fliftory which, not only myself, but all my Family, can aver. 
A young Woman, of a good Family, and well educated, but without any Fortune, or the Hope of any, being maintained by her Godmother, the All of whose Substance consisted in Annuities, and, consequently, would have nothing to bequeath at her Decease, happened to tall, accidentally, in Company with a Gentleman 
of 
E 87 1 
of' a most accomplished Person, and great estate: : Merits had an Effect on her, common in a youthful Heart, and now she began to lament that Poverty which could not buffer her to entertain any Expectation of being as agreeable in his Eyes, as he had been in hers. She frequently law him at the House of an Acquaintance, where they both visited, and every Time became more enamoured, and more melanchohy, than before. An old Woman, with whom she was very intimate, observed a Change in her Countenance and Behaviour, and never left off importuning her, till she was Miss refs of the Secret; which, as soon as she was, she persuaded her to divulge, and that she would go with her to a Person, whose Skill in Affairs of that Nature, she assured her, she had formerly experienced, bidding her be of good Eleart; for, if the Gentleman were not already married, she would warrant this Philosopher would contrive it so, that she should be his Bride. People in Love are ready enough to flatter themselves with the least Shadow that seems to promise them Success, and half her Griefs were difflpated before she came to the House of the Person who was to prescribe the Means of her Cure. 
Having related her Cafe, and given the accustomed Fee, which, I think, she told me was Two Guineas, with, a promifary Note of Fifty Pounds when she should be the Wife of fucha Gentleman; he made her. be let Blood before him, in the Foot, and saving, carefully, the Q 4 Blood, 
i §8 ] 
Blood, bid her come to him on the third Day \ it is not to be boubted but she vas punctual, and he then delivered to her a small Cake, but made extremely rich with Sweatmeats in one Part of it, on which he made a Mark *, he told her, ‘there was fornething that should render the Person that Should eat it, incapable of being easy out of her Company : As for the rest, he laid, Jhe might give it to whom she pleajed, for there was nothing in it, either of Good or Harm : But several Times repeated his Charge, That Jhe would take Care nobody Should tajle of the other, bnt the Gentleman she defined to engage. 
When (lie gave me this Account, she told me, hie was in the utmost Perplexity to get this Injunction fulfilled, having gone several Times to the House of her Acquaintance, without finding the Gentleman, but she hill kept the Cake in het Pocket, wrapped in a Piece of clean Paper, and, at last, being so lucky to meet him, took it out, and calling for a Knife, told them, she would let them tafle a Rarity; having divided it into small Slices, she took Care to serve cvery body before him, that he might not chule the wrong Piece; in fine, hie had the Satisfaction to see him swallow it all, and soon after took her Leave, having been ordered by the Sage foto do, and went to him for further Advice how to proceed : On which, he gave her fornething sewed up in green Silk, which he bid her wear con tinually in her Bolbm, next her Flesh, 
and 
[ 89 1 
and take the utmost Care not to lose it, or suffer it to be opened, either by herself, or any other Person. This, he a Allred her, would not only o blige the Man desired to marry her, but also to be the moult fond Husband in the World, as long as he lived. 
But, not to spin out my Narration, Hie soon found the Effects of what had been done •, the Gentleman became infinitely in Love with her, courted, and in a few Weeks, was married to her, nor did Enjoyment, in the leaf!:, damp the Fervour of his Passion;; four Years it seemed rather, every Day, to increase;; that he studied nothing but how to prove his Affection; he did nothing without consulting her; her Will was his Law in everything *, all for whom she had a Kindness, were sure of his esteem;; whoever flic disliked, were looked upon as his Enemies. Never was a happier Woman, while fne obeyed the Directions abovementioned;; being one Day alone, and contemplating the good Fortune to which she was arrived, and the Means of it, the Curiosity of her Sex tempted her to peep into the green Silk Bag, so that unripping one Corner of it j file law a small Quantity of a whitish Substance, but more like Smoke than Powder, issue from it? and fly away, beyond all poliibility of catching it again; she was a little frighted to find any of it gone, but comforted herself with the Belief, that she was too well established in her hufband’s 
Af[ 
[ 3 
Affections, to lose it, after so long a Time, and that, if it should be so, she could go again to the Phitofopher, to recruit her Bag. 
But ladly did she find herself deceived, when her Husband coming Home, accosted her not as he was accustomed to do, with open Arms, and all the fond Expressions that the violent Passion could suggest, but with a sullen and dejected Air, that, instead of flying to her Bosom, and warming it with a thousand Sighs of ten dernefs, he returned not the Salute she gave him, but flung from her, as from a Creature he either hated, or despised, and whose Touch was loathsome. 
Shk now perceived the Misfortune she had brought upon herself, but endeavoured to bring him into Humour, and entreated he would let her know what she had done to offend him? to which he refused making any Answer, for a long Time, but being pressed by her Importunities he, at last, told her, That he had been considering the Injury he had done his Family, by marrying a Woman without a Fortune, and, that if it was to do again, he would as soon be damnedthat he wondered what he had seen in her to bewitch him, for, that there were a thousand finer Women, with good Portions, he might have had his Choice, and that he could not forgive himself nor Should ever be easy ■more. These, and many more Speeches of the like rude and unkind Nature, were her Enter, 
tain 
f 9* 3 
tainment all that Night; but, thinking to retrieve all yet, she arose early in the Morning, and went in Search of him who had given her the Charm, and, to her great Mortification, was told, he had been dead a Month. She now looked on her Misery as irremediable, and grew as disconsolate as her Husband ill natured. They lived in the moil; discontented Manner imaginable, but her Condition was infinitely the word, because, now resuming the Care of his own Purse, he found Means to indulge himself Abroad, with those Pleasures he could no longer find at Home j while she, the moil abandoned, and moult wretched Creature in the World, had no more Allowance from him, than was just Efficient to sustain Nature. 
In this unhappy Situation she had Recourse to me, having heard I had performed some very exr traordinary Things that Way; she related to me the whole History of the Affair, from the Beginning to the End, concluding with telling me, That though her hufband’s Parsimony at prefen ^ gave her not the Power of making me any Present yet, if I could be able, once more, to recover his Affection for her, she Should then have enough to give. But I would not deceive her : I told her, it was not in Nature, or in Art, to recall a Passion which owed its Original to Compulsion, *, confefs’d, that a Desire which arose by Nature, if grown cool, might be revigorated by Art, but as his to her, had been only the Effects of An, and was a 
Force 
L 92 ] 
Force on his Faculties, all second Endeavours would be ineffectual to bring it back. 
She found my Words but too true, and tho’, as I afterwards heard, die had Recourse to others, who dealt with less Sincerity than I had done, yet did all the Expectations they had raised in her, prove abortive, and she lived and died a miserable, and, by all who heard what she had done,, as, at last, she was foolish enough to reveal it, a most unpitied and despised Woman. 
The French and Italians, have many Secrets to excite Love, or rather Desire; for, I think, a paffion which owes not its Being to Nature, un a lifted by Art of any Kind, cannot, justly, be termed Love; but I would have all, to whom I wish well, be careful how they make Use of any such Prescriptions, left, ignorant of what they do, they prejudice the Person they aim to engage. I knew a Woman, who being desirous a certain Gentleman of my Acquaintance should make his Addresses to her? applied to one of tliele Dealers in the Trade of forcing Inclination, ■who ordered her to put a Paper of Powder, which he gave her, into some kind of Liquor that the Gentleman should drink: Accordingly fire put it into Punch, of which, when he had drank plentifully, he found himself seized with Desires more violent than he had ever before experienced, he was even mad; and, tho’ the least Thought of Love had never entered into 
his 
C 95 1 
his Head for this Woman, yet was he now so overborne with a wild Inclination for the Enjoyment of her, th at being alone with her, it was as much as she could do, to hinder him from committing a Rape j but, as Marriage was the Thing she aimed at, sloe proposed it to him, telling him, That since he had so great a Pafjion for her, she was ready to consent on lawful Terms : But this failing, not but that he would have done anything in those diffracted Moments, to have possessed her; but it being too late in the Night to procure a Clergyman, she was obliged to call the People of the House to her Assistance, and, by their Means, put him into a Chair, and sent him Blome : Seeing the Powder had wrought this Effect, she doubted not, in the leaf, but he would be at her Lodgings early in the Morning, and accomplish what she intended by giving him this Dose, •, fie was infinitely mistaken, the Powder, which had so much inflamed him, being no other than Cantharides, threw out its Venom in a violent Rash, all over his Body, and left his Heart cool as before he had taken it 5 but remembering the Vehemence of his Desires the Night before, it appeared extremely strange to him, and relating the whole Affair, both to myself, and an eminent Physician, I presently gave my Opinion, that something had been given him to cause those extraordinary Emotions, on which, the Doctor said, it was Cantharides. The Gentleman was so much enraged to find he had been practised on in such a Manner, that he resolved, 

C 94 .1 
so]ved, whatever it cost him, to know the Truth, and, in fine, partly by Persuasions, and partly by Bribes, he discovered where she had been that Day; which he had no sooner done, than he threatened the old Fellow who had given her the Powder in so terrible a Manner, that he fell on his Knees, and related the whole Affair, on Promise of Forgiveness. 
The Sequel of this Business was, that the Gentleman who had before a good Regard, as far as Friendship, for that Woman, now became her implacable Enemy, and could not think on her, without the utmost Loathing and detefta tion. 
These Things are both dangerous and pernicious, and, in my Opinion, will not be made Use on, but by People abandoned in their Principles and Characters *, but as to the wearing Sigils, or Amulets, which are only to create a general good Will and Esteem, I see no Reason, either in Religion or Morality, to disapprove them. 
Those People who moult despise the Use of them, cannot, without being very unjust, allege, that there is any Hurt in having them about you, either to yourself, or any other person: : Characters of the one being made on consecrated Parchment, and the Composition of the other, such Things as are frequently taken 
inc 
9$ 3 
inwardly to comfort and corroborate the Vital Faculties, such as Corral, Ambergrease, V. and not the least Mixture of anything that is diabolical, either in the Ingredients, or Words tho’ wrote in Figures unintelligible to all but those of the Cabal. 
But in spite of all that has, or.can be said to the contrary, I positively maintain, from a long Experience, both in myself, and those that have given them, that they not only attract the Goodwill of others, but excite also in the Person who wears them, a Propensity to do those Actions which merit Praise and Love. 
I n fine, they are an inferior Sort of Talismans, working, in a meaner Degree, the ft me Effects; and tho’ they cannot be said to change Fate, rendering one who is very wretched, happy in an Instant, yet they serve to soften the Severity of it *, and tho’ a Person may be miserable, with one of them about him, yet would he be much more so, should he leave them off, as has been tried by some, into whose Hands, it is possible, this Book may fall, and have, afterwards, con fefied to me how dearly they have repented the Experiment. 
I t is certain, i have known People, who, on sir ft putting them on, have fancied to themselves Things which I never promised, nor are in the Power of Art to perform; tho’ working in 
a Gari 
96 1 
a Garret, or a Cellar, they have expected no less than keeping a Coach and Six, forgetting, thdt no Person is reasonably to depend on more than being fortunate in the Business to which he has been allotted, either by the Choice of his Parents, or his own Inclination; and, I think, if these Sigils, ox Amulets, are of Force to make him folie ought to be very well content. 
Yet, so much does Ambition swell the meanest Soul, that not one but would be glad to fill the Post of the first Minister of State; nay, and imagine themselves fit for it too : I have known a Cobbler, in his Stall, pretend to regulate the whole Affairs of Europe, and give Laws to all the Monarehs in the World. 
Hence it follows, that, not only Sigils, and Amulets, but even Tallymans, sometimes, fail of their Effect; for, not being able to work Miracles, the real good Fortune they bring, is slighted, and they are plucked out, and, perhaps, thrown away, before they have fulfilled half, what a little more, even, sometimes, the smallest Point of Time, would have brought to Perfection. 
But, as it is only the Ignorant that can be guilty of such Follies, I leave them to the Correction of their own Impatience and Stupidity, which will not fail doing it in a severer Manner than I wish. Those of the wiser Sort, who either 
C 97 1 
there have bought of me, or shall hereafter buy of my Wife, any of these prevailing Charms, whether Talisman, Sigil, or Amulet, will, I doubt not, be satisfied with the Purchase, and reap all the Benefits which can be expected from it. 
CHAP. IX 
On the Difference between Natural and Diabolical Magic. 
A VIN G in some former Chapters had Occasion to mention this Art in its two Branches, I think it highly necessary to explain what it is I mean by this Distinction, 
I know the Vulgar are apt to look on everything which they cannot comprehend, as brought about by the Assistance of the Devil, and this they call the Black art, but is known, among the learned World, by the Name of Necromancy: How far this Study, or the Practice of it, is, or is not, con demnable, I will not pretend to determine, all that I shall concern myself about it, shall be, to fet forth how vastly distant it is from Magic Simple, and Natural: The one teaches how to raise Infernal Spirits by the Help of certain Words and H Spells 
198 ] 
Spells, the other, only how to make a proper Use of those Things which are common to us, and for which we need ransack no other World than this we are born and live in } and, that the Knowledge of this is sofar from being criminal, that it is not only laudable, but highly necessary also, for all such as take upon them to give in ftructions for the Conduct of others, in the Affairs of Life : Neither ought Physicians, or Surgeons, to be ignorant of it, as has been already proved in the foregoing Discourse on the Power of Sympathy. 
Great is the Power of certain Herbs, if gathered under the Influence of proper Planets, and greater yet is that of Minerals, provided the Aspect for digging, and applying them, be rightly understood: : Business has the Devil or his Agents with this? Is it a Fault to know the Virtues of Things created for our Use;; can that Science be guilty, which informs us when, and in what Manner, to prepare them so as to be beneficial to Mankind. 
It cannot, indeed, be denied, but that there are Plants and Minerals which may be made Use of to the Prejudice of our Neighbours, and that the same Science teaches the Means of both a good and an evil Application; but what of that? must we, because we know how to do a Mischief, be guilty of it? Mull we needs try Practises upon our Fellow-creatures? No certainly : 
[ 99 1 
tainly: And we might as well forbid a Student in Phyfiek to confider the Effects of Poison, for fear, knowing how to give it, he should administer it instead of a wholesome Recipe. Can anything be more absurd than this Way of arguing? Yet some, who are accounted great Men make Use of it. 
Chemistry, if truly understood, comes the neared: to Natural Magic of any Science in the World *, yet the Study of it is sofar from being blameable, that those who have attained to any Degree of Perfection therein, have always been looked on as extraordinary Persons: What can be more wonderful, than the Power it gives to transmute Metals, and change the very Nature of Things, rendering the mod; hard and rocky Substances soft and maleable, and converting the spongy into indiflfoluble? 
Astronomy also bears a Part with Chytniftry, in an Affinity with Natural Magic, and whoever is perfectly versed in those two Sciences, wants but a very little of comprehending the whole Mystery of the other: Neither of them alone, indeed, can do any great Matter towards it, but when both are joined, especially if assisted by that Part of the Mathematics which teaches Number and Proportion, that Knowledge may, effect mod: of those Wonders which are commonly attributed to Magica 
Hz N ai 
ioo 1 
Natural Magic, therefore, is, in reality, no more than the Perfection of Philosophy, which, certainly, no Man in his right Wits, but would be proud to have the Capacity of attaining. 
I t is certain, that the little Skill I have in this Science, has drawn Aspersions on me of different Kinds; the Ignorant perceiving what was in my Power to bring about, have cried out, I dealed with the Devil; and the more learned Have said, I was an Impostor: : former not being able to comprehend how the Effects I wrought Could proceed from Causes merely Natural; and the latter, sensible of the Difficulties which attend an Inquisition into those occult Studies, could not believe, a Perlbn who never was blessed with the Use of Speech, or Hearing, and, therefore, denied many Advantages, which muff necessarily arise from those two Senses, ffiould acquire an Understanding in such dark and abstruse Mysteries, which very few of the i$oft deeply learned could fathom, 
Thus have I suffered on the one Hand, for being suspected to know too much, and, on the other, as a Man who pretended to know more than he did; but, as I take Heaven to witness, that I never, in my whole Life, had Recourse to diabolic Means, foi, also, never deceived those who consulted me, by endeavouring to pals, on them for a greater Man than I am. 
I SHALL 
C idi 1 
I shall not be so vain, td say, the Secrets I aril Mailer of, have been the Acquisition of my own Labour; no, I have neither Learning, nor Reading enough, by the thousandth Part, for it, but I have been favoured with them by Persons who have spent the greatest Part of their Lives in this Study. I never can sufficiently make known the Obligations I have to a Hebrew Rabbi, before mentioned, on the Account of the !Tollmans; yet am I till infinitely more indebted to a Chinese, who, having gone through all the Learning his native Country could afford, ranged three Parts of the Globe in Search of more, and about some nine Years since, passed thro’ this Island in his Tour. 
Another very venerable Man, from whom I learned many curious Things, was an Afjyrian^ of the Grecian Church: He loved me with a kind of Paternal Affection, and told me, If I would accompany him to his Country, he would make me be looked upon, among them, as a Person sent from Heaven to do Good. The Ingratitude I have since met with, has made me frequently, when I have reflected on it, regret that I followed not his Advice; but, as I am satisfied it is the Will of the supreme Disposer of all Things, I endure it, resigned, and, as much as the Passions of frail, ^iumane Nature will permit, contented also, 
H 3 But 
L 101 1 
But, say those who are Enemies to Magic of all Kinds, It teaches the Means of conversing with Spirits, and that is unlawful and unwarrantable among Chrijiians. Before an Answer be made to such an Objection, they ought to bring some Proof from Holy Writ why it is unwarrantable, which, I believe, they would be greatly at a Loss to do. But, however, for the Satisfaction of my Readers, I will confess all they can allege as to this Matter of Fact *, ’tis true, there are Means, and very innocent ones too, of rendering visible some Beings which none but those of the Cabal have any Notion of; but, if these Beings are sofar from being ill, that they are infinitely purer than the mod: elevated Sort, while cased in Flefti, can pretend to be, it cannot be denied, but our Conversation with them will be far from a Disadvantage to us *, and, I think, it must be also owned, that the Knowledge of such a Secret can do us no Harm, though we should refrain making Use of it in this Branch, viz. Holding Intelligence with Aerial Spirits. 
All that I attempt to prove, is, that Natural Magic has nothing in it repugnant to the Laws of God; and, as for Man, it would certainly be the better for the World if there were many who studied it. 
The Vanity of latter Times, makes Men imagine they are wiser, and more learned, 
than 
C io ] 
than their fore fathers, and that every Age adds some new Improvement in the Sciences s whereas, on the contrary, we grow darker and darker, and, like Martha in the New tefta ment, busy ourselves about Trifles, and leave the moil essential Study, which, next to Religion, I still say is natural Magic, wholly neglected and uncultivated. 
CHAP. X 
On App a ri t ions. 
KNOW nothing more feared, and at the same Time, less believed than Apparitions : Those who argue the moult strenuously against them, and affect moll to ridicule all Accounts given of them, are frequently, on finding themselves in the Dark, as much terrified, merely by the Strength of their own Imagination, as the per fons who give the greatest Credit to them. 
A merry Instance of this kind happened about twenty Years ago: Some Gentlemen being drinking at the Bell Tavern in jvejlminjler, the Conversation fell accidentally on Apparitions; as they were of different Opinions, the Dispute H 4 grew 
C 104 1 
grew high; but one among them, being willing to be thought more Courageous than the rest and to testify how little he believed any such Stories, offered to go alone into the Abbey at Twelve o’ Clock at Night, and down into the Royal Vault within King Henry the seventh’s Chapel, which happened then to be open on account of some Person of Quality who was to be buried there the next Day. Those who were of the other Party, laid twenty Guineas he durft not perform his Promise, *, he accepted the Wager, and Mr. West the Verger was sent for, to whom they gave a Crown for his T rouble of opening the Doors. The Hour appointed being arrived, all the Company conducted the bold Adventurer to the churchyard, and one of them asking him, How they Should know he went sofar as he pretended, he made Answer, ‘that he would stick his Penknife into the Earth within the Vaults which, after his Return, they might go into, accompanied by the Verger, with a Light, and find there. Everything being thus agreed, the Gate was opened, and he admitted, the Gentlemen tarrying with Mr. jvejl till he should come out; but he staying considerably longer than was expected, they all (especially those of them who believed Spirits) imagined something had happened to punish his Temerity; on which it was concluded to enter in Search of him. The venerable Look of that ancient Pile, the hollow Murmurs the Wind made through the Arches of the adjacent Cloisters, and the 
Echo 
f to; ] 
Echo which, in the Stilnefs of the Night, re peated every foot ftep, together with the Reflection of the Number of Dead they passed over, gave the whole Company such Ideas, as made the most Courageous amongst them to confess, he would not be there alone, and in the Dark, for a much greater Wager than had been flak’d* At length they arrived at the Vault, where, a soon as they descended the first Stair, they beheld their Companion lying Motionless at the Bottom. On endeavouring to raise him, they perceived he had ftuck his Penknife through the right Skirt of his Coat. It was With great Difficulty they recovered him from his Swoon; and when he was so, could get little from him, till after they re conducted him to the Tavern when being a little refrejfhed, they desired he would tell them what had, happened to occasion the Disorder they found him in: On which he broke into the utmost Exclamations against all those who disbelieved Spirits, andfaid, That he had been guilty of the utmost Prefmption, and that he was now convinced of his Error : But they repeating their former Request, he confefs’d, That the Door was no sooner closed upon him, than he was seized with Apprehenfons which made him repent his Boldness, and more than once prompted him to go back; but the Fear of being laughed at overcame his other Terrors insomuch, that he proceeded tq the Vault) where every ‘thing that was hocking to Nature ensreajed on hin, yet fill the Pride of performing what he had so confidently pretended toy 
remaining[ 
[ 6 ] 
remaining., he went down the Stairs, and when he came to the lafi, fiooped to slick his Penknife in the Earthy thinking it fujflcient for the winning of the Wager that he left it within the Faulty it not being Jpecified in the Agreement, how far he Should go into it: but, said he, as I was in this Action, Ifelt something pluck me by the Coat, which prevented my rising, and with the infant Horror threw me into the Condition you saw. He had no sooner concluded his little Account, than the whole Company let up a loud Laugh, which strangely surprising him, they viewed him the Penknife, which was dill hanging in the Skirt of his Coat, and convinced him, that in the Hurry of Stooping, he had stuck it through, which Detainment, weak as it was, with the Confusion of his Thoughts, had made him imagine something Supernatural. 
Though this Gentleman neither saw, heard, or felt anything in reality, yet the unusual Dread he had on him at this Juncture, may prove that there is an innate Apprehension, even in the bolded Minds, on the Score of Apparitions. The Shadows which frequently the Moon makes with the moving of a Bough, has given the flouted Man more Terror than an Army of Enemies, or a Pistol cock’d at his Bread : If there were no such Things as Spirits, then whence arises those dreadful Ideas? They cannot always be owing to the Prejudice of Education, nor would the bugbear Stories, told us in our Infancy by an old Nurse, have any Effect 
C 107 1 
in Maturity. No, no, that Spirits are sometimes permitted to render themselves visible to humane Sight is certain, as that we have immortal Souls, and whoever disbelieves the one, mull most certainly be dubious of the other. 
I a m far from willing any Fellow-creature should be put to Trials they are unable to bear; yet I cannot forbear being pleased, when I hear a Person so arrogantly presuming, and depending on his Judgement, as in the Cafe above recited, meets with something to humble his self fuffi ciency. 
For my Part, I can impute the Arguments raised againftapparitions to nothing but an Affectation of Particularity, fmce there is no sound Reason to be given for this Opinion to be drawn from Religion, Morality or Nature; but on the contrary, they all concur to allure us there are no such Things, without the Testimony of occular Demonstration. I am fare Holy Writ, both in the Old and New tcjlamenu gives us innumerable Proofs of it i few Histories are without some remarkable Examples of it, and the secret Indications we feel within ourielves, are perpetually confirming it. 
I belie V e there are few real Alheijls in the World, tho’ too many, cut of Orientation of signalising themselves, make so vile a ute of that Share of Understanding allowed : T;; n by 
L 10b 3 
God, as to reason against him °, and I dare say, the Number of thole who disbelieve the Appearance of Spirits, lo far as never to have the least Terror on that Account, would but little exceed the other more pernicious Tribe. 
Some there are who argue against this Truth, merely because they would not be thought to have any Tincture about them of what they Imbibed in their Childhood; but, methinks, this is strangely ridiculous } are not the first Rudiments of all those Tenets we are most justly proud of, given us in our Childhood? We should, according to that Way of Reasoning, not begin to learn anything till we are arrived at Maturity; and if the believing Spirits be a Notion which ought to be exploded, ’tis certainly an infinite Error to mention them at all in our Youth. The reading of Glamnlle, Burton, Clarendon, and, indeed, the Works of almost all the Great Men that ever wrote, must be entirely forbid, and a new Set of Books be found out to make the Furniture of our Libraries agreeable to the modern Way of Thinking. 
I know the main Objections against the vifl bility of Spirits are these: : The impoftibi lity there is in defining of what Nature they are. And Secondly, That supposing them to be Souls of the Deceased, How), says the Objetcor, is it consonant to Religion, that the Blefjed Shall forsake Heaven, where all Fears are wiped from the 
L 109 3 
Eyes, to concern themjelves with the Affairs below? Or, if doomed to Misery, Shall their Tortures be intermitted, they have Liberty to return to the 
Place where they have committed their Crimes? But yet even this Argument, formidable as it may seem, methinks, ’tis easy to confute, without denying one Word concerning the unceasing Joys which the Virtuous enjoy, or the Pains of the Vicious, after their Departure from this Life. 
A s to the First, 1 grant it impossible for humane Understanding to comprehend of what Nature they are, but we are told, that there are infinite Degrees and Orders of Angels; may it riot then be more than probable, as may be proved by Lot, and several qf the Patriarchs, that the Business of some of them may be to visit this lower World, for Reasons only known to the Supreme Director; And as for those dreadful Apparitions, which we cannot imagine to be any that is Good, does it not bear some Likelihood of Truth, that the fallen Angels, who, till the Day of final Judgement, are not locked up in their Adamantine Caverns, may be permitted to wander here, and sometimes render themselves visible for the Punishment or Admonition of those to whom they shall appear; but as the Certainty of this is what the moult Learned cannot arrive at, what serves for an Objection, may as justly be made Use of in Defence. 
L lio 1 
Nor does die Supposition, that they are really the Souls of the Deceased, include anything of Profane or Irreligious in it. Even those Spirits, for anything we know, may be allotted to the Business abovementioned, since all agree that Happiness or Misery is not completed till the last Day, ’tis enough if either to know it will be so, which Knowledge all Souls, doubtless, are possessed of, immediately after leaving the Body, and, therefore, they may, with great Probability, be commissioned to bring about Matters here, which require an extraordinary Messenger. 
I am not for setting this down as a Thing to be depended on, ’tis what none can be allured of while in a State of Mortality : But I hope I may be allowed to say there is nothing in such an Opinion absurd, nor contrary to the Notions we ought to have of Things beyond our com prehenfion. 
That Spirits have the Power of making themselves visible, I am certain, and, that they are either commissioned, or permitted to be so by the mould High, none, who acknowledges a Deity will deny : It is not therefore our Business to inquire into their Nature, nor to dispute their Being, because we cannot comprehend it. Man, while in Fleffi, is, doubtless, the moll Inferior of rational Creation, and he ought to believe 
humbly 
C III 1 
humbly what is revealed to him, and not presumptuously dive into, much less pretend to know, Secrets to which he can never arrive, till he has shot the Gulf of Death. 
And, lure, nothing more teflifies the Wisdom of the Divine Being, than continuing us in this Uncertainty! Were we to be informed, directly, what either the Joys of Heaven, or the Pains of Hell were, it would naturally destroy great Part of our Dependance on him : It is by Faith we are to be saved, and after Conviction, where is there need of Faith? Besides, should the Spirit of a vicious Person, who, after being guilty of innumerable tranfgreftions, at last find Mercy, thro’ Repentance, inform us he were in a State of Happiness, might it not encourage the Sinner to go on in his Offences? Or, vere a Person, seemingly Virtuous, tho’, perhaps, guilty of some secret, great and unrepented Crime, appear to us in all the Horrors of Damnation, would it not stagger the Hope of the most Pious? It is, therefore, highly necessary those Things should be concealed from u unless we could, also, see into the Reasons of the almighty’s Decree, to keep us from the two dangerous Extremes of Presumption and Despair. 
But, to return to my Purpose: : many private Murders have been revealed by the Apparition of the murdered Person?? remember, 
Beaumont makes Mention of a Man, who being 
appre 
r m ] 
apprehended on Suspicion, was about being cleared, when the Spirit, or Ghost, of the Deceased appeared, circled in Fire, before the Eyes of the Prisoner, knd terrified him into an immediate Confession of the Fact, with all its circumftan ces, of which, before, there was not the Jeaft Proof. I have, aifo, read in another Author, tho’ his Name has now slipped my Memory, of a Woman, who being left a Widow, with one. Son of about two Years old, fcon after married a Kinsman cf her late hufband’s, and the next Heir to the Estate, (which was a very large one) in Cafe he had died without Issue;; not long surviving these second Nuptials, the Widower took it in his Head to become Master of the estate, *, which End, he sent the Child into a remote Country, and gave out, he was dead: Everything was contrived in fp artful a Manner, that no body suspected the Deceit, and he enjoyed the Estate, by which he obtained a Lady of a considerable Fortune, with whom he was much enamoured, for his Wife : In a few Years he had several fine Children by her, and nothing seemed wanting to complete his Happiness, yet did he grow so excessively melancholy, that e very body was surprised at his Behaviour j lie even hated the Sight of his Wife, his Children, and everything which it might be expected he should love. Ft is not to be doubted but that he was very much entreated to reveal the Cause of this so sudden Change in his Behaviour, yet nothing would prevail on him, till his Distemper 
increasing 
r 113 3 
encreafmg in such Sort, as made everybody believe he could not long flirvive under it; at last? in a more than ordinary Confufioh, he called for his Wife and Family about him, haying, before, sent for two Clergymen of his Acquaintance, and in. the Presence of them all, declared the Injury he had done his first wife’s Child, adding, That for a Twelvemonth foe had continued to appear to him, and that Day had threatened him in a mojl terrible Manner, if he persisted in his injustice. He then told them where he had disposed of the Child, who was then about twelve Fears of Age, with a poor Woman in Wales, whom he allowed no more than five Pounds a Tear for the maintaining him *, confeltmg also, That his Intent was to have put him out to fonie mean Trade, and never to have let him known his Name, or of what Family defended. everybody, but his Wife, applauded his Repentance; but Ihe took the Imposition he had put on her, so ill, that ihe protested never to live with him more, and that Moment left his House: : young Heirs however, was immediately sent for to London, and Care taken of his Education, b'efiting his Birth and Fortune. 
What became of the Gentleman, I do not remember, nor is it to my Purpose, which is only to prove, that Heaven sometimes makes Ufe‘ of supernatural Means to bring about extraordinary Events; and, as little as some People affect to believe this Truth, let them beware I' How 
£ i r 4 ^ 
how they defraud the Innocent, or any way forfeit their Prom he to the Dead, lest they should be convinced, to their Cost, that the Things I have related are not itnpofiible. 
But it would be the utmost Presumption in me, to expect any Arguments from my unlearned Pen, should prevail on Persons deaf to those elaborate and elegant ones, which have wrote so many large Volumes in the Defence of giving Credit to Apparitions : Nay, when the very Bible, which abounds in Examples of them, is not looked on as a sufficient Authority in this Point. Nothing can convince those who take a Pride in being obstinate, but occular demonstration;; that, therefore, I leave them, and if such Conviction ever happens, let them thank themselves, if they suffer worse by it than the more Timid, who are, at present, so much the Subject of their Ridicule, 
I n Defiance of all may be said in Opposition, 1 do aver, that there are Apparitions; some of the most glorious, some of the most dreadful Kind, that all my Senses have been Witness of their Force, and that, not only in Visions in my Bed, but waking, and in the open Fields; and that many great and wonderful Things have, from my Childhood, been revealed to me by them : Nor do I conceal this from the World out of Fear of anything they can say against me for it, but because it is vain for me to hope my 
Words 
I IIS 1 
Words will have that Weight while i am living, as, I am certain, they will obtain when I am past the Censure, the Praise, or the Concern of anything below. 
Here I will beg Leave to incerta merry Adventure which happened in my more juvinile Years, and may, perhaps, be diverting to my Readers after this grave and tedious Discourse. 
About Twenty-five Years ago, there was a famous blind Man, of whom I had heard wonderful Stories, especially concerning his being able to distinguish Colours, and playing at all Games on the Cards •, and I exprefhng a great Desire to see him, a Gentleman of my Acquaim tance undertook to bring us together : Accordingly a Day was fixed, and he was to play three Games at All fours with me for a Guinea to be spent, and I was to have my own Cards. The appointed Day being arrived, both of us were punctual, neither of us failed, and each had his Squire to supply the Deficiency of our several Talents. A great deal of Company were there, and it occasioned abundance of Laughter among them to see our Salutation After a Half pint of Brandy round, I pulled out my Cards, and was very watchful, as I thought, yet, for all that, I was deceived : Before we went to Play, he would needs show some Tricks •, and it was a most surprising Thing to me, to see him go directly to any Card I called for *, he was very I 2 arch 
C II ] 
arch about Kings, Knaves, Politics * and State' Affairs •, but while he was amusing me this Way, his ’squire marked all the Cards with a small Pin, so as not to be perceived by the Eye, but easily distinguished by the Touch, by a per fon who depended wholly on feeling, as he, himself, showed me afterwards. 
At last, to Play we went, and he let me win the first Game, by way of Compliment, but he Won the second and third; and as I began to find myself the forlorn Hope, I conveyed three of the Knaves into my Bosom, thinking, by them, to retrieve all *, but I presently saw him laugh, and he told my Friend, That I had three Knaves, and might take the fourth if I pleajed, he would he at me for all that; on which I threw up my Cards, owned the Wager lost, and contented myself with being the Game of the Company, as they called it. 
My blind Man. wondered how it could be possible to talk by Fingers, and said, He would freely spend his Guinea to mine, to learn : A Friend of mine soon took him up, and engaged to make Us able to converse together that Way in half an Hour. Some of the Company believed this a Thing impossible, and several Wagers were laid upon it, but thole who were of a contrary Opinion, were soon convinced, for the Gentleman made him immediately comprehend the twenty-four Letters, which done, it was easy 
sot 
r ii 3 
for him to put them into what Words he pleased j when he directed his Discourse to me, and when I spoke to him, I had no more to do, than to touch his Fingers instead of my own : In fine, no two Perions in Company could be more con verfible with each other, than we were within the Time prefixed; on which, said the blind Man, I see by Feeling, and you hear by your Eyes. Fie afterwards surprised eveiy body, by his being able to distinguish Colours only by rubbing the Cloth between his Fingers: A brisk Spark asking him, If he would not gladly change all for his Eyesight?? answered him, That he would not •, and added, That he believed, /, who Jaw so much, would readily change Talents with him : On which, I told the Company, That I would not lose the Sight of the Sun, and a fine Woman, to be Emperor of the whole Globe; and, that I would be deprived of Legs and Arms, nay, endure caftra tion itself rather than quit so valuable a Bleffng as that of Sight. 
I 3 C H A R 
I 118 ] 
On the G e n i i. 
H A T every Man, from his Birth, is under the Direction of both a good and bad Genius, is as certain, as that by Air the Breath of Life is preserved;; according as either of these prevails, we are addicted to Virtue or to Vice, to Things which tend to our Happiness or Misery in this World also, as well as in the next; but of what Degree or Order these ministering Spirits are, is a Query to which the most learned can give no positive Solution. 
That God has given his blessed Angels Charge over us, as we are more than once informed in Holy Writ; and that the fallen ones have Power to tempt, seduce, and prompt us to Mischief, the same undeniable Authority af fures us; but whether they may properly be called the Genii, is a knotty Point, or whether there are not yet another Degree of instigating Spirits who preside over our Actions : if it be so, we 
may 
C 119 1 
may be said to be influenced by three second Causes under Heaven to Happiness, viz. The Beneficient Planet which reigned at the Moment of our Nativity, the G uardian Angel, and the good Genius: As also by the Malevolent Aspect at our Birth, the Devil, and the ill Genius. If I may be allowed to give my Opinion, I think this Way of Reasoning rather confounds than clears the Dispute;; if we are under the Direction of a Guardian Angel, as few make any Difficulty of believing, I see no Necessity of a Genius, or rather they are both the same, and Genius is but another Name for Angel: As for any other intellectual Advisers, I look on them to be only pur own Actions, which, according as they are, infligate and prompt us to Good or Evil. 
The wifefi of us all, however, can no more than guess;; we remain in this Life, we see, as St. Paul says, through a Glass dimly, hut when once we are arrived at Immortality, we [hall difiin guijh clearly all those ’things which at present seem so dark. How vain is it, therefore, to spend our Time in the Search of what is impojjible to he found, or if it could, would probably avail us nothing! 
But to return to the Deftgn of this Chapter. Though all Men are under the Guidance of these intellectual Intelligences, yet to very few have they made themselves visible, and when they have, it has been frequently in such Shapes as might rather create Aversion or Contempt, than I 4 Love 
t no d 
Love or Veneration. I knew a Person who. never attempted to commit an ill Action, but something in the Form of a Bear appeared to him, and flared him in the Face; and whenever he went out of his Koufe on any laudable Design he was sure of feeing the same Shape go before him Step by Step, never turning, urdefs it was to warn him to go back, which, whenever it did, he knew there was something of Misfortune or Danger in the Way. This he had in many Things experienced; but one Time above the rest deserved his particular Regard, and is not unworthy a Place in this Treatise. As hs was on the Road travelling towards Dunstable, where he went every Year, having a small Estate in that Part, his Conductor, on a sudden, turned short upon him, and flood crofs way •, this very much amazed him, but being unwilling not to pursue his Journey, he quitted the Road and took the Field *, but before he had proceeded many Paces, the Bear was before him, not peaceably marching on as his Guide or Harbinger, but as a Beast of Prey in act to tear him to Pieces and devour him ■, this so much frighted him, that he turned his Horse, and made what Haste he could back to a little House, where he had a little before called to drink at: There he alighted, which he had no sooner done, than he saw the Bear He down quietly at the Door. He now perceived he had been but menaced into Safety, and filled with an imaginary Danger, to preserve him from a real one, though of what 
Nature 
i III ] 
Nature he could not guess, till having tarried where he was home Hours, a Gentleman was brought in, who had been robbed and mortally wounded by three Highwaymen, on that very Spot where the Bear had obliged him to turn back, and, according to the belt Calculation of Time, not above two Minutes after he had left it. 
Another Perlon, from whose own Mouth I also had the following Account, being one Night in Bed, was llrangely disturbed by something which seemed to pull the Corner of the Sheet; he was a little surprised at first, but being naturally Courageous, he drew the Curtain, and by a Candle, which he had always burning in the Chimney, he saw a huge Rat, which ran several Times round the Bed, and in its Race Hill catched hold on the Sheet, and plucked it with uncommon Eagerness. The Gentleman taking it for a real material Rat, and having a kind of Averhon to those Vermin, jumped out of Bed, and drew his Sword, designing to kill it, but the Creature evaded the Blows, and though he thought several Times the Point was through the Body, yet did he' Bill see it running about : After having disappointed him in this Manner, it made to the Door, and, as he thought, escaped under it; on which he turned the Spring, thinking to destroy this Interrupter of his Repose in the stair cafe, but he was presently inspired with other Thoughts, for on opening the Door, 
such 
C 121 ] 
such a terrible Smoke burst in upon him, as affixed him the House was on Fire, and left him nothing to reflect on, but how to escape the Danger he was going to run downstairs, but had not gone halfway, before he perceived the Flames had already seized all the lower Part? on which he had Presence enough of Mind to run back into his Chamber, which looking into the Garden, he threw himself out of the Window, and got over the Wall time enough to alarm the Neighbours, and by that Means preserved himself and many others, who elfe doubtless would have perished;; being lost but the careless Wretch who had occasioned this Conflagration, by setting a Scuttle bafket of hot Cynders under a Dresser in the Kitchen, which presently taking Fire, consumed all that was near it; the Wench lying in a Settle bed just by, was, no doubt, immediately fuf located. 
A Story, no less surprising than either of these, I can aver the Truth of, being intimately acquainted with the Person principally concerned in it. This Gentleman having experienced the Frailties of the fair Sex, Was an utter Enemy to Marriage and, I am sure, I do not wrong him when I say, that till the Age of three or four and thirty, no Man was ever a greater Rake, He was, indeed, one of those whose Example made me wicked; we have fenced together, drank together, whored together, fcowered the Watch 
together, 
t 113 1 
together, and, in fine, done everything together which distinguishes the Rattle from the Men of Consideration. But. as these were only the Extravagancies of Youth, when he arrived at the Years I mentioned, he began to grow ashamed of his former Behaviour, and would often say, That jucha condvm was not only an Offence to Heaven, hut also to the Dignity of humane Reason \ a Word, he threw off all his former Follies, discarded all his unreformed companl ons, and became a perfect sober Man: Being such, and of a good Family, and a plentiful Estate, he had a great many Matches proposed to him; but though the V ices of his own Humour were entirely converted into Virtues, yet did his Aversion to Marriage still continue, Dot out of any Dislike of that State in itself, but having been guilty of wronging the Bed of many a deserving Man' himself, he feared it would come home to him •, and Cuckoldom being an Injury he knew himself unable to endure, without committing some desperate Act, he thought it best not to put it to a Venture. This made him refuse all the Offers that were made to him, and it was the Opinion of everybody, as well as of himself, that courting any Woman for a Wife, would be the last Thing he would do. But at length he began to find, that though he had thrown off all his loose Behaviour, he could not do the same by his amorous Inclinations, and the Fires of Youth not being extinguished in him, he continually wished L.,;. there 
t 124 J 
there were a Possibility of his being assured of a woman’s Virtue, but there was none, for the Timidity of his Humour, in this Point, made him look on the most innocent Freedoms of that Sex as Criminal; and though he was acquainted with many Ladies of undoubted Chastity, he could not find in his Heart to place so great a Dependance on .any one of them, as to trust his Honour and Peace of Mind in her Keeping, till one Summer, being at the Country House of a Relation of his, he saw a farmer’s Daughter who lived in the Neighbourhood *, the Girl was very beautiful, and not exceeding sixteen Years of Age, and seemed possessed of such an innate Modesty, that fine could not restrain her Blushes if even spoke to by a Man j but a Kifs or the least Touch of her Hand threw her into a Trembling. This Behaviour was sufficient to charm my Friend 5 he was now certain he had found a Virgin, and he thought he might depend on his own Watchfulness over her topre ferve her uncorrupted after she became his Wife. As he was entirely the Master of himself and Fortune, he asked no Advice if he should marry her; and it is not to be doubted but such a Proposal was acceptable to her Parents, feeing the great Affection he had for her j they, however, took so much Advantage of it as to demand a Settlement for her, in Cafe he should die without Children, to which he readily complied, and the Day being fixed for drawing the Writings, he brought a Lawyer to the farmer’s 
[ I2 s 1 
mer’s House;; everything was ready for him to sign, the Window being open, a Raven flew in, and with her Beak snatched the Pen out of his Hand, as he was that Moment putting it to the Parchment. So odd an Accident surprised the whole Company, but most the intended Bridegroom i however, loath to show himself superstitious, he took another Pen, on which the Raven returned, and, fluttering over the Table, croaked several Times, and with her Wings and Claws threw down the Writings, and made, as it were, a kind of an Effort to tear them. It is impossible to express the confter nation everybody now felt, but the Gentleman was lb much Ihocked, that he became exceeding sick, insomuch, that he was unable, if ye he had an Inclination, to fet his Eland at this Time. It was also the Opinion of everyone, that it should be deferred, though, perhaps, none could tell the Meaning of so particular an Omen, yet all agreed it was not a good one. 
My Friend was so much dilbrdered, that they persuaded him to tarry all Night, telling him, they hoped the next Day would recover him, and alio bring Promises of a better Fate: He was eaflly persuaded, and they put him to Bed, but his discontented Thoughts quitted him not there; he could not reflect on what had happened, without believing there was something miraculous in it *, and tho’ he was infinitely in 
Love 
C 1*6 ] 
Love with the Girl, not all his good Opinion was sufficient to make him flatter himself with the Hope of Happiness with her. Finding it impossible to deep, arid it being a fine Moonlight Night, he put on his Clothes, and resolved to pafs the Remainder of it in the Garden; but, as he was puffing thro’ the Yard which led thither, he heard Voices in a Barn, close to which he was obliged to go; Curiosity made him stand to listen what had brought anybody there, at an Hour in which he imagined, none awake but himself, and easily perceived, that one of those who spoke, was his Mistress, and the Person who accompanied her, a Rival more beloved than himself j he heard the Words, My Dear, — my Love, and my Life, several Times repeated, before he offered to interrupt the Conversation, but his Patience being, at length, put to the Rack, and reflecting, that whatever he should iay of this the next Day, would be denied, and his Accusation taken as Malice, or Inconstancy he burst suddenly into the Barn, and found this seeming innocent Maid with her Partner, who was no other than one of her father’s Ploughmen, in a Pofiure the mould provoking to a Lover; in fine, in one not fitting to describe, but convincing to him that saw it, how grossly he had been cheated, if he had married her. They both fell on their Knees, and begged he would be secret; but he was then too much exasperated to promise anything, and flinging from them, returned to his Bed, acknowledging, the 
Raven 
C 127 j 
Raven had been his Guardian angel When he came, after, to reflect coolly on it, his Rage was succeeded by Contempt *, but, as he had loved her, forbore exposing her, and only telling her Father, Thai, for some private Reasons, he could not marry, took his everlasting Leave of the whole Family. 
I have known several of these, who, like Sir Solomon Single, in the Comedy, are sure of having a Virgin for their Wise, provided they make Choice of one that is very young, and very Ally, and have found themselves deceived on the Proof, tho’ I know of npne, but this Gentleman, whole Good Angel so immediately interposed, or, to speak more justly, none who were so ready to obey its Admonitions. 
I could present my Reader with innumerable Instances of Persons who have seen and conversed with their good Genii but have neither heard, nor read of many, to whom an ill one has been so familiar; and concerning the Reason of this, 
I once met with a very learned Dispute between two, who were both great Philosophers, and Divines of the Church of England : The one maintained, that it was owing to the great good nefs of Providence to us Mortals, that the ill Genii had not the Power of being viflble, because they would, doubtless; appear in such a Form, as must drive the Person who beheld them, to Diffraction, The other, though far from 
taking 
C 12, 8: 
taking from the Mercy of the Supreme Being? would not allow it laid any such Restriction, but that the Evil Spirits themselves chose rather to infuse their pernicious Doctrines into the Ears of the Mind, than any way render themselves perceptible by the Organs of the Body : To prove this, he added, That according to the Notion of the rnoft learned Men on these supernatural Beings, it is permitted them to assume what Shape they please, and they might, therefore, appear in the most perftiafive and agreeable, as fcafily as in the most dreadful one. 
I will not pretend to enter into Secrets of this Kind, nor to determine which of these Gentlemen was really in the Right, though according to all humane Probability, the latter had the best of the Argument : But shall conclude this Chapter with two Aflertibns, which are all I dare be positive in; first, That every Man, from his Birth, is divided between the Influences of a good and bad Genius, under whatsoever' ' or Orders they may be distinguished;; that, tho’ few have cbnverfed with them any otherwise than intellectually, and, in a manner, altogether imperceptible to the Sense's, yet, in the Moment of departing this Life, they ar visible, and either mitigate the Agonies of Death, or add new Horrors to it, according to the Power either of them has had over the Actions of the dying Person. Of this I could give many 
Examples from the Sacred Text, and the Judgement 
... ' ■) 
F 12, 9 ] 
ment of the most learned, as well Christian as profane Authors; but whoever carefully observes the Emotions of a perfon’s Face justin that Crisis, will discern enough not to Hand in Need of any other Testimonial. 
CHAP. XII 
On the S e g o n d Sight. 
T will, doubtless, be expected that I, who have the Gift of Second Sights should say something by way of defining it but, tho’ to do that is utterly impossible, yet, to gratify the Curiosity of my Readers, I shall make no Secret of anything concerning it, that is in my Power to reveal. 
First, Then, it cannot be denied, that the Second Sight is a palpable and immediate fnfpira tion from the supreme Source of all Knowledge : The Person poffefted of it, has no Warning of its coming on, or quitting him j he sees, and comprehends Millions of Things at once, which other Mortals are incapable even of conceiving » and which he himself, Who difeerning them 
K clearly 
C 150 1 
clearly with his bodily Eyes, has not the Power of describing. 
Secondly, It is not to be learned, nr acquired, by the moult strenuous Application; it laughs at all the Efforts of Wisdom, and puts to Shame all humane Knowledge •, it is equally powerful in Childhood as in Maturity, nor abates of its Force in enervating Old Age; the Infirmities of the Body have no Effect on it, but, on the contrary, it renders strong, for the Time, those Organs of the Senses thro’ which it operates. 
!Thirdly, It brings the most distant Objects to Hand, Mountains, Rivers, Seas, are no Impe. « diment to its Discernment, nor can what is acted in the most dark Recess, escape its Penetration. It even looks beyond this World, and descries those Beings who owe their Origin to something above Nature; the perpetual Combats between the good and bad Genii *, the Revolution of Orbs too distant for the telefcope’s Discovery;; Fates of whole Kingdoms, as well as of particular Persons, are its ordinary Entertainments; in fine, there is nothing shut from the Second Sight, but the Divine Mysteries of that Heaven of Heavens, where sits enthroned the awful and unutterable Majesty of Him who made these Wonders. 
To be pofteffed, at all Times, of this infpira tign, this surprising, this unspeakable Emanation 
of 
[ 131 1 
of the Divine Prescience, what would it be but to arrive at Immortality before our Time? But, alas! it comes upon us but by Starts, it is with us, it is gone, and, like a sudden Thought, is lost in Clouds, nor can our utmost Art recall it, till all at once, and e’er we are aware, it returns, and with the lame Velocity vanishes again. 
Many of my Confulters have told me they extremely envied me this Gift j that they would give all they were worth in the World, to be poffefted of it in the same Degree I am *, and that they thought it a Blessing infinitely superior to anything Humanity could receive *, but, tho’ I should think it profane in me to repdne at the Will of Heaven, and have profited as much by this Gift, as, perhaps, any that ever had it, yet, I cannot but confess, it has frequently presented me with Objects so very astonishing and terrible, as have made me wish, within myself, it would .depart from me for ever. 
Sometimes, when surrounded by my Friends, fueh as Anthony Hammond, Esq; Mr. Philip Horneck, 
Mr. Phillips, Mr. -- —., Mrs. Centhrone, 
Mrs. Fowh Mrs. Eliza Haywood and other celebrated Wits, of which my House, for some Years, has been the general Rendezvous, a good Bowl of Punch before me, and the Glass going round in a constant Circle of Mirth and good-humour, I have, in a Moment, beheld Sights K 2, which 
t 13a 1 
which has froze my very Blood, and put me into Agonies that disordered the whole Company. 
Even in my Bed, where, after the Fatigues of the Day were over, I hoped Repose, my Chamber has been filled with Company, the most Blocking to humane Nature. In the Fields my Solitude has been, in the same Manner, disturbed; in the Park, when most crowded with the gay World, 1 have seen among the Belles and Beaux, such Objects, as, could they have discerned as well as I, it would have converted their Pride into Confusion, and their Sprightliness into an guifh. 
Not that the Second Sight affords only occa fiobs of Dread; all that the most raptured Imagination can form of Delight, falls short of those Heavenly Yifions which have, sometimes, danced before my Eyes; and, were it not for the exqui ftte Happiness of the latter, the former would be impossible to be sustained with Life. 
This is all the Description I am able to give of Second Sight; nor do I believe it in the Power of anybody to do it more fully. As I have been possessed sit from my Childhood, the various Objects it presents, are much more familiar to me, and consequently less astonishing, than to a Person who but lately received the Inlpiration i U therefore, may be allowed to say, that what I am unable to reveal concerning it, none elfe 
can 
C ij3 1 
can pretend to do, without being guilty of an Imposition on those they fnall endeavour to gain Credit from. 
CHAP. XIII 
On the Virtues 0/ Loadstone, and 
some dther choice Curiosities in Nature. 
AVIN G in a former Chapter made Mention of the mod terrible Fits, which, for several Years together, perplexed me, and sometimes for whole Days took from me the Power of doing anything for the Service of those who came to consult me at that Time, and being now greatly relieved from them, I think it my Duty to let the World know by what Means I received so peculiar a Mercy. After having edayed all that Physic could do, and finding not the lead Benefit, I gave myself over as incurable; till one Night my good Genius, in the Shape in which he ordinarily appeared to me, came to my Bedside, and informed me, that by wearing a load jlone I should have Ease. I then fet myself seriously to confiderits Virtues, and wondered how I could have been so long Stupid, as not to make the Trial of what, in nuipberlefs Cafes, I had K 3 expe 
[ ij4 3 
experienced the good Effects of on others, "though in Relation to different Diseases and ca fualties. 
The Loadjtone, of all Things under Heaven, has this peculiar Quality, to attract and draw off at the same Time. The Person who wears it, is not only defended from the Infection of any 111 from Abroad, but is also certain of the Love and Esteem of his Fellow-creatures. Of all Magnetics in Nature, without the Assistance of Art, it is certainly the moil effectual, and there is scarce any Contingency of Life, wherein it is not of excellent Use. 
I n Maladies it chiefly is of Force on those which relate to the Head and Eyes, such as Epileptic or convulsive Fits, and Dimness of Sight, occasioned either by too dry or too moist a Brain. 
I t is admirably serviceable to thole who labour under the Malignity of an Evil Tongue, and even (by god’s bidling) repels the Efforts of Witchcraft in great Measure. 
A s to its Virtues, they are numberless, and I might fill a Volume, and not recount half of them; it Khali therefore fuffi.ee to say, ‘that 'whoever wears it, if defined to good Fortune, he Shall find his Happiness increase by the pojjejjion of it j and if i'll, an Abatement of his Woes. This 
[ ij? 3 
has been experienced by Hundreds, and I doubt not, but when this comes to be in Print, ' a great many of them will readily avouch it. 
I a m sensible, however, that several Persons have carried a Loadjlone about them, without finding the least good Effect proceed from it; but this does not at all lessen the Virtues of this admirable Magnetic, as I will make appear very plainly. 
jfirjl, Among the many Impositions practised in this great City, there is none more gross than that on the Account of the Loadjlone. I knew a Man who got an Estate by selling a compound Matter of his own Composing for it. how then could any Virtue proceed from it? nothing being more difficult in reality to come by than a ure Loadjlone. 
Secondly, There is a great deal owing to the Setting and Arming the Loadjlone, when a true one, so as to render it capable of operating in its full Force and Vigour •, and to do this, with Skill, requires Instruction from something more than a Mechanic. There is but one Man in England who is possessed of this Art, and was taught it by myself, under an Obligation to work in that Manner for no other Person but me, or those to whom I ffiould bequeath my Secrets after pay Decease. 
C 1361 
The, Egyptian Loadjloncs are infinitely the bed;, for which Reason, I purchased a good Number of them, of a Merchant to whom I communicated their Virtues, and engaged him to procure them for me j but as they cost more than twice the Price of those which are ordinarily made Use of by Mariners, it has given a Handle to my Enemies, to make those, who judge but by Appearances, believe I imposed on my Customers, by taking from them, what they call an extravagant Rate: But I have this Consolation, as in many other Things, that the Persons themselves who pay’d the Money are of another Opinion, and value the Favour I did them, as it indeed deserves. 
As I have always made it my Study to oblige my Clients, I have had it in my Power to do them many more Services than could be expected from the Second Sight alone, by conversing with all the Virtnofi I heared of in any Part of the World, and obtaining from them many choice and valuable Secrets. I have corresponded to Adgypt, China, Turkey, and even from the Indies have learned Things, which many who, I doubt not, will read this Book, have experienced the Benefit of; but I would not be thought too partial to my own Country, when X avow, that my most curious Discoveries were made me by a Gentleman born in Scotland, and never out of it in hjs Life. But to give ml 
Reader 
E 137 3 
Reader a clearer Infight into the Obligations I have to him, I shall tiymfcribe a Letter I received from him in his own Words, being an Answer to one I had sent him. 
S I R, 
tfxcus E S for the Non ■performance of a Promise, have more the Air of Coniplaifance than Friendship. Therefore, as it was not in my Power to procure the Rarities you dejired, in Jo Short a Time as I imagined, I chose rather to deprive myself of the pleaj'ure, which a Correspondence with you affords, than raise your Expectations with the Sight of a Letter from me, which, when opened, would have given you so severe a Disappointment: But the hearty Zeal I have to serve you, and through you to do Good to my Fellow-creatures, having at last surmounted all Difficulties, I Shall now, with an inexpreffble Satisfaction, return to that happi nefs, the Reasons abovementioned, have for Jo long an Interval debarred me from purjuing. -- - 
I HAVE sent you a pretty large Quantity of the finefi Coraline the Jfe of Sky affords. Tou know the other Virtues of it so well, that I need not trouble you with a Repetition of them •, but the most eminent Physician and Virtuoso of these Parts, has lately discovered a new and wonderful ejfidt which it is capable of performing, to which, I believe, you are yet a Stranger: In the Box which contains it, you will find the Recipe, and proper Directions for the 
Manage 
C i38 1 
Management of it, for a certain Malady therein mentioned. ....... 
WITH incejfdnt Labour and Application, I have also procured some of the miraculous Black Bean *, an Amulet, which those who profess ihem felves the great eft Enemies to what we call superfti tion, are fond of keeping by them, and far from being afbamed of doing so. Tour fair Clients will doubtless, rejoice (when they [hall know the prodigious E feds that a little of the Powder of one of tbeje Beans will produce) to have it in their Power to compass their Defines so eaftly. 
WITH the rest of the Cargoe, there is alft twelve Phials of the Cleft rock Water, by king horn, which, I am certain, will be of infinite Service to you in your wonderful Experiments. - — -. 
THE Ship is ready to fet Sail, and one of the Men impatiently attends to be dispatched, which prevents my enlarging at this Time, and I must beg leave to conclude, with ajfuring dear Mr. camp bel, that 
I am, 
His very sincere Friend, 
and humble Servant, 
A. L V S. 
C 139 1 
/ 
P. S. I have sent you a Box of Eagle Stones by Mr. Gordon Whitchet, so famous to prevent mijcarriages. I thought them too valuable to trufi to the Mercy of the Seas, as, indeed, all the other Things are, but had no Opportunity to send any more by Land. Once more Adieu. Write to me on the Receipt of this. 
I t never was my Nature to deny the Favours I receive, nor do I think it any Diminition of my own Merit, to acknowledge, that many of the wonderful Things I have done, have been owing to the curious Inquisitions of my learned Friends, nor will I pretend to appropriate any more to myself, than the Power of foretelling Events, and giving Advice in what Manner it is belt to behave in them. 
A s for the admirable Virtues of the Black Bean, they would seem incredible, even to my self, had I not so frequently beheld the Proof. A certain Lady, whose Name I shall forbear to mention, has Reason to bless my Acquaintance with the Gentleman above; for (after being forsaken, slighted, nay, aim oft despised, for the Space of several Years, by a Person who had beguiled her of her Innocence and Reputation) she had not worn this Amulet full one and twenty Days, before her Lover returned full of Penitence for his past Offences, and more enamoured 
than 
n 1401 
than ever : In fine, he put an End to her Shame and Sorrow, by publicly making her his Wife. 
The Coraline, duly prepared, is no less wonderful •, it renders fertile the sterile Womb, and brings back the Vigour of Youth in aim oft old Age. 
I should not omit the miraculous Things have been brought about by the Cleft rock Water, but that it being now impossible to be attained, I will not give my Readers that Regret; the Knowledge of its Virtues would of consequence raise in their Minds, for the Loss of so excellent a Spring, which, for these two Years, has been dried, or, at least, stopped up in such a Manner, as leaves no Elope of ever being able to explore it any more. 
The good Effects of the Eagle Stone on pregnant Women are too commonly known to lay me under any Necessity of repeating them : But as the right ones are very hard to be got, I would have all, who stand in Need of them, be careful in the Purchase, because it is not only losing the Benefit which might acrue from the Ufeof them, but the Stone which, I am very certain, has been imposed on some People for an Eagle Stone, though it exactly resembles it in Form and Colour, being carried about a Woman, produces an Effect quite contrary to what is expected from it; and is as certain in its Operation a pernicious 
Way, 
t 141 1 
Way, as the other is in a beneficial one. This I think is my Duty to inform the Public, it being a rare Secret, and known but to very few. 
I f it shall please the Almighty to continue me a few Years longer in this World, I shall make it my Care to procure a sufficient Store of these valuable Commodities, not only to furnish. my good Confulters with during my natural Life, but also to leave some behind me with my Wife, in Cafe they should be inquired after, as I doubt not but they will, by many after my decease;; the Loadficnes, because it has been evidently proved. The effectual Sort are to be had nowhere but of me; nor will I fail, by god’s Leave, to prepare a considerable Quantity of my Sympathetic Powder, which, tho’1 I do not pretend to cure Wounds at Distance with, yet has been often found of Service for the Cure, or, at least, the Ease of Pains in the Mind : It being, to use the Words of a certain Lady who experienced it, the hest Balsam Nature ever produced to heal a bleeding Heart \ Nor, indeed, could I dye entirely at Peace with myself, if I should neglect so sovereign a Remedy as I know this to be. 
CHAP. 
I ls\z 1 
CHAP. XIV 
Containing some Examples of the Unreason able Things frequently required cf me. 
fticli a Height does the Curiosity, Wjm the Ambition, of the Malice of JR People tranfpoft them, that, as they often say, They would, indeed, go to the Devil to obtain their Ends *, and so silly are they, withal, as to imagine they need but ask and have, those in my Opinion, the Devil is least busy about those who so much desire to be acquainted with him : But Raillery apart; I had Once a Consulter on ah Occasion so very extraordinary, that, I think, it well deserves a Place in these Remarks, to the End, that unprejudiced Persons may see how little I have been inclinable to deceive those who put Confidence in me, and how strangely I have, sometimes, been put to it, to bring People to a right Notion of themselves, or what they ought to do 5 I shall, therefore, as I have all the Papers that passed between us, by me, - fet down the Conversation, in the very Words it happened, 
After 
C 14$ 1 
After, then, the accustomed Fee was paid me, and I had wrote her Name, (for that is a Proof of my Art, which is expected from me by all Degrees of People) Ihe began in this Manner. 
Woman. am now convinced you know as much as I was informed you did, and, therefore, I shall not trouble you with aiking any other Questions, for you mult understand, my Affair with you is of another Nature; but you must be Secret 
D. CIT is not my Way to betray the Secrets entrusted to me i I am the same as a con felfor in that. 
Woman. I have heard so, and that makes me confide in you j but you must, also, promise to do what I desired. 
C You may depend on that, if in the Compass of my Art. 
Woman. Yes, yes, I know it is in your Power, or I would not have come to you. 
D. C If you think so, make no more Delays, I am ready to Serve you. 
Woman. You must know, a Relation of mine died about three Years ago, and left me a handsome Legacy, but the Rogues of Executors put off the Payment from Time to Time, with frivolous Excuses, knowing I cannot hold out a Lawsuit with them; I having been lick, and out of Business for a great while, and driven to 
great 
C 144 1 
great Straits: In short, I am not able to fcrabble any longer, and am resolved to sell myself to the Devil for a certain Time, if he will give me Money to recover my Legacy, and to do some other Things. 
D. C Explain what you mean by that Word selling yourself for a Time, and I will give you my Answer. 
tvomcin. I wonder you should be so dull of Apprehension •, why, it must be to the lower Regions, I do not desire to (lay a great while here, and am afraid of nothing : I am fully resolved to do it, if such a Thing can be done, which I am persuaded it may, and that you can put me in a Way how to do it: I earnestly beg, therefore, that you will, and that with all Speed, for every Moment is a Loss to me. 
D. C You strangely amaze me, but I hope you are not in earned:; 
Woman. Ido not know why you should think foi allure you I am; but I suppose you are so scrupulous because I have not offered you a competent See, but, believe me, I have tried all the Means I could to raise five Pounds for you, though I could no Ways do it; but you may depend on me, that as soon as the Bargain is made, and I have received the Money, you shall have fifty Pounds; therefore, pray dispatch it, that I may be at Eased. 
C And have you considered how terrible a Thing it is to sell your Soul to everlasting Perdition, for a little transitory Pleasure?? 

r 145* 1 
Woman. Nothing in it, I value not myself; 1 must and will do it. — I have no other Way, — when I have done that, I shall have Money to pay you and other People, and to live handsomely;; — pray make no more Scruples, I shall always esteem you, and be grateful, only be as speedy as you can, for it will be worse by this Day Week, if it be not done. 
D. C What do you mean by worse?? 
To be plain, I am not able to endure the Misery I am in any longer, and if I do not remedy it, as I can no otherwise than by this Means, I am resolved to hang myself. 
D. C Truly, as you lay, that would be giving yourself to the Devil for nothing. 
Woman. Therefore, if ever you did, or ever will do ’any thing as long as you live, I beg you will do this for me, and you shall have fifty Pounds. 
D. C I thought, since the Days of Francis Spin a, and Doctor Faujlus, no such Wickedness had ever entered into the Heart of Man, much less of Woman, whose Sex, for the moult Part, renders her more soft and timid : Go Home * and pray *, for the Devil has already taken too great Pofiyfiion of you, without giving Money for it, and it must be only the moult sincere Penitence can unlole his Hold. 
Woman. I wonder you should talk so; I never was inclined to any Sort of Wickedness in my Life •, it is mere Meceffity drives me to do this, and if Heaven had thought fit to give me L what 
C 146 3 
what I want, I should never have thought of having Recourse to Hell. 
D. C Thus Mortals profanely tax the Bounty of their Creator, as if infinite Wisdom could be fathomed by humane Penetration : The Misfortunes you are under, are of your own seeking they proceed from want of Faith, and resignation, *, to reform your Heart, read the Holy Bible, and pray against the Temptations of the Devil, and, I will answer, you will either have better Fortune, or bear what you have with more Content. 
Woman. If I thought there was a Possibility of living easy in the World, I would try what I could do. 
D. C De pen dance on the Will of Heaven will make everything easy to you •, but, I would have you have Recourse to some able Divine, I am certain it would give you great Relief: As for what you desire of me, I would not have a Hand in it for all the Riches in the World. 
Woman. Well, Sir, I will take your Advice *, but if I should find no Benefit by the Means you propose, I shall certainly make myself away. 
D. C There is no Danger of it, if you are sincere in your Conversion, and willing to improve the Benefit you will receive from such a Behaviour. 
Woman. I will tiy; for, I confess, I am a little fhock’d that you, who muff certainly deal with the Devil, by the Things youforetef, should 
think 
C 147 ] 
think it fb lad a Thing to have any Business with hirri. 
'D. C As for that Mistake, it may be rectified another Time •, but, if you observe my Directions, you will be ready to confess, they proceeded not from the Devil, or ahy of his Agents: Therefore delay not, but be as zealous and iifr patient in this good Work, as you were, lately, in the Pursuit of the most horrid and detestable one. 
Woman. I shall, and, whatever Progress L make, you shall know : I Will wait on you again in a few Days. 
Here she took her Leave, and according to her Promise, came to me again in about a Fortnight, entirely altered in her Way of thinkings and told me, She owed not only her Satisfaction of Mind in this Life, but the Hope of her eternal Salvation also, in the next, in a great Meafufe to what I had said to her. 
Another Day I was accosted by one of the most lovely young Women I had ever seen in ifiy Life, but looked extremely pensive and melan cholly. I easily fead, at first View, the Misfortune which had occasioned it, but had not the least Guess of the Request she had to make me for the Relief of it, which I shall fet down, also in in the Terms she expressed it: After I had let her know I was sensible she had resigned her Honour to the deluding Artifices of a certain great L 2 Man, 
[ 148 3 
Man, whose Name, with her own, I alio, according to Custom, was obliged to write at full Length. 
Young Lady. I had not buffered my Virtue to become a Prey to his enchanting Tongue many Days, before I heard, by Accident, that he kept a Miss refs, by whom he had several Children, and was fa extremely fond of, that there was not any Possibility of his quitting her : This News made me almost diffracted; the first Time I saw him, after it, I burst into Tears, and upbraided him with the Deceit he had been guilty of to me : He seemed a little shocked, but, in the End, confessed, there was a Lady whom he had had a long Intimacy with, but Iwore a thousand Oaths, that his Passion for her was now degenerated into a cold Esteem, or, at belt, a mere 'Friendship;; that all his warmer Inclinations were entirely devoted to my Charms. Yet, notwithstanding this, he is scarce one Day without feeing her, and I have not a V ifit from him above once a Week, and sometimes not so often *, and I was told by one that knows him very well, and, I am sure, would not be guilty of uttering an Untruth, that he declares to all his Friends, That if ever he marries, jjoe jhall.be the Woman. Now, Sir, I would fain have your Opinion, whether there be any Pohibility of getting the Better of this Rival, and I will then tell you what I would have done. 
D. C She 
C 149 1 
D. C She seems to have got fast hold of his Heart *, the Children he has by her, endear her to him, and she is a Woman of Prudence and Discretion. 
X Lady, Why then does he not keep constant to her? Why did he take so much Pains to betray me? 
D. C He is a Man of Wit and Pleasure, and they are for all the fine Ladies, though they may be more particularly attached to one. 
T Lady. Then all the Men of Wit and Pleasure are no better than Villains, ■""■■■■« but I have thought of a Way to triumph over her, if you will be so good to afford me your Assistance. 
D. C As how, fair Lady? 
T. Lady. I would have you fet some Spell upon her, that should make her grow ugly : I have been told, that there are Things to be done, which will make a Person lose their Complexion, Hair, and Teeth s I would have her as deformed as possible, and if once her Beauty was gone, his Honour would never prevail above his Inclination. 
D. C I will not flatter you; though she is handsome, Stis not the Charms of her Person, so much as of her Mind, that have bound her to him; in fine, she has preserved him by her good Conduct, as you have lost him by the contrary; and though I should agree to do as you would have me, I am certain you would not be a Jot the better beloved for it, 
I 3 T. Lady. 
i io i 
T Lady. Ido not know what you mean; pray what have I done to lessen his Affections? I am lure Move him to Diffraction. 
D. C You do jfo; but that is not the Cafe: More Women lose their Lovers by loving them too much than too little; not that Love destroys Love, unless bellowed on a vile Object indeed. But where there is a great deal ofpaffion, and little Conduct, it makes a Woman guilty of Indecorums, which mull infallibly lessen the e fteem of a Man of Sense;; I would not give one Farthing for that Sort of Affection which is without Esteem. 
T. Lady. You argue very justly;; he pretended such an Infinity of Tenderness to me, that all I could do was no more than a Return. 
D. C I speak not of your Behaviour to him when you were alone together; I do not think a Woman can be too fond when there are no Eyes but those of her Lover to be Witness of it. But I mean, you have been too open to other People. Your Passion for him, made you talk perpetually on him; you have watched at the Door and Window for his passing by in his Coach, and have called your Companions to look at him; in fine, you have taken a Pride in revealing what it would have been greater Difcretipn not to have given any Reason to suspect: And when a Woman loses all Regard for her own Honour, a Man i apt to esteem her Affection as little. 
To Lady. 
i ii 3 
Y. Lady. If that be the Fault, flic, whom he is much enamoured with, is guilty of the same •, for, I a.m. sure, all the Town is sensible of his Intrigue with her. 
D. C The Circumstance is quite different: They were intimate for a long Time before it was known, and it was from himself that it was first difeovered: besides, where there are Children, it is morally impossible to maintain a perpetual Secrecy. I only say, it lessens a woman’s Character in the Opinion of her Lover, when fly begins to seem careless what the World says of her. 
T. Lady. Well, if I could but draw off his Affection from her, I would not care for anything : I beg, therefore, that you will contrive someway to do it, and I will make you all the Satisfaction you can desire. 
DC. The only Way to dq it, is, by increasing his Affection to yourfejf, and the Means I have already preferibed, if you think fit to follow them. 
T. Lady. I t is now too late to pretend there is nothing between us; all my Acquaintance know it *, even my Father is no Stranger to it j poor Man, it has half broke his Heart. 
'D. €. I know it, and, methinks, you should be sorry you have been so public in it. 
T. Lady. Mv Sorrow now would avail nothing. But tell me •, is there no Way to plague this happy Rival? 
L 4 
I l$ll 
D. C I will not deceive you *, it is out of your Power. 
T, Lady. N o, I can do it, and without your afhftance : I will tell all that has happened to a Person, who I know will carry the News immediately to her. That will certainly make her mad Hie must tremble at the Thoughts of his having a new Mistress, and, I dare believe, by what I have heard, fornething more agreeable. 
D. C 1 have already told you, it is not her Person fibe depends upon, but upon thole em bellifhments of the Mind, which only can maintain a falling Passion: : will but expose yourself, and become less valuable in his Eyes. 
T. Lady. Ido not care, foi but give her Pain. 
D. C It will be a very transient one. You are not the first he has sometimes diverted himself with, yet has his Heart, after llraying, returned lo its Elome in her Bofoin with redoubled fondness: : fiie is so sensible of, that it would be altogether in vain to think to give her any Affliction that way : In short, he is a Man more justly deleaving the Character of Great from his admirable Underllanding, than Birth, Estate, or Employments, though all of them are above the common Level of Mankind; and there is no Way to make your Rival unhappy, but behaving in fucli a Manner, as shall make him judge you merit his Affection bell. 
T, Lady. Well, I will endeavour to follow your Advice, 
This 
C 1*3 1 
This was the Sum of what palled at our first: Conversation;; my Counsel had not the same good Effect on her, as in the preceding Exam * pie. She had but little besides Beauty to recommend her, and that soon lost its Relicti with a Man of her lover’s fine Sense. I was frequently plagued with her Importunities, but had it not in my Power to serve her, she having neither the Capacity, nor Disposition, to do anything which might have contributed to my Endeavours, and she soon fell into that most wretched circum ftance of an abandoned Mistress, while the other Lady glories in having eftabliflaed a lasting and unalterable Affection in the Heart of one of the finest Gentlemen of the present Age : So prevalent is Truth, Tendemefs, good-humour, and good Sense, over those happy enough to diftjn guifh and value such Virtues according to their Due. 
But I had one Adventure, which I never remember without Astonishment at the mingled Wickedness and Folly of some People *, it was with the Wife of a Holland Trader: This Woman loved her Husband with so troublesome a Pafiion, that whenever he was out of her Sight Ihe imagined he was with another Woman, and would be guilty of so many Extravagancies, as Would seem incredible to any who were not wit ruffes of them, 
This 
C IJ4 3 
This Woman came to me, in one of her Agitations, and having been satisfied in my Skill, as to telling her Name, and the Name of her Husband, with the Time of her Marriage, she wrote to me in the following Manner. 
Woman. Sir, I desire you will show me, in a Glass, what my Husband is doing now, for I have Reason to believe he is with some Slut or other. 
D. C What Advantage wpuld that be to you, if you knew it? 
Woman. You must tell me also, where he is, that I may go and tear her Eyes out. 
D. C And would not that provoke him to life you ill? 
Woman. Hi; dares not say a Word ^ for he knows I would go to the Devil for my Revenge But it is in your Power to do me a greater Service than all this. 
D. C What is it? I will serve you in anything that is lawful. 
Woman. This is nothing but what is lawful and just, *, would have you fright my Husband from going to any of these wicked Creatures any more. 
D. C If you send him to me, I will let him see the Folly of it, if he be really guilty. 
Woman. He will not regard anything that is laid to him on that Score, nor will own any of his Tricks •, but I would have you raise a Spirit 
to 
C ijy 1 
to haunt him whenever he goes out of the floufe, and then he would be glad to keep at Home. 
D. C But have you any Proof that he is false to your Bed. 
Woman. No, I want you to give me that. 
D. C But why do you suspect him? 
Woman. Because he often stays abroad a full half hour longer than Business detains him, and pretends he met some Friend by the Way : Sometimes he comes Home very much out of Humour, and does not so much as kifs me; and when I complain of his Unkjndnefs, he makes an Excuse, forsooth, that his Affairs go wrong. In short, I have taken Notice, that he sighs very much of late, and, I am sure, it is far some Whore or another : Therefore, I beg you will raise a Spirit that shall appear to him in a very frightful Shape, and make him glad to come, as fall as he can, to his honest Home. 
D. C And you think this a just and laudable Undertaking? 
Woman. It cannot be otherwise, since it is only to keep him honest. 
D. C So you would send the Devil to your Husband, to prevent his going to a Whore, and all this for a bare Supposition only, for I cannot see you have any Ground to believe him false; and, if I may be allowed to know anything of the Matter, there never was a better natured, and more honest Man in the World; you are happy, if you know when you are so; therefore, instead of tormenting him, leave off your 
jsaloufy, 
t i 1 
Jealousy, and ill Humour, and be affable and obliging, as it is the Duty of a W ife to be, and, I will engage, you will have no Cause of Complaint from him. 
Woman. You tell me this only to save yourself the Trouble of conjuring up a Spirit, but if you will not do it, I shall go to those who will; 1 know there are them that will oblige me, and I should not be ungrateful. 
D. C If such a Thing were to be done, I had much rather it Should be effected by anybody than my self; but, take my Word, whoever pretends to it, will but deceive you; — I tell you once again, your Husband is innocent, and you harbour a Fiend in your own Bread:, worse than any you will ever procure to torment him : Jea joufy is. the word: of Devils, and where it is causeless, brings its own Punishment along with it 
Woman, And are you certain no Woman has any Share in his Affections but myself?? 
C I dare answer for it. 
Woman. I see, now, you are no better than an Impostor;; I will swear he said, my Next door neighbour’s Wise, who is counted no better than Ihe 'ffiould be, was a very comely, agreeable Woman; I know he has a Design upon her, and if you will not do as I have dedred, 
I will go to all the Conjurers in England, but I will find one that lhajl. 
I USED 
[ IS 3 
I used all the Arguments I was Mailer of, to persuade this wicked Wretch to better Thoughts, but it was throwing Pearls before Swine; the more I urged, the more outrageous ihe grew, and, at last, told me, She believed I knew the Rogue her Husband, and was his Confederate in dbujing her. In short, I was forced to take her by the Shoulder, and put her out of the House, that her Noise might not disturb some Ladies of Condition I had above. 
It would be endless to recount the Numbers that, through me, desired the Afllflance of the Devil to compais their Desires;; as some are too gross for Repetition, and others too trifling, I shall content myself with having given a Sample to what a Degree of Degeneracy humane Nature may fink, if not kept up by Religion, and good Sense; for Wickedness and Folly commonly go Hand in Hand. 
CHAP. 
t ijs 1 
CHAP. XV 
A Remarkable Infi'ance Ingratitude; 
H o5 I have already made Mention of my sincere Intentions of being serviceable to those who consulted me 
slelss on any honest or legal Score, and the unkind Returns L foinetimes have met with; yet I cannot refoive to lay down my Pen without relating one little History of an Affair transacted between me and a Person, who, I dare say, will count over many happy Yeats when I am Dull cliid Afnes. The Adventure is this. 
Having made an Appointment with fbme Friends to meet at a Tavern, at a certain Hour, neither the Persuasions of my Wife, nor the Impatience of several Clients, who happened at that Time to be in the House, could prevent my keeping my Word, and, as I was breaking from them all, and had just fet my Foot on the Stairs I was saluted by a grave, old Gentleman in a plain Habit; the Sight of him had more Effect upon me, than all that had been alleged for my staying at Home, and I was compelled, as it were, by an inward Impulse to turn back, and 
know 
[ 159 ] 
know his Business. 1 followed him into the Diningroom, and presenting him a Pen and Ink, he immediately wrote in this Manner. 
SIR, I have heard great Talk of you — -- -- My 
Life was once in great Danger; let me know in what kind. I desire no other Proof of your Skill. 
pie gave me his Gold with his Question, and feojned impatient for my Answer, which I Was not long before I obliged him with in these T erms. 
S I R, You are a Gentleman who have not Jem your native Land for thirty Years or upwards, and having keen Witness of all the Rarities of the Globe, are curious of knowing whether you may reckon the Dumb Man among the Number. As to the Danger of your Life, you had the Misfortune of being poifon ed by the Bite of a Viper, and was cured by a Wizard - - have no mortal Wounds, but 
wear Scars preferr able to a Star and Garter — -- 
I look on you as the Wonder of Mankind, the Glory of your illufrious Family in particular, and the Honour of your Country in general — - — You have fought both by Sea and Land, met with Storms, tern pejls, and unequal Forces, yet never knew what it was to fear. 
The Gentleman had no sooner read this, than he pulled a green Purse out of his Pocket, ' in 
which 
I 160 1 
which was a large Gold Medal fet round with Diamonds, and having shown it me, wrote, 
LET this convince you of the Truth of your Skill, as well as of my Honour, what you say is Fact; I was hit hy a Viper, which mujl have keen my Death according to all humane Probability, for in five Minutes my Leg was [welled bigger than my Body, hut hythe Advice of some Friends, Ifent for a famous Wizard, who hy uttering some mystical Words, immediately cured me. 
After this we had a Bottle of Wine, and while we were drinking it, I had Leisure to examine the Lines of his Face more particularly, and feeing something which promised great Things, I wrote to him in these Terms. 
I LOOK on you with Pleasure: : have nothing of the Rudeness which one might expefl from CI Person who has past so much Time among Infidels — You have acquired all their Knowledge, hut left their Barbarij'm behind you -- -- -- Toil have a good Angel 
which constantly attends you — — preserves you amid ft the most imminent Dangers — but yet you mu ft permit me to reproach you with Cowardice in one 
Thing -- -- you have Twenty thou find Pounds your 
Due from jome great Powers, yet you have not Courage to demand it — -- -- -- -- Me thinks <, all that can 
threaten such an Attempt is a Trifle to what you have 
undergone -- -- Yen have a very good Chance forgetting 
it, hut were there a theufand to one agajnft you, 
C 161 1 
i Honour you ought not to relinquiffj tamely what is 
Jo much your Right — -- -- -- If my Advice may prevail, 
he bold in the Affair -- -- -- You will, I know, meet 
with some Repulses, hut I dare affure you of succes in the End. 
I observed he paused, and Teemed divided Within himself when he read this, but gave me ho direct Answer, and the Conversation between hs took a different Turn. He came, however, almost every Day to visit me, and took an infinite Pleasure in being a Witness of the various Humours of my Confulters; and by what he Taw me do in little Things, grew more com vinced of my Abilities in great Ones ^ and when Xve had been acquainted about a Month, he wrote to me in the following Manner. 
I am enough assured it is in your Rower to effect everything that is in the Power of a Mortal, and would have you make your own Fortune, as well as that of other People. 
T o which I answered, That I never had it in 
my Power to do myself much Service - -..........- 1 
had no sooner wrote this than he immediately resumed * 
Mr. Campbell, you are affiuled with Sickness, and ailing in fopuhlick a Manner as you. do, must needs have drawn on you many enemies— — I am no Stranger to the Struggles you M have 
C i '6% 3 
have to defend yourself against the Barbarity of same People, and that it is not getting Five hundred Pounds per Ann. can preserve you from Ruin, while the Power and Malice of those who labour for your Undoing continue in the same Vigour. I have been thinking on the Twenty thousand Pounds you talked of; it is undoubtedly my Due, and if you will come t an Agreement with me, I will give you one Shilling in the Pound for as many Pound's as I 'shall recover'. 
I presently told him, I would enter into any Meajures which should be for his Good and my own *, and he pursued his Discourse in this Manner i 
IN the first Place, you mu ft gyve me your Advice how to proceed and next, you mu ft take a Trip to Holland: For this last Article I will make you a Present of Two bundled Pounds, whether I get anything or not \ but if I receive the Money, either the whole Sum, or Part, you shall be paid in Proportion •, that is, according to what I offered before, one Shilling in the Pound. 
I made a little Demur at going to Holland because I knew that I should lose more by quitting my Business for so long a Time, besides the Vexation it would give my Clients. But on his telling me, he would desire my Company but six Weeks, I at last agreed, and a Lawyer being sent for, the Writings were drawn, One 
hundred 
[ 16} 1 
hundred Pounds was to be paid me down, and the other I was to receive as soon as I fet Foot 
in Holland. 
Everything being thus fettled, I began to provide myself with travelling Garments, but all on a sudden I found my Friend grow cold; he told me, 'That he could not lay down any Money till our Arrival in Plolland, and that he would have me embark before him, and go directly to Rotterdam where he would follow me in a few Days. This a little vexed me, but though I was dissuaded by several of my Friends from proceeding in this Expedition, yet as my Honour was engaged, I resolved to go through with it, and accordingly did, with a few Guineas in my Pocket, which he had given me for Earned;, and a Bill on a Dealer in Rotterdam. 
What I endured in this Voyage would be too tedious to recite, foi shall only say, that I had my Labour for my Pains, or, according to a silly Custom in Fashion among the Vulgar, was made an April fool of, the Person who had engaged me to take this Pains never meeting me, but, instead of keeping his Appointment, went fbrait to Amjlerdam, and, according to the Advice I had given him, solicited his Affair, and got Ten thousand Pounds paid in a fhorc Time, out of which I never received one Farthing, nor have seen or heard from him since;; an Acquaintance of mine, who happened to M 2 be 
t 164 3 
be his also, having some Business in Holland met him by Chance, and asked him, How he could be Jo ungenerous as to Jend me to Rotterdam, when he went to Amsterdam;; which he gave this malicious Answer, That Mr. Campbell Genius could have informed him where the Person was he came to meet, much better than any Direction. I believe there is no body but what will think this Evasion highly base;; can it be supposed, but that I, who had been able to tell him such particular Things, which he owned were known to no Person in England, and had directed him by what Means he should recover his Money, could easily have foretold, that I should be deceived by the very Person I took so much Pains to serve, had I endeavoured it; but I was too much taken up with other Studies to lay out any Part of my Time on an Adair in which I had no Suspicion and only thought of serving him, while I should have thought how he intended to serve me. be fides, my Agreement and Orders were to go to Rotterdam : I performed my Promise, and it was his Bufinefsto meet me, not mine to go in Search of him. But let his own Rod lash him; the Ungrateful, sooner or later, may find one more ungrateful than themselves, and are punished by the very Crime they have been guilty of — For my Part, tho’ I still have the Articles of Agreement by me, and could presently put them in Force, yet I scorn to do it, leaving him to those secret Stings which he cannot fail to feel, whenever Reflection lets what I have done for him before his Eyes. 
The 
C 16s 1 
The CONCLUSION. 
IF there be anything in this little T reatife which will oblige the Reader, and particularly my fair Confulters, the Glory of it will perpetuate my Memory : I allure them, none has had, and will to the last Moment of my Life continue to have, their Interest more at Heart; and, as I was always an Enemy to Flattery, cannot be suspected to be guilty of it in a Work which is not to see the Light till after my decease;; is contained in it, will, doubtless, gain Belief, and, for that Reason, I am as certain, will be for the Advantage of those whole Good I lhau never cease to wish living and dying. 
There having been formerly published a little Pamphlet, entitled, The Friendly Dmmon, but, I believe, is now very scarce, *, have ordered it to be reprinted with this, because, in the Chapter of the lo^dfione, I have omitted some Things which are contained in that, as also some genuine Letters from my Correspondents. 
I have no other Apology to make for the foregoing Pages, but that they are well meant,, for which Reason I flatter myself they will be well taken, especially by my fair Confulters, this being the last Legacy from him they have been pleased to call their Dumb Oracle. 
M 3 
T FI E 
E 166 J 
THE 
Friendly Damon: 
o R T H E 
Generous Apparition. 
To my anonymous worthy Friend, Physician, Philosopher, whoje Name, for certain Reasons, 1 forbear to mention. 
SIR, 
CANNOT, without great Ingratitude, forget the friendly Visits, and kind Advice, I frequently received from you, during, not only a dangerous but tedious Indisposition, which surprisingly seized me in the Year 1717, and, notwithstanding your extraordinary Care, as well as unquestionable Judgement, continued on me till the latter end of the Year — 25; in 
which 
C i6y ] 
Which long Interval of Time, the Attendance you gave, and the Trouble you gave yourself, abstracted from all Interest, made you truly fen able of my unhappy Condition, and myself e qually apprehensive of the great Obligations I (hall ever be under to so sincere a Friend. 
The first Occasion of my Illness, as I have good Reason to imagine, was a very blocking Surprise, given me by certain Persons, who pretended to be my Friends in a considerable Affair then depending, wherein their Treachery threatened me with succeeding Ruin, had not Providence interposed, and delivered the Oppressed from the cruel Hands of such deceitful Enemies : Upon whose hard Usage, and the News of my Disappointment, I was (truck, at first, with & kind of Epilepsy, and deprived of all my sen fes in an Instant, dropped down in the public Coffeehouse, under violent Agitations, which, it seems, are generally concomitant with this miserable Distemper, •, being luckily abided, • and kindly supported by some Gentlemen, present, I happened to escape those ill confe quences that might, otherwise, have attended me, during the Extremity of my Convulsions, which were reported, by those that held me, to be so strong, as to be almost insupportable, till the pa roxifm declined, which terminated in a cold Sweat, Trembling, and Weeping, and this was the first Attack that ever this terrible Assailant made upon me j tho’, afterwards, he forced him 
M 4 self[ 
[ 3 
leif into a further Familiarity with rqe (much against my Will) nor could your kind Endeavours, by the Art of Physic, backed with my own Strength of Constitution, fright away this evil Companion from me, till my good Genius, by the Direction of Providence, communicated a particular Secret to me, which, with god’s Blelfing, has lately proved my Deliverance, in what Manner, before I conclude, I shall very freely acquaint you, in Hopes you will favour me with your candid Opinion in Answer thereunto. 
Near eight Years was a long Time to continue under the frequent Returns, and uncomfortable Dread of such a shocking Affliction which, upon every little Disorder of Mind, or Disappointment in Business, never failed to visit me; till), by convulsive, or other involuntary Motions in my Head, and other Parts of my Body, my Eyes were buried in their Sockets * my other Features contracted; my Bowels sometimes wrack’d with intolerable Pains, and all the Faculties of my Mind so greatly weakened and impaired, that 1, who, for many Years before, had been adeemed as an Oracle by the mod; polite and curious Part of both Sexes, was now, for want of Strength of Mind, and Ability of Body to employ my Talent, and exercise my Art, as usual, treated like an old Soldier, who had lost his Limbs in the Service of his Country, and thought only worthy, by way of 
Requital 5 
L 169 1 
Requital, to be made a hobbling Pensioner in born starving Hospital;; I thank my Stars, it proved not quite so bad with me, for though some Ladies were too hasty and importunate to bear with the least Disappointment, or admit of any Delay, without showing their refent ment, or refusing to trust their Money till my Convulsions afforded me a rational Interval, wherein I might be able to give them ample Satisfaction : Yet, others, of a more con (tolerate, easy and compassionate Temper, were so highly concerned for my too apparent Indisposition, that, in order to drive out this tormenting Demon that possessed me, they brought me all the old Recipes they could muster up among their crazy Aunts and Grandmothers, practised upon all Occasions in their several Families, perhaps ever since the Time of Galen and Hippocrates *, but, having been long under the Care and Friendship of so able a Physician as yourself, though to little or no Purpose, I could not put Faith enough in old women’s Medicines to receive Benefit thereby founder a kind of Despondency of everything but Providence, I buffered my dif temper to take its own Course, till my Fits increased upon me to at least twenty in a Day, and by their frequent Reiterations, brought, at length, such a Dimness upon my Sight, such a Weakness in my Joints, and Tremor upon my Nerves, that rendered me incapable of all manner of Buftnefs, especially that which I had so long professed, and fuccefsfuljy performed, to 
the 
[ n o ] 
the full Satisfaction and great Astonishment of Thousands;; being now unable to write, and, for want of Speech, having no other Way of communicating my Answers to the Demands of the Ladies and Gentlemen that applied themselves to me, except by Digiration, which they understood not, I was forced, sometimes, when much disordered by my Convulsions, to send them away dissatisfied, which, if it were any Mortification to them, proved a much greater to tnyfelf, because, upon my ready Performances in the Mystery I am Mailer of, depends the Welfare of my whole Family. 
Under these unhappy Circumstances I laboured till the Month of qelober, in the Year -- 24, confined, by my Distemper, to my owe Habitation, not daring to go Abroad, for Fear of falling in the Streets, having been surprised by my Fits in St. James's Park, and. several o there Places i but, about this Time, being possessed with a strong Inclination to the Cold bath, near Sir John Oldcajile's, and the great Desire I had to experience the same, being highly encouraged by your Advice and Approbation, I summoned all the Strength I had to my Assistance, and, pursuant to the Dictates of my own restless Mind, had Recourse thither accordingly, attended by a proper Person to take due Care of me, for fear of the worst. 
I HAD 
[ II ] 
1 had not repeated this cold Expedient above twice or thrice, but I was sensible of the Benefits I received thereby, for my Diftenyper began to treat me with less Severity than usual, and my Fits were succeeded with a greater Defluxion of Tears than what was common before I applied myself to the Bath; so that, after my Weeping was over, I found myself much refreshed., and all my Faculties abundantly more alert, than at any Time they had been flnce my first Illnels, insomuch, that, from a timely Continuance of this external Application, I entertained great Hopes of a perfect Recovery j but, notwithstanding my diligent Prosecution of this sharp and Shivering Method, I was, to my great Sorrow, unhappily difipppointed; for my con vulfions were as frequent, tho’ not so violent, as formerly, and I was now again divested of all Hopes of Relief, except by the Eland of Providence, having nothing to trust to, but that infallible Physician who can cure all Things in an Instant. 
The Despondency I was now under of any Assistance from humane Art, and the (lender Opinion you seemed to entertain of my Recovery, made my Intervals as melancholy as my Fits were troublesome;; with these hard Circumstances, I supported a burdensome Life, and dragg’d on the tedious Hours till the latter end of the Year -25, about which Time, as I was lumbering one Morning in my Bed, 
after 
t 171 3 
after a refilefs Night, my good Genius, or gua? dian angel, clothed in a white Surplice, like a Singing boy, appeared before me, holding a Scrowl, or Label, in his Right hand, whereon the following Words were wrote in large Capitals. 
READ, BELIEVE, AND PRACTICE; THE LOADSTONE SHALL BE TOUR CURE, WITH AN ADDITION OF THE POWDER HERE PRESCRIBED TOU •, BUT KEEP THE LAST AS A SECRET, FOR WITH THAT AND THE MAGNET YOU SHALL RELIEVE NUMBERS IN DISTRESS, AND LIVE TO DO GREATER WONDERS THAN TOU HAVE HITHERTO PERFORMED; THEREFORE BE OF GOOD CHEER, 
TOU HAVE A FRIEND UNKNOWN, WHO IN THE TIME GF TROUBLE, /F/ZZ JVE ver FAIL TOU. 
This comfortable News, though delivered to me after so surprising a Manner, yet was it very welcome to a languishing Person, under a Complication of Misfortunes, notwithstanding, I had a great Struggle with my natural Reason, before I could convince myself of what I was yet confident my very Eyes had seen, or, at least, had been represented to me after an extraordinary Manner, for betwixt really feeing a Vision, or verily believing we do see it, there is but a (lender Difference; however, the entire Confidence I had put in Providence, and the great Defne I had to 
be 
C i73 3 
be relieved, were to me convincing Arguments, beyond all Objection, that my Guardian angel had actually appeared, and communicated to my Eyes the very Scrowl that I had read, the Words of which, left my Memory should have proved treacherous, I entered in my Pocketbook, as they are before recited, the Recipe only excepted; 
H aving thus subjected my Reason to my Senses, or, at least, my Faith, for I either saw, or believed I law, what I have here reported, I had nothing elfe to do, but to put in Practice the Receipt which my good Genius had imparted to me, tho’ how to come at a Loadjione, seemed to me as difficult as to find out the philofopher’s Stone, having but a lender Knowledge of the Thing itself, and much less of its Virtues; however, upon Inquiry, I soon found out a certain Virtuoso, near Moor fields, who is an eminent Dealer in such sort of Curiosities, and, by his Assistance, I presently furniffied myself with what I wanted, and sending for some fat Amber, and a certain Preparation of Steel, which I privately dispensed in a very particular Manner, according to the Recipe communicated by my Genius j then applying both as directed, was miraculously delivered, in a great measure, from those wracking Convulsions which had so long afflicted me and, in less than a month’s Time, my whole Mi. crocofm was restored to such a happy State of Health, Strength and Vivacity, that, Heaven be praised, I could do anything as usual, but, 
if 
[ 174 3 
if I leave cff my Loadflofie for two or three Days, which I have sometimes done, merely out of ca riofity, my Fits, as yet, will remind me of my foolish Presumption and force me to have re courfe to my wonderful Preservative, which has not only proved so great a Friend to myself, but has relieved others in the like Distress, and, as I have found by three or four late Experiments, is as effectual in fuppreffmg Vapours, and removing or preventing Hyfterick Sits in Women, as it is in Epilepsies and Convillfions in our own Sek, either Men or Children. 
Now, Doctor, fmce I have happily conquer’d so stubborn an Enemy, by such miraculous Means as do not fail to assist others as well as myself, I desire you will vouchsafe me your real Sentiments of this uncommon Way of Cure, your Notions of the Genii and the wonderful Manner of commutating the Recipe *, your Thoughts of the Loadstone and the V irtues thereof; your Opinion of Sympathy, and the Cures performed thereby, for I know you are a Philosopher Efficient, as wrell as phyli cian, to give a very good Light into all these Mysteries, in which I own I am to seek;; hope you will condescend sofar as to spend a leisure Flour upon the foregoing Particulars, and you will infinitely oblige, S IR, 
Tour ajjured Friend, and humble Servant 
D UNCAN campbel 
C 17? 3 
Ho wy Deaf and Dumb Friend, .Mr. Dukca n Campbell, ir Answer to his Letter to an •anonymous worthy Friend, Physician and philo fopher. 
SIR, 
I Received your Letter, and read the same with no less Surprise than Satisfaction j for, as I am greatly pleased at your miraculous Recovery, foi am equally astonished at the wonderful Means by which it was obtained: I confess, I have been too great a Student in phy fick and Natural Philosophy, to entertain any extraordinary Opinion of Miracles, no ways accountable to humane Reason, except thole that concern Religion, which are brought down to our Knowledge well attested, and recommended to our Faith by unexceptionable Authorities; not but that I am ready to admit, Hhat the Power of Healing is in the Hand of Providence, and that Jome Patients, when their Diftetnpers, through the Frailty of humane Judgement, derive their Efface from f cbfcure an Original that even puzzles the Physician Then, I say, I am so free to acknowledge, whe the Blefhng of God accompanies the Adtniniftration, Fhat the rnofi trifling Application* 
in 
t 176 1 
in the Eyes of Art, may recover such Perjons from the moji dangerous Infirmities. This I look upon to be your extraordinary Cafe, and therefore think not the M eans to which you ascribe your Cure, or the Manner of the recipes being communicated to you, a proper Subject for a Physical Inquiry, unless you had sent me the prefcrip tion of your Genius, which I uriderftand by your Letter, you are obliged to conceal, and then, perhaps, I Should have been able to have judged, in some Measure, which of the Applications are moult eflentia], the Powder or the jjoadjlone, also, how far your Guardian Angel is a Regular Proficient in the modern Practice of Physic. 
However, as you desire my Opinion of the Genii, the Loadstone, the Powder of Sympathy; and the like; I Shall not be only willing to give you my own Thoughts, but the Sentiments of others, before I take my Leave, who have made the foregoing Particulars their principal Studies.; and are therefore better acquainted with the Nature of Spirits, than I pretend to be. 
A s for the Genii or familiar Spirits, good and bad, believed and reported by the moil Wife and Learned of the Ancients, to attend Mankind) and the varioiis Operations they have had upon humane Minds as well as Bodies, I cannot but confess, feetn very wonderful to my defective Understanding •, yet, when wte observe what innumerable Instances have been handed to us by" 
the 
L 177 1 
the most reputable Authors, both Ancient and Modern, attested from Time to Time by unquestionable Audiorities, who, that, before he dived into these Mysteries, looked upon the same to be Whimsy, can forbear daggering in his opinion?? 
most celebrated Instance of a Genius among the Ancients, is that of Socrates, one of the wisest of the Philosophers in the Age he lived in, and that he had such a familiar Spirit to attend him, which the Greeks called Damon, and the Latins, Genius, is sufficiently testified by three of his Contemporaries, viz. Plato, Xenophon, and Antijlhenes \ also further confirmed by Laertius, Plutarch, Maximus lyrius, Dion, chry fojlomus, Cicero, Apuleius, and Facinas \ besides others more Modern, as, Lertullian, Origen, Clemens Alexandrinus, chut that which is of greater Authority than all the Vouchers aforementioned, is what Socrates says of himself, in plato’s The age, viz. By some divine Lot, I have a certain Demon, which has followed me from my Childhood, as an Oracle *, and this Voice, says he, for folie terms it, whenever it speaks to me, dissuades me from engaging in what I am about to put in Aft ion, but never prompts me to attempt anything. This, I presume, might be the chief Reason why Socrates pursued not his own Inclinations, which were naturally Vicious, as himself confessed to the Physiognomist, but was always accompanied with a divine Spirit that ren 
drained 
F 178 1 
drained him from it *, for, in speaking to Alcibu adesa vicious Nobleman of Athens, but reclaimed by Socrates, says he, My Tutor (meaning the Spirit that attended him) is wiser and better than you. And to show further that what he called his Damon was something more than a secret Impulse of the Mind, or Dictates of a good Conscience, Theocritus affirms in Plutarch, That a Vifipn attended Socrates from his Childhood, going before him, and guiding him in all the Allions of his Life, being a confimt Light to him in such Affairs as lay not within the Reach of human Underfunding» and that the Spirit often spoke to him, divinely governing and inf iring his Intentions. A thousand Instances of the like Nature, I could collect from the Ancients, to prove, that what you have reported to me, in your Letter, may be no delu fion, but real Fact, with all its furpriling cir cumftances, could the Talk be comprised within the Compass of a Letter, but, a Treatise of this Nature, being much fitter for a Volume, I shall only proceed to a few familiar Instances of a more modern Date, that your wonderful Cure may gain Credit with the Public, because I know your Sincerity. 
FRO IS S ARD reports, That in the Time, of Edward III there was a certain Knight in France, called Coraffe, who could tell everything transacted throughout the whole World, in a Day or two at the most, were the Distance never so remote 5 and this he did by an invisible 
In 
£ 3 
Intelligencer or familiar Spirit, which he called Orthone, who was always at his Command, and brought him News continually for many Years, till, at last, he lost the Benefit of so useful a Companion through a vain Desire of gratifying his Curiosity after the following Manner, viz The Knight, having hitherto only heard the Voice of his spiritual Emissary, was now infatuated with an earnest Inclination to behold his Shape, which Favour he requested of Orthone; accordingly, whose Answer was, That thefirft Thing he (hold see on the Morrow Morning., after he was risen from his Bed, Jhoidd he the Object he desired, or Words to that Effect. The Knight, the next Morning, pursuant to the Direction of the Spirit, arose from his Bed, looked about him, but could not discover anything worthy of Remark; upon which Disappointment, he upbraided Orthone with being worse than his Word *, who replied, He had kept his Premise desiring the Knight to remind himself of what he had first observed after his Rising \ Knight, upon Recollection, replied, That hefaw nothing uncommon hut a Couple of Straws tumbling upon the, Ground, and for ting one with another j as if agitated by the Wind; That was I, saith the Spirit and therefore I kept my Word. Then the Knight desired to see him once more, in such a Shape as might induce him, the next Time, to take more no tied of him *, to which the Spirit consented, saying, The first Thing you see on the morrow Mornings after your up riftng, Shall be me again : Accordingly, 
N 2 when 
[ 180 ] 
when the Time appointed was come, and the Knight riferi from his Bed, looking out of his Chamber window, the first Object he espied, was a lean, ill favour’d Sow, so deformed and ugly, that he was not able to abide the Sight of her; and not expecting Orthone to appear to him in so homely a Manner, he fet his Dogs upon the Sow to drive her away, who being highly affronted at such an unfriendly Usage, immediately vanished, to the knight’s great Surprise » and his old Acquaintance Orthone never came near him after. This Relation Froijfard asserts he had from the knight’s own Mouth, with whom he was very intimate. 
From hence I conclude, that the same Sort of Spirit that attended Corajfe, has been always a Friend to you, not only of late, in your miraculous Recovery, but has at all Times afiifted you in writing the Name of Strangers, discovering the most secret Intrigues, and foretelling future Events, for which you have been Famous. As for a further Proof of the Existence of Spirits, and that at some other Times, as well as in’ ypur Cafe, they have prescribed Phyhck to their living Friends, I shall quote an Instance out of Mr. glanvits Reports, attested by the Lord Orrery, the Famous Mr. Greatrix, and many others, living in the Reign of King Charles the Second,; 
A 
t 181 1 
A Gentleman in Ireland, near to the Earl of Orrery's Houle, sending his Butler one Afternoon to a neighbouring Village to buy Cards as he passed a Field, espied a Company in the Middle thereof, sitting round a Table, with several Dishes of good Cheer before them, and moving towards them, they all rose and saluted him, desiring him to sit down and take Part with them; but one of them whispered these Words in his Ear, viz. Do nothing this Company invites you to : Whereupon, he refusing to except of their Kindness, the Table, and all the Dainties it was furnished with, immediately vanished, but the Company fell to Dancing and playing upon diverse musical Instruments: : Butler was a second Time solicited to partake of their diver fions, but would not be prevailed upon to engage himself with them; upon which, they left off their merrymaking and fell to Work, still prefiing the Butler to make one among them, but to no Purpose, •, that, upon his third re fufal, they all vanished and left the Butler alone, who, in a great Consternation, returned Home without the Cards, fell into a Fit as he entered the House, but soon recovering his Senses, related to his Master all that had passed. 
The following Night, one of the Ghostly Company came to his Bedside, and told him, That if he offered to stir out the next Day, he would he carried away j upon whose Advice, he kept 
N 3 within 
C i$z 1 
within till towards the Evening, and having oc calion to make Water, ventured to fet one Foot over the Threshold of the Door, in order to ease himself, which he had no sooner done, but a Rope was cast about his Middle, in the Sight of several standers by, and the poor Man was hurried from the Porch with unaccountable swift nefs, followed by many Persons, but they were not nimble enough to overtake him, till a Horseman, well mounted, happening to meet him upon the Road, and feeing many Followers in pursuit of a Man hurried along in a Rope, without anybody to force him, catched hold of the Cord and Hopped him in his Career, but received, for his Pains, such a Strap upon his Back with one End of the Rope, as almost felled him from his Horse;; being a good Chriitian, he was too strong for the Devil, and recovered the Butler out of the Spirits Clutches, and brought him back to his Friends. 
The Lord Orrery, hearing of these strange Pafiages, for his further Satisfaction of the Truth thereof, sent for the Butler, with Leave of his Matter, to come and continue some Days and Nights at his House, which, in Obedience to his Lordship, the Servant did accordingly, who, after his first night’s Bedding there, reported to the Earl in the Morning, That his Spedlre had again been with him, and ajfured him, that on that very Day he Should be spirited away, in Spite of all the Measures that could pojjibly be taken to prevent 
'■, it. 
C *83 3 
it. Upon which he was conducted into a large Room, with a considerable Number of holy iperfons to defend him from the Aftaults of Satan •, among whom was the famous Stroker of betwitched Person, Mr. Grcatrix, who lived in the Neighbourhood, and knew, as may be presumed, how to deal with the Devil as well as anybody;; several eminent Quality were present in the House, among the rest, two bi jfhops, all waiting the wonderful Evept of this unaccountable Prodigy. 
Till part of the Afternoon was Ipent, the Time Aid away in nothing but Peace and quiet nefs, but, at length, the enchanted Patient was perceived to rise from the Floor without any visible Assistance, whereupon Mr. Greatrix, and another lusty Man, clapped their Arms over his Shoulders, and endeavoured to weigh him dowia with their utmost Strength, but to no Purpose, for the Devil proved too powerful, and, after a hard Struggle on both Sides, made them quit their Hold, and snatching the Butler from them, carried him over their Heads and tofted him in the Air, to and fro, like a Dog in a Blanket; several of the Company running under the poor Wretch to fa, ve him from the Ground, by which Means, when the Spirits Frolic was over, they could not find that in all this hurry feurry, the frighted Butler had received the least Damage, but was left in Statu quo, upon the same Premises, to prove the Devil, a Liar. 
N 4 The 
t 184 ] 
The Goblins, for this Bout, having given over their Pastime, and left their may game to take a little Repose, that he might in some Measure be refreshed against their next Sally, my Lord ordered, the same Night, two of his Servants to lie with him, for fear some Devil or o there should come and catch him napping, notwithstanding which, the Butler told his Lordship the next Morning, That the Spirit had again been with him in the Likeness of a Quack Doctor, and held in his Right hand a wooden Difhfull of grey Liquor, like a Mef of Porridge, at the Sight of which he endeavoured to awake his Bedfellows, but the Speblre told him, his Attempts were fruitless, for that his Companions were enchanted into a deep Sleep, advising him not to be frighted, for he came as a Friend, and was the Jame Spirit that cautioned him in the Field againji complying with the Company he there met, when he was going for the Cards; adding, That if he had not refused to come into their mea fires, he had been for ever miserable;; wondered he had ejcaped the Day before, because he knew there was jo powerful a Combination against him; that for the future there would be no more Attempts of the like Nature; further telling the poor trembling Butler, That he knew he was sadly troubled with two Sorts of Fits, and, therefore, as a Friends he had brought him a Medicine that wo uld cure him of both, beseeching him to take it; but the poor pa tient, who had been scurvily used bythefesort of Doctors, and fearing the Devil might be at 
the 
r 185 ] 
the Bottom of the Cup, would not be prevailed upon to swallow the Dose, which made the Spirit angry; who told him, however, He had a 
Kindness for him, and that if he would hruife the Roots of Plantane without the Leaves, and drink the Juice thereof ', it should certainly cure him of one Sort of his Fits, hut as a punijhment for his obfli nacy in refusing the Liquor, he should carry thg other with him to his Grave i then the spiritual Doctor asked his Patient if he knew him; the Butler answered, No I am, says he, the wandering Ghost of your old Acquaintance John Hobby, who has been dead and buried these jeven Tears; and ever since, for the Wickedness of my Life, have been lified into the Company of those evil Sprits you beheld in the Fields, an hurried up and down in this restless Condition, and doomed to continue in thg same wretched State till the Day of Judgement. Adding, That had you served your Creator in the Days of your Touth, and offered up your Prayers that Morning before you were Jent for the Cards, you had not been treated by the Spirits that tormented you, with so much Rigour and Severity. 
After the Butler had reported these marvellous Passages to my Lord and his Family, the two Bishops, that were present, among other Quality, were thereupon consulted, whether or no it was proper for the Butler to follow the Spirit's Advice, in taking the Plantane Juice for the Cure of his Fits, and whether he had done well or ill, in refusing the liquid Dose which the Spedlre 
would 
L 186 1 
would have given him: The Question, at firs feeined to be a kind of moot Point, but, 'after forpe Struggle in the Debate, their Resolution was, "That the Butler had a died, through the whole Affair, like a good Christian, or it was highly sinful to follow the devil’s Advice in anything, and that no Man floould do Evil that Good ?night come of it; so that, in short, the poor Butler, after his Fatigue, had no Amends for his Trouble, but was denied, by the Bishops, the seeming Benefit that the Spirit intended him. 
I do not introduce this old surprising Story to amuse you, but to let you know, that it is no new Thing for Spectres to turn Doctors to ailing Persons as they retain a Respect for, and that your Genius was not the first Spirit that ever practised Physic;; if this Narrative, reported by Glanvil, Beaumont, and others, may obtain Credit, upon the Authorities of my Lord Orrery, Mr. Greatriif, and diverse Persons, who were in a great Measure eye witnefles of the Matter, I see no Reason I have to doubt the Truth of your Letter, since I know your Integrity j besides, has always been allowed by Rich Daemonologers as have published their Thoughts upon the Visibility of Spirits, that Scotland is never without such a Sort of People as they call second fghted, who have not only the Power of discerning Apparitions, but, by their frequent Converiation with Spirits, foretell future Events, to the great i\.ftonifhment of all Persons that ’ • conc 
187 1 
consult them : That there are filch a Sort of Diviners in the World, especially in Scotland, I am thoroughly convinced; of which Number I take yourself to be one, but how to account for your mysterious Performances, I readily confess, I know not, and therefore (hall submit that Talk to such as are qualified with a more subtle Penetration. 
I doubt I have tired your Patience with too much Prolixity upon familiar Spirits, therefore, to make you amends, I will be but short in my Dissertation upon the Loadstone; which, in the first Place, is a very ponderous Fojfile, found in different Climates, and seems in its Nature and Qualities to be nearly related to Iron Oar, from whence it is endowed with a peculiar Property of drawing to itfelfby the Power of Sympathy, or the natural Disposition it has to embrace that particular Metal. In .Egypt there are large Mines of it, some few Magnets have been found in Ethiopia, which have attracted Iron very forcibly; but two Sorts are dug up at the Foot of the Sardinian Mountains, of such different Natures, that as one draws Iron, the other will repel it, *, as you will find it reported by Johannes Jon (tonus, in his History of Nature; also by Pliny, in h; s Second Book, who, for the aforesaid Reason, calls. this Stone Fheamedes : As to the singular Virtues hitherto discovered in the common Loadstone, the moll admirable of all are the strict Correspondence it maintains with ' • - the 
[ i88 1 
the two Poles, and the wonderful Property it communicates by a Touch to the Needle, for the Benefit of Mariners. The Power of its Attraction is thought by some Virtuosos to be owing to a clammy bituminous Substance, by which the Contexture of the more solid Parts are clofe ]y femented and confirmed *, to prove this, work a Loadstone in the Fire and it shall cast forth a bluish Flame, like that of lighted Brimstone, and so continue till it spends its Life, and loses the Power of Attraction. There is a great dea of Sulphur in Iron as well as in the Loadjione, which is the principal Cause of their sympathi fing with each other, and if you destroy the First in either, the last will fail in course, which is the Reason why the Loadjione will not attract the Ruji of Iron, tho’ it will the Filings, because in the former the bituminous Matter is quite spent, and nothing left but a kind of Caput mortuum. The Loadfime hath also two Poles, which answer thole in the Heavens; if you touch the Needle with the North Pole of the Stone, it will point to thz Artick, if with the South Part thereof, as it flood posited in the Mine, it will point to the Antartick, but not with the utmost Exactness, except it stands in the Meridian : But to be further satisfied in these Mysteries, have Reeourfe to Libavious, Card anus, Pliny, Bodin, Portae our own Philosophical Lranfa Elions, and such Authors as have treated more largely upon this Subject : For, I suppose, all that you want to know of me is, if ever I have heard from others, or discovered 

£ 189 1 
covered by my own Experience, any such phv fical Virtue in the Loadstone, as may tend to the Cure of any Chronical or other Disease incident to human Bodies, that may strengthen the Opinion you seem to entertain of it in such Cafes, from the Benefit yourself has lately received in so extraordinary a Manner. 
In answer to this, I confess, I have heard affirmed (but not by a Physician) "That the Loadstone hath withdrawn the Inflamation, and given Ease in the Gout, and by changing the Application of it from one Side to the other, has at length chased it away, to the perfect Recovery of the Patient, but in any other Cafe, excepting your own, I never heard of a Cure so much as facilitated or attempted to be performed thereby; therefore, as the Ufeofit in any Disease is quite Foreign to the common Practice of Physic, if others, as welf as yourself, have received Benefit by this new Discovery, I think not myself obliged to account for it, till it becomes practical among my own Fraternity, and then it will be time enough for any Physician to give his Thoughts thereon; besides, I am a Stranger to the Preparation prescribed to you by your Genius, and without the Knowledge of that material Secret, it is impoffi for any Physician, in your Cafe, to make a clear Judgement, or to know which of the two your Cure is chiefly owing to, the Powder or the Loadstone,, how far the latter may operate upon a. Body prepared by Pulvis Manis or other Chalybeates, I shall not pretend to determine, 
tho’ 
C ro 1 
tho’; for ought I know, wonderful Cures may be performed in that Way, but upon what rea fon in Nature, such a new System can be founded, seems very remote from my present understanding;; since you are become foie Master of so wonderful a Secret, my Advice is, That you keep the Recipe to yourself in Obedience to your Genius, and though you ajjifi others, never do it without Fee or Reward, for all useful Dijcoveries ought ■to be rendered Profitable. 
In answer to the last Article of your Request, I shall now proceed to say something of Sympathy, and the Cures reported to have been done thereby. The Sytnpathetick Powder, so highly esteemed about a hundred Years since, by Men of Art in this Kingdom, was first bfought into Europe by a religious Carmelite, who, in his Travels thro’ India Persia, and China, had made himself Master of this Secret, and from some of those Eajlern Countries, came over into Tuscany, where he perform’d many considerable Cures ■' by this occult Method, to the great Astonishment of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons in those Parts *, insomuch that the Duke of Tuscany himself was very desirous of becoming Master of this ftirprizing Arcanum, but the honest Friar, by many handsome Excuses brought himself off, and would not be prevailed upon to com muni: : his Nofrum to his Highness 
Some 
£ *9* 3 
Some few Months after this, our famous eng lijh Virtuoso, Sir Kenelm Digby, happening in his Travels, to be at the Grand duke’s Court, an Opportunity fell accidentally in the knight’s way to do the Friar a Service, which the good old Man took so kindly at his Hands, that he recom penced the Courtesy with a Discovery of his Secret; and soon after returning into Persia, left no Man in Europe Mailer of the same but Sir ke nelm, who was the first Person that brought the Recipe into England, and that here wrought Cures by it himself, and recommended it to the Prao tice of others; so that, in a little Time, every Mother midwife and Country Fleabeard, became topping Surgeons, especially for the Cure of Green Wounds; for it is ngt to be trusted to it? other Cafes, 
This Sympathetic Powder, by which many Miracle have been performed at great Distances, is nothing more than the Simple Powder of Roman Vitriol, either chymically prepared, or imperfectly calcined in the Beams of the Sun; from whence, ’tis said, it derives a very balfamick Vir„ tue: A little of this applied to any Instrument that has done Mischief, or to a Pag diped into, or stained with the Blood of a Wound, never fails of curing the Patient at the widest Distance, provided the Wound be curable, 
'Sir 
I 3 
Sir Kenelm Digby, to advance the Credit of this surprising Medicine, speaks very largely in Commendation thereof, in a little Treatise of his, written first in French, upon the same Subject *, wherein he boasts of a remarkable Cure performed by himself, in a moil wonderful Manner, with only the Use of this astonishing Powder *, and, therefore, as in religious Cafes, Example goes beyond Precept, foto convince you of the Miracles performed by Sympathy, Instances, perhaps, may prove more effectual than Arguments •, for which Reason, I shall proceed to furnish you with a notable Experiment of this Magical Powder, and so conclude. 
Mr. James Howel, a trusty Servant to King James I. famous in those Days for compiling a frea tife, entitled Dendrologia, and afterwards for his Legacy to the World, called, Epiflolae Ho elianae, happened, when he was a young Gentleman. to accidentally come by, when two of his dearep Friends were fiercely engaged in a very dangerous Duel, and to prevent further Mi, chief very likely to ensue, too rashly catched hold, with his naked Hand, of his Sword whose Pajfion prompted him to be the most desperate \ which Attempt, the Weapon being drawn through Mr. Howelb Palm, cut the Nerves and Muscles thereof to the very Bone, and, as they were thus Scuffling, holding up the Jame Hand to defend one of his Friends from a Blow upon his Head, received another Cut upon the Back of bis Hand, cross 
all 
C 193 3 
all the Veins and Tendons, more terrible than the former, which, his Friends perceivings put a Judden Stop to their inebrious Fury, run both to embrace him, and express their Sorrow for the unhappy Accident, lending him their Affifiance to bind up his Wounds with his own Garters, and Jo conduced him to his Lodgings, where they sent directly for a Surgeon, who found the Cafe desperate, for he bled abundantly. 
Mr. Howel being a Gentleman much reffected by the Quality, the News of his Misfortune soon reached the Court; and his Majesty having a great Regard for him, sent one of his own Surgeons to attend hin who found the Caje to be so very bad that he seemed doubtful of a Cure, without cutting off his Hand, which occasioned Mr. Howel, about five Hays after the Hurt was received, to apply himself to his good Friend and Neighbour, Sir Kenelm Digby, who, at that time was famous for the Sympathetic Powder, begging his Ajfiftance in that painful Extremity, telling him, That his Surgeons were apprehensive of a Gangrene. 
Sir Kenelm, opening the Wounds, found a ter rible Cafe of it, and a dangerous Inflamation upon the Part, which, Mr. Howel acknowledged, gave him such intolerable Pain as was scarce fiupportable : The Knight asked him, If he had any Bandage with the Blood upon it; Mr. Howel anjwered, Yes * accordingly sent his Servant for the bloody Garter which had first bound up his Wounds, and delivered it to Sir Kenelm, who, calling for a Basin pfwa 
O ter 
C 194 ] 
ter, went into his Clojet for a Handful of his Powder, which he infused therein, and then soaked the Garter in the same Liquor *, whilst Mr. Howel was talking with another Gentleman, at the further End of the Room, not knowing in the leaf what Sir ke nelm was doings who, after he had bathed the gar ter in the Basin about a Minute, called to his pa tient, and ajked him, How he found himself, who answered, So wonderful easy that the Inflamation seems to be totally extinguiihed, the Pain quite gone off, and my Hand I find as cool and as much refreshed as if it was wrapped up in a wet Napkin. Then, replied the Knight, fling off your Draftings, meddle no more with Plasters, only keep your Wounds clean and from the Air, and 1 doubt not, but in a few Days Time, I shall effectually cure you, without putting you to any further Trouble. Much comforted with this ajfu rance, Mr. Howel took a thankful Leave of Sir ke nelrn, and Jo departed. 
Mr. Howel had not been gone above a Quarter of an Hour, before the Knight took the Garter out of the Liquor, to dry it before the Fire, and carelefy hanging it a little too near, the extraordinary Heat, by the Concatination of effluvia’s, had juch an Effect upon the Patient, that he made as many wry Faces as a Cook that had burnt his Fingers : upon which he dfpatched his Servant, with all imaginable Expedition, to let his Doffer know what a Condition he was telapfed into 
Sir 
f S .7 
sirkenelm, whoprefently eonjeffiured the Cdufe of this Dijafter, finding at the Mefjage the Servant had delivered, and Jhatching the Garter from the Fire, told hims, That his Master should be very easy by the Time he could return to him, which the Footman, by the Acknowledgment of his Majier, found to be true accordingly •, Sir Kenelm doing nothing more to work this Change, than cooling the wreaking Garter by a speedy Repetition of his former Application *, so that, without any further Accident inierpofing, the Patient was thoroughly cured, in five or six Days Timeby this extraordinary me thod, to the inexprejfible Admiration of all his ma jeftfs Surgeons. 
SIR, This is all, at present, I am at leifurets say in Answer to your Letter, and, I doubt, you will think it enough too, except more to the Putpofe : What extraordinary Cures you happen to perform by your new Method, I desire you will communicate to me as soon as you can conveniently, for to hear of your Succeis, will be no little Satisfaction to, 
SIR, 
Tour ajfured Friend, and humble Servant, 
O 2 
OR L 
C 190 1 
Original LETTERS 
SENT TO 
Mr. Campbell by his Confulters. 
LETTER I. 
From a Person under great Misfortunes, SIR, 
A M much concerned at the Account you give me of your indif pofition, and with Health and Wealth may join to make you easy: As for myself, though I endeavour all I am able to follow your Prescriptions in Patience, and Resignation to the Will of Heaven, yet, I confess, the Tide of Misfortunes has almost overwhelmed me, and it mull now be a strong and sudden Gale of good Fortune that can preserve me from finking in the Sea of Grief and Confusion, 
i 197 i 
I have, dear Sir, neither so little Fortitude, nor so much Self-love, as not to bear the utmost my cruel Stars, or the more cruel World, can inflict on me, were the Destruction wholly mine; but when I teflect that with my Ruin, that of so 
dear a Friend as C ...n is blended; all that 
We can summon in such Trials, is too weak to support me, and I am ready to call in Question that supreme Justice, which, as you piously remonstrate, is above all humane Comprehension. 
I must own, there is something in the con fcioufnefs of what has rendered that worthy Man unhappy by my ill Conduct and Inadvertency, that is more Ihocking than all the T ortures invented for corporeal Punishment, and I would rather choose to go out of the World'with my Hears broke with Sorrows, than to continue in it, and see him suffer for my sake. 
But you allure me all will be well hi Time, and that I shall yet taste of Happiness 2 You seem certain also, that the good Fortune yourself has long expected, is now near at Hand; I pray Heaven it may be foi wilh yours may show mine the Way; and that nothing hereafter may ruffle a Mind in itself so full of Harmony, and lo inclinable to heal the Wounds of others, and particularly of, 
SIR, 
Tour very fmcere and devoted Servant. 
O 3 LET 
[ 198 3 
LETTER II 
From a Gentleman in the Country. 
SIR, 
O U may remember when 1 was last in 
Town, our Discourse turned chiefly on the 
Intelligence of the invisible World, and that I then asked your Opinion concerning an inter courfe between the embodied Spirits of separated Friends, to which you answered in the Negative, unless in Dreams or Visions, •, did not, at that Time, give you my Reasons for this Question, but being now confirmed in what I before conjectured, I will relate the whole Affair, and doubt not but it will afford you Matter of Speculation. 
The whole Time I continued in London, which I think was three Weeks and two Days, whatever Company I was in, or however employed, I could not put it out of my Head, that my Friend here had entertained a Chimaera of my having left Walton for ever", I thought it highly unreasonable she should imagine so, because the Affair which first brought me to this Part of the Country, being in the same Situation it was, I should have little Regard for myself to leave it, and was expostulating with her in my Mind on so ground less a Suspicion: : I had no sooner arrived, than a few Minutes Conference gave me 
tl^e 
[ *99 1 
the A durance of every Particular my Fancy had represented tq me. 
I must confess, this is a convincing Proof to me, that the Souls of absent Persons meet and inform each other of their respective circum ftances, Desires, and Pafiions *, for to be free? though I never owned so much to any one before, I had an Inclination rather to make up my Affair at any Rate, than return to that mountainous Wild, where 1 live a lavage Life, without anything of my own Specie to converse with, for f look pn the Inhabitants of this Place as but a superior Pegree of Brutes, and, indeed, what elfe can they be justly termed, whose Minds are neither cultivated by Learning or good Manners. 
A s it was therefore Necessity that drove me down, and I had so carefully concealed the Secret in my own Breast, what, but my telltale Spirit could betray it to her? Or what but her’s reveal her Suspicion of it to me? I Should be glad you would bestow a few Moments in Reflection of this abstruse Point, and communicate your deliberate Judgement on it to him, who must, in spite of himself, be for sometime longer a Waltonlan, but always with his belt "Wishes 
Mr. Campbell 
Very humble Servant, 
i 
O 4 LET 
LETTER III 
prom a Lad), who, from the Depth of Misery was Juddenly raijed to Happiness. 
Dear S lit, 
I Should be utterly unworthy the good Fortune which, next to Heaven, is entirely owing to the admirable Lalijman I received from you, if I did not acknowledge it in a Manner suitable to the Obligation The purest Sacrafice springs from the Heart, and you that have foreseen so much of me, as to give me Directions for Happiness, will, doubtless, see mine glows with the most perfect Gratitude 
It is now six Weeks since I have been married and everything has happened in the very Manner you foretold, mrsi, once my triumphant 
Rival, is now the Jest of the whole Country; difpifed by everybody; pitied by hone; and thy Spouse is sofar from having the least Remains of Tenderness for her, that he even hates to hear her Name: As to my Lawsuit, it being tried in Town, I doubt not but yoii have already heard my good Success, but left you should not give me Leave to acquaint you that 1 have recovered the Whole of what I filed for with Damages. We have fenttotownto bespeak a fine Chariot and Equipage which 
when 
I 101 J 
when finished, we shall be there ourselves;; you may depend on feeing me as frequently now 1 have no farther to solicit of you, as when my whole Hope lay on your Care and Skill. 
But as Providence sometimes is pleased to disappoint our best Intentions, I beg, as an Earned: of my future Gratitude, you will accept of Fifty Pounds, which I have ordered Mn //»- — — to pay you on the Sight of this; and believe, that while I have Life, nay, after, if what you lay be true, that the Dead are allowed to hold Com” munication with the Living, I Shall be ever, 
Fnm an old Correspondent. 
Worthy SIR, 
H OI do nothing with greater Pleasure 
than writing to you, yet my Pen flows now with double Readiness, because it has an Opportunity of obliging you, and, at the same Time, a Friend, for whom we both have a very great Esteem 
Dear SIR, 
Tour most obliged 
and sincere Friend. 
LETTER IV 
Either 
I 3 
Either fbme thing very extraordinary has been the Occasion, or Mrs. S— — — — gained the unexpected Character of being Rich; for on Monday Night last, when all the Family were in Bed, I was surprised with a Noise of a pickaxe under my Window; I listened sometime, and being convinced it was more than Imagination rose, and called James, who was the only Man besides myself at that Time in the House, *, fearcl|jng, we found there was a Hole broke in the Wall, almost big enough for a Man to enter: Being lo small a Poffy, we judged it not safe to venture out, and therefore removed the belt of the Goods into the inner Rooms, which we bar ricadoed as well as we could, then putting out the Candles, fet ourselves to watch in my Chamber. Nothing happened till the Clock had struck Three, when we saw the Glimmering of a lant horn at the Breach I mentioned; on which I threw open the Window, and examined with a loaded Mufquet, but unhappily missed the per fon. 
She has been ever since in very great Agitations, imagining this Attempt was not made by a Theif, but by her discarded Suiter Mr. D — -, who, by his Threats and Deporture, gives, indeed, fbme Cause for this Suspicion. She has, however, removed her belt Effects to the Houle of Mr. L — —, who still Continues his Addresses to her, but does not come directly to the Point; 
She 
C 403 ] 
She therefore begs you would compose a Philtef3 if it may be done, to keep his Passion towards her up to the same Degree of Warmth in ab fence, as it seems to be when she is present j and also, that you will consult your Genius for a certain Intelligence, whether the Person who attempted to break into the House, came with an Intent of robbing, or of murdering her, which latter she is allured of if it were really Zh — —; we join in our Entreaties, that you will be as speedy and poffttive as pofhble in your Reply and that you will let us know if we have any farther Attacks to dread from the lame Hand. 
As you are so good to look more on the Intention than on the mere Value of an Offering, she sends you, with her best Respects, a couple of Turkeys, a Ham of her own Drying, and one Guinea, which is all her Ability allows at this Time. Asformyfelf, you are so well convinced of what I would do, had I the Power, that it is utterly needless to add any more than that I am, as ever, 
« -. Tour faithful Friend, 
and humble Servant. 
LET 
r 
L 
2, 04 3 
LETTER V 
Frm a Jew residing at Constantinople. 
SIR, 
GRATITUDE is ever the Token of a noble Soul, and among the many on whom? I bless God, it has been in my Power to confer Obligations, I have found few so ready to acknowledge them as yourself It was, indeed this Opinion of you, which made me first conceive so great an Esteem for you, and th e Confirmation binds me eternally to your Service. But that I may not be found guilty of a Want of that in myself, which I am applauding in you, accept of my very hearty Thanks for your kind Present of the admirable invifime Ink. I allure you, it is of the utmost Service to me among these Barbarians, as you will perceive when, by a fitter Opportunity, I write with it some Adventures which have lately befallen me here. The most perplexing of them I here give you a Hint on, for a Word to the Wife is enough. You may remember you bid me beware of Beauty, especially in the forty fecond Year of my Age; your own Familiar will inform yon the rest, but if he should be employed on more material Affairs, you shall know it from myself in a short Time, with all the News of this City, that I think worthy your Attention 5 till then keep rne 
t io? 1 
in your Memory, and may the God of Juda be your Guide in all Things. I am, without Deceit, 
Tour 7noff affectionate Friend. 
LETTER VI 
From a Lady of diftinclion. 
Mr. Campeel, 
IW A S some Years ago with you, when you told me of a Misfortune I had just then passed over, aud predicted one I was in Danger of falling into about this Time *, you did not mention of what Kind, but it being now arrived will inform you, and entreat your Advice in what Manner I shall proceed. 
The first Effect of my ill Stars was, tofuffer me to fall under thetemptation of a certain Man of Quality, by whom I had a Son, but the Honour of my Lover, and my own Prudence, screened the Matter so well that it was never talked of, nor did my Husband, whom I married soon after, ever suspect anything had happened, j have since had many Children, the Eldest of whom is a Girl of uncommon Beauty, being now fifteen Years of Age. Who should the Malice of my Fate make sensible of her Charms but my own Son, who, unknowing he is so, addresses her for Marriage? She is no less pleased with 
him 
r 2, 0 6 j 
hiyn$ and my Husband wholly satisfied with the Character and Fortune of the young Gentleman (his Father being dead, and having left him Twenty thousand Sounds) resolves it Jfhall be a Match: All that I can say against it avails no" thing, because I can aftign no Reason which appears just. Flelp me, dear Dumb Oracle, in this Extremity •, I tremble at the Thought oflnceft, yet cannot resolve to unravel the Mystery. L you can any way find a Clue to guide me through this Labyrinth, the five Guineas I now send you shall be made an hundred. 
It is gone sofar, that the Marriage articles are ordered to be drawn up, and a week’s Time eompleats my Misery * you have not Skill, or good Nature enough to prevent it, fet your Genius to work then, I beseech you, and let the have an immediate Answer, if you have any Regard for the everlasting Repose of your well wiflier, or would make a fast Friend of, 
Tour humble Servant. 
F. S. Sold your Letter in the Manner I have done this, that nothing of what you write maybe discovered by the Messenger. 
LET[ 
[ : 1 
LETTER VII 
From the same. 
Mr. Campbell, 
I HAVE taken your Advice, and revealed the whole Matter to my Son, but with what con fufion on my Side, and Surprise on his, is easy to imagine: He, notwithstanding, behaved as he ought to do in the Affair, paid me the Duty owing to her that gave him Birth, and promised eternal Secrecy. Soon after he had taken Leave, a Letter came from him to my Spouse, excusing himself for not being able to accomplish his Contract, being, he said, obliged to leave England for many Years, if not for Life; and, I am told, he is now preparing, in reality to Travel. 
Thus am I eased of my moll tormenting Dread, but am Hill in the utmost Sorrow; my poor Girl takes the imaginary Falsehood of her Lover so much to Heart, that I question if Ihe will be able to overcome it: I beg a little of your Assistance in this Alfair also, and I shall never think I can enough repay your Goodness. I have heard something of your Talismans, if you imagine the wearing one of them will be of any Service to her, I desire you will enclose one in your Answer to this, or whatever elfe is in your Power for the Recovery of her Peace shall be 
pur[ 
[ ] 
purchased at any Price, though I experienced the Generosity of your Temper too much to suspect you will exact, or, indeed, alk a sufficient Price from those you honour with your Friendship: leave the Payment therefore to myself, for I would act by Mr. Campbell, as he has done by mecontinue only your Diligence and Secrecy, and depend on everything to serve you in the Power of, 
Tour infinitely obliged Friends 
LETTER VIII 
From a young Lady very much in Love. 
SIR, 
SO many of my Acquaintance having experienced your Skill in telling their Names at first Sight, I think italtogether needless to give you that Trouble, and would much rather you Should employ your Genius in doing something more really to my Advantage than satisfying a foolish Curiosity;; as what I require, [ believe may be done as well without feeing me, as if I were present. I send this to inform you, I have for these three Months been passionately in Love with a certain Gentleman, who never made any ad drefies of that Kind to me : I have made it my Business to dive into the Design of his Visits everywhere, and by all I can hear, judge he has a Heart wholly unengaged. I fancy, therefore, it 
would 
C 209 1 L 
Would be no difficult Thing for you to prepare something for me to give him, that might inspire him with Inclinations conformable to mine : If you can do this, I affure you of twenty gui neas the Moment I perceive the lead: Alteration, to my Advantage, in his Behaviour. 
The Bearer will give you two Guineas by way of Earned:, and you may communicate your Thoughts as freely to her, as to myself. I desire you will not trifle With me, but let me know at once what is to be dole, for be assured, such a Conduct will oblige me to be as much your Friend, as the contrary would make me your Enemy, and that dial! make me capable of being either, as you dial! deserve from, 
Tour unknown humble Servant. 
LETTER IX 
From a Politician; 
SIR, 
Notwithstanding theciviiitie swith 
which you treated me, and which demand my particular Acknowledgments; I cannot forbear letting you know how much I regret that too great Caution in your Behaviour to me. You who see so much into the Dispositions oi Mankind, could riot be ignorant that whatever you 
P had 
[ 116 J 
had communicated to me would have been kep secret. It would be ridiculous, in one of my Character, to become a Blab *, and whatever Use | made of your Instructions, the World fhouid never have been sensible they came from you. 
If, therefore, by your Gift of Second Sight? or any other Intelligence, you foreknow anything concerning the Fate of Europe, which the Knowledge of would be an Advantage to those entrusted with the Management of public Affairs; I cannot find any Reason for concealing it. 
I grant what you say is Truth, 'That Things of this Nature are not proper to be spoken of, but this is in Regard only of the Vulgar, who, wanting Sense to comprehend the Mysteries of true Policy, judge everything according as it appears to their shallow Capacities: Among such indeed, you cannot be too circumspect, but with a Person, who is perfectly acquainted with the Interests of most Courts of Europe, methinks you fhouid have no Reserve. 
In fine, to convince me you have in reality that Esteem for me you profess, you must be more free at our next Meeting, which, if you can get loose from that Circle of fair Visitants, with whom I know your House is almost perpetually filled, I fhouid be glad that it be deferred no longer than tomorrow, about Seven 
in 
f iit 3 
in the Evening, at the Kings arms Tavern, Pall mall. Let me know if I may expect this Favour by my Servant, and conclude me. 
Tour real Friend, 
LETTER X 
From a young Nobleman. 
Dear campbei, 
I Write to you now without any Fear of being discovered: I may now pafs an Evening with you, whenever you have Leisure or Inclination, without being condemned to theneceftlty of a lying Excuse that I have been somewhere elfe : In a Word, the whole Secret is oul My Father suspecting there was something in my Cabinet I would conceal from his Knowledge, broke it open this Morning, and took out all your Letters and Papers that passed between us in Conversation: They contain, it seems, some Secrets in the Family, to which he knew even myself must be a Stranger *, and this has given him so great, and, indeed, so just an Opinion both of your Skill and Candour, that he resolves very soon to consult you himself on a material Affair. He told me, He was Jo far from con demning an Intimacy with you, that he was glad I had contrailed one with a Person Jo very extraordinary, and who was capable of giving me such good Advice 
P 2 
Whax 
L tii 3 
What you wrote concerning Lady R .i — j a little shocked him, and he ordered me to inquire more particularly into that Bufinels, and to know of you, whether there was any poftibility of changing her Resolution or not. I desire, therefore, that you will consult your Familiar about it, and be as punctual as you can in it. I hope the Pleasure of feeing you sometime this Week, when I expect you will have an Answer ready form, who am, 
Unfeignedly yours. 
LETTER XI 
From a Gentleman to whom Mr. Campbell had lent the Book of his Life, and Spy on the Conjurer. 
Bear S IR, 
1 RETURN your Books with Thanks: I af fnre you the Perusal of them has afforded all this Family a great deal of Pleasure, *, I muss beg Pardon both of Juttitia and the Writer of your Life, when I say, that though there are many surprising Narratives contained in both they are infinitely short of what Experience affures me is in your Power. And I am confident, if my Affair, and its Event, which is entirely owing to your Art, had reached the infpection of these Authors, it would have occasioned a larger and 
more 
I *13 3 
more learned Treatise, concerning the Foflibility of such Discernment in a humane'mind. 
But I dare believe these will not be the last Volumes published on the Tranfictipns of a Person who has so deservedly the Esteem and Admiration of the World when I hear of any such Thing on Foot, I shall not scruple relating how greatly I am in the Number of the Obliged; till then, I beg you will accept the more private Acknowledgments of, 
SIR, 
Tour very humble and devoted Servant. 
LETTER XII 
From a new married Lady. 
SIR,, 
AS I consented to marry the Gentleman who is now my Husband, merely on your advising me to do so, and the Warning you gave me of Mr. G —, I think ft my Duty to inform you, that my Preservation from the worst Calamity that can befall a Woman, is wholly owing to your so generously exerting your Art in my Favour. I have this Moment heard from unquestionable Evidence, that that perfidious Wretch has been, not only as you said, under a strict Engagement, but also the lawful Husband of * P 3 another 
I £14 1 
another for more than two Years : But you were cautious not to stretch the Truth, and that happy Caution saved me *, for had you suggested anything beyond my Belief, to his Prejudice, I should have looked on all the rest as Malice. It would have been difficult to have given Credit to his being actually married, because our Families have been so Jong acquainted, and not the least Suspicion of any such Thing in either of them; but without one could see into the Heart, like you, tis impofiible to be afiured who a Person loves, or has addressed, provided the Parties themselves keep it private. 
I confess, he was once very dear to me, and it was not without the extremest Reluctance I tore myself from him; nothing but your Menaces could have made me do it: But I am now happy, and flatter myself, from your Predictions, that I shall continue so. May all, to whom your Advice has been of equambenefit, be always ready to acknowledge the Obligation, and you will then have many assured Friends. I shall rejoice to hear of your Health, and shall take it as no inconftderable Addition to your former Favours that you continue a Correspondence with, 
5 I R, 
Tour mojl obliged Servant 
- • :; \ ■ 
LETI 
*15 3 
LETTER XIII 
From ar Adept 
SIR, 
AS I told you, I could do nothing without the Consent of my Brethren, I no sooner left you than I dispatched Letters to every one of them, and have their Copfent to admit you, as foonas the Death of any one among us shall make Room for so extraordinary a Person. I have already told you our Number was limited to Twelve, and therefore this is all that can be granted. 
I can never sufficiently admire your great Proficiency in this the most abtrufe and occult Science under Heaven, to have attained, without the Assistance of any Learning, those Secrets of Nature, which fb many Thousands have cracked their Brains, and expended their whole Estates in Search of, more testifies you to hold Intelligence with the invisible World, than all the wonderful Things you have foretold; yet, at the same Time shows, that both you and them are under a certain Limitation; otherwise it would be as easy for you to have obtained the Whole as Part. I am satisfied, if ever you are among the Number of the Adepts it will seem surprising to youp 4 that 
i l] ] 
it was necessary you should be perfect in this grand Secret. 
There needed no more to allure me how near you were to the Matter, than your just Ridicule of those Persons who pretend to be Masters of the Philosopher's Stone, yet, at the lame Time, confess themselves ignorant of the quinte(fence, whereas one cannot be had without the other; but this is a Truth which these Smatterers are entirely ignorant of, and I never found acknowledged by any Students in this Art but yourself. 
The Transmutation of Metals is lo trifling a Thing, that I am amazed any wise Man can value himself for it; yet this is what passes on the Vulgar for the philofopher’s Stone, and by this has many a wealthy Person reduced himself to Beggary; and what is to be more lamented, the pernicious Effects of studying, and pretending to this Science, have brought into Contempt, what the real Attainment of, renders Men a kind o( Gods on Earth. 
I shall trouble you no farther at this Time; but willing our three reigning Influences, Sol, Mars and Mercury, may befriend your inquifi tions, and conclude myself, 
Tour very faithful, Sec, 
¥.. 
LET: 
L 217 J 
LETTER XIV 
From a young Gentleman at Cambridge, 
$ !%, 
J^JACHIAVELL tells us, That to be Merciful : * '' to our Enemies, is being Cruel to ourselves j but I have dissented from that great Politician, to follow a Maxim of a latter Date, and, ' instead of revealing the monstrous Imposition put on my Mother by her unjust Steward, have endeavoured to sooth his rugged Nature by Flattery and Sub,, I imagine this has done me confidera ble Service; for my Mother, who acts nothing but by my Directions, has wrote much kinder to me than Ihe was accustomed, while I declared myself averse to this Favourit, and has added Fifty Pounds a Year to my Allowance, 
I am told, however, by some whole Years entitle them to a greater Share of Penetration than myself, that this Reconciliation is but a Feint, to have the better Opportunity of ruining me at once; which makes me entreat the Favour of you, Sir, to consult that never-failing Genius f yours in tl]is Point; and also, whether my Mother will always continue to be so infatuated with his Artifices, to the Prejudice, not only of her Children, but her own Reputation also. I 
wifti 
[ ais 1 
wiffi to Heaven there were a Possibility of bringing her to your House I am certain you would have the Power of convincing her of her Error » but as there is not, we must be content to work by such Means as are allowed us. 
It is needless to make any Apologies to you, who read the Mind, for troubling you so often, and so seldom giving any Proof of my Gratitude : You know my Hands are tied, and, also, that whenever I get them loose, I have the Will to Show, in something more than bare Acknowledgements, the just Sense I have of your repeated fa^ vours a and that I am, 
Tour infinitely obliged, 
and bumble Servant 
P. S. I beg an Answer with ah possible Expe^ ditjon, and directed as usual. 
LETTER XV 
From a Gentleman of the Town, 
SIR, 
AM told, you glory very much in the good Offices you do, in making up Breaches in Families, and reconciling Persons at Variance: I now desire a Proof of this Sweetness of dilpo fition, and, if I find it, ffiall return the Obligation. 
I 119 3 
My Wife, who is of a Temper inclined to Jealousy, has been told of some private Visits I made to a certain Lady, and resolves to consult you on the Truth of it. I confess myself guilty not only of this Charge, but many others of the like Nature, which, I have that Opinion of your Skill as to believe you can inform her of. My Request is, that you will be as filent with your Pen on this Head, as you are on all others with your Tongue : To confirm her Suspicions, much more to let her into Secrets which yet she has no Notion of, would cause an endless Quarrel between us, and serve to make her more unhappy; for though I resolve within myself never to wrong her in this Point again, yet I shall, should she get so much the upper Hand of me, as to be reduced to ask her Pardon, and put it in her Power, whenever she has the Vapours, to reproach me with Injustice. As you are a married Man yourfelfj and know how necessary it is to keep Women in that Subjection they were created for, I flatter myself, you will take this into Consideration, and prevent from being exposed, and made uneasy for Life, 
Tour real, the? unknown, Admirer. 
NET 
120 2 
LETTER XVI 
From a Gentleman at Bombay, 
SIR, 
THIS brings you an Account that I have unfortunately lost that excellent Talisman, to which, under Heaven, I certainly owed my Relief from all those Calamities I laboured under at my first Acquaintance with you, and to entreat you will prepare another, and send it by the first Ship, for I look for nothing but ill luck while I am without one, 
I also beg your Advice concerning my Son John, who is very desirous of going to Sea, and tells me, He has been promised strange Things in a Dream, and that he is sure of being a great Man if he follows that Employment. I own I am very averse to parting with him, but if his Desire be really thelm pulfe of a good Angel, I would not oppose it: I depend on you, dear Sir, to fet me right in this Matter, and as you have so wonderfully railed the Father out of his Troubles, vouchsafe also to direct tie Son. Capt. Though. E — —, who brings this, will pay three Guineas for the Talisman \ I once more conjure you may be sent with all possible Speed. My Wife gives her belt re fpects to you and yours i which, with both our Wishes for your Health and Prosperity, is all that offers at this Time, from, SIR, 
Tour mofl humble Servant. 
LETI 
2, 11 3 
LETTER XVII 
From an old Lady married to a young Man SIR, 
I A M ashamed to approach you after having run headlong into the Ruin your friendly Caution would have saved me from; yet have no other Hope or Dependance in this World but in your Advice; if you will be so good to give it after the Neglect my ill Stars compelled me to use it with. 
But not to keep you in Suspense, in spite of 
all you told me, I was married to Mr. J, 
the Twelfth of lad Month; I wilh to God it had rather been the lad of my Life, that I might not have had Cause to curse my inconsiderate Folly: In short, he is not worth a Groat; but, on the contrary, Debts are every Day coming upon him great Part of my Subdance is already gone, and I doubt not but thewhole will be exhauded in the Payment of them if some Care be not immediately taken to prevent it. But notwithstanding all this, he uses me in the moult barbarous Manner that can be imagined : The fevered: Reflections on my Age are the lead of his Brutality; the lead Answer I make to his Reproaches provokes him to Blows, and, I make no doubt, but he would murder me, if not redrained by the Law. 
I 
[ 222 ] 
1 am satisfied it is in your Power to help me? if you still can think me worthy of the Favour Exert your good Nature, and forget what is past, nothing shall more readily obey your Injunctions for the future, nor return them with more Gratitude. Accept of five Guineas from Judith, and write by her your Mind at full to, 
Tour impatient, and mojl unfortunate, Servant 
LETTER XVIIL 
From a Person of Quality. 
SIP, 
AS none are so wife blit they may be fbme times in an Error, so none ought to think themselves too great to acknowledge it: The first Step towards Amendment, is to confess we have done.amifs, and the Readiness with which I now a Ik Pardon for my Behaviour, will, 1 doubt not, convince you that I am satisfied it was a Fault, and shall no more repeat it. 
The Things you told mefeemcdfo incredible, or if true, so impossible to be known by a third Person, that I am in hope my Excuse was partly made in your Breast;; however you may have condemned me, my Crime has been more my Punishment than, I am confident, the Sweetneis of your Temper would suffer you to wish. 
I N 
[ 4*3 1 
In fine I have found, to my Cofl, every Tittle of your Predictions were not without Foundation and, if having doubted your Skill, has not forfeited all Claim to the Benefit of it, entreat you Would exert yourself once more in advising how to behave in these Emergencies, 
Tour real Convert 
P. S. I shall be at the Place you first faw me at, this Evening, if more material Affairs will permit me the Pleasure of your Company j but let me know by the Bearer 
1 
A N 
APPENDI X 
By Way of 
V I N D I CAT I O N 
O F 
Mr. Duncan 
against 
That groundless Aspersion cast upon him, That he hut pretended to be Deaf and ‘dumb, 
By a Friend of the Deceased. 
LONDON: 
Printed in the Year M. DCC. XXXII 
[ **7 1 
A N 
APPENDIX 
By Way of 
VI ND I CATION 
O F 
Mr. D UNCAN campbel. 
F it be justly accounted dishonourable to speak more of People than we know they deserve, it is like wise foin feme Meaiure, not to correct those that do. Many a Falsity has passed for current Truth, merely for the Want of Contradiction; and to keep Silence at an ill Report, which we are convinced is without Foundation, is to become Partner in the Author's Guilt, and an Assistant !n his Slander. 
This, 
0^2 
L zz 1 
This Consideration has roused me up to lay ibmething in Defence of my old Friend Mr. Campbell in Answer to a scandalous Assertion which was of some Prejudice to his Interest while living, and since his Death, has been revived again in Malice to his Remains *, I mean concerning his being naturally Deaf and Dumb, a Misfortune which has been cruelly and falsely represented as anlmpoiition on the Public. 
But before we proceed to give any Proofs on how little Foundation this idle Story is built, let us consult our own Reason, what Probability there is that a Man should Counterfeit the Want of two such useful andpleafmg Faculties as Speaking and Hearing; and what Advantage could possibly accrue to Mr. ca?npbel from such a Pretence. 
everybody knows that his Gift of Divination, or foretelling Events, was the Consequence of Second Sight, which Faculty, Numbers besides him have been possessed of without being Deaf and Dumb, as there are many whose Misfortune it is to be the latter,, without being Mailer in any Degree of th f firmer: As Second Sight therefore has not the lead Relation to being Deaf and Dumb, how Could it, in the lead, advance either the Profit or Reputation of Mr. Campbell to be accounted so? for on the contrary, tis easy to demondrate that he, being deprived of Speech and Hearing, was. }, of 
C zz$ 3 
of Prejudice to both; to his Intered, by preventing those People who could not write, and were on willing to communicate their Affairs to a third Person from coming to consult him; and to his Reputation, by taking from him the Power of displaying those fine Talents he was Master of to Advantage, and also by drawing on him many Affronts, and rendering him liable to the Ridicule of the unthinking Vulgar. 
It was also a considerable Expense to him, as he was never able to go Abroad either on bufi nefs, or a Party on Pleasure, without taking a Person with him who understood Finger converfition, and served him in the Nature of an Interpreter, and was paid for it accordingly. 
All this is, I think, fufffcient to convince any reasonable Man, that there was little Probability Mr. ca?npbel should counterfeit being Deaf and Dumb; let us now reflect on the Pajfbility of his doing so, for so long a Space of Time, if in Cafe it had really been as much to his Advantage as we have shown it to have been the contrary. 
In the first Place, to be a Proficient in hypo crify requires a Length of Time, and great Experience : Now there are several Persons still living who remember, and knew Mr. Campbell at fourteen Years of Age, and that he was then Deaf and Dumb : Can it be supposed that in those tender Years he could have acquired Artifice 
3 enough 
[ H 3 
enough to carry on a Deception of that Nature? No, he was then, doubtless, as all Youth are, little capable of keeping a Secret, much less inventing and supporting a Contrivance in such a Manner as should deceive the moult penetrating Judgement. Besides, he was not only at that Time, but even to the Day of his Death, one of the most open and undesigning Men on Earth V but as we are now talking only of what is possible to be done, whenever those who so poffi tively affirm Mr. Campbell was an Impostor in this Point, can produce an Instance of any one Man, who for the Space of five and thirty Years (for so long has the qbje6t of our present Discourse been known in this Kingdom) who has carried on the like Deception, in all Humours and in all Circumfcances, and we will then allow that ’tis possible Mr. Campbell might have been guilty of the Crime laid to his Charge. How natural is it for us in any Surprise of Grief, or Joy, or any other Passion, to betray the sudden Emotion of our Souls by bursting into some Exclamation? Who can be always on their Guard on such Occasions?? how much more difficult would it be, when the Brain is over charged with the Vapours arising from strong Liquor, when Discretion is lulled asleep, and even Remembrance is no more, to continue in a Constraint, such as avoiding the Use of Speech must necessarily be? Every one who had the least Acquaintance with ~nir.campbell?, very sensible that there were fewt Men more addicted to Passion, or that 
more 
r 131 3 
more indulged themselves in the Pieafures of the Bottle •, yet, whenever he was overcome by the Excess of either, was he ever heard to utter the lead articulate Sound? No, none that ever knew him will aver it; and if under such Circumstances he could dill retain that Command over himself, it must be looked upon as a much greater Pi odigy than his being able to tell the Name of any Person at first Sight, writing the rnoft private Affairs of those he never saw, curing of Witchcraft, or any of those Wonders of Art which rendered him so justly famous while living, and will preserve his Memory while the Curiosity of knowing future Events has any exift ence in the Minds of Men. 
Oh 1 but they say he did not observe this perpetual Silence : That whenever he was alone he used to throw off all Confer aint, and indulge himself in the Pleajure of hearing his own Accents. And moreover, That he has been heard by Passengers, whom he imagined neither knew nor observed him, frequently talking in the Street, and Park, to his little Girl, a Child of about fevenor eight Tears old. The first of these fine Stories, methinks, carries a manifest Detection of itself, for if he accustomed himself to speak at all, the less able would he have been to forbear it, whenever any of the Circumstances we have mentioned provoked him to it, or to render him forgetful of himself 3 and could he have been guilty of the latter, it Vpuld have im q.4 plied 
C xj* 1 
plied him Fool, as well as Knave, which as yet I never heard anybody fufpeil him for some 
too, not content with giving him the Character of an Impofior, add also that of Coward by pretending, Float they had made him find the life of his longue by the Help of a Cudgel \ but this is a Reflection too palpably gross to merit any Answer, and has been detected by a thousand in fiances in the Behaviour of Mr. Campbell, which are too well known not to render the Repetition superfluous. 
Were it possible to trace these absurd Inventions to their Origin, I am apt to believe we should either find the Authors would re trail what they have laid, or their Characters in the World to be such as none would be willing to depend on the Veracity ofj sofar as to report what they had alleged. 
But what, or whoever they were, the Matter is not much to our present Purpose, *, I think it past all doubt, that none can impartially confider the Reasons laid down in this Defence without being ready to agree, that there was not even a pojjibility, much less a Probability, that Mr. Campbell either could, or would have imposed on the World in the Manner his Enemies have suggested. 
L 233 j 
It is certainly true, that on a first Acquaintance with Mr. Campbell there was some Things to be observed in him which might puzzle ah ordinary Capacity, and render him liable to suf picion without any Mixture of Prejudice or Malice : I mean the prodigious Guess he frequently had at the Purport of any converfa tion which passed in his Presence;; tuning a Violin, and playing on it with great exa&nefs; and many Instances of the like Nature, in which one would imagine the Ear was the only Agent of Information; but when we confider how usual it is for the Almighty Disposer of Nature to make up in one Sense, what he thinks fit to deprive us of in another, nothing of this will appear strange;; Mr. Campbell wanted in the Organs of Speech and Hearing, was abundantly com pen! a ted for in those of his Sight and Touch by thefirft, joined with an uncommon Quickness of appre henlion, he certainly had a wonderful compre henfion of what was said, if he fixed his Eyes on the Person who spoke, and observed the Motion of their Lips; and by the other he could distinguish Sounds, as was evident by putting the Neck of the Violin between his Teeth, and holding it there till he screwed the Pegs to what Pitch he thought fit: The same Method he likewise took to know when his Watch was down. There are Reasons both Chirurgicaland Philojophical for the feeling of Sounds, as may be seen at large in several learned Treatises; and common Experi - 
cnce 
L i 1 
ence may inform us, that a deaf Person, when he sees an Instrument ofmufick touched, will immediately clap the Drum of his Ear to one End of a Stick, and hold the other against a hollow Board and this will enable him to beat Time with as justa Cadence, as if he had the Sense of Hearing in the utmost Perfection. 
This was the Method Mr. Campbell took to bear his Part in the Tunes play’d between the a6ts at the Playhouse, as most of the actors at both Houses, to whom he was perfectly known, can testify, *, does not this in the least imply that he was not Deaf for take away the affift ance of his Stick and Board, and he would have been wholly unmoved at the most exquisite per formance. 
For Proof of this Afiertion I shall give, out of the innumerable ones I could produce, but two Instances, which several Gentlemen of undoubted Credit, and now living, were Witnefies of, and are ready to attest. 
The first happened about some five and twenty Years ago, at which Time, as well as before, Mr. Cample! was a great Frequenter of Mr. Meets’§ Fencing school, as were several other Gentlemen, some of his Scholars then, and others who had learned before, but came to improve themselves under the inftruciions of so excellent a Master in that Art. These Gentlemen formed themselves 
into 
I *3 S ] 
into a Society, and had a Meeting once every Week, laying themselves, in Cafe of Failure, under the Forfeiture of so much Money, which being constantly collected, made an annual Feast, all the Members wereprefent. It was at one of those little merry makings that Mr. Stephen Barnes, a Gentleman of a plentiful Estate, and has now a considerable Place in the curfitor’s of fice, resolved to make an Experiment on Mr. Campbell, and accordingly put a Pistol in his Pocket, which, when he law him busily engaged in Finger converfation with lomeofthe Company that understood that kind of Dialled!:, he ftep’d behind him and let off just at his Ear. I would now ask any one of those zealous Assertors of Mr. Campbell Hearing, whether they think it poftible for him to have refrained Starting, or by some Emotion of Body or Countenance have betrayed his Surprise at so unexpected a Sound? I believe they would arffwer in the Negative, and if so, must allow this to be a sufficient Demon ftration of his being Deaf, for the Accident made nt the least Alteration in him, and he went on with his Discourse totally unconcerned and insensible of it. 
The Second is .much of the same Kind ^ Mr. Charles Manners, a Gentleman nearly related to the illustrious Family of the Dukes of Rutland, lent for him to a Tavern, and under the Pretence of asking his Advice, proposed a Question to him in Writing, on the most difficult and intricate 
t 23 6 3 
tricate Matter he tould invent, and in the midff of Mr. Campbell deepest Specula tion for the ex planation of it, gave the Signal to a Set of Drums, whom he had placed at the Door for that Purpose, to beat a March all at once *, himself keeping his Eyes intently fixed on Mr. cdmpbevs Face, who kill continued writing as he was before, quite unmoved at what, could he have heard, must have occasioned some Alteration in his Countenance, even tho’ he had been never so accustomed to it. 
Whatever Opinion tnefe Gentlemen had before, concerning the Reality of Mr. campbel’s being Deaf and Dumb, they were now perfectly convinced of it, as were several others who made Experiments of the like Nature. 
But if there might pofiibly be some Excuse for those who did not weigh the Unreasonableness of it, for believing him guilty of this Imposition? while he lived, but his Death has taken away all the Shadow of it *, and it would be taking from the King of Terrors, all that is so justly aferibed to him, to imagine his Approach would not have put a Period to a Deception of this Kind. 
I f Mr. Campbell had been snatched suddenly away, it might indeed have left a more plausible Ground for Suspicion, but when he laboured under a Complication of Distempers, and those 
which are accounted the severest Racks that Human 

[ 137 3 
man Nature can sustain, for many Days, 1 may say Weeks, and had his whole Frame distorted with Agonies, such as were expected would die vide the Body from the Soul, long before that Separation happened, were those Moments to be employed in difbmuiation? Would not thole Pangs have forced from him the long hid Secret, which if it had been of Use to him, could now be sono more? To complain is as much the Consequence of any violent Pain, as breathing is of Life, and the greatest Heroes that the World ever produced, have not been able to restrain their Cries in the Tortures of a Fit of the Stone or Stranguary, or Gout, or many other Calamities to which our frail Mortality is incedent. Was Mr. Campbell more than Man? Could he at once repel those dreadful Ideas which the near Prospect of dark Futurity brings with it, and all sen fibility of the most consummate bodily Misery, be unmoved at all he now endured, and the ap prehenfions of what he might endure? Let us dress him in all the Virtues or Vices, of the very best, or word; of Men, and we shall find such a Belief is equally inconsistent with Reason and Experience : The Saints and Martyrs have not passed their. fiery Trial without testifying lome Sense ofprefent Pain; nor have the most harden’d Sinners, when ftandingon the Brink of Eternity, been able to difguile their Horrors of the Future. 
That Mr. Campbell, in his Long sicknefs. was never heard to speak, there might be many Tef 
tiinonial3 
t *38 3 
timonials given, were it a Cause that required it, both by those who attended and watched him, and those who made him frequent Visits, either out of Friendship or Curiosity, being, perhaps, not quite Satisfied before, and naturally concluding that now was the Time to be convinced. 
It is not, therefore, to those who were personally acquainted with him, that I offer these Considerations in his Vindication, not doubting but every unprejudiced Person, who had the same Opportunity, has made the same Use of it as I have done, to be allured that there was not the least Foundation for believing him not Deaf and Diwib in Reality. But it is those who only know him by Report, and consequently were liable to be swayed by the Opinion of such as pretended to give a Character of him, that I would entreat to weigh well the Reasons I have given both for the Improbability and Impojfibility of his having imposed on the World in this Point; and if either they, or those who have inspired them with this Belief, can produce better for the Proof of their Assertion than I have done against it, I shall readily submit; but if otherwise, expect mine may take Place : Or if (which indeed is but a vain Supposition) our Arguments should seem of equal Force, aud the impartial Examiner be divided in his Opinion, I would only recommend one Thing to his confi deration, which is, that both Christian and Moral Doctrine teaches us, that in a dubious Cafe we are to give our Judgement in the moll; favourable 
Mane 
13 9 ^ 
Manner. Besides, Generosity and Humanity oblige us to treat the Absent and the Dead with the utmost Tenderness: : Camfbel is now no more, and it would be the most unnatural Cruelty to brand his Memory with an Imputation of what, while he lived, was, at the belt, only an ill natured Suspicion, and which his long sick nefs and Death confirmed to be entirely grounds 
Having heard that the foregoing Mei 
were about to be printed, I could not forbear asking Leave to subjoin my Sentiments on this Head, being excited thereto merely by that Love of Truth which every honest Man, and Christian ought to make the Standard of his Actions; and if in so doing, I have confuted the malicious and salacious Reasonings of those who were caufelelly his Enemies, or fet right the Opinions of those who gave Credit to such Informations, merely through neglecting the Considerations I have now laid before them, my End will be entirely answered, and I shall think the little Time I have spent in these Pages, coi|id not have been better employed. 
Jess. 
which I know to have been wrote by himfeli, 
FINIS. 


\ 
V 





SINGER men I E ALL COLLECTION 
FC 9. 
| 15; H f # 51 !s) 15 ft 
