  L O VE in Excess;; |
R, THE
FATAL INQUIRY, I
NOVEL ^
. T
L
ft
ftp
PART the Fi R s T.
, ■ ■ __ ^ __________ ' '
-- -- In vain from Fate we fly.
For first or laji, as all must die.
So ’tis as much decreed above.
That first, or last, we all must love,
> • La NS DOWN.'
By Mrs. HAYWOOD., '
The Third Edition Corrested.
:
\.
London : Printed for W. Chetwood, at Catds head ivk
kaffehstreed, Covent-garden, M.dccxxi.
(P RIG E six: shiliidgs.),
; ' s •

I ' ‘
•' ^
love in excess;
OR, THE
Fatal Inquiry.
K
I
PART the First.
-- ^_ ____ - : _ _ _. '. VA
HN the late War between the French arid
the Confederate Armies, these were two Brothers, who had acquir’d a more than ordinary Reputation under the Command of the great and intrepid Luxembourg H. But the Conclusion of the Peace taking away any further Occasions of showing their V alour, the eldeftof’em, whofename; Was Count d’elmont, return’d to Paris, from whence he had been absent two Years, leaving his Brother at St. omer’s, still the Cure of; some slight Wounds were perfe(sted.
»
The Same of the Count's brave Adiions af -- riv’d before him, and he had the satisfaction of > being receiv’d by the k1 n G and Court, after t a Manner that might gratify the Ambition of the
B proudest

proudest. The Beauty of his Person, the Gaity
nf his Air, and the unequal’d Charms of his Conversation, made, him the Admiration of both Sexes; and whilst those of his own strove whi'chs shou’d gain the largest share in his Friendship; the other, vented fruitiest Wishes, and in Secret, ciirss'd that Custom which forbids Women to make a p^claration of their Thoughts. Amongst the Number of these, was Ah oar i s A, a Lady Descended (by the Fatiierst Side) from the Noble Family of the D.D. a T o n r s formerly Lord of B e xj 3 e y, and (by her Mothers) from the equally Illustrious House of M o N T m o R e n C y. The late Death of her Parents had left her Cost eiress (xvith her Sister,) of a vast Estate.
A L o 1 s A, if her Passion was not greater tharr the rest, her Pride, and the good Opinion she had of herself made her the less able to Support it; she sigh’d, she burned, she rag’d, when she perceiv’d the Charming D’ E L m o n T behav’d Simfelf toward her with no mark of a Distinguishing astestion. What (Said she) have I beheld without Concern a thousand Lovers at my Feet, and shall the only Man I ever endeavour’d or wish’d to Charm, regard me with indifference Wherefore has the agreeing World joyn’d with my Deceitful Glast to flatter me into a vain belief I had invincible Attradlions ?' d’elmont Sees ’em not, D’ E L M o N T is insensible. Then wou’d she fall into Ravings, shmetimes curling her dwn want of Power, Sometimes the coldness of d’el mont.. Many Days she pafs’d in these Inquietudes, and every time she Saw him (which was very frequently either at Court, at Church, or public Meetings, Site found fresh Matter
for
; 'i .'1^’

for her troubled Thoughts to work upon :
When on any occasion he happen’d to speak to her, it was with that softness in his Eyes, and, that engaging tenderness in his Voice, as would half persuade her that, that God had touch’d his Heart, which so. powerfully had in stuenc’d hers; but if a glimmering of fiich a hope gave her a Pleasure inconceivable, how great were the ensuing Torments, when She obferv’d, tliofe, Looks and Accents were but the Effects of his natural Complaisance, and that to whom soever he Addressed, he carried an equality in his Behaviour, which sufficiently evinc’d his Hour was not yet come to feel those Pains he gave; and if the. afflicted fair ones found any Consolation, it was in the refledbion that no Triumphant Rival could boast a Conquest; each now defpair’d of gaining. But the impatient A L o V isa disdaining to be ranked with those, whom her Vanitymade her confider as infinitely her Inferio: s, suffer’d her self to be agitated almost to Madness between
the two Extremes of Love and Indignation a
thousand Chimaeras came into her Head, and sometimes prompted her to discover the Sentiments she had in his favour : But these Resolutions were rejected, almost as soon as form’d, and stie could hot fix on any for a long time; till at last, Love (ingenious in Invention,) infpir’d her with one, which probably might let her into the Secrets of his Heart, without the ffiame of revealing her own.
The Celebration of Madam the Duchess of burgundy’s birthday being to be solemniz’d wish great Magnificence, she writ this Billet to him on the Night before.
B 2 To
  r • Off
I
k
To Count d’e lm6nt,
I
Res ISTLESS as you are in War, you are much
more foin Love : Here you Conquer without making an Attack, and we Surrender before you Summons; the Law oj Arms obliges you to stow Mercy to an yielding Enemy, and sure the Court cannot inspire less generous Sentiments than thc Field. The little God lays down his Arrows at your Feet, confefr fes your superior Power, and begs a friendly Treatment, he will appear to you tomorrow Night at the Ball, intheeyesof the moji pajjionate oj all his vo terejfes; search therefore j'or him in Her, in whom (amongf that bright Assembly) you would most defre to find Him I am confident you have to much pene • t rat ion to miss of him, if not byafs'd by a former in (liitation, and hi that Hope, I ft^au, as patiently as wy Expectations will let me) support till theyi, the tedious Hours.
Farewell.
This stie sent by a Trusty Servant, and so difguis’d, that it was impolfible for him to be known with a stri(st Charge to deliver it to the count’s own Hands, and come away before he had read it; the Fellow perform’d her Orders exaffly, and when the Count who was not a little furpriz’d at the first opening it, ask’d for the Messenger, and commanded he shop’d be stay’d; his Gentleman (who then was waiting in his.dhamber,) told him he ran downstairs with ^11 the speed imaginable, immediately on his lordship’s receiving it.
D’ lemont having never experience the force of L pve, could not presently comprehend the Truth " ■ ‘ of
I. /
%
  te
of this Adventure; at first he imagiiyd some of his Companions had caus’d this Letter so be writ, there to found his Inclinations, or stpbraid his uttle disposition to Gallantry; but/thefe Cogitations fcon gave place to others; and tho’ he was not very vain, yet he found it no difficulty to persuade himself to an Opinion that it was possibly for a Lady to distinguish hjin front other ' Men. Nor did he find any thin sh pleasing in that Thought as might make him endeavour to repel it; the more he confider’d his own Perfections, the more he was confirmed in his belief, but who to fix it on, he was at a loss as much as ever; he then began to rested: on all the Dishourfes and little Railleries that had pass’d between him and the Ladies whom he had convers’d with since his arri val, but cou’d find nothing in any of ’em of Consequence enough to make him guess at the Pershn.
He spent great part of the Night in Thoughts very disterent from those he was accustom’d to, the Joy which naturally rises from the Knowledge ’tis in ones pow’r to give it, gave him Notions which till then he was a Stranger to; he began to confider a Mistress as an agreeable as well as fashionable amushment, and refolv’d not to be Cruel.
I N the mean time poor Alovisa was in all the anxiety imaginable, she counted every Hour, and thought ’em Ages, and at the first dawn of Day she rose, and calling up her Women, who were, amaz’d to find her so uneasy, she employ’d ’em in placing her Jewels on her Clothes to the best Advantage, while She consulted her Glass after what Manner she should Dress, her Eyes, the gay, the laguishing, the shdate, the commanding, the beseeching Air were put on, a
thousand!
!
\
  • Off
thousand timesj and as often rejected •, and she had scarce determin’d which to make use of, when her Page brought her word, slime Ladies who were going to Court defir’dher to Accompany them -, she was too impatient not to be whiling to be one of the first:, so went first, immediately, arm’d with all her Lightnings, but full of unsettled Refie(3; ions. She had not been long in the Drawing-room, before it grew very full of Company, but D’ e l mont not being amongst ’em, she had her Eye fix’d towards the Door, expelling every Moment to see him enter; but how imposhble is it to represent her Coiifufion, when he appear’d, leading the young A m e n a, Daughter to Monsieur San vfeverin, a Gentleman, who tho’ he had a very. small Estate, and many Children, had by a partial Indulgence, too common among Parents, neglecting the rest, maintain’d this Darling of his Heart in all the pomp of Quality — The Beauty and Sweetness of this Lady was present Death to A L o V I s a’s Hopes; She saw, or fancy’d She saw an unusual joy in her Eyes, and dying Love in his; Disdain, Despair, and Jealousy at once crowded into her Heart, and fwell’d her almost to bursting; and stwas no winder that the violence of such terrible Emotions kept her from regarding the Discourses of those stood by her, or the. Devoirs that D’ e L m o n t made as he pafs’d by, and at length threw her into a Swoon; the Ladies ran to her ashstance, and her charming Rival, being one of her particular Acquaintance, shew’d and extraordinary ashduity in applying Means for her relief; they made what hast they cou’d to get her into another Room, and unfasten her Robe, but were a great while before there could bring her to herself; and when they did, she shame of having been so diforder’d in such
an
  f
I
an Assembly, and the fears of their furpechug the Occasion, added to her former Agonies, and rack’d her with most terrible revulfions, every one now difpairing of her being able to assist at that night’s Entertainment, she was put into her Chair, in order to be carry’d Home, Amena who little thought how unwelcome she was grown, would needs have one cah’d, and accoinpany’d her thither in spite of the Entreaties of d’elmont, who had before engag’d her for his Partner in Dancing; not that he was in Love with her, or at that time believ’d he cou’d be touch’d with a Passion which he esteem’d a Trifle in it self, and below the dignity of a Man of Sense;; Fortune (to whom this Lady no less enamour’d than Alovisa) had made a thousand Invocations, feem’d to have allotted her the glory of his first Addresses, •, was getting out of her Chariot just as he alighted from his, and offering her his Hand, he perceiv’d hers trembled, which engaging him to look upon her more earnestly than he was wont he immediately fancy’d he saw shmething of that languishment in her Eyes, which the obliging mandate had defcrib’d. Amena was too lovely too make that belief difagteeable, and he reshlv’d on the beginnings of an Armour, without giving himshlf the trouble of considering the Consequences;; Evening being extremely pleasant, he ask’d if she wou’d not favour him sh far as to take a turn or two with him in the Palace Garden, She who defir’d nothshg more than shch a particular Conversation, was not at all backward of complying; he talk’d to her there for sometime in a manner as could leave her no room to doubt he was entirely charm’d, and ’twas the air such an
Enter
8 Love in Excefr * Or,
Entertainment had left on both their Faces, as
_ \ __________________
produc’d those lad effedts in the jealous aloti sa. She was no sooner led to her Apartment, but she dessr’d to be put So Bed, and the good natur’d Amen a,, who really had a very great kindness for her, offer’d to quit the Diverssonsof the Ball, and stay with her all Night *, but unfortunate Alovisa was not in a Condition to endure the presence of any, especially her, sh put her off as civilly sher Anxiety would give her leave, choosing rather to suffer her return to the Ball, than retain sh hateful an Object (as she was now become) in her sight ♦ and ’tis likely the other was not much troubled at her Refusal. But how, (when left alone, and abandon’d to the whirlwinds of her Passion)) desperate Alovisa behaved, none but thosh, who like her, have burn’d in hopeless Fires can guess, the most: lively Description wou’d come far short of what she felt;; she rav’d. Site tore her Hair and Face, and in the extremity of her Anguish was ready to lay violent Hands on her own Life. In this Tempest: of Mind, she continu’d for sometime, ’till at length rage beginning to dishpate it self in Tears, made wav for cooler confiderations i and her natural
^ J
Vanity refiiming its Empire in her Soul, was of no little Service to her on this Occasion. Why am I thus disturb’d? mean Spirited as I am 1 said she, d’e L m o N T is ignorant of the Sentiments I am pofiess’d with in his Savour •, and perhaps ’tis only want of Encouragement tffat has so long depriv’d me of my Lover; my Letter bore no certain mark by which he might distinguish me, and who knows what Arts that Creature inight make ush of to allure him. I will theresore (purfifd she with a more cheerful Countenance) shre<st his erring
'
4
• ' •**'•* ' •
  ^
I * • - '
t » • ' /
ring Search. As she wain this Thought (happily for her, who elfe might have relaps’d) her Women who were waiting in the next Room, came.in to know if she wanted anything; yes, answer’d ihe, with a Voice and Eyes wholly chang’d. i’ll rise, one of you help, me on with my Clothes, and let the other send Ch i. r L o to me, I have instant Business with him. ’twas in vain for ’em to represent to her the prejudice it might be to her Health to get out of her Bed at so unfeashnable an Hour, it being then just Midnight: They knew her too abshlute a Mistress not to be obey’d, and executed her Commands, without disputing the Reason. She was no sooner ready, than C h a ri o wais introduc’d, who being the same Person that carry’d the Letter to d’e lmont, guefs’d what Affair he was to be concern’d in, dnd shut the Door after him,. I coinmriid your Cautioff ssid his Lady, for what I am now going to trust you with, is of more concernifient than rny Life. The Fellow bow’d, and triade a thousand protestations of an eternal Fidelity., I doubt it not,, refum'd she, go then immediately to the coh/'t, ’tis not impoifible but in this hurry you may get into the Drawing-room; But if not, make fbmq pretence to stay as near it as you can ’till the Ball be over, listen carefully to all Discourses where you hqar Count d’elmont mention’d, inquire who he Dances with, and above all, watch what Company he comes out with, and bring me an exa£t Account, Go, continu’d fly hastily, these are all the Orders I have for you tonight, .but tomorrow I shall employ you farther. Theti turning to her Efcritore, she sat stow; n, and begsh to prepare a second Letter, .which she hop’d wou’d be more lucky than the former. She was mot
G long
k
TO   * Off
long writing, Love, and Wit, suggested a World of lialiionate and agreeable Exprelstons to her in a Moment; but when She hadstnilh’d this lb full a Discovery of her Heart, and was about to stgn her Name to it; not all that Paifion which had infpir’d ber with a resolution to scruple nothing that might advance the compairing her Wishes, nor the vanity, which astur’d her of Success, were forcible enough to withstand the shock it gave her Pride; No, let me rather die! said she (starting up and frighted at her own Designs) than be guilty of a meanness which wou’d render me unworthy of Life, Oh Heavens! to offer Love, and poorly sue for Pity! his insupportable! What bewitch’d me to harbour such a Thought as even the vilest of my Sex wou’d blush at? To pieces then (added she tearing the Paper to pieces') with this lliame full witness of my Folly, my furious Desires may be the clestrudhon of my Peace, but never of my Honour, that stiall still attend my Name when Love and Life are fled. She continu’d in this Temper (without being able to compose herself to rest) till Day began to appear, and Charlo returned with News which confirmed her most dreaded Suspicions. He told her that he had gain’d admittance to the Drawing-room several Times, under pretence of delivering Messages to slime of the Ladies; that the whole Talk among ’em was, that d’elmont was; no longer insensible of Beauty *, that he obshrv’d that Gentleman in very particular Conference with Amena, and that he waited on her Home in his Chariot, her own not being in the \yay. I know it, said Alovisa (walking about in a dishr der’d Motion) I did not doubt but that I was undone, and to my other Miseries, have that of being

 1
ing aiding to my rival’s Happiness: Whatever his Dessres were, he carefully conceal’d ’em^ ’till my curled Letter prompted a Discovery; tenacious as I was, and too, too confident of this little Beauty! Here she hop’d, and wiping away some Tears which in spite of her ran down her Cheeks, gaye Charlo leave to ask if she had any more
Commands for him. Yes (answer’d she/i will
write'once more to this undefcerning Man, and let him know,, stis not Amena that is worthy of him; that I may do without prejudicing my Fame, and’twill be at least some eaferaent to my Mind, to undeceive the Opinion he may have conceiv’d of her Wit, for I am almost confident she passes for the Authoress of those Lines which have been so fatal to me; in Speaking this, without any further Thought, she once more took her
Pen, and Wrote these Words,
*
r
/
To Count d’elmont,
m
%
>
IF Ambition he a Fault, ’tis only in those who have not a fufficie7tt Itock of Merit to support it too 7nuch Humility is a greater in you, whose Person and ^lalities are too admirable; iot to render any Attempt yon fall make jiiftifahle, as well as successful. Heaven when it dijlinguift’d you in so particular a Manlier from the rest of Mankind, defgn d you not for vulgar Conqttejis, and you cannot without a manifef contradibion to its Will, and an irreparable Injury to your self, make a present of that
C 2 Heart
  • Off
Heart te Amena, when one, of at leaf an equal Beauty, and far fiiperiof in every other confdera tiim, would facrifce all to purchase td.e glorious Trophy r continue theyi no longer in a wilful igno ranee, aim at d. more exalted sight, and you will fnd it no difficulty to discover who fie is that ian guiftes, and, dlmof dies for an Opportunity of confessing (without too great a breach of Modefy) that her soul and dll the Faculties of it, are, and mvf ^
7 : C V > ■;;..
be '
. Eternally Yours.
I
■■ .5#
1
> ... -
This she gave to Charlo, to deliver with the fame' Caution as the former; but he was scarce got out of the House before a new Fear assaulted lier, and she repented her uncircumfpe istion.what have I done, cry’d she! Who knows but d’elmont may show these Letters to Amena, she is perfestly acquainted with my Hand, and I shall be the most expos’d and wretched Woman, in the World. Thus Industrious was she in forming Notions to Torihent herself; nor indeed was there anything of improbability in this conje sture. ' There are too many j^ungerierous enough to boast shch an Adventure; but d’elmont tho’ he would have given good part of his Estate to satisfy his curiofit^r, yet chose rather to remain in a perpetual Ignorance, than make use of ■ ■ any Means that might be difadvantagious to the ' Ladies Reputation. He now perceiv’d his Mistake; and that it was hot Amena who hstd taken that Method to engage him, and poshbly was not disgusted to find she had a Rival of shch Merit, as the Letter intimated. However he had Said too‘ many fine Things to her to be lost, and thought if as inconsistent with his Honours Inclination to
’ ■ • desist
y
s

•;
desist a pursuit in wshich he, had all the Reason in the World to affure himself of Yistory; for the young Amena (little vers’d in the Art of Dif simulation, so'necessary sh her Sex) cou’d not conceal the pleasure she took in his Addresses, and without even a seeming relustancy had given him a promise of meeting him the next Day in the, tnhlenes, nor cou’d all his unknown Mistress had' writ, persuade him to miss this Assignation, nor let that be succeeded with anoflier, and that by a third, and soon, ’till by making a show of Tenderness; he began to fancy himself really touch’d with a Passion he only dessgn’d to represent. ’tis certain this way of Fooling rais’d Dessres in him little different from what is commonly call’d Love; and made him redouble his Attacks in Such a Manner, as Amena stood in need of all her Yertiie to ressfl:; but as much as she thought herself oblig’d to resent such Attempts, yet he knew fb well how to excuse himself, and lay the blame on the violence of his Paifion, that he was still tco Charming, and too Dear to her not to be forgiven. Thus was Amena (by her too generous and open Temper) brought to the very brink of Ruin, and d’elmont was possibly contriving Means, to complete it, when her Page brought him this Letter.
3
%
♦ IG
<
1  • Off
^ •
To Count d’elmont.
SCOME majiciovs Persons have endeavour d to make the little Conversation I have had with yon, appear as Criminal -, therefore to put a Jiop to all such Af persons, I muf for the future deny myself the Honour oj your Vifts, unless Cotmnanded to receive’em hy my Father,. who ojtly hqs the Power of Disposing of
Amena.,
L
T H E Consternation he was in at the reading these Lines, so very different from dier former Behaviour, is more easily imagin’d shan exprefs’d, ’till casting his Eyes on the Ground, he saw ^ Note, which in the opening of this, had fallen out of it, which he hastily took up, and found it contain’d these Words.
I guess the surprise my lovely Friend is in. hut have not Time now to unriddle the Myjiery; / heg you will be at your Lodgings towards the Evejiing, and. I will invent a Way to fejtd to you.
9
’twas now that d’elmont began to find there were Embarrafements in an Intriegue of this. Nature, which he had not foreseen, and stay’d at Home all Day, impatiently expessing the clearing of an Affair which at present feem’d so ambiguous. When it grew a little Duskifli, his. Gentleman brought in a young ‘woman, whom he immediately knew to be Anaret, an Attendant on Amena; and when he had. made
* ' her
  t ^
her lit down, told her he hop’d she was come to make an Eclaircifment, which would be very obliging to him, and therefore deiir’d she wou’d not defer it.
M Y Lord, said she, ’tis with an unst^eakable Trouble I discharge that Trust my Ladjr has re jiios’d ill me, in giving you a Relation of her Miss fortunes •, but not to keep you longer in fuss pence, which I perceive is very uneasy to you. I shall acquaint you, that shon after you were gone, my Lady came up into her Chamber, where as I was preparing to undress her, we heard Monsieur Sanseverin in an angry Tone ask where his Daughter was, and being told she was above, we immediately Saw him enter, with a Countenance so inflam’d, as put us both in a mortal Api prehension. An ill use (laid he to her) have yon made of my Indulgence, and the Liberty I have allow’d you I Could neither the Considerations of the Honour of your Family, your own Reputation, nor my eternal Repose, deter you from such imprudent Astions, as you cannot be ignorant must be the inevitable Ruin of ’em all. My poor Lady was too much shrpriz’d at these cruel "Words, to be able to make any Answer to’em, and stood trembling, and almost fainting, while he went on with his Discourse. Was it consistent with the Niceties of your Sex, said he, or with the Duty you owe me, to receive the Addresses of a Person whose Pretensions I was a Stranger to? If the Count d’elmcnt has any that are Honourable, wherefore are they conceal’d? The Count d’elmont! ('cry’d my Lady, more frighted than before) never made any Declarations to me worthy of your Knowledge, nor
did
is   fi Off
did I ever entertain him otherwise, than might become your Daughter. ’tis false (interrupted he furioufiy) I am but too well ihforni’d of the contrary; nor has the moss private of your shairie full Meeting efcap’d my earh Judge, Sir, in what a confusion my Lady was in at this Discourse ^ ih vain, file muster’d all her cou rage to persuade, him from giving Credit td an Intelligence so injurious to her • he grew the more enrag’d, * and after a thousand Reproaches, flung out of, the Room with all the Marks of a iriost violent Indignation. But though your lord ship is too well acquainted with the Mildness of Amejia’s Disposition, not to believe she could bear the Difpleashre of a Father (who had always iiioss tenderly lov’d her), with inssiffereiice; yet ’tis impolfible for you to imagine in what an excess of Sorrow she was plung’d, she found every passage of her ill Condiidt (as she was pleas’d to call it) Was betray’d, and did not doubt but whoever had done her that ill Office to her Father, ' wou’d take care the Discovery should not be con fin’d to him alone. Grief, Fear, Remorse, and Shame by turns assaulted her, and made her incapable of Conshlation 5 even the shft Pleas of Love were filenc’d sty their Tumultuous Clamours, and for a Time she corifider’d your lord ship in no other view than that' of her tjndoef.. How! cry’d, d’elmcnt (interrupting her j cou’d my Amena, wdio I thought all fv/eetness judge so harshly 6s me. oji! my Lord, reshnj’d Anaret, you must forgive those firss Emotions, which as violent as they were, wanted but your Presence to dilfipate in a Moment; hnd if your Idea had not presently that Power, it losh 110 Honour by having Foes to struggle with, fineq
at
I •
The Fatal Enquiryi i f
at last it put ’em all to flight, and gain’d sh entire a Vistory, that before Morning, of all her Troubles, scarce any but the fears of loling yoii remain’d. And 1 must take the Liberty to affure your Lordship, my Endeavours were not wanting to establish a reshlution in her to despise every thiiig for Love and you. But to be as brief as I can in my Relation; the Night was no shoner gone, than Monsieur her Father came into the Chamber; with a Countenance, tho’ more compos’d than that with which he lest us, yet with such an Heir of Austerity, as made my timorous Lady losh most of the Spirit fly had aflum’d for this Encounter. I come not now Amena, laid,
he, to upbraid or punish your Dishbedience, if you are not wholly abandon’d by your Reason, your own Reflestions will be fushcientlv your Tormentors. But to put you in a way, (if not to, clear your Fame, yet to take away all occasion of future Calumny,) you liiust write to Count D’ e l m o N t.
I
W ' » r ^.
IL L have no Denials continu’d he, (feeing her about to speak) and leading her to her escritore, constrain’d her to write what he distated, and you receiv’d; just as she was going to Seal it, a Servant brought word that a Gentleman defir’d to speak with Monsieur Sanseverin, he was o blig’d to step into another Room, and that ab shnce gave her an opportunity of writing a Note, which file dextrously flip’d into the Letter, unperceiv’d by her Father qt his return, who little fufpesting what she had done, sentit away immediately. Now, said he, we shall be able to judge of the sincerity of the count’s Astestions, but till then I shall take care to prove myself a Perd
shri
is   Off
»■ ' <
soil not disinterested in the Honour of my Family. As he spoke these words, he took her hythe Hand, and conduchng her thro’ his own into a little Chamber (which he had order’d to be made ready for that purpose) Shut her into it; ‘ I follow’d to the Door, and seconded my Lady in her Desires, that I might be permitted to attend her there; but all in vain, he told me, he doubted not but that I had been her Confident in this Affair, and order’d me to quit his House in a few Days. As soon as he was gone out, I went into the Garden, and saunter’d up and down a good while, hoping to get an Opportunity of stieaking to my Lady through the Window, for I knew there was one that look’d into it; but not feeing her,
I bethought me of getting a little Stick, with which I knock’d gently against the Glass, and engag’d her to open it. As soon as shes perceiv’d mea Beam of Joy brightn’d in her Eyes, and glisten’d thro’ her Tears. Dear Anaret, said Ihe, how kindly do I take this proof of thy Affestion, ’tis only in thy Power to alleviate my Misfortunes, and thou I know art come to offer thy Assistance. Then after I had affur’d her of my willingness to serve her in any command, she defir’d me so wait on you with an account of all had happen’d, and to give you her Yows of an eternal Love. My Eyes, said she weeping, perhaps may ne’er behold him more, but Imagination shall Supply that Want, and from my Heart he never shall be Absent. Oh 1 do not talk thus, cry’ct the Cmtnt, extremely touch’d at this Dif comfe. I must, I will see her, nothing shall hold her from me. You may, answer’d Anaret, but then it must be with the Approbation of Monsieur B A N s E V e R I N, he will be proud receive |
you I
.
1
p I
I
  i g
I
rou in Quality of a Suitor to his Daughter, and
’tis only to oblige you to a x>ubliclc Declaration
that he takes these Meafiires. D’ e L m o n t was
# *
not persestly pleas’d with these Words • he was too quick lighted not to perceive immediately what Monsieur Sansever in drove at, but as well as he lik’d Amena, found no inclination in himself to Marry her; and theresore was not defirou5 of an Explanation of what he refolv’d not to Seem to understand. He walk’d two or three turns about the Room, endeavouring to conceal his Disgust, and wst^n he had so well overcome the Shock, as to banish all visible Tokens of it, I would willingly laid hp coldly, come into aiijr proper Method for the obtaining the Pershn of Amena, as well as her Heart; but there are.certain Reasons for which I cannot make a Dishovery of my Designs to her Father, ’till I ha ve first Spoken with her. My Lord, reply’d the subtle Anaret (easily guesting at his Meaning) I wish to Heaven there were a possibility of your Meeting; there is nothing I would not risque to forward it, and if your Lordship ran think of any way in which I may be serviceable to you, in this short Time I am allow’d to stay in the Family, I beg you would command me. She spoke this with an Air as made the Count believe she really had it in her Power to Serve iiim in this Occasion, and presently hit on the surest means to bind her to his Interest. You are veryr obliging, said he, and I doubt not but your Ingenuity is equal to }rour good Nature, therefore will leave the Contrivance of my happiness entirely to you; and that you may not think your Care bestow’d on an ungrateful Pershn, be pleas’d (continu’d he, giving her a Purse of lewis dops) to accept this
D 2 ** small
20 Love in Exceff * Off
jtmau Earnest of my future Friendship. A N At RET like most of her Funstion, was too mercinary to resist such a Temptaion, tho’' it had been given her to betray the Honour of her whole Sex; and after a little pause, repry'^? Your Lordstiip is too generous to be resus’d, tho’ in, a Matter of the greatest Difficulty, as indeed this is; for in the strist Confinement my Lady is, I know no way but one, and that extremely hazardous to her; however, I do not fear but by my Perfwalions, joyifd with her own Desires, will influence her to attempt it. Your Lordship knows we have a little Door at the farther end of the Garden, that opens into the Tuillerys. I do, crykl d’elmo'nt interrupting her, I have several times parted from my Charmer there, when my Entreaties have prevail’d with her to stay longer with me than She wou’d have the Family to take notice of. I hope to order the Matter so, refum’d Anaret, that it stiall be the Scene this Night of a most happy Meeting. My Lady unknown to her Father has the Key of it, Ihe can throw it to me from her Window, and I can open it to you, wffio must be walking near it, about Twelve or One a Clock, for by that time everybody will be in Bed. But what will that avail, cry’d D’ e lmont hastierfince stie lies within her Father's Chamber, where ’tis impoisible to pass without alarming him. You Lovers are sh iinpatient rejoyn’d Anaret smiling, I never defign’d you should have Entrance there, tho’ the Window is sh low, that a Pershn of your lcrdffiip’s Stature and Agility might mount it wish a Galliard step, but I suppose it will turn to as good an account, is your Mistress by my Assistance gets out of it. But can she,, interrupted' he, wili she dost thou
think
I
 1
«
think, fearitnot.v My Lord, reply a she, he hut punstualtmthe Hour Amena, shall be yours, if Love, Wit anttopportunity have power to make her So. D’ e L m o N T was transported with this Promise, and the thoughts of what he expested to postefs bt her means, rais’d his Imagination to sh high a pitch, as he cou’d not forbear kissing and .embracing her with such Raptures, as might not have been very pleasing to Amena, had she been witness of ’em. But An a r e t who had other things in her Head than Gallantry, difen gag’d her fels from him as shon she cou’d, taking more fatisfastion in forwarding an Affair in which she propos’d sh much advantage, than in the
Caresses of the most accomplish’d Gentleman in the World.
When she came Home she found everything as she coil’d wish, Monjieur Abroad, and his Daughter at the Window, impatiently watching her return, she told her as much of the Dishoursh she had with the Count as she thought ]5rbper; extolling his Love and Constancy, and carefully concealing all she thought might give an umbrage tohervertue. But in spite of all the Artifice she made use of, she found it no easy matter to persuade her to get out of the Window; the fears she had of being difcover’d, and more expos’d to her father’s Indignation, and the Censure of the World, damp’d her Inclinations, and made her deaf to the eager Solicitations of this unfaithful Woman. As they were Disputing, slime of the Servants hap’ing to come into the Garden, o blig’d ’em to break ost; and Anaret retir’d, not totally despairing of compaifing her Designs, when the appointed Hour should arrive,
and
2  5 Off
and Amena should know the darling Objest of her Wishes was Sj near. Nor did her Hopes deceive her, the Reshlutions of a Lover, when made against the interest of the Person belov’d, are but of a short duration; and this unhappy Fair was no shoner left alone, and had leisure to contemp late on the Graces of the charming D’ e L m o n t, but Love plaid his part with such Success, as made her repent she had chid Ana r e t for her Proposal, and wish’d for nothing more than an op])ortunitv to tell her so. She pafs’d several Hours in Disquietudes she had never known before, till at last she heard her Father come into the next Room to go to Bed, and fopn after shmebody kncek’d shfrly at the Window, she immediately open’d it, and perceiv’d by the Light of the Moon which then shone very bright, that it was Anaret, stiehadnot patience to listen to the long Speech the other had prepar’d to persuade her, but putting her Head as Saras she could to prevent being heard by herfather.well ANARET, faidshe, where is this Adventurous Lover, what is it he requires of me? Oh I Madam, reply’d she, overjoy’d at the compliable Humour she found her in, he is now at the Garden Door, there’s nothing wanting but your Key to give him Entrance; what farther he requests himself shall tell you. Oh Heavens 1 cry’d A m N A Searching her Pockets, and finding she had it not; I am undone, I have left it in my Cabinet in the Chamber where I us’d to lie. These words made A N a r e t at her Wits end, she knew there was no possibility of fetching it, there being so many Rooms to go through, she ran to the Door, and endeavour’d to ’ push back the Lock, but had not strength •, she then knew not what to do, she was sure d’el
M O N T
!
V
* ^ 9 *
 5
Mont was on the other fide, and fear’d he would resent this usage to the disappointment of all her mercenary Hopes, and diirst not call to acquaint him with his misfortune for fear of being heard; As for A M E N A, she was how more sensible than ever of the violence of her Inclinations, by the extreme vexation this Disappointment gave her: Never did People pass a Night in greater uneafi iiess, than these three • the Count who was naturally impatient could not bear a baulk of this nature without the utmost chagrin. Amena languish’d, and A n a r e t fretted to Death, tho’ she refblv’d to leave no Stone' unturn’d to fet all right again. Early in the Morning she went to his Lodgings, and found him in a very ill Humour, but she easily pacify’d him, by representing with a great deal of real Grief, - the Accident that retarded his Happiness, and astii ring him there was nothing cou’d hinder the fulfilling it. The next Night, when she had gain’d this Point, she came Home, and got the Key into her pofieffion, but could not get an opportunity all Day of speaking to her Lady, Monsieur Sanfeverin did not stir out of Doors, and pent most of it with his Daughter; in his Discourse to her, he
fet the Passion the Count had for her in sh true \ ^
a light, that it made a very great alteration in her Sentiments; and she began to reflest on the Cendefcenfions she had given a Man who had never sh much as mention’d Marriage to her with so much shame, as almost overwhelm’d her Love, and she was now determin’d never to she him, till he should declare himself to her Father in such a manner as would be for her Honour.
In
\
2i(.   * Off
I N the mean time Anaret waited with a great deal of Impatience for the Family going to Bed; and as soon as dll was hush, ran to give the Count Admittance •, and leaving him in an Alley oii the farther fide of the Gardeiij made the accil lloin’d Sign at the Window. Amena presently open’d itj but instead of staying to hear what she would say, threw a Letter out. Carry that, said she to Count d’e lmont, let him know the Contents of it are wholly the result of my own Reason. And as for your part, I charge yon trouble me no farther on this Subjest; then shutting the Casement hastily, left Anaret in a strange Cdnsternation at this sudden Change of her Humour; however she made no delay, but running to the Place where the Count waited her return, deliver’d him the Letter, but advis’d him (who was ready enough of himself) not to obey any Commands might be given him to the hindrance of his Designs. The Moon was then at the full, and gave so clear a Light, that he easily found it contain’d these Words.
I
To
t
f
*
 5
, /
IV Count d’e lmont.
TOG many Proofs have I given you of my weakness
not to make you think me incapable of forming or keeping any Rejolution to the Prejudice of that Pajjion you have infpird me with : But know, thou undoer of my ^uiet, tho’ I have lov’d and fill do Love you with a Tenderness, which I jear will be Unvanquiftable • yet I will rather suffer my Life, than iny Virtue to become its Prey. Press me then southwest more I conjure you, to such dangerous Interviewd. in which I dare neither Triif myself, nor Toti, if you believe me worthy your real Regard, the way thro’ Honour is open to receive toureligion, Reafott, m.odefy, and Obedience forbid the ref.
Farewell.
• t
d’elmont knew the Power hb had over her too well, to be much difcoiirag’d at what he read, and after a little consultation wfith Anaret, they concluded he should go to speak to her, as being
the bell: Solicitor in his own Cause. A he came
• 1
down the Walk, Amena saw him thro’ the Glass /
— ^
and the sight of that beloved Objest, bringing a thousand past Endearments to her Memory, made her incapable of retiring froiii the Window, and she remain’d in a languishing and immoveable posture, leaning her Head against the Shutter, ’till he drew neat enough to discern she saw him. He took this for no ill Orrien, and instead of falling on his Knees at an humble Distance, as slime ro mantick Lovers would have done, redoubled his pace, and Love and Fortune which on this Occasion were refolv’d to befriend him, presented to
. E his
'2   * Off
f
his view a large Rolling stone which the Gardener had accidentally left there; the ironwork that held it was very high, and strong enough to bear a much greater weight than his, sh he made no more to do, but getting on the top of it, was almost to the Waste above the bottom of the Casement. This was a strange Trial, for had Site been less in Love, good Manners would have oblig’d her to open it • however she retain’d so much of her former Reshlution, as to conjure him to be gone, and not expose her to such Hazards, that if her Father should come to know she held any clandestine Correspondence with him, after the Commands he^had given her, she were utterly undone,. and that he never must expest any conde fcenstons from her, without being first allow’d by him. d’elmont, tho’ he was a little startled to find her so much more Mistress of her Temper than he believ’d she could be, yet refolv’d to make all poshble use of this Opportunity, which probably might be the last he fiiou’d ever have, look’d on her as she Spoke, with Eyes sh piercing, so sparkling with Desire accompany’d with sh bewitching softness, as might have thaw’d the most frozen refervedness, and on the melting Soul stamp’d love’s Impression. ’tis certain they were too irrefistable to be long withstood, and putting an end to amena’s grave Remonstrances, gave him leave to reply to ’em in this manner. Why my lise my Angel, said he, my everlasting Treasure of my Soul, shou’d these Objestions now be rais’d? How can».you Pay you have given me | your Heart? nay, ©wn you think me worthy that j inestimable Jewel, yet dare not trust your Pershn^ with me a few Hours: What have you to fear from; your adoring Slave, I want but to convince ycu:
how [
  o.y
• I
how much I am so, hy a thousand yet uninvented Vows. They may be spar’d, cry’d Amena, hastily interrupting him. one Declaration to my Father, is all the proof that he or I demands of your Sincerity. Oh I thou inhuman and tyrannic Charmer, answer’d he (Seizing her Hand, and eagerly kilfing it) I doubt not but your faithful Anaret has told you, that I could not without the highest Imprudence presently discover the Pashon I have for you to the World. I have, my Lord, said that cunning Wench who stood near him, and that ’twas only to acquaint her with the Reashns why for sometime you would have it a Secret, that you so much defir’d to sheak with her. Besides ('rejoyn’d the Count) confider my Angel how much more hazardous it is for you to hold Dishoursh with me here, than at a farther elistance from your Father; your denying to go with me is the only way to make your Fears prove true; his jealousy of you may poshbly make him more wakeful than ordinary, and we are not fiire but that this Minute he may tear you from my Arms 5 whereas if you fuster me to bear you hence, if he should happen to come even to your Door, atid hear no noise, he will believe you steeping, and return to his Bed well fatissy’d. With these and the like Arguments she was t last overcome, and with the ashstance of Anaret, he easily lifted her down. But this rash Action, so contrary to the Resolution she thought hershlf a few moments besore sh fix’d in, made Such a confusion in her Mind, as render’d her insensible for slime Time of all
tf
he aid to her. They made what hast they could into the tuill^rks, and d’elmont having plac’d her on one of the most pleasant Seats,
E 2 was
I
2  • Off
was reshlv’d to loose no time; and haying giveii her Lome Reasons for his not addresting to her Father, w' ich tho’ weak in themselves, were easily believ’d by a Heart so willing to be deceiv’d as hers, he began to press for a greater confirmation of her Affidion than Words; and ’twas now this inconliderate Lady found herself in the greatest strait file had ever yet been in; all Nature feem’d to favour his Design, the pleasantness of the Place, the silence of the Night, the sweetness of the Air, perfum’d with a thousand various Odours, wafted by gentle Breezes from adjacent Gardens, completed the most delightful Scene that ever was, to offer up a Sacrifice to Love; not a breath but stew wing’d with Desire, and fent'fbft thrilling wishes to the Soul; Cynthia herself cold as she is reported, alfisted in the Inspiration, and shmetimes Shone with all her brightness, as it xvere to feast their ravish’d Eyes with gazing on each others Beauty then veil’d her Beams in Clouds, to give the Lover boldness, and hide the Virgins blushes.'what now could pooramena do, fiirrounded with so many Powers, attack’d by such a charming Force without, betray’d by tenderness within : Ver tue and Pride, the Guardians of her Honour stead from her Breast, and left her to her Foe, only a modest bashfulnefs remain’d, which for a time made some Defence, but with such weakness as a Lover less iinpatient than d’elmont would have little regarded. The heat of the Weather, and her confinement having hindered her from dresting that Day *, she had only a thin Silk Night Gown on, which stying open as he caught her in his Arms, he found her panting Heart beat measures of Consent, her heaving Breast swell to be press’d by his, and every Pulse
■ ....
* *
'. ■ i •
9
 9
cpnfefs a wish to yield •, her Spirits all diffolv’d sunk in a Lethargy of Love *, her snowy Arms unknowing grafp’d his Neck, her Lips met his halfway, and trembled at the touch *, in fine, there was but a moment betwixt her and Ruin; when the tread of somebody coming hastily down the Walk, oblig’d the halfshlels’d Pair to put a stop to farther Endearments. It was Anaret, who having been left Sentinel in the Garden, in order to open the Door when her Lady should return, had seen Lights in every Room in the House, andheard great Confusion, so ran immediately to give ’em notice of this Misfortune. These dreadful Tidings soon rous’d Amena from her Dream of Happiness, she accus’d the influence of her Amorous Stars, upbraided Anaret, and blam’d the Count in Terms little differing from distrastion, and ’twas as much as both of ’em could do to persuade her to be calm. However, ’twas concluded that Anaret should go back to the House,, return to ’em again, as soon as llie had learn’d
what accident had occafion’d this disturbance.the
)
Lovers had now a second Opportunity, if either of 'em had been inclin’d to make use of it, but their Sentiments were entirely chang’d with this Alarm; amena’s Thoughts were wholly taken up with her approaching Shame, and vow’d she wou’d rather die than ever come in to her father’s presence, if it were true that she was miss’d; the Count, vbo wanted not good Nature, seriously re flesting on the Misfortunes he was likely to bring bn a young Lady, who tenderly lov’d him, gave him a great deal of real Reinorfe, and the consideration that he should be necelfited, either to own an injurous Design, or come into measures for the clearing of it, which would in no way agree

t
  ^ Off
gree with his Ambition, made him extremely pensive, and wish Amena again in her Chamber, more earnestly'than ever he had done to get her out of it, they both remain’d in a profound - silence, impatiently waiting the approach of a naret; but she not coming as they expested, and the Night wearing away apace, very much encreas’d the trouble they were in; at length the Count, after revolving a thousand Inventions in his Mind, advis’d to walk toward the Garden and see whether the Door was yet open. ’tis better for you. Madam, said he, whatsoever has happen’d, to be found in your own Garden, than in any place with ine. Amen a comply’d, andfuffer’d herself to be led thither, trembling and ready to fink with Fear ■ and Grief at every step; but when they found all fast, and that there was no hopes of getting Entrance, she fell quite senseless, and without any signs oslife at her lover’s feet; he was strangely at a loss what to do with her, and made a thousand Vows, if he got clear of this Adventure, never to embark in another of this Nature • he was little skill’d in proper Means to recover her, and ’twas more to her Youth and the goodness of her Constitution that she ow’d the return of her Senses, than his awkard Endeavours; when she re. viv’d, the piteous Lamentations she made, and!
the perplexity he was in how to disfiofe of her, was very near reducing him to as bad aconditoii: as she had been in • his never till nov having had occasion for a Confident, render’d him fi) unhappy as shot to know anyone Pershn at whose housef he cou’d, with any Convenience, trust her, and to carry her to that where he had Lodgings, was the way to be made the talk of all Pans. He ask’d;
her.
%
 1
her several times if she w’ould not comrriand him to wait on her to Some Place where She might re jnain free from Censure, till she heard from her Father, but cou’d get no Answer but upbraiding from her. So making a Virtue of Necessity, he was oblig’d to take her in his Arms, with a design to bring her ( tho’ much against his Inclinations) to his own Apartment: As he was going thro’ a very fair Street which led to that in " which he liv’d, Amena cry’d out with a sort of Joy, loose me my Lord, I see a Light in yonder House, the Lady of it is my dearest Friend, she has power with my Father, and if I beg her Protestion, I doubt not but she will afford it me, and perhaps find someway to mitigate my misfortuiies; the Count was overjoy’d to be eas’d of his fair Burden, and setting her down at the Gate, was prepa riirg to take his leave with an indifference, which was but too visible to the ashisted Lady. I see, my Lord, said she, the pleasure you take in getting rid of me, exceeds the trouble for the Ruin you have brought upon me; but go, I hope I shall resent this Usage as I ought, and that I maybe the better enabled to do foi desire you to return the Letter I writ this fatal Night, the Relblution it contain’d will serve to remind me of my shameful breach of it.
Madam (answer’d he coldly, but with great Complaisance) you have said enough to make a Lover less obedient refuse;; because lam fen
J
fible of the accidents that happen to Letters, and to show that I can never be repugnant even to the most rigorous of your Commands, I shall make
no
o
• ' *
in Excess * Off
I
no scruple in fulfilling this, and trust to yoilr Goodness for the re fettling me in your Esteem, when next you make me sh happy as to see you; The formality of this Compliment touch’d her to the quick, and the thought of what fly was like td suffer on his account, fill’d her with so just an Anger, that as soon as fly got the Letter, she knock’d hastily at the Gate, which being immediately open’d, broke off any farther Discourse, she went in, and he departed to his Lodging, ruminating on every Circumstance of this Affair, and consulting with himself how he shou’d proceed. Alovisa ('for it was her Housh which amen A by a whimsical effest of Chance had made choice of for her Sanctuary) was no sooner told her Rival was come to speak with her, but she fell into all the Raptures that successful Malice could inspire, she was already inform’d of ]; )art of this night’s Adventure, for the cunning Charlo who by her Orders had been a diligent Spy on Cointt d’elmont’s Astions, and as constant an attendant on him as his shadow, had w'^atch’d him td Monsieur sanseverin’s Garden, seen him enter, and afterwards come with Amena into the tu illeneswhere perceiving’em Seated, ran Home, and brought his Lady an Account; Rage, Jealousy and Envy working their usual effests in her, at this News, made her promise the Fellow infinite Rewards if he would invent slime Stratagem tb separate ’em, which he undertaking to do, occafion'd her being up So late, impatiently waiting his return; she went down to receive her with greatcivi iity, inix’d with a feign’d surprise to see her at such an Hour, and in such a Dishabilee, which the other
answer
*
Fatal Inquiry ^
^lilwering ingeniously, and freely letting her into the whole secret, not only of her Amour, but the coldness she observed in d’elmont’s Behaviour at parting, fill’d this cruel 'Woman wish sh exquisite a Joy as she was hardly capable of difiem^ bling; therefore to get liberty to indulge it and to learh the rest of the particulars of C h a r L o; who she heard was come in, she told Amena she would have her go to Bed, and endeavour t o compose her shlf, and that she would send for Mon itenr Sanseverin in the Morning, and endear
Vous to reconcile him tb her. I will also idded
\
she with a deceitful smile, see the Coujtt d’elmont, and talk to him in a manner as shall make him truly sensible of his Happiness;; sh far iny Friendship shall extend, that if there be any real Castfe for making your Amour a Secret, he shall see you at my Housh, and pass for a Visitor of mine \ I have no body tb whom I need be accountable for my Astions, and atn above the censures of the World; Amena thank m her in terms full of gratitude, and went with thb Maid whom Alovisa had order’d to condusther to a Chaniber prepar’d for her; as soon as she had got rid of her, she call’d for Charlo, impatient to hear by what contrivance this lucky Chance had befallen her. Madam j said, he, though' I form’d a thoushnd Inventions, I found hot any sh plaufihle, as to alarm Monsieur. sanseyeritft’sfamily, with an outcry of Fire. Therefore I rang the Bell at the fore gate of the Housh, and shellow’d in the most: terrible accent I could possible turn my Voice toj Fire, Fire, rise, or you will all be burnt in your Beds.
I had not repeated this inany times, before I found the effest I wish’d; the Noises I heard, and the Lights I shw iri the Rooms, afistr’d irie there werd
F rid '
Ji
w
\
^4 Love in Exceft j ff
1
no Sleepers left •, than I ran to the Tuilliers, designing to observe the lover’s proceedings, but I found they vere appriz’d of the Danger they were in of being difcover’d, and were coining to endeavour an entrance into the Garden. 1 know the rest, interrupted alcvisa, the eventhasanswer’d even beyond my Wishes, and th^r Reward for this good Service shall be greater than thy Expestations. As file said these Words she reticd to her Chamber, more fatisfy’d than she had been for many Months. Quite different did poor Am e n a pafs thie Night, for besides the grief of having dif oblig’d her Father, banish’d her self his House, and expos’d her Reputation to the unavoidable censures of the unpity ing World; for an ungrateful, or at best: an indifferent Lover. She receiv’d a vast addition of Afflistions, when taking out the Letter which d’e L m o n t had given her at parting, possible to weep over it; and accuse herself for so inconsiderately breaking the noble resolution it contain’d : She found it was Alow i s a’s Hand, for the Count by mistake had given her the second he receiv’d from that Lady, instead of that ffie delir’d him to return. Never was Surprise, Confusion, and Despair as such a height, as in Amen a’s Soul at this difcovery she was now affur’d by what she read, that she had fled for protestion to the very Pershn she ought most to have avoided *, that she had made a Confident of her greatest Enemy, a Rival dangerous to her Hopes in every Circumstance. She conlider’d the High Birth and vast Poffeshons that Alovisa was iviistrefs of in opposition to her father’s canted power of making her a Fortune. Her Wit and Subtlety against her Innocence and Simplicity; her Pride, and the refpest her. grandeur
 5
deur commanded from the World, against her own deplor’d and wretched State, and lock’d upon her self as wholly losh The violence of her Sorrow is more easily imagin’d than exprefs’d; hut of all her melancholy ressestions, none rack’d her equal to the belief Ihe had that D’ e L m o n t was not unlenfible by this time whom the Letter came from, and had only made a Court to her to amuse himself a while, and then Suffer her to fall a Sacrifice to his Ambition, and feed the vanity of her Rival; a just Indignation now open’d the Eyes of her Understanding, and considering all the passages of the Comfs Behaviour, she law a thousand Things which told her, his Designs on her were far unworthy of the Name of Love. None that were ever touch’d with the least of those Passions which agitated the Soul of A m e n a, can believe they would permit Sleep to enter her Eyes: But if Grief and Distrastion kept her from repose;; had too much Business on her Hands to enjoy much more. She had promis’d Amena to foetid for her Father, and the Count, and found there were not too many Moments before Morning, to contrive fb many different forms of Behaviour, as should deceive ’em all three, complete the Ruin of her Rival, and engage the Addresses of her Lover; as soon as she thought it a proj^er Hour, she dispatch’d a Messenger to Count d’elmont, and another to fffow/ewr San sever in, who full of Sorrow as he was, immediately obey’d her Summons. She receiv’d him in her dreffnig room, and with a great deal of feign’d Trouble in her Countenance, accosted him in this manner. How hard is it, said she, to dissemble Grief, and in spite of all the Care which I doubt not you have taken to conceal it, in consideration of your own
F 2 and
\
5  y Off
and daughter’s Honour. I too plainly perceive it in your face to imagine that my own is hid, | How, Madam, cry’d the impatient Father, (then giving a loose to his Tears) are you acquainted then with my Misfortune? Alas, answer’d she, I fear by the Consequences you have been the last: to whom it has been reveal’d. I hop’d that my Advice, and the daily proofs the Count gave your Daughter of the little regard he had for her, might have fir’d her to a generous Disdain, and have a thoufaiid Pardons to ask of you for breach of Friendship, in concealing an Affair so requisite you should have known. ' Oh! Madam, reshm’d he, interrupting her, I conjure you make no Apologies for what is past:, I knbw too well the great iiefs of your goodness, and the favour you have always been pleas’d to honour her with • not to be astiir’d she was happy in your esteem, and only beg I may no longer be kept in Ignorance of the fatal Secret. You shall be inform’d of all, laid she, but then you must promish me to ast: by my 1 Advice; which he having promis’d, she told him after what manner Amena came to her Housh, the coldness the Count express’d to her, and she violence of her Pastion for him. Now, slid she, if you should Suffer your rage to break out in any public manner against the Count, it will only Serve to make your Daughters Dishonour the Table talk of all Paris. He is too great at Court, and has too many Friends to be compell’d to any Terms for your shtisfastion; besides, the least noise might make him dishover by what means he •first became acquainted with her, and her excessive,
I will not shy troublesome fondness of him, since which should he do, the shame wou’d be wholly her’s,
for few wou’d condemn him for accepting the
■
I
I
, i I
 7
u
offer’d Caresses of a Lady so young and beautiful
^ A M E N A. But is it poshble, cry’d he (quite confounded at these words) that she should stoop lb low to oster Love. Oh Heavens! is this the Cstest of all iny Prayers, my Care, and my Indulgence. Doubt not, refum’d Alovisa of the Truth of what I say, I have it from himself, and to convince you it is sh, I shall inform you of shmething I had forgot before. Then she told him of the Note she had ssip’d into the Letter he had forc’d her to write, and of sending A n a r e t to his Lodgings, which she hightned with all the aggravating Circumstances her Wit and Malice cou’d Suggest V till the old Man believing all she said as; ian s)ragle, was almost senseless between Grief nd Anger; but the latter growing rather the most predominant, he vow’d to punish her in such a manner as should deter all Children from Dishbedience. Now, said Alovisa, it is, that I expest the performance of your Promise; these threats avail but little to the retrieving your daughter’s Reputation, or your quiet; be therefore persuaded to make no words of it, composh your coun r tenace as much as poshble to serenity, and think if you have no Friend in any Moiiastry where you could send her till this Discourse, and her own foolish Folly be blown over. If jrou have not, I can recommend you to one at ist. Dennis where the Abbess is my near Relation, and on my Letter will use her with all imaginable Tenderness. Monjieur was extremely pleas’d at this Proposal, and gave her those thanks the seeming kindness of her oster deferv’d. I would not, refum’d she, have you take her Home, or see her before she goes; or if you do, not till all things are ready for her Departure, for I know she will - * be
/
I
g  • Off
be prodigal of her promises of Amendment, still Ihe has prevail’d with your Fatherly Indulgence to permit her stay at Paris, and know as well she i will not have the power to keep ’em in the same Towti with the Cottiit. She shall if you please, remain conceal’d in my House, ’till you have provided for her Journey, audit will be a great means to put a bp to any farther ressestions the malicious may make on her; if you give out she is already gone to some Relations in the Country. As she was speaking, Charlo came to acquaint her, one was come to visst her. She. made no doubt but stwas D’ E L m o, n t, therefore hasten’d away Monjieur San sever in, after having fix’d him in a Reshlution to do everything as she advis’d. It was indeed Count D’ elmont that was come, which as shon as she was assur’d of, she threw off her dejested and mournful Air, and assum’d one of all Gaiety and good-humour, dimprd her Mouth with Smiles, and call’d the laughing Cupids to her Eyes.
M Y Lord, said she, you do well by this early itsst to retrieve your Sexes drooping fame of Constancy, and prove the nicety of A M e n a’s discernment in conferring favours on a Person, who. to his other excellent Qualifications, has that of assiduity to deserve them; as he was about to re p'y. the rush of shmebody coming hastily down I the Stairs which faced the room they were in, ob blig’d ’em to turn that way. It was the unfortunate Amena, who not being able to endure the thoughts of staying in her Rivals House, distrasted with her griefs, and not regarding what should become of her, as shon as she heard the Doors were open, was preparing to sty from that detested place.. Alovisa was vex’d to the Heart
at
\
J -- * --
 9
* ^ • *
fit iight of her, hoping, to have had some dilp courfe with the Conyit before they liiet; but she distembled it, and catching hold of her as she Was endeavouring to pass, ask’d where she was going; and what occalion’d. the Dishrder she obshrv’d in her. I go, (answer’d Amena) from a falsh Lover, and a falshr Friend; biit why shou’d I upbraid you (continu’d she looking wildly sometimes on the Count, and sometimes on Alovisa) Treacherous Pair, you know too well each others Baseness, and my wrongs, no longer then, detain a Wretdi whose presence, had you the least Sense of Honour, Gratitude, or even common Humanity, wou a fill your Conshiences with Remorse and Shame; and who has now no other wish, than that of shunning yoli for ever. As she Spoke this, she strugled to get loosh from Alow is a’s Arms, who, in spite of the Amazement she was in, still held her. D’ e L M o N T was no less confounded, and entirely ignorant of the meaning of what he heard, was at a loss how to reply, still she refum’d her reproaches in this manner: Why ye Monsters of barbarity, said she, do you delight in beholding the ruins you have made? Is not the knowledge of my Miseries, my everlasting miseries sufficient to content you? And must 1 be debarr’d that only Remedy for Woes like mine? Death! Oh cruel return for all my Love, my Friendship! and the confidence I repos’d in you. Oh 1 to what am I reduc’d by my too soft and easy nature, hard fate of tenderness, which healing others, only wounds it’s self— — Heavens! — here she stopp’d the violence of her resentment, endeavouring to vent it self in sighs, rose in her breast with such an impetuosity as choak’d the passage of her words, and
she
4  • Off
9
she fell in a livoon, tho’ the Cotint, and alovf sa were bothiri the greatest Consternation imaginable, yet neither of ’em were negligent in trying to recover *, her as they Were bull’d about her, that fatal Letter which had. been the Cause of this Disturbance, fell out of her Bofoni, and both being eager to take it up (beliving it might make some discovery) had their Hands on it at the same time; it was but Slightly folded, and immediately shew’d ’em from what shurse amena’s despair proceeded her upbraiding of alovisa, and the Blufiies aiid Confusion which he obferv’d in that Ladies Face, as soon as ever she saw it open’d, put an end tb the mystery, and one less quick of Apprehension then dshlmont, wou’d have made no difficulty in finding his unknown Admirer in the Pershn of Alovisa : She to conceal the disorder she was in at this Adventtire, as much as possible;; her Women, and order’d ’em to Convey Amena into another Chamber where there was more Air 5 as ihe was preparing to follow turning a little towards the Cdunt, but still extremely confus’d, you’ll Pardon, me, my Lord, said she, if my concern for my Friend obliges me to leave you. Ah Madam, reply’d he, forbear to make any Apologies to me, rather Summon all your goodness t6 forgive a wretch so blind to happiness as I have been: She either cou’d not, or wou’d not makfe any answer td these Words, but seeming as tho’ she heard ’em not, went hastily into the Room where Amena was, leaving the Count full of various, and confus’d Restestions; the fweetness of his Disposition made him regret his being the Author of amena’s Misfortunes, but how mise | is that woman’s Condition, who by her misr |
management
I

Management is reduc’d to fb poor a Comfort as th? pity of her Lover, that Sex is generally too Gay to continue long uneasy, and there was little likelihood he cou’d be capable of, lamenting illsj which his small Acquaintance with the Passion from which they sprung, made him not comprehend. The pleasure .the Discovery gave him of a secret he had fb long dessr’d to find, out, kept hini from being too much concern’d at the Adventure that occasson’d it • but he could not forbear accusing himself of intolerable Stupidity, when he confider’d the passages fof Alow is a’s Behaviour her Swooning at the Ball, her constant Glances, her frequent blushes when he talk’d, to her, and all his Cogitations whether on Alcv isa, ox amek a were mingled with a Wonder that Love should hav o
such Power. The diyerfity of his Thoughts wou’d have entertain’d him much longer, if they had not been interrupted by his Page, who came in a great hurry, to acquaint him, that his Brother the young Chevalier, Bril n a n was just comc; to Town, and waited with Impatience for his Coming Home: As much a Stranger as d’elmgnt was to the Affairs of Love, he was none to those of Friendship, and inaking no dotlbt but that the former ought to yield to the latter in every refpest^ contented himself with telling one of alovisa’s Servants, as he went otit, that he woush wait on her in the Evening, and made what haii he cou’d to give his beloved Brother the Welcome he expested after so long an absence; and indeed the manner of their Meeting, exprefs’d a most entire and sincere Affestion bn both fides. The Chevalier Wa
but a Year younger than the Count, they had. beeii bred together from their Infancy, and there was such a fiinpathy in their Souls, and so great a Reel semblance
I
Love in excessor^
semblance in their Pershns, as very much Contributed to endear ’em to each other with a Tender
»
far beyond that which is ordinarily found .a incng Relations. After the first Testimonies of it were over, d’elmont began to Question him how he had pafs’d his Time since their Separation, and to give him shine little Reproaches for not writing sh often as he might have Expested. Alas! my dearest Brother, reply’d the Chevalier, shch various Adventures have hap’ned to me since we parted, as when I relate ’em will I hope excuse my seeming negligence; these Words were accompany’d with Sighs, and a Melancholy Air immediately overspreading his Face, and' taking a way great part of the vivacity, wshich lately fparhed in his Eyes, rais’d an impatient desire an the Coioit to know the Reashn of it, which when he had express’d, the other (after having engag’d him that whatever Causes he might find to ridicule his Folly, he wou’d suspend all appearance of it till the end of his Narration) began to satisfy in this Manner.
. •* '■ hw -- ■ ’
The
t
#
s
 5
V
I
The S T O R Y of
THE
Chevalier Bril L i a n.
V
At St. Omers, where you left me, I hapen’d to
make an Acquaintance with one Monsieur Bel PINE, a Gentleman who was there on some Business; we being both pretty much Strangers in the Place, occafionst an Intimacy between us, which the disparity of our Tempers, wou’d have prevented our Commencing at Path, but you know I was never a lover of Solitude, and for want of Company more agreeable, was willing to encourage his. He was indeed so obliging as to stay longer at St. Oiners then his Affairs required, purposely to engage me to make Ammis in my way to paku. He was very Yain, and fancying himself happy in the esteem of the fair Sex, was desirous I should be witness of the Favours they bestow’d on him. Among the number of those he used to talk ost was Mademoiselle Ansellina de lat OUR, a Panfan Lady, and Heiress of a great Estate, but had been slime time at Amiem with Madam the Baroness de Beronville her God mother. The Wonders he told me of this young Ladies Wit, and Beauty, inclin’d me to a desire of feeing her; and as soon as I was in a Condition to Travel, we took our Way towards Amiens, he us’d me with all the Friendship he was capable of expreifing; and soon after we arriv’d, carry’d me to the : But oh Hea
G 2 vensi
4  * Off
yens I How great was my Astonishment when | Sound Ansellina as.far beyond his faint Description, as the Sun Beams the Imitation of Art; besides the regularity of her Features, the delicacy of her Complexion, and the just Simmetry of her whole Composition, she has an undifcribable sweetness that plays about her Eyes and Mouth, ahd softens all her Air : But all her Charms, dazzling as they are, v/ou’d have lost their captivating Force on me, if I had believ’d her capable of that Weakness for Bell pine that his Vanity would have me think. She is very Young and Qay, and I easily perceiv’d she suffer’d his Addresses more out of Diversion then any real regard’she had for him; he held a constant Correspondence at Park, ' and was continually furnish’d with every thin? that was Novel, and shy that means introduce himself into many Companies, who elfe wou’d not have endured him; but when at any time I was so happy as to entertain the lovely Anselina alone, and we had Opportunity for serious Dishourfe, (which was iinpossible in his Company) I found that she was Mistress of a Wit, Poynant enough to be Satirical, yet it was accompanied with a Discretion as very much heighten’d her Charms, and compleated the Conquest that her Eyes begun. I will consess to you, Brother, that I became So devoted to my Passion that I had no leisure for any other Sentiments. Fears, Hopes, Anxities, jealous Pains, uneasy Pleasures, all the Artillery of Love, were garrifoii’d in shy .Deart, and a thousand various half forin’d Resolutions fill’d my Head. Ansel L in a’s insensibility among a crow’d of Admirers, and the disparity of oiir Fortunes wou’d have given me just Causes of Despair, if the Generosity iff her Temper had not shiipated the' one, and her,; V ■. ‘ ' Youth
u
>
 , 45
Youth, and the hope her Hour was not yet come, the other. I was often about letting her know the Power she had over me, but something of an awe which none but those wbo truly Love can guess at, still prevented my being able to utter it, and I believ’d should have languish’d still this Moment in an unavailing lileripe, if an accident had not hapeif d to embolden me : I went one Day to xdfit my Adorable, and being told she was in the Garden, went thither in hopes to see her, but being deceiv’d in my ex pestation, believ’d the Servant who gave me that Information was mistaken, and fancying she might be retir’d to her Closet, as she very often did in an Afternoon, and the pleasantness of the Place inducing me to stay there till ssie was willing to admit me. I sat down at the Foot of a DIANA, curiolissy carv’d in Marble, and full of melancholy Ressestions without knowing what I did, took a black lead Pen out of my Pocket, and writ on the Pedestal these two Lines.
Hopeless, and Silent, I muf fill adore.
Her Hearth more hard than Stone whom Pd implore,
\
I had scarce finish’d ’em, wh^i^ I perceiv’d Ansellina at a good distance from me, coming out of a little close Arbour; the refpest I had for her, made me fear she should know I was the Author of ’em, and guess what I found I had not gain’d Courage enough to tell her. I went out of the Alley, as I imagin’d, unseen, and defign’d to come up another, and meet her, besore she cou’d get into the House. But tho’ I walk’d pretty fast:, she had left the Place besore I could attain it and in her stead ('casting my Eyes toward the Statue
with
\
j   * Off
with an Intention to rub out what I had writ I found this Addition to it.
Tou wrong your Love, while you conceal your Fain, Flints will difjolve with conjlant drops of Rain.
But, my dear Brother, if you are yet inlen lible of the wonderful Esteds of Love, you will not be able to imagine what I felt at this view; I was fatisfy’d it could be writ by no bod3r but Ansellina, there being no other Person in the Garden, and knew as well she cou’d not design that Encouragement for any other Man, because ‘ on many occasions she had seen my Hand; and the Day before had written a Song for her, which she defir’d to learn, with that very Pen I now had made use of; and going hastily away at the sight of her, had forgot to take with me. I gaz’d upon the dear obliging Charasters, and kifs’d the Marble which contain’d ’em, a thousand times before I cou’d find in my Heart to efface ’em; as I was in this agreeable Amazement, I heard Bel pine’s Voice calling to me as he came up the Walk, which’d oblig’d me to put an end to it, and the Objest which occafibn’d it. He had been told as well as I, that Ansellina was in the Garden, and expreshng some wonder to see me alone, ask’d where she was, I answer’d him with a great deal of real Truth, that I knew not, and that I had been there slime Time, but had not been so happy as to entertain her. He feem’d not to give Credit to what I laid, and began to use me aster a fashion as would have much more astonish’d me from any other Person. .1 would not have you, said he, be concern’d at what I am about to say, because ycu are one of those for whom I am willing to preserve
I
 7
serve a Friendship; and to convince you of my Sincerity, give you leave to address after what manner you please to any of the Ladies with whom I have brought you acquainted, excepting Ansellina. But I take this Oyiportunity to let you know I have already made choice of her, with a design of Marriage, and from this time forward, shall look on any Visits you shall make to her, as injurious to my Pretensions. Tho’ I was no Stranger to the Vanity and Insolence of Bel pine’s Humour, yet not being accustomed to shch arbitrary kind of Treatment, had certainly resented it (if we had been in any other Place) in a very disterent manner than I did, but the consideration that to make a Noise there, would be a re stestion rather than a Vindication on An seelin'a’s Same I contented myself with telling him he might be perfestly easy, that whatever qiia lifications the Lady might have that should encourage his Addresses, I should never give her any Reason to boast a Conquest over me. thefewords might have born two Interpretations, if the disdainful Air with which I spoke ’em, and which I could not dissemble, and going immediately away had not made him take ’em as they were really dessgn’d, to affront him, He was full of Indignation and Jealousy (if it is poshble for a Person to be touch’d with that Pashon, who is not capable of the other, which generally occasions it) but however, having taken it into his Head to imagine I was better receiv’d by Ansellina than he desired;; and a sort of Womanish Spleen transported him sofar as to go to An sell in a’s Apartment, and rail at me most profusely (as I have since been told) and threaten how much he’d be reveng’d, ifheheardi ever should have the
assu
4  * Off
assurance to Yisst there again. Ansellina
first laugh’d at his Folly, but finding he perlisted; and began to altume more Liberty than she ever meant to afford hini; instead of, list’ning to his Entreaties, to forbid me the Privilege I, had enjoy’d of her Conversation; she pass’d, that very Sentence on him, and when next I waited of her, receiv’d me with mote Refpest than ever; and when at last I took the' boldness to acquaint her with my Pashon, I had the Satisfastion to observe froril the frankness of her Disposition, that I was iidt shdifferent to her nor indeed did she, even in Public, astest any refervedness more than the decencies of her Sex and (Quality requir’d; for after mv Pretensions to her were commonly talk’d bss and those who were intimate with her, wou’d rally her about me; fire pafs’d it off with a Spirit of Gaity and good-humour peculiar to herself, and bated nothing of her usual freedom to me; she permitted me to Read to her, to Walk and Dance with her, and I had all the Opportunities of endeavouring an increase of her esteem that I cou’d : wish, which so incens’d Bel pine, that he made no scruple of reviling both her and me in all Companies wdierever he came, shying,! was a little wortff less Fellow, who had nothing but my Sword to de; pend upon; and that An s el L i n a having no hopes of Marrying him, was glad to take up with the first that ask’d her.thefe scandalous Reports on my first hearing of ’em had assuredly been fatal to one of us, if Ansellina hastnot commanded me by ail the pasfion I profess’d, and by thetnend fliip she freely acknowledged to have for mej not to take any Notice of ’em : I fet tco high a Value Oii the favours she allow’d me, to be capable
/
;
m
\
I
/
 9
Me of Dishbedience; and She was too nice a Judge of the Punstillioss of our Sexes Honour, not to take this Sacrifice of sh just a Reshntment, as a very great proof how much I submitted to her will, and fijster’d not a Day to pafs without giving ma some new mark how nearly (she was touch’d with it.
I was the most contented and happy Pershn in the World, still hoping that in a little time, shehaving no Relations that had power to contradist her Inclinations) I should be able to obtain everything from her that an honourable Passion could require; still one Evening coming Home pretty late from her, my Servant gave me a Letter, which he told me was left for me, by one of Bel pine’s Servants; I preshntly fulpected the Contents, and found I was not mistaken -, it was really a Challenge to meet him the next Morning, and must confess, tho’ I long’d for an Opportunity to cha tize his Insolence, was a little troubled how to excuse my self toanselline, burr there was no possiblity of evading it, without rendering my self unworthy of her, and hop’d that Circumstance wou’d be sufficient to clear me to her. I will not trouble your Brother with the particulars of our Duel, since there was nothing material, but that ■ at the third pafs (I know not whether I may call it the estest of my good or evil Fortune) he receiv’d my Sword a good depth in his Body, and Sell with all the Symptoms of a Dying'maii. I made all possible hast to send a Surgeon to him. In my way I met two Gentlemen, who it seems he had made acquainted with his Design probably with an intent on to be prevented). They ask’d me what Success, and when I had inform’d ’em, advis’d me to be gone from Amiem before the News should reach the Ears of Bell pine’s Relations,
H who
Love in excesson.,
who were not incoiifiderahle in that Place. I made ’em those Retributions their Civilities deferv’d; but how eminent soever the Danger apt pear’d that threatened me, coffd not think of lea r ying Amiens, without having first: Seen ansel line. I went to the Baroneffes, and found my Charmer at her Toylet, and either it was my Fancy, or elfe she really did look more amiable in that Undress than ever I had seen her tho’ adorn’d with the utmost: Illustrations. She feem’d furpriz’d at feeing me so early, and with her wonted good-humour, askfng me the reason of it, put me into a mortal Agoiiy how to answer. her, for I must affure you Brother, that the fears of her Displeasure were a thousand times more dreadful to me, than any other apprehensions;; repeated the (Question three or four times before I had Courage to repl3r, and I believe she was pretty near guessing the Truth by riiy Silence, and the disorder in my Countenance before I spoke;; when I did, she receiv’d the account of the whole Adventure with a vast deal of trouble, but no anger; she knew too well what I ow’d to my Reputation, and the Post his Majesty had honour’d me with, to believe, I cou’d, or ought to dispense with fiibmitting to the Reflections which must have fallen on me, had I asted otherwish than I did. Her Concern and Tears, which she had not Power to contaiff rat the thoughts of my Departure, joyri d: with her earnest Conjurations To me to be gone, let me more than ever into the Secrets of her Heart, and gave me a Pleafijre as incon* ceiyeable as the necessity of parting did the contrary. Nothing cou’d be more moving than our, taking leave, and when she tore her shlf half willing and half unwilling froiti my Arms, had shut
me
>.
*
0
  ^ t
iiie away inconsolable, if her Promises of coming to Pam as shon as she could without being taken notice of, and, frequent writing to me in the mean time, had not given me a Hope, tho’ a distant one of Happiness. Thus Brother, have I given you, in as few Words as I cou’d, a Recital of everything that has hapen’d to me of Consequence since our Separation, which I dare believe you will find more to Pity than Condemn. The afflicted chevalier cou’d not conclude Without letting fall some Tears; which the Coiiiit perceive ing, ran to him, aiid tenderly embracing him, slid all that cou’d be expested from a most affestio ^ nate Friend to mitigate his Sorrows, nor fustered him to remove from his Arms ’till he had acornplish’d his Design;; then believing the hearing of the Adventures of another, (especially one he was sh deeply interested in) Would be the surest means to give a Truce to the more melancholy Ressestions on his own, relating everything that had befallen him ssnce his coming to Paris. The Letters he receiv’d from a Lady hicognuo, his little Gallantries with a Amena, and the accident that presented to his view, the unknown Lady in the Pershn of one of the greatest Fortunes in all France. Nothing cou’d be a greater Cordial to the Chevalier, tbah to find his Brother was belov’d by the Sister of Ansellina, he did not doubt but that by this nieaiis there might be a possibility of feeing her sooner than elfe he cou’d have hop’d, and the two Brothers began to enter into a serious consultation of this Affair, which ended with a refolii tion to fix their Fortunes there. The Count had never yet seen a Beauty formidable enough to give, him an Hours uneasiness (purely for the sake of Love) and would often shy, gipid’s Quiver never
H 2 held
✓
5 ^   f • Off
held an Arrow of force to reach his Heart; thosh little Delicacies, thosh trembling aching Transports, which every sight of the belov’d Objest occasions, and fb visibly diftinguisties a real Passion from a Counterfeit, he look’d on as the chimera’s of an idle Brain, form’d to inspire Notions of an imaginary Bliss, and make Fools losh themselves in Seeking *, or if they had a Being, it was only in weak Souls, a kind of a dishase with which he aftur’d himshlf he should never be infested. Ambition was certainly the reigningpas fion in his Soul, and Alow is a’s Quality and vast Poffeshons, promising a full Gratification of that, he ne’er sh much as wish’d to know a farther Happiness in Marriage.
But while the Count and Chevalierwere thus em plov’d, the Rival Ladies past the Hours in a very different Entertainment, the difpair^and bitter Lamentations that the unfortunate Amena made, when she came out of her fwocning, were shch as mov’d even Alovisa to Compassion, and if anything but resigning d’elmont could have given her Conshlation, she wou’d willing have apply’d it. There was now no need of further Dissimulation, and she confessed to Amena, that she had lov’d the Charming Count with a kind of Madness from the first Moment she beheld him That to favour lier Designs on him, she had made Tife of every Stratagem she coif d invent, that by her means, the Armour was first dishover’d to Mon jieur Sansever IN, and his Family alarm’d the nig'.t before; and Lastly, that b3r her per fuafions, he had refolv’d to send her to a Monastery, to which she must prepare her self to go in a few ' Days without taking any leave even of her Father; have you (cry’d Amena hastily interrupting.her)
have
/
I

have you prevail’d with my Father to send me from this hated Place without the Punishment of hearing his upbraiding?? the other answering in the Affirmative, I thank you, reshm’d Amena, that Favour has cancell’d all your shore of Cruelty, for after the Follies I have been guilty of, nothing is sh dreadful as the Sight of him, and who wou’d, oh Heavens I (continu’d She bursting into a Flood of Tears) wish’d to stay in a World sh full of Falsehood. She was able to utter no more for some Moments, but at last, raising herself on the Bed where she was laid, and endeavouring to seem a little more compos’d : I have two Favours, Madam, yet to ask of ycu (rejoyn’d she) neither of ’em will I believe seem difficult to you to grant, that you will make pfe of the Power you have wdth my Father, to let my departure he as sudden as possible, and that while I am here, I may never she cowwtd’elmont. It was not likely that Alovisa should deny Requests sh suitable to her own Inclinations, and believing, with a great deal of Reason that her Preshnee was not very greatsul, left her to the Care of her Women, whom Ihe order’d to attend her with the same Diligence, as herself. It was Evening before the Count came, and Alovisa spent the remainder of the Day in very uneasy Reflestions, she knew not as yet, whether she had caush to rejoice in, or blame her Fortune in sh unexpestedly dishovering her Passion, and an incessant Viriffitude of Hope and Fears, rack’d her with most intolerable Inquietude, ’till the darling Objest of her Wishes appeared, and tho’ the first sight of him, added to her other Pash fions, that of Shame, yet he manag’d his Address sh well, and so modestly and artfully hinted the
knowledge
fy 4 Love in Excefr • Off
/
knowledgeoshjs Happiness, that every Sentimeiii: gave place to a new Admiration of the Wonders of his Wit, and if before she lov’d, she now a dor’d, and began to think it a kind of Merit in herself to be sensible of his. He soon put it in her Power to oblige him, by giving her the History df his brother’s Passion for her Sister, and she was not at all backward in assuring him how much she approv’d of it, and that she wou’d write to Ansellina by the first Post, to engage her coming to Paris with all imaginable speed. In fine, there was nothing she cou’d ask refus’d, and indeed it would have been ridiculous for her to have affested Coyness, after the Testimonies she had long since given him of one of the most violent Passions that ever was; this sore knowledge fav’d abundance of Dissimulation on both Sides, and she took care that if he should be wanting in his kind Expressions after Marriage, he should not have it in his Power to pretend (as fbine Husbands have done)
that his Stock was exhausted in a tedious Court,
,, ^.
Everything was presently agreed upon, and the Wedding day appointed, which was to be as shon as everything cou’d be got ready to make it Magnificent •, tho’ the count’s good Nature made him desirous to learn something of Amena, yet he durst not inquire for fear of giving an Umbrage to his intended Bride • but she, imagining the reafi^n of his Silence, very frankly told him, how she was to be difpos’d of, this knowledge made no fnall Addition to his Contentment, for had she stay’d in Pans, he con’d expest nothing but continual Jealousies from Alovisa; besides as he really wish’d her happy, tho’ he cou’d not make her So, he thought Ablenee might banish a hopeless Passion from her Heart, and time and
other,

other objests.efface an Idea, which cou’d not but be Distriistive to her Peace. He stay’d at Alo visa’s House ’till it was pretty late, and perhaps they had not parted in some Hours longer, if his impatience to inform his Brother his success, had not carried him away. The young Chevalier was infinitely more Transported at the bear Hopes of being something nearer the aim of allhis wishes, then d’elmont was at the afliirance of loosing his, and cou’d not forbear rallying him for plat cing the ultimate of his Wishes on filch a Toy, as he argu’d Woman was, which the Chevalier endeavouring to confute, there began a very warm Difpiite, in which neither of ’em being able to. convince the other. Sleep at last interpos’d as Moderator. The next Day they w’'ent together to visit Alovi sa, and from that time were seldom asunder: : compassion to Amena, they took what Care they cou’d to conceal the Design they, had ill Hand, and that unhappy Lady was in a few Days, according to her Rivals Contrivance, hurried away without feeing any of her Friends.
, When she was gone, and there was no further need of keeping it a Secreit, the News of this great Wedding was immediately spread over the whole Town, and every one talk’d of it, as their particular Interests or Affestions clistated. All d’elmont’s Friends were full of Joy, and he met no inconsiderable Augmentation of it himself, when his Brother receiv’d a Letter from Ansellina,
with an Account that Bel pine’s Wound was
*
found not dangerous, and that he was in a very fair way of Recovery. And it was concluded that as soon as the Wedding was over, the young Chevalier should go in Person to Amiens, to fetch his belov’d Ansellina, in order for a Second, and
- as
V
• •>
  • Off
as delir’d Nuptial. There was no Gloom now left to Cloud the Gaiety of the happy Day, nothing could be more Grand than the Celebration of it; and Alovisa now thought herself at the end of her Cares V but the Sequel of this Glorious Beginning, and what Effest the Despair and Imprecations of 4. M E u A (when she heard of it) iiroduc’d, shall with the continuance of the cheva ijer brillian’s Adventures be faithfully related in the next Part.
>
V
/
FINIS.
y
%
Love in Excess
0R THE
4 ' ^ V, __? .D s C
FATAL enquiry
A
*.■ f y
Part the Second.
.. /«■
..f'
f
Each Day we break the bond of Humane Laws For Love, dnd vindicate the common Can fa Laws for Defence of civil Rights are plac’d, (Pafie
Love throws the Fences down, and makes a ged.ral
$
Maids, Widows, Wives, without diflinbion fall.
The sweeping deltige Love coines on and covers all.
• y
By Mr St H A Y w 6 6 D.
''■.■'■• ' ■' '-. b A I' ' '■ ■'. '•.•..•'■■■■
gi^jmmmmmiimmmmmmi^kmmmaamsmm*ma^*mai^mmnjammimi: mmbikm: mmmmmaaamm, ma: mmmmmmmmijimmjlim^dkmimnmammm
LONDON:
\ ^
r / '.. • ‘ ^ '
Printedfor W. chetwoote at cato’s head, under
^ ' y. ' y
tom’s coffee house^ in kujfel flreet, Covent Garden and Sold by J. R o b e r T s ih Warwick lane, Price 2 sv 'Where may be had the first Part of  ; and the Spaniard, or Don Zara del fogo^ i new ko'niance, Ttist publilh’d:
J ^. >■- 5^
j
«
\
CN -- ■. ■ i'. - A '■ ‘ • ■ ■.; ' V, C ■ ’ir")
N: V o, : ' ■ ^, h - N 'v ■ AC O ■• V V A' '
^' i S'.. ■. - ' - *. cu ■. V. b ■ :. ' ‘ ‘ ' '. V ■ ^ ^
.;. A. ■ - ■. ■ '- If'
‘ r;... ■. -
'• : ' ' - : ■', • i,,
- ‘, -,. * ’ *• >
V ■.. ■., ■ ■ " ■
-•. : .• - ' ' L -- /. -. • ** '. - ‘ rv.
.. ^ ' ■* ' ^
- - • ■* ■.. I ' "• ', \ A tr ^ : ’‘m
'.. '. ~ ••'. ^. *, T
> ^ *•-•
• ' \ - ■
N. '••<
'i' ■, ^ ' ' -■ 'c
>■ -- -
^
• • V
\ ' ' *.
» • ' ’ ^ ■ i
7
... A
• C
■ - / ',. C' '.. ■ • '
k <... •
■ ' : •.. ..•. ■ ^ s, '. ^
/ ' :
* ^
• •
«»
\ ■ •.
. ‘. ' •
'. \ '
/ ** '
V
■ I
}
• ^ ' m
V '. ■'
• - -■, - - /
^. d ■■,. - ' I
.. %► *
^ 1
■ • • "5
\ - .T
•
- Afrr_ < ' • ^. -
93^tf \ ■ > r
mv:. f ■ •• •■ ^
.. ' ‘ ^
V.. ■ - ' • \ • i;
; ‘. ' ■
•
■. ■.. -■ ',. J
D : ■'• • ' ■.. n - V i
✓ '.
■■ ^., te
-., ■ '. ■ ': -
- \ ' ■. ' ■ '.
. • -. • >• - •
^ J
'^ ■.. ■ ■'» ■ C
% *. • • •- y. ' i
•- ■ 'N.. ':. •. -..
, *. -
■* • ' * '. • - '
. s. • • •• fs'
... ' ' %
.■’■*' • V;
*. • * ' ‘ I
• ■*'•'« ■■ ■■ '• • • - '* ‘. >/ V. % ^ _ •_-••• ■. .i:
: •■ : -.. •, / ^ '. ", A
='" V ■ ^.,
- ' - C - - ■ i ■. " ■ ' ' ' ■. ■ ^
- '. " ■ ■, ■. ■ - : ■
-, X •!
■ LV, ■ J - r.. ■ -'.«
V. ' - ^ : ' ■ ' i
'- ■. 4 i
... % ■ fi
■; ■ ^.., -. ' : -1
’ - ri
, r ■■ ' I. oj
'' / .•>•-■ ■•. • .'rj
• -' - N : .M -. (.4 .'. ~ ■ M
/
I
I
T O
i
Mrs, Eliz. Haywood,
G H H E R
NOVEL
C A L LD
loveinexcess, c.
N
FAIN wou a I here my vaji Ideas raise.
To paint the Wonders ef eliza’s praise fi But like young Artists where their Jlroaks decay
I fade those Glories which I can’t display.
Thy Prose in sweeter Harmony refines.
Than Numbers flowing thro’ the mufe’s Lines,
What Beauty ne’er coil’d melt, thy Touches fire.
And raise a Music that can Love inspire ^
Accents all our Senses wound.
Andfir ike with softness, whilfi they Charm with sound!
When thy Count pleads, what Fair his Suit canfiye?.
Or when thy Nymph laments, what Eyes are dry?
ev’n nature’s self hi Syfnpathy appears,
Tields Sigh for Sigh, and melts in equal Tears;
For
*
\
(
4
For such Defcriptioiis thus at once can proiie The force of Language, and the sweets of Love.
The myrtle’sleaves Pith those of Fame entwine,
\
\.
And ad the Glories of that Wreath are thine!
As Eagles can undaxzvd view the Force offcorchingpkatbus in his noonday Course,
Thy Genius to the God its Lustre plays.
Meets his Fierce Beams, and darts him Rays for Ra] Oh gldt'ious ftrtngth! Let each succeeding Page still boast those Charms and luminate the Age So ftjau thy beamful Fires with Light divine Rise to the Spheres, and there triumphant ftmie.
Richard Savagi
/ By an Unknown Hand
To the ihoft Ingenious Mrs. Haywood, C her NOVEL Entitled,  ,
A Stranger Muse, an Unbeliever too,
thatwomens Souls such strength ofvigoiir knei Nor less an Atheist to Love's pow’r declared,
Fill yqxj a Chathpion for the Sex appear’d!
A Convert kow, to both, I feel thdt Fire Your Words alone can paint! Yone Looks inspire Reftftlefs now. Loves Jbaftd. new pointed fty Winged with Your flame, aiid bldzing in your Eye With sweet, but pcw'rful force the Chdrm jhot Heart Receives tp Imprejfion of the Conqiierhtg Dart,) andfv’ry Arfry hiiggs the foi tipped fnart! %
\
No more, ofphxhus nfng vainly Boast, de tawny Sons of a luxuriant Coast!!
our blessed Ijle is with Jiich Rays replete,
Britain fljallgloir with more than Eaftefn Heat!
\
■.. V ’ s' : : ’nts .ts. ' ." 4rf. -- -
(
Love in excess s
OR, THE
¥
••
%
fatal enaulry.
• ^
Ik ' ^ .1 ’ i
Part the Second.
H ' • - ' .'■>'■
— I...... ...... ■ II ■■imiii mwm < tuirnmhmmmmmmmkmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
I
II E Coiitentiheiit that appear’d in the S Faces of the hew Married Pair, added
so much to the Impatience of the Che
b&illian to see his helov’d Ansellina, that in a few Days after the Wedding, he took leave of theni, nd departed for Amiens: But as human Happiness is seldom of long continuance, and Alow ISA placing the Ultimate of hers in the Pofleilion of her Charming Husband, secure of that, defpis’d all future Events ’twas time for Fortune, Who. long enough had fniird, now td turn her Wheel, and punish th ptefumptiou that
defy’d her Power;
B Mi
i
a.   f: Off
A s they were one Day at Dinner, a Messenger came to Acquaint Count d’elmgnt that Monsieur Frankville was taken suddenly fb violently 111, that his Physicians difpair’d of his Life, and that heheg’d to speak with him immediately: This Gentleman had been Guardian to the Count during his Minority, and the Care and Faithfulness with which that Truss: had been difcharg’d, made him with Reason regret the danger of Loling so good a Friend : He delay’d the Visit not a Moment, and found him as the Servant had told him, in a Condition as cou’d cherish no hopes of Recovery, as shon as he perceiv’d the Count come into the Chamber, he defir’d to be left alone with him, which Order being preshntljr obey’d. My dear Charge, (said he taking him by the Hand and yiref iing it to his trembling Boshm) you see me at the point of Death, but the knowledge of your many Virtues, and the Confidence I have that you will not deny me the request I am about to ask, makes me support the thoughts of it with Moderation. The other assuring him of his readiness to serve him in any Command, encourag’d the old Gentleman to prosecute his Dishoursh in this manner : You are not Ignorant my Lord (rejoin’d He) that my Son ' (the only one I have) is on his Travels, gone by any Approbation, and his own Desires to make th Tour of Europe but I have a Daughter, whose Protestion I wou’d entreat you to undertake 5 her Education in a Monastery has hitherto kept her entirely unacquainted with the Gayeties of a Court, or the Conversation of the Beau Monde, and I have sent for her to earl purposely to Introduce her in$o Company, proper for a young
Lady
t
#
% X

Lady, who I never defign’d for a Recluse; I know
not whether she will be here time enough to close my Eyes, but if you will promise to receive her into your House, and not suffer her art less and unexperienc’d Youth to fall into thole Snares which are daily laid for Innocence, and take fb far a Care, that neither she, nor the Fortune I leave her, be thrown away upon a Man unw’’orthy of her, I shall dye well latissy'd. Dtlmont answer’d this Request:, with repeated assurances of fulfilling it, and frankly offer’d, if he had no other Pershn in whom he rather wou’d confide, to take the management of the whole Estate he left behind him, ’till young Frankville should return — The anxious Father was transported at this Favour, and thank’d him in Terms full of Gratitude and Affestion; the?' Spent slime Hours in shttling this Affair, and perhaps had not ended it sh shon, if word had not been brought that the young Lady his Daughter was allighted at the Gate *, ’tis impossible to express the Joy which fill’d the old gentleman’s Heart at this News, and he began afresh to put the Count in mind of what he had promis’d concerning her: As they were in this endearing, tho’ mournful Entertainment, the matchless Melliora enter’d, the Surprise and Grief for her father’s Indisposition ('having heard of it but since she came into the Housh) hindered her from regarding anything but him, and throwing hershlf on her knees by the bed fide, wash’d the Hand which he stretch’d out to raish her with, in a flood of Tears, accompany’d with Expressions, which unstudy’d, and incoherent as they were, had a delicacy in ’em, that show’d her Wit not inferior to her Tenderness, and that no
B 2 Cir
f
A   : Off
Circumstance con d render her othorwile thgn thg most lovely Person in the World; when the firs transports of her Sorrow were over, and that with much ado she was persuaded to rise from the posture she was in : The Afflistion I see thee in my Dear Child, (said her Father) wou’d be a vast addition to the Agonies I feel, were I not so happy as to be provided wish Means for a mitigation of it, think not in loling me thou wilt be left wholly an Orphan, this worthy Lord will dry thyj Tears. Therefore, my last Comihands to thee shall be to oblige thee to endeavour to deserve the fa vourshe is pleas’d to do us in accepting thee for — He wou’d have proceeded, but his Physicians ('who had been in Copfultation in the next Room) coming in prevented him, and Count d’elmcnt taking the charming Mell iora by the Hand, led her to the Window, and beginning to speak slime words of Conshlation to her, the shftnefs of hi? I Voice, and graceful Manner with which he de 1 liver’d hjmfelf (always the inseparable Com paid 1 ons of his Discourse, but now more particularly fq) i made her cast her Eyes upon him, but alas, hel was not an Object to be safely gaz’d at, and in j spite pf the Grief she was in, she found shme 1 thing in his Form which dilfipated it -, a kind off painful Pleasure, a mixture of Surprise, and joyj. and doubt ran thro’ her in an instant, her Fathent Words shggested to her Imagination, that Ihe] was in a poliibility of calling tne charming Person[ [ stood before her, by a Name more tender j than that of Guardian, ' and all the Astions, Loob, [ and Address of d’elmont ferv’d but to constriii
her in that Belief. For now it was that this in'
'
-*
#
.
(
The Fatal Enquiryf 5
sensible began to feel the power of Beauty, and that Heart which had sh long been Impregnable liirrender’d in a Moment, the first sight of Mell i pra gave him a Dishompofure he had never felt before, he sympathiz’d in all her Sorrows, an was ready to join his Tears with hers, but when her Eyes met his, the God of Love ^em’d therq to have united all his Lightnings for bneeffestual Blaze, their Admiration of each others Perfestion? was mutual, and though' he had got the start in Love, as being touch’d with that Almighty Dart, before her Astiistion had given her Leave to regard him, yet the shftnefs of her Soul, shade up for that little doss of time, and it was hard to say whosh Paifion was the Strongest, she listened to his Coiir dolements, and assurances of everlasting Friend ihip with a pleasure which was but too visible in her Countenance, and moreenflam’d the Count. As they were exchanging Glances, as if each Vyed with the other who stiould dart the fiercest Rays, they heard a sort of ominous Whispering about the Bed, and presently one of thosh who stood near it beckon’d them to come thither; the Physicians had found Monjieur Frankville in a much worsh Condition than they left him in, and shon after perceiv’d evident Symptoms in Mm of approaching Death, and indeed there were but a very few Moments between him and that other unfathomable World; the ush of Speech had left him, and he cou’d take no other leave of his dear Daughter than with his Eyes 5 which shmetimes were cast tenderly on her, shmetimes on the Count, with a beseeching Look as it were to Conjure him to be careful to his Charge, then up to Heaven, as witness of the Trust he repos’d in
him.
  : Off
him. There cou’d not he a Scene more Melaiir cholly than this dumb Farewell, and Melliora, whose soft Disposition had never before beeii ihock’d, had not Courage to support fb dreadful a one as this, but fell upon the Bed just as her Father breath’d his last, as motionless as he. It is impostible to represent the agony’s which fill’d the Heart of d’elmont at this View, he took her in his Arms, and ashsted those wsho were endeavouring to recover her, with a wildness in his Countenance, a trembling Horror Shaking all his Fabric in such a manner, as might have easily difcover’d to the Spectators (if they had not been too busily employed to take notice of it) that he was Actuated by a motive far more powerful than that of Compassion. As shon as Ihe came to herself, they forc’d her from the dead Body of her Father (to which she Clung) and carried her into another Room, and it being judg’d convenient that she should be remov’d from that House, where everything wou’d serve but to reinind her of her Loss; the Count defir’d the Servants of Moitjieur Frankville shou’d be call’d, and then in the presence of ’em all, declar’d their master’s last Request, and order’d an Account of all Affairs shou’d be brought to his Housh, where he wou’d immediately con dust their young Lady as he had promis’d to her Father. If Melliora had been without any other cause of Grief, this Eclairciffiment had been sufficient to have made her Miserable: She had already entertained a most tender Affestion for the Count, and had not so little discernment as not to be sensible she had made the like im prdfion on him; but now she wak’d asifrom a
Dream
1
  ^
Dream of promis’d Joys, to certain Woes, and the same Hour which gave birth to her Pallion, commenc’d an adequate Despair, and kill’d her Hopes just buddirig.
*
Indeed there never was any Condition fb truly deplorable as that of this unfortunate Lady; she bad just lost a dear and tender Father, whose Care was ever watchful for her, her Brother was far off and she had no other Relation in the World to apply her self to for Comfort, or Advice 5 not e ven an Acquaintance at Paris, or Friend, biit him who but newly was become lb, and whom she found it dangerous to make use of, whom she knew it was a crime to Love, yet cou’d not help Loving 5 the more she Thought, the more she grew Distrained, and the less able to resolve on anything s a thoussnd Times she call’d on Death to give her ease, but that pale Tyrant flies from the Pursher, she had not been yet long enough acquainted with the ills of Life, and must endure howmnwilling foever) her part of Sufferings in common with the rest of humankind.
A s soon as d’elmont had given some necessary Directions to the Servants, he came to the Couch, where she was sitting in a' fix’d and filent Sorrow (tho’ inwardly toss’d with various and and violent Agitations) and offering her his Hand entreated her to permit him to wait on her from that House of Woe. Alas! said she, to what purpose shoifd I remove, who bear my Miseries about me? Wretch that I am! — a stood of Tears, here interpos’d, and hindered her from proceeding, which falling from such lovely Eyes, had a Mag
netick
 : Oss
, ■ * •
iietick Influence to draw the same from every beholder; but d’elmont who knew that was not the way to Comfort her,, dry’d his as fbon as possible, and once more begged fne wmu’d depart • ruff fer my return then (answer’d she) to the Mona keryrffor what hare I to do inb«m, since I have lost my Father? jby no means Madiam sreshm’d the Count hastily) that virere to disappoint your Fathers Designs, and contradict his last Denres, be leive ihost lovely, Melliof:! fcontinu’d he rating her by the Hand and letting fall some Teartf Which he coil’d noji: restrain, iipon it) that I bear slt least an equal Share in ycxiir Afflidioii, and la shefit for you, and foi my self: : a regard my grateful Soul paid Frankville for all
his wondrous Care. and Goodness to me, that in jfiis Death methinks I am twice an Orphan. But Tears are fruitless to reinfpire his now cold Clay, therefore must transmit the Love and Duty I wed him living to his Memory Dead, and an txact performance of his "Will; and since he thought me worthy of so vast a Trust as melli 6ra, I hope she will be guided by her Fathers Sentiments, and believe that d’elmont (tho’a, Stranger to her) has k Soul not uncapable of Friendship. Friendship 1 did I shy? (rejoyn’d he softening hi Voice) that term is too mean to express a Zeal like mine, the Care, the Tenderness, the Faith, the fond affe^ion of Parents, — Brothers, — Husbands— — all compriz’d in one I one great Unutterable! Comprehensive Meaning, is mine! is mine for Melliora I She return’d no Answer but Sighs', to all he said to her; but he renewing his Entreaties, ahd urging her father’s Commands, she was at last prevail’d upon to go
hittf
(

►
into hiss Chariot, which had waited at the Door all the Time of his being there;
4
A s they went, he left nothing nnsaid that he believ’d might tend to her Consolation, but she had Griefs which at present he was a Stranger to, and his Conversation, in which she found a thousand Charms, rather encreas’d, than diminish’d the trouble She was in : Every Word, every Look of his, was a fresh Dagger to her Heart, and III spite of the Love she bore her Father, and the unfeign’d Concern his shdden Death had given her, she was now convinc’d that C o tr st t d’el moht’s Perfections were her feverest: Wounds.
When they came to his House, He presented her to Alovysa, and giving her a brief Account of what had happened, ^ engag’d that Lady to receive her with all immaginable Demonstrations of Civility and Kindness.
H E loon left the two Ladies together, pretending Business, but indeed to satisfy his Impatience, which long’d for an opportunity to meditate on this Adventure. But his Reflections were now grown far less pleasing than they ushd to be; real Sighs flew from his Breast uncall’d: And Mell iora’s Image in dazzling Brightness I in terrible Array of killing Charms i fir’d Him with (impossible to be attain’d Desires) he found by Experience what it was to Love, and to Despair. He admir’d 1 ador’d! and wish’d, e vento Madness!! had too much Honour, tod much Gratitude for the Memory of Monsieur F R A N C K VI LL e, and too sincere an Awe for
C th
C. f
t I
l,
, o   ljcy
i ^
'the lovely Cause of his Uneasiness, than to form a Thought that cou’d encourage his new Passion; What wou’d he not have given to have heeii/un, married? How often did he Curse the Hour in which Al ovy sa’s fondness was difcover’d? and how much more, his own Ambition which prompted him to take advantage of it? and hurry’d him Preripitalty to a Hymen, where Love, (the noblest: Guest:) was wanting. It was in these racks of Thought that the unfortunate A M E N A was remember’d, aiid he cou’d not forbear acknowledging the Jiiftice of that Doom, which Instidted on him, these very Torments he had given her. A severe Repentance feiz’d on his Soul, and Alovysa for whom he never had anything more than an Indifferency; now began to seem Diftaftful to his Fancy, he look’d on her, as indeed She was, the chief Author of Amen a’s Misfortunes, and abhorr’d her for that Infidelity, But when he confider’d her, as the Bar ’twixt Him and Melliora fly appear’d like his ill Genius to him, and he cou’d not flipport the Thoughts of being obliged to Love her (or at least: to seem as if he did) with Moderation. In the midst: of these Reflections, his Servant came in and deliver’d this Letter to him which had been just left by the Post. The Count immediately knew the Hand to be Amen a’s, and was cover’d with the utmost
Confusion and Remorse when he read these Lines,
\ •
To
->
  j i
To the too Charming and Perfidious
D’ E L M O N T.
t
* \
NOW Hop es, ani Fears, and yealoiijies are
over! Doubt is no more! you are for ever loji! and my unfaithful, happy Rival! 'Triumphs in
your Arms, and my Undoing! -- -- -- -1 need not wifi)
you foi, the hast you made to enter into hymeps Bonds, and the more than ordinary Pomp with which that Ceremony was Celebrated, afures mf you are highly satisfied with your Condition and that any future 'Teftitnonies of the friendftd.p of so wretched a Creature as Amen a, wou’d be receiv’d by you, with the same Disregard' ' those fte has given yott of a more tender Pajfion. — Shameful Remembrance I
Oh that I coifd Blot it out! -- -- Erace from the
Book of Time those fond deluded Hours! Forget I ever saw the Lovely false D’ E L m o n T! Ever liftned to his soft persuasive Accents! arid Thought
his Love a mighty Price for Ruin I -- -- My father
writes that you are Married, Commands my Return to Paris, and a (fume an Air as Gay, and Cheerful as
that with which I used to appear. -- -- Alas! how
little does he know his Daughters Heart? And how impojfible is it, for me to Obey him, can I look on you as the Husband of Alovysa, without re membring you were once the Lover of A M E N A? Can Love like mine so fierce, so pajjionately, tender, e’re fink to a Calm, cold Indifference? Can I behold the fond Endearments of your bridal foys (which you’d not be able to Refrain, even before me) and not burr ft with Envy? No, the Sight wou’d turn me quite diftrabed, and I jitoifd commit some Desperate Violence that woifd Undosus all. -- Therefore, I hide
C 2 wy
/
12 Love in Excefr Off
my self for ever from, it, hid an everlajling Adieu tg alt the gay Delights and Pleasures of my Touth.
To dll the Pomp and Splendour of the Court. -- To
all that the wijiaken World calls Happiness— — Father, Friends, Relations, all that’s Dear. — -- But your Idea, and that, ndf even these confecratei Walls, nor Iron Gates keep out. Sleeping, or Waking you are ever with me, you mingle with my most solemn Devotions •, and while I Fray to Iieaveji that I may think on you no more : A guilty Pleasure rises in Soul, and contradibs my Vows I All my Confejjio'm are so many Sins, and the same Breath which tells my Qhoftly Father I abjure youf Memory, speaks your dear Naim with Transport. Tes — Cruel! Ungrateful,! -- Faithless as you are, 1 still do Love you -- --
Love you to that infinite Degree, that now, jnethinh fir’d with thy Charms (repenting all i’ve said) I cou d wifi) even Io renew those Moments of my Ruin! — — > Pity me d’e L M o N T, if thou hast Humanity— — what the rackhtgs of my Soul must be, when I resolve, with all this Love, this Languiftmejit about me • never to see you more.
Everything is preparing for my Reception into holy Orders, (how unfit I am Heaven knows) and in a few Days I fteall put on the Vail which excludes ns from the World for ever -, therefore, if these di ftrabed Lines are worth ai a7ifwer it ?nuft be speedy, or it will not come to m Hands. Perhaps jiot find me Living— — can 710 more — Farewell (thou dear bt ftfoyer of my Soul.)
'Eternally Farewell, Amena,
F. S. I do not urge you to write, Alovy fa tss wdsli 1 cou d not Say your Wife) will perhaps think it too great a Condescension, and not sus
tk'
\
 2
ter you so long from her Embraces. — Yet if you can get Ipole. — But you know best what’s proper
to be done -- Forgive the reftlefhefs of a dif
pairing Wretch, who cannot cease to Love, tho’ from this Moment she must: cease to tell you so — Once more, and for Ever. Adieu.
Had this Letter came a Day sooner, ’ti^ probable it wou’d have had but little Effect ost the Soul of d’elmont, but his Sentiments of Love were now fb wholly chang’d, that what before he wou’d but have laugh’d at, and perhaps difpis’d, now fill’d him with Remorse and serious Anguish. He read it over several Times, and found sh many Proofs in it of a sincere and constant Affection, that he began to pity Her, with a Tenderness like that of a Relation, but no more: The charming Melliora had en grofs’d all his fonder Wishes; elfe it is not impossible but that Alovysa might have had more Reashn to fear her Rivalry after Marriage than before. That Lady having been without the presence of her dear Husband some Hours, had not patience to remain any longer without sheing Him, and making an excuse to Melliora for leaving her alone, came run in g to the Closet where he was •, how unwelcome she was grown, the Reader may imagine, hereceiv’d her, not as he was wont; the Gaity which used to sparkle in his Eyes, (at once declaring, and creating Amorous desires) now gave place to a Sullen gloominess, he look’d not on her, or if by chance he did *, ’twas more with Anger than witji Love, In spite of his endeavours to conceal it, she was too quick Sighted all are that truly
Love)
\
/
1  : Off
Love) not to be sensible of this Alteration. However she took no notice of it, but Kiifmg an Embracing him (according to her Custom whei ever they were alone) beg’d him to leave h fblitary Amusement, and help her to Comfoj the afflicted Lady he brought there. Her Ei dearments ferv’d but to increase his Peevishnef land heighten her Surprise at his Behaviour; ah indeed, the Moment that she enter’d the clost was the last of her Tranquillity.
$
When with much perfwasions she had prt vail’d with him to go with her in o the Rooi:. where Mell iora was, he appeared so dii ordered at the second Sight of that Charmer, a wou’d certainly have let Alovy s a into th secret of his Passion, had she not been retir’d t n Window to recover her self from the Confii lion, her Husbands coldness had thrown her in
/ 7 ... 4- ^
and by that fortunate disregard of his Looks a that critical Instant, given him (who never want ed presence of Miiid) leave to form both hi; Countenance and manner of Address, fb as tc give no suspicion of the Truth.
This little Company was very far from being Entertaining to one another; every one had their particular Cogitations, and were not dif pleas’d not to be Interrupted in them. It growing late, Alovysa conducted Mell iqra to a Chamber which she had order’d to be prepar’d for her, and then retir’d to her own, hoping that when the C o u n t stiou’d come to Bed, she might be able to make some Discovery of the Cause of his Uneasiness. But she was deceiv’d,
he
I
I
I
  try
he fpolce not to her, and when hy a thousand little Inventions She urg’d him to reply to what she said, it was in shch a fashion as only let her see, that he was extremely troubled at something, but cost’d not guess at what. As shon as Day broke, he rose, and shutting himself into his Closet, left her in the greatest Consternation immaginable - she cou’d not think it possible that the Death of Monjieur Fra nkville shou’d work this Tranfformation, and knew of no other Misfortune that had happened. At last she remembered she had heard one of the Servants say, a Letter was brought to their Master by the Port, and began to refiedt on everything (in the power of Fortune to determine) that cou’d threaten a Disturbance, yet was still as Ignorant as ever. She lay not long in Bed, but putting on her Clothes with more Expedition than usual, went to the Closet, reshlving to speak to him in a manner as shoifd oblige him to put an end to the uncertainty she was in, but finding the Door lock’d, her Curiosity made her look thro’the Keyhole, and file saw him sometimes very intentively reading a Letter; and shmetimes Writing, as tho’ it were an Answer to it. A shdden Thought came into her Head;, and she immediately went softly from the place where' she was, without knocking at the Door, and stay’d in a little Chamber adjacent to it, where none cou’d pass either to, or from the Closet, without being perceiv’d by her; she had not waited long, before she heard the Count Ring, and presently saw a Servant enter, and soon after return with a Letter in his Hand she wou’d not speak to him then, for fear of being over heard by her Husband,
but
f. V— — ...■/•

is Love in lexcess : Off
but followed bim downstairs, and wbeii he canie towards the bottom, call’d to him in a low Voice to tarry hi she came to him; the Fellow durst not but Obe}^, and there being no body near ’em, ' commanded hini to deliversher the Letter; But he either afraid or unwilling to betray his Trust, excus’d himself from it as well as he cou’d, but she was refblv’d to have it *, and when Threats i wou’d not avail, condifcended to Entreaties, to | which she added Bribes, which last Article join’d io the promise she made of never revealing it, won him to her Purpose., She had scarce patience to forbear opening it before she got to her gham d ber : The Supershription (which she faw' w’as for; Am E N a) fir’d her with Disdain and jealousy, ' and it is hardly poshble to immagine, much less to difcribe the Torrent of her Indignation, when she found that it contain’d these Words.
I
To the Lovdy A M E N A.
» I
YOU accuse me of Cruelty, when at the famsi
Time you kill me with, yours: Haw Vile! Howl despicable, mufti be grown in your Opinion, when you I
believe I can be Happy, when you are Miserable- -- |
I enjoy the Pleasures of a Court, while you art ftmt within a Cloister f -- shall I suffer the World to be depriv’d of such a Treasure A M e N a ^ for
the Crime of worthless d’e L m o n t -- -- -- No, no
Fair, injiipd Softness, Return, and bless the Eyes of every Beholder! Shine out again in your native Liftre, uneclips'd by Grief. The Star of Beauty ani the guide of Love— — if my unlucky fre fence will be a Damp to the Brightness of your Sires,
I will for ever guitthe Place. ■ — »tho’ I copd wif,
— • — ^ w - - - --.
A
I
I
. * ' ' '
The Fatal Inquiry ij
'*
rit last it put, ’em all to flight, and gain’cl sh entire a Vidpry, that before Morning, of all her Troubles, scarce any but the fears of Ipfing you remain’d. And I must take the Liberty to afliire your Lordship, my Endeavours were not wanting to establish a resolution in her to despise everything for Love and you. But to be as brief as I can in my Relation 5 the Night was no shoner gone, than Mbnfieur her Father came into the Chamber, with a Countenance, tho’ more com pos’d than that with which he lest us, yet with such an Heir of Austerity, as niade any timorous Lady lose most of the Spirit fne had affiim’d for this Encounter. I come not now A m e N 1, said he, to upbraid or punish, your Dishbedience, if yoii are not wholly abandoif d by your Reason, your own Refiestions will be Sufficiently your Tormentor But to put you in a way, (if not to clear your Fame, yet to take away all occasion of future Calumny,) you itiust write to Count D’ e l m o N T.
1
. • f •
IW illshaveno Denials continu’d he, (feeing her about to speak) and leading her to her Efcritore, constrain’tl her to write what he dictated, and you receiv’d; just as she was going to Seal ist a Servant brought word that a Gentleman defir’d to speak with Monsieur safseverin;, he was o blig’d to step into another Room, and that absence gave her an opportunity of writing a Note, which file dextrously flip’d into the Letter, unperceiv’d by her Father at his return, who little fuspesting what fly had done, sentit away iirt" mediately. Now, said he, we shall be able to '
judge of the sincerity of the count’s Afledions, blit till then I sh^ll take care to prove myself a Per ^
fori
- ' I
IS   r * Off
!
fon not disinterested in the Honour of isty Family. As he spoke these words, he took her by the Hand, and conducing her thro’ his own ' into ^ little Chamber (which he had order’d to be made ready for that purpose') shut her into it •, I fob low’d to the Door, and seconded my Lady iirher Deiireg, that I might be permitted to attend her there i but all in vain, he told mej he doubted iiot but that I had been her Confident in this af fak, and order ’d me to quit his House in a few .Days. A soon as he wasrgone out, T wenst into the Garden, and faunter’d up and down a gbod while, hoping to get an Opportunity of fpeakhig 'to my Lady through the Window, for I knew there was bne that look’d into it but not feeirig'lid, i bethought me of getting a little Sticky With which I knock’d gently against the Glass, and dri gag’d her to open it. As soon as she perceiv’d me, a Beam of Joy brightn’d in her Eyes, and glisten’d thro’ her Tears. Dear A n a R e t. Said j ihe, how kindly do I take this proof of thy Affection, ’tis only in thy Power to alleviate my Misfortunes, and thou I know art come to offer thy Assistance. Then after I had assur’d her of my willingness to serve her in any command, Ihe dessr’d me to wait on you with an account of all had happeii’d, and to give you her Vows of as eternal Love. My Eyes, said she weeping, perhaps may ne’er behold him more, but Imagination shall Suppty that want, and from my Heart be never shall be Absent. Oh Ido not talk thus, cry’d the Cotint, extremely touch’d at this Discourse. I must, I will see her, nothing shall hold her from me. youm.ay, answer’d Anaret, but then it must be with the Approbation of Mon sseur S A N s E V E R I N, he will be proud to receive
you

jqu ill Quality of a Suitor to his Daughter, and ssis only to oblige you to a imblick Declaration that he takes these Meafiares. D’ e L m o n t was not persestly pleas’d with these Words 5 he was too quick %hted not to perceive immediately what Monsieur Sansever in drove at, but as well as he lik’d A m B n a, found no inclination in himself to Marry her; and theresore was not desirous of an Explanation of what he refolv’d not to seem to understand. He walk’d two or three turns about the Room, endeavouring to conceal his Disgust, and when he had so well overcome the shock, as to banish all visible Tokens of it, I would willingly said he coldly, come into any proper Method for the obtaining the Pershn of Amen A, as well as her Heart; but there ate certain Reasons for which I cannot make a Dishovery of my .Designs to her Father, ’till I ha ve first spoken with her,, My lf^rd, reply’d the Subtle A n ar
E T (easily guessing at his Meaning) I wish to Heaven there were a possibility of your Meeting; there is nothing I would not rifqiie to forward it, and if your Lordship can think of ny way in wffxich I may be shrviceable toiyou, in this short Time I am allow’d to stay in the Family, I beg you would command me. She spoke this with an Air as made the Coiiiit believe ihe really had it in her Power to ferx^e him in this Occasion, and presently hit on the surest means to bind her to his Interest. You are very obliging, said he, and t doubt not but your Ingenuity is equal to your good Nature, therefore will leave the Contrivance of my happiness entirely to you; and that you may not think your Care bestow’d on an nngratesul Pershn, be pleas’d (continu’d he, gi ^
her a Purse of lewis dops) to accept this
D 2 small,,
Love in excessoff
small Earnest of my futtire Friendship. A n ar E T like most Of her Funstion, was too merch iiary to resist Such a Teiriptaion, though it had been given het to betray the Hdiiour of her whole ei; and after a little pause, reppy’d, Your Lordship is too gendrous to be refus’d, tho’ in 'a Matter of the greatest Difficulty, as indeed this is; for in the strist Confinement my Lady is, I know no way but one, and that extremely hazardous td her *, however, I do not fear but by isty perfwa fions, joyh’d with her own Desires, will influence her to attempt ist Your Lordship knows we have a little Door at the farther end of the Garden, that Opens into the'twfissry.?. I do cry’d idshlmo'nt interriiptingher, I have several tirnes parted from my Charmer there, when my Entreaties have prevail’d with her to stay longer with nie than she wou’d have the Fairiily to take iiiotice of. I hope to order the Matter so, reshshss A N A R E T, that it shall be the Scene this Night of a'rhosh happy Meeting. My Lady unknown to her Father has the Key of it, she can throw it to me from her Window, ^tid I can open it to you, who must b walking near ist about tv/elye or One a Clock, for by that tiitie everybody will be in Bed. But what will that avail, cry’d D’ e l 3^ o N t' hastily; Since She lies within her Fasher s Chamber, jwhere ’tis imposhble to pass without alarming him. You Lovers are so impatient rejoyn’d A N A R E T fitiiling, 1 never defign’d you should have Entrance there, tho’ the Window is ' sh low, that a Person of your lordfliip’s Stature and Ability might inount it with a Galliard step, V but I Suppose it will turn to as good an account,
is your Mistress by my Ashstance gets out of II But can she, interrupted hst will she dost thou
<4 I
  X
think, fear it not. My Lord, reply’d she, he but punstualto the Hour Amen a, shall be yours, if
Love, Wit atistl0pportunity have power to make her So. D’ E L M Q N T was transported with this Promise, and the thoughts of what he expested to .postefs by her means, rais’d his Imagination to fb high a pitch, as he cou’d not forbear kissing and embracing her with such Raptures, as might not nave been very pleasing to A M e N a, had she been witness of ’em. But An A R et who had other things in her Head than Gallantry, difen* gag’d her self from him as shon she coifd, taking more fatisfastion in forwarding an Affair in which she propos’d sh much advantage, than in the Caresses of the most accomplish’d Gentleman in fh^ World.
4
t
•. f ' ’
When she came Horn she found everything as she cou’d wish, Monjieur Abroad, and his Daughter at the Window, impatiently watching her return, she told her as much of the Difcoursh she had with the Count as she thought proper, ■extolling his Love and Constancy, and carefully concealing all she thought might give an umbrage to her Virtue. But in spite of all the Artifice she made use of, she found it no easse matter to persuade her to get out of the Window; the fears she had of being difcover’d, and more ex ])os’d to her father’s Indignation, and the Censure of the World, damp’d her Inclinations, and made her deaf to the eager Solicitations of this unfaithful Woman. As they were Disputing, slime of the Servants hap’ing to come into the Garden, o bfig’d ’em to break ost; and A n a r e t retir’d, not totally despairing of compaising lier de iigns, when the appointed Hour should arrive,
'and
s.
a 2 ' ’   ^ Off
I
and. A M E N A Should know the darling Ohjest of her Wishes was fb near. Nor did her Hopes deceive her, the Resolutions of a Lover, when made against the interest of the Person helov’d, are but of a short duration; and this unhappy Fair was no sooner left alone, and had leisure to Contemplate on the Graces of the charming D’ e L m q n T, but Love plaid his ptt with such Success as made her repent she had chid A N A R n T fpt Proposal, and wish’d for nothing shore than an Opportunity to tell her so. She pafsm several Hours in Disquietudes she had never known before,
II.
till at last she heard her Father come into the next Room to go to Bed, and soon after somebody knock’d softly at the Window, she immediately open’d it, and perceiv’d by the Light of the Moon which then shone very bright, that it was An A ret, file had not x'^atience to listento the long Speech the other had prepar’d to persuade her, but putting her Head as Saras she could to prevent being heard by her Father.well ANARET, faidshe, where is this Adventurous Lover, what is it he requires of me? Oh I Madam,, reply’d she, overjoy’d at the compliable Humour she found her in, he is now at the Garden Door, there’s nothing 'vvaiiting but )mur Key to give him Entrance y what farther he requests himself shall tell you. Oh Heavens! cry’d A m n a Searching her Pockets, and finding she had it not; lam undone, I have left it in my Cabinet in the Chamber where 1 us’d to lie. these words made A N a r e t at her Wits end, she knew there was no possibility of fetching it, there being so many Rooms to gp through, she rail to the Door,, and endeavour’d to push bak the Lock, but had not strength,; she then knew not what to do, she was Sure d’el
^ 4
MONT
m
N
I
i
.
The Fatal Inquiry I 25
k 6 U T was on the other fide, and fear’d he would resent this usage to the disappointment of all her merbenary Hopes, and durst not call to acquaint him with his misfortune for fear of being heard.
As for A M E H A, she was now more sensible than ever of the violence of her Inclinations, by the iextireani vexation this Disappointment gave her *. Never did People pafs a Night in greater uneali nefsj than these three; the coti7tt who was naturally impatient could not bear a baulk of this nay ture\ without the utmost chagrin. Amena
l^in^ish’d, and A n a r e t fretted to Death, tho’
Ihe refblv’d to leave no Stone unturn’d to fet all
'. - •. i. *
right again. Early in the Morning she went to his Lodgings, and found him in a very ill Humour, but she easily pacify’d him, by representing with a great deal of real Grief, the ilccident that retarded his Happiness, and affii ting him there was nothing cou’d hinder the fulfilling it. The next Night, when she had gain’d this Point, she came Home, and got the Kejr into her postellionjbut could not get an opportunity all Day of speaking to her Lady, Monsieur Sanfeverin did not stir out of Doors, and spent most of it with his Daughter; in his Discourse to her, he fet the Pastion the Count had for her in sh true
*
a light, that it made a very great alteration in her Sentiments •, and she began to rested: on the Cendefcenfions she had given a Man who had never sh much as mention’d Marriage to her with so ^ much shame, as almost overwhelm’d her Love, and she was now determin’d never to she him, till he should declare himshlf to her Father in such a manner as would be for her Honour,
In
3  * Off
».. ^ \
IN the mean time A n a r e t waited with a
great deal of Iiripatience for the Family going td Bed; and as shon as all was hush ran to give the Count Admittance; and leaving him in an Alley on the farther fide ojf the g^rdsti, made the accu t stom’d Sign at the Window. A M e n a presently open’d it, but instead df staying to hear what she would say, threw a Letter out. Carry that, ^ said she, to Count d’e L m o n f, let him kho# the Contents of it are wholly the result of my own Reason. And as for your part, I charge you trouble me no farther on this Subjest; thmi shut' ting the Casement hastily, left A N ic r e t in a strange Consteniation at this sudden Change of her Humour j however she niade no delay, but running to the Place where the Count waited her return, deliver’d him the Letter, but advis’d him (who was ready enough of himself) not to obey any Commands might be given him' to the hindrance of his Designs. The Moon as then at the full, and gave so clear a Light, that he easily found it contain’d these Words.
♦
i
/
*
%
*
/
%
 5
this Author ever seen Mel hora, his Sentiments had been otherwise than now they seem to be, and he wou’d have been able to write of nothing elfe but Love and herm ell iora blush’d Extremely at his nnexpested Presence, and the Compliment he made Her; but recollesting her self as fbon as she cou’d: I have a better Opinion of Monsieur l’f o n t e n e L L e, (answer’d she) but if I were really miftress of as many. Charms as you wou’d make me believe, I should think my self little beholding to Nature, for bestowing them on me, if by their means I were depriv’d of so choice an Improvement as thss Book has given me. Thank Heaven then Madam, (refum’d he) that you were born in an Age shccdlive to that which has produc’d so many fine Treatises of this kind for your enter tainshbnt *, since (I am very Confident) this, and a long Space of future Time will have no other Therne, but that which at present you seem sh much aversh to. Melliora found so much difficulty in endeavouring to Conceal the disorder she was in at this Discourse, that it rendered her unable to reply; and He, (who possibly guest the occasion of her silence) taking one of her Hands arid tenderly pressing it between his, look’d sh full in her Eyes, as heighthen’d her Confusion, and difcover’d to his ravish’d View, what most
k _ w *
he wish’d to find : Ambition, Envy, Hate, Fear, or Anger, every other Paifion that finds Entrance in the Soul, Art, and Discretion, may Disguise, but Love, tho’ it may be feign’d, can never be conceal’d, not only the Eyes ('those true and most Perfect: Intelligencers of the Heart) but every feature, every faculty betrays it! 11
E fills
^ : Otj
fills the whole Air of the Person poflest with it; it wanders round the Mouth! plays in the Voice! trembles in the Accent! and shows itself a thousand different, nameless ways L evenme ll IOR Ass Care to hide it, made it more Aparent, and the Transported D’ e L m o N t not considering where he was, or who might be witness of his rapture, cou’d not forbear Catching her in his Arms, and grasping her with an Extalie, which plainly told her what his thoughts were, tho’ at that time he had hot Power to put ’em into Words • and indeed there is no greater proof of a Vast and Elegant Passion, than the being uiv
capable of Expressing it: -- -- He had perhaps I
X held her in this strist embrace, still shine Acci* I dent had difcover’d and shparated him from herj I if the Alarm this manner of Proceeding gave I her Modesty, had not made her force her self I
from him. -- -- They both stood in a filent Con 1
stbrnation, nor was he much less dishrder’d at I the Temerity, the violence of his ungovernable | Passion had made him guilty of, than she, was at the | Liberty he had taken, he knew not how to Excuse, I nor she, to Reproach Refpest (the constant Atten 1 danton a sincere affeclion) had tied his Tongue, | and shame mixed with the uncertainty after what I manner she shou’d reshnt it. Hers. At lash the I Natural Confidence of his Sex encourag’d him I to break this mute Entertainment. — There are! Times Madam (said he) in which the wifesthavej " not Power over their own Astions — If there
fore I have offended, impute not the Crime to me, but that unavoidable impulsh which for a Moment hurry’d me from my self; for be assured while d’elmont can Command his .Thoughts they shall be llioft obedient to your
“-- -- -- -- -- -- Wishes
r
  ay
Wishes -- -- -- asmelliora was about to
reply, she Saw a Servant coming hastily to Speak to the Count, and was not a little glad of sh favourable an opportunity to retire without being oblig’d to continue a Discourse in which she must either lay a severe Punishment on her in dinations by making a quarrel with him, or by forgiving him too easily Trcl]: >afs against the strist Precepts of Virtue she had always profess’d : She made what haste she cou’d into her Chamber, and carry’d with her a World of troubled Meditations, she now no longer doubted of the count’s Pallion, and trembled with the Apprehension of what he might in time be prompted to; but when she Reflested how dear that Pershn she had so much cause to fear, was to her, she thought her shlf, at once the most unfortunate and most Guilty of her Sex.
The Servant who gave ’em this seasonable Interruption delivered a Letter to his Master, which he opening hastily, knowing that it came from his Brother by the Seal, found the Contents as follows.
I hop’d (my Dearest Friend, and Brother) hy this day to have embrac’d yott, but Fortune takes delight to disappoint our wiftees, when highest rais’d, and nearest to their Aim. — - The Letter I carfy’d from her, whom I think it my Happiness to callsi fter joyn’d with my own Faith, Love, and ajji duity; at length triumph’d over all the little slice ties and objebhons my Charmer made againji our Journey, and (lie Condescended to order every thi)tg requiftte for our departure from Amiens fteoiid bo got ready. — But how jltau I Express the Grief, the Horror, the diftrabhon of my Soul, when the very
E 2 Evening
i
0
2 : Ocy
\
Evening before the Day we poll’d have fet out, as I was sitting yith her, a sudden, hut terrible lunefs., like the Hand of Death seized on her, pe fell oh! ny Brother) Cold, and Speechlefs In my Arms — ^ Guess, what I endupd at that affibing Moment, all that I had of Man, or Reason left me and fun had mt the Care of the Baroness aytd some other Ladies (whom my Cries drew in to her ajfiflance) in a little time recover’d her, I had not now furviv’d to give you this Account : Again, I saw the Beauties of her Eyes, again I heard her Voice, but her disorder was yetfo great that it was thought convenient jhefijou’l he put to Bed -, the Barronefs feeing my Despair, def red me ?wt to quit her House, and by that meam I had news every Hour, how her Feavor encreas’i, or abated, for the Fhyfid and being defin’d to deal free ly, affiipd us, that washer Difiemper : For several days fije continu’d in a Condition that cou’d give m no hopes of her Recovery in which time as you may imagine, I was little Capable of Writing. — — The wildness of my unruly Grief, made me not he permitted to come into her Chamber but they coui wt without they had inade use of force, hinder me from lying at her Door : I Counted all her Groans, hdard every sigh, the violence of her Fain drew from her, and watcpd the Countenance of every Ferfon who came nut of her Chamber, as Men who wou d form a fudgment of future Consequences, do the Signs in Heaven. ~ but I trouble you with this tedious recital, site is now, if there is ayiy Dependance on the dobors shill, past Danger, tho’ not fit to Travel at leafi this Month, which gives no small Alleviation to the greatness of my foys (which otherwise would be unbounded) for her Recovery, since it occasions so long a Separation from the best of Brothers, and of Friends : Farewell, may aj
yonr
/
i
 9
your wipes meet success, ani an Eternal round of Happiness attend you; to add to mine, I beg you’ll write by the first Soft, which next to feeing you, is the gretmeft I can Taste. I am my Lord with all imaginable Tenderness and refpeb your most affebio mte Brother and Humble Servant.
f
Bril L 1 A N.
• «
i *
The Count judged it proper that' Al ovy SA shou’d see this Letter, because it fb much concerned her Sister, and was ordering the Servant to carry it to her, (not being willing himself to speak to her) just as she was coming towards him : she had received a Letter from the _ / _
Barroness De Deronvill, at the same time that the Chevalier brillian’s was brought and was glad to take the opportunity of Communicating the Contents of it, in hopes by this Conversation to be reconcil’d to her Husband : But the gloomy sullenness of the Humour he had left her with, return’d at light of her, and after some little Difeoursh of Family Affairs, which he could not avoid answering, walk’d Carelessly away. She follow’d him at a distance still he was got up to the Gallery, and perceiving he went toward his Closet, mended her pace and was close to him when he was going in. My Lord (said she) with a voice but half affur’d and which wou’d not have given her leave to utter more, if he had not interrupted her, by telling her he wou’d be alone, and fliutting the Door hastily upon her, but she prevented his Locking of it by pushing against it withal her force, and he, not exerting his, for fear of hurting
't
5 : Ory
ing her, fuffer’d het Entrance : But look’d on her with a Countenance sh forbidding, as in spite of the Natural Haughtiness of her Temper, and the Reshlutibn she had made to peak to him, rendered her unable for some Moments to bring forth a Word; but the filent grief, which appeared ill her Face, pleaded more with the good Nature of the Count, than anything she couss have said: He began to pity the unhappiness of her too violent Affestion, and to wish himsslf in a Capacity of returning it, however, he (like most Husbands) thought it best to keep up his Reshntments, and take this opportunity of Qiael I Jing all the Woman in her Soul, and hum 1 bling all the little, remains of pride that Love I had left her. Madam, (reshm’d he) with an Ac 1 cent, which tho’ shmething more shftened, was I still imperious enough, if you have anything of I Conshquence to impart to me, I desire you will I be as brief as you can, for I wou’d be left to the I freedom of my Thoughts — Al o V y s a cou’d not I yet answer, but letting fall a Shower of Tears, I and throwing her self on the Ground, Embrac’31 his knees with so Pashonate a Tenderness, as I sufficiently expressed her Repentance for having I been Guilty of anything to dishblige him: d’elmont was most sensibly touch’d at this Behaviour, so vastly different from what he cou’d have expested from the greatest of her Spirit, and raising her with an obliging Air. I am Sorry (said he) that anything ihou’d happen to occasion this Submission, but since what’s past, is out of either of our Powers to recall: I shall endeavour to think of it no more, provided you’l proinife me, never for the future to be guilty of anything

 1
thing which may give me an uneasiness by the
sight of yours -- -- ’tis impossible to Represent
the Transport of Alovysa at this kind Expression, she hung upon his neck, kissed the dear Mouth which had pronounc’d her Pardon with Raptures of unspeakable delight; she ssgh’d with Pleasure, as before she had done with Pain, she wept, she even dy’d with Joy! — No, no my Lord, my Life, my Angel, (Cried she, assoon as she had power to speak) I never will offend ymu more, no more be jealous y no more be doubtful of my happiness / and will be only mine, I know you will -- -- Your kind forgiveness
of my folly, ashires me that you are mine, not more by Duty, than by Love! A tie far more valuable than that of Marriage. The Count Conscious of her mistake had much ado to Conceal his Disorder at these Words, and being unwilling she shou’d proceed; as soon as he cou’d (without seeming unkind or rude) dif engage himself from her Arms, took a Pen in his Hand, which he told her he was about to employ in answering the' Chevelia?' brillian’s ' Letter : Alovysa who now reshlv’d an entire obedience to his Will, and remembering he had defir’d to be alone, withdrew, full of the Idea, of an immagin’d Felicity — Her Heart was now at ease, she believ’d, that if her Husband had any remains of Passion for Amen a, the impossibility of ever feeing her again, wou’d soon extinguish them, and since she was sh hap? pily reconcil’d, was far from repenting her Intercepting of his Letter : But poor Lady, she did not long enjoy this Peace of Mind, and this Intervall of Tranquillity ferv’d but to heighten,
her ensuing Mishries. The
0
\
I
  : Off
^!
The countss secret Passion for Mellio^ RA grew stronger by bis Endeavouring to fup press it, and perceiving that she Carefully a voided all opportunities of being alone with him one Moment, since his Behaviour to her in the Garden, he grew almost .Distrasted, with thecontinual restraint he was forced to put on all his Words and Astions : He durst not sigh, nor send an Amorous Glance for fear of offending her, and Alarming his Wives Jealousy, sh lately lull’d to steep : He had no Pershn in whom he had Confidence enough to trust with his mif fortune, and had certainly sunk under the pressure of it, if Alovysa who obshrving an Alteration in his Countenance and Humour, and fearing he was really indisposed (which was the excuse he made for his Melancholy) had not persuaded him to go into the Country, hoping that Change of Air inight do him good : He had a very fine Seat near Anjerville in the Province of lebeaujfe, which he had not been at in slime Years, and he was very willing to comply with Alovys Ass desires of jiaffing the remainder of the Summer in a Solitude, which was now become agreeable to him, the greatest Difficulty was in persuading Melliora to Accortipany them thither *, he guested by her referv’d Behaviour, that she only waited an opportunity to leave the place where he was, and was not mistaken in his Conjsssture; One day as they were talking of it, she told them that she was refolv’d to return to the Monastery where she had been Educated, that the World was too noisy a Place for one of her Taste, who had no relish
I
/
I
 3
'• T :. >
lish for any of the Diversions of it: Every word she (poke, was like a dagger to d^lmont’s tieart; yet he so Artfully manag’d his Endeavours, between the Authority of a Guardian, and the Entreaties of a Friend, that she was stt last overcome. .Dis hard for the feverest vir tue to deny themshlves the sight of the Pershn belov’d, and whatever Reshlutions we make there are but few, who like mellibra might iiot by shch a Lovet, be prevailed upon to break them.
I * * • »
A s shon as their Coming into the Country Was spread abroad, they were visited by all the Neighbouring People of Quality; bstt there was none sh welcome to d’elmont as the Baron d’esperitay; they had before the count’s going into the Army been very intimate acquaintance, and were eqstally glad of this opportunity to resteiv a Friendship, which Time and ab lence. had not entirely erac’d. The Bdron had a Sister jroung, and very, agreeable, bstt gay even to Coquetty; they liv’d together, being both single, and he brought her With him, hearing the Count was Marriedj to visit his Lady : There Were feveral other young Noble Men, and Ladies there a: the same time, and the Conversation grew" so delightfully Entertaining that it was impdlsible for Pershns less pre pofest than the Count and Mell ior a to retain their Chagriri, but tho’ there were scarce any in the Company that shight not have listhied With a pleas’d Attention, to, what .those twc admirable Persons yiere Capable of saying, yet their secret Sorrows kept them both in liieiice; >
F ’till
\ /,
•t
54 Love ih Excess: Off
■ ’till Melantha, for that was the Name of the Barons Sister took u]ion her, to divert the Company with some Verses on Love; which she took out of her Pocketbook and read to ’em : Everybody extoll’d the softness of the Style, and the Subject they were upon. But Melliora who was willing to take all opportunities of Condemning that Passion, as well to Conceal it in her self.. to check what ever hopes the Count inight have. Now Discovered the force of her Reafost, the Delicacy of her Wit, and th? penetration of her Judgement, in a manner so iweetly surprising to all that were Strangers to her, that they presently found, that it was not want of Noble, and truly agreeable Thoughts or Words to Express ’em, that had so long depriv’d them of the Pleasure of hearing her; she urg’d the Arguments file brought against the giving way to Love, and the Danger of all shft* ning Amusements, with such a becoming fierceness, as made everybody of the Opinion that she was born, only to Create Desire, not be susceptible of it her self. The Count as he was most Concerned, took the most particular notice of all she said, and was not a little alarm’d to see her appear so much in earnest, but durst not answer, or Endeavour to consute her, because of Alc* VYS Ass presence: But it was not long before he I had an opportunity, a few days after he met
with one, as full as he cou’d wish. Returning one Evening from the Baron d’e s p e R N ay’s whom he had now made the Confident of his Passion, and who had encourag’d him in it, he was told that alovysa was gone out to take the Air, and hearing no mention of melliora’s
\
\
*
 ^
ra’s, being with her, he sta)7 ’d not to inquire, but running direstly to her Chamber, made his Eyes his best Informers : He found her lying on a Couch in a most Charming Diffabillee, she had but newly come from Bathing, and her Hair unbraided, hung down upon her shoulders with a negligence more Beautiful than all the Aids of Art cou’d form in the most exabdecoriim of Dress,
^ t 7 ^
jiart of it fell upon her Neck and Breast, and with it’s Lovely Shadyness, being of a Delicate dark Brown, ret off to vast Advantage, the matchless whiteness of her skin : Her Gown and the rest of her Garments were white, and all ungirt, and loosely stowing, difcovestd a Thousand Beauties, which Modish Formalities conceal. A Book lay open by her on which she had reclin’d her Head, as if been tir’d with Reading, she blush’d at sight of the Count, and rose from / off the Couch with a Confusion winch gave new’ lustre to her Charms, but he not permitting her to stir from the place she was in, sat down by Her, and casting his Eyes on the Book which lay there, found it to be ovid.s epiftles, How Madam (cry’d he, not a little pleas’d with the Discovery) dare you, who the other day so warmly inveigh’d againshwritings of this Nature, trust your self with so Dangerous an Amusement?? happens it, that you are so suddenly coine over to our Party? Indeed my Lord answer d she, growing more dishrder’d) it was Chance rather than Choice, that Dirested this Book to my Hands, I am yet far from approving Subjests of this kind, and Believe I shall be ever so : Not that I can perceive any Danger in it, as to my self, the Retirement I have always liv’d in, and the little propensity I find to entertain a Thought of
F 2 that
4
  : Off
that uneasie Passion, has hitherto feciir’d me from any preposselsion, without which, Ovid s Art is Vain. Nay, Madam, reply’d the Count, now you Contradist your former Argument, which was, that these sort of Books were, as it were, pre para ives to Love, andby their softening Influence melted the Soul, and made it fit for Amorous Impressions, and sofar, you certainly were in the rig "it, for when once the fancy is fixed on a real Objest, there will be no need of Auxiliary i roes, the Dear Idea will spread it self thro’ every Faculty of the Soul, ' and in a Moment inform us better, than all the Writings of the most experienc’d Poets, cou’d do in an Age. Well, my Lord, (said she Endeavouring to Compose her fell) I am utterly unambitious of any Learning this way, and shall Endeavour to retain in Memory, more of the Misfortunes that attended the Passion of Sappho, than the Tender, tho’ never so Elegant Expressions it produc’d: And if all Readers of Romances took this Method, the Votaries of Cupid would be fewer, and the Dominion of Reason more extensive. You speak (answer’d d’elmont) asstho’ Loye and Reason were Iincompatible, there is no Rule (said she) my Lord without Exception, they are indeed shmetimes united, but how often they are at Variance where may we not find Proofs, hi llory, is full of them, and Daily Examples of the many hair brain’d Matches, and ships much less Excusable, sufficiently Evince how little Reashn has to do in the Affeirs of Love, I mean (continu’d she, with a very shrious Air) that shrt of Love, for there are two, which hurries People on to aji immediate Gratification of their
dclirc^j
\ 4 i •
i
 7
I
desires, tho’ never so prejudicial to themselves, or the Pershn they |)retend to Love, Pray Madam (said the Count a little netled at this Discourse) what Love is that which seems at least to Merit the Approbation of a Lady sh Extremely nice? It has many Branches (reply’d she) in the first Place that which we owe to Heaven, in the next to our King, our Country, Parents, Kindred, Friends, and Lastly, that which Fancy inclines, d Reason ides us to, in a Partner for Life, Biitdiefc every Circumstance must agree Parity of Age, of Quality, of Fortune, and of Humour, Consent of Friends, and Equal Astestion in each other, for if any one of thesh particulars fail, it renders all the rest of noestest.ah, ma dam(cry’dthecou N t not able to fuster her to proceed. What share of Pity then can you afford to a manwholoves were almost all theshcircumstances re wanting, and what advice wou’d you give a wretch so Cursed? I wou’d have him think, (said she more Gravely then before) ("How Madam, refum’d bethink aid you say? Alas 1 ’tis Thought that has undone him, that’s very possible (answer’d she) but yet stis want of thinking justly, for in a Lovers Mind Illusions shem Realities, and what at an other time wou’d be look’d on as Impolfible, appears easy then they indulge, and feed their newborn Folly with profpest of a Hope, tho’ ne’re so distant a one, and in the vain pursuit of it, sty consideration _ Despair Starts up in the midway, and bar s their promis’d view, whereas if they gave way to due Reffestiori, the Vanity of the Attempt wou’d preshntly be shown, and the same caush that bid ’em ceash to hope, wou’d bid ’em ceash to yrish: Ah Madam (Said he) how little do you
know
J
5 : Or
know of that Passion, and how easily cou’d I disprove you by the Example of my Friend; Despair and Love are of an equal Age in him, and from the first: Moment he beheld his Adorable Charmer, he has Languished without the least mixture of a flattering Hope. I Grant the Flames with which our Modern Gallants are ordinarily aniinated, cannot longfubfist withoutfewel, but where Love is kindled sh a Generous Heart by a just Admiration of the real Merits of the Objest belov’d, Reason goes Hand in Hand with it, and makes it lasting as oiir Life. In my Mind sanswer’d mellicra Coldly) an Esteem so Grounded may more properly be ascribed to Friendship, then be it so Madam, ('rejoyn’d the covnt Brisklyr) Friendship and Love, where either are sincere, vary but little in their meaning, there may indeed be some Distinstions in their Ceremonies, but their Essentials are still the same : And it the Gentleman I speak of were so happy as to hope his Friendship woiscl be acceptable, I dare promise that he never wou’d Complain his Love were not fb. You have a strange way (said she) to Confound idea’s, which in my Opinion are sh vastly different, that I shou’d make no Difficulty in granting my Friendlliip to as many of my Acquaintance, as had Merit to deserve it; but if I were to Love in that General Manner, ’twould be a Crime woush justly render me Contemptible to Mankind : Madam (replied the C o rm T) when I spoke of the (iongruity pf Love and Friendship, I did not mean' that sort, which to me, seems unworthy of the Name of either, but that Exalted one, which made Orejles andfilades, Tbefem and Ferhhous so Famous.
That,
0
 9
That, which has no Reserve, no separate Interest, or divided Thoughts, That which fills all,
-- -- gives all the Soul, and Esteems even Life a
Trifle, to prove fit self fincere what can Love
■ do more then yield everything to the objest belov’d? And Friendship must do so too, or is not Friendship! Therefore take heed fair Angel ^continu’d he taking her Hand, and kiifing it) how you Promise Freindship, where you ne’re shean to Love. And observing she was Silent, Your Hand, (said he) your Lip, your Neck, your
Breast, your All. -- -- All this whole Heaven of
Beauty must be no longer in your own Disposal- -- -- is the prize of Friendship! As much
confus’d as Melliora was, at these Words which gave her sufficient Reason to fear he wou’d now Declare himself more fully than she defir’d she had Spirit and Resolution enough to withdraw her Hand from his, and with a look, that spoke her meaning but too plainly for the repose of the enamour’d d’elmont : I shall take care my Lord (said she) how I Commence a Friendship whth any Person who shall make use of it to my Prejudice.
I
The Count was now sensible of his Error in going sofar, and fearing he had undone himself in her Esteem by his ralhproceeding, thought it was best at once to throw off a Disguise which in spite of his Endeavours wou’d fall off, of it’s Self, and by inaking a bold and free confeisioii of his real Sentiments, Oblige her to a Discovery
of hers. -- -- 1 do not doubt your Caution Ma
dem (answer’d he) in this point : Your Reserved Behaviour, even to me, Convinces me; but
too
[. ^ C
4  f; Off
i * ^
too fully, how little you are disposed to givej or receive any Proofs of Friendship : But perhaps (continu’d he with a deep sigh) my too' presuming Eyes have rendered - me a shfpe£ied Person, and while you find in me the Wretch I have Difcribst, you find nothing in me worthy of a happier Fortune., You are worthy of everything my Lord, (said melli6ra quite be lide her self at these Words) nor are you lest happy than you deserve Jo be; and 1 wou’d rather that these Eyes shou’d lose their sight than view you otherwise than now I see you, blessed in every Circumstance, the Darling of the World, the Idol of the (Court, and Favourite of Heaven! Oh stop 1 (cry’d d’elmont hastily Interrupting het) forbear to Curse mb farther, rather Command niy Death, than wish the Continuance of my present Miseries: Cruel Mell lost a, too well, Alas, yoii know what I have endur’d fmiii the first fatal Moment I beheld you, and only feign an Ignorance to Distrust me tnore : A Thousand times you have read my ri iing wishes, sparkling in my Eyes, and glowing bn my Cheeks, as often seen my Virtue struggling in filent Tremblings, and Life wasting Anguish to suppress desire. Nay, Madam (said he Catching fast hold of both herhands feeing her about to rifejby all my steeplefsnights; and restless Days by all my Countless Burning Agonies; by all the Torments of my gall’d, bleeding Heart, I swear, that you shall hear me: I have heard tod much fcry^d Mell iora not able to Contain het self) and tho’ I am unwilling to believe yoii have any farther aim in this Discourse than your Diversion, yet I must tell your Lordship that
there
i
',
 ^
thete are Themes more proper for it, than the Daughter of your Friend, who was entrusted to your Care with a far Disterent Opinion of your Behayroiir to her. ivhat have I done (refum'’d the almost Distrusted Count, falling at her jpeet, and grasping her knees) what have I done, inhumane Mell iora! To deserve this Rigour t my Honour has hitherto prevail above destre^ fierce, and raging as it is, nor h^d I any other hopes by making this Declaration thaii to meet that pity my Misfortunes Merit; and you can iiot without Ingratitude deny; Pity, even to Criminals is allow’d, and sure, Where, the offence i tinvoluntary, like mine, ’tis due: Tis impolfi ble to guess the Constist in Mell ior a’s Breast at this Instant, fne had heard a hiost Passionate ‘ Declaration of Love from a Married Man, and by Consequence, whatever his pretences were,; cou’d look on his Designs no otherwise thaii aim’d at the Destrustion of her Honour, and Was fir’d With a Virtuous Indignation. But then Ihe saw in this Married Man, the only Peidon in the World, who was capable of Inspiring her with a tender Thought, she saw him reduc’d to the last Extremity uf Despair for her sake : She heard his sighs, she felt his Tremblings as he held her, and cou’d not refrain fliedding slime Tears, both for him, and for herself, who indeed shffer’d little less, •, the Count was not sh happy as to be Witness of this Testimony of her Compassion: He had reclin’d his Head on herlap, possibly to hide those that forced their way thro’his Eyes, at the same time - and Alow is a’s Voice whicih they heard below, giving them both an Alarm • they had no further opportunity for Speech, and the Count was but just
G gone
i
r.
y
'j
4a
gone out of the Room, and Melliora laid on the Couch in the same Careless Posture which he had found her in; when Alovysa enter’d the Chamber, and after having a little pleasantly reproach’d her for being so lazy as not to Accompany her in the Walk She had been take ing, ask’d her if She had not seen the Count who file had been told was come home: Poor Melliora had much ado to Conceal the Disorder She was in at this Question, but Recovering her self as well as she c'ou’d, answer’d in the
N _
Affirmative •, but that he had not stay’d there longer than to inquire wshere ffie was gone, and that ffie knew not but he might be gone in search of her : This was enough to make Alovysa take her leave. Impatient for the sight of her Dear Lord, a happiness She had not enjty'd since Morning, but ffie was disappointed of her Hope. The Count as la e as it was in the E ’ veniifg, went into his chaise, which had not been setup, since he came from the Bdrtn d’es pern ay’s, and drove thither again with all tk speed he cou’d.
The Baron was Extremely fiirpriz’d at his sudden return, and with so much Confusion and Melancholy in his Countenance. But much more so, when he had given him an Account of what had pass’d between Him and Melliora, and coil’d not forbear rallyinghim cxceliively on the occasion. "What said he, a Man of Wit, and Pleafiire like Count D'elmont, a Man who knows the Sex so well, cou’d he let slip So Favourable an opportunity with the finest Woman in the World; one for whose Enjoyment he
wou’d
i
\
 3
♦
wou’d Die, — cou’d a frown, cr a little angry Coinefs (which ten to one was but affectecl) have Power to freeze such fierce desires. The Count was not at present in a Humour to relish this Merriment, he was too seriously in Love to bear that anything relating to it fhou’d be turn’d into Ridicule, and was far from repenting he had done no more, since what he had done, had occalion’d her difpleasijre: But she Baron, who had designs in his Head, which he knew cou’d not by any means be brought to Succeed, but by keeping the count’s Pallion warm, made use of all the Artifice he was Master of, to Embolden this Respective Lover, to the Gratification of his Wishes: And growing more grave than he had been. My Lord, said he, you do not only Injure the Dignity of our Sex in General, but your own Merits in Particular, and perhaps even melliora’s secret Inclinations, by this unavailing distant Carriage, and Causeless despair- -- -
you not confessed that has she look’d on you with atenderness, like that of Love, that she has Blushed at our Sight, and trembled at yoiirtouch?
...What wou’d you tnore that She shou’d do,
or what indeed can she do more, in Modesty, to prove her Heart is yours? A little Re Solution on your fide wou’d make her all yours — Women are Taught by custom to deny what most they Covet, and to seem angry when they are best pleas’d; believe me, d’elmont that the most rigid Virtue of ’em all, never yet hated a Man for those faults which Love occasions. All this answer’d thecou n t is what I readily a gree to, — But O her fatlier’s Memory! My Obligations to him! Her Youth and Innocence are Daggers
G 2 to
%
I
  Off
to my cool reflections- -- -- -- -- -- it not he
pity espern4y (continitd he with a deep ligh) even if ssie ihou’d consent, to ruin so much sweetness?? Baron cou’d not forbear Laughing at thefewords, and the Count who had started these Objestions, only with the hope of having them, remov’d, easily fuster’d himself to be persuaded to follow his Inclinations i and it was
7j ^
shon Concluded betwixt them, that on the first opportunity, Melliora shou’d fall a Sacrifice to Love.
b : ' \ * : • .i
The Count came not home until the next Morning, and brought the Baron with him, for they were now become inseparable Friends: At his return he found Alovysa in a very ill humour for his being abroad all hjight? and in spite of the Relolutioir she had made of showing a perfect Resignation to her Husbands will, cou’d not forbear giving him slime hints, how unkindly shetyokit, which he but little Regarded, all his Thoughts were now bent on the gaining Mell IORA. But that Lady alarm’d at his Late Behaviour, and with Reason doubting her own Bower of Resenting it as’she pught, or indeed resisting any future attempts he might mahe, feigifdsthe necelstty of performing some private Rules of Devotion eiijoyn’d her as a Penance, and kept her Chamber that she inight not See Him. ^ "
The Disquietudes of d’elmont for being
forc’d to live; but for three or four days without the happiness of beholding her, convinc’d
him how impostible it was for iiim to overcome
■ " ‘ ' Ins
id
f
4
I
X
«
 5
his Passion, tho’ he should never fb vigorousty Endeavour it, and that whatever Method he shou’d make use of to satisfy it, might be excus’d
by the necessity
%
is it that a Lover cannot Accomplish when Resolution is on his fide? d’elmont after having form’d a Thousand fruitless Inventions, at last pitch’d on one, which promis’d him, an Alfiirance of Success : In M e L L i o R a’s Chamber there was a little Door that open’d to a pair of Back Stairs, for the Convenience of the Servants coming to clean the Room, and at the Bottom of that Difcent, a Gate into the Garden.
The Count fet his Wits to Work to get the Keys of those two Doors, that of the Garden stood always in it, nor cou’d he keep it, without it’s being mist at Night, when they shou’d come to fasten the Gate, therefore, he carefully took thelmpreffion in Wax, and had one made exactly like it: The other he cou’d by no means Compass without making some Excuse to go to ^
mellicra’s Chamber, and she had defir’d that none might visit her: But he overcome this Bar to his Design at Last; there was a Cabinet in it, where he told Alovysa he had put slime Papers of great Concern which now he wanted to look over, and defir’d she won’d make an a pology for his coming in, to fetch them. Mell i ora imagin’d this was only a Pretence to see her, but his Wife being with him, and he saying nothing to her, or taking any farther notice, than what Common Civility requir’d, was not much troubled at it. While Alovysa was paying a Compliment, to the recluse, he was dextrous 1

trous enough to slip the Key out of the Door, unperceiv a by either of them.
i
As fbon as he had got the Passport to his Expected Joys in his Postelhon, he order’d a Couple of Saddle Horses to be made ready, and only attended by one Servant, rid out, as if to take the Air; but when they were got about two or three Miles from his Houle, Commanded him to return, and j tell his lad)r, that he shou’d lye that Night at ithe Baron d’esper nay’s, the fellow obey’d, and Clapping Spurs to his Horse, was immediately lost in a Cloud of Dust.
V
'ci.. '
*
d’elmont had sent this Mefiage to prevent any of the Family sitting up expecting him, and instead of going to the Baron's, turn’d short, and went to Angerville, where meeting with some Gentlemen of his Acquaintance, he pafs’d the Hours ’till between twelve and one, as pleasantly as his Impatience to be with Melliora, wou’d give him leave. He had not mudi above a Furlong to ride, and his desires made him not spare his Horse, which he tj^ ed by the
; Bridle, hot, and foaming, as he was, to a huge
Oak which grew pretty near his Garden, it was Incompaffed only with a Hedge, and that so low, that he got over it without any Difficulty: He look’d carefully about him, and found ■no telltale lights in any of the Rooms, and Concluding all was as bush’d as he cou’d wish, open ed the first Door, but the Increasing Transports ©fhis Soil], as he came upstairs, lobe so neat the end of all his Wishes, are more easily Imagined
C
 7
gi lied than Express:, but as violent as they were, they presently receiv’d a vast: Addition, when he came into the Happy Chamber, and by a moss: Delightful Gloom a Friend to Lovers -, for it was neither Dark nor Light, he beheld the Lovely Melliora in her Bed, and sass asseep, her Head was reclin’d on one of her Arms; a Pillow foster and whiter far than that it lean’d on, the other was stretch’d out, and with it’s ex tention had thrust down the Bed clothes sh far, that all the Beauties of her Neck and Breast appear’d to view. He took an inexpressible Pleasure, in gazing on her as ssie lay, and in this filent Contemplation of her Thousand Charms, his mind was Agitated with various Emotions, and the refistiefs posture he beheld her in, rouz’d all that was Honourable in him, he thought it pity even to wake her, but more to wrong shch Innocence, and he was shmetimes Prompted to return and leave her as he found her.
But whatever Dominion, Honour, and "Virtue may have over our waking Thoughts, ’tis certain that they fly from the clos’d Eyes, our Passions then exert their forceful Power, and that which is most Predominant in the Soul, Agitates the fancy, and brings even Things Impolfible to pafs : Desire, with watchful Diligence repell’d, returns with greater violence in unguarded steep, and overthrows the vain Efforts of Day. Melliora in spite of her self, was often happy in Idea, and possessed a Blessing, which shame and Guilt, deter’d her from in reality. Imagination at this i; ime was Astive, and brought the Charming Count much nearer than indeed
he
I
• ♦
ij.  r .* Off
he was, and he, stooping to the Bed, and gefitly laying his Face close to hers, (Possibly Designing no more than to steal a Kifs from her,
iinperceiv’d) that Astion, Concurring at that Instant, with her Dream, made her throw her Arm Cstill Slumbering) about his Neck, and in a Soft and Languishing Voice, Cry out, 0! d’elmont Cease, cease to Charm, to such a
height -- -- Life cannot bear these Raptures
i— — then again. Embracing him yet defer,
-- -- O! too, too Lovely Cou NT -- -- -- Extatick
Ruiner!
r
Where was now the Reshlution he was forming some Moments before? If he had now left her, some might have applauded an Honour sh uncommon but more wou’d have condemn’d his Stupidity, for i believe there are very few Men, how Stoical shever they pretend to be, that in such a Tempting Circumstance wou’d not have lost all Thoughts, but thosh, which the present opportunity inliiir’d, That he did, is most certain, for he tore open his Wastcoat, and joyn’d his panting Breast to her’s, with such a Tumultuous Eagerness!! her with shch a Rapidity of Transported hope crown’d Passion, as immediately wak^d her from an imaginary Felicity, to the Approaches of a Solid one. Vffiere have I been? (said she, just
opening her Eyes) where am I > -- -- (And then
coming more perfestly toher shlssheavenl Whafs
this? -- -- I am d’elmont (cry’d the Ore
V joy’d Count) the happy d’elmont! melliora’s thecharming melliora’s d’elmgnt! Oh, all ye Saints, (refum’d the shrpriz’d, Trembling
\
The Fatal Enqnity,
ibiing, fair) ye Miniistring Angels! wsbfe Bu | to gtiard the Innocent! Protect, and Shield my Virtiie I O! fajh how caiiie you here my Lord? Loye, laid he, Love that does all, that Wshnder 'working Power has sent me here, to Charm thee, sweet Relisteir, into ihelding,
O! Hold, (cry’d ihe, finding he; ivas proceed ing to Liberties, which her Modesty cou’d not allow of) forbear, I do Conjure you, even by that Love you plead, before my Honour, tls resign my Life! Therefore, unless you wisli to see me t)ead, a Vistira to yotir Cruel, fatal Paffbn, 1 beg you to desist, apd leave jne :
•; — I cannot — - Must not (answer’d he, growiitg still more Bold) wstat, when I have f hee thus I Thus naked in rhjr Arms, Trembling, Defenceless, Yeilding; Panting withequalvhsh.es, thy Love Confessed, and every Thought, Desire! What cou’dst thou think if I shost’d leave thee f How justly wou’dst thou fcorii my easy Tameness; my Duiness, im worthy Of the Name of
Lover, or even of Man! -- -- - — Come, come no
shore Relustance (continu’d he, gathering Rifieg from her soft Snowy Breast at everyvshrd) Lamp not the fires thost hast tais’d with feemingcoiness! i know thou art mine I All mines And thusi -- Yet think (said she interfiipting him, and Struggling in his Arms) think what ’tis that you wou’d do, hbr for a Moshents Joy, hazard your Peace for Ever. By Heaven, cry’d he : I will this Night be Master of my" Wishes, no matter what tomorrow may bring forth : Astbon as he had spoke these Words, he put it otit of her Power either to deny, or to Reproach him, by stopping her Mouth with Kistes, and was just on the point of
H making
*
\
p
%
5  L Off
making good what he had vow’d, when a loud knocking at the Chamber Door, put a stop tc his Beginning Exstacy, and chang’d the sweet Confusion, Mi ll iora had been in, to all the Horrors of a shame and guilt Distracted Apprehension: : made no Doubt but that it was Alovysa, and that they were betray’d, t’.e ccun t’s greatest concern for was Mell iora, and the knocking still continuing and growing louder, all he cou’d do in this Exigence, was to make his Estape, the way he came, there was no tiiiie for taking leave, and he cou’d only fa, perceiving she was ready to saint wdth her fears. Be s Comforted, my Angel, and resolute in your Denials,
to, whatever Questions the Natural Info icnce of a Jealous Wife, may provoke mine to ask}mu; and we shall meet again (if d’elmont survives thisdifappointment withoutdanger osso quick, so Cursed a Separation. Melliora was in too much Distradfion to make any Answer to what he said, and he had left the Room Some 'Moments before she coil’d get Spirit enough to, ' ask w 'o was at the Door but when she did, was as much furpriz’d to find it was Melantha, wi10 defir’d to be let in, as before she was frigbtd at the belief it was Alovy s A, however, she immediately stipt on her Nightgown, and Slippers, and open’d the Door.
You are a sound Sleeper indeed(cry’dme l a N T H A laughing j that all the Noise I have made cou’cl not wake you. I have not been all this time asteep (answer’d Melliora) but not knowing you Were in the House, cou’d not imagine who it was that gave me this Disturbance.
I heartily ask your Pardon (said Melantha]
'• aid
I
I ' •
I
L ^
and I know, my Dear, you are too good natur’d. to refuse it me, especially when you know the Occasson, which is so very Whimsscal, that, as Grave as you are, you cannot help being diverted with it -- But coine fcontinu’d she) get on
your Clothes, for you must go along with me.
Where? said Mell ior a, isjajr, nay, ask no Ojicstions (refum’d Melantha) but make hast, every Minute that we Idle away here, loses us the Diversion of an Age. As She spoke these "Words, file fell into such an exceshve Laughter, that Mell icr a thought her Mad, but being far from Sympathising in her gayet)r it has always, said she) been hitherto my Custom to have slime Reashn for what I do, tho’ in never so trifling an Affair, and you must excush me, if I do not break it now. Pish fery’d Melantha) you
are of the oddest Temper, -- -- but I will give
you your Way for once, — — provided you’ll get your self ready in the mean time. I shall certainly put on my Clothes (Said Melliora) lest I Should take cold, for I expect youll not permit me to steep any more this Night. You may be sure of it (rejoyifd Melantha.) But to the
Purpose- -- -- must know, having an Hour or
two on my Hands, I came this Evening to visst Alovysa, and found her in the strangest Humour! -- -- Good God! What unaccountable Crea*
times thesh married Women are? — Her Husband it seems had sent her Word that he wou’d lye at my Brothers, and the poor loving Soul cou’d not bear to live a Night without him. I stay’d to condole with her, (tho’ on my Life, I cou’d Scarce forbear Laughing in her Face) ’till it was too
late logo Home, ' -- - About twelve a Clock she
H 2 yawn’d,
»
/
I
^ : Off
\
yawp’d, stretch’d, and grew most horridly out of Temper; raitd at Mankind prodigiously, and curs’d Matrimony as heartily a one of Fpnrfcore cou’d do, that had been twke a "W idow, and wa left a Maid i — - With much ado, I made her Women thrust her into Bed, and retired to ^ Chamber wssish they fhow’d nie, but I had no Inclination to steep, I remember’d my self of five
or six billet. i)oi^x Ishad tp answer- -- Lover,
|: hat growing fpolishly troublesome, I have Some
thoughts of discharging tomorrow -- -- -- - Another
that I design to Countenance, to pique a third - — — A new Suit of Clothes, and Trimmings for
the next Ball -- -- Half a hundred New Song?
— — and — a thousand other Affair of the utmoll: ponfequence to a young Lady, cam into my Head in a Moment; and the Night being extremely pleasant, I fet the Candle in the Chimney, open’d the Window, aud fell tp constdering
-- -- But I had not been able to come to a Con
cluston what I stiould do in any one thing I was thinking of, before I was interrupted in my
Cogitations with a Noise of something rushing hastily thro’ the Mirtles under my Window, and presently after, Saw it was a Man going hastily along toward thegreaf Alley of the Garden— — first I was going to cry out and alarm the fa inily, taking it for a Thief; But, Dear Melt
IORA, how glad am I that I did not fi -- For
who do you think, when I look’d more heedsul }y, I perceiv’d it was > Nay, how should I know?, (cry’d Mell iora peevishly, fearing the count’s iiiadyertency had expos’d himself and hef to this foolish woman’s Curiosity) It was
Count d’elmokt (refum’d Melantha) HI
V
  ^5
lay my Life, that he has been on some Intreague tonight: And met with a Dishppbintment in
it, by his quick Return. but prithee make
hast, for I long to rally him about it. What wou’d you do Madam? (said Melliora) you wou’d not sure go to him? Yes, fanswer’d Melantha : I will go down into the Garden, and
so shall you.^ 1 know you have a Bark way
from your Chamber -- Therefore lay aside this
unbecoming Demurenefs, and let us go, and talk him to Death. You may do as you please, (said Melliora) but for my part, I am for no such Frolicks. Was there ever anything fb Young, fb Formal as you are! (Rejoyn d Melantha) but I am refolv’d to Tease you out of a Humour so directly opposite to the Beau monde, and, if you will not Consent to go down with me : I will fetch him up to your Chamber — Hold I Hold, (cry’d Melliora Perceiving she was going) what do you mean, for Heavens sake stay, what will Alovysa think? - — I care not (reply’d the other) I have fet my Heart on an hours Diversion with him, and will not be baulk’d, if the repose of the World, much less, that of a Jealpus, silly Wise, Depended on it.
lit
Mellipr.^ Saw into the Temper of this Capricious Young Lady too well not to believe she wou’d do, as she had said, and perhaps, was not over wfiling to venture her with the Cqtjnt alone, at that time of Night, and in the hii jtiour she knew he was, therefore putting on an Air more Cheerful than that she was accustom’d te wear, wcfl (Said she) I yfill Accompany you
into
5 : Or
into the Garden, since it willfo much oblige you, but if the Count be wise, he will, by quitting the Place, as soon as he fee’s us, disappoint you worse than I shou’d have done, If I had kept you here. With these Words she took her by the Hand, and they went down the Stairs, where the Count was but just past before them. ^.
I.
>
t
w
1 /,
He had not Power to go away, without knowing who it was, that had given him that Interruption, and had stood all this Time, on the upper step behind the Inner Door. His Vexation, and Disdain when he heard it was Melantha gave him as much Pain, as his Concern while he believ’d it Alovysa, and he cou’d not forbear muttering a Thousand (iurfes on her Impertinence. He always difpis’d, but now'ab
horr’d her : She had behav’d her self to him in
#
a Fashion, as made him sufficiently Sensible she was desirous of engaging him, and he refolv’d to Mortify by the bitterest Slights, both her Pride, and Love, if ’tis proper, to call that shrt of liking which Agitates the Soul of,. Coquet, by that Name.
The Ladies walk’d in the Garden for slime time, and Melantha search’d every Bush, before she found the Count who stood conceal’d in the Porch, which being cover’d with Jeffdmin, and Fillaree, was Dark enough to hide him from their view, though' they had pafs’d close to him as they came out. He had certainly remain’d there still Morning, and Disappointed Mel AN: thast search in part of the Revenge he ow’d her,
11
\
4
/
<
  -55
/
', \ if his Dessres to he with Melliora, on any Terms, had not prevail’d, even above his Anger to the other. But he cou’d not see that Charmer of his Soul, and imagine there might be yet an opportunity that Night of Stealing a Kiss from her (now he believed resistlefs Lips) of Touching her Hand! Her Breast! And repeating feme farther Freedoms which his late Advantage over her had given him, without being fill’d with Wishes too Fiery and too Impatient to be restrained. He watch’d their Turning, and when be saw that they were near an Alley which had another that led to it, he went round and met them.
Melantha was overjoy’d at sight of him, and Melliora though' equally pleas’d, was cover’d with such a Confusion, at the Remembrance of what had passed, that it was happy for her that her' Companions Volubility gave her no Room for Speech. There is nothing more certain than that Love, tho’ it fills the mind with a Thousand Charming Ideas, which those untouch’d by that Passion, are not Capable of conceiving, yet it entirely takes away the Power of Utterance, and the deeper Impression it had made on the Soul, the less we are able to express it, when willing to indulge and give a loose to Thought; what Language can furnish us with Words sufficient, all are too poor, all wanting both in Sublimity, and Softness, and only Fancy! a Lovers Fancy 1 Can reach the Exalted sharing of a Lovers meaning! But, if so impossible to be defcrib’d, if of so Vast, so Wondertul a Nature as nothing but it’s self can Comprehend,
how
>
s
5 6 Lotte in Excess r .* Of
\

how much more Impostible mult it be entirely to Conceal it! What Strength of Boasted rea ibn? What Force of Resolution?? modest
'I
Fears, or (Slunning Artifice can Correst the fierceness of it’s Fiery Flashes in the Eyes, keep down the Struggling sighs. Command the pulse, and bid the Trembling, Cease?? and Virtue may distance Bodies, but there is no Power in either of those Names, to stop the Spring that with a rapid whirl Transports us from our selves, and darts our Souls into the Bosom of the Darling Object : This may stem Strange to many, even of those who call, and perhaps believe that they are Lovers, bstt the few who have Delicacy enough to feel what I but impertedlly attempt to speak, will Acknowledge it for Truth, and Pity the Distress of Melliora.
A s they Were pasting through' a walk with Trees on each fide, whose Intermingling Boughs made a Friendly Darkness, and everything undistin guishable, the Amorous dshlmdnt throwing his eager Arms round thewastofhis (no less tran fported)3;, Melliora, and Printing Burning Kisses Oil her Neck, reap’d painful pleasure, and Created III her, a Racking kind of Ecstasy * might perhaps, had they been now alone, prov’d her desires were little different from his.
k
J ^,
After Melantha had vented part of the jstaillery, she was so big with, on the Count, which he bstt little regarded, being wholly taken
up with other Thouhgts, she propos’d, going into
r
1
* At ^ ^
The Fatdl Inquiry,
f
to the "Wilderness, which was at ^ the farther end of the Garden, and they readily agreeing to it. Come my Lord (said shej to the Count you are Melancholy, I have Thought of a way which will either Indulge the Humour you are in, or Divert it, as you Shall choose;; are several little paths in this Wilderness, let us take each a separate one, and when we Jiieet, which shall he here, where we part; agree to tell an entertaining Story, w deli whoever faiss in, shall be doom’d to the Punishment of being left here all Night : The Count at these Words, forgot all his Animosity, and was ready to hug her for this proposal. Melliora did a little oppose it; but the others were too Powerful, and she was forc’d to submit: Thou art the Dullest Creature, I lay my Life my L rd (cry’dmelantha, taking hold of theccunt in a gay manner) that it falls to her Lot to stay in the Wilderness;; Madam, (reply’d the Count) you are too stvere, we ought always to suspend our Judgement still after the Trial, which I confess my self so pleas’d with, that I am Impatient for it’s Coming on : Well then (said she Laughing) farewell for half am hour. Agreed ('cry’d the Count) and walked away s Melantha saw which way he went, and took another Path, leaving Melliora to go forward in that, in which .they were, hut I believe the Reader will easily imagine that she was not long to Enjoy the Privilege of heu Meditations
r
/
\ •
♦ •
J Aftee
r
« • 9
(js >
After the Count had gone slime few Paces, ' he planted himself behind a Thicket, which while it hid him, gave him the opportunity of observing them, and when he found the Coast ' Clear, rush’d out, and with unhurting Gripe, feiz’d once more on the Unguarded Prey. Blessed Turn of Fortune (said he in a Rapture), Happ}?",
happy Moment! -- -- -- -- Lost, lost Melliora,
(said she) most unhappy Maid! - — Oh why,
'why my Lord, this Quick Return? This is lio place to answer thee (refum’d he taking her in his Arms, and Bearing her behind that Thickest where himself had stood) stwas in vain for her to resist, if she had, had the Power over her Inclinations, still he setting her shfrly down, and beginning to Caress her, in the manner he had done, when she was in Bed, she affstmst Strength enough to raish her self a little, and Catching hold of his Tranfgrdfing Hands, laid her Face on ’em, and bath’d ’em in a Shower of .Dears: O! d’elmont (said she) Cruel d’elmont! Will you then take Advantage of my Weakness? I Confess I feel for you, a Passion far beyond all, that yet, ever bore the Name of Love, ' that I no longer can withstand the too Powerful Magic of your Eyes, nor deny anything that Charming Tongue can ask, but n’ow’s the Time to prove your shlf the Hero, subdue yonr felsh as you have conqner’d me, be satisfied with Vanquishing my Soul, fix there your Throne, but leave my Honour free! Life of my Life (cry’d he) wound me no more by shidi untimely Sorrows : I Cannot bear thy Tear hj Heaven thejr fink in to my Soul, and cjuiie
uinnaii,
/ <-
- ^ I ' '
i
^ (
*■
? - ’ t
  <9
tinman me, but tell me (continu’d he Tenderly Kishng her) cou’dst thou, with all this Love, this Charming -- Something more then shft
nefs — cou’dft thou I say, Consent to she me Pale and Dead, Stretched at thy Feet, con fum’d with inward Burnings, rather than blessed, than raised by Love, and Thee, to all a Deity in thy Embraces : For O! Believe me when I swear, that stis imposhble to Live without thee.
No more, no more (said she letting her Head fall gently on his Breast) too easily I guess thy fiif fcrings by my own. But yet, dshlmont stis better to Die in Innocence, than to Live in Guilt. O! why (refum’d he, sighing as if his Heart wou’d burst:) shou’d what we canst avoid, be call’d a Crime? Be Witness for me Heaven I How much I have Strugfd with this rising Pash
fion, even to Madness struggl’d !Butin
Vain, the Mounting Flame Blazes the more, the more I wou’d fiipprefs it ■ — — My very Soul's
on Fire -- 1 cannot bear it — ohmellicra!
Didsh thou but know the Thousandth part, of what this Moment I endure, the strong convulsions of my Warring Thoughts, thyr Heart ssteefd as it is, and frost’d round with Virtue, wou’d burst it’s Icy shield and ihelt in Tears of Blood ' to pity me. Unkind and Cruel! Sanswer d she) do
1 not pertake them then? -- Do I not bear,
at least, an equal share in all your Agonies?
-- Hast thou no Charms -- Or have not I a
Heart? — ■ — A most Sufceptible, and Tender
Heart? -- Yes, you may feel it Throb, it beats
against my Breast, like an imprishn’d Bird, and Sain wou’d burst it’s Cage! to fly to you, the. aim of all it’s Wishes! — ohd’elmost!
1-2, ' — With
/
"$
(§ : Or,
-- -- -- With these "Words she sunk wholly intc
s fc <1 ' t ■ %/
his Arms unable to speak more : Nor was he less difolv’d in Rapture, both their Souls feem’d to take Wing together, and left their Bodies Motionless, as unworthy to bear a part in their more elevated Bliss.
But d’elmont at his returning Sense, repent, ing the Effests of the violent Transport, he had been in, now was preparing to take fromtherelift icssmell IOR A, the last, and only remaining proof that she vas all his own, when Melantha (who had contriv’d this Separation only with a Design to be alone with the Count, and had carefully obferv’d which way he took) was coining towards them. The rustling of her Clothes a inostgthe Bushes, gave the Disappointed Couple leave to rise from the Posture they were in, and Melliora to abscond behind a Tree, before ' she cou’d come near enough to discern who was
there.
4 %
Melantha, as soon as she saw the Count, put on an Air of Surprise, as if it were but by Chance, that she was come into his walk, and Laughing with a visible Affestion, bless me! You here, iny Lord! (said she) I vow this has the look of Aifignation, but I hope you will not be so vain as to believe I came on purpose to seek you. No Madam (aniiver’d he coldly) I have not the least Thought of being so happy Lord! You are strangely grave (rejoyn’d llie) but suppose I really had come with a Design to nieet you, what kind of a Reception might J' have expested? I know no Reason Madam
^ <1
I
 t
(said he) that can oblige me to Entertaili i sup polition so unlikely. Well then (refum’d she) i’ll put it past: a Siippofition, and tell you plainly, that I did walk this way on purpose to Divert your Spleen. I am sorry ('reply d he, tir’d to Death with her Impertinence) that you are Disappointed;; I am not in a Hnmour at present, of receiving any Diversion. Fie (said she) is this an answer for the Gay, Gallant, Engaging Count Dtlmont, to give a Lady who
makes a Declaration of Admiring him -- -- -- Who
thinks it not too much to make the first: Advances, and who would believe her self fully re compenc’d for breaking thro’ the nice Decorums of her Sex, if he receiv’d it kindly -- -- -- Madam
(said he, not a little amaz’d at her Imprudence) I know of no such Person, or if I did, I must: confess, shou’d be very much puzled how to behave in an Adventure so uncommon : Fish (answer’d she, growing vexed at his Coldness) 1 know that shch Adventures are not uncommon with you: i’m not to Learn the Story of Alovysa, and if you had not been first: address’d, perhaps might have been’till now unmarried. Well Madam (said he, more out of Humour) put the Cafe that what you say were true, I am Married, and therefore, (Interrupted she you ought to be better acquainted with the Temper of our Sex, and know that a Woman, where she Says she Loves, Experts a Thousand fine Things in Return. But there is more than a possibility {answer’d he) of her being Disappointed, and methinks Madam, a Lady of your Gaity shou’d be conversant enough with Poetry,
'to Remeinber these too Lines of a famous English Poest ‘ Ali
/ /
f
il  y
■ V
All Naturally fly, what does Vurftie >
’tis ft Men fiopd be Coy, when Women Woe,
I _
Melantha was fretted to the Heart to find him so insensible, but not being one of thole who are apt to repent anything they have done, she only pretended to fall into a violent fit of I Laughed er, and when she came out of ist I Confess (said she) that I have lost: my Aim, which. was, to make you believe I was Dying for Love of you, raise you to the highest degree of Expectation, and then have the Pleasure of Baulking you at once, by letting you know the jest,
-- -- But your Lordship is too hard for me, even
at my own Weapon, Ridicule! lam mightily obliged to you Madam (answer’d he, more briskly than before) for your Intention -, however,
but stis probable, if I cou’d have been drawn into a belief that yon were in Earnest, I might, at such a Time, and such a Place as this, have taken some Meashres which wou’d have shfficient
ly reveng’d me on you -- -- -- -- But come Madam,
(continu’d he) the Morning begins to break, if you pleash we will find out Melliora, and go into the House: : he spoke these Words, they perceiv’d her coming towards them, who had only taken a little round to meet ’em, and they all three made what hast they cou’d in, Count d’elmont asked a forn.al leave ef Melliora to go thro’ her Chamber, none of the Servants being yet stirring, to let him into the house any other way, which being granted, he cou’d not help sighing as he passed by the Bed;, where he had been lately so Cruelly Disappointed,
 ^
iappointed, but had no opportunity to speak his Thoughts at that time to melliura.
The Count rung for his Gentleman to rise to undress him, and order’d him to send somebody to take care of his Horse, and went to '
Bed, Alovysa was v’ery much furpriz’d at his return from the baron’s at fb unfeafbnable an hour, but much more so, when in the Morn hng, aielantha came Laughing into the Chamber, and told her, all that Ihe knew of the Adventure of the Night before •, her old fit of Jealousy new refum’d it’s Dominion in her Soul, she cou’d not forbear thinking, that there was something more in ist than Melantha had difcoi’er’d : And presently imagin’d that her Husband stay’d not at the Baron's, because she was abroad, but she was more confirm’d in this Opinion, when Melantha calling for her Coach to go home; the Count told her that he wou’d Accompaiu^ her thither, having urgent business with her Brother. ’tis almost impolfible to guess the rage Alovysa was in, but she Dissembled it still they were gone, then going to Mell iorast Chamber, she vented part of it there, and began to question her about their Behaviour in the Wilderness. Tho’
t
Melliora was glad to find, since she was Jealous, that she was Jealous of anybody rather than her self, yet she said all that she cou’d, to persuade her, that she had no Reason to be uneasy.
. '
But Alovysa was always of too fiery a Nature to listen patiently to anything cou’cl
be
  : Oty
i
be offer’d, to alter the Opinion fly had takeii lip, tho’ it were with never sh little an Appearance of Reashn, hut much more, now, when she thought her self, in a manner gbnfirm’d : Forbear (said she) Dear Melliora to take the ]part of perfidy : I know he hates me, I read it in his Eyes, and feel it on his Lips, all day he shuns my Converse, and at night. Colder than Ice receives injr warm Embraces, and when, (oh that I cou’d tear the tender folly from ray Heart) with "Words as soft as Love can Form, I urge him to disclose the Cause of his Difejuiet, he answers but in sighs, and turns away; Perhaps (reply’d Melljora) his Temper Naturally is Gloomjr, and Love it shlf, has scarce the Power to alter Nature. Oh no, (Interrupted Alovysa) far from it : Had I ne’er known him other wish, I cou’d forgive what now I know, but he was once as kind as tender Mothers to their newborn Babes, and fond as the first Wishes of Deiiring Youth: Oh 1 With what eagerness has he approach’d me, when absent but an hour!
■ -- Hadst thou e’re seen him in those Days
of Joy, even thou, Cold, cloyster’d Maid, mull: have ador’d him! What Majesty, then sat upon his Brow? ^ — What Matchless Glories shone
around him! -- -- -- Miriads of Cupids, shot resist
less Datts in every Glance, -- -- -- His Voice,
when shftned in Amorous Accents, boasted more Music than the Poets Orpheus! When e’re he spoke, methought the Air feem’d Charmed, the Winds forgot to blow, all Nature listn’d, and
like Al ovysa melted into Transport- -- -- --
he is chang’d in all — — The Hero, and the Lover are Extinst, and all that’s left, of the
once
ft
/
s
The Fatdl Enquirfi, 6^
bnce Gay dshlmont, is a difil Sencelefs Picture : Melliora was too Senflbly toiich’d with this discourse,, be able presently to make any answer to it, and she cou’d not forbear Accompanying her in Tears, while alovy sa renew’d her Complaints in this manner, his Heart (said she) his Heart is lost, for ever ravish’d from me, that bosom, where I had trea fur’d all my Joys, my Hopes, my Wishes, now Burns and Pants, with Longings for a Rival,, Cursed, Cursed Melantha, by Heaven they are even Impudent in Guilt, they Toy, they Kifs, and make Assignations before my Face, and this Tyrant Husband Braves me with his falfe shood, and thinks to Awe me into calmnessi
But, if I endure it -- -- -- -- No ('continu’d she
stamping, and walking about the Room in a difibrder’d Motion) i’ll be no longer the Tame easy wretch I have been -- -- All France shall
k _
Echo with my Wrongs -- -- -- -^ — The Ungrateful
Monster! - — Villain, whose well nigh wasted Stream of Wealth had dry’d, but for my kind of Supply, shall he Enslave me -- -- -- - Oh Mel hora
shun the Marriage Bed, as thou wou’dst a serpent’s Den, more Ruinous, more Poyfonous far, is Man.
’twas in vain that Melliora endeavour’d to pacific her, she continu’d in this Humour all iday, and in the Evening receiv’d a considerable Addition to her former Disquiet: The Count sent a Servant of the baro7u (having not taken any of his own with him) to acquaint her, that he shou’d not be at home that Night. ’tis well (said she ready to burst with Rage) let the Count
K know'
f
V
6 : Off
I
know that I can change as well as he, and shall excuse his absence tho’it lasts to all Eternity, (go continu’d She, feeing him shrpriz’d) deliver this Message, and withal, assure him, that what I say, I mean. She had scarce made an end of thefewords, when She flung out of the Room, unable to utter more, and lock’d her self into her Chamber, leaving Melliora no less di straded, tho’ for Different Reasons, to retire to her’s.
She had not ’till now, had a Moments time for Reflection ssnce her Adventure in the Wib dernels, and the Remembrance of it, joyn’d with the Despair, and Grief of Alovysa, which she kiiev/ her self the Sole occasson of, threw her into most Terrible Agonies. She was ready to Die with shame, when fly conssder’d how much the secret of her Soul was laid open to him, who of all the World she ought most to have.
, conceal’d it from, and with remorse, for the Miseries her fatal Beauty was like to bring on a Family for whom she had the greatest Friendship.
__ /
But these Thoughts fbon gave way to another, equally as shocking, fly was present when the seri^ant brought word the Count woust lie abroad, and had all the Reason imaginable to believe that Message was only a feint, that he might have an opportunity to come unob ferv’d to her Chamber, as he had done the Kight before. She cou’d not presently guess by what means he had got in, and therefore was at a loss how to prevent him, still Recol
lesting
/
I
i
 j
lesting all the Circumstances of that Tender interview, she Remembered that when Mel antha had furpriz’d them, he made his Escape by the back Stairs into the Garden, and that when they went down, the Door was lock’d : Therefore Concluded it must be by a Key, that he had gain’d Admittance : And began to fet her Invention to Work, how to keep this Dangerous Enemy to her Honour, from coming in, a second Time. She had no Keys that were large enough to fill the Wards, and if she had put one in, on the inside, it wou’d have fallen out immediately on the least touch, but at last, after trying several ways, she tore her Hankerchief into small pieces, and thrust it into the hole with her Busk, sh hard that it was Imposhble for
any Key do enter.
/
Melliora thought she had done a very ho roick Action, and sat her shlf down on the Bedside in a pleas’d Contemplation of the Conquest, she believ’d her Virtue had gain’d over her Passion: : Alas! How little did She know the true State of her own heart? She noshoner heard a little noise at the Door, as presently after she did, but she thought it was the Count, and began to tremble, not with fear, but desire.
It was indeed Count d’elmont who had borrow’d Horses and a Servant of the Karon, and got into the Garden as before, but with a much greater Asturancenow of making himself entirely happy in the Gratification of his utmost wishes. But stis impoirible to Represent the Greatness of his Vexation and Surprise, when all his Efforts to open the Door, were in vain :
K 2 He.
  Ocy
He found something had been done to the Lock but cou’d* not Discover what, nor by any means remove the obstacle which Melliora had put there. She, on the other hand was in all the .Confusion imaginable : Sometimes prompted by the Violence of her Passion, She wou’d run to the Door, resolving to open it, and then, frighted with the Apprehension of what wou’d be the Consequence, as hastily sty from it; If he had stay’d much longer, ’tis poffiible Love wou’d have got the better of all other confide rations, but a light appearing on the other fide of the Garden, oblig’d the thrice dilappoiiit ment Lover to quit his Post. He had sent away the Horses by the Servant who came with him, and had no opportunity of going to the Baro that Night, so came to his own Sore gafe, and thunder’d with a Force, fiiitable to the Fury he was possessed with -, it was presently open’d, most of the Family being up. Alovysa had ray’d her self into Fits, and her disorder Created full Employment for the Servants, who ■ bnfily running about the House with Candles
fetching things for her occafion’d that Restestiou which he had seen
/
Count was told of his Ladies indisposition, but he thought he had sufficient pretence not to ceme where She was, after the message file had sent him by the Baron's Servant, and oteer’d a Bed to be made ready fcr him in another Chamber.
i ‘ ‘ >
Alovysa Icon heard he was come in, audit was with much ado, that her Women prevail d
I QU
4
X if
I
 ^
bn her not to rise and go to him that Moment, so little did she Remember what Sh had said. She pass’d the Night in most Terrible Inquietudes, and early in the Morning went to his ■ Chamber, but finding it Shut, she was oblig’d to wait, tho’ with a "World of Impatience, '’till she heard he was stirring, which not being still towards Noon, she spent all that Time in conll dering how she shou’d Accost him,
A s shon as the Servant whom she had order’d to watch, brought her Word that his Lord was Dreshng, she went into the Room, there was no body with him but his Gentleman, and he withdrawing out of Reffedt, imagiiiing by both their Countenances there might shmething be laid, not proper for him to hear. I see (said file) my Presence is unwish’d, but I have learn’d from you to shorn Constraint, and as you open ly avow your falsehood, I shall my Indignation, and my just Disdain 1 Madam ("answer’d he. Sullenly) if you have anything to reproach me with, you cou’d not have chose a more unlucky Time for it, than this, nor was I ever less dispos’d to give you Satisfastion. No, Barbarous Cold Infulter! (reshm’d she) I had not the feast hope you wou’d,! find that I am growm sh low in your Esteem, I am not worth pains of an Invention. -- -- By Heaven, this damn’d indifference is worse than the most vile Abuse!! --
plain Contempt! -- -- O that I cou’d resent
it as I ought -- Then Sword, or Poison shou’d
revenge me— — why am I sh Cursed to Love you still? -- O that those Fiends con
tinu’d file, bursting info Tears) that have Do
‘5 7. M ■/ r*5 j/
lorm tl
>
4
j : Or J
form’d thy Soul, wou’d Change thy Pershn too, tstrii every.dharm to horrid blaclcness, grim as thy Cruelty, and soul as thy Ingratitude, to free ' that Heart, thy Perjury has ruin’d. I sought Madam (said he, with an Accent Maliciously Ironical) that you had thrown off, even the Appearances of Love for me, by the Message you lent me Yesterday -- -- -- O thou Tormenter (Interrupted
she) hast thou not wrong’d me in the Tenderest point, driven me to the last Degree of
Misery! to Madness- -- -- -- -- Despair? And
'dost thou -- -- - can’st thou Reproach me for
Complaining? -- -- -- Your Coldness, yotir un
kiiidnefs stung me to the Soul, aud then I, said, I know not what— — I Remember well, that I wou’d have feem’d Careless, and Indifferent like you. You need not (reply""d he) give your shls the trouble of an Apology, I have no design to make a Quarrel of it: And wiffi, for both our Peace, you cou’d as easily moderate mur Passions, as I can mine, and that you may the better do sh, I leave you to refle<st on what I hae said, and the little Reashn I have ever given you, for shell Imtemperance. He left the Chamber with these Words, which instead of qi.ielling, more enfiam’d alovysa’s Rage. She threw her fels clown into an Elbow Chair that stood there, and gave a loose to the Tempest of her Soul; Sometimes she Cursed, and vow’d the bitterest Revenge: Sometimes she wept, and at others, was refolv’d to fly to Death, the only Remedy for neglected Love : In the midst of these confus’d Meditations, casting her Eye on a Table by her, she saw Paper and ibme thing written on it, which hastily taking up,
found
s
V
The Fatdl Inquiry jt
found it the count’s Character, and read (to her inexpreltible Torment) these Lines,
The Difpamng d’elmont to his
Repenting Charmer.
WHAT Cruel Star last Night, had Influence over my Inhumane Dear? Say, to what Cause inuji I Ascribe, my Fatal Difappointmsjtt?
For I wou’d fain believe I owe it not to Thee! --
Such an abion, after what thou hast Confessed, I copd., expeb from nothing hut a Creature of Mnn a entb. a’s Temper — No ’tis too much of the vain Coquet, and isidced, too much of the Jilt, for my Adorable to
he guilty of ■ — And yet -- Oh how stall I excuse
thee i -- When everything was hujifd, Darkness
my Friend, and all my Wiftjes raised, when every N ervie Trembled with Fierce Deflres, and my Fulfe
beat a call to Love, or Death, {for if I not enjoy
thee, that will soon arrive) then, then what, but thy self, forgetting all thy Vows, thy Tender Vows of the most Ardent Fajfion, cou’d have deftfoy ed my Hopes? — - Oh where was the?! that Love
A X,. ^ ^.
which lately Flatter d my fond doting Soul, when fl?tking, dying in my Arms, my Charmer lay I And fuffepd me to reap each Prologue favour to the greatest Blifs. but they arepaft, and rigid Honour stands to Guard those joys which -- •
There was no more written, but there needed no more to make Alovysa, before half Distrasted, now quite so. She was now convinc’d that she had a much more Dangerous Rival than Mel a nth a, and her Curiofiry
who
/
72 hove in Excess : Oir^
%
who it might he, was not much less Troublesome to her than her other Passions
■ /
was going to seek her Husband with this 'Testimony of his Infidelity in her Hand, when he, remembering he had left it there, Was coming hastily back to fetch it. The Excess of Fury which she met him with, is hardly to be imagin’d, she upbraided him in shch a Fashion as might be called reviling, and had so little regard to good Manners, or even Decency in what she said, that it Dissipated all the consufion he was in at first, to see so plain a proof against hini in her Hands, and rouz’d him to a Rage not much Inferior to her’s. She endeavour’d ftho’ she took a wrong method) to bring him to a Confession, he had done amiss, and he, to lay the Tempest of her Tongue by Storming louder,
'but neither succeeded in their wish: And he, stung with the bitterness of her Reproaches, and tired with Clamour, at last flung from her with a So j lemii Vow never to Eat, or Sleep with her more.
I
A Wife if equally haughty and jealous, if less fond than Alovysa will scarce be able to Comprehend the Greatness of her Sufferings: And it is not to be wonder’d at, that fly, so violent in all her Paifions, and Agitated by So many, at once. Committed a Thoussnd Extravagancies, which those who know the force but
of one, by the Aid of Reashn may avoid. She tore down the count’s Picture which hung in the Room, and stamp’d on it, then the Letter, her own Clothes, and Hair, and whoever had
Seen
V..., S
I

seen her in that Posture wou’d have thought shd appear’d more like what the Furies are represented to be, than a Woman.
• ^ \
The Count when he took leave the Night
before of the Baron d’e s per nay, had promised to return to him in the Morning, and give him an Account of his Adventure, with Melliora^ but the Vexation of his Disappointment, and Qriarrel with his Wife, having hindered him all this Time, the Barort came to his House, Impatient to know the success of an affair on which his own hopes dependedi He was told by the Servants that their Lord was above, and nm r ning hastily up without Ceremony, the first Person he saw was Alovysa, in the Condition 1 have difcrib’di
\ • * ^
The Baroit had Passionately lov’d this Lady from the first Moment he had seen her, but it was with that Sort of Love, which confiders more it’s own Gratification than the Interest, or quiet of the object Beloved. He imagin’d by the Wildness of alovysa’s Countenance and Behaviour that the Count had given her some Extraordinary occasion of Distaff and was sofar from being troubled at the Sorrow he beheld her in, that he rejoyc’d in it, as the Advancement of his Designs. But he wanted not cunning to disguise his Sentiments, and Approaching her with a Tender, and Submilfive Air, Entreated her to tell him the Cause of her Dishrder. Alovysa had always confider’d himasaper foii of worth, and one who was entitled to her Esteem by the vast Respect he always paid her,
L ■ and
V —.
7 : Oty
and the Admiration, which on every opportunity, he Expressed for her Wit and Beauty. She was not perhaps far from guessing the Extent of his Desires, by Some looks, and private Glances he had given her, and notwithstanding herpaffiion, for the Count, was too vain to be offended at it. On the Contrary, it pleas’d her Pride, and confirm’d her in the good Opinion Ihe had of her self, to think a Man of his Sense shou’d be compell’d by the force of her Irrefistable at trastions to adore, and to Despair,, therefore made no Difficulty of Disburthening all the Anguish of her Soul, in the Bosom of this, as she believ’d, so faithful Friend.
I
The Baron feem’d to receive this Declaration of her wrongs, with all Imaginable concern: And accus’d the Count of Stupidity in fb little knowing the value of a Jewel he was Master of, and gave her slime hints, that he was not nnfenfible who the Lady was, that had been the Cause of it, which Alovysa presently taking hold on, O speak her Name (said she) Qjiick, let me know her, or own thy Friendship was but feign’d to undo me, and that thou hat’st the Wretched Alovysa. O far (refum’d he) far k fjch thought, first let me Die, to prove my Zeal
■ -- my Faith, sincere to you, who only next
to Heaven, are worthy Adoration -- -- -- -- But forgive
me if I fajr, in this, you must not be obey’d,
O why? Said she, perhaps, (answer’d he) I am ^
trusted Pershn -- -- A Confident, and if I should
reveal the secret of my Friend, I know, - tho’ you approv’d the Treachery, yrou wou’d detest the Tray tor. O!' never (rejoyn’d she impatiently
Tl^fatal Inquiry. yte
entlj) ’twou'd be a Service, more than the
whole Study of my Life can pay. -- -- -- Am I not
rack’d, -- -- stak’d -- -- And Mangled in Idea? By
some dark Hand Shaded with Night and Ignorance, and should I not be grateful for a Friendly clue to guide me from this Labyrinth of Doubt, to a full day of certainty, where all the feind may stand expos’d before me, and I have Scope toexecute myvengeance.befidcs^continu’d she, finding he was filent and seemingly Extremely mov’d at what she said) ’tis joining in
the Cause of Guilt to hide her from me -- Come,
you must tell me... — - Your Honour suffers elfe
'— — Both that, and pity, plead the injur’d’s Cause. Alas (said he) Honour can never consent to a Discovery of what, with Solemn vows I
have promis’d to Conceal, but Oh -- -- -- There is
something in my Soul, more Powerful, whidi says, that Alovy sa must not be deny’d. Why then (cry’d fly) do you delay? Why keep me on the Rack, when one short word wou’d ease me of my Torment? I have confider’d (answer’d he after a pause) Madam, you shall be ^ satisfied, depend on it you shall, tho’ not this Moment, you shall have greater Proofs than
words can give you -- -- -- Occular Demonstration
shall strike Denial Dumb. What mean you ^ Interrupted she, you shall behold ('laid he) the Guilty pair. link’d in each others Arms. Oil Es PERN AY (rejoyn’d she) coud’st thou do that? -- -- -- ’tis easy (answer’d he) as I can order Matters But longer Conferrence may render me
fifpested -- -- ril go seek the Count, for he
must be my Engine to betray himself- -- -- -- a
Day or two, at farthest you shall enjoy all the Revenge Detestion can bestow,
L 2 Alo.
. - • • -- ft
y6 '  : Or
Alovysa wou’d fain have perfvaded him td have told her the Name of her Rival, in part of that full Gonvistion he had promis’d her, but in vaiii, and she was oblig’d to leave thelstiieof this Affair entirely to his Management.
The Baron was Extremely pleas’d with the Progress he had made, and did not doubt but for the purchase of this secret he shou’d obtain everything he desired of Alovysa. He found Count Dtlmont full of troubled and perr plexed Thoughts, and when he had heard the Hifiory of his Dissppointment : I am Sorry to hear (said he) that the foolish Girl does not know her own mind -- -- -- But come (my Lord continued
he, after a little pause) do not suffer your self to fink beneath a Caprice, which all those who Converse much with that Sex must frequently meet with -- -- -- 1 have a Contrivance ill
my Head, that cannot fail to render all her peevish Virtue frustrate : And make her happy in her own Difpite. Oh Eseernay! (reply’d the Count) thou talkest as Friendship Prompts. thee, I know thou wishest my Success, but Alas! So many, .and shch unforeseen Accidents have happen’d hitherto to prevent me, that I begin to think the Hand of Fate has fet me down for Lost. For shame my Lord (Interrupted the Baron)
be not sh ppor in Spirit -- -- -- -- Once more
I tell you that she shall be yours -- -- A Day or
two shall make her so -- -- -- And because I know
*
you Lovers are unbelieving, and impatient — I wdll Communicate the means. A Ball, and Entertmnment sh^ll be provided at my house,
tq
i
0
'^ -- -- -- -- -- -- 1 ^
I
 7
to which, all the Neighbouring People of Condition shall be envited, amongst the number your self, your Lady, and Melliora; it will be late before ’tis done, and I must persuade your Family, and slime others who live farthest off (to Countenance the Design) to stay all Night, all that you have to do, is to keep up your Resentment to Alovysa that you may have a pretence to fleej) from her : I shall take care to have Melliora plac’d where no Impediment may Bar your Entrance. Impolfible Suggestion / (cry’d d’elmqnt shaking his Head) Alovysa is in too much Rage of Temper to listen to shch an Invitation, and without her, we must not hope for Melliora. How indu ffrious are you (reshm’d the Baron) to Create Difficulties where there is none; Tho’ I Confess this may have, to you, a Reasonable Appearance of one. But know, my Friendship Builds it’s hopes to serve you on a sure Foundation -- -- This Jealous, Furious Wife, makes
me the Confident of her imagin’d Injuries, Conjures me to use all my Interest with you for a Reconcilement, and believes I am now Pleading for her -- -- -- -1 must for a while rail at
your Ingratitude, and Condemn your want of Taste, to keep my Credit with her, and now and then sweeten her with a Doubtful Hope that it may be poisible at last to bring you to acknowledge that you have been in an Error; this, at once Confirms her, that I am wholly on her fide, and Engages her to follow my Advice,
I,, * •

I
Though
• X

#
nothing Palls desire so much as too easy Stn Afliirance of means to gratify it, yet a little hope is ahshlutely necessary to preserve it, The fiery Willies of d’elmont’s Soul, besore, Chiird by despair, and half fiippreft with Clouding Griefs, blaz’d now, as Fierce, and Vigorous as ever, and he found so much prbbabh lity in what the ibaron said, that he was ready to Adore him for the Contrivance.
Thus all Parties but Melliora remain’d in a sort of a pleas’d Expestratioii. The Count doubted not of being happy, nor Alovysa of having her Curiosity fatisfy’d by the Baroih Assistance, nor himself of the reward he defign’d to demand of her for that good Service, and each long’d Impatiently for the Day, or rather Night, which was to bring this great Affair to a Period. Poor Melliora was the only per ion, who had no Iiiteival of Comfort. restrain’d by Honour, and enfiam’d by Love, her •very Soul was torn : And when she found that Count d’elmont made no attempt to get into her Chamber again, as she imagin’d he wou’d, ihe fell into a Despair more terrible than all her former Inquietudes, she presently fancy’d that the Disappointment he had met with, the Kight before, had driven the hopeless Passion from his Heart, and the Thoughts of being no longer Beloved by him were unsupportable. She saw him not all that Day, nor the next, the quarrel between him and Alovysa having caus’d separate Tables, she was oblig’d in Decency, to eat at that where she was, and had
the
V
9
t
^
0 ■
The Fatal Enquiryi 7p
••»
the Mortification of hearing herself curs’d every Hour, hythe enrag’d wise, in the Name of her unknown Rival, without daring td speak a Word in her own Vindication
I N the mean time the Baron Diligent to make good the Promishs he had given the Count and Alovysa, for his own Ends, 'got everything ready, and came himself to d’elmont’s House, to entreat their Company at his. Now Madam (faidhe) to Alovysa the time is come to prove your Servants Faith : This Night shall put an end to your uncertainty : They had no opportunity for further Speech, Melliora came that Moment into the Room, who being ask’d to go to the Ball, and seeming a little unwilling to appear at any Public Diversion by Reason of the late Death of her Father, put the Baron in a Mortal Apprehension for the success of his Undertaking : But Alovysa join ing in his Entreaties she was at last: prevail’d upon : The Count went along wfith the Baron in his Chariot: And the Lady loon follow’d in an other.
There was a vast: deal of Company there, ’ and the Count danc’d with several of the Ladies, and was Extremely gay amonst them : Alovysa watch’d his Behaviour, and regarded every one of them, in their Turn, with Jealousy, but was far from having the least: Suspicion of her whom only she had Cause.
Tho’ Mell ior a’s greatest Motive to go was, because she might have the happiness of feeing
her
\
8o   : Ocy
her Admired cotjnt • a Blessing, ssie had nol enjoy’d these two Dayrs, yet she took but little Satisfadfion in that View, without an opportunity of being spoke to by him : But that un eassncfs was remov’d, when the serious Dances being over, and they all joining in a grand Ballet: He every now, and then, got means to ' say a Thousand tender Things to her, press’d
her Hand whenever he turn’d her, and wou’d sometimes when at Distance from Alovysa jiretend to be out, on purpose to stand still, and talk to her. This kind of Behaviour Ba nistim, part of her Sufferings, for tho’ she cou’d Constder both his, and her own Passion in lio other view, than that of a very great Misfortune to them both, yet there are so many Pieashres even in the Pains of Love : Such tender Thrillings, such Soul ravissiing amusements
attend some happy Moments of Contemplation, that those who most Endeavour, can Wish but faintly to be freed from.
When it grew pretty late, the Barok made a ' lign to the Count to follow him into a little Room joining to that where they were, and when he had; now my Lord (said he) I doubt not but this Night will make you entirely pos fessbr of your Wishes : I have prolong’d the Entertainment on purpose to detain those who ’tis necessary for our Dessgn, and have or der’d a Chamber for Melliora which has no Impediment to Bar your Entrance; O! Thou best of Friends (answer’d d’elmont) how shall I requite thy ^ goodness > In making (resum’d the Baron) a right ush of the opportunity I give
yoii,
nv >■. T
.
*
/
I
 1
t
ydti^ For if you do not, you render Fruitless all the Labours of my Brain, and make me wretched while my Friend is sh. Oh! fear me not (cry’d d’elmont in a Raptiire) I will not be deny’dj each faculty of my Soul is bent upon Enjoyment, tho’ Death in all it’s various Horrors glar’d upon me, i’d shorn ’em all in Mel.. Arms -- — D!! very Name Transports me -- -- New fires my Blood, arid tingles
in my vaihs -- -- Iriiagination points out all her
Charms -- -- -- Methinks I see her lie in Sweet
Gonfuston — i — Fearing; -- -- Wishing— — - —
‘ her glowing Cheeks — Her doling dying Eyes
• -- Her every kindling -- -- Oh ’tis too vast for
Thought I Even fancy flags, and, cannot reach her Wonders! As he was speaking, Mel antha who had taken notice of his going out of the Room, and had follow’d him with a deligil of talking to him, came time enough to hear the latter part of what he slid, but feeing her Brother with him withdrew with as much hast as she came, and Infinitely more uneasiness of Mind, she was now but too well assur’d that she had a greater Difficulty than the count’s Matrimonial Engagement to get over, before she cou’d reach his Heart, and was ready to burst with Vexation to think she was supplanted: : of a Thoushnd Tormenting Reflections she return’d to the Ball Room, and was so out of Humour all the Night that she cou’d hardly be Commonly Civil to anybody that spoke to her.
At last the hour so much defir’d by the Co V n T, the Baron, and Alovysa (tho’ for various Reasons) was arriv’d : The Company broke up
M thosh
8 2 hove in Excess f: Ocy
thosh who liv’d near, which were the greatest part went home, the others, being Entreated by the Baron stay’d. When they were to be Conducted to their Chambers, he call’d Mel an
THA and defir’d She wmstd take care of the Ladies as he fhou’d Direct, but above all charg’d to place Alovysa and Melliora III two Chambers which he show’d her.
\
Mela NT HA was now let into the shcret Ihe so much defir’d to know, the Name of her ri val, which she had not come time enough to hear, when she did the count’s Rapturous Description of her She had before found out, that her Brother was in Love with Alovysa, and did not doubt but that there was a double Intrigue to be carry’d on that Night, and was the more confirm’d in that Opinion, when Ihe i remembered that the Baron had ordered the Lock that day to be taken off the Door of that • Chamber where Melliora waste be lodg’d. It presently came into her Head, to betray all she knew to Alovysa, but she soon rejested that Resolution for another, which she thought wou’d give her a more pleasing Revenge : She Coiidusted all the Ladies to such Chambers as she thought fit, and Alovysa to that her Brother had defir’d, having no design of Disappointing him, but Melliora she led to one where she always lay her self, roshlving to Supply her place in the other, where the Count was to come : Yes (said she to her self) I will receive his Vows in melliora’s Room, and when I find him rais’d to the highest Pitch of Expectation, declare who I am, and Awe him
into
I
\ _ _____________
 5
6
into tamenefstwill be a Charming piece of Vengeance, besides if he be not the most Ungrateful Man on Earth, he must Adore my Generosity in not Exposing him to his Wife, when I have him in my power, after the Coldness, he has us’d me with.she found something sh pleasing ill this Contrivance, that no Considerations whatever cou’d have Power to deter her from pursuing it.
When the Baron found everything was fi lent, and ready for his imrposh, he went softly to Count d’elmont’s Chamber, where he was impatiesttly Expelled, and taking him by the Hand, led him to that, where he had ordered Melliora to be lodg’d, when they were at
the Door, you see my Lord (laid he) I have kept my Promish : There lies the Idol of your Soul, go in, be bold, and all the Happiness you wish attend you. The Cohnt was in too great a hurry of diforder’d Thoughts to make him any other answer than a Passionate Embrace, and gently pushing open the Door, which had no fastning to it, left the Baron to Prosecute the remaining part of his Treacherous Design.
Alovysa had all the time of her being at the Barons, endur’d most grievous Racks of Mind, her Husband appear’d to her, that Night, more Gay, and more Lovely if possible than ever, but that Contentment which sat up,, his Face, and added to his Graces, stung her to the Soul, when she Reflested how little
Simpathy thdr was between them, scarce a M toth
M 2
\
8  :
(said she to her self) was I bless with those looks of Joy, a pensive fullenness has dwelled upon his Brow e’re since, ’till now, ’tis from my ruin that his Pleasure flows, he hates me, and re joyces in a pretence, tho’ ne’er fb poor a one, to be absent from me. She was inwardly toss’d with a Multitude of these, and the like perturbations, thol the Assurance the Baron had given her of Revenge, made her Conceal them tolerably well, while she was in Company, but when She was left alone ist the Chamber, and perceiv’d the Baron did stot come sh fbon she expected. Her Rage broke out in all ffe violence Imaginable : She gaye a loosh to every furious Passion, and when she saw biiu enter, Cruel Es PERN AY (said she) where haye you beon! — — Is this the Friendship which you vow’d? To leave me here Diflrastefi with my Griefs, while isty perfidious Husband, and the Curled she, that robs me of him, are perhaps, ashap ^ py, as their Guilty Love can make theni? Madam (answer’d he) ’tis but a Moment since they are met, a Moment! (Interrupted she) a Moment is too much the fistalleft Particle of Undivided Time, may stiake my Rival blessed, and vastly Recompense for all that my Revenge can do. Ah Madam (refum’d the Baron) how Dearly, do you still Love, that most Tngrateful Man: I had hopes that the full Knowledge pf his Falsehood might have made you shorn though scorner, I shall be able by tomorrow fyeply’d the Cunning Alovysa whc knew his drift well enough) to give you a better Account
of my Sentiments than now I can: -- -- -- -- -- -- But
why do we delay (continu’d she jmpatiently)are
•' ■' i - ■ ■ "they
. ■«
*•
'^
A
J
ft

4
/
they not together? — The Baron saw this was no time to press her farther, and therefore taking a Wax candle which stood on the Table, in one Hand, and offering the other to lead her, I am ready Madam (said he) to make good my Promise, and shall Esteem no other Hours of my Life happy but thole which may be serviceable lo you : They had only a small part of a Gallery to go thro’, and Al ovy s a had no time to answer to these last Words, if she had been com pos’d enough to have done it, before they were at the Door, which as soon as thp Baron had brought her to, he withdrew with all yioffible Speed.
Tho’ the Count had been but a very little time in the Arms of his fuppos’d Mel L ior a, yet he had made so good use of it, and had taken fb much Advantage of her complying Humour, that all his Fears were at an End, he now thought himself the most Fortunate of all Mankind and Mela nth a was far from repenting the Breach of the Resolution she had made of Difeovering herself to him. His Behaviour to her was all Rapture, all killing Ecstasy, and she flatter’d herself with a Beleif, that when he shou’d come to know to whom he ow’d that Bliss he had possess’d, he would not be ungrateful for it.
What a confus’d Consternation must this Pair be in, when Alovy s a rush’d into the ijloom 5 — — ‘ ’tis hard to say, which was the greatest, the count’s Concern for his imagin’d Mell lor a’s Honour, or Mel a nth a’s for her ovni but if one may form a judgement from the
Levity
/
% : Ory
S
Levity of the one’s Temper, and the generosity of the other’s, one may believe that his had thepre heminence : But neither of them were so lost in Thought, as not to take what measures the Place and Time woii’d permit, to baffle the Fury of this incensm Wife; Mel an tha stunk under the Clothes, and the Count started up in the Bed at
, the first Appearance of the Light, which Al o vy s a
had in her Hand, and in the most angry Accent he cou’d turn histoice to, ask’d her the Reason of her coming there; Rage, at this Sight (prepar’d and arm’d for it as ihe was) took away all power of Utterance from her; but she stew to the Bed, and began to tear the Clothes (which M e L a n t h a held fast over her Head) in sh violent a manner, that the C o u n t found the only way to Tame her, was to meet Force with Force; so jumping out, he fiez’d on her, and throwing her into a Chair, and holding her down in it. Madam, Madam (said he) you are Mad, and I as such shall life you, unless you promish to return quietly, and leave me. She cou’d yet bring forth no other
Words, than Villain, -- -- -- Monsterl and suchlike
Names, which her Passion and Injury shggested which he but little regarding but for the noise she made •, for shame (resum’d he) Exposh not thus your self and me, if you cannot Command your Temper, at least confine your Clamours — I will not stir (said she, raving and struggling to get Loose) ’till I have shen the Face that has undone me. i’ll tear out her bewitching Eyes — the Cursed adultress! and leave her Mistress of fewer Charms than thou canst find in me: She spoke this with sh elevated a Voice, that the Count endeavour’d to stop her Mouth, that she
inight
I
. ■
 7
might not alarni the Company that were in the House, but he cou’d not sh it time enough to
prevent her from Schrikeing out Murder. -- -- --
Help! or the Barbarous Man will kill me 1 At these Words the Baron came running in immediately, full of Surprise and Rage at something he had met with in the mean time : How came this Woman here, cry’d the Count to him : Ask me not my Lord (said he) for I can answer nothing, but everything this Curled Night, I think, has happened by Enchantment •, he was going to say something more, but several of his Guests hearing a Noise, and cry of Murder, and dirested by the Lights they saw in that Room, came in, and presently after a great many of the Servants, that the Chamber was as full as it cou’d hold: The Count let go his Wife on the Sight of the first Stranger that enter’d; and indeed, there was no need of his Confining her in that Place (tho’ he knew not so much) for the violence of so many contrary Passions warring in her, Breast at once, had thrown her into a Swoon, and she fell back when he let go his Hold of her, Motionless, and in all appearance Dead. The Count said little, but began to put on his Clothes, asham’d of the Posture he had been seen in; but the Baron endeavour’d to persuade the Company, that it was only a Family Quarrel of no Consequence, told them he was shrry for the Disturbance it had given them, and defir’d them to return to their Rest, and when the Room was pretty clear, order d two or three of the Maids to carry Alovysa to her Chamber, and apply Things proper for her Recovery; as they were bearing her out, Melliora who had been frighted as well as the
rest
8  : Off
rest with the Noise she heard, was riirining along the Gallery to see what had happen’d, and met them; her Trouble to find alovvsa in that Condition was unfeign’d, and she assisted those that were employ’d about her, and accompany’d them where they carry’d her.
The Count was going to the bed fide to comfort the conceal’d Fair, that lay still under the Clothes, when he saw Melliora at the Door: What Surprise was ever equal to his, at this View? — He stood like one transfix’d with Thundest he knew not what to think, or rather cou’d not think at all. Confounded with a seeming impolsi bility. He beheld the Pershn, whom he thought had lain in his Arms, whom he had enjoy’d, whosh Bulk and Proportion he still saw in the Bed, whom he was just going to Address to, and for whom he had been in all the Agonies of Soul imaginable, come from a distant Chambetj and miconcern’d, ask cooly how Alovysa came to be taken ill: He look’d confusedly about, sometimes on Melliora, sometimes toward the Bed, and shmetimes on the Baron am I awake (said he) or is everything I see and hear Illusion?? Baron cou’d not presently reshlve after what manner he shou’d answer, tho’ he perfestly knew V the Truth of this Adventure, and who was in the
Bed; for, when he had Condusted Alovysa to that Room, in order to make the Discovery he had promis’d, he went to his sister’s Chamber, designing to abscond there, in cafe the Count shou’d fly out on his wife’s Entrance, and feeing him there, iinagine who it was that betray’d him; and finding though Door shut, knock’d and call’d to
have
4
N
 ^
have it open’d; Melliora, who began to think she shou’d lye in quiet nowhere, ask’d who was there, and what he wou’d have; I wou’d speak ^ iny Sister {'repljr’d he, as much astonish’d then, to hear who it was that answer’d him, thecount was now to see her) and Mell ior a having affur’d him that she was not with her, left him no room to doubt, bjr what means the Exchange had been made : Few Men, how amorous Soever themselves, care that thefemale part of their Family sliou’d be so, and he was most fencibly • mortify’d with it, but reflesting that it cou’d not be kept a secret, at least from the Count, ' my Lord (said he, pointing to the Bed) there lies the Cause of your Amazement, that Wicked Woman has betray’d the Trust I repos’d in her, and deceiv’d both you and me; rile continu’d he, throwing open she Curtains, thou shame of thy Sex, and everlasting Blot and Scandal of the Noble .Doiife thou art descended from; rise, I say, ^ or I will stabb thee here in this Scene of Guilt; in speaking these Words, he drew out his Sword, and appear’d in shch a real Fury, that the Count tho’ more and shore amaz’d with everything he Saw and heard, made no doubt but he wou’d db *
as he said, and run to hold his Arm.
^ /
As no Woshan that is Mistress of a great share of Wit be a Coquet, sono Woman that hasi hot a little cmhe one: Melantha, tho’ frighted so Death with these tmexpested Occurrences, ^ feign’d a Courage, which she had not in reality, and thrusting her Head a little above the Clothes, Bless me Brother (said she) I vow I do not knew Irnat you mean by all this Bustle, neither am I
N' guilty
*
I
I •

guilty of any Crime: I was vexed indeed to be made a property ost and chang’d Beds with Melliora for a little innocent Revenge for I always defign’d to Discover my self to the Count time enough to prevent Mischief. The Baron was not so silly as to believe what Ihe said, tho’the Count as much as he hated her, had too much Generosity to Contradict her, and keeping still hold of the Baron, come esper nay (Said he) I believe your sister’s Stars and mine have from our Birth been at Variance, for this is the third Disappointment She has given me; once III Mell ior a’s Chamber, then in the Wild, erncfs, and now here, but I forgive her, therefore let us retire and leave her to her Repose. The Baron was sensible that all the Rage in the Vforld cou d not recall what had been done, and only giving her a furious Look, went with the Count out of the Room, without saying anything more to her at that time.
The Baron with much Entreating, at last p revai r d on Co u N t D’ e L M o N T to go into his * Bed, where he accompany’d him; but they were both of them too full of troubled Meditations to Sleep: His sister’s Indiscretion vexed the Baron to the Heart, and took away great part of the' Joy, for the fresh Occasion the counthadgi
given Alovysa to withdraw her Astestion from Him. But with what Words can the various Passions that agitated the Soul of d’elmont be defcrib’d? The Transports he had enjoy’d in an imaginary Felicity, were now turn’d tofo many real Horrors -, he saw himself expos’d to ' all the “World, for it wou’d have been Vanity to
the
I
  p i
t
the last Degree, to hef ieve this Adventure wou’d he kept a secret, but what gave him the most bitter Refiestion was, that Melliora, when She shoifd know ist as he cou’d not doubt but she immediately would be told it by Alovysa; wou’d judge of ir by the Appearance, and believe him, at once, the most vicious, and most false of Men.
As for his Wife he thought not of her, with any Compassion for his Sufferings, but with Rage and Hate, for that jealous Curiosity, which he suppos’d had led her to watch his Astions thatnighst (for he had not the least suspicion of the Barun)
Mel A NT HA he always difpis’d, but new detested, for the Trick she had put upon him; yet thought it wou’d be not only unmanly, but barbarous to let her know he did sh : It was in vaiii for him to endeavour to come to a determination after what manner he shou’d behave him
\
to any of them, and when the Night was past in forming a thousand several Resolutions, the Morning found him as much to seek as before :
He took his Leave early of the Baron, not being willing to see any of the Company after what had happen’d, ’till he was more compos’d.
H E was not deceiv’d in his Conjedures concerning Melliora, for Alovysa was no shon er recover’d from her Swoon, than she with bitter Exclamations told her what had been the Occasion, and put that astonish’d fair one into shch. a visible Dishrder, as had she not been too full of Mishry to take Notice of it, had made her easily perceive that llie was deeply Interested in the Story: but whatever she slid against the
Count, as fly cou’d not forbear Sometning, call
N 2 ing
J t *
  Ocj
Ing him Ur sratefiil, perjur’d, Deceitful, and Inconstant, Alovysa took only, as a proof of Friendship to 1 er L lf, and the effedls of that just [ncligiiation all 'Women ought to feel for him, that takes a Pride in injuring any one of them.
WHEN the Count was gone, the Baron Sent
to A L o ' Y s A to inquire of her Health, and if he ndght ^: avc I' ave to Visit her in her Chamber,
. and being told she defirsh he shou’d, refoly’d now
to make ds Demand. Melliqra had but just: parted from her, in order to get herself ready to go home, and she was alone when he came in. As Soon as the first Civilities were over, she began afresh to Coniute him to let her know the Name pf her Rival, which he artfully evading, tho’ not absolutely denying, mash her almost Distrasted, the Baron carefully obferv’d her every Look and Motion, and when he found her Impatience was rais’d to the highest Degree •, Madam (said he, taking her by the Hand and looking tenderly on her) you cannot blame a Wretch, who has lavish’d all he had away to one poor Jewel, to make the most ho can of that, to Supply his future ’wants : I have already forfeited all pretence to Honour, and even common Hospitality, by betray ing the Trust that was repos’d in me, and exposing under my own Roof, the Man who takes me for his dearest Friend, and what elfe I have fuffer’d from that unavoidable Imnulfe which compell d me to do all this, your self may judge, who too well know the Pangs, and Tortures of ncglcsted Love — Therefore (continu’d he. with
a deep Sigh) since this last reserve is all my Hopes depeiiclaiice, do not, Oh Charming Alovysa
^ • *- • "1 * T '
tiiinic
\ id V
ft
* *

think me Mercinary, if I presume to feta price upon ist which I confess too high, yet nothing Ids can Purchase: : Price (replysh Alovysa, who thought a little Condescension was necessary to win him to her purpose) can be too dear to buy my Peace, nor Recompense too great for .shch a Service : What, not your Love? laid the Baron eagerly kissing her Hand: No (refum’d she, forcing herself to look kindly on him) not even that, when such a Proof of your’s Engages it; but do not keep me longer on the Rack give me the Name and then. — — She spoke tl^fe last Words with such an Air of Languishment, that the Baron thought his Work was done, and growing Bolder, from her Hand he proceeded to her Lips, and answersh her only in Kisses, which distastful as they were to her, she fusser’d him to take without resistance, but that was not all he wan
V ^ J ^
ted, and believing this the Critical Minute, he threw his Arms rostfid her Waste, and began to draw her by little and little toward the Bed, which she affested to permit with a kind of an unwilling Willingness; saying, well, if you wou’d have me be able to deny you nothing you can ask, tell me the Name I so much wish to know: But the Baron was as Cunning as she,
and feeing thro’ her Artifice, was reshlv’d to make sure of his Reward first; Yes, yes, my a dorable Alovysa (anfwestd he, having brought her now very near the Bed) you shall immediately kiiow all; thy Charms will force the Secret from my Breast, close as its lodg’d within my inmost Soul. -- -- Dying with Rapture, I will tell
,; thee alli— — a thought of this injurious Husband can Interposh amidst Extatick Joys. 1 What will not slime Women venture to satisfy a
I jea
/
  r .* Or
\
Curiosity?? sa had feign’d to Consent to his Desires sin hopes to engage him to a a Discovery) fb far, and had given liiin so many Liberties, that now, it was as much as she costd do to save herself, from the utmost Violence, • and perceiving She had been outwitted, and that nothing but the really yielding up her Honour cou’d oblige him to reveal what she defir’d. Villain (said she, struggling to get loose from his Embrace) dare thy base Soul believe so vilely of me? release me from thy detested Hold, or my Cries shall force thee to it, and proclaim thee for what thou art, a Monster! The Baron was s;; riot enough deluded by'her pretence of kindness' ' : be much furpriz’d at this sudden turn of her
Behaviour, and only cooly answer’d. Madam, I have no Design of uling Violence, but perceive, if I had depended on your Gratitude, I had been miserably deceiv’d. Yes (said she looking Contemptibly on him) I own thou wou’d’st •, for whatsoever I might say, or thou cou’dst hope, I Love my Husband still, with an unbated fondness, dote upon him 1 faithless and cruel as he is, he still is lovely! his Eyes loose nothing of their Brightness, nor his Tongue its softness I his very Frowns have more Attraction in them, than any others Smiles 1 and canst thou think? Thou, So disterent in all from him, that thou feemsh not the same Species of Humanity, nor ought’stto style thy self a Man, since he is no more; can’ll thou, I say, believe a Woman, Blessed as Alovy sa has been, can e’re blot out the dear Remembrance and quit her Hopes of regain’d Paradise in his Embrace, for certain Hell in Thine? She spoke these Words with so much Scorn, that the Baroij
skliri
4
I ^
4
J
t
 5
skill’d as he was in every Art to Tempt, cou’d not conceal the spite he conceiv’d at them, and letting go her Hand (which perforce he had held) I leave you. Madam (said he) to the pleashre of En joying your own Humour; neither that, nor your Circumstances are to be envy’d, but I wou’d have you to remember that you are your own Tormentor, while you refuse the only means can bring you Ease. I will have Ease another way (Said she, incens’d at the Indignity she imagin’d he treated her withj and if you still perish in refilling to discover to me the Person who has injur’d me, I shall make no difficulty of letting the Count know how much of his Secrets you have Imparted, and for what Reason you conceal the othef: You may do so (answer’d he)
and I doubt not but you will -- -- Mischief is the
darling favourite of Woman! Blood, is the satis fastion perhaps, that you require, and if I fall by him, or he by me, your Revenge will have its Aim, either on the Unloving, br the unlov’d; for me, I fet my Life at nought, without your Love, his Hell but do not think that even dy ing, to purchase Absolution Td reveal one Letter of that Name, you fb much wish to hear, the Secret shall be Buried with me. -- Yes, Madam
(continu’d he with a malicious Air) that happy Fair unknown, whose Charms have made you wretched, shall undifcover’d, and unguefs’d at. Triumph in those Joys, you think none but your Count can give. Alovysa had not an, Opportunity to make any Answer to what he said; Melliora came that Moment' into the Room, and ask’d if she was ready to go, and Alovysa
say
♦ '
^  : Off
d
saying that she was, they both departed from the baron’s House, without much Ceremony on either fide.
*
Alovysa had not beeii long at home before 3 Messenger came to acquaint her, that her Sister having mist of her at Parts, was now on her Journey to Le Beaufe, and wou’d be with her in a few Hours : She rejoyc’d as much at this News, as it was possible for one so full of disquiet to do, and Ordered her Chariot and Six to be made ready
again, and went to meet her.
\
d’elmont heard of An sell lir a’s comings almost as fbon as Alovysa, and his complai lance for Ladies,, joyifd with the extreaih desire he had of feeing his Brother,, whom he believ’d was with her, wou’d certainly have given him Wings to have flown to them with all imaginable Speed, had not the late Quarrel bet uten him and his Wife, made him think it was improper, to join Company, with her on any Account whatever : He was sitting in his Dressing-room Window in a melancholy and 'disturb’d Meditation, ruminating on every Circumstance of his last Nights Adventure, when he perceiv’d a couple of Horsemen come Galloping over the Plain, and make direstly toward his House. The Dust they made, kept him from Distinguifliing who they were, and they were very near the Gate besore he discover’d them to be the chevalierbr il L ia n, and his Servant: The Surprise he was in to see him without Ansellina was very great, but much more so, when running down, as Soon as lie saw he was alighted, and opening his Arms
eagerly
I
The Fatal Enquiirf.
'J. • /■.
^ -. •' ' i.
^ ^ r
gerly to Embrace him; the other drawing back;
No, my Lord (laid he) since you are pleas’d td forget 1 am your Brother • I pretend no other way to rherit your Embraces: Nor can think it any Happyheis to hold him in my aritst Who keeps me distant from his Heart. What mean you (cry’d ptestmont, extremely astonish’d at his Behaviour) you. know sh little (resinn’d the Chevalier) of the power of Lobe, yourself, that perhaps, you think I ought not to resent what you have done to ruin me in mine: But, however Sk, Ambition is a Passion, which you are not a Stranger to, and having fettled your own Fortune according to ybur Wish, methinks you shou’d not wonder that I take it 111, when j^oii endeavour to prevent my doing foto, The coitiirt was perfestly Confounded at thefewords, and looking earnestly on him *, Brother (said he) you stem to lay a heavy Acctifation on me, but if you still retain sh much of that formet Affection Which Was between ust as to desire I shou’d be clear’d III your Esteem, you must be more plain in your Charge, for tho’ I easily perceive that I am wrong’d, 1 cannot see by what means I am fd. jviy Lord, you are not wrong’d (cry’d the Chevalier hastily) you kiiow you are ilot: If my Tongue were filent, the Despair that sits upon my Brovst iny alter’d Looks, and grief sunk Eyes, wou’d proclaim your Burbarous — most unnatural u fage of irie. Ungratefiil Brillian (said the Count, at once infiam’d with Tenderness and Anger) is thi^ the Consolation I expected from your Preshnee? I know not for what Cause lam Upbraided, being Innocent of any, nor what your
Troubles are, but I am sure my own are Such, as
0 needy
•
. %
I
IV T
t
A
f
9 ': Or
needed not this Weight to overwhelm me. He spoke this sh feelingly, and concluded with so deep a sigh as most lencibly touch’d the Heart of Brillian. ifi cou’d believe that you had any freply’d he) it were enough to Sink me quite, and rid me of a Life which An sell in a’s loss has made me Hate. What said you (Interrupted the Cou N t) ansellina’s loss?? that be true, I pardon all the wildness of your unjust Reproaches, for well I know, Despair has linall Regard to Reashn, but quickly speak the Cause of
your Misfortune : -- -- -1 was about to inquire ste
Reashn that 1 saw you not together, when your unkind Behaviour drove it from my Thoughts. That Question (answer’d the Chevalier') ask’d by you, some Moments since, wou’d have put me past all the remains of Patience, but I begin to hope I am not so unhappy as I thought, but still am blessed in Friendship, tho’undone in Love — But i’ll not keep you longer in suspense, my Tale of Grief is short in the Repeating, tho’ everlasting in its Conshquence. In saying this, he sat down, and the Count doing the like, and astuting him of Attention, he began his Relation in this manner.
V
Your Lordship may remember that 1 gave mu an Account b Letter of Ansell in a'slndif polition, and the Fears I was in for her; but by the time I receiv’d yrour Answer, I thought iuj self the happ3rest of Mankind: She was perfestly recoyer’d, and every Day I receiv’d new Proofs. of her Astection : We began to talk now of coming to Paris, and she seem’d no less Iinpatient for that Journey than my self; and one Evening, the
last

last I ever had the Honour of her Converfation’ she told me that in Spite of the Physicians caii tidi she wou’d leave in three or four Days:
You may be shre I did not difivvade her from that Reshlution; bust how great was my Astonishment, when going the next Morning to the ba ronejjes, to give the Ladies the Bon jour, as I constantly did every Morning, I perceiv’d an un ushal Coldness in the Face of every one in the Family; the Baroneji herself spoke not to me, but to tell me that an&ellina wou’d see no Company : How, Madam, Said I, am I not excepted from those general Orders, What can this • sudden Alteration in my Fortune mean? I flippofe (replied she) that Ansellina hasher Reashns for what she does : I said all that Despair cou’cl Suggest to oblige her to give me slime light into this Mystery, but all was in vain, she either made me no Anfivers, or such as were not Satisfastory, and growing weary with being'importun’d, she abruptly went out of the Room, and left me in a Confusion not to be exprefs’d: I renew’d my Visit the next Day, and was then deny’d Admittance by the Porter: The same the following one, and as Servants commonly form their Behaviour, according to that of those they serve, it was easy for me to observe I was far from being a welcome Guest: I writ to Ansellina, but had my Letter return’d unopen’d : And that Scorn so unjustly throwm upon me, tho’ it did. not absolutely Cure my Pashon, jret it ftirstd up so much just Resentment in me, that it abated very much of its Tenderness;;
a Fortnight I remain’d in this Perplexity, and at the end of it was plung’d into a
O 2 greater
V
V
ft
ft
ft
I
A
too   Ofj
\
4
greater, when I receiv’d a little bidet from an f ELLINA, which as I remember contain d ihefe Words.
te. A A;.,
^ « •
A N S E L LIN A to the Chevalier
• • ^ ' ■ >• - ' S'
Brillian.
I..
• k..
A '
(
I Sent your Letter hack without pernjiejg, believing it might contain something of a subjeb which I atn refolv’d to encourage no farther : I do not think it proper at present to acquaint y ou with my Reasons I for ithit if I see you at Paris, you pall know them: |
J fet out for thence td Morrow, hit defre you not to pretend to Accompany me thither, if you wou’d preserve the bjlfeni of, Ansellina, ' ]
^ ft,
ft
*1
I Cannot but say, I thought this manner of proceeding very odd, ' and vastly different from ■ that openiiefs of Nature, I always admir’d ill her, but as I had been always a most obfeqiii bus Lover; T rcshly’d not to forfeit that cha iraster, aiid give a Proof of an implicite Obedience to'her Will, 'tho’ with wbat Anxiety of I Mind you may iihagine. 'J stood at a distance, j and saw her take Coach, astd as shon as her At I tendants were out of sight, ' I goton Horseback, I and follow’d; ' I several Tinies lay at the farhe j Inn where she die], but took care not to appear I before her; Never was any sight more pleasing j
'te I
  '
b '
te me, thin that of Paris, because I there hop’d to have my Destiny unravellm; but your being out of Town, preventing her making any stay, I was reduc’d to another trial of Patience; about Ibine Seven Furlongs from hence, hapning Jo Bait at the same Cabaret with her, I Saw her wb man, who had been always perfectly obliging to me, walking alone in the Garden; I took the liberty to show my self to her, and ask her some Questions concerning my future Fate, to which she answer’d with all the Freedom I cou’d desire,
V — ^
and observing the Melancholy which was but too apparent in my Countenance : Sir, said she, tho’ I think nothing can be more blame worthy then to Betray the Secrets of our Superiors, yet I hope I shall stand excus’d for declariilg so much of my lady’s, as the Condition you are in, seems to require; I wou’d not therefore have you believe that in this Separation, you are the only Sufferer, I can assure you, my Lady bears her part of
Sorrow to. -- How can that be possible (cry’d I)
when my Misfortune is brought upon me, only by the change of her Inclination? Far from it
(answer’d she) you have a Brother -- he only is
to blame, she has receiv’d Letters from Madam
D’ELMONT which have -- -- -- -- As she was speaking,
she was call’d hastily away, without being able to fiiiish what she was about to say, and I was so Impatient to hear : Her naming you in such a manner, 'planted ten Thousand Daggers in my Soul! — What cou’d I imagine by those Words, Tou have a Brother, he ojtly is to Blame, and her mentioning Letters from that brother’s Wife; but that it was thro’ you I was made wretched, I repeated several times over to my self, what she ^0 ^ had
x02 hove in Excess: Or
had said, but cou’d wrest no other Meaning from it, than that you being already postefs’d of the Elder sister’s Fortune, were willing to Engross the other’s too, by preventing her from Marrying : Pardon me, my Lord, if I have injiir’d you, since 1 protest, the thoughts of your designing my Undoing, was, if possible more dreadful to me than the 111 it self:
:
tr will, reply’d the Cotr NT, be shon convinc’d, how little Hand I had in thosh Letters, whatever they contain’d, when you have been here a few Days. He then told him of the Disagreement between himfelsstnd Alovysa, her perpetual Jealousy, her Pride, her Rage, and the little probability there was of their being e ver reconcil’d, sh as to live together as they ought, omitting nothing of the storr but his Love for Mell IORA, and the Cause he had given to create this uneasiness. They both concluded, that Ansell IN a’s Alteration of Behaviour was entirely owing to something her Sister had written, and that she wou’d use her utmost Endeavour to break off the Match wholly, in Revenge to her Husband: As they were dif courfing on means to prevent it, the Ladies came to the Gate • they saw them thro’ the "Window, and ran to receive them immediately : The Count handed n sell in a out of the Coach, with great Complaisance, while the Chevalier wou’d have done the same by Alovysa, but she wou’d not permit him, which the Count observing, when he had paid those Compliments to her Sister, which he thought Civility requii’d. Madam (said he, turning to her and frowning)
IS
#
i
The Fatdl Inquiry. 165
is it not enough, you niake me wretched by your continual Clamours, and Upbraiding, but that your ill Nature must extend to all, whom you believe I Love? She answer’d him only with a disdainful Look, and haughty Toss, which spoke the Pleashre she took in having it in her power to give him Pain, and went out of the Room with Ansellina.
i
d’elmont’s Family was now become a most Distrasted one, everybody was in Confusion, and it was hard for a dishiterested Pershn, to know howto behave among them: The Count was ready to dye with Vexation, when he refiested on the Adventure at the baron’s with Mel antha, and how hard it wou’d be to clear his Condust in that point with Mell iora : She, on the other Hand, was as much tormented at his not attempting it. The Chevalier, was in the Height of Diss pair, when he found that Ansell in A. continued her Humour, and still avoided letting him know the occasion of it : And Alovysa, tho’ she contented herself for some Hours with relating to her Sister, all the Pastages of her husband’s unkind Usage of Her, yet when that was over, her Curiosity return’d, and she grew so madly Zealous to find out, who her Rival was, that she repented her Behaviour to the Baron,, and sent him the next Day privately, a Billet, wherein she assur’d him, that she had acquainted the Count with nothing that had pass’d between them, and that she defir’d to speak with him. ’tis easy to believe he needed not a second Invitation; he came immediately, and Alovysa reneiwss her Entreaties in the most pressing
manner
I
f
V
1 ©4 Love in Exceff : Or
4 ■ •; ' * ‘
inamier she shas capable of, shut in vain, he told her plainly that if he cou’d not have her Heart, nothing but the full poiteirion of her Person shou’d Extort the Secret from him. ’twould swell this Discourse beyondssvhat I design;; re count her various Starts of Passions, and different Turns of Behaviour, sometimes louder than the Winds she rav’d! Commanded! Threatened! then, still as Aptdl Showers, or Summer Dews ’ she wept, and only whifper’d her Complaints now dissembling Kindness, than declaring lin feign’d Hate; ’till at last, finding it impolfible to prevail by any other means, she promis’d to admit him at Midnight into her Chamber : But as it was only the force of her too passionate af festion for her Husband, which had work’d her to this pitch of raging Jealousy, so she had no sooner made the Assignation, and the Baron had left her (to seek thecdunt to prevent any suspicion of their long Conversation) but all d’elmont’s Charms came fresh into her Mind, ' and made the Thoughts of what she had promis’d Odious and Inshpportable; she open’d her Mouth more than once to call back the B a r o n, and Recant all that she had said;; her ill Genius', br that Devil Curiosity, which too much haunts the Minds of Women, still prevented Her : What will become of me, ( said she to her self)) is it I am about to do? Shall I forgoe my Honour — Quit my viruie, — — Sully my yet unspotted Name with endless Infamy— — yield my Soul to Sin, to Shame, and Horror, only to know what I can ne’er Reshefs ?• If dshlmont
Hates me now, will he not do sh still? -- -- -- What
will this curs’d Discovery bring me but added
Tor
ft
\
, \
 05
Tortures, and fresh weight of Woe : Happy had it been for her if these Considerations cou’d have lasted, but when she had been a minute or two ill this Temper, she wou’d relapse and cry, what must I tamely bear it then? -- -- -- -- -- -- Endure
the Flouts of the malicious Worlcfi and the Contempt of every saucy Girl, who while
she Pitys, Scorns my want of Charms -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Shall I neglested tell my Tale oswrongs, (O, Hell is in that Thought) ’till my Despair shall reach my rival’s Ears, and Crown her Adulterous Joys with double Pleasure- -- -- --
that I am! -- -- -- Fool that I am, to hesitate,
my Misery is already past Addition, my everlasting Peace is Broke I Lost even to hope,
What can I more Endure? -- -- -- -- -- No, since I
must be ruin’d. i’ll have the Satisfastion of dragging with me to Perdition, the Vile, the cursed she that has undone me : TU be reveng’d on her, than dye my self, and free me from Pollution. As she was in this last Thought, she perceiv’d at a good distance from her the
Chevalier Brillian and An s e L L i n a in Dif
/
course • sight of him immediately put a, new Contrivance into her Head, and she compos’d her self as well as she cou’d, and went
to meet them.
- / 1
An sell IN A having been left alone, while her Sister was Entertaining the Baron, had walk’d down into the Garden to divert herself, where the Chevalier, who was on the watch for such an Opportunity, had follow’d her; he cou’d not forbear, tho’ in Terms full
P of
> V
t
io   Off
•*
of Refpest, taxing her with slime little Un' justice for her late Usage of jhim, and Breach of Promise, in not letting him know her Reasons for it : She, who by Nature was extremely averse to though Disguising her Sentiments, fuffer’d him not long to press her for an Bdaircifmert, and with her usual Freedom, told him what she
y. ' w,.
lid done, was purely in Complyance with her Sisterst Request, that she cou’d not help haying the same Opinion of him as ever, but that she had promis’d Alovysa to defer any thoughts of Marrying him, till his Brother should confess his Error : The obliging things she said to him, tho’ Ore perlisted in her Resolution, dilipated great part of his Chagreen, and he was beginning to Excuse d’epmont, and persuade her that her her sifter’s Tempst was the first occasion of their qj iarrcl when Alovysa Interrupted them. Ansell IN A was a little out of Countenance at her sister’s Presence, immagining she wou’d be In fenced at finding her with the chaveker •, but tsat distrefled Lady was full of other Thoughs, and deiiring him to follow her to her Chamber, as, soon as they were fet down, confefs’d to him, how, fir’d with his brother’s Falsehood, fte
had endeavour’d to revenge it upon him, tld file had been his Enemy, but was willing to enter into any Meashres for his Satisfaction, provided he woif d comply with one, whicji she shoii’d propose, which he faithfully pronii,. Sing, after ihe had sworn him to Secrecy, dif
cover’d to him every Circumstance, from te
first Cause of jealousy, to the Assignation ft;
'■ ’ ' had
I
0
%
/
>. V • ' \
  lof
$
had made with the Baron; Now, said she, it is in your Power to preserve both your brother’s Honour, and m}’' Life (vshich I fbon ^ er will resign than my a^irtue) if you stand conceal’d in a little Closet, which I shall convey you to, and the. Moment he has fatisfy'd my Curiosity by telling me her Name tliatp has undone me, rush out, ^ and, be my protedl or. The Chevalier was infinitely surpriz’d at what he heard, for his Brother had not given him the least hint of his Passion, but thought the request Ihe made, too reasonable to he deny’d.
While they were in this Discourse, Melliora, who had been sitting Indulging her Melancholy in that Closet which Alcvysa spoke of, and which did not immediately belong to that Chamber, but was a sort of an Entry or Passage into another, and tir’d with Ressestion was fallen asseep, but on the Noise which Alovysa and the Chevalier made in coining in, wak’d, and heard to her inex preifible Trouble, the Discourse that pafs’d between them : She knew that unknown Rival was herself, and condemn’d the cocnt
L 4 i
of the highest Imprudence, in making a Confidant, as she found he had of the Baron g She saw her Fate, at least that of her Reputation Was now upon the Crisis, that, that very Night she was to be exposstl to all the Fury of an enrag’d Wise, and was so shook ^ with Apprehension, that she was scarce able to go out of the Closet time enough to prep
2. yenf
I
/
f
ft
io   Ocy
vent their Difeovering she was there; what coil’d she do in this Exigence, the thought? of being betray’d, was worse to her than a thousand Deaths, and it was to be wondered at, as she has since consest:, that in that height of Defparation, She had not put an end to the tortures of Refiestion, by laying violent Hands on her own Life: As she was going from the Closet hastily to her own ap partment, the Count and Baron pass’d her, and that Sight heightening the Distraction Ihe was in, fly stepped to the Count, and in a faiiltriiig, scarce intelligible Accent, whifper’d, for heaven’s Sake let me speak with you before Night, make some pretence to come to my Chamber, where i’ll wait for you. And as sf)on as she had spoke these Words darted from him so swift, that he had no opportu:, nity .of replying, if he had not been too much overwhelm’d with Joy at this seeming Change of his Fortune to have done it *, he mifuncler stood part of'w’^at she said,, instead of her desiring to speak with him before Night, he im magin’d, she said at Night. He presently communicated it to the Baron, who Congratulated hijn upon it *, and never was any Night more impatiently loilg’d for, than this Was by them both. They had indeed not man^r Hours of Kxpestation, but Melliora thought them Ages, all her Hopes were, that if she con’d have an Opportunity of difeovering to Count I) ELMONT what ihe had heard between his Wife and Brother, lie might find some means
• to
V
, i
i
 o9
to prevent the baron’s Treacheryr from taking effect. But when Night grew on, and she perceiv’d he came not, and she confider’d < how near she was to inevitable Ruin, what "Words can sufficiently express her Agonies?
So I shall only say, they were too violent to have long kept Company with Life •, Guilt Horour, Fear, Remorse, and Shame at once oppress’d her, and she was very near finking beneath their Weight, when shmebody knock’d fostly at the Door; she made no doubt but it was the Count, and open’d it immediately, and he catching her in his Arms with all the eagerness of transported Love; she was about to clear his Mistake, and let him know it was not an amourous Entertainment she expested froin him; when a shdden cry of Murder, and the noise of Clashing Swords, made him let go his Hold, and draw his own, and run along the Gallery to find out the occasion, where being in the Dark, and only dirested by the Noise he heard in his wife’s Chamber, shmething met the point, and a great shriek following it, he cry’d for Lights, but none coming immediately; he stepping farther stumbled at the Body which had fallen, he then redoubled his Outcrys, and Melliora frighted as she was, brought one from her Chamber, and at the same Instant that they difco ver’d it was Alovysa, who coming to alarm the Family, had by Accident run on her Hus, band’s Sword, they faw the Chevalier pursuing the Baron, who mortally Wounded, dropped down *
* ^
\
no  y
C
hy alovysast fide, what a dreadful View was this? The Count, ^ielliora, and the Servants, who hy this time were most ol them rowz’d, feem’d without Sense or Motion only the Chevalier had Spirit enough to speak, or think, so stupify’d was every one with what they saw. But he ordering the Servants to take up the Bodies, sent one oc stm immediately for a Surgeon, but they were both of them past his Art to Cure Alovy SA spoke no more, and the Baron liv’d but two .Days, in which time the
whole Account, as it was gather’d from the
Mouths of those chiefiv concern’d, was Set down, and the Tragical part of it being laid before the KING, there appear’d So much of Justice in the baron’s Death, and Accident in Alovy s a’s, that the Count and Chevalier found it no difficult matter to obtain their Pardon. The Chevalier was soon after Married to his Beloved Ansell inaj but Mell IORA look’d on herself as tk most guilty Person upon Earth, as being
the primary Cause of all the Misfortunes that had happen’d, and retir’d immediately to a Monastery, from whence, not all the entreaties of her Friends, nor the implora tions o: the Amorous d’e L m o n t cou’cl
bring her, ffie was now resolv’d to punilli, by a voluntary Banishment from all she ever did, ' or coiled Love; the Guilt of Indulging that Passion, while it was a Crime. He, not able to Live without her, at least in the
same
\
* s
. f
e
'i
ft ' • •
'f '
'  III
same Climate, committed the Care of Hs Estate to his Brother, and went to Travel without an Inclination ever to return: Mela n t h a who was not of a Humour to take anything to Heart, was Married in a short Time, and had the good Fortune not to he suspected by her Husband, though she
brought him a Child in Seven Months after her Wedding.
V
PINTS.
-- *
* /
I
r
Bill i ^
■

0
\
*
, '
(
/
I
A
)
\
i
/
I
/
I
\
/
I
1
%
I
1
\
V
i
>
I
\
I
I •
/
I

I • >
/
O R, T H E
t
Fatal Enauiry.
The Third and Last Part.
t «,
. U 1 IT f — —, —. -- -- -1 —
/
I '
i
SH O’ C G u N T d’e L m b n t never
had any great tenderness for A L o v Y s A, and her extravagance of Rage and Jealousy, joyn’d to his Pallibn for Mell iora had every Day abated it, yet the manner of her Death was too great a shock to the fweetness of his disposition to be easily worn off; he cou’d not remember her Unealihess, without refiesting that it sprung only from her too violent Astestion for him; and tho’ there was Ho posti bility of living happily With her, when he con lider’d that she dy’d, not only for him, but by his Hand, his Coinpalfion for the Cause, and Horror for the unwish’d, as well as undestgn’d Event, drew Lamentations from him, more
B sincere
•%
/ ^
'Love In Excess r Or
• *

sincere, perhaps, then slime of thosh Hiishanclg,; who call themshlves very Loviiiig ones, woffd make.
To alleviate the troubles of his Mind, he had endeavour’d all he cou’d, to persuade Mel hora to continue in his house;; that afflicted Lady was not to be prevail’d upon, she look’d on her self, as, in a manner, acces fary to A L o V y s a’s Death, and thought the leash she ow’d to her Reputation was to see the Count no more, and tho’ in the forming this \ Resolution, she felt Torments unconceivable, \ yet the strength of her Virtue enabled her to, keep it, and she return’d to the Monastery, where she had been Educated, carrying with her nothing of that Peace of Miild with which she left it.
Not many Days pafs’d between her Departure, and the C o u n t’s; he. took his way towards shay, by the perfwalions of his Brother, who, since he found him bent to Travel, hop’d that Garden of the World might produce something to divert his Sorrows *, he took but two Servants with him, and those rather for con veniency than State: Ambition, once his darling Passion, was now wholly extinguish’d in him by thesh Misfortunes, and he no longer thought of making a Figure in the World; but his Love nothing cou’d abate, and ’ds to be believ’d that the violence of that wou’d have driven him to the ush of slime fatal Remedy, if the Chevalier Brillian, to whom he left the Care of Mell IORA k and her brother’s Fortune as well
as
i
9
  ^
as his own, had not, tho’ with much difficulty, obtain’d a Promise frosti her of Gonverling with him by Letter!
T H I s was all he had to keep Hope alive, and indeed it was no inconsiderable Confblation, for she that allows a Correspondence of that Kind with a Man that has any Interest in her Heart, can never persuade herself, while she does sh, to make him become indifferent to her. When we give our selves the liberty of even talking of the Person we have once lov’d, and find the least pleasure in that Discourse, stis ridiculous to imagine We are free from that Passion, without which, the mention of it woiisd be but insipid to our Ears, and the remembrance to burr Minds, tho’ our Words are never so Cold, they are the effests of a secret Fire, which burn S not with less Strength for not being Dilated The Count had too much Experience of all the Walks and Turns of Passion to be ignorant of this, if Melliora had endeavour’d to dilguish her Sentiments, but she went not sh far, she thought it a sufficient vindication of her Virtue to withhold the rewarding of his Love, without feigning a Coldness to which she was a stranger, and he had the sstisfastioii to observe a tenderness in her Style, which ass fur’d him that her Heart was unalterably his, and very much strength’d his Hopes that one day her Person might be sh too, when time had a little effac’d the memory of those Circumstances, which had obliged her to put this constraint on her Inclinations!
B H e
r
 : Off
H E wrote to her from every Poft town, and, waited till he receiv’d her Answer, by this means his Journey was extremely tedious, lot no Adventures of any moment, falling in his tieay still he came to Rome, I shall not trouble my Readers with a recital of Particulars which cou’d be no way Entertaining.
But, how strangely do they deceive themselves, who fancy that they are Lovers, yet on every little Turn of Fortune, or Change of Circumstance, are agitated, with any Vehemence, by Cares of a far disterent Nature? Lovi is too jealous, too arbitrary a Monarch to suffer any other Pastion to equalise himself in that Heart where he has fix’d his Throne. When once enter’d, he becoihes the whole Business of our Lives, we Think — we Dream of nothing elfe, nor have a Wstsh not infpirsh by him: Those who have the Power to apply themselves so seriously to any other Consideration as to forget him, tho’ but for a Moment, are but Lovers in Conceit, and have entertain’d Desire but as an agreeable A miifement, which when attended with any li cnnvenience, they may without much difficulty fiiake off. Such a shrt of Passion may be properly enough call’d Liking, but falls widely short of Love. Love, is what we can neither resist, expel, nor even alleviate, if we should never so vigoroussy attempt it; and tho’ some have boasted, Thus jar will I yield and no farther, they have been convinc’d of the vanity of forming fucli Rcshlutions by the impostibility of keeping them. Liking is a flashy Flame, which is to be kept alive only by ease and delight,

/
  ty
light. Love, needs not this fuel to maintain
its Fire, it Survives in Absence, and Disappointments,
it endures, unchillsh, the wintery Blasts of cold Indifference and Neglest, and continues its Blaze, even in a storm of Hatred and Ingratitude, and Reashn, Pride, or a just Sensibility of conshious Worth, in vain Oppose it. Diking, plays gaily round, feeds on the Sweets in gross, but is wholly inshnfible of the Thorns which guard the nicer, and more refin’d Delicacies of Desire, and can consequently give neither Pain, nor Pleasure in any Superlative degree. Love creates intolerable Torments! unspeakable Joys! raishs us to the highest Heaven of Happiness, or finks us to the lowest Hell of Misery.
Count Dsh L m o n t experienc’d the Truth of this Assertion; for neither his just concern for the manner of A L o V y s Ast Death cou’d curb the Exuberance of his Joy, when he confider’d himself belov’d by Mell iora; nor any Diversion, of which Rome afforded great Variety, be able to make him support being absent from her with Moderation. There are I believe, but few modern Lovers, how Passionate and Constant shever they pretend to be, who wou’d not in the C o u n t’s Circumstances have
ft
found some matter of Consolation; but he feem’d wholly dead to Gaiety. lai vain, all the Roman Nobility courted his Acquaintance •, in yain the Ladies made use of their utmost Artifice to engage him : He prefer’d a shlitary Walk, a lonely Shade, or the Bank of slime purling Stream, where he undisturb’d might contemplate on his belov’d Melliora, to all the noisy Plea^
B 3, fares
%
■£   : Ocy
\
sures of the Court, or the endearinents of the inviting Fair. In fine, he shun’d as much as possible all Conversation with the Men, or Correspondence with the Women; returning all their Billet Deux, of which scarce a Day past, without his receiving slime, unanswer’d.
ft
^ •
H I s manner of Behaviour in a little time deliver’d him from the Periecutions of the discreet, •, haying receiv’d one Letter which lie had us’d as he had done the rest, it was immediately Seconded by another both which contain’d as follows :
• - .r
Letter I.
: *?.
To the never Enough admir’d
Count D’ELMONT.
* y
I N your Country, where Women are allow’d tk prevuedge of being seen and Addrefdd to, it wou 'd he a Crinie mtpardonable to Modefiy, to mah ihe first Advances. Bud here, where rigid Rules an Bar f, as well to Reason, as to Nature : itwoiu he as great a one, to feign an Insensibility of ygur Alerit. I say, feign, for I look on it, as an iw poffibility really to Behold you with Indiffierency: But, if I coii d believe that any of my Sex wen in good earnest so dull, I must confess, I fimi Envy that happy Stupidity, which wou’d secure ms from the Sains fitch a Fajfion as you create must h
ftici g urdefs, from the Millions whom your Charm
'^ ■ ' hau
I •
A
!

have reach’dyou have yet a corner of your Heart Unprepoffefdd; aitd an Inclination rpilung to receive the hnprefjion of.
Your most Pashoiiate and Tender,
(but still she receives a favourable Answer) Your unknown Adorer.
^^^ ^
L E T T E R II
I
To the Ungrateful d’e L M O N T
unworthy of the happi7tefs defgn'd you! is it
thus. “That you return the Condescension of ' a Lady? How fahulos is Report, which Jpeaks those of your Country, warm and fiill of amorous Dejires? — Thou, sure, art colder than the bleak northern Islanders— — fupid Wretch! insensible of e very Fafiion which give Lufi re to the Soul, and differ Man, from Brute! — Without Gratitude — Without Love -- Without Desire- -- even to Curiosity
! — How I copd difpift Thee for this narrowness of Mhid, were there not something in thy Eyes and Mein which affure me, that this negltgent Behaviour is but affected and that there are within thy breajl, some Seeds of hidden Fire, which want hut the Influence of Charms, jnore potent perhaps, then you have yet beheld, to kindle into Blaze.
Make hafi then to be enliven’d, for I flatter my self tis in my Sower to work this wonder, and long to iytfpire so Lovely a Form with Sejitiments only worthy of it, — The Bearer of this, is a Ferfon who I
B 4 dare
0
1
  : Or
dare Confide in — Delay not to come with him, for when once you are Taught what ’tis to Love, you’ll not he Ignorant that doubtful Expebiation is the worfi of Racks, and from your own Experience. Fity what I feel, thus chill’d with Doubt, yet burning with Desire,
Yours, Irnpatiently.
»
The Count was pretty much furpriz’d at the odd Turn of this Billet; but being willing to put an End to the Ladies Trouble, as well as his own; sat down, and without giving himself much Time to Think, writ theft Lilies in Answer to Hers.
: )& t
To the'fair INCOGNITA.
t - ....
\
MA D A M,
IF you have no other design in Writing to we, than your Diversion, 7nethinks my Mourning Habit, to which my Countenance and Behaviour are no way Dnconformahle, might infor?n you, I am little dnfp os’ d for Raillery. If in Earriejl you can find anything in me which pleases you, I mufi confess my self entirely unworthy of the Honour, not mily by my personal Detnerits, but by the Resolution I have made of co7tverfing with none of your Sex ' irhile I cojtthme in Italy. /fimfd be sorry however
to incurr the Aspersion of an umnannerly con temner of Favours, which tho’ I do not dejire, I pretend not to deserve. I therefore beg you will believe that I return this, as I did your Former, only to let you see, that since I decline making any
use
t
/
4
The Fatal Inquiry p
life of your Condefcentiom to my Advantage I am mt ungenerous otough to do foto your Prejudice, and to all Ladies deserving the regard of a difn t ere fed well wifier Shall be an,
t
Humble Servant, D’ Elmont.
I
The Count order’d one of his Servants to deliver this Letter to the Person who brought the other; but he return’d immediately with it in his Hand, and told his Lordship that he cou’d not prevail on the Fellow to take it that he Said he had business with the Count, and must: needs see him, and was sh Importunate, that he feem’d rather to Demand than Entreat a Grant of his Request. D’ e L m o n t was astonish’d, as well he might, but commanded he should be admitted.
Nothing cou’d be more Comical than the appearance of this Fellow, he feem’d to be about threescore Years of Age, but Time had not been the greatest Enemy to his Face, for the Number of Scars, was far exceeding that of wrin cles, he was Tall above the common Stature, but so lean, that, till he spoke, he might have been taken for one of those Wretches who have pafs’d the Hands of the Anatomists, nor wou’d his Walk have distpated that Opinion, for all his Motions, as he enter’d the Chamber, had more of the Air of Clockwork, than of Nature; his Dress was not less particular, he had on a Suit of Clothes, which might perhaps have been good in the Days of his Great grand father, but the Pershn who they fitted must have been five
times
i
t ^ •
J O Love In Excess : Of.,
• K
times larger about the Body than him who wore them, a large broad buff Belt however remedied that Inconvenience, and girt them close about his Waste, in which hung a Fauchion, two Daggers, and a Sword of a more than ordinary Extent; the rest of his Equipage was a Cloalc, which buttoning round his Neck fell not so low as his Hips, a Hat, which in rainy weather kept his Shoulders dry much betteir than an hiim Umberrello, one Olove, and a formidable pair of Whiskers. As soon as he saw the Count,
i, ■ * J
my Lord, said he,; with a very impudent Air, 3hy jqrders were .to bring your fels; not a Letter frorn you, nor do I use to be employ’d in Affairs of this Nature, but to serve one of the Richest, and most; Beautiful Ladys in Roms who J affure you, it,; will be C angeroiis to disoblige. d’e L m o m t ey’d him intentively all the time he spoke, and cou’d scarce, notwitli striding his Chagreen, forbear Laughing at the Figure he made, and the manner of his Salutation. I know not, answer’d he. Ironically, what Employments you have been us’d to, but certainly you appear to me, one of the mofl: unfit Persons in the Wshrld for what you now undertake, and if the Contents of the Paper you brought me had not inform’d me of youi Abilities this Way, I should never have fufpest' ed you for one of cupids Agents: You an merry my Lord, reply’d the other, but I muf tell you I am a Man of Family and Honour and shall not put up an Affront; but, continu ed he, shaking the few Hairs which frequen Skirmishes had left upon his Head, I shall defer my own Satisfastion still I have procur’d tlr
Lady,
I
4
The Fatal Inquiry i j
Ladies; therefore, if your Lordship will prepare to follow, I shall walk before, at a perceivable Distance, and without St. Peters Kev ' Open the Gate of Heaven. I should be apt (laid the C o u N T, not able to keep his Countenance at these Words) rather to take it for the other Place; but be it as it will, I have not the least Inclination to make the Experiment, therefore, you may walk as soon as you please without ex pesting me to accompany you. Then you absolutely refuse to go (cry’d the Fellow, dapping his Hand on his Forehead, and staring at him, as if he meant to stare him into Complyance!) Yes (answer’d the C o u n t laughing more and more)
I shall neither go, nor'^waste any farther time '' or Words with you, so wou’d advise you not. to be saucy, or tarry till my Anger gets the hotter of my ^imirth, but take the Letter and be gone, and trouble me ho more. The other, at thest Words laid his Hand on his Sword, and was about to make some very impudent Reply, when d’e L m o n t, growing weary of his Impertinence, made a Sign to his Servants, that they should turn him out, which he perceiving, took up the Letter without being bid a second time, and muttering some unintelligible Cursts between his Teeth, march’d out, in the same affected Strutt, with which he enter’d.
This Adventure, tho’ surprising enough to a Person st entirely unacquainted with the Character and Behaviour of thest bravo’s as d’e L m C n t was, gave > him but very little matter of Reflestion, and it being the time for
Even
< J
h
» ’ *
w « so - *.. - '
^ 0
/
12 Love in Exceff: Or
/
Service at St. peter’s, he went, according to his Custom to hear vefpeps there.
Nothing is more Common than for the; Nobility, and Gentry of Rome to divert themselves with Walking, and Talking to one another in the Collonade after Mass, and the Count, tho’ averse to all other public Assemblies, wou’d sometimes spend an Hour or two there.
I
f
As he was walking there this Evening, a Lacly of a very gallant Mein pafs’d swiftly by him, and sturting out her Handkerchief with a careless Air, as it were by Chance, drop’d an ag mus Dei fet round with Diamonds at his Feet, he had too much Complaisance to neglect endeavouring to overtake the Lady, and prevent the Pain he imagin’d she wou’d be in, when Ihe dhou’d miss so rich a Jewel: But she, wlio knew well enough what she had done, left the Walk where the Company were, and cross’d over to the Fountain, which being more retir’d was the most proper for her Dessgn : She stood looking on the Water, in a thoughtful Posture, when the Count came up to her, and bowing, with ^ an Air peculiar to himself, and which all his
Chagreen could not deprive of an iiressstable Power of attrastion, Presented the ag7m Dei to her. I think my self, Madam, said he, highly indebted to Fortune, for making me the means of your recovering a Jewel, the Loss of which wou’d certainly have given you some clffquiet: Oh Heavens! cry’d She, receiving it with an affested Air of Surprise, could a Trifle like this which I knew not that I had let fall, nor perhaps
/
 5
haps fhou’d have thought on more, coti’d thss, and belonging to a Woman too, meet the Regard of him, who prides in hfs Insensibility?' Him! who has no Eyes for Beauty, nor no Heart for Love! As she spoke these Words she contriv’d to let her Vail fall back as if by Accident, and difcover’d a Face, Beautiful even to perfe6tion I Eyes black and sparkling, a Mouth form’d to Invite, a Skin dazlingly white, thro’ which a moss: delightful Bloom diffus’d a cheerful Warmth, and glow’d in amorous Blushes 011 her Cheeks. The Count could not forbear gazing on her with Admiration, and perhaps, was, for a Moment, pretty near receeding from that Insensibility she had reproach’d him with • '
but the Image of Mell ior a, yet unenjoy’d, all ravishingly Kind and Tender, rose presently in his Soul, fill’d all his Faculties, and left no Passage free for rival Charms. Madam, Paid he after a little Pause, the Italian Ladies take care to screen their too dazzling Lustre behind a Cloud, and, if I durst take that Liberty, have certainly reashn to Tax your Accusation of Injustice; he, on whom the Sun has never vouchsafed to shine, ought not to be condemn’d for not acknowledging its brightness; yours is the first Female Face I have beheld, ssnce my Arrival here, and it wou’d have been as ridiculous to hav’e feign’d my self susceptible of Charms which I had never seen, as it wou’d be Stupidity, not to confess those I now do, worthy Adoration. Well, refum’d she smiling, if not the lover’s, I find, you kiviw to ast the courtieks Part; but continued she, looking languishingly on Iiim, all you can say, will scarce make me
^ believe
»
I
itj.   L Ovy
believe, that there requires not a much brighter Sun than mine, to Thaw a certain Frozeii Resolution, you pretend to have made. There needed no more to confirm the Count in the Opinion he had before conceiv’d, that this was the Lady from whom she had receiv’d the two Letters that dayj and thought he had now the fair eft Opportunity in the World to put an End to her pairion, by assuring her how impossible it was for him ever to return it, and was forming an Answer to that purpose;; a pretty deal of Company coming toward thein^ she drew her Vail over her Face, and turning hastily from him, mingled with slime Ladies, who seem’d to be of her Acquaintance.
I
The Count knew by experience, the unutterable Perturbations of Suspense, and what agonising Tortures rend an amorous Soul, divided betwixt Hope and Fear: Despair itself is not so Cruel as Uncertainty, and in all Ills, especially in those of Love, it is less Misery to Know, than Dread the worst:. The Remembrance of what he had shster’d thus agitated, in the Beginning of his pasfion for Melliora, made him extremely pity the unknown Lady, and regret her sudden Departure; because it had prevented him from letting her into sh much of his Circumstances, as he believ’d were necessary to induce her to recall her Heart. But when he confider’d how much he had struggled, and how V far he had been from being able to repel Desire, he began to wonder that it cou’d ever enter into his Thoughts that there was even a possibility shr Ifomaji, so much stronger in her
Fancy,
s
\
/
  i
Fancy, and weaker in her Judgement, to fup press the Influence of that powerful Passion;; which, no Laws, no Rules, no Force of Reason, or Philoshphy, are sufficient Guards.
These Reflections gave no small Addition to his Melancholy; Ame na’s Retirement from the World •, A L o V y s a’s Jealousy and Death;
M E L L I o R a’s Peace of Mind and Reputation, and the Despair of several, whom he was sensible, the Love of shim, had rendered miserable, came fresh into his Memory, and he look’d on hirnfelf as moss: unhappy, in being the Occasion of making others So.
4
__ 9.
T h e Night which succeeded this Day of Adventures, chancing to be abroad pretty late •, as he was passing thro’ a Street, he heard a Clashing of Swords, and, going nearer to the place where the Noise was, he perceiv’d by some Lights which glimmered from a distant Door, a Gentleman defending himself with much Bravery against Three, who feem’d eager for his Death. D’E L m o N t was mov’d to the highest Indignation at the Sight of such Baseness; and Drawing his Sword, flew furiously on the Assassins, just as one of them was about to run his Sword into the Breast of the Gentleman; who, by the breaking of his own Blade, was left unarm’d. Turn Villain, cry’d D’ E L M o N t, or while you are abing that Inhumanity, receive the jufi Reward of it from me. The Russian fac’d about immeffiately, aiid made a Pafs at him, while one of his Comrades did the same on the other fide and the third was going to execute
on
i
I
/
ft *
1  r : Ofy
on the Gentleman, what his fellows Surprise had made him leave undone : But he had now gain’c! Time to pull a Pistol out of his Pocket, with which she shot him in a Moment dead; and snatching his Sword from him as he fell, ran to assist the Cdir NT, who ’tis likely wostd have stood in need bf it, being engag’d witfi two, and those the most Defparate shrt of bravo’s, Villains that make a Trade of Death. But the Noise of the Pistol made then! apprehensive there was a farther Rescue, and put ’erni to flight. The Gentleman feem’d agitated with a more! than ordinary Fury and instead of staying to Thank the Count, or inquire how he had elcap’d, ran in purshit of those who had aflaiilted him, sh fwistly, that it was in vain for the Count, not being well acquainted with ste Turnings of the Streets, to attempt to follow him, if he had a Mind to it : Bstt feeing there was a Man kill’d, and not knowing either the Pershns who sought, or the Occasion of their Quarrel, he rightly judg’d, that being a Stranger in the place, his Word wou’d not be very readily taken in his own Vindication; therefore thought his wishst Course wou’d be to mate offi with what Speed he cou’d, to his Lodging. While he was Considering, he saw something on the Ground which glitter’d extremely and taking it up, found that it was x>art of tte Sword which the aflaiilted Gentleman had the Misfortune to have broke : The Hilt was of a fine Piece of Agat, fet round on the Top wist Diamonds, which made him believe the Person whom he had preferv’d, was of considerable Quality, as well as Bravery.
The Fatal Inquiry i 7
H E had not gone inany Paces from the place where the Skirmish happened, before a Cry of Murder met his Ears, and a great Concourse of People his Eyes: He had receiv’d two or three slight Wounds, which, tho’ not much more than skin deep, had made his Linen bloody, and he knew wbu’d be sufficient to make him be apprehended, if he Were seen, which it was very difficult to avoid : He was in a narrow Street which had no Turning, and the Crowd Was very near himwhen locking round him 'with a good deal of Vexation in his Thoiights, he difcern’d a Wall, which in Olie jiart of it seem’d pretty low : He presently refolv’d to climb it, and trust to Fortune for what might befall him on the other fide, rather than stay to be expos’d to the Insults of the Outrageous Mob; who, ignorant of his (Quality, and looking no farther than the Outside of Things", wou’d doubtless have confider’d him, no otherwise, than a Midnight Rioter,
V
When he was got over the Wall, he found, himself in a very fine Garden, adorn’d with Fountains, Statues, Groves, and every Ornament, that Art, or Nature, cou’d prodiice for the Delight of the Owner: At the upper End there was a summer house, into wdiich he went, ' designing to stay there ’till the Search Was over.
B it T He had not been stimfy Moments in his Concealment before he faw a Door open from the House, and two Women come out; they ■
walk’d directly up to the place where he was i' '
C he
^ \\
•«»
s
I
ft
ib Love in tlxcejs : Vff ^
%
he made no doubt but that they defign’d to enter, and retir’d into the farthesl: Corner of it; As they came pretty near, he found they were earnest in Discourse, but cou’d understand nothing of what they said, still she, who feem’d to be the Chief, raising her Voice a little higher than she had done : Talk no more, Brione, said fie, if e’re thy Eyes are Blessed to see this Charmer of my Soul, thou wilst cease to wonder at my paltion; great as it is, ’tis wanting of his Merit. — Oh I He is more than raptur’d Poets feign, or Fancy can invent I Suppose Him so, (cry d the other,) yet still he wants that Charm which fhou’d Endear the others to you — Softness — Heavens! to Return your Letters! to in fdlt your Mestenger 1 to flight shch Favours as any Man of Soul wou’d dye to obtain! Methinks such’ Usage shou’d make him odious to imu, — even I shou’d shorn so spiritless a Wretch Peace, thou Prophaner, said the Lady in an a^grj
such Blasphemy deserves a Stab -- -- -- -- But
thou hast never heard his Voice, nor seen Lis Eyes, and I forgive Thee. Have you then fpob to him, interrupted the Confdeitt? Yes, ayifwedi the Lady, and by that Conversation, am more undone than ever ^ it was to tell thee this Adventure, I came tonight into this agreeable Solitude. With these Words they came into the summer housh, and the Lady stating her self on a Bench; Thou know’st, refwrid fie, I went this Evening to Saint Peters, there I Saw the glorious Man; saw him in all his Charms; and while I bow’d my Knee, in show to Heaveri, my Soul was prostrate only to him. When the (Seremony was over, perceiving he stay’d in the
coeonad'e,
• >
* \
/
/
\
t
f
»
The Fatal Enquicp 19
$
Collonade, I had no power to leave it, hut stood, regardless who ohserv’d me, gazing on him with Transports, which only those who Love like me, can guess 1 — - God! with what an Air he walk’d! What new Attractions dwelled in etrery Motion —
And when he return’d the Salutes of any that pafs’d hy him, how graceful was his Bow 1 How
softly hss Mein, and yet, how affiible! -- A
sort of an inexprelfible awful Grandeur, blended with tender Languistiments, strikes the a maz’d Beholder at bnce with Fear and Joy! — Something beyond Humanity shines round him!
Such Looks descending Angels wear, when fenton Heavenly Embasties to some Favourite Mortal! Such iis their Form I Such Radient Beams they dart; and with such Smiles they temper
their Divinity with Softness 1 oh! with what
ain did I restrain my self from flying to him! from rushing into his Arms! from hanging on his Neck, and wilding uttering all the furious
Wishes of my burning Soul I -- -- I trembled —
panted — rag’d with inward Agonies : Nor was all the Reason I cou’d muster up, sufficient to bear me from his Sight, without having first spoke to him. To that End I ventur’d to pass by him, and drop’d an Agnus Dei at his Feet, believing that wou’d give him an Occasion of following me, which he did immediately, and returning it to me, difcover’d a new Hoard of
unimagin’d Charms -- -- All my fond Soul con
fess’d before of his Perfections were mean, tof what I now beheld I had’st thou but seen how” be approach’d me — with what an awful reve tence — with what a soft beseeching, yet commanding Air, he kiss’d the happy Istifie, as he
C 2, gave '
/
s
ft
ao   Off
^ * gave it me, ' thou would’si: have envy’d it as well
as I 1 At last he Spoke, and with an Accent So ' Divine, that if the Sweetest: Music were coin par’d to the more Celestial Harmony of his Voice, it wou’d only Serve to prove how vastly - Nature dost excel all Art. But, Madam, crjd the other, I am impatient to know the End of this Affair; for I presume you difcover’d to him both what, and who you were? My Face only, reply’d the Lady, for este I had opportunity to do more, that "malicious Trifler, Violetta, perhaps envious of my Happiness, came toward iis wfith a Crowd of Impertinents at her Heels. Curse on the Interruption, and Broke off oiir Conversation *5 just at that Blessed, hut Irrecoverable Moment, when I perceiv’d in my Charming conqueror’s Eyes, a growing Tenderness, sufficient to encourage me to reveal my own. Yes, brione, those lovely Eyes, while fix’d on mine, shone, with a Lustre, uncommon, even to
themselves- -- -- -- livelier Warmth o’refpread his
Cheeks — Pleasure sat smiling on his Lips — -, those Lips, my Girl, which even when they are filent, speak, •, when unclos’d, and the sweet Gales of balmy Breath blow on yoti, he Idlls you ill a Sigh each hurry’d Sense is ravish’d, and your Soul glows with Wonder and Delight. Oh : to be forc’d to leave him in this Crisis, Tvhen iiew defire began to dawn; when Love in its most lively Symptoms was apparent, and feem’d to promise ail my Wishes Covet, what Separation ever was fb cruel? Compose your self, dear Madani, said Brione, if he be really in Love; as who so senseless as not to be So, that once has seen jrour Cliaims? Ifiat
\ ' ' Wist
/
/
\
t
 1
Will teach him fyeedily to find out an opportunity as favourable as that which you have lately miss’d; or if he ihou’d want Contrivance to procure his own Happiness, stisshut your writing.
to appoint a Meeting. He must- -- shall be
mine! cry’d the Lady in a Rapture, My Love, fierce as it was before, from Hope receives Addition to its Fury ^ I rave — - I burn -- I am
mad with wild Desires— — dye, Brione, if I not pcflels him. In speaking these Words, she threw her self down on a Carpet which Was spread upon the Floor; and after sighing two or three times, continued to discover the Violence of her impatient Passion in this manner: Oh that this Night, said she, were past, — the Blissful Expeclatioii of to morrows Joys, and the distrasting Doubts of Disappointment, swell my unequal beating Heart by Turns, and rack
me with Viciifitudes of Pain -- I cannot live
and bear it -- Soon as the Morning breaks. 111
know my Doom — i’ll send to him -- -- -- But stis
an Age till then -- Oh that I cou’d sseep — -
Sleep might perhaps anticipate the Blessing, and
bring him in Idea to my Arms -- -- But ’tis in
vain to hope one moment’s cool Serenity in
Love like mine' -- My anxious Thoughts hurry
my Senses in Eternal Watchings I -- -- -- - Oh
D’elmcnt! D’elmont! Tranquill, Cold, and Calm D’elmont I Little dost thou guess the Tempest thou hast rais’d within my Soul, nor
know'st to pity these consuming Fires!
>
The Count list’ned to all this Discourse with a World of Uneassness and Impatience; and tho’ at first he fancy’d he remember’d the
C 5 Voice,
\
. \
\
7   : Or
\
and had Reason enough from the beginning, especially when the Agnus Dei was ' mention’d, to believe it cou’d be no other than himself, who the Lady had' so palfionately de
fcrib’d; yet he had not Confidence to appear hil she had nam’d him; but then, no Consideration was of force to make him neglest this opportunity of undeceiving her his good Sense, as well as good Nature, kept him from that Vanity, too many of his Sex imitate the weaker in, of being pleas’d that it was in his Power to create Pains, which it was not in his Power, so devoted as he was, to Ease.
I
I
He stepped from his Retirement as softly as he cou’d, because he was loath to alarm them with ny inoife, still they shou’d discover who it was | that made it, which they might easily do, in his | advancing toward them never so little, that part, pf the Bower being much lighter than that where he had Stood; but with his over caution in Aiding his Feet along, to prevent being heard, one of them tangled in the Corner of the Carpet, which happened not to lie very smooth, and yiot being sensible presently what it was that embarrass’d him : He fell with part of his Body cross the Lady, and his Head in brione’s Lap, who was sitting on the Ground by her. The Manner of his Fall was lucky enough, for it hinder’d either of them from rising, and running to alarm the Family, as certainly in fiich a fright they wou’d have done, if his Weight had not detain’d them y they both gave a great Shriek, but the House being at a good distance, they cou’d upt easily be heard; and he immediately
 3
diately recovering himself, beg’d Pardon for the Terror he had occafion’d them; and addressing to the Lady, who at first was dying with her
Fears, and now with Consternation : D’elmont Madam, said he, cou’d not have had the Assurance to appear before you, after hearing those undeferv’d Praises your Excess of Goodness has been pleas’d to bestow upon him, but that his Soul wou’d have reproach’d him of the highest Ingratitude, in permitting you to continue longer in an Error, which may involve you in the greatest of Misfortunes at least
I am -- -- -- As he was speaking, three or four
Servants with Lights came running from the House;; the Lady, tho’ in more Confusion ^
can be well expressed, had yet Presence of Mind enough to bid the Count retire to the place wshere he had stood before, while she and Brione went out of the siimmer house to learn the Cause of this Interruption : Madam, cry’d one of the Servants, as soon as he saw her, the ‘
Officers of Justice are within *, who being rais’d by an Alarm of Murder, come to beg your Ladyships Permission to search your Garden, being, as they say, inform’d that the Offender made his Escape over this Wall. ’tis very improbable, reply’d the Lady, for I have been here a considerable Time, and have neither heard the least Noise, nor feeii anybody: However they may search, and satisfy themselves— — you, and tell them so. Then turning to the Count, when she had difmiss’d her Servants;
My Lord, said she Trembling, I know not what strange Adventure brought you here tonight, or whether you are the Person for whorn the
C 4 Search
\
2 4,   9 : Off
X '
Search is made; but am sensible, if you are found here, it will be equally injurious to your Safety, and my Reputation; I have a Back door, thro’which you may pass in Security: But, if jmu have Honour, continu’d fire Sighing, Gratitude, or good Nature, you will let me see you tomorrow Night. Madam, reply’d he, affure your self that there are not many things I more earneftfy desire than an opportunity to convince you, how sensibly I am touch’d with your Favours, and how much I regret niy want of Power to -- -- -- you, interrupted She, can want nothing
but the IT ill' to inake me the happiest of my Sex — — But this is no Time for you to Give, or me to Receive any Proofs of that Return which I expest — Once more I conjure you to be here tomorrow Night at Twelve, where the Faithful Brione stiall attend to admit yon. farewell be punstual and sincere— — all I, ask — When I am not, answer’d he, may all my Hopes forsake me. By this time they were come to the Door, which Brione opening softly, let him out, and shut it again immediately,
i
I
The Count took care to Remark the place that he might know it again, resolving nothssg more than to make good his Promise at the appointed Hour, but cou’d not help being extremely troubled, when he constder’d how unwelcome his Sincerity wou’d be, and the Confusion he must give the Lady, when instead of those Raptures the Violence of her mistaking Passion made her hope she shou’d meet with only cold Civility, and the killing History of the pre engage inent of his Heart, In these and the like me
^. V : •.. ft. ' 1 ' T 1
lanchoiy
'k
\
'\
✓
%
 ^
lancholy Reflections he spent the Night • and when Morning came, receiv’d the feverefi: Augmentation of them, which Fate cou d load him with.
i T was scarce full Day when a Servant came into his Chamber to acquaint him, that a young Gentleman, a Stranger, desir’d to be admitted, and feem’d so impatient till he was : That, said the Fellow, not knowing of what Consequence his Business may be, I thought it better to Riff que your Lordihipss Displeasure for this early Disturbance, than by dismilfing him, fill you with an unfatisfy’d Curiosity. The Count was far from being Angry, and commanded that the Gentleman should be brought up, which Order being immediately obey’d, and the Servant with drawn out of Respect: : his Head out of the Bed, he was furpriz’d with the Appearance of one of the most beautiful he had ever beheld, and in whose Face, he imagin’d he trac’d some Features not Unknown to him. Pardon, me Sir, said he, throwing the Curtains more back than they were before, that I receive the Honour you do me, in this manner — But being Ignorant of your ‘name, Quality, the Reason of your desire to see me, or anything but your Impatience to do sh, in Gratifying that, I fear, I have injur’d the respect,, I believe, is Due; and which, I am sure, my Heart is inclinable to pay to you. Visits, like mine, reply’d the Stranger, require but little Ceremony, and I shall easily remit that Refpest you talk of, while I am Unknown to you, provided you will give me
V * •* • • • ' ^ I »

• /
\
\
S
ft •
26 Lave in Excess : Off
N
I
one Mark of itsthat I shall ask of you, when you do. There are very few, reply’d D’E L m o n t, ■ that I cou’d refuse to one, whose Afpett prqmi fes to deserve sh many. First: then, cry’d the other pretty warmly, I demand a Sister of you, and not only her, but a Reparation of her Honour, which can be done no otherwish than by your Blood. It is impoisible to represent the C o TJ N t’s astoniihment at thesh Words, but conscious of his Innocence in any such Affair:
I shou’d be shrry sigjtior, said he cooly, that Precipitation should hurry you to do any Action, you wou’d afterwards Repent; you must: certainly be mistaken in the Pershn to vrhom you are Talking — Yet, if I were Rash like you, what fatal Consequences might ensue, *, there is something in your Countenance which engages me to wim a more friendly Interview than what you speak of : Therefore wou’d persuade' ' to consider calmly, and you will soon find, and acknowledge your Mistake and, to further that Reflection, I affure you, that I am So far from Conversing with any Lady, in the Manner you seem to hint, that I scarcely know'
the Name, or Face of any one. -- -- Nay, more,
I give you my word, to which I join my Honour, that, as I never have, I never will make the least: Pretensions of that kind to any Woman during the Time of my Residence here. This poor Evasion, reply’d the Stranger with a Countenance all infiam’d, ill suits' a Man of Elonour. — — This is no Rojnan, no, Italian Bo
m roha, who I mean -- -- -- but Freitcb like you —
like both of us. -- And if your Ingratitude had
not made it necessary for your Peace, to erace
all
/
  7
all Memory of Monsieur frairkville, 3^011 wou’d before now, by the near refeinblance I bear to him, have known me for his Son, and
that ’tis Mell ior as— — fond -- -- -- The
lost -- The ruin’d M e L L i o r a’s Cause which
calls for Vengeance from her brother’s Arm! Never was any Soul agitated with more violent Emotions, than that of Count D’elmont at these Words. Doubt, Griess Resentment, and Amazement, made such a Conftifion in his Thoughts, that he was unable for some Moments to answer this cruel Accusation;; when he did, the Brother of Melliora laid he with a deep Sigh, wou’d certainly have been, next to her self, the most welcome Pershn upon Earth to me; and my Joy to have embrac’d him as the dearest of my Friends, at least have equalfd the Surprise I am in, to find him without Caush my Enemy. -- -- -- But, Sir, if such a
Favour may be granted to an unwilling Foe, I wou’d desire to know. Why you join Ruin to your Sisters Name > ch 1 give me Patience Heaven, cry’d young Fra nkville more enrag’d; Is this a Question fit for you to ask, or me to Answer?? not her Honour Tainted — Same betray’d.* — — “Her self a Vagabond, and her House abus’d, and all by you; the unfaithful Guardian of her injur’d Innocence? — Andean
you ask the Cause > no, rather, rish this
I Moment, and if you are a Man, who dare maintain the ill rou have done, defend it with your Sword; not with vain Words and Womanish Excuses: All the other Paifions which had warr’d within D’E L m o n t’s Breast, riow gave way to Indignation: Rash young Man,
said
»

* (
28 hove in Excess : Off
said he, jumping hastily out of the Bed, and beginning to put his Clothes on : Your Father wou’d not thus have us’d me • nor, did he Live, cou’d blame me, for vindicating as I ought my
wounded Honour -- -- -- That I do Love your Sister
is as True, as that you have wrong’d me — Basely wrong’d me. But that her Virtue suffers
by that Love, is false!! -- -- ^ I must write
the Man that Speaks it, Liar, tho’ in her Brothers Heart. ' Many other violent Expressions to the Same Effect, pafs’d between them, while the Count was drelling himself, for he wou’d suffer no Servant to come in, to be Witness of his Disorder. But the steady Resolution with which he had attested his Innocence, ' and that inexpreltible sweetness of Deportment, equally Charming to both Sexes, and which not even Anger cou’d render less Graceful, extremely cool’d the Heat Frankville had been in a little before, and he in secret, began to recced very much from the ill Opinion he had conceiv’d, tho’ the greatness of his Spirit kept him from ackiiowledging he had been in an Error; still chancing to cast his Eyes on a Table which stood in the Chamber, he Saw the hilt of the broken Sword which D’E L m o n t had brought home the Night before, lying on it; he took it up, and having first look’d on it with some Confusion in his Countenance. My Lord, said he, turning to the Count, I conjure you, before we proceed further, to acquaint jne truly, how this came into your Possession. Tho’ D’E L M o N T had as great a Courage, when any laudable Occasion appear’d to call it forth, as any Man that ever liv’d; yet his natural
r
%
f
'\
I
#
\
 9
tural Disposition had shch an uncommon Sweet ^ in it, as no Provocation con’d sour •; was always a much greater Pleashre to him to Forgive than Fimifi Injuries; and if at any time he was Angry, he was never Rude, or Unjujf. The little Starts of Passion, Fran k v IL L E s rash Behaviour had occafion’d, all dissolv’d in his more accuftomary Softness, when he perceiv’d the other growing Calm. And answering to his Question, with the most obliging Accent in tyre World : It was my good Fortune, (said he) to be instrumental last Night, in the Rescue of a Gentleman who appear’d to have much Bravery, and being attack’d by odds, behav’d himself in shch a Manner, as wou’d have made him stand but little in need of my Alfistaiice, if his Sword had been equal to the Arm which held it • but the breaking of that, gave me the Glory of not being unserviceable to him. After the Skirmish was over, I took it up, hoping it might be the means Sometime or other of my difeovering who the Pershn was, who wore it; not out of Vanity of receiving Thanks for the little I have done, but that I shou’d be glad of the Friendship of a Person, who stems sh worthy my Esteem. Oh far! cry’d Frankville, with a Tone and Gesture quite alter’d, infinitely .far from it —
It was my self whom you preferv’d; that very Man whost Life you but last Night sh gene rously redeem’d, with the hazard of your own, comes now prepar’d to make the first use of it
against you -- Is it possible that you can be so
heavenly Good to Pardon my wild passions Heat? Let this be witness, with what Joy I do,
answer’d
ft
‘ s
go   : Or.,
answer’d the Count, tenderly Embracing him, which the other eagerly returning; they continu’d lock’d in each others Arms for a considerable Time, neither of them being able to
say more, than -- And was it Frankville
I preferv’d And was it to D’E L m o n t
I owe my Life!.
/
I
After this mutual Demonstration of a perfect Reconcilement was over: See here, my Lord, said Frankville, giving■ a Paper to the Count, the occasion of my raih ness, and let my just concern for a Sisters Honour, be at least slime little Mitigation of my Temerity, in accosting your Lordship in so rude a Manner. D’E L m o n t made no Answer, but looking hastily over the Paper found it contain’d thesh Words.
I
To Monfiexir frankville.,
WHILE your Sifers Difiomur was known
but to few, and the htjurioiis Defroyer oj it, out of the reach of your revengei thoughtk woiild ill become the Friendfiip I have always pro' fefdd to your Family, to disquiet you with the knowledge of a Misfortune, which it was no way in your Rower to Redress.
butcomt D’elm o N T, having, hythe Solicitations of his Friends, and the remembran ces of some sight Services, obtain d a Pardon from
the rtjng, for the Murder of his Wife; has fnce
taken *
* • '
#
J
I
The Fatal Enquiryt, 31
*
taken but little care 'to conceal the Reasons which induc’d him todhat barbarous ashon • and all Paris is now fenfble that he made thdt unhappy Lady's Life a Sacrifce to the more attrabive Beauties ^ ojtmelliora in bloody Recompense for the Sacrifce fe had before made him of her Virtue,
«
IN fort, the Noble Family of the Er ah K
VILLES is for ever difonoukd by this Unfaithful Guardian; and au who wif) you welprejoice to hear that his ill Genius has led him to a place which, if he knew you were at, certainly Prudence wou’d make him of all' others mof avoid • for none believes you will sofar degenerate from the Spirit of your Ati ^ cefors, as to permit him to go unpunif’d.
IN fnding the Count, you may probably fnd jour Sifer too for tho’, after the Death of Ah o vysa, Shame made her retire to a Monafry, fie has fnce privately left it without acquainting the Abbess, or any of the Siferhood, with her Departure; 7wr is it known to any one, where, or for what Cause fie ahfcojids; but 7noft People imagine as indeed it is highly reasonable, that the Violeytce of her guilty Passion for D’elmont has engag’d
her to follow him,
I an not unfenfble how much Ifiock your Temper hy this Relation, but have too much real concern for your Honour, to endure you, fiopd, thro’ Ig ' norance of your Wrongs, remain Passive in such a Cause, and perhaps hug the Treacherous Friend in your rpof ft'fib Etnbrace : Nor can I forbear, tho’
Hove not Blood, urging you to take that juf Revenge, '
^ 1
ft'
I' '
►,. t
f *
2 2 Love iti Excess r : Or
• *

vemge, which next to Heaven you hive the greatefi Claim to.
I am, Sir, with all due Respect,
Yours, S A N S E V E R I N.
The Count fweird with Indignation ate
%*ery Paragraph of this Letter; but when he came to that, wshich mention’d melliora’s having withdrawn herself from the Monastery, he feem’d to be wholly abandon’d by his Reason; all Endeavours to represent his Agonies wou’d be vain, and none but those who have felt the same, can have any Notion of what he fuster’d. He read the fatal Scroll again and again, and every time grew wilder than before, he stamp’d, bit his Lips, look’d furioufiy about him, then, starting from the place where he had stood, mea fur’d the Room in strange, diforder’d, and unequal Paces; all his Motions, all his Looks, all his Air were nothing but Distradtion : He fpob not for slime time, one Word, either prevented by the riling Passions in his Soul, or because it was not in the Power of Language to express the Greatness of his Meaning •, and when, at last, he open’d his Mouth, it was but to utter half Sentences, and broken Complainings; Is it poshble, he cry’d, -- -- gone, — - left the Monastery unknown -- -- -- -- -- and then again — — false— —
Woman? — - Wretched — wretched Man! There's no such Thing on Earth as Faith— — this the Estedt of all her tender Paifion I — ■ So'
shon forgot -- -- What can be her Reason?? —
Action Suits not with her.words, or Letters. In this manner he raved with a Thousand shch like
Breathings
/
«
4
t
Ihe Fatdl Inquiry, 52
Breathings of a tormented Spirit, tofs’d and confounded between various Sentiments.
% I
mo7tjieurvia nkville Stood for a good while iilently observing him and if before, he were not perfestly affur’d of his Innocence, the ago r nies he now saw him in, wr.ich were too natural to be fufpcsted for Counterfeit, entirely con)) him he was so. When the first Gust of Passion was blown over, and he perceiv’d any likelihood of being heard, he said.a Thousand tender and obliging Things to perfivade him to Moderation, but to very little Effest:, ’till finding that, that which gave hiin the most stinging Reflestion was, the Belief that Mell iora had < forsook the Monastery, either because she thought of him no more,, and was willing to divert her enfranchis’d Inclination wfith the Gaieties of the Town, or that Ibme happier Man had Supplanted him in her Esteein, Judge not, my Lord,
(Said he) fb rashly of my sister’s Fidelityj nor know so little of your own unmatch’d perfesti ons, as to shfpest: that she, who is Blessed with your Affection, can confider any other Objest: as worthy her Regard 1 For my part, stiice your Lordship knows, and I firmly believe, that this Letter contains a great many Untruths, I See, no Reason why we should not imagine it all of a piece : I declare 1 think it much more iinpro bable that she should leave the Monastery, unless solicited thereto by yost, thain that she had the power to deny you anything your Passion might request. The count’s disorder visibly abated at this Remonstrance; and stepping hastily to his Cabinet, he took out the last Letter
D he'
V
5  : Oty
he receiv’d from Melliora, and found it was dated but two Days before that from Monsieur Sanseverin; he knew she had not Art, nor was accustom’d to endeavour to disguise her Sentiments; and she had written so many tender Things in that, as, when he gave himself leave to confider, he could not, without believing her to be either the most difsembling, or most fickle of her Sex, continue in the Opinion which had / made him, a few Moments before, so uneasy, that she was no longer, what she always fubfbrib’d her self. Entirely Hk,
/
The Tempest of Rage and Grief being hush’d to a little me re Tranquillity, Count D’elmont, to remove all Scruples which might be yet remaining in the Breast of Monfeiir Frankville, entertain’d him with the whole History of his Adventures, from the Time of his Gallantry with Amen A, to the Misfortunes which; had induc’d him to Travel, Difguiling nothing of
the Truth, but some part of the Discourses which had pafs’d between him and Melliora that Night when he furpriz’d her in her Bed, and in the Wilderness; For tho’ he freely confess’d the Violence of his own unbounded Pastion, had hiirry’d him beyond all Considerations but thoss of gratifying it •, yet he was too tender of melliora’s Honour, to relate anything of ’’ her, which Modesty might not acknowledge, without the Expense of a Blush
*
listn^d with abundance f Attention to, the Relation he made him, and could find very little in his Condmst to accuse;;
was
y
i
I
t
I
I
 5
/
ft
was himself too much susceptible of the Power of Love, not to havecompastion for those that fuller'd by it, and had too great a share of good Sense not to know that, that Passion is not to be circumfcrib’d; and being not only, not suv servient, but abfolutel)r Controlled of the Will, it would be .mere Madness, as well as 111 Nature, to say a Person was Blaiiie worthy for what was unavoidable.
Wii E N Love once becomes in our Power, it fceafes to be worthy of that Name; no Man really possessed with it, can be Master of his adli ons; and whatever effeds it may Enforce, are lio more to be condemn’d, than Poverty, Sickness, Deformity, or any other Misfortune incident to Humane Nature. Methinks there is nothing more absurd than she Notions of slime People, who in other Things are wise enough too; but wanting Elegance of Thought, Delicacy, or Tenderness of Soul, to receive the im preffion of that harmonious Passion, look on sthble to be mad, who have any Sentiments elevated above their own, and either Censhre, or Laugh, at what they are not refin’d enough to comprehend. Thesh hjipids, who know nothing of the Matter, tell us Very gravely, that v/e ought to Love with Moderation and Discretion— — take Care that it is for otir Interesh — that
, / > i.,;
■tve should never place our Astestions, but where Duty leads, or at least, where neither Religion, Reputation, Or Law, may be a Hindrance to our Wishes. - — Wretches! Wsh know all this as well as they *, we know too, that we both do, and leave undone many other Things, which we
D 2 ought
\
jd   : Or
ought not; but Perfestion is not to be expested on this fide the Grave : And since ’tis impossible for Humanity to avoid Frailties of some kind or other, those are certainly least blame able, which spring only from a too great Affluence of the nobler Spirits. Covetoitjitefs. Envy, Pride, Revenge, are the Effests of an Earthy, Base, and Sordid Nature, Ambition and Love, of an Exalted one; and if they are Failings, they are such as plead their own Excuse, and can never want Forgiveness from a generous Heart, provided no indirest: Courses are taken to procure the Ends of the former, nor Inconstancy, or Ingratitude, stain the Beauty of the latter,
t
\
Not with standing all that Monfewr Frankville could say, the Count, tho’ not in the Rage of Temper he had been in, was yet ver}r melancholy; which the other perceiving, Alas, my Lord, said he Sighing, if you were sensible of the Misfortunes of others, you would think your own more easy to be born: You Love, and are belov’d; no Obstacle remains between you and your Desires;; the Formality of Custom, which a little time will Remove, and at your Return to Paris you will doubtless be happy, if ’tis in ray sister’s Power to make jrou fb; You have a Sure Profyest of Felicity to come, but mine is paji, never, I fear, to be retriev’d. What mean you? cry’d the Count pretty much furpriz’d at his Words, and the Change which he obferv’d in his Countenance, 1 am ill Love! reply’d He, belov’d! Nay, have enjoy’d — - Ay, there’s the Source
of
\
ft
ft
 7
of my Despair— — know the Heaven I have lost,
and that’s my Hell. tste Interest D’el mont
had in his Concerns, as being Son to the Mair who he had loved with a kind of filial Affection, and Brother to the Woman who he ador’d above the World, made him extremely desirous to know what the Occasion of his Disquiet was, and having expressed himself to that purpose;
I shall make no Difficulty, reply’d Frankville, to Reveal the Secret of my Love, to him who is a Lover, and knows so well, how to pity, and forgive, the Errors which that Passion will sometimes lead us into. The Count was too impatient to hear the Relation he was about to give him, to make miy other Answer to thesh Words than with a half Smile • which the other perceiving, without any farther Prelude, began to shtisfy his Cnriossty in this manner.
^ •
The htjlorj of Monsieur Frankville.
-
X
\
N
YO U know, my Lord, said he, that I was Bred at Rheims with my Uncle, the Bishop of that Place, and continu’d with him still after, prompted by Glory, and hope of that Renown you have since so Gallantly acquir’d: You left the Pleasures of the Coiirt for the Fatigues and Dangers of the Field: When I came home, I never ceas’d soliciting my Father to permit me to Travel, ’till weary’d with my continual Importunities, and perhaps, not much difpleas’d with my Thirst of Improvement, he at last gave leave. I left Paris a little before the Conclusion of the Peace, and by that means remain’d wholly a Stranger to your lordship’s Pershn,
D 3 tho’
V
gb Love in thxcejs : Or
ft
tho’ perfestly acquainted with those admirable
Accomxstishments which Fafne is everywhere
so full of.
^, I HAVE been; n the Courts of England, Spah,
and Portugal, but nothing very material hap ning to me in any of thole Places, it would be rather Impertinent, than Diverting, to defer, for Trifles, the main Business of my Life, that of my Love, which had not a Being still I came into this City.
I H A D been here but a little Time before I had a great many Acquaintance, among the ■ Number of them, was Jauhes Bono"
Kins Cittolini : He, of all the rest, I was most intimate with; and tho’ to the Generality of People he behav’d himself with an Air of Imperiouliiefs, he was to me, all free, and easy; he feem’d as if he took a Pleasure in Obliging me; carry’d me everywhere with him; introduc’d me to the best Company: When I was absent he spoke of me, as of a Person who he had the highest Esteem foi; and when I was present, if there Were any in Company whose rank oblig’d him to place them above me in the Room; he took care to testify that I was not below them in his refpeb in fine, he was never more happy than when he was giving me some Proof how much he was my Friend; and I was not a little fatisfy’d that a Man of almost t\yice my Years shotild believe me epiali fy’d for his Companion in such a manner as he
made me.
/. '■
%
When
I
 9
N
When the melancholy Account of rhy Fathers Death came to my Ears, he omitted nothing to perfijade me to sell myestate ixrfrajtse, and settle in Rome • he told me he had a Daughter, whose Heart had been the aim of the chiefest Nobility •, but that he wou’d buy my Company at that Price, and to keep me here, woffd give me her. This Proportion was not altogether so pleasing to me, as perhaps, he imaging it wou’d be * I had heard muck Talk of this Ladies Beauty, but I had never seen her; and at that Time, Love was little in my Thoughts, especially that sort which Was to end in Marriage. However, I wou’d not absolutely refuse his Offer, but evaded it, which I had the better pretence for, because Violetta, (so was his Daughter call’d) was gone to Vitterho to Visita sick Relation, and I cou’d not have the opportunity of feeing her. Jii the mean time, he made me acquainted with his deepest Secrets; among many other Things he told me, that tho’ their Family was one of the greatest in Rome, yet by the too great Liberality of his Father, himself and one Sister was left with very little to Support the Grandeur of their Birth; but that his Sistec who was acknowledg’d a Woman of an uncommon Beauty, had the good Fortune to appear fb, to Signior Marcarius Fialafco he was the poflestbr of immense Riches, but very Old; but the young Lady found Charms enough in his Wealth to balance all other Deficiencies; She Married, and Buried him in a Monthst Time, and he dy’d so full of fondness to his lovely
D 4 Bride,
4p   : Or
Bride, that he left her Mistress of all he had in the World; giving only to a Daughter he had hr a former Wife, the Fortune which her Mother had brought him, and that too, and herself to be dispose oss in Marriage, as this triiimph mit Widow should think fit; and she, like a kind Sister, thought none worthy of that Alliance, but her Brother; and in a few Days he laid, he did not doubt but that I should see him a Bridegroom. I ask’d him if he was happy enough to have made an Interest in the young lady’s Heart; and he very frankly answer’d, That he was not of a Humour to give himself much uneasiness about it, since it was wholly
in his Sisters Power to make him Master of her
1 •
Person, and she reshlv’d to do that, or, Confine her in a Monastery for ever. I cou’d not help feeling a Compaiiionate concern for this Lady, tho’ she was a Stranger to me, for I cou’d not believe, fb Beautiful and accomplish’d a Woman, as he had often defcrib’d her to be, cou’d find anything in her defign’d Husband which cou’d niake this Match agreeable. Nothing can be more disterent from Graceful, than the Per
^ X /. i:
shn of Cittolini; he is of a black swarthy Complexion, hook’d nos’d, wail ey’d, short of Stature; and tho’ he is very Lean, the worst shap’d Man I ever saw;; for his Temper, as friendly as he behav’d to me, I dif corn’d a great deal of Treachery, and Bafeiiefs fii it to others •, a perpetual peevishness and pride appear’d in his Deportment to all those who had any dependance on Hiin : And I had been told by fi)me who knew him perfestly well, that his cruel Usage of his first Lady had
, been
\
I
 1
11
ken the means of her Death •, but this was none of my Business, and tho’ I pity’d the Lady, yet my Gratitude to him engag’d me to wish him Success in all his Undertakings. Till one Day, unluckily both for him and me, as it has since prov’d; he defir’d me to Accompany him to the House of C i a m asa, for sh is his Sister call’d, being, willing I suppose, that I shou’d be a Witness of the extraordinary State she liv’d in 1 and indeed, in all the Courts I had been at, I never saw anything more Magnificent than her Apartments 5 the vast quantity of Plate; the Richness of the Furniture, and the number of Servants attending on Her, inight have made her be taken rather for a Princess, than a private Woman. There was a very noble Collation, and she sat at Table with us, herself, a particular .Favour from an Italian Lady : She is by many Years younger than her Brother, and extremely Handshme 5 but has I know not what of fierceness in her Eyes, which renders her, at least to me, a Beauty, without a Charm. After the Entertainment, Cittol ini took me into the Gardens, which were answerable to what I had seen within, full of Curiosities;; one end there was a. little Building of Marble, to vrhich he led me, and. entering into it; see here, Monjieur, said he, the Place where my Sister spends the greatest part of her Hours, and tell me if stis in this kind of Diversion that the French Ladies take Ddight. I presently saw it was full of Books, and guefs’d thosh Words were defign’d for Satyr on our Ladies, whose disposition to Gallantry Seldom affords much time for Reading; but to make as good a Defence for theirhonoiir as
. ■ “■ I
jf.  : Or
ft I I
^ _ • I
I was able.' Sigmor, reply’d I, it must be confessed, that there are very few Ladies of any Nation, who think the Acquisition of Knowledge, worth the Pains it must cost them in | the Search, but that ours is not without fomf Examples, that all are not cf that Mind • our famous d’anois, and d’ader may evince. Well, Well, interrupted he laughing; the propensity which that Sex bears to Learning is so trifling, that I shall not pretend to hold any argui ment oh its Praise;; did I bring you here so much to engage you to Admire my Sisters manner of Amusement, as to give you an Opportunity of diverting yourself, while I go to pay a Compliment to my Mistress; who, tho’i have a very great Confidence in you, I dare not trust with the sight of so accomplilh’d a Chevalier. With these Words he left me, and I, designing to do as he had deiir’d; turn’d to the Shelves to take down what Book I cou’d find most suitable to my Humour but good God! as I was tumbling them over, I saw thro’ a Window which look’d into, a Garden behind the Study, tho’ both belonging to one Person' ' Woman, or rather Angel, coming down a Wall
direstly opposite to where I was, never did I So in one Pershn such various Perfestions blended never did any Woman wear so much of her Sou in her Eyes, as did this Charmer : I saw tha moment in her Looks, all I have since eiperi enc’d of her Genius, and her Humour, Wit Judgement, good Nature and Generosity are i her Countenance, conspicuous as in her Astions but to go about to make a Description were t wrong her; She has Graces so peculiar, that
non
1
\
 3
none, without knowing her, can be able to conceive; and tho’ nothing can be finer than her. Shape, or more regular than her Features; yet those, our fancy or a Painters Art may Copy; There is something fb inexpressibly striking in her Air; such a delightful Mixture of awful and attractive in every little Motion, that no immagination can come up to. But if Language is too poor to paint her Charms, how shall I make you fenssble of the Effests of them on me I the Surprise — the Love -- the Adoration which this fatal View involv’d me in, but by that which, you say, your self felt at the first Sight of Melliora. I was, me thought, all Spirit, — I beheld her with Raptures, such as we imagine Souls enjoy when freed from Earth, they meet each other in the Realms of Glory •, ’twas Heaven to gaze upoii her: But Oh! the Bliss was short, the Envious Trees obstur’d her Lustre from me. ^^the Moment
I lost Sight of her, I found my Passion by my Pain the Joy was vanish’d, but the Sting remain’d — I was so bury’d in Thought, that I never so much as stirr’d a Step to endeavour to discover \yhich way she went; tho’ if I had confider’d the Situation pf the Place, it would have been easy for me to have known there was a Communication between the two Gardens, and if I had gone but a few Paces out of the Study, must have met her *, but Love had for the present depriv’d me of my Senses and it but just enter’d into my Head that there was a Possibility of renewing ray Happiness when I perceiv’d Cittolini returning. When
became pretty near; Dear Frankville, said'
'
  .* Or"
"* pardon my Neglect of yon; but I hare been at camilla’s Apartment, and am told she is in the lower Garden • I will but speak to her, fiiatch a Kiss and be with you again : He went hastily by me without staying for any Answer, and it was well he did So, for the Confusson L was in, had made me little able to reply. His Words left me no room to hope it was any other than Camilla I had seen, and the Treachery I was guilty of to my Friend, in but wishing to invade his Right, gave me, a Remorse. which I had never known before: But these Reflections lasted not long; Love generally exerts himself on these Occastons, and is never at a Lost for means to remove all the Scruples that may be rais’d to oppose him. Why, said I to my self, should I be thus Tormented? She is not yet married, and ’tis almost impolfible she can with Satisfastion, ever yield to be sh, to him. Could I but have opportunity to Talk to her, tolet her know my Paifion, — to endeavour to deliver her from the Captivity she is in, perhaps she would not condemn my Temerity: I found a great deal of Pleasure in this Thought, but I was not fuster’d to enjoy it long : Honour shggested to me, that Cittolini lov’d me, had oblig’d me, and that to supplant him would be Base and Treacherous : But would it not be more so, cry’d the Dictates of my Love, to permit the Divine Camilla to fall a Sacrifice to one sh every way undeserving of her ♦, one who ’tis likely She abhors •, one who despises her Heart, folie may but postefs her Fortune to slip ]ort his Pride, and her Person to gratify a faihon far uriwtorthy of the Name of Love; one,
who
/
\
I
/
I
I!
ft
The Fatal Enqnitss 45
r \ *
Tis probable, when Master of the one, and Satiated with the other, may treat her with the. utmost Inhumanity. Thus, for a time, were my Thoughts at Strife; but Love at length got the Vistory, and I had fb well compos’d inyjfelf before Cittol ini’s Return, that he saw nothing of the Dishrder I had been in; but it was not so with him, his Countenance, at the best displeassng enough, was now the perfest re prefentative of 111 Nature, Malice, anddifcon tent. Camilla had assiifd him, that nothing could be more her Aversion, and that she was refolv’d, tho’ a Monastic Life was what she Sad no Inclination to, yet she would fly to that Shelter, to avoid his Bed. iriay imagine,
jny Lord, I was Transported with an Excess of Joy, when he told me this; but Love taught me to dissemble it, still I had taken, leave of him, which I made an Excuse to do, as shon as possible.
Now all that troubled me was to find art Opportunity to declare my Pairion; and, I confess, I was so dull in Contrivance, that tho’it took up all my Thoughts, none of them were to any purpose: : or four Days I spent in fruitless Projedions, the last of which I met with a new Embarrastinent; Cittol ini’s Daughter was return’d, he renew’d his Desires of making me his Son, and invited me the next Evening to his House, where I was to be enter ^ tain’d with the Sight of her; I could not well avoid giving him my Promise to he there, but resolv’d in my Mind sh behave my self in such
a manner as should make her disspprove of me.
While;
;
\
Love in exceji : Off
« ‘
While I Was thus bussed in Contrivi ng how to avoid violei'ta, and engage Camilla, ^ Woman wrapped up very closely in her Vail came to my Lodgings, and brought me a Note, in which I found these Words,
O
To Monsieur FRANKVILLE.
«
MT Father is refolv’d to make me Tours; ani
if he has yoiir Consent, mine will rot he de manied; he has Commanded me to receive you tomorrow, bliti have a particular Reason to deftri to see you sooner; I am to pafs this Night with Camiila at my Aunt Ciamarah; there is a little jficket that ope^is from the Garden, direbly opp’ fte to the Convent of Sir Francis, ij you will favour me sofar as to come there at Ten a Clock tonight, and give Seven gentle Knocks at the Gate: Tonne fid know the Cause of my Entreating this private Interview, which is of more Moment than the Life of
Violetta.
Never had I been niore pleasingly furpriz’d, than at the Reading these Lines; I could not ' imagine the Lady could have any other Reason
for feeing me in private, than to confess that. her Heart was pre engag’d, and dissuade me
from taking the Advantage of her father’s Authority, a secret Hope too, sprung within my Soul, that my Adorable Camilla might be with her 3 and after I had difmiifs’d the "Woman,
A
*
ft
‘ I
 7
4
nan, with an Assurance that I would attend her Ady, I spent my Time in vast idea’s of ap iroaching Happiness ’till the appointed Hour irriv’d.
But how great was itiy Disappointment
Arhen being admitted, I cou’d distinguish tho’, the Place was Very dark, that I was receiv’d but by one ind accosted by her, in a manner very disterent From what I expested : I know not, Monsieur, said she, how you interpret this Freedom I have taken; but whatever we pretend, our Sex, of all Indignities, can the least shpport those done to our Beauty *, I am not vain enough of mine, to assure my self of making a Conquest of your heart; and if the World should know you have [m, and refus’d me, my slighted Charms umuld be the Theme of Mirth to those whose Envy now they are: I therefore beg, that if I am diflik’d, none but my self may know it when you have Seen my Face, which you shall do immediately, give me your Opinion freely; and if it is not to my Advantage, make some. pretence to my Father to avoid coming to our House. I protest to you, my Lord, that I was sh much furpriz’d, at this odd kind of proceeding, that I knew not preshntly how to Reply, which she imagining by my Silence: Come, come, Monsieur, said Ihe, I am not yet on even Terms with you, having often seen your Pace, and you wholly a Stranger to mine : But when our Knowledge' «
of each other is Mutual, I hope you will be as free in your Declaration as I have been in my Request. Thesh Words I thought were as proper for my Purpose as I cou’d wish, and
Rawing back a little, as she was about to lead
me.
4§   f : Or
tne: Madam, said I, since you have that Advantage, methinks it were hut just, you shou’d reveal what sort of Sentiments the sight of me has infpir’d, for I have too much Reason froii! the knowledge of my Demerit, to fear, you have no other design in eipofing your Charms, than to Triumph in the Captivating a Heart you have already doom’d to Misery;; will tell you nothing, answer’d she, of my sentiments’till I have a perfest knowledge of yours. As fly spoke this, she gave me her Hand to conduct me out of that Place of Darkness; as we went,
. r ^ 1
I had all the Concern at the apprehension of being too much approv’d of by this young Lady, as I shou’d have had for the contrary, if I had iiriagin’d who it was I had been talking with, for as shon as we came out of the Grotro, I law by the light of the Moon, which shone that Night with an uncommon Lustre, the Face, Which in those Gardens had besore sh Charmed
me, and Which had never since been absent from ' my Thoughts. What Joy, what a mixture of
Ecstasy and Wonder, then fill’d my raptur’d Soul at this second view, at first icou’d not trull: my Eyes, or think my Happiness was real: I gaz’d, and gaz’d again in filent Transport, for the big Bliss furpals’d the reach of Words. ¥kt Monjieiir, said she, obshrving my coiifuiion, are you yet Dumb, is there anything sh dreadful in the form of V i o L e t t a, to deprive you of your Speech. No Madani, reply’d I, ’tis not Violetta has that Power, but Ihe, who unknowing that she did sh, caught at first sight the Vistory o’re my Soul, she, for whom J have vented so many Sighs *, she for whom
I
%
I
t
i
V
\
 9
i languish’d and almost dy’d for; while V i ole T T A was at Vitterho: She! the Divine Camilla only cou’d inspire a Passion such as shine Oh Heavens! cry’d she, and at that instant I perceiv’d her lovely Face all crishfon’d o’re with Blushes; is it then possible that you know me; have seen me before, and that I have been able to make any Impression bn you? I then told her of the Visst I had made to Ciamara with Cittolini, ^ and how by his leaving me in the Marble study, I was blessed with the ssght of Her •, and from his Friend became his Rival : I let her know the Conflists my Honour and my, Obligations bo Ctttoli ni had engag’d me in; the thousand various Inventions Love had. suggested to me, to obtain that Happiness I now enshy’d, the opportunity of declaring my self her Slave; and in short, conceal’d not the least Thought tending to my Palfioh frosh Her. She, in requital, ac tiuainted me, that she had often seen me from her Window, go into the convent of St Pranas, walking in the Collonade at St. Peter s, and in several other Places, and, prompted by an extravagance of good Nature, and Generossty, con sefs’d, that her Heartfelt something at those Views, very prejudicial to her Repose: That Cittolini, always, disagreeable, was nov grown Odious; that the Discourse she had heard of my intended Marriage with his Daughter, hadgiven her an alarm impolfible to be ei prefs’d, and that, unable longer to support the Pangs of undifcover’d Passion, she had writ to me in that Ladies Name, who she knew I bad never seen, resolving, is I lik’d her as V i o
E L E t T A,
«
i "
#
  : Otd.
LET A, to own her self Cam i L L a, if not, to go the next Day to a Monastery, and devote to heaven thofe Charms which wanted force to make a Conquest where alone fly wish’d they shou’d,
♦ * • ft
I M IT s T leave it to 3mtir lordship’s imagination to conceive the wild tumultuous hurry of disorder’d Joy which fill’d my ravish’d Soul at this Condefcentioii; for I aipnow as unable to difcribe it, as I was then to Thank the Dear, the tender Author of it, hut what Words had not Power to do, 'Looks and Abtiom. testifyed; I threw my self at her Feet, embrac’d her Knees, and kiss’d the Hand she rais’d me with, with such a Fervour, as no false Love cou’d feign *, while she, all Softness, all divinely Kind, yielded to the pressure of my glowing Lips, and suffer’d me to take all the freedom, which Llonour and Modesty wou’d permit. This interview was too felicitous to be easily broken off', it was almost broad Dayr when, we parted, and nothing but her Promise, that • I shou’d be admitted the next Night, cou’d hav enabled me to take leave of her.
I W E N T away highty fatify’d, as I bad good Reason, with my Condition, and after recolleding all the tender paltages of our Com verlation; I began to confider after what manner I ihou’d proceed with Cittolini, to Visit 'and Address his Daughter *, I thought wou’d be Treacherous and Deceitful to the last degree; and how' to coirie off, after the Promise I made of feeing her that Evening, I cou’d not
tell J ■
I
/ \
$
I
  ^ t
sell; at last, since Necessity oblig’d me to one i refolv’d of the two Evils to chiife the least, and rather to seem Rudd, then Base, which I must have been, had ihy counterfeiting a Desire to engage V ioletta, left room for a possibility of creating one in her. I therefore, writ to Cittolini an Excuse for not waiting on Him and his Daughter, as I had promis’d, telling him that I, on more serious Reflection found it wholly inconsistent, either with my Circumstances, or Inclinations, to think of passing all my Life in Rome; that I thank’d him for the Honour he intended ine, but that it was my Misfortune, not to be capable of accepting it. Thus, with all tyre Artifice I was Master of,
I endeavour’d to Sweeten the bitter Pill of re fusal, but in vain; for he was so much dif gufted at it, that he visited me no more:
I cannot say, I had Gratitude enough to be much concern’d at being compell’d to ule him in this Fashion; for, since I had beheld, and ador’d Camilla, I cou’d confider him no longer as afriendi but as the most dangerous Enemy to, my Hopes and me. All this time I spent the best part of the Nights with C a m i L L a, and in one of them, after giving, and receiving a thousand Vows of ever lasting Faith, I snatch’d a lucking Moment, and obtain’d from the dar, melting Charmer, all that my Fondest, and most eager Wishes cou’d aspire to. Yes, my Lord, the Soft, the trembling Fair, dissolv’d in Love; yielded without Reserve, and met my Transports with an ecjual Ardour; and I truly protest to your Lordship, that what in others, i palls Desire, added fresh Force to mine; the
"E 2 ■ more'
', I.
I
«
5  : Or,
more I knew, the shore I was inflam’d, and iri the highest Raptures of Enjoyment, the bliss was dash’d With Fears, which prov’d alas, but too Prophetic, that slime cursed Chance might drive me frorn my Heaven : Therefore, to Secure it mine for ever, I pressed the lovely Partner of my Joys, to give me leave to bring a Priest with me the next Night *, who by give iiig a Sanstion to our Love, might put it past the Power of Malice to Distmite us : Here, I experienc’d the greatness of her Soul, and her almost unexampled Generosity;; in spite of all her Love, her Tenderness, and the unbounded Condifcentions file had made me, it was with all the disticiilty in the World, that I persuaded her to thin k of Marrying me without a Fortune 5 which by her father’s 7cz7/, was wholly in the ' .Disposal of Ciamara, who it wme’d have been Madness to Hope, wou’d ever bestow it ' upon me. However, shy Arguments at last pre vail’d; I was to bring a Friar of the Order of St, Franck, who was my intimate Friend, the next Night to join our Hands; which done, she told me, she wou’d advise to leave Rome with what Speed we cou’d, fcr fly doubted not but cittolin I wou’d make use of any means,
• tho’ never so Base or Bloody, to Revenge his
disappoiiitment. This Propossl infinitely pleas’d t me, and after I had taken leave of her, I Spent
the remainder of the Night, in contriving the means of our Escape: Early in the Morning I secur’d Post horfes, and then went to the Convent of St. Francis, a Purse of Lewis o’on fion engag’d the Friar to my Interest, and I I had eveiy thing ready in wondersul Order, cch
. ‘ fiderirg
.. ■.. ' :
I _
 ^ 2
1 •
ideriiig the shortness of the Time, for our Deign : When returning Home towards Evening, s well to take a little rest after the Fatigue I lad, had, as to give some other necessary di estions, concerning the Affair to my Servants, shen one of them gave me a Letter, which had )een jiift left for me.
Monjieur Frank, V ille cou’d not come : o this Part of his Story, without some Sighs,
)Ut suppressing them as well as he was able, he
: 00k slime Papers out of his Pocket, and ssngle rg out one, read to the Count as follows.,
» *
To Monsieur Frankville.
\
WITII what Words can I represent the
greahtefs of my Misfortune, or Exclaim t uiahift the Perfidy of my Woman? I was oblig’d to make her the Confidant of my Pajfion, because without herajfifiance, I cou’d not have enjoy’d thehappi mfs of your Converfatiojt, and ’tis by her that I
an now Betray d -- Undone- -- -- to all hopes
of ever feeing you more — What have J not endur’d this Day, from the upbraiding of Ciamara
m.d. Cittol ini, hit that I ftwu’d difpife,
Tiay, my own Ruin too, if you were safe- --
Oh! their Malice aims to wound me vioft, through you — ""bravo’s are hired, the Price of your Blood is paid, and they have sworn to take your Life — Guard it I conjure you, if you wou’d preserve
that of C a m i L L a’s attempt not tp
some near this House, nor walk alone, when Night
E 3 may
/
t
•
f
A
i
lil Love In Excess : Or,
may he an Umbrage to their Designs - — — / my cruel Enemies returning to reyiew their perfieciiti oils, and I have Time to inform you no more, than that ’tis to the Generous V ioletta you are indebted for this Caution : She, in pity of my a gonies, and to prevent her Father frojn executing the Crime he intends conveys this to you, slight k not, if you wopd have me believe you Love,
CAMILLA.
W H A T a turn was here (continu’d he, Sad “ly) in my Fortune? How on a sudden was my Scene of Happiness chang’d to the blackest dii pair? -- But not to tyre your Lcrdstiip, and Spin out my Narration, which is already too long with unavailing Complainings. I every Day expested a Challenge from Cittol ini, believing he wou’d, at least, take that Method at first, but it seems he was for choosing tbe fureji, not the fairejl wayand I have since i^rov’d, that my Dear Camilla had too much Reason for the Caution she gave me. Ten Days I lingred out without being able to Invent any means, either to see her, or write to ^ Herat the end of which, I receiv’d another
letter from Her, which, if I were to tell you j the Substance of, wou’d be to wrong her; since ^ Words but her own are fit to Express her meaning, and ’tis fcr that Reason only, I stiall! Read it,
J ^ U 3 ^
A ®
W€
m
K
To
T
/
%
.. ^ ft
J
. W
$

To Monsieur F R A N K V I L L £.
OF au the Woes which wait on hmmn? Life, furs there h none Equal to that a Lover feds in Absence;; a kind of heu, an earnefi of those Pains', we are t&ld, fmu be the Portion of the' Damn i... .m.’ten whole Nights, and Days, according to the vulgar Reckoning, but in mine, as many Ages, have rnwi their tedious Hours away fincelaft I saw yon, in all which time my Eyes have never known me Moments cessation from my Tears, nor rny Heart fro7n Aitguifbre filefs I wander through this
hated lionfe -- -- Rifs the clodd Wicket ~~~ fiop, .and
look at every Place which I remember thy dear Jieps have hlefi, thejt, with wild Ravings, third, of pafi
j^ys, and curse my present Woes -- -- -- -- yet, you perr
haps are Calm, no fympatbizhtg Pang invades your Sold, and teds you what mine fuffrs, elfe, you mu’d ~ — you mufi have found some Means to ease your self a?td me — — ’tis true, I bid you not attempt it — but Ob! If you had lov’d like me, you coil’d not have obey d — — Defre has no regard to Prudence, it difpif’5 Danger, and over looks even im pqljiltilities — hit whether am I going? -- — I say, I know wt what — Oh, mark not what difira&iott titters! Shun these detefied Walls! -- -- ’tis Reason mw
commands! fly from this Hotife, where injupd love’s enjlav’d, and Death and Treachery reign — I charge thee come not near, ttor prove thy Faith fa
hzardotts away. -- -- -- forgive the little Fears, which
ever dwell with Love -- -- Ihnow thou art all Jinceri
iy! -- -- all godlike Truth, and can ft not change,
if thon fiyouldft, -- tormenting Thought!
E 4; ~ Afhy
T
I
ft
\
*!
J
\
5  : Or,
* I
tvhy then, there s not a heaven abandon d Wretcd.
so lojl — so Cursed as J.. ~what fall I do to fiafie
off Apprehension?? spite of all thy Vows -- thy
ardent Vows, when I but think of any Maid, by Love, and fond Belief undone, a deadly cold runs thro’ my Veins, congeals my Blood, and chills my very Soul qazi7tg on the Moon laji Night, her Lujire brought frefi) to my Memory those transporting Moments, when by that Light I saw you first a Lover; and, I thirtk inspired me, who am not uf tally fond ofverfi fying to make her this Complaint.
• /
The Unfortunate Gam IL L a’s
Complaint to the Moon, for the Absence
of her Dear Henricus Frankville.
'• • k *
\ ■
^ibld ^leen of shadeslthou sweetly sinning Light I Once, more then Phoebus, welcome to my Sight •* MW as by thy Beams I first Henr icus saw .Adorn d with softness, and difarm’d of Awe!
Never did’fi thou appear more fair [ more bright I
* < _____________________ »
Than on that Dear, that caufe remembered Night!. When the dull Iy es of friendfi)ip he difclaim’d.
And to Inspire a tend’rer Pajfion aimed :
►
Alas! he could not long, in vain, implore
For that, which though ’ unknown, was his before;
_ %. • •
Nor had I Art the Secret to Disguise, 2
My Soul spoke all her Meayiing thro’ my Eyes, >
And every Glance bright’eied with glad Surprise
■ Lofi.
'*1
i ' \
s.
#
 7
t *
Lost to all Thought, but His Transporting Charms, I sunk, unguarded! Melting in his Arms!
Blessed at that lavift) rate, my State, that Hour i’d not have chang’d for all in fortune’s pow’r,
Nay, had difcending angel’s from on High Spread their bright Wings, to waft me to the Sky, Thus clafp’d I Celestial Charms had fail’d to move And heav’n been slighted, for Henricus Love. Bow did I then thy happy Influence Bless??
watch each joyful Night, thy Lights increase? But Oh! How altered since— — now,
I View thy Lustre with contrabed Brow :
Venftve, and fuuenfrom thy Rays wou’d hide.
And scarce the glimmering star’s my Griefs abide. In deathlike darkness wou’d my Fate deplore And wist) Thee to go down, to Rise no more t
PITT the Extravagance of a Passion which only Charms like thine coifd Create, nor too fevereiy chide this soft Impertinence, which I con’d not refrain sending you, when I can neither see you, nor hear from you, to write, gives some little respite to my Pains, because lam sure of being in your Thoughts, while you are Reading my Letters. The tenderhearted Violetta preferring the Ties of Friendfidp to those of Duty, gives me this happy opportunity, but my ill fortune deprives me too of her, she goes tomorrow to her Fathers Villa, and Heaven knows when I ftjall ftndmeans to send to you again.
Farewell, thou Loveliest, Dearest, and Divine
Charmer -- -- -- Think of me with a Concern full of
Tenderness, but that is not eetough; and you must
pardon
I
T
#
< : Or
pardon me, when J cpnjefs, that I cannot forbear wifiing you might feel fame of those Pains, ijnpati
ent longings hring.au others he far as far, osj oy is, when you are Absent from
m
/ ' ■
Tour Unfortunate
* • ' • \
Camilla.
ft
P. S. Since J writ this, a Fajtcy came into my Head, that if you cou’d find a Friend Trufiy enough to confide in, and one wtknown to our Family, he might gain admittance to me in C n t oh i ni i’s Name, as sent hy him, while he is at the V i L L a. J fiatter my self you will take as much pleasure in endeavouring to let me hear from yon, as I do in
the hope of it. Once pore Adieu.
• *
Your Lordship may judge, by what I have told you of the Sincerity of my Passion, how glad I should have been to have comply’d with her Request, but it was utterly imposhble to find, anybody fit for such a Business: : pass’d three or four Days more, in Dishuietudes too great to. be express; I faunter’d up and down the .Street ■ where she liv’d, in hopes to see her at Some of
the, Windows, but Fortune never was sh favourable to me, thus I spent my i)ays, and deft the sight of those dear Walls at Nights, shut in obe r dience to the Charge she had given me of prefer ving my Life.
ft
I
T H n s, my Lord, has the business of my Love engrossed my hours, evej since your Lordships

k
/
'*>•
'1 *
/

1
Ships arrival, and tho’ 1 heard that you were here, and extremely wish’d to kifs your Hands, yet I cou’d never get one Moment compos’d enough to wait on you in, ’till what my Desires cou’d not do, the rashness of my indignation Effested : Last: Night, being at my Bankers where all my Bills and Letters are Dirested, I found this, from Mounfieur Sanseverin, the Rage which the Contents of it put me in, kept me from remeinhring that Circumfpestion, which Camilla had en joyn’d, and I thought of nothing but revenging the in jury I imagin’d you had done me: As I was coming Home I was attack’d as you saw, when you lb generously preferv’d me, the just Indignation I conceiv’d at this base procedure oscittol ini’s transported me sofar, as to make me forget what I owed to my Deliverer, to run in purshit of those who assaulted me, but soon lost sight of them, and returning, as Gratitude and Honour call’d me, to seek *
thank you for your timely alsistance, I found a Throng of People about the Body of the Villain I had killed, some of them were for Examining me, but finding no wounds about me, nor any marks of the Engagement I had! been in, I was left at my Liberty.
Thus, my Lord, have I given you, in as brief a manner as the Changes of my fortune wou’d permit, the Account of my present she lancholly Circumstances, in which, if you find, many things blameable, you must acknowledge shore are shore which require Compassion.
I
/
6o   : Off
IS E E no reashn, answer’d the Count, either for the one or the other, yon have done nothing hut what any Man, who is a Lover, wou’d gladly have it in his Power to do, and as for your Condition it certainly is more to be envy’d than pity’d: The Lady Loves, is Constant, and doubtless will shine way or other, find means for her Eshape, — Imposhble! cry’d Frankville, interrupting him, she is too stristly watch’d to fuster such a Hope. If you will prepare a Letter, refum’d D’elmont, my self will undertake to be the Bearer of it ^ I am entirely a stranger to the People you have been speaking of, or if I should chance to be known to them, cannot be fufpested to come from you, since onr Intimacy, so lately born, cannot yet be talk’d of, to the prejudice of our Design;; how do you know, continifd he smiling, but, if I have the good Fortune to be introduc’d to this Lady, that I shall not be able to ashst her Invention to form some Scheme, for both your future Happiness. This offer was too agreeable to be refus’d, Frankville accepted it with all the
demonstrations of Gratitude and Joy immagi nable, and setting himself down to the Counfs Scrutore, was iiotffong Writing the following Billet which he gave him to read before he stal’d
it.
s
m
The Fatal Bftquify, 6i
ft
I. '‘V
To the most Lovely and Adorable
Camilla.
IF to confnme with inward bitrnkigs, to have no Breath hut Sighs, to wijh for Death, or Madness to relieve me, from the racks of Thought, he Misery confimmate, such is mine! and yet ?ny too tinjiifi Camilla thinks I feel no Pain, and chides my cold Tranquillity, copd I he foi were indeed a Wretch deserving of my Fate, hut far unworthy of your Pity or Regard. No, no, thou Loveliejl, Softefi, 7nofl angelic Creature that Heaven, in Icc ^ vifj Bounty, ever sent to charm the adoring World; he that copd know one Moments Jiupid Calm in ficb an Absence, ought never to he hlejl with those un bounded foys thy Presence brings : What wou’d I not give, what wopd I not hazard Put once more to behold thee, to gaze upon thy Eyes, those Suns of kindling Transports, to touch thy eiilivening Hand, to feed upon the ravifiin^ fweetnefi of thy Lips; Oh the immaginatops Ecstasy, Life were too poor to seton such a Cast, and you fioicd long ere this have prov’d the little Value I have for it, in competition with my Love, if your Commands had not refrained sne. C i T T o L i N i’s Malice, however, had last Light been Gratify d, if the Noble Count dtl m o N T had not been infpipd for my Prefervatiojt, ^ it is to him I am indebted, not only for my Life, but a much greater Favour, that of conveying to you the ajfurance, how jnuch my Lifcy my Soul, and all the faculties of it are eternally Tours. Thank him, my cauitta, for your Frankville, for Words like thine are only fit tc> Praise, as it
deserves!
!
/
/

Love in Excefr: Or,
'f * '
deserves, such an exalted Generosity, ’tis with M hifiyiite deal of satisfad.ien I refieu how much thy Charms will jufiify my coiidub when he sees thee sll that excess of Passion, which my fond Souls too full of to conceal, thdt Eighth of Adoration, which offer’d to any other Woman wou’d he Sactiledge, the wonders of thy Beaiity and thy Wit, claim as thelf due, and prove CKM Inn A, like Heaven, can never he too much reverenc’d! he too much lov’d! — But, Ohs how poor is Language to express what ’tis I think, thus raptiir’d with thy Idea, thou Beji ■ thou Bright efi ~ — thou mofi Per fed. -- thou something
more thai Excellence itself— — far fur faffing all that Words can speak, or Heart, unknowing thee, €onceive, yet I con’d dwell for ever on the Theme, and swell whole Volumes with enervate, tho’ well-meaning Praises, if my Impatience, to have what I have already writ, he with you, did not prevejtt my fayijig any more than, that but hi you I live, nor copd support this deathlike absence, hit for some little intervals of Hope, which sometimes flatter northeast, that Fortune will grow weary of persecuting me, and one Day re iinite my Body to my Soiil and make its both infeparahly Tours,
frankville.
These new made Friends having a fellow-feeling of each others Sufferings, as proceeding from one Source, pafs’d the time in little elfe hut amorous Discourses, till it was a proper Hour for the Count to perform his Promise and taking a full Direstion from Frankville how to find the House, he left him at
his
. \
I
/ •
The Fatal Inquiry * ^ J
his Lodgings to wait his return from ciamara’s, forming, all the way he went, a thousand Projests to communicate to Camilla for her Escape, he Was still extremely uneasy in his Mind concerning Melliora, and long’d to be
ill Paris to know the Truth of that Affair, but thought he cou d not in Honour leave her Brother in this Embarrastinent, and refblv’d to make use of all his Wit and Address to persuade Camilla to hazard everything for Love, and was not a little pleas’d with the imagination, that he Should lay so considerable an obligation on Melliora, as this Service to her Brother wou’d be. Full of these ressestions he found himself in the Portico of that magnificent House he was to enter, and feeing a Crowd of Servants about the Door, defir’d to be brought to the prestnee of Donna Camilla Fialaso, one of them, immediately ebndusted him into a stately Room, and leaving him there, told him, the Lady ssiou’d be made acquainted with his Request •, * presently after came in a Woman, who, tho’ very Young, feem’d to be in the nature of a Duenna, the Count stood with his Back toward her as she enter’d, but hearing somebody behind him, and turning hastily about, he obferv’d she startled at sight of him, and appear’d so confus’d that he knew not what to make of her Behaviour, and when he ask’d if he might speak with Cam ill a, and said he had a Mefiage to deliver from Cittolini, she made no o there Answer than several times, with an amaz’d Accent, Echoing the names of Camilla and Cittolini, as if not able to comprehend his I,
meaning; he was oblig’d to repeat his Words >
1 over
w
6^   : Or
* ■ •
over and over before she cou’d recollect herself enough to tell hini, that she wou’d let him know ' her lady’s pleasure instantly. She left him in
a good deal of Consternation, at the Surprise he perceiv’d the Sight of histi had put her into, h'
'a 'thousand uncertain Guesses what the
Occasson shou’d be, hiit the Mystery was too deep for all his Penetration to fathoin, and he waited with abundance of Impatience for her return, or the appearance of her Lady, either, of which, he hop’d, might give a Solution to this deeming Riddle:
H E attended a considerable time, and Was beginning to grow eiceshve uneasy, at this Delay, when a magnificent anti porta being drawn up, he saw, thro’i a Glass Door, which open’d into a Gallery, the Duenna approaching : She had now entirely compos’d her Cotintehance, and with an obliging Smile told him, she wou’d con dust him to her Lady. She led him thro’ several Rooms, all richly furnish’d and adorn’d, but' far inferior to the last he came into, and in which he was again left alone, after being af shr’d that he should not long be sh.
b
Count D’E L 1st o n t cou’d not forbear giving Truce to his more serious Ressestions, to admire the Beauties of the Place he was in, where e’er he turn’d his Eyes, he saw nothing but what was splendidly Luxurious, and all the Ornaments contriv’d in such a manner, as might fitly be a Pattern, to paint the Palace of the Queen of Love by : The Ceiling was vastly high and beautify’d with most curious Paintings:
:
f
. ft ft •
  ' y
'V' ', ^ ■ were cover’d with tai^estrv, in which,
most artificially were woven, in various cost lour’d Silk, intermix’d with Gold and Silver, a great number of Amorous Stories; in one Place he beheld a Naked Venus Sporting with Adonis; in another, the Love, transform’d Jupiter, just resuming his Shape, and rushing fb the Arms of Leda •, there, the seeming Chast Diana Embracing her entranc’d Bndimion; here, the God of soft Desires himself, wounded with an Arrow of his own, and snatching Kisses from the no less enamour’d Pjiche: betwixt every one of these Pieces hupg a large Looking - Glass, which reach’d to the top of the Room, and out of each sprung stveral crystal Branches, containing great Wax tapers, fb that the number of Lights vy’d with the Sun, and made another, and more glorious Day, than that which lately was withdrawn. At the upper End of this magnificent Chamber, there was a Canopy of Crimfbn Velvet, richly embofs’d, and trim’d with Silver, the Corners of which were supported by two golden Cupids, with stretch’d out Wings, as if prepar’d to fly; two of their Hands grafp’d the extremity of the Valen, and the other, those nearest to each other, joyn’d to hold a wreath of Flowers, over a Couch, which stood under the Canopy. But tho’ the Count Was very milch taken at first with what he saw, yet he was too true a Lover to be long delighted with anything in the absence of his Mistress; How Heavenly (said he to himself Sighing) wou’d be this Place, if I expected Melliora here I But Oh I how preferable were a Cottage blessed with her, to all this Pomp and Grandeur
F with
I
6  : Or
with any other; this Gonfideratiori threw him into a deep Musing, which made him forget either where he was, or the Business which brought him there, till roused from it by the » dazzling Owner of this sumptuous Apartment *,
nothing could be more glorious than her Appearance; she was by Nature, a Woman of a most: excellent Shape, to which, her desire of Pleasing, had made her add all the aids of Art; she was dress: in a Gold and Silver stuff petti coat, and a Wastcoat of plain blue Satin, fet • round the Neck and Sieves, and down the Seams with Diamonds, and fastened on the Breast, with ■ Jewels of a prodigious largeness and lustre •, a
Girdle of the ssme encompass’d her Waste; her Hair, of which she had great quantity, was black as Jet, and with a studied Negligence, sell part of it on her Neck in careless Ringlets, and the other was turn’d up, and fasten’d here and there with Bodkins, which had pendant Diamonds hanging to ’dn, antl as she mov’d, glittered with a quivering Blaze, like Stars darting their fires from out a sable Sky; she had a Vail on, but so thin, that it did not, in the least, obscure the shine of lier Garments, or her Jewels, only she had contriv’d to double that part of it which hung over her Face, in so many folds, that it ferv’d to conceal her as well as a Vizard Mask.
Th e Count made no doubt btit this was the Lady for whom he waited, and throwing off that melancholy Air he had been in, assum’d one, all Gayand Ealy, and bowing low, as he advanc’d to meet her; Madam, laid he, if yeu
are
  t’f
arethat incomparable Camilla whose Goodness, nothing bstt her Beauty can equalise, you will forgive the intrulion of a Stranger, who confesses himself no other Way worthy of the Honour of your Conversation, but by his Dessres to serve hirst who is much mbre so : A Friend of Cittol IN iss, answer’d she, can never want admittance here, and if you had no other Plea, the Name you costie in, is a sufficient Warrant for your kind Reception : I hope, refum’d he, in a low Voice, and looking round to see if there were no Attendants in hearing, I bring a Letter from Frankville, Madam, the adoring Fra nkvill e, I have these Credentials to Justify my Visst; in speaking this he deliver’d the Letter to her, which she retiring a few' Pates from him to read, gave him an Opportunity of admiring the Majesty of her Walk, and the agreeable loftiness of her Mein, much more than he had time to do before.
*
She dwelled stot long on the Cbntents of the Letter, but throwing it carelessly down on a Table which stood near her, turn’d to the Count., and with an Accent which exprefs’d not much Satisfadlion; and Was it to yost, my Lord, said Ihe, that Monsieur Frankville ow’d his pre fe vation? I was sh happy, reply’d he, to have some little hand in it, but since I have known how dear he is to you, think my shlf doubly blessed by Fortune for the means of asting asty thing conducive to your Peace: If you imagine that this is so, refum’d she hastily, yost are extremely mistaken, as you will alwaj’^s be, when you believe, where D’elmont ap
F 2 pears,
4
6%   : Or
pears, any other Man Seems worthy the regard of a discerning 'Woman ^ hut, coutinum she, perceiving he look’d furpriz’d, to spare your fofpence, and my self the trouble of repeating what you know alreacbst behold who she is, you. have been talking to, and tell me now, if
Frankville has any Interest: in a Heart to which this Face belongs? with these Words she threw off her Vail, and instead of lessening his Amazement, very much encreas’d it, in discovering the Features of the Lady, with whom he had discoursed the Night before in the Garden t He knew not what to think, or how to reconcile toreafon, that Camil L a, w1io so lately lov’d, and had granted the highest F avou rs to Fra nkville shoustl on a sudden be willing, uncourted, to bestow them on another, nor cou’d he comprehend how the same Person shou’d at once live in two stveral Places, for he conceiv’d the House be was in, was far distant from the Garden which he had been in the Night before.
, ft
%
They both remain’d for slime Moments in a profound Silence, the Lady expecting when the Comit shou’d. speak, and he endeavouring to recollest himself enough to do so, ’till she, at last, possibly guessing at his Thoughts, refum’d her Discourse in this manner : My Lord, said she, wonder not at the Power of Love, a Form like yours mig’it Soften the most rugged Heart, mach
more one, by Nature sh tender as is mine. -- -- --
Think but what you are, continu’d she sighing, and making him sit down by her on the Couch, " 1 and you will easily excuse whatever my Passion
may enforce me to commit. I must consesst
Madam,
  f 6^
Madam, answer’d he ver}r gravely, I never in my Life wanted presence of mind so much as at this junsture, to see before me here, the Person, who, I believ’d, liv’d far from hence, who, by Appointment, I was to wait on this Night at a disterent Place.;;; — ‘to find in the Mistress of my Friend, the very Lady, who seems unworthily to have bestow’d her Heart on me, are Circumstances so Incoherent as I can neither account for, or make evident to Reason, tho’ they are too truly foto Sense: : will be easy, reply’d she, to reconcile both of these seeming Contradictions, when you shall know that the Gardens belonging to this house, are of a very large Extent, and not only that, but the turning of the Streets are sh order’d, as make the Distance between the fore and back Door appear much greater than realy it is and for the other, as I have already told you, you ought to be better acquainted with yourself, than to be furpriz’d at Consequences which must infallibly attend Such Charms, in saying this, she turn’d her Head a little on one stde, andput her Handkerchief before her Face, affesting to seem confus’d at what she spoke;; the Count redned in good Earnest, and with a Countenance which exprefs’d Sentiments, far different from those she endeavour’d to Inspire: Madam, said he, tho’ the good Opinion you have of me is owing entirely to the Error of your Fancy, which too often, especially in your Sex, blinds the Judgement, yet, tis certain, that there are not many Men, ^ whom shell Praises, coming from a Mouth like yours, wou’d not make Happy and Vain; but if I was ever of a Humour to be soit is now
F 3 : wholly
\,
yo   .* Or
wholly mortify’d in me, and ’tis hut with the utmost regret, that I must receive the Favours you confer on me to the prejudice of my Friend: And is that, interrupted she hastily, is that the only Cause?? nothing but your Friendship to Frankville prevent my Wishes? That, of itielf, answerst he, were a shfficient Bar to funder us for ever, but there’s another, if not a greater, a more tender one, which, to restore mu to the Path, which Honour, Gratitude, and Reashn call you to, I must inform you of, yes, I must tell you. Madam, all lovely as you are, that were there no shch Man as frank.ville, in the World. — Were you as free as Air, I have a defence within, which all your Charms can never pierce, nor shftnefs melt -- lain already
bound, not with the weak Ties of Vows or formal Obligations, which confine no farther than the Body, but Inclination! -- the fondest Inclination
! that ever twell’d a Heart with Rapturous Hopes: The i^ady had much ado to contain herself till he had done speaking, she was hy Nature extremely Haughty, Insolent of her Beauty, and impatient of anything she thought look’d like a flight of ist and this open defy ance of her Power, and acknowledging anothm,
« had she been less in Love wou’d have been in
♦
supportable to her •, ungrateful and uncourtly Man, Said she, looking on him with Eyes that sparkled at once with Indignation and Destre, you might have spar’d yourself the trouble of ' Repeating, and me the Confusion of Hearing,
in \viiat manner you stand engag’d, it had been enough to ham told me you never coifd be
. inine, without appearing transported at the Ruin
which,
/
.; f S i
V
 1
which you make; if my too happy Rival post festes Charms, I cannot boast, methinks your good Manners might have taught )?'ou, not to insult my Wants, and your good A attire, to have mingled Phy with your yujiice with these Words she fell a Weeping, but whether they were Tears of Love or Anger, is hard to determine, stis certain that both those palsion s rag’d this Moment in her Soul with equal Violence, and if Ihe had, had it in her Power, wou’d doubtless have been glad to have hated him, but he was, at all times too lovely to suffer a possibility of that, and much more sh at this, for in spite of the Shock, that Infidelity he believ’d her guilty of to Frankville, gave him; he was by Nature so Compassionate, he felt the Woes he saw, or heard of, even of those who were most indifferent to him, and cou’d not now behold a Face, in which all the Horrors of Despair were in the most lively manner represented, without displaying a Tenderness in his, which ill any other Man, might have been taken for, N Love, the dazzling Radience of his Eyes, gave place to a more dangerous, more bewitching Softness, and when he ligh’d, in Pity of her Anguish, a Soul Enchanting Languishment diffus’d itself thro’ all his Air, and added to his Graces; she preshntly perceiv’d it, and forming new Hopes, as well from that, as from his Silence, took hold of his Hand, and preffmg it eagerly to her Bosom, Oh my Lord \ refum’d fly, mu cannot be ungrateful tho’ you wou’d. — I see you cannot — Madam, interrupted he, shaking off as much as possible that show of Tenderness, which he founcl had given her Encouragement;
F 4. I wiffi
I
%
4
  Ocy
A
I wish not to convince you how nearly I ani touch’d, with what you suffer, least it shou’d increase an Esteem, which. Since prejudicial to your Repose, and the Interest of my Friend; I rather ought to endeavour to lejfen. — But, as this is not the Entertainment I expected from Camilla, I beg to know an anfw^er of the Business I came upon, and what you decree for the unfortunate Frankville : If the Lady was agitated with an extremity of Vexation at the comtt’s Declaration of his Passion for another, what was she now, at this Disappointment of the Hopes she was so lately flatter’d with, instead of making any direst reply to what he said, she rag’d, stamp’d, tore her Hair, curs’d Frankville, all Mankind, the World, and in that height of Fury, scarce {par’d Heaven itself; but the violence of her Pride and Resentment being a little vented. Love took his turn, again she wept, again she pressed his Hand, nay she even knelt, and hung upon his Feet, as he wou’d have broke from her, and beg’d him with "Words as eloquent as Wit cou’d Form, and desperate dying Love Suggest, to pity and relieve her Misery; Bstt he had now learn’d to dissemble his Coiicejoi, lest it shou’d a second time be guile her; and after railing her, with as Careless, and urmovtan Air, as he was capable of putting on : My Presence, Madam, said he, but augments your Dishrder, and stis only by feeing you no more, that I am qualify’d to conduce to the recovery of your Peace : With thesh Words he turn’d hastily from her, and was going out of the Room, when she, quick as Thought, sprung from the Place where she hacl stood, and
being •
*
i
'>
 3
being got between him and the Dcor, and throwing herself into his Arms, before he had time to prevent her; you must not, shall not go, lliq cry’d, till you have left me Dead : Par on me. Madam, an fiver’d he fretfully, and st uggling to get loose from her Embrace, to stay after the Discovery you have made of your Sentiments, were to be guilty of an Injustice almost equal to your’s, therefore I beg you’d give me liberty to
pass. -- Hear me but speak, resum’d she, grasping
him yet harder; return but for a Moment,
« — lovely Barbarian, -- -- Hell has no tortures
like your Cruelty. Here, the different Passions working in her Soul, with such uncommon Vehemence, hurry’d her Spirits beyond what Nature cou’d Support; her Voice faulter’d in the Accent, her trembling Hands by Slow degrees relinquish’d what fb eagerly they had held, every Sense forgot its Use, and fly sunk, in all appearance, lifeless on the Floor : The Count was, if possible, more glad to be releas’d, than griev’d at the occasion, and contented himself with calling her Women to her Assistance, without staying
to see when she wou’d recover.
$
H E went out of that House with Thoughts much more dilcompos’d than those with which he had enter’d it, and when he came Home, where Fra nkville impatiently waited his Return, he was at the greatest loss in the World, how to distover his Misfortune to him; the other observing the trouble of his Mind, which was very visible in his Countenance; my Lord, said he, in a melaiicholly Tone, I need lot ask you what Success, the gloom which appears
 ! Off
pearson your Brow, tells me, my ill Fortune has deny a you the means of speaking to Camil L a; accuse not Fortune, answer’d D’elmont, but the influence of malicious Stars whichfeldom, if ever, suits our Dispositions to our Circumstances, I have feencatyiilla, have talk’d to her, and ’tis from that Discourse that I cannot forbear refiefting on the miseries of Humanity, which, while it mocks us whh ^ fh^w of Reason, gives us no power to curb our Will, and guide the erring Appetites to Peace. mon ystwr Frankville at these Words first felt a jealous Pang, and as ’tis natural to believe everybody admires what we do, he presently imagin’d Count D’elmont had forgot Melliora in the presence of Camilla, and that it was from the Consciousness of his own Weakness and Inconstancy, that he spoke so feelingly : I wonder not my Lord, said he coldly, that the Beauties of Camilla fhou’d inspire you with Sentiments, which, perhaps, for many Reashns, you wou’d de sste to be free from, ' and I ought, in Prudence, to have confider’d, that tho’ you 'are the most excellent of your Kind, you are still a Man, and have the Paistons incident to Man, and not have expos’d you to those Dangers the sight of C a MIL LA must neceslarily involve yon in : Iwifti to Heaven, answer’d the Count, easily guessing what his Thoughts were, no greater threatened you, and that you cou’d think on Camilla with the same indifference as I can, or she, of me with more; then, in as brief a manner as he cou’d, he gave him the Substance of what had happen’d. Frankville, whose only Fault
was rashness, grew almost wild at the Recital of
^ * foi

C
 ^
lo unexpcsted a Misfortune, he knew not for a good while what to believe, loath he was to fuspest the cou7tt, but leather to fufpest Camilla, yet flew into extremities of Rage against: both, by turns: The Count pityed^. and forgave all that the violence of his Pallion inade him utter, but offer’d not to argue with him, still he found him capable of admitting his Reasons, and then, that open Sincerity, that honest noble Afliirance which always accompany’d his Sweetness, and made it difficult to doubt the Truth of anything he said, won the dishrder’d Lover to an entire Convistion; he now concludes his Mistress false, repents the tenderness he has had for her, and tho’ she still appears as lovely to his Fancy as ever, she grows odiou? to his Judgement, and resolves to use his utmost Efforts to banish her Idea from his Heart.
IN this Humour he took leave of the Count, it growing late, and his last Nights Adventure, taught him the danger of Nocturnal Walks, but how he spent his time till Morning, those can only guess, who have loved like him, and like him, met so cruel a Disappointment.
p
The Count pass’d not the Night in much less inquietudethan Frankville, he griev’d the powerful Influence of his own Attradtions, and had there not been a Melliora in the World, he wou’d have wish’d himself deform’d, rather than have been the Cause of sh much Misery, as his Loveliness produc’d.
The
- i
ft
f
f ^
J
5
j   I Or
The next Morning the Count defign’d tq visit Frankville, to strengthen him in hss Reshlution of abandoning all Thoughts of the unconstant Camilla, but before he cou’d get dressed, the other came into his Chamber: My • Lord, said he, astbon as they were alone, my
perfidious Mistress, failing to make a Conquest of your Heart, is still willing to preserve that she had attain’d over mine, but all her Charms and her Delusions are but vain, and to prove to your Lordship that they are foi have brought the Letter I received from her, sharce an Hour past, and the true Copy of my Answer to it.'
To Monsieur Fra nkvill e.
THO’ nothing proves the value of our Presence, so much as the Pangs our absence occafons, ani in my laf: I rafily wijlfd you tnight be fenfble of mine, yet on examining my Heart, I presently recall’d the hafy Prayer, and found I lov’d with that extravagance of Tettdernefs, that I had rather you return’d it too .little than too ?nucd. and methinks con’d better bearto represent you to tny Fancy, careless and calm as common Lovers are, than thhik, I saw you. Burning, — Bleeding. — Dying, like me, with hopeleji Wifies, aid iinavailhtg Expectations;; Ah! I fear such Apprehenjions are but too unnecessary- -- think not of me, and, if in those happy
days, when no cross Accident interveen d to part me from your Sight, my Fondneji pleased, you now find nothing in Camilla worth a troubled
K ' Thought,
• »
V
I
S
  fj
Thought, nor breath one tender Jigh in memory of our Transports paji. — — If I wrong your hove, impute it to difrad.ion, for Oh! ’tis sure I am iot in my Senses, tor know to form one regular Deffipp .* J fd, and speak, and think, a thousand iniohbfent things, a7td tho’ I cannot forbear Writing toyou, I write in such a manner, so wild, so different frojn what I wou’d, that I repent me of the Folly I am guilty of, even while lam committing it -, but to make as good a Defence as I am able for these, perhaps, unwelcome Lines, I must inform you that they come not so much to let you know my Sentiments, as to engage adifcovery of yours: Ciamara has Hfchargd one of her Servants from her Attendance, ^ who no longer courting her Favour, or regarding her Frowns, I have prevail’d upon, not only to bring this to you, but to convey an Answer back to me, by the help of a String which I am to let down to him from my Window, therefore, if you a?'e but as Kind, as he has promis’d to be Faithful, we may often ejtjoy the Blejjing of this disant Conversation, Heaven only knows when we fall be permitted to enjoy a nearer. Cittolini is this Evening return d from his Yilla^ and noting but a Miracle can save me from the necejjity of making my Choice of him, or a Monafiery, either of which is worse than Death, since it 7nufi leave me the Power to wifij, but take away the means, of being what I so oft have swore to be
Eternally Yours, and,
^5 r‘
Yours alone,
Camil L a.
V
, >
\ The
T 4'
p ^
■**..
/
♦
  : Or
i
The Coiint cbu’d not forbear lifting up his Eves and Hands in token of Amazement, at the unexainpled Falsehood this Woman appeared guilt^of, but perceiving Frankvil
LE was About to read the following Answer' ' not Interrupt him, by asking any questi ions still he had done.
i -
To Camilla.
ft
IF Vows are any confiraint to an Inclination fij addicted to Liberty as Tours, I fiall make 710 difficulty to release you, of all you ever made to me / tes Madam, you are free to difpdfc both of your Heart and Person mhetrfoever oit think fit, nor do I desire you jj)ou’d give your self the pains of farther Dissimulation. I pay too entire an Obedience to yotir Will, then to continue in a Passion iithich is no longo^ pleasing, nor will hy an ill tim’d and Unmannerly Con fancy dijhirb the serenity of your futtire Enjoyments with any happier Man than
frankville.
You see, my Lord, said he with a sigh, that I have put it out of her Power to Triumph over m' Weakness, for I confess my Heart still wears her Chains, but e’er my Eyes or Tongue betray to her the shameful Bondage, these Hands shoust tear them out *, therefore I made no mention of her Behaviour to you, nor of my Sending anf
C ' Letter
/ - '
 9
t
Letter by you, not only because I knew not if your Lordship wou’d think it proper, but lest Ihe ssiou’d imagine my Resentment proceeded from Jealousy, and that I lov’d her still. —
No, me shall ne’er have Cause to guess the
truth of what I shffer. -- Her real perfidy shall
be repaid with seeming Inconstancy and Scorn. —
Oh 1 how ’twill sting her Pride, -- By Heaven,
I feel a gloomy kind of Pleasure in thethought, and will indulge it, even to the highest insults of Revenge.
I Rather wish, reply’d the Count, you cou’d in earnefi be indifferent, than only felgjt to be So, her unexampled Levity and Deceit, renders her as unworthy of your Anger as your Love, and there is too much Danger while you preserve the one, that you will not be able to throw off the other. - — Oh! I pretend not to it, cry’d Frankv ille, interrupting him, she has,
too deep a root witnin my Soul ever to be remov’d — I boast no more than a concealment of my Passion, and when I dress the horrors of a bleeding, breaking Heart, in all the calm of cold Tranquillity; methinks, you shou’d applaud the Noble Conquest : Time, said the Count, after a little Pause, and a just Ressestion how little she deserves your Thoughts, will teach you to obtain a Nobler ♦, that of numbring your Love, among things that were, but are no more, and make you, ' with me, acknowledge that stis as great an argument of Folly and meamiefs of Spirit to continue the same Esteem when the Objest ceales to deserve, which we profess’d before the discovery of that unworthyness, as it
wou’d
<
^ '
%
'., a '
8  : Or.
^ ^ w 4
wou’d be of viuany and Tnconjiancy of Mind, to change, without an Efficient Cause: A great deal of Discourse. pass’d between them to the lame Effect, and it was but in vain that Count D’elmont endeavour to persuade him to a real. forgetfulness of the Charmer tho’ he re iblv’d to seem as if he did Po,
>
While they were disputing, one of D’el
mosttss Servans gave hiip a Letter, which, he told him, the Person who brought it, defir’d he wou’d answer immediately; he no Sooner broke it open, and had cast: his Eye over it, than he cry’d out in a kind of Transport, Oh, Frankville, what has Fate been doing! You are Happy. -- -- CA MIL L A is Iniioceiit, and perhaps
the most deserving of her Sex; I only ani Guilty, who, by a fatal Mistake have wrong’d her Virtue and Tormented you; but Read, continu’d he, giving him the Letter, Read, and Satisfy your self
%
SIEUR Erankv ille wa too much
astonish’d .at these Words to be able to make any reply, but immediately found the Inter pretaticn of them in these Lines.
TO
t
 1
i
; I
.■ * • '
To the dear cruel Destroyer of my
Qiiiet, the never too much admir’d Count
D’elmont.
ft «
TIS no longer the Mifirefs of your Friend, a perjufd and mjufi Camilla, who languifi) es and dyes by your Contempt, but one, whom all the darts of Love had firove in vain to reach, ’tillfrom your Charms they gain’d a godlike Influence, and un erring Force! One, who tho’ a Widow, brings yon the Offering of a Virgin Heart.
I
AS I was sitting in my Closet, watchhtg the prof grefs of the lazy Hours, which flew not half so swift as my Desires to bring on the appointed time in which you promised to be with me in the Garden *, sny Woman came running in, to acquaint me, that you were in the House, and waited to speak with Camilla : Surprise, and j ealoufy at once A [faulted me, and I sunk beneath the Apprehension that you might by some Accident have seen her, and also loved her to ease my self of those tormenting Doubts I refold’d to appear before you, in her fie ad, and kept my Vail over my Face, ’till I found that hers was uji known to you: — Tou are not Ignorant what follow’d,, the Deceit passed upojt you jor Truth, but I was sufficiently punififd for it, by the severity of youf Usage: : was going to discover who I ivas, when the violence of my Love, my Grief, and ?ny Despair threw me into that Swoon, in which, to complete your Cruelty, you left me; ’twoii’d be endless to endeavour to represent the Agonies of ?ny Soul, when I recovered, and heard you were gone, hut all who
G truly
V
8   : c
truly Love, as they fear much, so they hope much, fny Tortures at length abated, at leas, permitted me to take some intervals of Comfort, and I began to fatter my self that the pajjioh yon feem’d transported with, for a natnelefs Mifirefs, was but a feint to bring me hack to him you thought I was oblig’d to Love, and that there was a possibility, that my Person and Fortune might not appear despicable to you, when you jltoii d know, I have notyes hut those of Inclination, which can be only yours while Lam
Ciamara.
P. S. ifyon find nothing in me worthy of your Love, my suffietkigs are such, as jufily may deserve your Pity ^ either relieve or put an end to them I conjure you — Free me from the ling’ring Death of Doubt, at once decree my Fate, for, like a God, you rule my very Will, nor dare. I, without your Leave, throw offi this wretched Being Oh then, permit me once more to behold you, to try, at leafi, to warm you into Kittdefs with my Sighs, to melt you
with ?ny Tears, -- - to sooth you into foftjtefs by a
thousand yet undifcovepd Fondneffes — and, if all sail, to dye before your Eyes.
Those who have experienc’d the force of Love, need not to be inform’d what Joy, what Transport fwell’d the Heart of Monsieur Frankville, at this unexpected Eclairciffment of his dear C a m i L L a’s Innocence; when everything concurs to make our Woes seem real, when Hopes are dead, and even Desire is hush’d by the
loud Clamours of Despair and Rage, then, -- -- -- -- --
then, to be recall’d to Life, to Light, to Heaven
and
P
I
t
I
The Fatal Enquirss 85
and Love again, is such a torrent df oste powering Happiness' ' a surcharge of Ecstasy, as Sense can hardly beat.
What now would Frankville not have given that it had been in his Power to have recall’d tjie last Letter he sent to Camilla? his Soul fevereiy reproach’d him for sh easily believing She cou’d be False; tho’ his Experience of the Lweetnefs of her Disposition, made him not doiibt of a Pardon from her, when she shou’d come to know what had been the Reason of his Jealousy;; impatience to see her, immediately put it into his Head, that as (Ciamara had been the occasion of the inif understanding between them, Giamara shight Likewise be made the property to fet all rig’ t again; to this end, he entreated the Count to write her an answer of Complyance, and a promise to come to her the next Day, in which Visit, he wou’d, in a Disguise attend him, and being once got into the Housh, he thought it woii’d be no difficulty to steal tb camilla’s Apartment
\
\.
tj T he foiind it not sh easy a Task as he imagin’d, to persuade Count d.dlmont to come into this Design, his generous Heart, averse to all Deceit, thought it base arid unmanly to abuse with Dissimulation the real tenderness this Lady had for him, and tho’ press’d by the Brother of Melliora, and conjur’d to it, even by ihe Love he profess’d for her, it was with all the reluctance in the World, that he, at last, contented, and his Servant came several times into the Room to remind him that the Person who brought
G 2 the
\
V
8  : Ori
^
the Letter, waited impatiently for an Answer, before he cou’d bring himself into a Humour to write in the manner Monjieur Frankville de fir’d; and tho’, scarce any Man ever had so sparkling a Fancy, such a readiness of Thought, or aptitude of Expression, when the dictates of his Soul, were the Employment of his Tongue or Pen,, yet he now found fiimfelf at a loss for Words, and he wasted more time in these few Lines, than a Thousand times as many on any other Subject wou’d have cost him.
■ 1
To the Beautiful and Obliging
Ciamara.
Madam,
IF I did not Jin againji 'Truth when I affupd you that I had a Mifirefs to whom I was engag’d by jnclinauon, I certainly did, when I appear’d guilty of a harfimefs which was never in my Nature f the
\ you do me in believing the Interefi oi my Friend was thegreatefi motive for my seeming unkindness!! not the Power sufficiently to acknowledge, but, copd you look into my Soul, you wopd there, find the ejfied.s of your Ittfpiration, something so tetider, and so grateful, as only favours, fitch as you confer, eop d merit or create.
I design ’0 make my self happy in waiting on you to Morrow night about Eleven, if you will order me admittance at that back gate, which was the Place
of
f
i ^
\
%
 5
'.
of our first Appointment, ’till thesi, I am the lovely
C I A M A K Ass
Moss: Devoted Servant
D’E L M O N T
a
'i
P. S. There are some Reasons why I think it Slot safe to come alone, therefore beg yopu persnit mf to bring a Servant with tne, on whose secrecy I dare rely,
)
*
When she Count had sent away this little Billet, Monsieur Frankville grew very gay on the hopes of his Design succeeding;; laughing, my Lord said he, I question whether Melliora wou’d forgive me, for engaging you in
this Affair; Ciamara is extremely handfonie, has Wit, and wshere she attempts to Charm, has doubtless, a thousand Artifices to obtain her Wish; the Count was not in a ternper to relish his Raillery, he had a great deal of Compaffioil for Ciamara, and thought himself inexcusable for deceiving her, and all that Frankville cou’d do to difipate the Gloom that refiestion spread about him, was but vain.
;
They spent the greatest part of this Day together, as they had done the former *, and .when the time came that Frankville thought it proper to take Leave, it was with a much more Cheerful Heart, than he had the Night before; but his Happiness was not yet secure, and ill a few Hours he found a considerable alteration in his Condition. ^
G 3 As
L /
#
\
Si L ove in Excess : Ocy
/
A s soon as it was dark enough for Camilla to let down her String to the Fellow whom file had order’d to wait for it, he receiv’d another Letter fasten’d to it, and finding it was di restted as the other, for Monjieur Frankville, he immediately brought it to him.
IT was with a mixture of Fear and Joy, that the iinpatient Lover broke it open, but both those Passions gave Place to an adequate Despair, when having un feal’d it, he read these Lines.
» ' ' i'
To Monsieur FRANKVILLE.
1
I HAVE leen already so smich deceiv’d, that I ought not to boafi of any skill in the Art of Divination, yet, I fancy, ’tis in my Power to forma jufcr Guess than I have done, what the Sentiments
of your Heart will he when you ftfi open this -- -
Methhiks, I see you pup on a fcornjul Smile, resolving to be jhll immov’d, either at Uphraidhgs or Complaints, for to do one of these, I am fatisfed, you imaghte is the reason of my troubling you with a Letter: But Sir, I am not altogether fly estough to believe the tenderejl Supplications the mofi humble of my Sex cou’d make, has efficacy to refiore Desire, once Dead, to Life *, or if it cou’d, : 1 am swt so meast Spirited as to accept a return thus caufd; mr wou’d it be less isnpertinent to Reproach, to tell
you that you are perjur’d bafe -- Ustgrateful,
is what you kstow already, unless your Memory is so
Complaifani
^  7
V
Complmfant as swt to remind you of either Vows or Obligations : But, to affure you, that I refleb: on this sudden Chastge of yotir Humour without being fir’d with Rage, or Jhtpify d with Grief, is perhaps,
what you leaf expect- -- -- -- - fi range as it may
seem, it is snofi certam, that jbe, whom you have found the Softefi, Fondefi, Tenderefi oj her Kind, is in a snoment grown the mofi Indifferent, for ist spite oj your Incosifancy, I stever fisall deny that I have lov’d you,. .^lov’d you, even to Dotage, sny Fafiion took birth long before I hstew you had a thought of feignisig one for me, which frees sne from that Imputation Women too frequently deserve, of loving for no other reason than because they are beloved, for ij you ne’er had feem’d to love, I fisopd have cositinud to do foist. Reality. I fousid a thousand Charms in your Person and Conversation, and believ’d your Soul no less tranfcendistg all others in excellent Qualities, than I fiill confess your Forsn to he in Beauty; I drejl you up in vain imagination, adorn’d with all the Ornaments of Truth, Hoswur, good Nature, Generosity, and every Grace that raise snortal perfed.ion to the highefi pitch, and al
mofi reach Divinity, -- -- hut you have taken care to
prove your self, sneer Man, to like, dijlike, astd wifi you know siot what, nor why! If I never had any Merits, how came you to think me worthy the paisis you have taken to engage sne? and ij' I had,
how am I so fiiddenly depriv’d oj them? -- -- -- No, I
am Jim the same, and the ostly reason I appear swt foto you, is, that you behold me mw, no snore, with Lover s Eyes; the few Charsns, I asn Mifirefs of, look’d lovely at a difiance, but lose their Liifire, when approaa d too near; your Ehncy threw a guttejistg Burnifi} o’re me, which jfee Poffefiiosi has worn off
G 4 and
N
V
V
s : Or
and now, the Woman only Jiands expos’d to View, mid I costfefs I jiijily suffer for the guilty Folly of lelieving that, in your Sex, Ardors cou d survive est joyment, or if they cou’d, that such a Miracle was referv’d for me hut thank Heaven my Punishment is paji, the Pastgs, the tortures of my bleeding Heart, hi tearing your Idea thestce, already are 710 snore! The fiery Trial is over, asid I am now ar 7nv’d at the Elizium of perfect. Peace, entirely un 77iolefied hy any warring Paffon; the Fears, the Hopes, the yealoufies, asid all the endless Traist of Cares which waited on my hours of Love and fostd Delusion, serve but to endear re gam’d Tranquillity, and I cast cooly Scorn, not hate your Faljlwod •, and tho’ it is a Maxim very mud) in use amosig the wo snesi of ssty Country, that, not to Revenge, were to deserve ill usage, yet lam sofar from having a. siijj) that way, that I shall always cfieem your Virtues, and while I pardon, pity your Infirmities; stall praise your flowisig Wit, without an Indignant reniesnbrasice how oft it has been employ’d for my jindoistg fisall ackmwledge the brightness of your Eyes, and not ist secret Curse the borrow’d fojtsiefs Af their Glances, jlsajl thisik on all your pajl en iddarmesits, your Sighs, your Pows, your jneltisig Lisses, and the warsn Fury of your fierce Embraces, hut as a pleasing Dream, while Reafost fiept, astd - wifi) not to renew at such a Price,
I
I
% V
; - * •
I DESIRE 710 Answer to this, nor to be
thought of snore, go ost isi the fasne Course you have, began. Change ’till you are tir’d with Roving, fiill ft your Eyes 1stc'hasit, your Tongue Delude, and
Oaths
« ft
I
t - (. ■ ■ ■
'I
'I
t
I
I
i
 9
\
Oaths Betray, and all who look, who lijlen, and lelteve, he ruin’d and forsaken like
/
Camilla.’
ft
ft
.ft
The calm and resolute Resentment wiiich appear’d in the style of this Letter, gave Frankville very just grounds to fear, it would he no Small difficulty to obtain a Pardon for what he kd so rashly written; but when he reflested on the Seeming Reasons, which mov’d him to it, and that he fhou’d have an opportunity to let her know them, he was not, altogether Inconsolable, he pafs’d the Night however in a world of Anxiety, and as soon as Morning came, hurried away, to communicate to the Count thisfresh occasion of his Trouble.
IT was now d’elmontst turn to Railly, and he laugh’d as much at those Fears, which he im maginst Causeless, as the other had done, at the assignation he had persuaded him to make with Ciamara, but, tho’ as most of his Sex are, he has pretty much of the count’s Opinion, yet, the re instating himself in camilla’s esteem, ivas a Matter of too great Importance to him, to Suffer him to take one Moment east ’till he ras perfectly affur’d of it.
I
A T last, the wish’d for Hour arriv’d, and le, difguis’d sh as it was imposhble for him to be blown, attended the Count to that dear Wicket which had so often given him entrance to Camilla; they waited not long for Admittance,
Brione was ready there to receive them; the
sight '
;
J
;
;
jg Love in Excejs: Ovy
sight of her, inflam’d the Heart of Monjieur, Frank VILLE with all the Indignation immagi nable, for he knew her to be the Woman, who,; by her Treachery to Camilla, had gain’d the ] Confidence of Ciamara, and involv’d him in all the Misery? he had endur’d; but he contain’d \ himself, still she taking the Count by the Hand,; in order to lead him to her Lady, bad him wait her return, which she told him fliou’d be immediately, an an outer Room which She pointed him to.
I N the mean time she conduced the Count to the Door of that magnificent Chamber, where he had been receiv’d by the shppos’d Camilla, mid where he now beheld the real Ciamara', (dressed, if'possible, richer than she was the Night before, but loose as wanton Fancy cou’d invent; she was lying oii the Couch when he enter’d, and affecting to seem as if she wa not presently sensible of his being there, role not to receive him till he was very near her they both kept silence for some Moments, she, waiting till he shou’d speak, and he, possibly, prevented by the uncertainty after what manner he shou’d form his Address, sh as to keep an equal Medium between the two extremes, of being Cruel, or too Kind, till at last the violence of her impatient Expectation burst out in these Words, — ■ ph that this silence were the effect of Love! — and then perceiving he made no Answer;; me, continu’d file, am I forgiven for thus intruding on your Fity for a Grant, which incunch tion would not have allow’d me? Cease Madam, reply’d he, to increase that Confusion which a
just
  gi
iuft Sense of your Favours, and my own Ingratitude has caff me in : How can you look with Eyes sh tender and sh kind, on him who irings you nothing in return > rather despise me, iate me, drive me from your Sight, believe me islam, unworthy of your Love, nor squander )n a Bankrupt Wretch the noble Treasure: : [nliumaii! interrupted she, has then that mi hefs of whose Charms you boasted, engross’d all ioiir stock of Tenderness? and have you nothing lothing to repay me for all this waste of fond iess, _ this lavish prodigality of Pashon, which orces me beyond my Sexes Pride, or my own latural Modesty, to Sue, to Court, to kneel nd weep for Pity : Pity, reshm’d the Count iou’d be a poor reward for Love like yours, and et alas!! he Sighing, stis all I have 0 give; I have already told you, I am tied by rows, by Honour, Inclination, to another, who ho’ far absent hence, I still preshrve the dear emembrance of! My Fate will shon recall me ack to her, and Paris; yours fixes you at Rome, nd since yye are doom’d to be for ever shparated, t wou’d be base to Cheat you with a vain pre srice, and lull you with Hopes pleasing Dreams while, when you must: quickly wake to added hrtures, and redoubled Woe : Heavens, cry’d be, with an Air full of Resentment, are tnen, ay Charms sh mean, my Darts so weak, that lear, they cannot intercept thosh, shot at such distance > and are yoii that dull, cold plato list, which can prefer the visionary Pleasures of n ab/ent Mistress, to the warm Transports of he shbstantial present; The Count was pretty
auch furpriz’d at these Words, coining from the
•. Mouth
. ••
/
<»
s
92.  i
V
''■ 1. ^
Mouth of a Woman of Honour, and began now 1 to perceive what her Aim was, but willing to be i more confirm’d. Madam, said he, I dare not J
hope your Virtue wou’d permit. -- -- -- -- -- Is this a 1
time (Interrupted she, looking on him ’ with | Eyes which Sparkled with wild Desires, and left ] no want of further Etplanation of her meaning). Is this an Hour to preach of Virtue? — Married,, ] — betroth’d, — — engag’d by Love or Law, what hinders but this Moment you may be mine, thi§ Moment, well improv’d, might give us Joys to baffle a whole Age of Woe; make us, at once, forget our Troubles past, and by its sweet remembrance, shorn those to come; in speaking these Words, she sunk fijpinely on D’el m 0 N t’s Breast; but though' he was not sh ill nar tur’d, and unmannerly as to repel her, this sort of Treatment made him losh all the Esteem, and great part of the Pity he had conceiv’d for her.
t * ’
t
• 0
I
T H E Woes of Love are only worthy Commiseration, according to their Causes;; tho’ all those kinds of Desire, which the disterence of Sex creates, bear in geiieral, the name of Love, yet they are as vastly wide as Heaven and Hell; that Passion which aims chiefly at Enjoyment, in Enjoyment ends, the fleeting Pleasure is no more remembered, but ail the
. r. 7, ■ (
stings of Guilt and Shame remain; but that, where the interiour Beauties are consulted, and Souls are Devotees, is truly Noble, Love, there is a Divinity indeed, because he is immortal and unchangeable, and if our earthy part partake the Bliss, and craving Nature is in all obey’d;
Poffelfioii
e
: \

4f ^
poiiestion thus dessred, and thus obtain’d, is far from Satiating, Reajon is not here debas’d to lm[e, hut' Sense elevates itself to Reason, the
different Powers unite, and become pure alike.
^ • »
f
T
It was plain that the Pastion with which Ciamara was animated, sprung not from this last Source *, she had seen the Charming Count, was taken with his Beauty, and wished no farther than to postefs his lovely Person, his Mijtd was the least of her Thoughts, for had she the least Ambition to reign there, she wou’d not late so meanly shught to obtain the one, after k had assured her, the other, far more noble lart of him was difpos’d of. The Grief he had leen in, that it was not in his power to return lier Pashon, while he believ’d it meritorious, was now chang’d to the utmost Contempt, and /
lier (ijiiality, and the State she liv’d in, did not iiinder him from regarding of her, in as indiffer '
ent a manner, as he wou’d have done a common
iiourtizast.
, t
\
Lost to all Sense of Honour, Pride or Skme, and wild to gratify her furious Wishes, lie spoke, without reserve, all they Suggested 0 her, and lying on his Breast, beheld, without : oiicern, her Robes fly open, and all the Beauties ifher own expos’d, and naked to his View: fed at his infensibility, at last she grew more loid, she kifs’d his Eyes, -- — his Lips, a thou bid times, then press’d him in her Arms with
Irenuous Embraces, -- -- -- -- and Snatching his Hand
nd putting it to her Heart, wshich fiercely bounded
y ft
/
  : c
ed at his Touch, bid him be witness of his mighty | Influence there.
THo’ it was imposhble for any Soul to be capable of a greater, or more constant Passion than his felt for Melliora, tho’no Man that ever liv’d, was less addicted to loose Desires— — fine, tho’ he realy was, asf ^ankv ille had told him, the most excellent of his Kind, yet, he was still a Man! and, ’tis not to be thought strange, is to the force of such united Temptations, nature and Modesty a little yielded; warm’d with her fires, and, perhaps, more' mov’d by Curiosity, her Behaviopr having extinguish st all his respect, he gave his Hands and Eyes a full Enjoyment of all those Charms, which had they been answer’d by a Mind worthy of them, might justly have infpir’d the highest Raptures, While she, unshock’d, and unresisting. suffer’d all he did, and urg’d him with' all the Arts fly was Mistress of, to more, audit is not altogether improbable, that he might not entirely have forgot himself, if a sudden Interruption had not restor’d his Reashn to the con ixderation of the Business which had brought him here.
9
. I
MONSIEUR Frankville had all this
time been employ’d in a far different manner of Entertainment; Brione came to him, accordl ing to her promish, aflbon as she had introduc’d the Count to Ciamara, and having been' commanded by that Lady to discourse with the sup posed Servant, and get what she coil’d out of him, of the count’s Affairs, she sat down and
began
/
i
V
I
I
The patalenqniirss
I ft
began to talk to him with a great deal of free b lorn; but he, who Was too iiiipatient to lost much time, told her he had a Secret to discover, if the place they were in was private enough to prevent his being over heard, and she assuring liin that it was, he immediately difcover’d who le was, and clap’d a Pistol to her Breast, swearing that Moment shou’d be the last of her Life, if she made the least Noise, or attempted to in: ercept his passage to Camilla : The terror he was in, made her fall on her knees, and con uring him to spare her Life, beg’d a thousand ^ardons for her Infidelity, which she told hint vas not occafion’d by any particular Malice to lim; but not being willing to leave Rome her elf, the fear of being expos’d to the revenge of liamara and cittolini, wheii they shou’d ind out that she she had been the Instrument of 1a M IL L a’s Estape, prevail’d upon her timer )us Soul to that Discovery, which was the only neans to prevent what she so much dreaded: Frankville contented himself with venting lis Resentment in two or three hearty Cursts, ind taking her roughly by the Arm, bid her go i^ithhim to camilla’s Apartment, and dish : over before her what she knew of ciamara’s hitertaining Count D’elmont in her Name, rhich she trembling promis’d to obey, and they )oth went up a pair of back Stairs which led a )rivate way to camilla’s Chamber, when hey enter’d, she was sitting in her night Dress >11 the bed fide, and the unexpested sight of kione, who, till now, had never ventured to ippear besore her. Since her Infidelity, and a dan with her whom she thought a Stranger,
fill’d'
«
\
9 6 lfove in Excess : Or
1
\ '
liird her with fiich a surprise, that it depriv’d her of her Speech, and gave Frankville time to throw off his Disguise, and catch her in his Arms with all the Transports of unfeign’d i affedhon, before She cou’d enough recover herself to make any resistance, but when she did, ' it was with all the Violence imaginable, and in deavouring to tear herself away; Villain, said she, comest thou again to triumph o’re myweak,
ness, -- -- again to Cheat me into fond Belief?
There needed no more to make this obsequious, j Lover relinquish his Hold, and falling at her ^ Feet, was beginning to speak something in his Vindication, when she, quite lost in Rage, prevented him, by renewing her Reproaches in this manner; have you not given me up my Vows? reshm’d she, have you not abandon a me to
Ruin, -- -- to death, -- -- -- to Infamy, -- -- -- to all
the Stings of felf accufing Conscience and Remorse?? come you now, by your detested
Presence, to alarm Remembrance, and new
^, »
my Tortures? — That woman’s Treachery, continu’d she, lorjking on brionei, I freely
Pardon, since by that little Absence it occafion’^
I have discovered the wavering disposition of your Soul, and learn’d to shorn what is below my Anger. Here me but speak, cry’d Frankville, or if you doubt my Truth, as I confess you have almighty Caush, let her inform you, what seeming Reasons, what Provocations urg’d
iny hasty Rage to write that Satal, -- -- that accursed
Letter. I will hear nothing, reply’d
Camilla, neither from you nor her, -- -- -- -- I see
the base Design, and shorn to join in the Deceit, — V You have had no Cause— — - even
^ Ji
the
»
  p7
the least Pretence for your Incontinency but one, which, tho’ you are guilty of, you all Diff own, and that is, being lov’d too well. — I lavish’d all the fondness of my Soul, and you, unable to reward, defpiz’d it: — But think not that the rage, you now behold me in, proceeds
from my Despair- -- -- your Inconstancy is the
Fault of Nature, a Vice which all your Sex are prone to, and ’tiswe, the fond believers only are to blame, that I forgave, my Letter told you that I did — But thus to Come — Thus Insolent in Imagination, to dare to Hope I were that mean foul’d Wretch, whose easy Tameness, and whose doting Love, with Joy would welcome your return, Clasp you again in my deluded Arms, and swear you were as dear as Ever, is shch an afront to my Understanding, as merits the whole Fury of Revenge; as she spoke these words, she turn’d Disdainfully from him with a Reshlution to leave the Room, but she could not make Such hast to go away as the dispairing, the distrasted Frankville did to prevent her, and catching hold of her Garments, stay Madam, said He wildly, either permit me to clear myself of this barbarous Accusation, or, if you are refolv’d, I) nhearing, to Condemn me, behold me, satiate all your Rage can wish, for by Heaven, continued he, holding the Pistol to his own Breast, as he had done a little before to brione’s, by dll the Joys I have Postest, by all the Hell I now Endure, this Moment i’ll be receiv’d y our Lover, ot expire your Martyr. These words pronounc’d sh passionately, and the action that acompany’d them made a visible alteration in Cam illa’s Countenance, but it lasted not long, and Refuining
H her
jis l07/c in Excess : Or
her fierceness; jour Deaths or j’d she, this way would give me little Satisfastion, the World would fudge more Nobly of my Resentment, if by
my Hand you sell -- Yet, Continust she, fiiatch
ing the Pistol from him, and throwing it out of the Window, which happen’d to be open, I will not — cannot be the Executioner. — No, Live! and let thy Punishment be, in Reality to endure what thou well Bijfembleji, the Pangs, the racking Pangs of hopeless, endless Love l— — thbu isideed Love Me, as thou a thousand Times, hast falsely ssvorn, — r for ever Love, and I, for ever Hate! In this last Sentence, she stew like Lightning to her Closet, and shut her self in,, I; easing the amaz’d Lover still on his Knees, stupisy’d with (rief and Wonder, all this while' Briqne had been casting about in her Mind, how to make the best use of this Adventure, with C IA M A R A, and encourag’d by
camilla’s behaviour, and taking advantage of frankville’s Confusion, made but one Step to the Chamber Door, and running out into the
Gallery, and downstairs, cry’d Murder, Help,
a Rape — Help, or Donna Camilla will be carry’d away. — She had no occasion to call often, for the Pistol which Camilla threw out of the Window chanc’d to go off in the fall, and the report it made, had alarm’d some of the Servaista who were in an out House adjoining to the Garden, and imagining there were Theives, were ga tliering to Search, slime arm’d with Staffs, slime with Iron Bars, or anything they could get in the Hurry they were in, as they were running confusedly about, they met Mostjieur Frankville j3urfuing Brione, with a design to stop her
Mouth
/
9
The Fatdl Inquiry.
t
Mouth, either by Theatnings or Bribes, but she was too nimble for him, and knowing the way of the House much better than he did, went di restly to the Robin Where C i A U At X was, Carreffing the Count in the manner already mentioivd : Oh Madam, Said She, you are impos’d on, the ccuistt has deceiv’d your expesta tions, and brought Monjieur frankville ill Disguise to rob you of Camilla. These word made them both, tho’ with very different Sentiments, start from the posture they were in, and Ciamara changing her Air of Tenderness for one alt Fury, Monster! cry’d she to D’elmont4 have you then betray’d me > This is no time, ^ reply’d he, heating a great Bustle, and frank vill’s Voice pretty loud without, for me to answer you, my Honour chills me to my friend’s ashstance; and drawing his Sword, run as the
noise dirested him to the Place where Frank
-
VILLE Was defending himself against a little Army of ciamara’s Servants, she Was not rnuch behind him, and enrag’d to the highest degree, cry’d but, kill, kill them both! but that Was not a Task for a much greater Niimber of such as them to Accomplish, and tho’ their Weapons might easily have beat down, ' or broke the Gentlemens Sword; yet their Fears kept from coming too near, and C i a Si a r a had the itexation to see them both Retreat with Safety and her self Disappointed as well in her Revenge, as in her Love.
Noth irig cou’d be fhbfefurpriz’d^ thah coi 1)’el MONT was, when ce got Home, and heard
from Frankville all that had pafs’d betweeii
H 2 hlrri
p
I
ICO   : Or
him and Camilla, nor was his Trouble less, that he had it not in his Power to give him a'nv Advice in any Exigence fb uncommon : He did, all he cou’d to comsort and divert his Sorrows, but in vain, the wounds of bleeding Love admit no Ease, but from the Hand which gave them and he, who was naturally rash and fiery, now grew to that height of Defparation and violence of Temper, that the Count fear’d some fatal Catastrophe, and wou’d not suffer him to stir from him that Night, nor the next Day, till he had oblig’d him to make a Vow, and bind it with the most shlemn Imprecations, not to oster anything against his Life.
But, tho’ plung’d into the lowest depth of misery, and Lost, to all Human propability, in an inextricable Labyrinth of "Woe, Fortune will find, at last. Some way to raise, and disentangle those, whom she is pleas’d to make her Favourites, and that Monsieur fra.nkville was ' one, an unexpected Adventure made him know.
i
>
The third Day from that, in which he had seen Camilla, as he was sitting in his Chamber, in a melaiicholly Conversation with the Count, who was then come to Visit him, his Servant brought him a Letter, which he laid had been just left, by a Woman of an extraordinary Appearance, and who the Moment she had given it into his Hand, got from the Door with So much Speed, that she seem’d rather to vanish than to walk.
V..

««
4
9 ■.. •
t
1
I •».
t
\ ' f
  loi
While the Servant was Speaking, frank ville look’d on the Count with a kind of a pleas’d Expestations in his Eyes, hut then casting them on the Direstion of the Letter, Alas I said he, how vain was my Imagination, this is not camilla’s, but a Hand, to which I am utterly a Stranger; these words were clos’d with a sigh, and he open’d it with a Negligence which wou’d have been unpardonable, cou’d he have guefs’d at the Contents, but astbon as he saw the Name of Yioletta at the bottom, a flash of Hope re kindled in his Soul, and trembling with Impatience he read
• ^
a'
/ ’
‘ t
To Monsieur FRANKVILLE.
T Think it camtot he calvd.treaehery, if we betray the Secrets oj a Friend, only when Conceahnesit were an Injury, hut however, I may be able to answer this breach of Trufi, I am about to make, to my self, 'tis your Behaviour alone, which can absolve me to Cam ill 4 astd by your Fidelity fe mujl judge of mine.
Iho’ Daughter to the Man fie hates, fie finds nothing in me Unworthy oj her Love and Confidence, and as I have been privy, ever since your mutual Misfortunes, to the whole Hifiory of your Amour, foi am now no Strasxger to the Sentiments, your laji Conversation has infpipd her with — — She loves you fill, Monsieur— — extremity of Pajjion
H 3 loves
/
#
}
/
T 0  : Or
\
you. — But, tho’ jhe ceajes to believe you unr worthy of it, her Indignation for your unjufi Suspicion
of her will wt be eajily remov’d -- She is re
solve to ad. the Keroine, tho’ to pufchafe that cha rad.er it jlsoifd cojl her Life : She is determin’d for a Cloister, and has declared her Intention, and a few Days will take away all Possibility of ever being ' yours; but I, who kstow the costflid.s fe endures, wif) it may be in your Power to prevent the Execution of a Defgn which cannot, but be fatal to her ?* .My father and Ciamara, J wif) I cou d not call her Aunt, were laf Night in private Conferrence, but I over heard enough of their Discourse, to know there has been some ustgenerous Contrivance carry’d on to make you, and Cam ILL a appear guilty to each pther, and ’tis from that Knowledge I derive my Hopes that you have Honour enough to make a right Use of this Discovery, if yon have anything to say to farther the Interceffipsts I am imploy’d in, tp serve you. Prepat'e a Letter, which I will either prevail other to read, or oblige her,, in spite of the Resolution fe has snade, tv Hear : But take care, that in the leaf, you. hint not that you have receiv’d one from sue, foi fall persuade her that the Indvftry of your Love has found means of conveying it to me without my Knowledge : Bring it with yoti this Evening to St. peter’s, and affovst as Divhie Service is over, follow her who fall drop her Handkerchief as pe pa fes you, for by that Mark you Shall
Pfiirguif) her whbsnyouyet know, but by the Nasne of
%
* i
Violetta.
P. S. One thhig, and htdeed not the least, which in iud.d me to write, I had ahnoji forgot, which is, that
your
r 1
/
The Fatal Inquiry * 103
4
your Friend tbeaccomplifi’d coimtdti. mot is as much endangered hythe Resentment cc i a m A r a as youf self by that of my Father, bid him beware how Be receives any Letter, or Prefejit frosn a Hand unknown, leji he fwiild Experience, what he hqs doubtless heard of, our Italiaii Art of Poyfasting by the smell.
When Monfeiir Frankville had given this Letter to the Comit to read, which he immediately did, they both of them broke into the highest Encomiums on this young lady’s gene rofity, who contrary to the custom of her se3f, which seldom forgives an affront of that kind, jiiade it her study to serve the Man who had refus’d her, and make her Rival blessed.
These Testimonies of a grateful acknotyi ledgement being over, Frankville told the Count he believ’d the most, and indeed the only estestual Means to extinguish camilla’s Resentment wbu’d be entirely, to remove the Cause, which cou’d be done no other way, than by giving her a full Account of ciamara’s behaviour, while she liafs’d for her: D’elmo nt readily consented, and thought it not at all inconsistent with his Honour to Expbfe that of a Woman who had Shown so little Value for it her self: And when he saw that Frankville had finish’d his Letter, which was very long, for Lovers cannot easily come to a Conclusion, he ' offer’d to writ a Note to her, enclos’d in the other, which shou’d serve as an Evidence of the Truth of what he had alleged in his vindicati pn : Frankville gladly embrac’d the kind
H 4 Pro
0
\
%
\
10 : Ofy
I
'k proposal, and the other immediately made it
good in these words.
To Donna Cauili A.
/
Madam,
IF the Severity of your yujiice requires a Vistim, I only am Guilty, who being Impodd upon my self, endeavour’d, for I canswt say I copd accom plifh it, to hivolve the Usifortunate Frankville iw the same fatal Error, and at laji, prevailed onhim to^rite, what he copd not be brought, by all my Arguments to Think.
LET the Cause which led me to take this free dom, excuse the Presumption of it, which, from one so much a Stranger, wou’d be elfe unpardonable : But when we are conscious of a Crime, the frjl reparation we can make to Innocence, is, to ac kstowledge we have Offended and, if the Confeffon of my Faults, snay pur chase an Absolution for. my Friend, I fall account it the noblejl Work of Super ogatimt.
ft
beajfukd, that as hiexorable as you are, your vtjnojl Rigour would find it’s satisfabhon, if you coifd be Jejifble of what I fufer in a fadrepentance for my Sin of isijuring so Heavenly a Virtue, and, perhaps, in thne be mov’d by it to Pity and Forgive
t
The Unhappily deceiv’d
D’elmont.
The
^ (ft '
*
. \
%
 05
Th e time in which they had done Writing, immediately brought on that pf V i o L e t t Ass Appointment, and the Count wou’d needs accompany Monjieur Frankville in this Assignation, saying, he had an acknowledgment to pay to that Lady, which he thought himself oblig’d, in good Manners and Gratitude, to take this Opportunity to do; and the other being of the same Opinion, they went together to 3t. peter’s.
I •
0
When Prayers were done, which, stis probable, One of these Gentlemen, if not Both, might think too tedious, they stood up, and looking round, impatiently expested when the promis’d Signal shou’d be given; but among the great Number of Ladies, which pass’d by them, there were very few, who did not stop a little to gaze on these two accomplish’d Chevaliers, and they were several times tantaliz’d with an ima finary Violetta, before the real one, appear’d. But when the Crowd were almost dispers’d, and they began to fear some Accident had preven ed her coming, the long expested Token was let fall, and she who threw it, trip’d hastily away to the farther end of the Collonade, which hap ned to be entirely void of Company : The Count and his Companion, were not long behind her, and Monjieur Frankville being the Pershn chiefly concern’d, address’d himself to her in this manner : With what Words Madam, said he, can a Man so infinitely oblig’d, and fb de ssrous to be Grateful as Frankville, fuffici mtly make known his admiration of a Genero
^ty like yours? Such an unbounded Goodness,
fliames
I
t
%
/
I o6, Love ift Excess : Or
shames all Description! makes Language vile Since it affords no Phrash to Suit your Worth, or speak the mighty sense my Soul has of it. I have no other Aim, reply’d she, in what I have, done, than Justice; and stis only in the proof of your Sincerity to C a m i L L a that i.am to be thank’d. Frankville was about to answer with some assurances of his Faith, when the Count stepping forward, prevented him: My Friend, Madam, Said lie bowing, is most happy in having it in his Power to obey a Command, which is the utmost of his Wishes •, but how must I acquit myself of any part of that' Return which is due to you for that generous Care you have been pleas’d to express for the preservation of my Life > There needs no more, interrupted she, with a perceivable alteration in her Voice, than to have seen Count D’elmont to be inter rested in his Concerns — She paus’d a little after speaking these Words, and then, as if she thought she had said too much, turn’d hastily to
Frankville, the Letter, Monfeur, continu’d
shcj the Letter, -- -- ’tis not impoifible but we
may be obferv’d, -- -- 1 tremble with the apprehension
of a Discovery: Frankville immediately deliver’d it to her, but saw so much Disorder in her Gesture, that it very much surpriz’d him : She trembled indeed, but whether occasioned by any danger she perceiv’d of being taken notice of, or Some other Secret Agitation she felt within, was then unknown to any but herself, but whatever it was, it transported her sofar,, as to make her quit the Place, without being able to tsdee any other Leave than a hasty
✓
/
I'. ’•. *
*
f
 07
Cnrtfy, and bidding Fra nkville meet her the next Morning at Matins.
Here was a new Cause of Disquiet to d’el mont; the Experience he had of the too fatal influence of his dangerous Attrastibns, gave him sufficient Reashn to fear this young Lady was not insensible of them, and that his Presence was the foie Cause of her Dishrder; however, he Said nothing of it to, Frankville ’till the other mentioning it to him, and repeating her Words, they both joyn’d in the Opinion that Love had been too busy in her Heart, and that it ms the feeling the Effests of it in herself, had inclined her to sh much Compassion for the mish ries She saw it inflisted upon others. The Count rery well knew that when Dessres of this Kind are springing in the Soul, every Sight of thebeloved Objest, increases their growth, and therefore, tho’ her generous manner of Proceeding had created in him a very great Esteem, and iie wou’d have been pleas’d with her Conversation, yet he ceas’d to wish a farther Acquaintance with her, lest it should render her more Unhappy, and forbore going the next Day to Church with Eranjcville as else he wou’d bave dqne.
Violetta fail’d not to come as she had promis’d, but instead of dropping her Handkerchief, as she had done the Eycnshg before, she knelt as close to him as she cou’d, and pulling bim gently by the Sleeve, oblig’d him to regard lier, who elsh, not knowing her, wou’d not have suspested she was sh near, and flip’d a Note into
* V* VT ^ 1 If Y *
his
N .J
\
io   : Or.
.
Ms Hand, bidding him shftly not take any fari there notice of her : He obey’d, but stis reasona 1 ble to believe, was too impatient to know what | the Contents were, to listen with much Attenti j on and Devotion to the remainder of the Cere' j anony; as fbon as he was releas’d, he got into a ' Corner of the Cathedral, where, unobferv’d he might satisfy a Curiosity which none who Love, will condemn him for, any more than they will < for the thrilling Ecstasy which fill’d his Soul at the Reading these Lines.
V
To Monsieur FRANKVILLE.
For fear I prould not have an Opportunity oj speaking to you, in safety, I take this Method to inform you, that I have been so Succefsfiil in my is!egotiatiojt, as to make Camilla repent the southeast verity of her Sentence, and wif) for nothhtg more than to recall it; you are stow entirely jufifed in her Opinion, by the Artifice which was snade use of to Deceive you, and fie is, I believe, no less enrag’d at Ciamara for depriving her of that Letter you sent by the Count, than fie was at you for that unkind one, which came to her Hastds. She is now under less rejirahit, since Bri one's Report of her Behaviour to you, and the everlajhstg Resentment sit e vow’d, and I have prevail’d on her to accompany mein a Vijit Lam to make, tomorrow in the Evening, to Donna Clara Me'ttelinb, a Nun, in the Monafiery of St. Augustine, and if you will meet us there, I believe it not impojfible but
p
> •
t
\
/ • 'wi
^
ft
I _ '
  ic
jf)e may be brought to a Confejjion of all I have dif.
cover’d to you of her Thoughts.
t
• *. ■ ft
THE Countst Letter was of no small Service to lou, for tho’without that Evidence fe wou’d have been cojtvinc’d of your Conjiancy, yet jbe wou’d hardly have acknowledged jbe was so • and if he will take the Pains to come with you tomorrow, I believe his Company will be acceptable, if you think it proper, you may let him know as much fro7n
V I OLE T T
P. S. I beg a thousand Pardons both of you and the Count for the abruptness oj my Departure lajl nightfomethi7tg happen’d to give me a Confusion from which I cou’d not at that time recover, hut hope for the future to he more Mifirefs of my Jelf '
ikfon»sljeivi? Frankville hasted to the fount’s Lodgings, to communicate his good Fortune, but Sound him in a Humour very unfit for Congratulations; the Post had fust brought him i Letter from his Brother, the Chevalier bril lian, the Contents whereof were these
To Count D’E L M O N T.
My Lord,
TIS with an i7iexpreffble Grief' that I obey the comma7id you left me, for giving you from Time to Time anexab Account of melliora’s Affairs, since what I have now to acquahtt you with,
will
1
/
no   Ovy
will make yott Jland in Need of all your Moderation to support it. But, iot to keep yojlr expebation on the Rack, loth as I am, I muji inform you, that Melliora is, by some unknown Ravifier Jlolen
from the Monastery -- -- The manner of it, (as I have
fnce learn d from those who were with her) was thus .* As (fee was walking in the Fields, behind the Cloyjler Gardens, accompanied hy some young lady’s, pen fioners there as well as her self, four Men well mounted, hut Difgimd and Muffed, rode up to them, three of them jump’d off their Horses, and while onefeiz’d 07i the defenceless Prey., and bore her to his aris, who was not alighted, the other two caught hold of her Companions, and prevented tbeout cryes they would have snade, ’till fe was carry’d out of, sight, then Mounting again their Horses, istimedi ately loji the amaz’d Virgins all Hopes, of recovet'hg her,
X
ft
I Con] tyre my dearejl Brother to believe there has heenon thi7tg omitted for the Discovery of this Villainy, hut in spite of au the Pains a7td Care we have taken in the feared. None of us have yet been happy enough to. hear the leaji Accoinit of her : That ■my. next maymng you more welcome News, is the first wifi) of
My Lord,
your Lordshiyist most:
♦
Zealously Affectionate Brother, and Humble Servant
ft
Brilliant
r. s,
The Fatal Enqtnry. itx
P. S. THERE are some People here. Malicious
mugh to Report, that the Defgn of carrying away Melliora, was contriv’d by you, ajid that it is f! Rome fre only can he fomid. It wou’d he of great Advantage to my Peace, if I copd he of the Number of those who believe it, but I am too well ac uainted with, your Principles to harbour such a. ught. Onceanpre, my dear Lord, for tus Time, Idieu.
After the Count had given this Letter to ^ R A N K V 1 L L E to read, he told him, he was csolv’d to leave Ilome the next Day, that no )ody had fb great an Interest in her Recovery as limfelf, that he would Trust the Search of her 0 no other, and Swore with the most dreadful imprecations he could make, never to rest, hut rander, Knight errajtd like, over the whole World still he had found her..
'Ty
t
tho’ monfeuf frankville Was extremely concern’d at what had happen’d to his Sister, yet le endeavour’d to distwade the Count from leasing Rome till he knew the result of his own affair with Camilla; but all his Arguments vere for a long time ineffestual, ’till, at last, lowing him violetta’s Letter, he prevail’d )n him to defer his Journey till they hast first 'een C a m i L L a, on Condition, that if she per [isted in her Rigour, he shou’d give over any further fruitless Solicitations, and accompany lim to : This Frankville promis’d to perform, and they pass’d the time in very uneasy and impatient Cogitations, ’till the next Day
about
I i2 Ijove in Excess f; Or about
Five III the Evening they prepar’d for the Apointmerit.
CO27 ntd.dlmont and his longing Companion were the first at the Rendezvous, but in a very little while they perceiv’d two Women coming towards them : The Idea of Camilla was always too much in Fkankv ille’s Thoughts, not to make him know her, by that charming Air ('which he so much, ador’d her for) tho’ She was V eil’d never so closely, and the Moment he had sight of them, Oh Heaven (cry’d he to D’elmont) yonder She comes, that, - — that my Lord, is the divine Ca m ill a as they came pretty near she that indeed prov’d to be Ga m I L L a, was turning on one Side, in order to go to the Grate where she expected the Ntm. th\d[ hold Donna Camilla, cry’d Violet' TA, I cannot suffer you shou’d pass by your Friends with an Air so unconcern’d, is Monjieur Frankville has done anything to merit your Bifpleafure, my Lord the Cointt certainly deserves your Notibe, in the Pains he.has taken to undeceive you. (One fb much a Stranger as Cotmt d’elmont is, arifwer’d she', may very well exciife my Thanks for an explanation, which had he been acquainted with me, he would have {par’d the Cruel C a m i L L a! said frank vi ll e, is then the knowledge of my Innocence
unwelcome? -- -- -- Am I become so hateful, or
are you fi) chang’d, that you wisli me guily, for a justification of your Rigour? If it be lb, I have no Remedy but Death, which tho’ you depriv’d me of, the last time I saw you, I now can find a Thousand means to compass; he pronounc’d
 1 ^
A
t
hbunc’d these words in so Tender,, yet fb rcfblv’d an Accent, that C a m i L L a cou’d not conceal l)art of thelmpreffion they made on her, and put s ting her Handkerchief to hereyes, which in Spite of all she had doiie to prevent it, overflow’d with Tear; talk not of Death, said she, I ain not Cruel to that degree. Live Frankville^
Live I .U — But Live, without Camilla! Oh,
’tis imposhble 1 refum’d he, the latter, part of your Command entirely destroys the first, — Life without yostr love, would be a Hell, which I
confess my soul’s a Coward, but to think of.
1 • *.
J *
'
The Count and Violetta were Silent all this Time, and perceiving they were in a fair way of Reconciliation, thought the best they cou’d do to forward it, was to leave ’em to themselves, and walking a few Paces from them: You Suffer rny Lord, laid she, for your Generosity in accompanying your Friend, since it condemns.you to the Conversation of a Person who has neither Wit, nor Gaiety shfficient to make herself Diverting. Those, reply’d he who. wou’d hiake the Excellent Violetta a Subjest: of Diverlfi on, ought never to be blessed with the Company of any, but such Women who merit not a Seri bus Regard: But you indeed, were your Soul capable bs discending. to the Tollys pf your Sex, wou’d be extremely at a Lois in conver lation so little (lualify’d as mine, to please the Vanities of the fair; and you stand in need of all those more than Manly Virtues you postefs, to pardon a Chagreen, which even your Prefenco cannot Dissipate: If it cou’d, interrupted she, I affure your Lordship,,! shou’d much more rei

\
11  : Ocy
Joyce in the happy Effests of it on you, thait Pride my self in the power of such an Influence — And yet, continu’d She with a Sigh, I am a very Woman, and if free from the usual Affestations and Vanities of my Sex, I am not fb from Faults, perhaps, less worthy of forgiveness: The Count cou’d not presently refblve what reply to make to these words, he was unwilling she should believe he wanted Complaisance, and afraid of saying anything that might give room for a Declaration of what he had no power of answering to her wish; but after the consideration of a Moment or two. Madam, said he, tho’ 1 dare not Question your Sincerity in any other Point, yet you muss give me leave to Disbelieve you in this, not only, because, in my Opinion, there is nothing fb contemptibly rediculous as that self Sufficiency, and vain desire of pleasing, commonly known by the Name of Coquetry, biitalso because she who efcapesthe Contagion of this Error, will not without much difficulty be led into any other; Alas my Lord, cry’d Violetta, now vastly wide of Truth as this Assertion?? very foible, which is most pernicious to onr Sex, is chiefly by Coquetry prevented : I need not tell you that stis Love I mean, and asblameable as you think the one, I believe the other wou’d find less favour from a, Person of your lordstiip’s Judgement; How Madam, interrupted the Count pretty Warmly, have I the Charaster of a Stoic? — Or do you immagine that my Soul is compos’d of that course Stufli not to be capable of receiving, or approving a Patiion, which, all the Brave, and generous think it their glory to proselsj and which
can
;
>
\
J ^ *
 15
/ * 0 ’
I;
ckn only give refin’4 delight, to Minds ennobled.
— r But I perceive, continu’d he growing luore coqi, I am not happy enough in your e fteem, to be thought worthy the Influence of that Godi Still you mistake my Meaning said Violetta, I doubt not of ybiir Sensibility, were there a polsibility of finding a Woman worthy of Inspiring you with soft Desires;; if that.fliou’d ever happen. Love wou’d be sofar front being a Weakness, that itwmu’dferve rather as an Embelifhment to your other Graces; ics only when we stoop to. Ob jests below our Consideration, or; vainly wing our wishes to those above ■ our Hopes that makes us appear rediculous or contemptible; but either of these is a Folly virhich, -^ — ^ which the incomparable YIOL ETT A, interrupted D’el mont; never can be guilty of: You have ^ very good Opinion of iny Wit reshm’d she, in a melaiicholly Tone but I shou’d be much happier thaii 1 am, if I Were sure I cou’d secure my self from doing anything tp forfeit it: I believe, feply’d the cpunt there are not many things you have less rea fon to apprehend than such a Change; and L am confident were I to stay iwrome as many ages, as lam determin’d to do but jf/owrr, I shou’d, at last leave it, with the same Esteem and Admiration of your. Singular Yertues, as 1 now shall do. Violetta costd not prevent the Difbrder these words put her into, from, difeovering it self in the Accent of her Voice, when. Howl My Lord, said she, are we then to lose you? — Lose you in so short a Time: As the Count was about t o answer, Frankville and CL a m i L L a joyn’d themi, and looking on Frankville, if any
i 2 Credit,
/
116 hove in Excefr; Ofy
Credit, said he, may he given to the language of the Eyes, I am certain yours speak Success, and I may congratulate a Happiness you lately cou’d not be persuaded to hope *, had I a thousand Eyes, cry’d the transjiorted Lover, a thousand Tongues, they all wou’d be but infig iiificant to express the Joy! — the unbounded
Ecstasy, my Soul is full of, -- -- but take the
mighty Meaning in one Word, -- -- camilla’s
mine -- -- for ever mine — the Storm is pashand
all the sunny Heaven of Love returns to bless my future Days with ceafeless Raptures : Now, my Lord, I am ready to attend you in your Joiirny, this Bright! this beautious Guardian Angel will partake our Flight! and we have nothing now to do, but to prepare witpi secrecy and fyeed fit means for our Escape. As fbon as Frankville had left offfpeaking, Cowwt D’elmont addressing himself to Camilla, made her abundance of Retributions, for the happiness She gave his Friend, which She receiving with a becoming Cheerfulness, and unaffested Gaiety, I am afraid, said she, your Lordship will think a woman’s Resolution is, henceforth, little wmrth regarding; but, continu’d She, taking Violetta by the Hand, I See well, that this unfaithful Creature has betray’d me, and to punish her Infidelity, will, by leaving her, put it out of her; power to deceive my Confidence again; V ioletta either did not hear, or was not in a. condition to return her Raillery, nor the Praises which the Comit and. Monjieur Frankville concur’d in of her Generossty, but flood motionless nd loss: in Thought, ’till Camilla Seeing it grow towards Night, told the Gentlemen, she
thought
I
*
I
A
  i X 7
thought it hefl: to part, not only to avoid any Suspicion at Home of their being out fb long but alfb that the others might order everything proper for their Departure, which it was agreed on between Frankville and her, should be the next Night, to prevent the success of those mifehievous Designs she knew Ciamara and Cittol IN I were forming against both the
ccmwt and Frankville.
$
_ ^ ^
Matters being thus adjusted to the entire
Satisfastioii of the Lovers, and not in a much less proportion to the Count, they all thought it best to avoid inaking any more Appointments ^ tin they met to part no more, which was to be at the Wicket t dead of Night. When the Count took leave of Violetta, this being the last time he cou’d exptel to see her, she was hardly able to return his Civilities, and much less to answer those which Frankville made her, after the Comit had turn’d from her to give him way; both of them guefssh the Cause of her Confusion, and D.D. L m o n t felt a concern in observing it, which nothing but that for Melliora cou’d furpass.
f
The next Day found full Employment for them all, but the Count as well as Franville was too impatient to be gone, to neglect anything requisite for their Departure, there was not the least particular wanting, long before the time they were to wait at the Wicket for camilla’s coming forth : The Cowifs Lodging being the nearest, they stay’d there, watching for the long’d for Hour, but a little before it
I 3 arriv’d,
«
  : Qn
i L 2? * J.. /,., .* ' NA
Youth, who shem’d to be about 13 or 14 Years of Age, defir’d to be admitted to the Counts prelence, which being granted, pulling a Letter out of his Pocket, and blushing as he approach’d him: I come, my Lord, ’ Said she, from iponm Violetta, she Contents of this will inform’
you on what Business; but left the Treachery of
others, shou’d render me fufpested, permit me to break it Open, and prove it carries no infcsti on : The Cotistt look’d' earnestly bn him while he spoke, and was strangely taken with she uncommon Beauty and Modesty which he obferv’d in him: You need not give your self she trouble of that Experiment, answer’d he, Donm violetta’s Name, and your own engaging Afpest, are sufficient Gredeiltials, if I were liable to doubt •, in saying this, he took she Letter, and full of fears that slime Accident had happen’d to; Camilla, which might retard their Journey, hastily read over thesh Lines. •;
I
''..! ' - ^, I i • V
i ^ I i t t
^ 4s Hr ^ V ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
4 .... ■:.... L.., _.
To the Worthy Count D’el Mon T
■ ^ ■ }. ■
Lord,
IF any Part of that ejleem you Profefdd to have sot me, he real, yoir will not deyty the Reqiiejl I: make you to accept this Touth, who is jny Relad tio7t, in Quality of a Page n He is inclin’d to Travel, a7td of all Places, France is that which he is mofl defrous of - Going to : If a diligeytt Care, a faithful Secrecy, and ayi Uytceafyig watchfuluefs to ' please, can render, him acceptable to your Service, T doubt Wt lut he will, hy uhofe, Recomend Jmnfelf, hered 1 :.,.. •,., after: -
»
  tip
after: In the mean Time hegyou will receive him on my word: And if that will be aity Inducement to prejudice you in his favour, I affure you, that tho’ he is one degree nearer in Blood to ny Father, he is by many in Humour and Prhtciplcs to.
Violetta.
P. S. May Health, Safety, attd Prosperity attend you in your fourney, and all the Happiness you wish for, crown the End.
\
The Young Fidel lo, for folie was call’d, coff d not wish to be receiv’d with greater Demonstrations of Kindness than those the Count gave him : And perceiving that Violetta had trusted him with the whole affair of their leaving rone in private, doubted not of his Condust, and consulted with him, who they found knew the PI ace perfectly well, after what manner they should Watch, with the least danger of being difcover’d, for camilla’s opening the Wicket. Frankville was forgoing alone, lest if any of the Servants shou’d happen to be about, one Person would be less liable to suspicion than 'if a Company were seen; the Count thought it most proper to go all together, remembering Frankville of the danger he had lately shap’d, and might again be brought into - but Fidel lo told them, he wou’d advise that they two should remain conceal’d in thc Portico, of the Convent of St. Francis, while himself wou’d watch alone at the Wicket for Camilla, and lead her to them, and then afterwards they might go altogether to that Place where the Horses and Servants shou’d attend them; the
/ I 4 Lage’ 0
t
• >
N 12 : Ors

page’s Counsel was approv’d by both of them, and the time being arriv’d, ’ what they had contriv’d was immediately put in Execution,
/
Everything happen’d according to their Desire, Camilla got safely to the arinsbfher inipatient Lover, and they all taking Horse, I rode with such Speed, as Some of them wou’d have been little able to bear, if anything less
than Life and Love had been at Stake.
%
The I r eager wishes, and the goodness of their Horses brought them, before daybreak inany Miles'from Rome; but tho’ they avoided all high roads, and travell’d cross the Country to prevent being met, or overtook by any that inight know them, yet their desire of feeing themselves in a Place of Security was fb great, that they refus’d' to stop to take any Refreshment ’till the next Day was almost spent; but when they were come into the House were they were to lye that Night, not all the fatigue they had endur’d, kept the Lovers from giving and receiving all the Testimonies imaginable of mutual Astestion. •
I
The sight of their Felicity added new Wings ^ to Count d’el'mont’s impatience to recover Melliora, but when he confiderst the little probability of that hope, he grew inconshlable, and his new Page F idel'io, who ' lay on a Pallet in the same Room with him, put all his Wit, of which he had no small Stock, upon the stretch to divert his Sorrows, he talk’d to him, sang to him, told him a hundred pretty Stories,
'' and
) f I
. »•
  ii
nd, ill fine, madegood the Charaster Violet
ia had given him so well, that the Count loolc’d on him as a Blessing ferit from Heaven to leffeii his Misfortunes and make his Woes lit easy.
0 t ^ •
r
They continu’d Travelling with the same Expedition as when they first fet out, for three or four Days, hut then, believiiig themshlves secure from any Pursuit, began to slacken their Pace, and make the Journey more delightfiil to ga millaandfidelic, who, not being accustomed to ride ill that manner, wou’d never have been able to shpport it, if the strength of their Minds, had not by far, exceeded that of their Bodied
. % 0 '
They had gone sh much about, in Peeking the by roads, that they made it three times as long before they arriv’d at Avigno, a small vil lage on the Borders of Italy, as any, that had come the direst way wou’d have done; but the Caution they had obferv’d, was not altogether needless, as they presently found.
ft. ‘ 4 ■
A Gentleman who had been a particular Acquaintance of Monjieur frankville’s, overtook them at this Place, and after expreifing slime Amazment to find ’em no farther on their Journey told Monjieur Fr a nkvill e he believ’d he cou d inform him of some things which had happen’d since his Departure, and cou’d not yet have reach’d his Knowledge, which the other desiring him to do, the Gentleman begun in this manner.
^ ■ It
ft # 00^
12  : Ocy
f
^ ir

IT was no fboner Day, laid he, than it wa 1 nois’d over all the City, that Domta Cam ill a, | pihwt D’elmont, and your self, had privately left Romeevery Body spoke of it, according to their Humour, but the Friends of Ciamara ■ andcittqlini were outrageous, a Complaint was immediately made to the Confijiory, and all imaginable Deligence us’d, to overtake, or stop 1 you, but you were so happy as to Escape, and she Pursuers return’d without doing anything of what they went about: Tho’ cittolini’s disappointment to all appearance, was she greatest, yet Ciamara bore it with the least Patience, and having vainly rag’d, offer’d' all the Treasure she was Mistress of, and perhaps Ipent she best part of it in fruitless means to bring you back, at last she fwallow’d Poyshn, and in the raving agonies of Death, confess’d, that it was not the, loss of Camilla, but coziwtd’elmont ^ which was the Cause of her Despair: : Death gave a fresh occasion of Grief to C i t t ol i n i, but she Day in which she was interr’d, brought himt yet a nearer, he had sent to his Villa for his Daughter V loletta to assist at the Funeral, and the Mestenger return’d with the fiirprizing Account of her not having been there as she pretended she was, nothing was ever equal to the Rage, she Grief, and the Amazement of this distradted Father, when after the stristest Inquiry, and Search that cou’d be made, she was nowhere to ^ be found or heard of, it threw'' him into a Fever, of which he linger’d but a final 1 Time, and dy’d the same Day on which I left Rome.
,. The.
• t
\
  j25
S ■ ■■ 1 ' >
The Gentleman who made this recital, was entirely a Stranger to any of the Company but Monjieur Frankville, and they were retired into a private Room during the time of their Conversation, which lasted riot long; Frankville was iitipatient to communicate to Camilla and D’elmont what he had heard, and
as soon as Civility wou’d ])ermit, took leave of
the Gentleman. ' J
B
t; ' '
V
The Count had too much Compassion in his Nature not to be extremely troubled when he was told this melaiicholly Catastrophe; but Camilla laid little, the ill usage of ciama ka, and the impudent, and interested pretenii 6ns of cittolini to her, kept her from being So much concer7fd at their Misfortunes as she wou’d have been at any other Persons, and the geiierofity of her Temper, or slime other Reashn which the Reader will not bf ignorant of, hereafter, from expreifing any satisjabign in the Punishment they had met: But when the Count, who most of all lamented Violetta, express’d his Astbiiishment and Affliction, at her Elopement, she joyn’d with him in the Praises of that young Lady, with an eagerness which testify’d she had no part in the Hatred she bore her
Father.
*
If *
t '
While they were dishourling Camilla obshrv’d that Fidel 10 who was all this while in the Room, grew very pale, and at last'faw him drop down on the Ground, quite Senshless, she run to him, as did shis’lord, and Monjieur Frankville, and after, by throwing Water
i ili; — ‘ ■ in
V CI
'
k
12  : Qcy
in his Face, they brought him to himself again, lie appear’d in such an Agony that they, fear’d his Fit wou’d return, and order’d him to be laid on a Bed, and carefully attended.
s
.. ^ * i
After they had taken a short Repast, they *' began to think of setting forward on their Journey, designing to reach Piedmont that Night: The Count went himself to the Chamber where i bis Page was laid, and finding he was very ill, told him he thought it best for him ho remain in that Place, that he wou’d order Physicians to attend him, and that when he was fully recover’d, he might follow them to Paris with Safety. F i delio was ready to saint a stcond time at the hearing tistfe Words, and with the most earnest Conjurations aceornpany’d with Tears, begg’d that he might not be left behind : I can but dye, | laid he, if I go with you, but I am sure, that nothing if t/st^yi^^i me : The Count leeinghim so pro^g^^fent for a Litter, but ' there was none to be got, and in Spite of all Camilla or frankville cou’d say to dissuade him, having his lord’s, Leave, he ventured to attend him as he had done the former
s '
part of the Journey.
* i i ■.
They travell’d at an easy rate, because of fideliq’s Indilpofition, and it being later than they imagin’d, Night came upon ’em before they Were aware of it. usher’d in, by one of the ^ most dreadful Storms that' ever was; the Rain, the Hail, the Thunder, and the Lightning, was ib Violent that it oblig’d’eni to mend their Pace to get into slime Place of shelter, for there
was
r •'
ft
i
/ ^
t
f
> V •
 2^
was 110 House near : But to make their Misfortune the greater, they miss’d the Road, and rode considerably out of their way, before they perceiv’d that they were wrong; the darkness of the Night, which had no Illumination than now and then, a horrid fiasti of Lightning, the wildness of the Desert, which they had stray’d into, and the little Hopes they had of being able to get out of it, at least ’till Day, were fiifficient to have struck Terror in the boldest Heart : Camilla stood in need of all her Love, to Protest her from the Fears which were beginning to Assault her; but poor Fidel 10 felt an inward Horror, which, by this dreadful Scene encreas’d, made him appear wholly defparate, : Wretch that I am, cry’d he, ’tis for me the Tempest rises!! justly
have incurr’d the wrath of Heaven, -- -- -- and you
who are Innocent, by my accurs’d Presence are drawn to Share a Punishment only due to Crimes like Mine! In this manner he exclaim’d, wringing his Hands in bitter Anguish, and rather Expojifig his lovely Face to, all the fury of the Storm, than any way endeavouring to Defend it : !nis Lord, and the two generous Lovers, tho’ harass’d almost to Death themselves, said all they cou’d to comfort him, the Count and Monfeur Fra nkville confider’d his words rather as the Effests of his Indilpofition, and the fatigue he endured, than remorse for any Crime he cou’st have been guilty of, and the pity they had for one sh young and innocent, made the cruelty of the Weather istore infuportable to theln.
At Last, after long wandering, and the Ter ipest stilleiicreaiing, one of the Servants, who was before
%
\
• ts • ".
>• ‘ C .■ \ ■ ' • ' • ' ' * C '
ia   Ovy
before, was happy enough to explore a Path, and cry’d out to his Lord with a great .deal of Joy; of the Discovery he had made; they were all of Opinion that it must lead to some House, because the Ground was beat down, as if with the Feet of Passengers, and entirely free froiii Stubble; Stones, and stumps of Trees, as the other fart of the Desert they come thro’ was encumber’d with.
They had not rode very far before they distern’d Lights, the Reader .may iinagine the joy this Sight produc’d, and that they were not stow in making their approach encourag’d by such a wish’d for Signal of Success : When they came pretty neat, they saw by the Number of Lights, which were diiper^’d in several Rooms distant stom eacst other, that it was awery large and ihagnificicent House,, made no doubt but that it was the Coiintry seat of slime Person of great (^dlity : The wet Condition they they were in, made them almost ashaiffd of appearing, and they agreed not to Discover who they were, if they found they were unknown.
.<• •• r;;
had no shoiier knock’d than the Gate was immediately open’d by a Porter, who asking their Business, the Count told fiim they were Gentlemen, who had been fb Unfortunate < to mistake the Road to Piedmont, and. defir’d the Owners leave for Refiige in shjs House, for shat Night; that is a Courtesy, said the Porter, which my Lord never r^fuip ^ nd hi Confidence of his Assent, I may Venture to desire you to a light, and bid you Welcome: They all accepted the Invitation, and were tendusted into
a
  taf
.r \
a stately Hall, where they waited not long be jpore the Marquess De Saguillier, having beeii inform’d they appear’d like People of Condition, came himself to confirm the Charaster his Servant had given of his Hospitality. He was a Man perfestlywell Bred, and in spite of the dif advantages their Fatigue had shbjested them to, he saw something in the Countenance of these Travellers, which commanded his Refpest, and engag’d him to receive them with a more than ordinary Civility.
Almost the first thing the Count delir’d, was that his Page might be taken care of *, he Was presently carry’d to Bed, and Camilla (to whom the Marquess made a thousand apology’s that being a Batchellor, he coifd not Accommodate her, as he cou’d the Gentlemen) was show’d to a Chamber, where some of the Maid Servants attended to j)tit her on dry Clothes.
\
They were Splendidly entertain’d that Night, and when Morning came, and they were preparing to take Leave, the Marquess, who Was strangely charm’d with their Conversation, Entreated them to stay two or three Days with him to recover themselves of the Fatigue they had suffer’d: The count’s impatience to beat Paris, to inquire after his Dear Melliora wou’d never have permitted him to consent, if he had not been oblig’d to it, by being told that Fidel lo was grown much worse, and not in a Condition to Travel; Frankville and Camil i a had laid nothing, because they wou’d not op post the Co 17 N t’s Inclination, but were ex:
treainly
✓
\
#
12%   f .* dry
.!*
treamly glad of ail Opportunity to rest a little Ibnger, tho’ Sorry for the Occasion' ' ^

■ *. C '
% ■ ^
> The Marquess omitted nothing that itiight
liialce their - Stay agreeable; bstt tho’ he had a longing Inclination to know, the ’names, and Quality of his Guests, he forbore to ask, since he found they were hot free to discover themselves: The Converlatibn between
f. i..
these accomplish’d Persons was extremely Entertaining, and C A M I L L A, tho’ an Italian, Ipoke Frejich well enough to make no inconsiderable part of it; the Themes of their dif cburfe were Various, but at last happning to mention Love, the marquess spoke of that Palfioii lb feelingly, and express mhimfelf so vigoroussy when he atteinpted to ex^fe any of those er^ tors, it leads its Totarya mto, that it was easy to Discover, he felt the Influence he ehdeavouf d to reprefenti
Night camie on again, fiuelio’s diftem per encreas’d to that degree, that they all be i gan to despair of his Recovery, at least: they cou’d not hope it for a long Time, if at all, and Count DEL M o ij t fretted beyond ineafurc at this unavoidable delay of the progress of hisjourney to that Place, where he thought there was only a possibility of hearing of Mell Iora : As he was in Bed, forming a thousand various idea’s, tho’ all tending to one Objest, he heard the ^ Chamber Door unlock, and opening hi Curtains perceiv’d Somebody come in; a Candle wa§’ burning in the next' Room, and gave Light e nough at the opening the Door, to ■ show it wa'
a wos
/
The Fatal Enq niry • 12 p
a Woman, but what Sort of one he cou’d not Dishern, nor did he give himself the trouble of asking who was there, believing it might be one of the Servants come in to fetch shmeithing she wanted, still coming pretty near the Bed, she cry’d twice in a low Voice, are you a Sleep, no, answered he, a little fiirpriz’d at this Disturbance, what wou’d you have? I come said she, to talk to you, and I hope you are more a Chevalier than to prefer a little Sleep, to the Conversation of a Lady, tho’ she Visits you at Midnight : These words made D’ E L mo n t believe he had met with a second Ciamara, and lest he shou’d find the same Trouble with this as he had done with the. former, he reshiv’d to put a stop to it at once, m.d. with an Accent as peevish, as he cou’d turn hisnbice to; the Conversation of lady’s reply’d he, is a Happiness I neither Deserve, nor much Desire at any Time, especially at this; therefore whoever you are, to oblige me, you must leave me to the freedom of my Thoughts, which at present afford me matter of Etertainment more shitable to my Humour than anything I can find here! Oh Heavens! Said the Lady, is this the Courtly, thc’accomplish’d Count D’el MON T? So fam’d for Complaisance and Sweetness? Can it be he, who thus rudely Repels a Lady, when she comes to make him a Present of her Heart? The Count was very much amaz’d to find he was known in a Place were he thought himself wholly a Stranger, I Perceive, anfiver’d he, with more ill humour if poshble than before, you are very well acquainted with my Name, which I shall never deny (though for some Reasons I conceal’d it) but not at all
K with
t
130 Leave in Excess : Or
with my ch^raster, or you wou’d know, I can esteem the Love of a Woman, only when ’tis Granted, and think it little worth acceptance, profiekd. Oh unkind! Said she, but perhaps the Sight of me, may inspire you with Sentiments less Cruel: With these words she went hastily out of the Room to fetch the Candle she had left within; and the Coxtht was so much furpriz’d and vex’d at the Immodesty and Imprudence he believ d her Guilty of, that he thought he cou’d not Put a greater affront upon her, than her Behaviour deferv’d, and turn’d himself with his Face the other way, designing to deny her the fatisfastion even of a look; she return’d immediately, and having fet down the Candle pretty near the Bed, came close to it her self, and feeing how he was laid; this is unkind indeed, said file, stis but one look I ask, and if you think me unworthy of another, I will for ever shun your Eyes : The Voice in which these words were deliver’d, for those she spoke before were in a feign’d Accent, made the heart ravish’d D’ E L m o N t turn to her indeed, with much more hash than he had done to avoid her, those Dear, those well remembef*d sounds infus’d an Ecstasy, which none but Mell idra’s cou’d create; he heard, — he saw - — she, that very she, whose Loss he had so much deplor’d, and began almost to despair of ever being a ble to Retrieve 1 forgetting all Decorum, he flew out of the Bed, catch’d her in his Arms, and almost stifl’d her with Rifles; which she returning with pretty near an equal eagerness, you will not chide me from you now? She cry’d; those who have ever experienc’d any part of that
Transt
 31
f
Transport, D’el MONT now was in, will know it was imposhble for him to give her any other Answer, than repeating his Caresses, words were too poor to Express what stwas he felt, nor had he time to Spare for Speech, employ’d in a far dearer, fbfter Oratory, than all the force of Language cpu’d coiiie up to!
\
But, when at lass:, to gaze upon her with more freedom he releas’d her froih that strist Embrace he had held her in, and she blushing, with down cast Eyes began to reflect on the ef fests of her unbounded pashon, a sudden pang feiz’d on his Soul, and trembling, and convuls’d between extremity of ^oy, and extremity of an gpfi, I find thee Mel lor a, cry’d he, but Oh,
my Angel! where is it thou art found > -- -- in
the House of the young Amorous Marqiiefe D’ Saguillier! Cease, cease, interupted fly,
your caufeless Fears, -- wherever I am found,
I am, — I can be only yours. ^ — And if you will return to Bed, I will Inform you, not only what Accident brought me hither, but also e very particular of my Behaviour since I came.
These words first put the Count in mind of the Indecency his Transport had made him Guilty of, in being seen in that manner, and was going hastily to throw on his Night Gown, wdien Melliora perceiving his Intent, and fearing he wou’d take cold, told him she wou’d not stay a Moment, unless he granted her Request of returning to his Bed, which he, after having made her lit down on the Side of it, at last consented to; And contenting himself with taking one of
K 2. her
r. * •
15  : Or
her Hands, and pressing it between his, close Prisoner in his Bosom, gave her Liberty to begin in this Manner the Discovery she had promis’d.
i
after the Accident ofalovy sa’s Death, said she, at my return to the Monastery I found a new Penjwner thereit was the young mada moifelle Charlotta D’mezray, who being lately left an Orphan, was entrusted to the Care of our Ahhefs being her near Relation, still her time of Mourning was expir’d, and she shossd be married to this Marquess d’^anguillier, at whost House we are ♦, they were Contrasted by their Parents in their Infancy, and nothing but. the sudden Death of her Mother had put a stop to the Confurnmation of what then, they both wish’d with equal Ardour : But alas! Heaven which decreed the little Beauty I am Mistress oss shou’d be pernicious to my own repose, ordain’d it so, that this unfaithful Lover, feeing me one Day at the Grate with Ch A rl otta, shossd fancy he found Something in Aft? more worthy of creating a Passion, than he had in her, andbegan to wish himself releas’d from his Engagement with her that he might have Liberty to enter into an other, whidi he imagin’d wou’d be more pleashig : Neither she, nor I had the least shfpicion of his Sentiments, and, we having commenc’d a very great Friendship, she wou’d for the most part 1 desire me to partake in the Visits he made her :
He still continu’d to make the same protestations of Astestion to her as ever; but if on any occasion, she but turn’d her Head, or cast her Eyes another way, he would give me shch looks, as, tsto’ I then but 1 ittle regarded, I have since understood
 53
derstood the meaning of, but too well; in this manner he proceeded for some Weeks, still at last: he came one Day extremely out of Humour, and told Charlotta the occasson of it was that he had heard she gave Encouragement to Some other Lover, she, amaz’d, as well she might. avow’d her Innocence, and endeavour’d to Undeceive him, but he wstb resblv’d not to be convinc’d, at least: not to seem as if he was pertended to be more enrag’d at what he call’d weak Excuses, said he was .fatissy’d she was more Guilty, even than he wou’d speak, r— — he knew not if it were conststent with his Honour, ever to see her more. — -' * And in short, behav’d himself in sh unaccountable a manner, that there was no room to Doubt that he was either the most impos’d on, or most; Safe of Men : It wou’d be endless for me to endeavour to represent poor Ch A RL OTT a’s astistion.so I shall only say, it was answerable to the Tenderness she had for him,
I ^
which cou’d by nothing be exceeded, but by that, continu’d she Sighing, and looking Languishly on him, which, contrary to all the Resolutions I had made brings me to seek thearms of myenchanting D’ELMONT, to rouse Remembrance of his former palsion! to strengthen my Idea in his Heart 1 and Influence: him a new with Love and Softness I This kind Digreshon made the Count give Truce to his Curiosity, that he might Indulge the Raptures of his Love, and railing himself in Bed, and pressing her slender fine propord pned Body close to his, wou’d permit her no 0 therwife, than in this Posture to continue her Dishourfe.
I
K 3 S EI

w
/
1^  : Or
\
Days refum’d Mell iora, were past, and we heard nothing of the Marquess, all which, as he has since told me, were spent in friiitless Projections to steal me from the mon naftry; but at last, by the means of a Lay si fer, he found means to convey a Letter to me y the Contents of it, as near as I can rentembef were These
^ ^ ^ ^
the Divine M E L L I O F A.
I
I s m the jaljhood of Charlotta, hut X the Charms 0/ M e E L i o R A have produc’d this Change in my Behaviour, do not therefore, at the reading this, afeht a surprise at bf^ebs, which Lain sure cannot be uncommon to such Excellence I Nor accuse ayi Inconstancy, which I Father efeem a Virtue than a Vice \ To Change from you indeed would be the highejl Sin, as well as Stupiditybut toi Chaytge for you, is what all mufl, and ought to do, who boaji a Capacity 0} dijhnguifmg, I Love you. Oh Divinef Mell ior a, I burn, I languifj for yoi{ in unceaf7igtorments, and you wou d find it impofii hie for you to condemn the boldness of this Declaration, if you copd be sensible of the Racks which force me to it, and which anufi fitortly End me, if
not happy enough to be receiv’d • :
r. ^,
your Lover,
D’sangullier.
TI s
'• • ^ », •
V A..
\

 3 5
\
’tis impossible for me to express the griel and Vexation this Letter gave me, but I forbore showing it to Ch A R L L o T t a, knowing how much it would increase her Anguish, and reshlv’d when next I saw him, as I made no doubt biit I should quickly do, to use him in such a fashion, as in spite of his Vanity, shou’d make him know I was not to be won in such a manner, for I confess, my dear D.D. L m o n t, that his Timerity gave no less a fiiock to my Pride, then his Infidelity to her I really lov’d did to my friejtdjjdp : The next Day I was told a Gentleman enquir’d for me, I presently imaginst it was he, and went to the Grate, with a Heart full of Indignation, I was not deceiv’d in my Conjesture, it was indeed the Maruves s who appear’d on the other fide, but with so much Humility iji his Eyes, and awful fear, for what he saw in Mine, as half difarmst my Anger for what concern’d my self, and had his Pashon not proceeded from his Inconstancy, I might have been drawn to pity what was not in my power to Reward; but his base Usage of a Woman so Deserving as Charlotta made me Express my self in Terms full of Disdain and Detestation, and with out allowing him to Reply, or make any Excuses pluck’d the Letter he had Sent me out of my Pocket, with a design to Teturn it him, just at that Moment when a Nun came hastily to call me from the Grate : Some body had overheard the beginning of what I said, and had told the Ahhefs, who, tho’ she was not difpleas’d at what she heard of my Behaviour to him, yet file thought it improper for me hold any discourfe with a Man, who declar’d himself my Lover :
K 4 I
I
12( : Ori
did not, however, let her know who the Person was, fearing it might come to charlot ta’s Ears, and increase an Affliction, which was already too violent : I was vexed to miss the Opportunity of giving back his Letter, but kept it still about me, not in the least Questioning, but that boldness which had encourag’d him to make a discovery of his Desires, wou’d again least him to the Profbcution of them in the same manner, but I was deceiv’d, his Passion prompted him to take other, as he believ’d, more effectual Meashres: One Day, at least a Fortnight after I had seen the Marquess, as I was walking in the Garden with Charlotta, and another young Pen footer, a Fellow who was iin ploy’d in Taking away Rubbisti, told us there were some Statues carry’d by the Gate, which o pen’d into the Fields, wnich were the greatest masterpieces of Art that had ever been seen: They are going, said he, to be plac’d in the Seiur Va L i er? Garden, if you step but out, you may get a Sight of them : We, who little shfpested any Deceit, run without Consideration to satisfy our Curiosity, but instead of the Statues we ex pested to see, four Living Men difguis’d, muffl’d, and well Mounted came Galloping up to us, and, as it were furroundest us, before we had Time to get back to the Gate we came out at: Three of them alighting. seiz’d me, and 3uy Companions, and I, who was the destin’d Prey, was in a Moment thrown into the Arms of him who was on Horseback, and who no fboner receiv’d me, than as if we had been mounted on a Pegajiis, we seem’d rather to fy than Ride ^ in vain I strugl’d, shriek’d, aiid
cry’d
I

cry’d to Heaven for help, my Prayers were lost in Air, as quickly was my Speech, surprise, and rage, and dread, o’rewhelm’d my finking Spirits, and unable to Sustain the Rapidity of such violent Emotions I fell into a Swoon, from which I recover’d not, till I was at the Door of some House, but where, I yet am ignorant; the first thing I Saw, when I open’d my Eyes, was one of those Men who had been Astistant in my carying away, and was now about to Lift me from the Horse: : had not yet the power to Speak, but when I had I vented all the pash ons of my Soul in terms full of Distradion and Despair: By what means the People of the House were gain’d to my Ravishers Interest, I know not, but they took little Notice of the Complaints I made, or my Implorations for Succour : I had now, not the least shadow of a Hope, that anything but Death coust save me from Dishonour, and having vainly rag’d, I at last sat down meditating by what stieans, I shou’d Compass that only Relief from the woffe Ruin which seem’d to threaten me: While my Thoughts were thus employ’d, he who appear’d the chief of that insolent Company, making a Sign that the rest shou’d withdraw, fell on his knees before me, and plucking off his Vizard difcover’d to me the Face of the Marquess d’saguil lier. Heavens! how did this Sight inflame me? Mild as I am, by Nature, I that Moment
was all Fury! -- -- -- - ’till now I had not
the least Apprehension who he was, and believ’d ’twas rather my Fortune than my Person, which had prompted fbine daring Wretch to :
take
«
i ss   Ovy
take this Method to obtain it, but now, my Woes appear’d, if poshble, with greater Horror, and his Quality and Engagement with C HARLOLTA made the abl seem yet more
Bash. I Blame you not, said he. Oh di vinefi: Melliora 1 The Preshmption I am guilty Osh is of so high a Nature a;; may defer ve your utmost Rigour! — ^ I know, and confess my Crime.. — Nay, hate my self for thus offending you. -- But Oh! Tis unavoidable.
— Be then, like Heaven, who when Injured most, takes most delight to Pardon : Crimes unrepented, answer’d I, can have no plea for Mercy, still to perfist, and still to ask forgiveness, is Mocking of the Power we seem to Implore and but increases Sin— — me from this Captivity, which you have betray’d me into, Restore
me to the Monastery -- And for the future, cease
to shock my Ears with Tales of violated Faith, detested palsion 1 Then, I perhaps, may pardon whatispaji. His reply to all this was very lit' '
to the Purpose, only I perceiv’d he was sofar from complying with my Request, or repenting what he had done, that he refolv’d to proceed yet further, and one of his Astociates coming in, to tell him that his Chariot, which it seems he had order’d to meet him there, was ready, he offer’d to take me by the Hand to lead me to it, which I refufiiig, with an Air which te stify’d the Indignation of my Soul, Madam, laid he you are not here less in my Power, than you win be in a Place, where I can. Accommodate you in a manner more Suitable to your Quality, and the Adoration I have for you : If I were capable of a bafedefign on you, what hinders
but
0
■
s
 59
_ _______
but I now might perpetrate it > But be asmt’d your Beauties are not of that kind, which inspire Sentiments dishonourable; nor shdl you ever find aiiy other Treatment from me, that what might become the humblest: of your Slaves; my Love, fierce as it is, shall know it’s Limits, and never dare to Breath an Accent less Chast: than
^ * N
your own Virgin Dreams, and Innocent as your Desires
» »
H O' the boldiiefshe hadsheen guilty ost and still perlisted in, made me give but little Credit to the Latter part of his Speech, yet the Beginning of it awak’d my Consideration to a re stedtion, that I cou’d not indeed be anywhere in a greater danger of the Violence I fear’d, than where I was; but on the contrary it might So happen that in leaving that Place I might poshbly meet some Pershns who might know me, or at least be carry’d shmewhere whence I might with more likelihood, make my Escape: : this last Hope I went into the Chariot, and indeed, to do him justice, neither in our Journey, nor since I came into his House, has he ever violated the Proinife he made me; nothing can be with more humility than his Addresses to me, never vifit jng me without first having obtain’d my leave! But to return to the particulars of my Story, I had not been here many Days, before a Servant maid of the House, being in my Chamber doing Something about me, ask’d me if it were possible I coted forget her; the Question shr priz’d me, but I was much more so, when looking earnestly in her Face, which I had never done before, I perfectly distinguish’d the Features of Charlotta; Oh Heavens I cry’d I,
Char
14  : Or
Charlotta! The very same, said she, but I dare not stay now to unfold the Mystery, lest any of the Family take Notice, at Night when I undress you, you shall know the History of my Transformation.
ft
Never any Day feem’d so long to me as that, and I feign’d my self indifpos’d, and rung my Bell for somebody to come up, several < Hours before time I us’d to go to Bed, Charlotta guessing my impatience, took care to be in the way, and as soon as she was with me, not staying for my Requesting it of her, begun the Information she had promis’d, III this manner.
You see, said she forcing her self to y>ut on a half smile, your unhappy Rival follows to interrupt the Triumph of your Conquest, but I protest to you, that if I thought you esteem’d my perjur’d lover’s Heart an offering worthy your Acceptance, I never wou’d have disturb a your happiness, and ’tis as much the Hopes of being able to be Instrumental in serving you in your Releafement, as the prevention of that Bleshng the injurious D’saguillier aims at, which has brought me here : Of all the Persons that bewail’d your being carry’d away, I was the only one who had any Guess at the Ravisher, nor had I been fb wise, but that the very Day on which it happen’d, you drop’d a Letter, which • I took up, and knowing it the Marquess s Hand, V niade no scruple, of Reading it. Iliad nooppor ] tunity to upbraid you for the concealment of his falsehood, but the manner of your being leiz’d, convinc’d me you were Innocent of favouring
his
\
»
t
J
 41
his paltion, and his Vizard shipping a little on one Side, as he took you in his Arms, discover’d enough of that Face, I have sh much ador’d, for me to know who it was, that had took this Method to gain you : I will not continu’d she, weeping, trouble you with any Recital of what I endur’d from the Knowledge of my Misfortune, but you may judge it by my Love; however, I bore up against the oppreshve weight,, and refolv’d to struggle with my Fate, even to the Lash I made an Excuse for leaving the mo nastry the next Day, without giving any suspicion of the Cause, or letting anybody into the Secret of the Marquess, and dilguis’d as you see found means to be receiv’d by the house keeper, as a Servant, I came here in three Days after you, and have had the opportunity of being confirm’d by your Behaviour, of what I before believ’d, that you were far from being an Ash listant in his Dessgn.
Here the shrrowful Charlotta finish’d her little Account, and I testify’dthe Joy I felt in feeing her, by a thousand Embraces, and" all the Protestations of Eternal Friendship to her, that I could make: All the times we had any opportunity of Talking to each other, were spent in forming Schemes for my Escape, but none of them appear’d fealible; however the very Contrivance was a kind of Pleasure to me, for tho’ I began to banish all my Fears of the marquefs’s offering any violence to my Virtue, yet I found his Pashon wou’d not permitt him to suffer my Departure, and I was almost Distraded when I had no Hopes of being in a Capacity
'of
I
I, 1
I
IA   : Ocy
of hearing from you, or writing to you: Iri this fashion my dearest d’elmont have i liv’sh ^ Sometimes flattering myself with vain Projects; shmetimes desponding of being ever free: But ] last Night, Chralotta coming up, according |, to her Custom, told me in a kind of Raptiire that you, and my Brother were in the House, she, it seems knew you at Pans while her Mother was yet Living, and to make her entirely J easy as to the Marquess, I had now made her the Confident of my Sentiments concerning you i 1 need not tell you the Ecstasy this News gave me, you are too well acquainted with my Heart, not to be able to conceive it more justly than Language can Express; but I connot forbear informing you of one thing, of which you are ignorant, tho’ had Prudence any share in this love dirested Soul, I shou’d conceal it: My impatience to Behold you, was almost equal to my Toy to think you were sh near, and transported with my eager wishes, by charlotta’s Affi ^ stance, I last Night found the way into your Chamber : I saw you. Oh D’E L M o n t! My longing Eyes enjoy’d the Satisfastion they sh much defir’d, but yours Were clos’d, the Fatigue of your Journey hacl laid you fast a Sleep, sh fast, that even Fancy was unastive, and no kind Dream, alarm’d you with one Thought of Mel
hora I
She cou’d not pronounce these last words ' very Intelligibly, the greedjr Count devour’d ’em as she spoke, and tho’ Kisses had made many a Parentheiis in her Dishourfe, yet he restrain’d himself as much as poilible for the pleasure of
hearing
\
  j43
/ * '
hearing her; but perceiving she was come to a Periocl, he gave a loose to all the furious Transports of his ungovern’d Passion: A while their Lips were Cemented! riveted together with Kisses, shch Kisses! as Collesting every Sense in one, exhale the very Soul, and mingle Spirits! Breathless with bliss, then wmu’d they pause and gaze, then join again, with Ardour still en creafog, and Looks, and Sighs, and straining Grasps were all the Eloquence that either cou’d make use of: Fain wou’d he now have obtain’d the aim of all his Wishes, strongly he prefs’d, and faintly she repuls’d : dissblv’din Love, and melting in his Arms, at last she found no words to form Denials, while he, all fire, improv’d the lucky Moment, a thousand Liberties he took. — A thousand Joys he reap’d, and had infallibly been postest of all, if Charlotta, who feeing it broad Day, had not wonder’d at melliora’s stay, and come and knock’d at the Chamber Door, which not being fastend, 'gave way to her Entrance, but she made not shch hash but that they had time enough to disen^age themshlves from that close Embrace they had held each other in: Heavens’ Melliora, crv’d the care
J ^
full Interrupter, what mean you by this stay, which may be sh prejudicial to our Designs, tne Marquess is already stirring, and if he shou’d come into this Room, or send to yours, what might be the Consequence: I come, I come, said Mell i o r a alarm’d at what she heard, and rising from the bed fide: Oh, you will not. Said the Count in a whisper, and tenderly pressing her Hand, you must not leave me thus!
A Sew Hours hence, answer’d she aloud, I hope
to
14  : Or
■ /
have the Power to own my self all yours, nor can the Scheme we have laid fail of the Effests we wisti, if no Discovery happens to Postpone it : She was going with Charlotta out of the Chamber, with these words, but remembering her self, She turn’d hastily back, let not my Brother, reshm’d she, know my Weakness, and when you see me next, feign a surprise equal to
his own.
/
IT is not to be suppos’d that after she was gone, d’elmont, tho’ kept awake all Nighty cou’d fiiffer any Sleep to enter his Eyes, excels of Joy, of all the Passions, hurries the Spirits most, and keeps ’em longest bussed: Anger or Grief, rage violently at first, but quickly flag, and fink at last into a Lethargy, but flea fur e warms, exhillerates the Soul, and evert ra|3turous Thought infuses ncw Desires new Life, and added Vigour. ^
T H E Marquess De Saguillier Was no lest happy in imagination than the Count, arid it Was the force of that Pastion which had rouz’d him so early that Morning, and made him wait ■ impatiently for his Guests coming out of their Chambers, for he wou’d not disturb then : As shon as they were all come into the Drawing-room, I know not mefihures, laid he, with a Voice and Eyes whblly chang’d from thosh he wore the Day before, whether you have ever ''; ■ exjierienc’d the force of Love to that Degree that I have, but I dare believe you have gene rolity enough to rejoice in the good Fortune I am going to be poffefs’d of; and when I shall
in
4
r \ \
Fatal Inquiry ^45
• /
i
inforiii yu how I have long, languish’d in a Past lion, perhaps, the most extravagant that e ver was, you will confess the Justice of that God, who shon or late, seldom suffers his faithful Votaries to miss their Reward : The Count cou’d not force himself to a Reply to these Words, but frankville.and camii^la who were entirely Ignorant of the Cause of them heartily Congratulated him. I ash Confident, f efum’d the Marquess, that Despair has no ex istance but in weak and timorous Minds, all Women may be won by Force or Stratagem, and tho’ I had; almost, invincible Difficnlties to struggle with. Patience, Constancy, and a bold' ' artful Management has at length Surmounted them : hopeless, • by Distant Courtship to obtain the Heart of my Adorable, I found means to hnake my self Master of her Perfoit, and by making no other use of the power I had over her, than humbly Sighing at her Feet, convinc’d her my Designs were far from being Dishonourable and last Night, looking on me, with more kindness than she had ever done before!; My Lord, said she, your Usage of me has been too Noble, not to vanquish what ever Sentiments I may have been poffcst with to your Prejudice, therefore since you have Company in the House, who may be Witness of what I do,
I think I cannot choose a fitter time, than this, to bestow I nly feist before them, on him who most Deserves me: I will not now, continu’d he, delay she Confirmation of my Happiness fb long, as to go about to describe the Ecstasy I felt, for this so wish’d, and so unhop’d a Condefcenfi
L \ on,
f
....." \
r
I /
14  : Ot^
»
fion, but when, hereafter, you shall be told the whole History of my paision, you will be better able to conceive it; the Marquess had Scarce done Speaking, when his Chaplain came into the foom, saying he believ’d it was the Hour hi Lordship) order’d him to attend; it is lit is, cried the transported mafquefs. Now nty worthy Guests you shall behold the lovely Author of my Joys; with these words he left them, but immediately return’d, leading the intended
Bride: mon(ieur Frankville, tho’ he had not feenshis Sister in Some Years, knew her at the first Glimpse, and the Surprise of meeting her — -- Meeting her in sh unexpected a manner was sh great, that his Thoughts were quite confounded with it, and he cou d Ho otherwise Express itj than by throwing his Eyes wildly shmetimes on her, fometimesonthe Count, and shmetimes on the Marquess; the Count though appris’d of this, felt a Consternation for the Consequence little inferior to his, and both being kept filent by their different Agitations, and the Marquess, by the sudden Change, which he perceiv’d in their Countenances, Melliora had liberty to ex plain herself in this manner. I have kept my word, my Lord, Said stieto the Marqiiefs, this Day shall give me to him who best dieferves me; but who that is, my Brother and Count D’ E L M O N T. must determine, since Heaven has restor’d them to me, all Power of disposing of my self must Seash; Tis they must, henceforth itile the will'osmell lora, and only their consent call make me yours, all Endeavours wou’d be vain to represhnt the marq^^efds^ confusio^l at this, ' ■ - Sudden
• t
I ♦
  if
sudden Turn, and stis hard to say Whether his Astonishment, or Vexation was greatest; her Brother he wou’d little have regarded, not doubting but his Quality, and the Riches he wa postest of, wou’d easily have gain’d his gom pliance •, but Count D’ E L id o N t, tho’ he knew him not (having, for Some Disgust he receiv’d at Court, been many Years absent from Paris,) yet he had herd much Talk of him, and the pash on he had for Mell lorl, by the Adventure of Alo vy s a’s Death had made foo great a Noise in the World not to have reach’d his Ears *, he stood Speechlefs for slime time, but when he had a little recover’d himself, have you then deceiv’d she. Madam? Said he, No, answer’d she, I arii still ready to perform my promish, whenever
thesh Gentlemen shall Command me. -- -- -- The
bne my Brother, the other my Guardian, obtain blit their Consent, and — Mine, he can never have. Interrupted franstvilee hastily, and laying his Hand on his Sword. Nor mine, cry’d the Count, while I have Breath to fbnri Denials, or my Arm strength to gu^rd my Beautious Charge •, hold Brother, — Hold my Lord, faidmelliora, fearing their Fury wou’d produce slime fatal Effeists, themaravess has been so truly Noble, that you rather ought to Thank, than resent his Treatment of me, and tho’ I lee Rage in pur Eyes, and all the Stings 6f Disappointment glowing fietce in his, yet I have Hopes, a general Content may Crown
the End__^appear continu’d she, raising her
Voice, appear I Thou lovely faithful Maid j Come forth and Charm thy roving lover’s
L 2 Heaft,
M
«
14s, L eve in Excess r : Or,
/
Heart again to Constancy, to Peace, and thee!
She haduio shoner Spoke, then C h A r L p T ta entered, dressed like a Bride indeed, ' in a Suit of Clothes, which she had brought with her, in cafe any happy Opportunity shou’d arise for her to dilcovest herself: If the Marquess was before confoiindesh how much more fb was he now? That injur’d lady’s Presence, just at this jmidture, and the Surprise by what means she came there, made him utterly unable to reshlve on anything, which she observing, and taking advantage of his Confusion, run to him, and catching hold of his Hand; wonder not my Lord, said she, to see Charllotta here, nothing is impossible to Love like mine, tho’ slighted and abandon’d by you, still I purshe your Steps with Truth, with Tenderness, and Constancy untir’d! — — Then, perceiving he still was filent, come, my Lord, continu’d she, you must at last take.dity on my Sufferings, my Rival, Charming as she is, wants a fust fen cibility of your Deserts, and is by that less worthy even than I, Oh, then remember, if ■ not to me, what ’tis you owe your self your own exalted merits, and you will fbon determine in my Favour, and confess that she, who knows you best, ought most to have you •, she Spoke these Words in so moving, an Accent, and they were accompany’d with so many Tears, that the most rocky Heart ^ ruust have relented, and that the Marqiiefs was fensibly touch’d with em, his Countenance testify’cl, when sighing, and turning
his
»
I
i
/
 , 14.^
his Head a little away, not with Disdain, hut Remorse, for the Infidelity he had been guilty of: Oh cease. Said he, this Flood of softness, it gives me Pains I never felt before,
for his im'poshble you can forgive. -- -- Oh
Heaven! cryt she transported Charlotta,, all you have done, or ever can do of unkindness, is by one tender Word made full amends for; lee at your Feet, continu’d she falling on her Knees, thus, in this humble Posture, which best becomes my shostrate Soul, I beg you to accept the Pardon which I bring, to banish from your Mind all Thoughts that you have injiir’d me, and leave it free from all the generous Joys the making others happy
must create : This action of chralotta’s
^
joyn’d to the Reflection how strangly every foing happen’d to prevent his Dessgns on the other, won him entirely, and raising her with i a tender Embrace, put it out of her Power to regret his ever being false, since his return gave her a taste of Joys, which are not, but in Reconciliation to be found. ^
Trie. Count, Frankville, and the
two Ladys who had waited all this while in an impatient Expectation for the end of this Affair, now paid their Several Congratulations, allh ighly applauding the Constancy of Charlotta, and the timely Repentance of the Marouess : These Ceremonies being over, the Marqueys delir’d Charlotta to acquaint him by what means she had gain’d admittance to his Houfie unknown to him •, which Curiosity she
L \ ■ •
3 im
\ «
ft
/
f
I
\ •
\ '
•
«
\
7
  Ovy
immediately fatissying, engagm a new the Praises of the whole Company, and more endear’d herself to her belov’d marouefs’s Affections.
f ‘ ’ \.
\
I
tranq.villitv now reign’d in thosh Hearts which lately heay’d with various and’ disturb’d Emptions, and joy sat Smiling upoii ( every Cheek, entirely Happy in their feveraf wishes, they cou’d now talk of past Woes with Pleafiire, and began to enter into a very delightful Conversation, when Frankville on a Sudden missing Cam I L L a, and asking for her, one of the Servants told him she was gone to the?
Sick page’s Chamber, this News gave hiin same little alarm, and the rather because he had ofx ferv’d she exprefs’d a more than ordinary Tenderness and Care for test Page all the time of their journey; he ran immediately to the Room where he heard she was, and found her lying on the Bed, wsth her Arms round ftdelio’s Neck, and her Face close to his, this shocking Sight, had certainly driven the rashness of his Temper to commit fonie deed of Horror, if the the Amazement he was ■ in had not prevented it; he drew his Sword half out, btitthen, as if some Spell had charm’d his Arm, remain’d in that Posture, fix’d and motionless as Marble: Camiila half blinded with the Tears which fell from her Eyes, saw not the Confusion he was in, nor confider’d the Seeming Reashn he had to be So, but raising her Head a little to See who. it was that came into the Chamber, ph Frankville! laid she, see here the Ruins of .Dove, behold the Tyranny of that fatal Paffidn in this expiring Fair I But hast, continu’d ilie, find'
'
• %
 51
\
ing him ready to Saint, letcoimt d’elmont 3aiow, the faithful, 'generous'violetta Dies. -- • she dies for him, and ask no other Recompense, than a last farewell — Violetta Interrupted
Frankvlle, what means Camilla? This,
this is vlolett A, refum’d she, who like a Page dilguis’d has follow’d the too Lovely Conu t, and lost herself: The Rage, which at his first Entrance had postest the Heart of Frankville, now gave way to Grief, and coming near the Bed, he began to Testify it, by all the Marks which an unseign’d Concern cou’d give *, but this unfortunate Languisher, finding her Strength decay, prevented him from making any. long ■ Speeches, by renewing that Request, which Camilla had already made known, of feeing her dear Lord before she dy’d, which Frankville making hast to fulfil, she call’d to him as loud as her Weakness wou’d permit to come back, and as astbon as he was, Camilla, Said she, has inform’d me of my lord’s gooci Fortune in meeting with tyre Charmer of his Soul,
I wou’d not deprive him of a moments happi nefs. I therefore beg she’d give a dying Rival, leave to wish her jo3r, and as neither my Death, nor the cause of it can be a Secret, to any of the Company here, I destre they all maybe witnestes with what pleasure I welcome it 1 .DRANK V ILLE Fleiy as he was, had a vast deal of Compassion in his Nature, and cou’d not see fb Beautiful a young Lady, and one whom he had sh many obligations to, on the Account of his Affair with C a mill a, in this dispairing, and dying Condition without being seiz’d wish an Anguish inexpreshble; but
L 4 all
I

\
all the Pangs he felt were nothing, cornpp'^^ to those he gave D’ E L M q N in the Delivery of her Mefiage; he ran into the Room like a Man diftradfed, and in the hurry of his Grief, forgot even the Cpmplaifance he ow’d' to M E L L I Q R A, hut she was too generous tp dilapprove his Concern, iminediatly followed with her ibrother, the Marquess, andcharlot t A : What is it that I hear, Madairi? cry’d the C o u H T, throwing himself on the Bed by her, can it be possible that the admir’d
V I o L T T A cou’d forsake her Father, -- -- -
Country, — Friends -- foregoe her Sexes Pride, — '
the pornp of Beauty, -- -- gay Dresses, and all
. the Equipage of State, and Grandeur, to follow in a mean difguise, a Man unworthy flier Thoughts? Oh'. No more, said she weeping, you are but too, too worthy Adoration, Nor do I yet believe myr Love a Crime, tho’ the confe quence is foi might in Rome, with Honour and lnnocence have dyed, but by my shameful
flight, I was the murderer of my Father -- -- -
that, -- that’s a Guilt, which all these floods of
Penitence can never w^fh away -- -- -- Yet, bear
me w; itnels Heaven, how little I fuspeded the lad Event, wheii first, unable to Supporty°^^^ absence,
I contriv’d this way, unknown, to keep for ever in your sight •, I lov’d, stis True, but if one unchast Wish, or an impure Desire, er’e stain’d i my Soul, then, may the purging Fire to which lam going, miss it’s Esteft, my Spots remain, and not one Saint vouchsafe to own me : Here the force of where Passion, agitating her Spirits with too much Violence for the weakliest of her
‘ ' Bo
/
I
t
I
I
  I $ 3
Body, she sunk fainting in the Bed : And though the C o tr N T and Camilla felt the most; deeply her affli<stions, the one because they proceeded from her Love to him, and the other as having long been her Friend, and Partner of her Secrets, yet those in the Company who were most: Strangers to her, participated in her Sufferings, and commiserated the Woes they cou’d not Heal, and astbon as file recover’d from her Swoon, the generous Melliora, (not in the least: postest: with any of those little jealousies, which 'Women of narrow Souls harbour on fudi Occafionsj came nearer to the Bed, and taking her kindly by the Hand, Live, and be comfort ed, said she, i a Love sh Innocent Shall never give me any djsquiet. — Live and Enjoy the Friendship of my Lord, and if you please to favour me yrith yours, I shall esteem it, as it Deserves, a Blelnng. No Madam, anfvyer’d the now almost Expiring Violetta, Lite, after this shaiheful Declaration, wou’d be the worst of Punishments, but, not to be Ungrateful to so generous an Offer, for a few Moments I accept it, and like Chstdren, placeing their darling Play things qn their Pillow, and then contented go to steep, foi wou’d keep your Lord, wpu'd view him still while I awake to Life, then drop Incenfibly into a stumber of eternal ]?eace. This mournful Tenderness pierc’d D' E l m o N T, to the very Soul, and putting his Arm gently under her Head, which, he perceiv’d she Was too weak to raise when she endeavoured it, and laying his Face on one of her Hands, cou’d " hot forbear washing it in Tears, she felt the Cor;
; ■ ■ ^ • ' ♦ ■ 1
dial
\
^ 0
■
f
'________________
■/
tv
ft ' mi
  I Or |
• >
*
drops; and, as if they gave her a new Vi ^
exerting her Voice to the utmost of her j
Strength; this is too kind,, laid she, I now can j
feelnone of those Agonies which render Death - 1
the King of Terrors, and thus, thus happy in ■
your Sight, — — your Touch -- -- -- -- -- your tender j
pity, I can but bestranssated from one Heaven to another, and yet, forgive me Heaven if V it be a Sin, I cou’d wish, Methinks, to know no other Paradifo than you, to be permitted to ^ Hover round you, to form your Dreams, to sit up » your Lip all Day, to mingle with your Breath, and'glide in unfelt Air into your Bosom: : wou a have proceeded, but her Voice faltered ill the Accent, and all she spoke distinguishable was. Oh D’ E L M C N T receive in this one Sigh my latest Breath — it was indeed her last, she died that Moment, died in his Arms, whom more than Life she priz’d, and shre there are none who have liv’d in the Anxietys of Love, who woii’d, ^ not envy Such a Death!
y ftp
There was not in this noble Company, one whole Eyes were dry, but Count D’ E, L m o n t ' for slime time was inconsolable, even by M n l l i o R A, he forbore the celebrating of his fb eagerly defir’d Nuptials, as did the Marquess and Monjieur Frank V ills theirs, in com plaifaiice to him, ’till after V i o L e T t a was inter’d, which the Count took care shou’d be in a manner becoming her Quality, her Merit, and the Esteem he profescd to have born her; But when this m, elancholly Scencewas past, a Day of Joy succeeded, and one happy Hour
coii^
• '■ •• -■ : -
»
I
i
' .5st
confirm’d the willies of the three longing Bridegrooms; the Wedding were all kept in a Splendid manner at the m4raues s’s, and it was not without a eat deal of Reluctance, that he, and Ch arlqtt a suffer’d the Count, mo7tjienr Frankville, and their Ladies to take leave of them; when they came to Paris, they were joyfully receiv’d by the Chevalier Brill ian and aifselljna, and those, who in the Co u n t’s Absence had taken a liberty of censuring and condemning his Actions, aw’d by his Presence, and in time, won by his Virtues, now Swell his Praises with an equal V ehemence: Both he and Frankville, are still living, blessed with a numerous and hopeful istue, and continue, with their fair Wives great,
and lovely Examples of conjugal Affedlioh,
4
'a
f 1 N I S.
/
/
V
I
■ r •
'. I * •
» V
I
* * ^
t.
/ '■■■■•■. • ■.
* i' _
"" ^
#• .4 ^ ^ \
♦
^ -
> C ’
\ '
r '.. ■ ♦
•
'’ - ... *. ^ m
• A I'
^ • «
< • ' I • •
^'
.» • >, •
«
i. ’
* •, * i ^
4
\
t ' • ♦ •
. ■; \
4
• ^
• / I
i
i
ft
• /
/
^ %.
«
f
. \ -
*
/ •
»
'■ ^ '. ('
«>
»
✓
V
(
f
» /
1
K •
'/■

• .a
f
ri
\ ‘
t
X
• i’
f ’
•. V
r
j A
books Printed and Sold
by W. chetwood (the Poji
Houss) zt catci^s head^ under Towles Coffee hbufe^ ill %mffel - Street
Coven g ardent, ^
\
*
«
t •
1. THE Voyages, Travels, and dangerous
X Adventures of Capt. Richard Falconer. Containing the Laws, Customs and Manners of the Indians, in Several parts of America, ^ his Shipwrecks, his being left on Shore on the Island of Dominica, where to save his Life, he Was 6^ bliged to Marry an Indian Wife; his narrow Escape from thence after his Wife was kih’d. intermix’d with the Voyages of Thomas Randal, a West Indian Pilot, his being cast away in the Baltic, cc. being the only Man fav’d upon an uninhabited Island, c. With a curious Frontispiece.' Bound 5 s,
2. Spartan Dame, a Tragedy, by Mr. Southern. Price I 6d.
3. Ximena, or the Heroic Daughter, Written by Mr. Cibber, Dedicated to Sir Richard Steele.
IS. 6d.
4. bond man, or Love and Liberty, a Tragedy
^ \ s. 6 d. ^
5. Earl of Warwick, or the British Exile, a
Tragedy, is. 6d.
6. Love
\
I
u
JI
$
%
■
»,. 1' -. ' fr * ■' i
A Love in a Veil a Comedy, By Mr. Savage
t s. 6 u. '
7* Tray tor, a Tragedy, is. dd. I
8j Two Harlequins in French ahd En^ujtj, a Co \
I'J* yd \
Fairof St..dershains, a Cbmedy. ij.
i b. Antibchtis aiid Stratonice; a Novel, by Mr, Lheobald. bo^dd 2/.
11. crawford’s idoveis Complete, found 2 i. 6 d. »
12. Orpheus and Eurydice, by Mr. Weaver. I st
13. The Chevalier de St. George, a heroic comical Foem. i s.
14. Cynegetica, br the Force and Pleashre of Hunting, by Mr. ikfor^dw. I iu
i; ^. richard‘the Third, a Tragedy, by Mr. Cf^
hef, IS,
■ I • I.
l distrefs’d Mother by Mr; ir.
1-7. Sir Walter Raleigh by Mr. setpel 1 s, 6 d,
18. Jane Shore, a Tragedy, by Mr. Row, is, di
19. Jane Grey by the same Aiithor. is.
20. thespaniard, or don Zara del Fogo, a Korel \
IS. 6 d.
, 21* Amorous Widow, or the Wanton Wife, t $.
22. The most Entertaining History of Hyppolitd and Aminta, being a Collection of delightful Novels. Price Bound 2 s. 6 d,
^3. The Pastoral Amours of Daphnis and Chloe, ^
with cuts curiously engrav’d. i s. 6 d.
24.. Steel's Christian Hero. is.
25. Amours and Letters of Abelard and Heloife is. 6d.
26. Etheridge plays Complete or Single,
27. rowe’s Works Complete, in 3 Vol. with Cuts. Bound icj.
2 8. Vanbriige’b
I
\
Plays i Vol. Cornpleat.
'y. Criticlcs, being an impartial Account of the present Times. Written by Mr. brerewn, ^
late of brdzen pofe College, oxo7t. Bound 2s.6d.
'2d. Censors in 3 Vol. Complete, Bound 6 J.
3 !• Letters of Love and Gallantry in 2 vol with Cuts. T b
32- Gratii Falifei Cynegeticon, cis. Sd.
^ 33. Elements o7 Christian Piety, 6 d, ~
34. fontenevs Letters by Mr. Ozel. is. 6d.
3^. on the small pox. ispsd,
36. Lucius Florus in eiijrjf/7; .’ as.,
37. Daily Practice of Devotion, is. 6d,
38. She v/ou’dand She wou’d not, a Comedy by
Mr. Cibber. A s. ■ V ^
_ __________, ♦
37. countrylaffes, or the Custom of the Manner a Comedy, u.
40, Ignoramus, or the English Lawyer, a Comedy. IS.
41. Beaus Duel, or a Soldier for the ladies/a ■comedy, ir.
42* Manlius Capitolinus, a Tragedy, i s.
43. dituioj on the Soul. is.
/ *
44. Tale of a Tub. 2 s.
47. Fatal Marriage, a Tragedy by Mr. Southern,
is.
46. All for Love, or the World well lost, i
47. dewhiiwi’s Poems in 8vo. or 12®.
48. Prince of Carency, a Novel. 45.
49. ee/r’s Geography. 2 s. 6d.
50. Shmn Marqiiefs, a Comedy. ts.6d.
51. Tis well if it takes, a Comedy. i s, 6 d.
52. 6’^ru4^e’s Art of Prudence 3^. •
53. Lux
I
^ /
Ji
55. Lux Orieiitalis. 3!. ]
54. Bishop of St. Afaphs 4 Sernions. i s. 6 d. |
ss. History of the Islands of Orkney, is. 6 d, |
56. brojtk’s Works 4 Vol. with Cuts. lof. i
y. tvingatd.s arithmetichbest. ‘^s. S d. I
58. Church of England man’s Communicant. 45^ - 1
y<y. Dyke on Proverbs. 35.,
60. Poems by my Lord Surrey, sindchq^as jvyat and others. Written, in the Reign ot.i^irig I
the 8 th. 3^. 6d. '' ^1
61. Countess of northumberland’s Devotion. 6d. |
ii Athenian Sports, s. 6d. %
6"^. stevens’s fdistory of Perjia. 35. 6d.
64. Giiardians in 2 Vob Complete. s.
6s. spiitps Poems. 35..
66. Duke of nor/ozfstryal., Bound is. 6d.
j. echard’sterence, as,
68. Ovid's Epistles engliji}. a s.
6g. Sir Richard steele’s Miscellanies. 3r.
70. Visions. 2^.
71. grm^r^j/s Existence of God 2$.
72. Pills to purge Melancholy 5 vol 135.. ^
73. Fatal Effects of Arbitrary Power. 2^. 6 d.
74. miscellanea Aurea 3
75. A New Voyage to the Eajl Indies by Francis. Leqiidt, and his Companions, containing their Adventures in two desart Islands, and an Account of the most remarkable Things, in afin/ric!? Island, Batavia, at the Cape of Good
Hope, the island of St. he/ews, adorn’d with various Charts and Cuts of Birds, Beasts, and Fishts. Bound s ^
The Siege of damascus, a Tragedy, by the late Mr. Hughs.
Where may be had all sorts of pla}?’s, Novels, Pamphlets and New Bcoks.
\
/
/
