 
• ♦ ♦
'la
.•
) v'
THE
happy EXTRAVAGANT:
O R,
MEMOIRS
O F
CHARLES CLAIRVILLE, Esq.
X
In T W O VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
By the EDITOR of the WANDERER.
Quiddeceat, quid non Virtus. qu6 ferat Error.
^ Hor.
LONDON:
Printed for Francis Noble, at his Circulating
Library in Middle Row, Holborn;
AND
John Noble, at his Circulating Library in St. martin’s Court, near Leicefter square,
MDCCLXVIII.
T O
My Worthy Friend,
A N D
ever honoured Patron,
9'
N O
O D Y.
Mofl respectable Sir,
T a time, like this, when literary
productions are So cheap, and literary merit is so much disregarded, you will permit me to
lay at your feet this little piece; in favour of which, I promise myself to meet with your patronage
and protection.
A 2
Na
\
IV DEDICATION.
t
No doubt, fotne will think my conduct extraordinary, and censure me for prefixing this Dedication :
Methinks
This
‘ is the flrangefi: whim! The mofi: * ridiculous conceit! It were better ‘ he had dedicated to Every
Bony,
and then Somebody
‘ might have accepted it.’ But do these gentlemen forget the old
Everybody No
is
adage _
y; and that he who seeks to please all, will seldom be liked by any? Besides, nothing can be more proper than this address from one whom Nobody knows, and, probably, Nobody cares for.
It
DEDICATION.
V
It is to You alone, then, resped: able Sir, that I must commend my work, relying on your wonted goodness 5 You have always
been a friend to me and mine, and never failed me, at a pinch. Were I disposed, like other dedicators, to give the public a detail of my patron’s virtues, I could fill a whole volume with Yours; but knowing that you have a very great aversion to flattery, I forbear, in compliment to your modesty; elfe might I enumerate a long train of ancient ^perfedions, and disinterested virtues, which You inherit from
s
your ancestors, and which of late,
indeed, I believe Nobody has laid a just: claim to.
A 3
For
VI DEDICATION.
For my own poor part, I am proud to say, that from You only,
of late, have I received any assistance
: when all my friends dropped from my fide, you generously flood by me; and it is to You, alone, that
I owe, at present (under Heaven), my rank, as an Authorand my very existence, as a Man.
\

Accept then. Sir, this token of that respect: which (in gratitude) I am ever bound to show You and believe me to be, with great deference and refpeil,
SIR,
\
Your very obliged, and entirely devoted servant.
The EDITOR
\
THE
CONTENTS
OF THE
FIRST VOLUME.
CHAP. I.
Eflexions — Birth of our Hero — His
Mai
la

Removed to his Uncle and
guardian’s house.
CHAP. II
Page I
Description of Mr. Selby — Portrait of
his Daughter — Mr. colville’s character— — Love Scene. $
chap. III
/
Colville pursues his Courtfliip of Emily A Disappointment j and its consequences.

21
CHAP,
• • •
VIII
The CONTENTS.
CHAP. IV
Hilfory of miss Nancy Maynare colville’s Courage put to the Tell The blindness of Prejudice. 28
CHAP. V
A closet Conversation — Charles departs
from his uncle’s house. CHAP. VI
3^
A Night adventure — charles’s Journey delayed by an unlucky Accident. 41
CHAP. VII
Our Hero Sets out for London — A Sketch
of Characters— — Arrival.
CHAP. vlii.
49
Charles settles in Town — An Amour An unexpected Meeting — A Challenge.
CHAP. IX
57
Amy AND Separates himself from our Hero
He commences Acquaintance with
Mr. Truelock — Some extravagant
Adventures. 64
CHAP.
The CONTENTS.
C HAP. X
IX
History of Miss Maria Aubrey. 76
C H A P. XL
History of miss Aubrey concluded. 86
CHAP. Xil.
Adventure of Mr. Truelock with
That lady is re
Mrs. Williams
moved to Mrs. harley’s — An un expedled meeting.
loi
CHAP. XIII
%
Charaderof Mr. Sharpley — Good Advice thrown away.
106
CHAP. XIV
An extraordinary Scheme — Defer: ption of
Mrs. Barclay and her Daughters, in
C H A P. XV
t
A great Disappointment — Mr. Sharp
lay s consolatory Advice on the

Occasion.
119
CHAP.
X
The CONTENTS.
C H A P. XVI
A Transition from Bad to worse — A Struggle between Pride andreason. 125
CHAP. XVII
»
Mr. Clairville distressed
Schemes
with Sharpley to keep up his Credit
%
His strange Behaviour to a real
Friend.
CHAP. XVIII
131
Two Letters, in a very different Style Anodd Adventure with a Lady, 135
C H A P XIX
A dismal Scene, and a dismal Dialogue Clairville Suffers for Heroic Virtue.
146
CHAP. XX
A very Short Chapter.
160
CHAP. XXL
Charles turned Man of Business— — with Sample and another old Friend.
163
CHAP.
The CONTENTS.
CHAP. XXII
XI
A friendly Surprise, and its consequences— — preposterous Journey un
4
dertaken in a preposterous Manner. 166
CHAP, xxiir.
Mr. Clairville determines to go Abroad — A Digression, with Reflections on the Spouting Society, and the
Stage in general.
174
CHAP. XXIV
Strictures on the Robin Hood Society; with an Account of Some of its Members — Charles. admitted there. 183
C H A P. XXV
Charles becomes acquainted with Mr. Mackenzie — Is entertained by that
Gentleman.
i
O
CHAP. XXVI
Bad' Effeas
of a good
Judgement
Charles breaks off his Acquaintance
with Mackenzie.
^ 195
CHAP.
4 •
XU
The CONTENTS;
CHAP. XXVII Mr. Clairville applies tomr. L
at
the old Theatre — Is referred to Mr.
G
G
Lodgings.
supposed mad at his
198
CHAP. xxvill.
A curious Conference with Mr. G
G
Scheme.
Charles drops his Playhdufe
203
CHAP. XXIX
Mr. Clairville fitted out for the East Indies — Meets a good Friend, who
prevents him from going. 207
/
CHAP.
Charles prepares to go abroad in earnest
Reflections on Happiness, 219
CHAP. XXXI
Charles embarks on Board the Eagle
Some Account of the Officers and
Passengers.
223
THE
<( C scm FM ^
<	<MM> L J C^M> >
\ MM km ji >
THE
HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT:
O R
MEMOIRS
O F
Charles C L a r r V i L L e, esq;

CHAP. I.
Reflections — Birth of our Hero — His Maltreatment by his father-in-law — Re
^ %
to his Unde and guardian’s house.
is. remarkable, that Na
X ^ throughout all her works,
has taken a particular care to
/
Ihev/ us that She can Sometimes ad, as it
V OL. I.
•.
B
were.
2

were, counter to her own laws j and yet Hill bring all things about in Such a manner,
as, by a certain economy, to answer her own ends at last. And of this dis polition file has not only given us instances,
in the various elements, plants, and animals, but also in men; having created, in all periods of time, Some ex --
iraordinaries, who, indeed, have gene
0
rally appeared to be her peculiar favourites : whereas others have palted
through the world by prudaice, and the mere dint of their own industry; these have been ever supported and directed by Nature, as if, conscious of their inability to go through the stream of life, which they are perpetually failing in direct opposition to, She had herself condescended to become their pilot, and guide them through many difficulties into the haven
of Fortune •, but yet, withal, in so shattered


3
tered a condition, that few would envy their happiness who were witnesses to the dear purchase they paid for it.
One of this sort was Charles Clairville,
#
Esq, whose life is to be the Subject of the following sheets. So early as at the
age of five years, he lost his mother,
%
which was, indeed, to him the beginning of misfortunes. For his father-in-law, her second husband, was a man of
a rugged temper, and most invincible obstinacy, who looked on his fon rather as a piece of domestic property, than as a rational being entrusted to his charge: his education, in consequence, he took no care of, farther than that, merely for
his ov/n credits sake, he suffered him to go through some of the ordinary forms at a public school j and on his return, as he never entertained any great affeduon
B 2
for
4

for him, and cared not for his company, he ever removed him, as much as possible,
from his sight, employing hiiil generally, as a Sort of affillant to his bai
V
liff; and whenever he, unavoidably, camie into his presence, treated him with So
little tenderness, that the youth was glad to Ihun him. By a strange and absurd maxim, he was conilantly denied not only
every little relaxation he was inclined to, but even curtailed of many of the necessaries
of life.
Such a behaviour, unnatural and un merited, often caused, Charles, whose temper, was very warm, to fly out into bitter
invedives against: his ftep father, from whence Mr. Morley took as frequent occasions to repeat his ill usage, and name these very circumstances, with many aggravations, as the causes of his want of
tenderness.
Hence

5
Hence arose hatred, distrust, and a total estrangement of every degree of love ' in his fon in law, together with the rise of that" extravagant .and careless temper which wrought him perpetual unealinefs in the Subsequent Scenes of his life. Too true it is that, on the first imprefiions le ceived in early youth, the colour of our future temper generally depends. For being perpetually thwarted alike in all his desires, whether reasonable or unreasonable, whether laudable or blameable, a sort of habitual careleltnefs and indifference to everything, but pleasure, succeeded
; and he was resolved to pursue liwhenever he found opportunity) with an equal eagerness, all his desires, without
i
so much as giving himself time to consider of their propriety. A natural im
petuqsity of temper, joined to the ardour
B 3 of
6

I
of youth, and a levity of imagination, augmented the growing evil, and kindled in his bread; those embers which, in tirne, burd; out inta a flame So much the more fierce, and outrageous, by how much they had before been smothered.
The small fortune of his deceased parent was left in trufl: to an uncle on his mother’s fide, who, on account of the ill lisage his nephew received at home, of which he had, more than once, been a witness, had several times offered to take him under his proteflion; but Mr. mor lay as often opposed his design; till, at
lafl, the former, assuming the authority of a guardian, demanded what before he had entreated; and the latter, not caring to make it a law affair, consented, though with great reluctance, to part with his charge.
'Whatever

7
Whatever, might be Mr. motley’s reafbn for being thus unwilling to give up, to the guardianihip of another, a hated relation, we shall not, in this place, inquire into; Suffice it to say, that Mr. Selby, his uncle, received him with
a real affection, and Seemed, in earneff, resoived to make up to him the loss of
his parents, and to make him amends for
the cruel treatment he had received from his ftep father.
B 4
CHAP.
8

C H A P. II
/
Description of Mr. Selby — Portrait of his'daughter — Mr. colville’s character— — Love Scene.
/
/
H U S released from his bondage, our adventurer once more beean to
o
s
tade the Sweets of liberty, and experience the tender care of a relation. Mr. Selby was a widower about fifty, of a free, cheer full dispofition, a Social friend, and an
a
agreeable companion. Pie had one only daughter, who was called Emilia, and
at the age of fifteen, many charms of mind and person. She was of
the msiddling stature, well fiiapec^ and of a graceful deportment. Her haif and eyebrows were of a dark brown j her eyes black and piercing *, her complexion fair as alabaster j her manner brific,
and

9
and lively, and her whole behaviour very engaging: yet was she of a turn, exceedingly
romantic, wild, and fond' of novelty.
Charles, whose age was little Superior
to her own, was Struck with the figure of this agreeable female, and for the first: time entertained for her, in his bosom,
a passion to which he Scarcely yet knew how to give a name; nor was the young damsel insenfible to the manly graces which already began to display themselves in the youth, but felt, whenever she Saw him, an agreeable sensation of
pleasure, yet So mixed with a conscious fear, as often caused a crimson blush to overspread her face, which rendered her still more, lovely.
\
But about this time the - Son of a
%
neighbouring gentleman was encouraged.
B 5
by
10
by her father, to pay his addresses to her,
chiefly, indeed, on account of his wealth *, since Mr. Selby, whose fortune
had Suffered greatly by embarking in the South Sea Scheme, together with our hero’s late father, was well aware that he had not a great deal to bellow with his
daughter in marriage; but this her lover
was So eager in the pursuit of her for a millress, and was So much the darling of his father, that he could deny hiro' nothing; So that Mr. Selby was given to underdand, that no terms would be infilled on, provided the match between the young couple could be concluded.
Such an offer was too advantageous to be rejected; and her father, who never once dreamed of a courtship carrying on between his ward and daughter, did all in his power to perfnade her to accept it;
and,

II
and, really, was not a little Surprised to find her averse to the addresses of the person he had chosen for her. True it was, that he had not, indeed, all the accomplishments that appeared in Charles; but these, her father thought, might well be
dispenfed with, considering the vail addition of wealth, and grand alliance
t
which the match would produce to their family. Meanwhile, his ward had absolutely made a declaration of his passion to Emilia, and the young pair were far gone in love. But of this hereafter.
It may not be amiss, perhaps, in this place, to give the reader Some idea of the person and family of charles’s rival, whom we flaall have occasion to make frequent and honourable mention of, in
the course of this history.
Mr.

12
Mr. Leonard Colville, or, as he was called, by way of eminence, young
’squire Colville, was the Son of Sir Giles Colville, baronet, poirdted of an
estate of upwards of four thousand pounds a year', in the most fruitful part of Kent. He was a tall, well made youth, but of an aspect and deportment rather fierce and forbidding, than winning and engaging. In his temper, he
was eager and obstinate, haughty and reserved; lewd withal, yet had so great a share of self-love, that he generally took care not to bring himself into any disagreeable Situations by the'gratification of his pafiicns. Even Emily, whom he courted with eagerness, he could not help sometimes.
as
it were, looking
down upon as, an inrerior 5 and, in some
of his haughty sits, hinted at the honour ‘ done

^3
• * done to her family by his proffered al' '
Such a behaviour, alone, would have been Sufficient to ruin him in her
esteem, but there were many other cir
climltances which contributed to do the » •
bufihess.
Warm, youthful, lively, dnd im prelfed with' all the extravagant notions
of romance, ffie had the strongest ex pedations of ardour, mixed with tenderness,
in a lover; and colville but ill answered
the picture her imagination had formed; Charles, who Succeeded, eclipsed him. She therefore threw aside all thoughts of the former, and gave herself
entirely up to the pleasing consideration of the latter.
It was in a pleasant grove, behind Mr. selby’s garden, that young 'Mr. Clairville firll made known his passion
to;
I’4,
(
to the young, the gay, the lively Emilia. She had reclined herself upon a green bank, her eye fixed on the limpid fiream; whilfi: the youth played, on a flagelet, sost strains of love, Such as were calculated to Iboth the mind, and lap it in a kind of heedless ecitasy. Charmed
with the enchanting Sounds, and warmed, as she was, with real tenderness, Charles thought it a proper time to unfold his heart, which he did with all the ardour of youthi all the faltering, yet per fuasive eloquence of an infant passion. Pausing a while, she sate as if struck
dumb with what Ilie had heard : at last,
railing herself, leaning her rosy cheek upon her hand ‘ I know not, Mr. Clair
‘ whether I ought to
^ ville, ’ Said she, ‘
‘ underhand you; but since you have *■ spoken plainly, I will throw aside af ^ fetation : and I muh tell you
Ah!
con
THE HAPPT EXTRAVAGANT.
15
‘ consider, at leall a moment, before * you pronounce my doom, ’ Said the lover.
Seeing her brow contraded, ‘ nor ‘ condemn me to despair, nnpitied, nay,. ‘ unheard j for much yet remains un ‘ told, much yet havel to plead.’ — ‘ And’ ‘ what, ’ returned Emilia, ‘ can you plead,, ‘ and I give ear to, consiilent with —
9
‘ Talk not of consiitencies to a heart ^ so touched as mine : either Speak to'
t
‘ me a word of comfort,, or prepare to ‘ see my ruin.’ — ‘ Still, ’ replied Ihe, in a Softened tone, ‘ Still do you interrupt me,.
‘ and cross me in my discourfe, before I ‘ have concluded : But hear me with at ‘ tendon, and yourself fliali confess the' ^ juftiee of my awards Reply not, but
* attend. I mult tell you, I cannot, con
‘ Siftent with the duty I owe my father,,
‘ entertain ( however favourably my
‘ heart were inclined) any thoughts of
‘ you as a lover.' — You know, Sir, or
‘ you.
i6

‘ you may know, that the Son of a ‘ neighbouring baronet is authorised, by ‘ my parent, to address me as a wife.
‘ Mr. Colville, Sir, claims of me all
✓
‘ that encouragement I can, in my Single
9
‘ State,, grant to one of your Sex; yet,
^ were I free to choose, be Satisfied, he
N ^
‘ never Should be the man of my choice :
‘ yet now what remains’ — ‘ Too lovely,
‘ and too cruel maid, ’ Said Charles, ‘ ah!
‘ how can a love, like mine, be thus an ‘ fvvered, thus reprefied? What! if the
V
‘ will of a parent, too careless of his
‘ child’s happiness, urges him to dispose.
0
‘ of her hand where her heart cannot
K
‘ confirm the choice, .mull her free mind
j
‘ be thus fettered, and mufi; She yield
I f
‘ herself a mute viflim to his unreason ‘ able demands.? reason, nature, and ‘ propriety, all forbid it, and call loudly
‘ fox


® for their rights. Let us, then, my fair ‘ one (pressing her hand) indulge an in ‘ nocent, a mutual passion, and fear not ‘ that it will ever be imputed to us as a ‘ crime. Thou dearest, thou mofl; lovely ‘ of thy sex, receive my ardent vows,
I j
‘ receive my plighted faith; whilst; now
I Swear’
But here his miftress inter
i
rupted his rapture, crying, ‘ And where
/
‘ have you learned, Mr. Clairviile, that
1
‘ our love, as you term it, is mutual ‘ I miifl; hear no more of this. Sure, if ‘ I' told you I disapproved the addresses of Mr. Colville, I did not encourage ‘ yours, I think I did not— — ‘ ‘ why am I disagreeable in your fair ‘ eyes? Unhappy as I am, what is there ‘ in me that disgufts you K If my whole ‘ life, devoted to your Service, can merit an approving Smile, behold, I am ready
‘ to
N
28

/
‘ to make the Sacrifice! but I see tnj,
‘ Sentence is going to be pronounced:
•<
'yes, too cruel maid, doom me at once ‘ to misery, and behold me. perish by ‘ your Scorn.’ Moderate, Mr. Clairville, ’
returned the lady, ‘ these indecent transr

ports : you
are far from being disagreeable
in
my Sight: I value, I ‘ eheem youj but’ — ‘but what, my ‘ lovely one? Ah! proceed to deliver ‘ me from this cruel fuspense. What, ‘ Silent 1 ' How Shall I interpret those * crimson bluihes, that half averted eoua ‘ tenance? Am I then happy in your
approoation i
?
And if Mr. Clairville
‘ were so happy, as he terms it, surely
‘ he would not enlist on my declaring it,
‘ circumstanced as I am? Oh! I am ‘ cruelly perplexed : press me not, then,
‘ to. own what, known, must make us
‘ both

19
‘ both unhappy. But I have Said too ‘ much.’ — ‘ Oh heavens! Said Charles, (catching her in his arms) ‘ and does my
‘ fair one then, indeed, deign to look on
A
‘ me with a favourable eye? She does,
I
‘ Ihe does : that beauteous glowing coun ‘ tenance, those eyes,; which Speak with ‘ silent eloquence, inform me that she does. What then Shall bar my happi ‘ ness, if her consenting will? — ’ — ’ My ‘ father’s disapprobation, ’ Said she, sighing,
and disengaging herself from his
/
embraces, ‘ our youth, our inexperience :
‘ yet oh! my torn heart!’ — A tender
scene ensued j after which, miss Emily recounted to him all that llie knew; and we have already informed the reader concerning Mr. Colville *, in consequence of Vv'hich it was resolved, that they should
keep

20
THE kappr EXTRAVAGANT
keep their mutual inclinations (for Such they were now, Sufficiently proved to be) a Secret from every one, and with a watchful eye regard the conduct of our hero’s rival.
\ •
\
C A
C U A P.

2 I
CHAP. III
Colville pursues hiscourtfhip of Emily
A Disappointment; and its consequences.

R. Colville, in the meanwhile, pi*o secuted his Suit with vigour, and made not the lead doubt of fuccess, Emilia dissembling, as much as pouible, her diliike of him; and her father, in consequence of/this arrangement, began to congratulate himself on his own fagar city, and the dutiful' compliance of his
daughter. So fully pepsuaded was he of bringing his Scheme to bear, that he even exulted on the promised success of it to Charles, little thinking how disagreeable Such a'fubjedt was to him.
But
\

2
Burr it vas not lonp^ ere he was undeceived i for the young lovers now began to be frec uent iri their meetings ♦, and as
carelessnels vasa part of our hero’s cha
\
radler, his whole amour was discovered, by one whom he had been imprudent
.enough to make his enemy.
When firll he arrived at his uncle’s, a
distant relation of the late Mrs. Selby, who had formerly lived as her companion, and still remained in the family with the title of housekeeper, had cafb her eyes upon him in a very favourable manner, and was greatly prepohelfed in his favour, which flae failed not to de monltrate, by every means in her power;
♦
and he became, at last, So fensible of it, that he began to make Some returns of
kindness j for Ihe was a fine, lively, bru)
)

N


23
nette, about the age of twenty-five,
whose rolling eye, and heaving bosom, discovered. Sufficiently, her amorous complexion. The Sanguine conllitution and inclinations of Charles had nearly brought
his affair with her to a crisis, when he came to an eclairciffement with his dear Emilia, who gained So much upon him as entirely to fill his imagination, and make him almost forget miss Nancy
t
Maynard (for So she was called). Finding her new conquest Snatched, as it were, away from her, this lady began to redouble her assiduities, and had abfb lutely So far awakened his desires, that
he made an appointment to meet her, at a certain hour one evening, in her chamber; but, previous to this, he was Summoned to attend his uncle, who wanted
his alfiftance in Some business relative to
his
N
8 4
Tii£ HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
his private affairs; and juff as he had
«
qtiitted him, and was hastening to the place of dellination, having unavoidably
over ftayed his time, emilia’s maid put a
note into his hand from her miflress, in which the latter desired to See him in the garden. It was about the hour of eight, on a Summer evening *, and when Charles
attended her, he Sound her in a very melancholy humour. She informed him, that her father had, that very day, acquainted her of his intention of matching her, within, a fgrtnight, to Mr. Colville;
and being not a little surprised at her en
/
to raise objedsions to his commands, had spoken to her, in a tone far more per^^mptcry than he was accustomed
to do. A long conversation ensued, in the course of which, Emily ciiscovered a very good heart, and a judgement far
fro m

25
from contemptible, though it was but too evident, that a romantic turn of mind often over balanced her better reason. At last, ‘ Thus, ’ Said fly. Sighing, ‘ you ‘ see the elfeds of our unhappy passion: ‘ we mull forget it, or be miserable.’
‘ Forget!’ replied Charles *, ‘ rather will ‘ I forget my being, and fink, at once.
‘ to my primitive
nothing.
What
‘ power can compel us to cease to love?
‘ What crime, but our own, can deprive ‘ us of happiness? No, my Emily, itde
‘ pends on us, alone, to Secure to our ‘ selves that felicity we wilh for !’
‘ And how, alas!’ said Ihe — You have ‘ heard my father’s rigid commands.’
‘ Heavens! what are his commands' replied the youth. ‘ Quick let us fly ‘ from hence 1’ — ‘ And is it thus, ’ said she, darting back, ‘ that you would re
VOL. I.
C
pay

‘ pay his kindness, and my esteem, by ‘ raviihing from him an only daughter.
and exposing me to want and misery;
‘ for where is our dependance ?’ Charles excused, as well as possible, his raili proposal, and easily obtained forgiveness
for the fault of love: but while they were thus employed in consultation, Miss Maynard, impatient of charles’s delay, had iltued from her chamber, and de!
!
the back flairs, where the firll thing that met her eyes was emily’s note, which her lover had dropped beside his pocket. Having read it, with a heart
glowing with resentment, she followed them to the garden, and, hiding herself behind Some bullies at the back of the
ftimmer house, overheard a great part of their difcourse, and got home before them; for the youthful pair flay’d till
the

27
the moon, then past her full, arose; when, lighted by her beams, they returned, hand in hand, to the houle; which, however, they entered by different
ways, where they found supper waiting for them.

\
C 1
CHAP.
28

CHAP. IV
Hillory of miss Nancy Maynard colville’s Courage put to the Tell
The Blindness of Prejudice.
A Disagreeable night the disappointed
girl experienced, and lay waking
me
* ^
the filent hours, the prey of lancholy reflections: for though She had before been Seduced, yet it was So early in youth, and the betrayer had behaved
so balejy, and had, besides, been So long
absent from her, that Ibe retained not
\
the least; regard for him, and was absolutely in love with our adventurer.
She was the daughter of Mrs. selby’s cousin, a tradesman in London, who had educated her with the most tender care,
V
and.


29
and, indeed, Spoiled her, by too much indulgence. Dying, he left her mother in circumstances but very indifferent, when the nephew of an eminent mercer in cheapside paid his addresses to this her child, then not fifteen years of age. Indeed she had but little inclination to matrimony; and it was chiefly by her mother’s advice that ffe encouraged him, the good gentlewoman little fuspecling that he had any dishonourable designs. This artful seducer, however, persuaded them, after his courtihip had continued for about three months, to permit miss Nancy to take a jaunt to the country house of an aunt of his in Hertfordfliire,
whither, he Said, he Soon should follow her. This being agreed, miss fet out, accordingly, with her condudrefs •, and the youth followed the next day. About a
C
3
week


THE HAPPY EXTRRVAGANT.
week She passed here very agreeably, till one evening her lover, having previously
provided an elegant concert and Supper, by means of a Scandalous infusion in her
liquor found means sofar to intoxicate her, as to make a conquest of her honour, though he was, indeed, partly obliged to force for the poiteflion of her person, the good lady whom he called his aunt assisting him, even So far cut down her stays; and so fensible was
he of this, that, finding his millrefs deaf to all entreaties for a reconciliation, he and his good aunt (who was a notorious
as to
I'
bawd) decamped together.
The house, in which fly now found herself alone, she was Soon informed, was
only hired for one week, for that Scandalous purpose j and she was forced to
return
a


Shame and indi^
o
return, glowing with nation, to her mother, who Survived this
and with grief for
affair but two months,
r ^
her daughter’s misfortune, which, indeed,, was great, and her own ill success, in trade, might' truly be said to die of a broken heart..
Thus early ruined, and her hopes of future fortune blasted, She accepted the offer of Mrs. Selby, of living with her as a companion, reserving about an hundred pounds, which vas all the poor remains of her mother’s fortune, for Some
more favourable opportunity. She had been greatly ftiuck with the appearance of cur adventurer, and was, indeed,
violently in love with him. Her virgin
* 1
chastity already lost, She started not So much at an intrigue, as, probably, ftie might otherwise have done; and, besides,
C 4
Ihe
i
32

Ihe was not without hopes, in a case ot this nature, that the justice of Mr. Selby, who knew not the whole of her story, might oblige his nephew to marry her.
Poflelled with this opinion, Ihe had
M
proceeded as we have already related; but, flung with jealousy and resentment, on finding that Charles actually courted
'Emilia, fly resolved to betray him, and break the connexion. Prudence, however, prevented her from immediately elfcdling this resolution; and, in the mean v?hik, an accident happened, that fet the characters of the two rivals in a very extraordinary and striking point of view.
One evening, while Emily, Mr. Clair.
.
ville, and Mr. Colville, v/ere all w^alkrng together, the latter leading the lady, a
• •
vicious


33
vicious bull came rufhingon them through
!
the gate of an adjoining field. Terrified at the sight of the beast, Colville resolved to provide for his own safety,
without regarding that of miss Selby,
/
and retired with great precipitation, at
the Same time dropping from his hand a pocket pistol, that he had just been admiring for its workmanship, and a brace
of which he generally carried about with
him loaded : but Mr. Clairville, on the contrary, rushed between the furious animal, and his Emily, whom he defended, by means of a Stick he plucked Suddenly from the hedge, and dodged him round the gate, while the lady retired, till he had found means to make
the beast fall, in the height of his fury,.
/
into a deep ditch. Then, with the agi iity of a Spanish knight at a jiublic Show,
he
C 5

34  '
\
he Snatched up colville’s pillol, and discharged it full in his face; on which, his horned antagonist fell instantly dead in the ditch. Our hero then returned to his. Emily, who Hood trembling beneath a hedge, waiting, with unspeakable fear, the issue of the sight •, nor could be persuaded, by her lover’s Signs to quit the field, till he came off with victory: : as soon as he approached her, she
4
'fainted into his arms. Having chased her
'k
temples, and used every method to recover her, as soon as fne revived, he led
I
her back to the house, where it was judged necessary to put her immediately to bed.
Meanwhile Colville reaped but little honour from his behaviour. Fain would
he have excused himself; but his retreat, louisa’s fright, and the pistol
whiclr

which Charles delivered him, all Spoke too plainly againll him : Mr. Selby,
however, was So much prejudiced in his
\
favour, that he did not Seem to admit the charge of cowardice againll him : on the contrary, he Seethed rather inclined to blame Charles for a foohhardiness which, though it happened, luckily, to Succeed, might have proved fatal to himself and Emily.,
Such an extraordinary treatment of our adventurer, raised in his bosom many
disagreeable reflections; and his hatred of his rival increased, every day, more
y
and more; while he, on his part, enter -- tained sentiments as unfavourable of the
’•'•oufft
C H A Pi.
36
CHAP. V
aglosetconversation — Charles departs
from his uncle’s house.
II
A
I.’
^"tpo give the reader Some idea of the
reason why this prejudice was conceived against our adventurer, it may
not be amiss to inform him, that Miss Nancy Maynard had been busily employed in. blackening the character of
him who slighted her; and had even, hinted, that, in this affair, he stole a
victory, by striking (as if by accident) the piffol out of the hands of Colville, with which he completed the achieve ment, that seemed to merit So much
i
honour. False and improbable as this
might appear to others, it yet passed upon
Mr. Selby, who was already prepossessed
with a prejudice against Mr. Clairville,
and

37
and was perftiaded that he had base designs upon his daughter.
Prepoflelled with this notion, every a£lion of the youth necelsarily appeared to him in false colours, and Charles Soon experienced an altered behaviour from his uncle, which was highly displeasing to him especially when he considered, that gratitude for his daughter’s
life preserved, ought rather to have influenced him in his favour.
At last the storm, which had been So
long in gathering, burst over him; for Mr. Selby, having observed him particularly familiar, one day, with his daughter, Sent for him into his closet, and thus addrelted him.
‘ Charles, you know I took you out
‘ of your father in law’s power, and
'' ‘ have

if
3s

‘ have Since proved a father and pro ‘ tc(5lor to you. I thought you injured;
‘ I thought you a well tempered youth,
and treated you accordingly; and See
‘ my reward! — you make use of all ‘ your arts to seduce my only daughter.
‘ I am not ignorant of yourdefi^ns, and
‘ hope I Shall have prudence enough to
prevent them. As Soon as possible I
‘ Shall settle your account j and, though you are not yet of age, deliver to you all you can lay claim to. After this, I
‘ Shall expect to be troubled no more
‘ with your affairs; I Shall wilh you bet?’
(
‘ ter than you deserve, and will never publish to the world my reasons for
‘ this proceeding. I know you have a re
\
‘ ready, and your lesson at hand; ‘ but I am resolved, and Shall pay little
‘ attention to what you say. What I
/
‘ have


39
‘ have advanced is grounded on undeni ‘ able authority : Sorry am I, that I mult ‘ talk thus to my kinsman.’
Charles drove, in vain, to clear himself from the charge alleged againd him j and his uncle proceeded to judgement. In short, he was told that, within three days, he mud quit the hoiise. This, to him, was a cruel Sentence; and,, to make it fall dill more heavy upon him, he found, that Emily was locked up in
her chamber, to prevent her conversing with him in the interim.
He found means, however, by corrupting one of the domedics, to get a letter delivered to the young lady, in
which he informed her of his uncle’s intention; and, withal, offered to go off with her the very night before he was to
leave
I i
40

I
\
I!
1j
leave the hoiise, if Ihe would be at her chamber window about twelve. He received for answer, that fly could not think of leaving her father’s home in
this manner j but that She would be glad to See him, the night after the time appointed, and take her farewell of him.
The reason llie alleged was,, that Ibe Should then be more at liberty j and that She would take care, by means of the same servant who was in her interest, to have the garden gate left open.
Before Charles left Mr. selby’s, that
gentleman caused bills to be put into his hands, to the amount of all that had
been left him, which was about fifteen hundred pounds; having taken proper
discharges, under Hs hand, for the fame:
>
and he departed flushed with the hopes that he Should, on the very next night, be able to carry off Emily.
CH A P

41
CHAP. VI
A Night adventure — charles’s Journey delayed by an unlucky Accident.
N the appointed nigfit, our adventurer returned, accordingly, having lodged in the neighbourhood for that
purpose during the intermediate time,
/ ‘
and eiitered the garden gate, which he found open, as he had been promised. On the outside he left his Servant waiting with a Spare hoyfe, a ladder of ropes, c.
nothing doubting but he Should, by his eloquence, persuade Miss Selby to suffer
herself to be.carried off by him.
As Soon as he had made his (Ignal, Emily appeared at the window, A conversation, very tender, ensued; but, when he asain mentioned his desiccn of taking
her
■■•1
42
\
her away with him, telling her he had all things ready for that purpose, she started at the proposal. ‘ No, Mr.clairville, ’said Ihe, ‘ never V ill I consent to Such a Scheme; ‘ never Snail it be said that Emily Selby ‘ left her father’s house, againll his con ‘ Sent, and threvi herself a burden into ‘ the arms of her lover. O! reflcdl but a ‘ moment (Severe as his Sentence may ‘ appear to us) on what we both owe to' ‘ my father; reflect, besides, how un ‘ likely you will be, ever to receive any ‘ farther aftiftance from him, on my be ^
‘ half; So that you mull take me, a ‘ beggar, to your arms. besides, as ‘ well you know, the laws of England
unless we
will annul our marriage.
‘ make ourselves fugitives from our na ‘ tive country. Consider these things, ‘ and consult, at once, my honour, and
‘ your
THE HAPPY' EXTRAVAGANT.
43
\
‘ your own, and the mutual convenience
✓ ^
‘ of both: yet, for your Satisfa6hon., * while you are conitant, here will I ‘ plight my vows, that no force shall ‘ match me with another. This mufl^ *• this ought to Satisfy you : nor can you infill on more
With these, and many other such arguments, the noble minded maid dissuaded him from his purpose;; they parted in a manner as affectionate as the
time and place would permit, vowing perpetual love.
Full of the ideas this meeting had occasioned, Charles had but just pasted the garden gate, when he found himself attacked by two men, whom he knew not,
and with such violence, that it was not without great difficulty he defended himself
till his Servant came up to his assistance
V
44

ance; but, on that, the Scale was turned',
/
and the strangers fled, leaving him, however, wounded, and full of anxiety for what should have been the cause of this unexpefled event. He would, indeed, have been very unwilling to charge Miss Selby with any part in it; yet, when he reflecfted on the circnmftances, her denial to trust: herself with him, her putting off the time of their meeting, and various other little incidents that occurred to his memory j he could not but suppose
there was occasion of suspicion: and his attendant had much to do to with hold him, bleeding as he was, from returning to question the matter farther with Emily at her window. But this was no time for dallying; and he was, at last, persuaded to make the bell of his. way homeward, having bound up his
wound.

45
wound, as well as he could, with his handkerchief.
This accident, however, occasioned
%
to stay longer in the neighbourhood,
of his uncle’s seat, than he would otherwise have done, as he purposed to go, immediately, for London, his heart being
captivated with the description he had heard of that metropolis. As to, his
father-in-law, he had firmly resolved never to see him more j a resolution which it cost him but little pains to make.
Meanwhile, the people at the inn, where he lodged, were not a little inquisitive how he came to be wounded, and at Such a time of night (for he had been obliged to call them up for assistance). Now as that part of the country was not
known
4.6
THE I iappv extravagant.
known to be insefted with thieves, the affair appeared the more extraordinary *, and, it is probable, the good people would have carried their inquiries, on this head, much farther than they actually did, had it not been for their fears of offending one whom (as they knew nothing of what had passed at his uncle’s) they looked on as the adopted heir of Mr. Selby.
But that gentleman found means to
make inquiries, also, on his part, into
the affair; for the instant he heard that
^ %
his nephew had been in a night ikirmifh, he began to suspect something of the
matter; as the gardener, coming early to work the next morning, had found the gate open, and a ladder of ropes, c. lying near it, with a great quantity of blood in the road.
Emily

47
Emily was taxed with the affair, and though die was absolutely ignorant of the sight, yet expressed So much concern, on hearing that her lover was wounded, and bluoied So much at the sight of the rope ladder, that her father entertained little doubt of her being acquainted with the whole business. He loaded her, therefore, with reproaches, which she little deserved; and resolved to keep, her close prisoner in her own aparrment, (the windows of which he caused to be secured) till Mr. Colville, who was just going to London, on Some business, Should return, and marry her. All her father’s arts, however, proved ineffeclual, to find out who it was that had engaged his nephew, though, as he suspected Colville to be the man, he had tried, by all means, to wind the Secret from him. Sometimes he complimented


48

plimented him on his valour, and affe(51; ed to Say the most bitter things againll his nephew for having called his courage in
t
quellion; at others he would say, that the whole country had given the glory of this action to Mr. Colville, and wondered at his over adled modesty, in pretending to conceal an affair which all the world knew; expressing, at the famo time, his gratitude to him for having preserved his (daughter from the ravilher’s hands. Thus did Mr. Selby perpetually attack his va
i *
nity, during the stay of Charles near elby hall, but in vain; there apt

peared not the least lign of his having been concerned in the night alarm, and the affair rested as one of thole mylleries whictetime, alone, can ever be expected
I
to clear up.
Q

CHAP.
\,

49
CHAP. VII
t
\
Our Flero Sets out for L ondon
A sketcl
of Characters— — Arrival.
UR adventurer, being now recovered
from his wound, was hear tily disposed to quit the country, and Set out for London; which he, accordingly,
did, in the common ftage coach, chiefly
• ^
for the sake of entertaining himself with the variety of characters that might present themselves to his view, and, by that
means, wear off the vexation which threatened to prey upon his Spirits.
t
He was not disappointed. — The company conflfted, befldes himself, of a sea officer, a methodist parson, an author, ' the manager of a strolling company, and
his wife : So that this vehicle was become almost an epitome of the world.
vol. I.
D
For

50


V
For the first two miles the whole com pany preserved a Silence, to which the women, and the player being asleep (as it was early in the morning) did not a little contribute •, but this was broken, by means of a Sudden jolt of the coach, which occasioned the latter to rub his eyes, and exclaim, in a hoarse voice, ‘ They are d — n’d bad roads.’ — ‘ I be ‘ lieve, ’ Said the methodist, ‘ your Swear ‘ ing will not mend them — No, nor ‘ your canting, neither, ’ returned the other. — * I wonder what a pox Such fel ‘ lows as you mean, by thrusting your ‘ Selves in amongst gentlemen, and Spoil
good company.’ — * Hold your * tongue, can’t you, Mr. Prompt, ’ Said his wife; ‘ you always love to be
mg
breeding Some riot, or other
And
* what’s that to you, Mrs. Mixen? Am
* I

51
* I never to Speak without being tutored ‘ by you? Do you think I don’t know ‘ my cue, without your giving me the
* wordt— — ^ have been glad enough, * Said file, ‘ to have me give you the word, ‘ before now, when the stage has flood ‘ for you. Remember how you blun ‘ dered in Romeo; and the play mull ‘ have stopped, if County Paris, who lay ‘ dead, had not spoke your Speech for
you
Q
he would have entertained the
company with many more of Mr. prompt’s defers in his calling, if the coach had not stopped to breakfast; when all got out but our adventurer, and an elderly man, who Sat opposite to him, and
proved to be the author. These two gentlemen, having already breaksafled at the inn, only took a glassof wine in the coach, which now being cleared of the
D
%
other
1

Ak
\


Other paltengers, the stranger thus addressed
Charles. ‘ Sir, I presume you ‘ are going to Settle in I., ondon.’ — ‘ I am,
‘ Sir, ’ Said Charles, — ‘ Will you favour
i
^ me with your name ?’ — ‘ Clairville, ’
‘ Aye, of selby hair writing, as in his memorandum book). ‘ And So, Sir, you ‘ have left your uncle entirely : I should ‘ be proud of the honour cf your ac ‘ quaintance *, it may lie in my power to
t
‘ introduce you into polite life. there’s ‘ the Duke of Hazard, Lord Hurly
‘ burly. Lady Rantwell, Miss Nightly, ‘ and my good friend Colonel Shallow.
‘ All — i’ll introduce you to them all
I
You have great acquaintance. Sir, ’ Said Charles, measuring him with his eye, and
Surveying his threadbare black coat.
‘ Oh yes, Mr. Clairville; to be Sure I ‘ have my share: : entre nout.^ these
‘ people

53
'people want me more than I do them. ‘ The Duke of Hazard is well enough at
‘ the card table, or at Newmarket \ but, ‘ take him from thence, and he’k no ‘ body. Lady Rantwell would fain ‘ be thought a wit, and a writer: many ‘ a purse have I got, for prologues, and ‘ billet-doux, written for her Ladyship j ‘ and even Colonel Shallovr, why he’s a ‘ good' companion over a bowl; no ‘ more — but Non omnia pojfumus onmes! ‘ [you understand Latin, I suppose].’
‘ A little, Sir.’ * for I have undertaken to turn Some ‘ of our moll noted catches and glees.
'' I am glad of it;
and many other little pieces of my
own, into that language. Here is my fubscription book only half a guinea *, and I have got, you lee, about an' hundred Subscribers. Ods my life! I
D 3
beg
54

‘ beg your pardon. Sir; in my absence ‘ of mind I have Set your name down, ‘ here, inllead of doing it among my ‘ memoranda. Ha! ha! ha! [Charles ‘ Clairville, of selby hall, Esq— — 6d.'] * A good jell! but you will excuse me at the same time holding, visibly enough, a receipt, for the money, in his hand.
Charles was not a little Surprised at this piece of modest alturanee; to which the company, now resuming their seats, prevented his making any reply. The sea oihcer had, by this time, commenced an
acquaintance with the manager’s wise, which he Seemed resoived to improve, to the no great satisfaction of her husband, who was forced, however, to acquiesce : for, besides that Mr. Prompt was under petticoat government, he was by no means of a martial turn; and, though he
had

55
K
had once Served in the militia, had a great deal too much philosophy to hazard a thrust in the guts. His opponent took advantage of this disposition in him, while the methodill was busied in noting
down, in one of the blank leaves of his. hymnbook, the number of oaths which
either party Swore. ^
At dinner time, the author, taking Charles ahde, told him, that he Should be much obliged to him for the trifling difference between them, as he was So
Short of money that he could not pay his reckoning. Our hero vas more Surprised than ever; but, as this was likely to ' be the first and lafl time he Should be troubled with him, he gave him the half guinea, making only this Short reply, when the other offered him a receipt, ‘ I want no acknowledgement, nor shall
D 4
accept
V
5^

W
‘ accept your book. Thus much I have ‘ administered to your necessities;; I
Should have had a much greater plea
♦
‘ Sure in doing So, had.i been convinced ‘ I was relieving modeji merit in diftress.’
After this, nothing occurred, V orth
notice, till the arrival of the pafiengers in
\
London, when all Separated, and, taking dilferent ways, as their bufiness or inclinations
led them, Charles lodged that night at his inn *, and provided himself, the next day, with a genteel apartment in
if.
Hay marker.
C H A
  57,
CHAP. VIII
Charles Settles in London — A private Amour — An unexpedled Meeting — A
Challenge.
T^ONDON, the Seat of dissipation. Soon opened, to Mr. Clairville, Such Scenes of false pleasure, as could not fail to enchant one of his dispoiition; and he quickly abandoned himself to the pleasing delusion..
He soon engaged in parties of pleasure, and Spent whole days and nights in a round of perpetual noise and riot. To
repeat what extravagant actions he committed, and what ridiculous circumstances
he brought liimsdf into, in many of these
his excursions,, would be equally tedious,
I
uselefs, and, perhaps, offensive. Suffice it to Say, that he Seemed resolved to bed

5.
come,,
1
58

come, in all relpefls, what is called a gentleman of the town.
Meanwhile the daughter of the person at whose house he lodged (who was a widow, that kept on a very genteel wholesale trade), having conceived a prejudice in his favour, beheld his conduct with a secret concern; and even her mother
9
would sometimes take upon her to railly his foibles, as keenly as good manners
would permit her. To the latter he Scarcely gave any attention; but to the former, who poflelted a very handsome person, he frequently paid such compliments, as the deluded girl construed, too often, into proofs of an affection for her. It is not to be wondered, that the heat of his passions, by the unrestrained licence
he gave them, and the company he kept,
had, in a great measure, debauched his
. prin
/
HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT. 59
principles: Charles, therefore, perceiving this girl’s attachment to him, resolved to
encourage it; and looked on her, in case he could win her, as a lawful prize. For this purpose, he Suddenly feigned a reformation, ordered himself to be denied to his usual companions, kept earlier hours, and, for a few days, employed the greatest part of his time in reading, or in company with the old gentlewoman and her daughter, whom he took with him to the play sometimes, the entertainments for the winter season being just begun.
Such a conduct highly pleased them; and Miss Lucy was ready to attribute it to lovey: hile her mother Seemed far from being averse to the bestowing her
daughter on one, of whose family ftie had
heard much, but ftie was unacquainted
with her.gueft’s differences with them.
Weary,,
. I
!t
L
, t
6o

"Weary, at length, of this Sober life, he laid a plan to put himself, at once, in pos ieflion of his wishes, which he attempted in the following manner. — One evening, when he knew the whole family was gone
abroad, except miss Lucy, and a maid fervant, he took care to come home before his usual hour, and Sat down with her, under pretence of keeping her company in her room, a liberty she had. Sometimes, been imprudent enough to allow him. Here he entertained her, for Some
* f
time, with playing Some Soft tunes on the flute, being a proficient in musica tender conversation followed, and Ife proceeded to Some freedoms which the time and opportunity Seemed, inyome measure, to countenance him in : at lafl, he clasped her in his arms, and avowed, though in the moss endearing manner,,
his

61
his designs. She Ilruggled, llie complained *, but Love, powerful Love, was an advocate for him, in her breast. She commanded him to desift; he quitted her, but, drawing his Sword, vowed to plunge it in his bosom, if She proved cruel. Thus, Soothing and affrighting her, by turns, he was near accomplishing his design, when the door Suddenly opened, and an officer entered, with his Sword drawn; who, after Some reproaches to Lucy, whom he declared to be his
Sister, attacked Charles. He prepared
»
for his defence; but guilt, conscious
guilt, was against him; and he Soon found himself greatly over matched, while the young lady Sainted away..
It is uncertain where this Scene would have ended, had not another gentleman
r
come in, and parted the combatants. He
called

t •

I f i
62
called Charles by name, and declared himself to be an old ichool fellow, of the name of Ir. Amyand. He, however, reprimanded our adventurer. Severely, for his condua in this affair; and, making his excuses to the officer, who still breathed revenge, withdrew, with him,
to his own lodgings, where he ^dvised him to remain, till the affair should be
fettled.
When they were alone together, Mr.
$
Amyand repeated hisleaure; and, withal, informed his friend, how he came to be Surprised, and prevented from perpetrating his ill intentions. It Seems, the brother of Lucy had come to See his mother, in company with this gentleman; • and, hearing that his Sister, i nly, vas at home, walked upstairs,, he was Surprised to hear a man’s voice in her chamber

^3
ber; ands listening, found himself deeply interelled in their conversation. On this, he begged Mr. Amyand would step, a while, into an adjacent room; then he entered his sifter’s apartment, and behaved as we have already related. Mr. Amyand, hearing the clalhing of their swords, came in time enough to prevent farther mischief.
Charles could not but acknowledge his fault, and desired the further interposition of his friend, to prevent any ill consequences from this affair, which, accordingly, he promised; and, though a challenge was Sent the next day, yet, by the mediation of this good man, all things were fettled peaceably. Charles, however, had another lodging to Seek for, and was not long before he fixed himself
in one of the genteel streets in Westminster.

CHAP.

• \
I ■.*.
I
A
frr
S
64.

CHAP. IX
Amyand Separates himself from our Hero He commences Acquaintance with
Mr. Truelock — Some extravagant Adventures.
f
t\totwithitanding the good offices of
Mr. Amyand, and though, in all probability, he Saved his life; yet Charles found himself uneasy in his company, and wiffied to get rid of his friendffiip, left.
he ffiould be a check, upon him in the
/
pursuit of his pleasures. That gentleman could not be So blind as not to perceive this dispoiition in him, and one day, when his friend had quarrelled with
him, on Some trivial account, he took.
A / -
occasion thus to address him.
* Mr. Clairville, I believe I need not ■ tell you, that I have a real regard for
‘ - yori s.

^5
‘ you *, my actions have proved it: — nor ‘ this alone; I have, for a long time, ‘ endeavoured to bear with your tempers *, ‘ but they are now become insufferable. ‘you vrill exciife me, therefore, if I rid ‘ you of my company, which, I plainly ‘ perceive, is grown disagreeable to you. ‘ There may come a time, when you ‘ will want my advice, and assistance:
‘ when that period shall arrive, seek me ‘ outj and, wherever I am, I jfhall be
‘ Iliil ready to Serve you. But, till then,
‘ for our mutual peace, I hold it necef
‘ fary, that I Should withdraw myself
from
you
Mr. Amyand departed, without wait
t
1
ing for a reply; and Charles was not lorry that he did so. ‘ I have now, * said he, ‘ no longer any Ipy upon my ‘ a(5lio.ns; and I arti resolved, at all ad
^
66



‘ ventures, to put no restraint upon my ‘ pleasures, whilst I have the power of ‘ gratifying them But here the sensible peruser of these memoirs, perhaps, may ask, how he could think of subsisting
on fifteen hundred pounds, while he
%
was continually living on the principal. In the first place, it is to be observed, that Charles took care nt to trouble
himself too much with thinking *, and, Secondly, having once got a few guineas, by a little tr^£l, that he wrote for a bookseller, his own vanity, and the applauses of Some empty companions (bedaubed with lace), had flattered him into an author : and he adluauy doubted not of get
#
a genteel and plentiful Subsistence by his writings, when hia money ihouldfail At the same time, he put off the evil
day, and never made any farther attempts.
  6/
i
tempts of the kind, except Some idle poetic prolulions, and those he never took any money for.
Meanwhile he extended his acquaintance among the rakilh and unthinking part of the world; nor was warned, though he frequently perceived Some of these eccentric geniuses to drop from their Sphere, and either disappear totally, or roll in So contrasted a circle, and So dillant from that in which once they had fnone, that they became objects of pity to some, of scorn to others, and of blame to all mankind.
Among these extravaganzas of nature,
it was, however, his fortune to meet with some who were diftinguilhed from
the reft: by sterling sense, and worth, though they suffered their good qualities
to
68

to lie useless by them, and hid their talent in the earth. The chief of these was one Truelock, lately come to the pofseflion of a fortune Scraped together by the industry of his father, a country dealer : warm in youth, and enchanted with pleasure, not Satisfied with carrying on his father’s'profitable businefs, to which he was regularly bred, he came to London, and Set up in one he did not underhand, merely because it was genteeler. As he was a votary to pleasure, he Soon
fell into fueh company as we have described, where he was perpetually neg le(5ling his businefs, Squandering his money, and injuring his character; in return for which Sacrifices, he was looked upon as a leader among their parties, and
dignified with the title of a choice Spirit, c
\
harldf
  69
Charles and he thought themselves
happy in each other’s acquaintance; yet,
*
instead of the mutual improvement which they might have reaped from their connexions, it Served only to strengthen and countenance both of them in their follies.
t
Truelock had some relations in town, who were ranked amongst the moll rigid of the Presbyterians. One of these, whose
I
name was Sample, was a woollen draper in the city : he was a widower, and had a fon about eighteen, whom he assessed to train up to the ftrifleft rules of the church of Scotland. This gentleman was ever busied in reproving his coufm for following evil colirfes, and abandoning himself
to lewd women; whilst the other maintained, that there were many, whom he ranked among that number, who could
put on an air of as much innocence, and
*
modelly,
\
70

modesty, as the moll virtuous of the Sex;
as also, that the bucks, and gentlemen of
the town, could assume the moll serious, sober appearance, at pleasure j andj from
thence, he falsely inferred, that all delicacy and modesty were, in fal, no more than alfedlation.
§
Young Clairville was introduced here, hot as a man of pleasure, but in the character he well knew how to Support, that of a serious gentleman } and was always ready to Second Mr. Sample, in reproving his cousin for his faults, till he really
won the tradesman’s friendship. This
»
was looked on, by the two altociates, as proof positive for one part of the argument they had Supported: but true lock stopped not here; he Sought out a woman of the town, one of the most decent deportment he cculd procure, and
equipped

71
equipped her with all necessaries, at his
own and his friend’s expense. She was then introduced, at sample’s, as a distant relation. The Scheme Succeeded beyond their expectations ^ miss Sands, as •ihe was called, was received, and entertained, with the greatest cordiality. She was introduced, likewise, to all their company; and, at lall, engaged the affections of young sample. It is hardly possible
to conceive how much the two friends enjoyed this adventure, promoting, by
every means in their power, the court ihip : nay, they went sofar, as to Supply her with money, and bills to produce, in Support of her pretensions. And thus the matter proceeded, till, at Jaft, the
wedding was talked of, and even a day appointed.
To

I

To make the jest complete, one morn ins, about a week before the time, Mr. Clairville and Truelock entered the
parlour, telling the intended bride, that
two ladies, of her acquaintance, desired to lee her. She knew her cue, and begged
they might be admitted; when, to the great Surprise of all the family, two noted women of the town entered, and,
I
in an affe<5led manner, paid their compliments to her, and the company. Sample stood aftonilhed; his fon was transported
with passion, while our hero, and Truelock, burst out into a loud laugh. The three ladies withdrew together, the gentlemen favouring their retreat. ‘ See
‘ now, ’ said Truelock, ‘ how egregiously ‘ Mr. Sample has been deceived in his
‘ opinions! This gentleman’(turning to
Mr.
s.

73
Mr. Clairville), ‘ whom you have so ‘ much admired, is a buck, and one of ‘ US', and the very lady to whom you ‘ would have matched your Son, if I had
‘ not charitably prevented you, is a no
•>
‘ fine dejoye. Confess, now, that ‘ you are wrong •, confess that you are ‘ outwitted. After this, I can expect ‘ (knowing your temper) no farther con ‘ nexion with you y neither do I desire it:
‘ So, willing you all manner of happiness ‘ in your own Ilubborn way, I and my ‘ friend will withdraw.’ And so saying,
he quitted the room, followed by young Clairville.
By this scheme, however, they loll near an hundred and fifty pounds, in bills and money; with which the girl was cunning enough to make offj besides all the expense they had been at in fitting her
vol. I.
E
out.
, r
/

/
/
out, and the friendihip of old Sample, which, at a critical junflure, might have been of great Service to our hero; as will
I
be Shown, in a future period of this hillory.
'By such wild exploits, these youths laboured to lose the confidence of their friends, and to raise themselves up enemies’ from among those with whom they
V
conversed, Careleflhefs and dissipation, with a genlral clifregard of things ferions, seemed to reign within their breasts, and
they appeared ambitious of living as to THEMSELVES ALONE; a maxim as destructive of their future peace, as it was
contrary to that Providence which designed.
man for a social life.. But there
was a time to come, in which both of
them (our adventurer especially) expe*
jienced the error, and would gladly have
given
tjie HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
75
s •
given almost anything to recall it. So true it is, that the passions, to which youth is too apt to give the rein, are like unruly steeds, that generally throw their mailers, and leave them in the midll of trouble and vexation.
/
E 2
CHAP.
V,
THE HAPP^ extravagant.
CHAP. X
\
History of miss Mar la Aubrey,
R U E L O C K, and our hero, (fill
went on in a course of extraordi nary adventures not much to the honour of either. There was not any place, of public diversion, which they did not frequent j and perpetual intrigues were the conscquences of these expeditions. In the pursuit of one of these adventures, a very beautiful girl threw herself into Mr. clairville’s protection, of whose history it may not be amiss to present the reader with a Short flcetch.
miss Maria Aubrey was the daughter of a private gentleman, in Wales, whole family was come to decay, and who, having ten children, could afford to give a
fortune


  77
fortune to only two of them, one of whom
he bred to inherit a Small paternal estate
$
brought the other up to the law. Amongst these, his children, he had but this one daughter, who, it was natural to imagine, Should have been the peculiar care of the whole family,, ut it happened far otherwise j for, when the mother died, her father took but little care of her, and, being of a mild dispohtion,
the rest of her relations Seemed inclined to Set her down for a person very deficient in understanding, *, she was, ac: eordingly, negledcd. 'Nor was this all; for, Mr. Aubrey dying, also, when die was in the eighteenth year of her age,
V
and leaving her entirely destitute, die was forced to throw herself upon the generosity
of her eldest and Second brothers; but they both Seemed little inclined to Serve her, and recommended to her to Seek
E 3
out

\
78

out a Service in Some genteel family, and
4
not make herself a burden to her friends. Thus treated, by her nearell: relations. She was obliged to throw herself upon the wide world, to Seek her fortunes. Accordingly, She firll became a companion to a lady in South Wales, with whom fly lived, for a twelvemonth, very happily; vv^hen her patroness dying, she again applied to her relations, and was again told, in a haughty tone, that she must find another placejor herselft and, moreover, thaftlie would do well to go to London,
to Seek one.' This advice was grating j and the manner, in which it was delivered,
was still more So. However, on mature
^ >
deliberation, (lie was resolved to follow it, and endeavour to turn what was despitefully meant, to a real good. mufter ing, therefore, together all her wearing ap
■
1


79
parel, and what little cash fly, was post

felted of, Ihe Set out, for the capital, very
\
early in the Spring of the year. On her arrival, it was her fortune to take lodgings
at one Mrs. commode’sy. who kept
»
a lod'ging house, in one of the cross Hreets
in the Haymarket, and was a dihant re • laiion of Mrs. Commode,, the famous
millener near leicefter fields. It was natural enough for Miss Aubrey, Gtuated ' as fhc was, and without lettet of recommendation to any one in town, to inquire, of her landlady, for a place. This good gentlewoman, pausing a while. Said, she
believed she could help her to one,
which would, be vacant in a little time :
‘ But, in the meanwhile, child, ’ Said (lie,
‘ there are public offices of intelligence,
‘ to which I would have you apply.
‘ Should you Succeed with them, you
E 4
will
8o
‘ will have no occasion for my aflilfancci ‘ if you Should not, I am both ready ‘ and willing to befriend you Mrs. Commode then began to expatiate on the
nature of register offices, and the great nse they were of, in this metropolis; withal recommending her to a particular
one, which. She said, fly was Sure would
«
do for her.
In the interim, there was a young gentleman, among the many who visited at this house, that frequently call his eyes on miss Aubrey, whom he admired much, and begged to be introduced to her company. Mrs. Commode, accordingly, contrived that they Should meet freely, and recommended her visitor, whose name was Williams, to the lady, as a young gentleman of great fortune
and honour, and one who would be glad
to

TKE‘ HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
8 I
to pay his addreltes to her. miss Aubrey viewed him not with the eyes of indifference : he was comely, tall, well made, and of a very manly deportment i his
age exceeded not twenty, and his eyes spoke the language of love.

He took her to all places of public entertainment, and, in every respect,, the chara(5ler of the lover j insomuch, that the inexperienced maid began to lay aside all farther thoughts of providing for future subsiitence; looking upon herself
as already certain of being married to Mr. Williams..
But this lasted not long; — for returning one evening late from the play, after having Supped at the house of a friend oi his, Mr. v7illiams waited on the lady home, according to his usual cuitom : when they came there, all the
E 5
family

8z
THE' HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
family were abroad, a Servant rhaid, and
one female lodger, only, excepted. i\fcer they had sat Some time, the young gentleman
began to make very free with her person,. and to talk to her in a strain far different from that in which he used to address her. She fliarted, with Surprise,
and, trembling, begged him to desist
\
he fallened the door of the apartment, and proceeded with his familia r rities, even to the last extremity; when Miss Aubrey Screamed aloud, and fell into a fit: on which, he rang the bell,
for the maid, witl whose assistance the lady was again brought to herself; on which instant the Servant, knowing her cue, again retired. But her wild looks, her unaffedled terror, and the real anguish of her heart, were Such, as sufficiently Spoke this unhappy beauty not
to

83
to be accustomed to Such treatment j and So far prevented Mr. Williams from making any farther attempt upon her that he Hood, as it year, mourning over her, and pressing her hand in his, with a faltering voicej ‘ Dear creature, ’ said he, ‘ forgive me, if 1 have wronged your ‘ innocence; and, for heaven’s sake, if
t
‘ you' really are what you Seem to be, “tell me how you came hither For, by.
‘ my soul (forgive me that I Ihock your ‘ ears with the recital), rpurchased the
‘ pofieffion of your person, of. Mrs. Com ‘ mode, for a Sum of money, half of
‘ which, I was told, you had agreed to ‘ accept for your share, •, this night ‘ was fixed, on,, to fulfil the contract. ‘ At. the same time, ' I was cautioned not ‘ to mention the terms to you,. madam,
‘ because it was your peculiar temper to
‘' affect
84
‘ alfed all the courtihip of a lover j ‘ while, at the Same time, you were ‘ ready to throw yourself into the arms
I
‘ of an agreeable man, without waiting ‘ for the ceremonious formalities of a
t
‘ husband. If I have been deceived, im
»
‘ pute not, then, the fault to me, but to ‘ the wicked devifer of this evil: though, ‘ with Iliame, I declare, I Should abfo ‘ lutely have proceeded to force you j as ‘ deeming all your ftrugglings mere af
4
‘ fedlation, to enhance the favour, had ‘ not the voice of innocent nature, herself, powerfully Spoke, in you, and Saved ‘ me from the crime
Maria heard this Speech with inexpref sible aftonilhment; exclaiming, ‘ Oh! ‘ heaven! can I believe this ^ And was ‘ I, then, to be Sold ^ my innocence ‘ bartered for money, by a vile creature,
‘ who

85
‘ who deserves not, Surely, the name of ‘ a woman! May I credit this extraordi
‘ nary tale ?’ From circumstances which amounted, nearly, to proof positive, Mr. Williams convinced her of the truth of what he had advanced, and altured her of his real regard and protection, in future.’ At this time the female lodger before mentioned, entered the room j and, having overheard what had palted, confirmed all Mr. williams’s assertions; adding, that herself had been' decoyed, by
Mrs. Commode, into a lewd way of life, in which Ihe had since been kept, on account of debts owing to that gentlewoman.
<
CHAP.
th happy extravagant.
CHAP. XI
of miss aubrey concluded
IS S Aubrey, feeing into what bad hands Ihe had fallen, fullered her fdf, at length, to be persuaded to throw herself into three arms of Mr. Williams, the ensuing night, who avowed his intentions of delivering her from her bondage, and still desired permission to continue his addresses to her as a wife. Shuddering at the ruin which had overtaken her fellow lodger, Ihe resolved, of two evils to choose the lead, and rather to trust herself with one who, notwithstanding his wildness, was ever accounted a, man of real hb nour, than ■ to reside with a bale woman,
y
who was a pander to the lusts of others and herself a deceiver of the innocent.

87
Thus resolved, it was necessary that
I
Ihe should -^ next morning, behave as if She really had been forced to Submit to the desires of her eager lover; and, ac r Gordingly, She, for the firll time, taught:
her tongue the language of dissimulation
\
met Mrs. Commode,, with feigned tears, and upbraidings; That good'gen
tlewoman began to sooth, and endeavour to initiate her in the way of life for which Ihe, very kindly, intended her. How diltalleful Soever it might be to Maria to play this part; yet. Since a northeast cefiity, that had' no law, imposed it on
her, Ihe was resolved to bear.it out; The
/
Succeeding evening fly waited, with im
X
patience’, for the arrival of Mr, Williams; but he came not: Ihe therefore Suddenly decamped at night, and returned to the inn, where Ihe first had put up *, where,
/•

giving
s8

giving them Some hints that Mrs. commode’s was not a fit place for her. She
was, by them, recommended to another lodging.
And now She thought it high time to inquire what success Ihe might expect from her application at the register office. She was there informed, that they were just about to send to her, having procured,
for her, a very Suitable place, as waiting woman to Sir John lady *,
which Ihe, with joy, accepted j and, within three days, was put in possession of the place. Her lady Ihe found to be a very agreeable and v/ell tempered gentlewoman, but of a disposicion mildi, to a. fault; vrhile Sir John, who had been bred
in the military from his youth, and only quitted a company to enjoy an estate and title, was of a turn most fiery and pe
remptorv.
Am
%..
happy extravagant.
89
remptory. This, however, did not, in
the least, discourage.or affright her, as Ihe concluded Ihe Should have but little reason to be Subject to the knight’s temper; but the event proved otherwise. Sir John, who had married merely for the Sake of interest and family connexions, the daughter of a country gentleman, entertained not the least regard for the person of lady though Ihe was generally allowed
to be a very handsome woman. He was, besides, of a roving turn, and
ever more devoted to other women than
to hi own wife. This gentleman presently took it into his head to be passion
%
fond of miss Aubrey, who no Sooner perceived it, by his behaviour, than Ihe
entertained thoughts of quitting the house;; the amorous knight was re solved to be beforehand with her, in the
exe
go

execution oi his designs upon her person.
1
One evening, when Ilie had been taking a walk, in an adjacent meadow, he caused
her to be Seized, and Suddenly born to a poft chaise, which he had in waiting; but her ^ flirieks alarming a gentleman, who paired that way, on horseback, he
I
stopped, to enqutc irvto the matter when he perceived, by the livery and arms, whose the equipage was ♦, and, having a glance of the lady, he commanded his
attendant to asfift him, and instantly rescued
her from their hands, who were
. %
hurrying her away. Sir John did not show himself in this affair but, as it afterwards appeared, he waited, impatiently, at Some distance, the return of one of the Servants, to inform him of the.
success of the undertaking.
But

91
But how great was the Surprise of the young lady, when she found herself in the
protection of her old lover, Mr. Will
«
who altured her of her Safety, and excused himself for not having executed his promise of removing her from Mrs commode’s; by informing her, that he had been Suddenly Sent for, by his father, down into Wales. He renewed, however, his protestations of love to her, and conveyed her to the honse of a female relation, of his, a few miles from. London. Here fly remained, for sometime, concealed, receiving still his addresses
> till, at fall,, the young gentleman, whose love grew impatient, was induced to marry her, without the consent of his parents. He then brought her to town; and, acknowledging her as his
wife, they, together, threw themselves at
the
92

the feet of his father, imploring his bleh ing and forgiveness: but old Mr. Williams, being a man of a moll obllinate dispoiition, and having already, nn his
eye, a match more advantageous for his fon, refused them both, and would not so much as endure the sight of the bride.
Soon after, that unfeeling man took advantage of the al to difiblve the marriage, the clergyman fled, and Mrs. Williams was left, big with child, to Seek her
fortune in the wide world. Nay, her cruel father-in-law carried his revenge
yet farther : for, as no proof of the marriage now appeared, he reported, that she was only his son’s miftrtss, and Sent that gentleman abroad to the Well Indies, till the noise, this affair made, fiiould be over.
Thus Situated, Mrs, Williams, after her lying “inn, found it very difficult to procure


\

93
cure herself a place., She remembered, indeed, an aunt of her’s, who had been
I
kind to her when a child, but Ihe knew not where to find her *, and, if (he could have met with' her, had great reason to doubt its being in the good gentlewoman’s power to afford her any Support.
In the midst of these difficulties, Ihe
-- --. who
was sent for, by a lady at H -- -- -- -,
said, she had heard of her troubles, and who kindly offered to take her into her Service and protection; and ffie gladly
t
embraced the offer. Her mistress, whole
name was Cleveland, behaved to her
\
with great seeming tenderness; but it
was not long before Maria conceived
\
herself to be here in a very dangerous situation: : Sir John who had
before contrived her ruin, having got rid of his lady, was come hither on a visit,
for
94

for a few weeks, from London. At sight of him, the poor creature Ilarted, and
begged She might have immediate leave
/
to quit Mrs. Cleveland, while the latter affected great Surprise at Such a request;
and, after some discourse, extorted from Mrs. Williams, the repetition of what we have already related, concerning this worthy knight. To this story, however, her lady pretended to give no manner of credit, but said, fly was Sure Sir John was a worthy gentleman, and incapable of such baseness. ‘ He is one, ’ conti jiued file, ‘ whom you ought not to dif ‘ oblige, and who, at this jundture, may,
‘ probably, prove a friend to you, not ‘ withstanding any peevish differences you * may formerly have had with him. Be ‘ fidcs, I would warn you, child, how ‘ you lay such things, as you have mentioned



95
tioned, to the charge of a person of Sir * john’s worth,, and credit. I affure you,
‘ he has lately received the charge ‘of a ‘ young lady, of fortune and family, who ‘ is to become his ward till Ihe is of age ‘ Heaven preserve her! then, ’ Said Mrs. Williams; and here the knight hims

self entering the apartment, put an end to the discourfe. He heard all this, and proceeded accordingly. First, he pretended great Surprise at feeing her there 5
and then, by degrees, entered into a conversation with her and Mrs. Cleveland, in
which he leemed to be at great pains to
convince them both, that he had no hand
/
in the intended enlevement; though he knew both of them were fully convinced he was the author of it. Mrs. williams’s behaviour to him, however, being of Such a nature as yielded him no great satisfaction.

«6
faflion, he quitted the room, and she communicated her design to her lady the next morning, of quitting the house.
Mrs. Cleveland Said everything, in
* ' I
her power, to diltuade her from Such a resolution, but in vain : when, at last,
Ihe Saw her upon the point of departing,
0
she Suddenly called her back, telling her, that she missed Some plate, jewels, and other things of value; and being much inclined to believe she (Mrs. Williams)
had them, insisted on detaining her, till
0
her room, boxes, c. should be Searched. She then demanded her keys, which the
trembling innocent gave up. Swooning, in the mean time, with fear. While she was in this condition, her mistress, with a Servant who was devoted to her, and Sir John himself, proceeded to make a mock Search; and, on their return, all
de

97
declared they had found the things in question, Secreted in her box, and different parts of her chamber *, and Mrs. Cleveland declared, Ihe would instantly send for a condable, and Secure her. But
here Sir John affected to intercede and solicit for her pardon, on condition, however, of her staying in the same; place, and amending her condu6l, for the future. To this Maria, now Somewhat recovered from her fright, replied, with honffi: indignation, ‘ No, thou word:
‘ of nien, who art a disgrace to the title
A. '
‘ thou wearelh, I Scorn Such offers. I rely ‘ upon my innocence. Convey me any ‘ where, rather than let me remain here.
I knovr you, Sir, I know you all, and ‘ am resolved to dare your utmoll ma ‘ liceyet remember, there may come ‘ a time, when you will repent this out
VOL. I,
F
9

9'8
rage
THE HAPPY EXTRAVACIANT.
The firmness with which Ihe
pronounced these words. Somewhat a balhed the unworthy confederates: however, as they had gone So far already, and as the accused now infilled on clearing her character; proper officers were Sent for, to take her before a magistrate, where her adversaries were determined, by mere dint of oaths, and Superior credit, to confound the poor unknown creature. But heaven had otherwise ordained it. It happened, that our hero, Truelock, and others, were that day on a visit, at the very juhice’s house, before whom
I _
the matter was brought: and Mr. Truelock, having formerly known miss Aubrey, and being more particularly ac
wiih Mr. N illiams, offered in
bail, together an eminent tradesman of his acquaintance, for her appearance,
which

99
which was instantly accepted. Knowing, likewise, the indifferent character of the haughty knight, some words passed between him and these gentlemen, which had nearly ended in a challenge, between Mr. Truelock and him: but this was prevented, by the interposition of some friends j and he was reserved to a more dreadful fate.
Mrs. Williams now threw herself upon the protection of Mr. Clairville, and his friend •, and, when the affair was brought into court, no prosecutor appearing, fly was honoii rably acquitted. Her protedlors would have advised her to enter an action against Mrs. Cleveland; but she chose to
drop the affair. Soon after, however, it appeared, that the laft mentioned gentlewoman, Mrs. Commode, and the knight.
F 2
had
I
i
had often been confederates In plots like these.
We Should not have been so circumstantial, in the recital of the affair, but, in order to give the reader a more just idea of the charafler of Sir John who will be made farther mention of in the following pages.
\
CHAP
THE HAPPY' EXTRAVAGANT. 10^
CHAP. XII
✓
Adventure of Mr. Truelock with Mrs. Williams — That lady is removed to Mrs. harley’s — An un expe(5led meeting.
R S. Williams was now lodged, in a private manner, at chelsea, at the joint expense of her deliverers. Here Truelock, under the sanction of, their old acquaintance, often visited her, and was kindly received, in consequence of the Services done to her. From time to time
he promised, as She Seemed imeasy at this
\
dependant life, to procure her proper recommendations to Some genteel station in the world; but, it must be owned, nothing was farther from his thoughts than
Such a conduct. Unhappily for Mrs. Williams, her protector was become en
F 3
amoured
lot the happy extravacaht.
amoured of her, and was every day cancelling the obligations done to her, by an ardent and improper Suit. One day, while he was thus employed, Mr, clair yille entered the room, to whom She,
with little hesitation, disclosed the affair. He could not help greatly blaming his friend for such a proceeding, being not so entirely abandoned, himself, to libertinism,
as to think it justifiable. This
occasioned Some altercation j and, in the
end, Mr. Truelock told him, that he never desired to see his face more. ‘ And
* as for you, madam, ’ Said he, ‘ you may
* now Seek protection from Mr. Clair
* alone, whom I plainly perceive
‘ you prefer to me. As to Mr. Will ‘ hams, in all likelihood you will never ‘ hear of him *, and, from this time for
* I, on my own part, abandon you
‘ to

103:
• to your fortune, and your better choice He departed, with little ceremony; and Charles, in earned:, Set about comforting the lady. He proposed her going with him to Mrs. Harley, the gentlewoman with whom he lodged (who was a person of Ilridl: honour, and great good nature), and taking her advice upon the affair; alfuring her, in the mean time, that Ihe had no occasion to be under any apprehensions of danger from him; but that he was still ready to affill her, to the ut moll of bis power.
She was, with some difficulty, prevailed on to follow his advice, and paid, at lall, a visit to Mrs. Harley; when, to her great aftonilhment, she beheld in her person that very aunt whom Ihe had so
much wished to see. The meeting was tender, and affedlionate; and Charles
F 4
enjoyed
104 the happy extrayagant.
enjoyed a Supreme pleasure, in being in ifrumental to it, as it promised So much happiness to both. Mrs. Harley, Since her arrival in town, it Seems, had changed her name, which besore was Aubrey, by marriage, which occasioned the obstacles that arose to her niece in Seeking for her. Her husband, an eminent wine merchant in Westminster, died about two
years besore this period, and lesc her in genteel and affluent circumstances.
This gentlewoman, who had ever liked our hero, took occasion, now, to pour out her warmest acknowledgements
to him for his generous behaviour to her niece, of whom She had heard no tidings. Since her leaving her brother’s in Wales. Mrs. Williams was now taken in as a partner in the business, which was very
advan
  IO
advantageous, and looked on in a very respe(5table light: meanwhile, all possible inquiries were made after her hufbahd, but to no manner of purpose.
Truelock kept his word, and saw our adventurer no more till accident, afterwards, threw them in the way of each other, in a situation of life which neither of them had, at this time, any expe6t ation of occupying,.

i r
G Hap,
to
CHAP. XIII
chara6ter of Mr. Sharpley — Good Advice thrown away.
F Charles had lost, together with
f
Mr. Truelock, all his wild companions, it would, most probably, have been much better for him, at this period; but the cafe was far otherwise. Lord Racket, Sir William Toaftwell,
'’squire Squander, Beau Trifle, and,
9
above all, the very agreeable Mr. Sharp
lay (who,, in his own country, wrote his
name weretis constant companions.
.
For the sake of these gentlemen, and some females altogether as reputable, did Mr. Clairville turn'day into night, hazard perpetually his life and health, and drown,
in

  IO
in clamour, and riotous uproar, the cooler voice of reason. = Yet was he not abandoned; yet was he not past recall to virtue. A generous benevolence, a Social good-humour, and a manly tender ness for the innocent in diftress, still resided in his breast. Checked by the unnatural
hand of his parent alone were
/
the seeds of infant worth, which struggled to Shoot forth in his soul, and which,
in Spite of every obstacle, at last grew, like the camomile, by oppression, and
bloomed amidst: the rough blalls of affliction, though now they withered in a warmer Sun.
But to return. — It mull be owned, that our adventurer,. at this time, actually led a life of entire dissipation. Sharpiey saw and encouraged him in it. He. was a native of Ireland, of a good
family;

reigning family
r
i08  '
family; but who, being Catholics, had, from time to time, laboured under many rellralnts, which the wise policy of a pro teftant government found it neceltary to
lay upon them, as their loyalty to the
was, with great reason, much doubted. He was' of a younger
branch, and came over to England to feek his fortunes •, where, having had address
enough to recommend himself to some people in power, he made an abjuration of his religion, for the sake of obtaining a lieutenancy in the army. His.
patron, however, dying, he had no longer any hopes of preferment in the military; he, therefore, sold out, and resolved to live by his wits, or, as he termed it, as a. gentleman (viz. by gambling, and tricking every one he could overreach). He
had formerly lost considerable Sums by
gaming,
  IO
gatning, anil was novt resolved to make reprisals upon his neighbours. In this dellrudive practice ho also Seemed fond of initiating, Charles taking care, however, that the pupil Should, by no means, become as great an adept, in the Science,, as his malter.. Indeed it was one of the worst Iludies, our hero ever attended to in his life,, and contributed,, more than any of his other extravagancies, to diffipate his fortune, which bore but very little proportion to what would have been required to Support him in Such courses.,
The good Mrs. Harley, Saw, and’ grieved to See, her friend thus running upon his ruin: she even ventured, in a delicate manner,, to remonstrate to him
on the imprudence of his condu<5t •, but ibon perceiving, that Such discourse was
highly disagreeable to him, she, for the
present
\


present, dropped the subject; making an apology for her troublesome friend ihip, that had thus caused her to interfere in affairs which were none of her concern: and Charles congratulated him Self, that he had managed the bulinefs in such a manner as left but little occasion for him ever to expe6t such another re --
f
buke from that quarter..
C H' ’ A - P.
  HI
G H A P. XIV
An extraordinary Seheme — Description of Mrs. Barclay, and her daughters.
U T how difpleased: Soever Mr. Glair
✓
ville might be with the honest freedoms of Mrs. Harley, his own heart wit nelled to him, that he was aflually going
on towards absolute ruin, unless Some medium could be found,, by the help of
which to repair his Ihattered fortunes..
1
His finances were low, and in a way
to be Still lower, if he retrenched not
his expenses, and quitted the company
he kept. This, he could by no means
think of. He was ashamed, however, to
difclose His circumstances; and therefore
applying,, occasionally, a few hours to
writing pieces for the press, he contented
hiinself with this conduct, as a Sure resource

I; i2
»
Source against anything that might happen
in future; and congratulated himself
on having become So great an oeco
k.
nomift.
But, about this time, Mr. Sharpley
proposed, of his own accord, to our adventurer
that he Should endeavour to
better his fortune by marriage; a project
which the other, on his part. Seemed willing
enough to try. For this purpose,
his Irish friend got him introduced at the
house of one Mrs.. Barclay, a woman of
fortune and fashion, who had two daughters,
to the elder, of., whom ■ he recom
mer.ded him, promising him all the success
his moll Sanguine hopes could have
prompted him to expert; :
Charles, indeed, found himself well
received by that gentlewoman; j though
It
II i
I Hi
  Ilj
it was very apparent that fly thought of nothing less than of his addressing either of her daughters as a lover. The truth was, this very Mrs. Barclay was the widow of Mr. sharpley’s great patron and friend, who had first procured him a commifiion, and afterwards otherwise affided him. In return for these kindnefses, he was willing to injure her family in the tendered: point ♦, and had,
more than once, been known to make
\
matter of bargain and [ale of the did posal of her daughters, as if they had been his actual property; though he had
such an effrontery that he could deny the charge, even to his accusers faces, and ensure to himself the belief of a downright falsity, while the mod glaring truth
opposed him. He had, indeed, dipu lated with Mr. Clairville for a sum not
'very
114
V
very fmalf to be paid on the receipt of
his wife’s fortune; and, on this consideration
alone, wished success to his enterprise.
Charles, though in his heart he:
could not help acculing Sharpley of ingratitude, was yet, like mankind' in ge --
neral, well contented to take the advantage of it, and used the treason he disliked the traitor..
But, moil unluckily for his intent, and contrary to the advice of his Hibernian friend, he pitched upon the younger in head of the' elder daughter of Mrs. Barclay, to, prosecute his dehgns. upon; personal charms seeming to have been the motive that threw the balance into her Scale, since their fortunes were declared to be equal, by their mother. It may not be amiss to give the reader the picture of these two young ladies,
First
\
HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT. II
»
Firll, then, miss Mariana, the elder daughter of Mrs. Barclay, was a tall, well made woman, but of an aspedt rather forbidding; generally haughty, but more remarkably vain. Though she often swelled with such pride as made all around her unhappy; yet, when the sweet music of adulation was used, it soothed her into a moult languishing and child ilh softness. With her, nothing was impoitible to flattery, and She lived so much upon vanity, that a Satirical old gen
tlcman, of her acquaintance, used to Say, it was her daily bread. Such was the person recommended by Mr. Sharpley.
miss Constantia, the younger daughter, was directly oppoflte to the character we have above described. She was a fair
compllexioned, blue eyed beauty, about
♦
the middling statures her features vrere
regular
3
\
Il  '
- /
regular, and never, like her sifter’s, distorted by affectation j a calm Serenity dwelled in her countenance, but still deeply tinctured with the serious.. was mild of deportment, but steady to her purpose 5, possessed a great share of penetration and, if there were anything ftie was proud of, it was her virtue; while Ihe thought vice the most despicable thing; on earth. Such was the lady whom Mr. Clairville chose for himself, i^et the reader judge how much (in a Scheme like his) he was likely to gain by this conduct,.
To do him justice, he was not insen fible of the difference, in the tempers of
the Sisters; yet his vanity prompted him
#
to imagine, he had made a conquest of:
the youngerand that, in Spite of all her prudence, Ihe was entirely devoted to
him;
I ■ ( «
i »
I
\
i i
N
  117
him •, but Constantia was not So easily
won. It is true, Ihe had, at first, viewed
our adventurer with a favourable eye;
9
till, perceiving, at last, his drift, she gave
herself the trouble to inquire into his
circumstances, some of which he had
been careless enough to mention, in discourse:

and finding, by all accounts.
that they were rather embarrafsed than
otherwise, fly presently conceived no
yy xxiv. X v x* ux jr v.v^xxvwx V XXV
high opinion of his integrity : yet, whe
mm m M ^ m
there through a very refined policy, or
through an unconquerable prejudice in
his regard, she still suffered him to proceed.
His address, his appearance, and.
above all, the unsuspicious nature of the
old lady, gave him many opportunities
of prosecuting his Scheme; and he was
ever full of exultations, when he related.
to his friend, the progress of his amour.
But
Il
But Sharpley (long hackneyed in the ways of the world) was very dubious of its success. ‘ Had this, ’ said he, ‘ palted ‘ with Mariana, I would have thought ® Something of it; but now, upon my * faith, and conscience, I am afraid it ‘ will all prove a great Nothing, at laft.’
Yet, undismayed, our hero prosecuted his adventure, and fancied, at every turn, a fortune falling into his lap. Constantia
humoured his vanity j and he imagined himself to be the happiest man in the world.
CHAP.

119
CHAP. XV
A great Disappointment — Mr. sharp ley’s consolatory Advice on the
Subject.
A
F T E R Charles had long waited on miss Conltanda, made her many presents, and used every art to gain her favour, he, at length, was Surprised to see her grow very cool towards him; but this myllery was Soon cleared up, when
one day, while they were alone together, and he was making Ibme of his rapturous professions of love, that young lady stopped him Short, and thus addressed
hini.
* Mr. Clairville, ’ said Ihe, ‘ I might
* well be fnrprized to see the pains you
‘ take to recommend yourself to me,
‘ were
120
‘ were I not well acquainted with your ‘ motives. I See you are about to Spealc; ‘ but oblige me So far, as to hear me, ‘ before you attempt to reply. You are ‘ a young gentleman, I find, who have ‘ nearly diffpated your fortunes in the
‘ pleasures of the town, and have very ‘ generoufiy taken this meth< d of retriev
‘ ing them •, so much the more is our ‘ family obliged to those who recom ‘ Hiended you : — Here, Sir, are your ‘ prefents’ [producing them •, ] ‘ may ‘ your next scheme, Sir prove more ‘ Successful, and may it be a more ho ‘ nourable one
Charles was aftonilhed, and confused beyond measure •, yet Self, he attempted to make an apology; still vowing, however indigent he might
be that love alone had prompted him to
5
recovering him
address

  II
address miss Oonllantia Barclay: to which the rigidly virtuous beauty thus replied.
‘ Sir, it seems So difficult a matter for ‘ you to make a defence, that, really, I ‘ am in pain for you: but I would ad ‘ vise you, in future, to undertake on ‘ ly such things as may excuse them ‘ Selves. Oh! Mr. Clairville, how widely
‘ have you deviated from the paths of ‘ virtue, and propriety! But yet recall
‘ your better reason to your aid, and ‘ thole nobler Sentiments which once, I
‘ am well altured, you entertained j and ‘ own, at last, that, however you may
‘ have been disappointed in my regard, ‘ you have found, in me, a friend. Go,
‘ Sir, and, for the future, put it out ‘ of any one’s power thus to reproach ‘ you. !*
VOL. I.
G
She

She withdrew, and left her lover in a difconsclate situation, with the presents,
in a little parcel, lying by him, on the table. He loon quitted the house, cursing his own vanity; and retired, in a very
ill humour.
The first; thing he did, was to Seek for his friend, and disclofe to him the ill fuccess he had met with in his court ihip. Mr. Sliarpley very warmly observed, that his advice had been good,
and Mr. Clairville must thank himself for his ill fortune. ‘ For, ’ said he, ‘ had
‘ you been contented to make your ad
‘ drelles to the vain fool whom 1 pointed
*
‘ out to you, the world to a farthing,
‘ you would have been a winner, at any ‘ rate : but you must be bidding for the
‘ highest prize, and so you have lost
>
‘ the whole without a struggle j and who -
is
THE H APPY EXTRAVAGANT. I £3
‘ is to blame? Surely he, who would ‘ not wait for orders, but run away, in. ‘ the middle of them, before he had any
‘ at all
Such was the confoiation that Charles received from his abettor : when, with a very Serious countenance, he thus addressed
him. ‘ Look ye, Mr. Sharpley, ‘ I did not come to you for your wit, but ‘ for your Serious counsel. I alture you,
‘ my affairs are in such a situation as will
‘ not brook delays.’ Sharpley here, taking him by the hand, begged that he
would forget all that was past, and depend on his future Support, and assistance. ‘ To be Serious, ’ Said he, ‘ I am Sorry ‘ for what you tell me: yet, had you
I
‘ courted the elder Sister, this would not ‘have happened; but this is over and ‘ gone, and ail we have to do is, to for
G 2
get
124
‘ get the paji^ now the future is com
/
‘ upon us. So be of good courage,
1
‘ and you fbali never know what happy ‘ fortune is in flore for you yet. I will
‘ Hand by you longer than ever I have ‘ breath in my body, *
\
Our adventurer was not much com
f
sorted by this elegant harangue, but began to think, very deeply, on his present situation. He found his money melting away from him, like Snow before the fun, and his expenses daily increasing, while those, who lived upon his luxury, were perpetually harassing him, and, like harpies, waiting to prey upon his vitals.
CHAP.
  12§
CHAP. XVL
A Transition from Bad to worse — A
»•
Struggle between Piideand reason
M
R Clairville now resoived to make forne desperate puflies at the gaming table, in order, if possible, to retrieve his dfcurnftantes: but, after having tried this experiment, for Several evenings, with various success, *,
at one time, he found himself a gainer of upwards offive hundred pounds, yet, such Was the itch for more, which gene'
'\
rally attends this pernicious employment, that he could not rest, till, by a fatal hazard, he lost it back again, together with
He

all his own cash, to the last guinea, then withdrew, full of rnxious fhou.ohrg
O
and having, with gr at difficulty, and af fedlcd gaiety, took leave of the com
G 3
pany
126  .
pany, retired to consult his pillow. Now, for the first time, did otir adventurer experience the bitter reflections of
I
misery and approaching want. He lay, all the hours of darkness, tossing to and
fro, as if the bed he reposed on had
* /
been filled with Spikes,, and pointed wea pons. daylight, at last, broke through his windows, unv^ejcome as the gloom of night j and when over wearied nature
sunk, at length, to rest, he was immersed in feverifhdreams. Sometimes he thought himself abandoned, forsaken, and asking alms in the public streets; at others, he fancied himself fubje<5l to ail the horrors of a loathsome prisori. Thus did he'pass
the hours allotted to rest; and, when he arose, found himself as weary as ever he had been before, in his nights of riot, and debauchery. despair was pictured in his
coun

127
■

countenante, and the alteration was visible to all who Saw him; but, more particularly, to the good Mrs. Hurley. Not
k ^
withstanding the check Ihe had besore received, file again, in the moil gentle manner, Spoke to her lodger. At first, he would fain have laid all to the account of his ill health j but she vras not So deceived •, and pressed him, still farther, on the subject; when, already much chagrined with his Ioffes, and prompt to take everything in the word fense; ‘ I tell
you
lam, ’ laid he, ‘ it becomes
‘ you not to remonstrate thus with me. ‘ If any money be due to you, I shall ‘ take care to see it paid; and farther, I
‘ fupf'ofc, you ha e little occasion, or in
✓
‘ clination, to trouble yourself with me
Haughtily as this was delivered, Mrs.
. >
Harley still pa fisied in her endeavours
G 4
to

V
128
to Serve him. Mindful of her niece preserved, and convinced, unthinking as he was, of the generosity of his heart. She
thus replied : ‘ Unkind return! How ‘ have I deserved this treatmentwhen
‘ did I aslc you for money No, Mr. ‘ Clairville, from a real regard, alone,
‘ does my impertinence (if Such it be) ‘ proceed, — My dear young gentleman,
‘ lay yourself open to me, and, for the
f
‘ sake of yourself, your family, and, above ‘ all, for your generosity to my Sister, I ‘ will give not only my advice, but aflift ‘ ance, to the extent of my abilities. For ‘ heaven’s Sake, accept the offer, before ‘ it be too late.’ Mrs. Williams entering at this moment, her aunt conjured her to join her influence with Mr, Clairville.
This Scene, though it passed not among the great ones of the earth, exhibited

129
bited Some Striking situations' ' one
y
fide Stood Mrs. Harley, in an attitude really a^edting, the'tears Standing in her eyes, armed with all the dignity of pitying though offended virtue, follieiting him to return, once more, to her paths:
i
on the other fide was the Still beautiful Mrs. Williams, with a heart Swelling with gratitude, and eyes the moult expreffive in the world. She presed his hand, with a friendly affection, and warmly fegonded the entreaties of her kinswoman. Whilst,
in the middle (his eyes turned, as it were, inward on himself, as if he would inspedt
his inmost heart), young Clairville Stood, in Suilen Silence, contending passions labouring in his bosom. His high Spirit,
at last, determined his resolution *, and he made 'his final reply. ‘
.you,
‘ whom once I had the power to serve j
G 5 ‘ and
1^0

J '
_ >
‘ and you, Mrs. Harley, Hear my answer, ‘ to your proffered kindness, which will * not admit of any farther reply. I have ‘ heard all that you have urged, and I
‘ have weighed it well. — My heart, flute ‘ born as it is, bends to acknowledge ‘ the superiority of your virtees. I wish ‘ I had sooner copied them. But for ‘ your offers (kind as they are) of fup ‘ port and affiflancfe, I willi mull, de ‘ dine them. Nay, more from hente
‘ forward you mufl no longer deem me ‘ your lodger. A few days, only, I shall ‘ wait; but I muss add, that if any more ‘ such discourse passes, as I have just been
‘ witness to, I ftiall dispense even with
/
‘ that ceremony.’ And So saying, he ■withdrew, hastily;; drefting himself, went abroad for the day.
CHAP.
  II
CHAP. XVII Mr. Clairville diftrelted
Schemes
with Sharpley to keep up his Credit His strange Behaviour to a real Friend.
TER much debating with himself, our adventiirer determined, at lap, to lend for Mr. Sharpley, who had so warmly promised him advice, and Support; for he was more inclined to lay himfelt open, to this his companion, than to any other, on account of their intimacy. Accordingly, he Sent for him to the Temple Exchange coffeehouse, where being arrived, with a heavy heart he dis cloled his affairs to his fupposed friend. Sharpley, who by no means thinking affairs to be so bad with Charles, as now he
found them, was Somewhat astonished at
/
what
/
THE hatr^v £x'fravada^^t.
what he heard; but, after a pause, he thus addrefied the youth. ‘ Why, faith,
‘ i’m not a little Sorry that I cari’t altiil:
‘ you, in point of money. Galli is d — n’d
/ ^
* low i but what’s this you tell me? you ‘ are drove to the uttermost distress, with ‘ this ring, and other jewels, about you?’ He then proceeded to inform Mr. Glair
ville, how he might convert some trinkets
0
into real money, and Supply the place of
with mock ftones, which none would have the incivility to examine By these means, and credit procured with
X
tradesmen, on the consideration of the appearance which he still kept up, he was enabled, still, to cut a figure in the world; and his friend persuaded him to make all the Show he could, with a view
once riqore to try his fortune amongst the
‘ For, ’ said he, ‘ if you accomplish


\
* complifh not this great end in a little ‘ time, your blaze will be short liv’d,
‘ like that of a candle, which burns ‘ ftrongell when it goes out
Our adventurer plainly Saw the force of this reasoning, uncouthly as it was expressed; and, accordingly. Set in earnest about profiting by his frefii Supply. In the first place, he discharged his lodgings, and left Mrs. Harley, almofi: without a farewell; as he deemed it now doubly necdfary, to quit his old connexions,
where the heinous crime of poverty might be charged upon him. He altumed, before her, many unnecelfary airs: the good lady only sighed, as justly imagining that this was but a dc*sperate effort to Support his tottering fortunes. On his part,
he was now more frequent than ever, at
\
all places of public diversion: many
Schemes
134
Schemes were formed, and as often broken again, by the vigilance of Some ladies, and the natural fharpness of others i
and, after about six weeks Spent in this
» •
manner, Mr. Clairville, in Spite of all his
\
care, and the arts of C harpley, who was willing to assist him with anything but money, found, if not relieved, he mull fink at last. He had now, once more, occasionally, recourse to his pen; and, particularly, to the dramatic muse, having little doubt of fuccess in this undertaking, So chat, in a fiiort time, he had fi niihed a piece, which he called a comedy; and, havjng procured the patronage of the earl of L *******^ an Irish peer, thought
hus, again
himself Sure of its success.
X
>
he lulled himself into a fond Security,
CHAP,

\
  i35
A
CHAP. XVIII
Two Letters, in a very different Style, An odd Adventure with a Lady,
S Charles found himself dropping again, apace, from the Sphere of life which he had So long struggled to maintain himself in, he was frequent, in his applications to his patron, to get his piece accepted; who, at last, wearied out with his constant attendance on him, told him, he had fulfilled his promise; and, when next he chose to inquire, he might be sure to find it with Mr. as his
lordlhip’s interest lay chiefly at the new house. He went thither, and was received, in great state, by the m -- -- -- -- r;;
after much discourse, on the nature of the piece, and that of dramatic works in general, proteffed, he had not read it
yetj

1^6
yet; but appointed a day, on which he fliouid come again. After much a.ftend ance, and having gone. Several times, backwards and forwards, he was, one mcming relieved, from the rack of ex pedl'ation, by calling at his house, where
that unfeeling m — — r had let him his comedy, and the following letter.
‘SIR,
‘ I haveperosed your ^'enormance, and
• find it by rio meals calculated for me.
• My friends have iidvifed me asainf ac ‘ cepting that,, or anything else bit nm
‘ fical pieces. So you need give no far ‘ there trouble, either to yourself, or
‘ Yours, c.
< j	>
f
This polite episde threw the disappointed author into terrible vexation; all
the
/ -
  137
the way from the m
s hoiise he
fretted, till he infensibly found himself
in the Park, in the midst of a throng of
gazers, whose e es were attracted, by
his extravagant geiitires) and almost dis
trafted demeanour. From hence he
Ilrayed towards the Tempic Exchange
coffeehouse, Scarcely knovhng whither he
went, his hock being reduced to about
three pounds, and his debts very great.
But, when he came thither, he found a
letter left for him, of a tenor very different
from that laconic one which had caused
him so much uneasiness. It was couched
in these terms.
To CHARLES CLAIRVILLE, Escu]
‘SIR,
‘ Althonch I have not the honour to
‘ be personally known to you j yet, as I
think

‘ you Iliall
138'
‘ think you a worthy man, and highly ‘ deserving of friendihip, and confidence, ‘ if you will meet my attendant, in the ‘ great piazza, this evening, at Seven,
be entrusted with a Secret ‘ greatly to your advantage. Fail not. ‘ Adieu.
, ‘ A. L R.’
‘ P. S. Bring no one with you : if you ‘ Should, depend on it, they will be ‘ observed, and you will lose your ‘ labour. But be confident; fear ‘ nothing •, and you will have no ‘ cause to repent your boldness
Charles paused, a while, on the contents of this, but looked upon himself as bound in honour to conceal the affair from everybody, even from Sharpley
himselsi to whom, however, he com mu
♦
nicated the manager’s Ihoirt and genteel
billet.
  i39
billet. — ‘ And what, next, ' are you pro ‘ poling, Mr. Clairvilie, ’ Said the other.
‘ vv^hat would you advise me to, Mr. ‘ Sharpley ?’ — ‘ Why, there is the thing, ‘ now, * returned he. ‘ I am even at my ‘ wit’s end mysdf. suppose you were ‘ for going to the Eall or West Indies?
‘ Are you in earnest, Sir ?’ — ‘ Certainly,
‘ Mr. Clairvilie •, I don’t know anything ‘ you can do better. Many a great man, ‘ here, has made his fortune abroad *, and
‘ no disparagement at all — ‘ But how, ‘ Sir, Shall I be fitted out for the voy ‘ age ?* — ‘ Why you have, already, some ‘ very good things *, and you must Shift
‘ as well as you can, and borrow money ‘ for the rest j if you can go in any gen ‘ teei capacity Our adventurer soon perceived, by this conversation, that, when his last Stake ftiould be thrown, his
nearest
140
»
nearest companions would be very glad, at any rate, to get rid of him. He, therefore, thanked Sharpley for his counsel; and Said, he would' take another time to consider of that matter.
Meanwhile, he was impatient till the time appointed came that he was to be
conveyed to the unknown author of his friendly letter, whom he easily concluded to be a woman.
Before seven, accordingly, he was leen
anxioufiy waiting, in the piazza, for the Mercury that was to convey him to his fancied Venus, looking at his watch, and accusing the tardy hours, which crept so tediouhy along : and never did expecfling lover wait with more ardency for'his mistress, evtn in that moment when liie promised to prove most kind, than did our
hero.


  141
hero, for this romantic adventure, so doubly Suited to his taste and circum fiances.
At length, the so long wish’d for hour arrived; and, within the Space of two minutes after, a livery Servant appeared, and accolled Mr. Clairville in a moll re ipeclful manner •, desiring him to follow him, which he did, the length of a street, where a very genteel equipage flood in waiting, which drove very faff, and, in a short time, fet him down in a genteel street, near St. james’s Square. He was desired, by his conduflor, to walk into a genteel apartment, and wait till his lady came down; who, in a few minutes, made her appearance. She was a tall, majestic, handsome female; of a fine complexion; but her eyes were rather too
full of fire. She was past thirty, but had,
still.
V •
142
still, a bloom on her countenance j and her figure was altogether very pleasing to C harles, whose amorous turn was now highly encouraged, by the advantages he thought he must certainly reap with a per son of her fine appearece. He rose to receive her, with great form, and compliment. ‘ Sit, Mr. Clairville, ’ Said She, with an air of great freedom; ‘ it is with ‘ a viev7 only to Serve you, that I have
‘ Sent for you hither. I know your fpi ‘ rit; yet, in Spite of it, your distresses ‘ are no Secret to me. But it will be your ‘ own fault, if here they have not an end.
‘ I shall take you. Sir, under my imme ‘ diate protection. There will come a. ‘ time, when I may require, perhaps,
‘ your gra'itude j in the mean time, you
♦
‘ shall be furnished with an equipage ber

‘ sitting a person of the first rank, and
‘ every
  143
* everything Suitable *, and, from this ‘ hour, your company is ever welcome ‘ here, without the formality of an invit ‘ ation But, for the present, let us drop ‘ this topic of discourse, and seek for ‘ one less serious, •, I am rather dif ‘ posed to be cheerful, and would have
f
‘ you so too.’
A conversation, on various subjects, ensued in which the lady, who proved to be the French marchioness de discovered
a great fund of sense, and under
/

She proved as good as her word, and
Mr. Clairville was soon furnished with an
«
equipage, and all things elfe, necessary for a person of the first fortune and quality, and every one supposed him to be chosen by the lady for an husband.
Even
\

144
Even Sharpley found himself Secretly impelled to pay him a kind of involuntary homage, vrhile at the same time he remarked,
that if Charles had not taken
#
his advice, and kept up his appearance till the very lall, this good fortune could never havft befallen him : ‘ but now, * said he, ‘ by my help, the candle is lighted ‘ again, before it was gone out
Above a month passed in this manner, Charles Hill visiting the Marchioness de R, with whom he was more charmed, every day; yet could he not conceive what to make of the affair: for, whenever he addressed his benefadtress as a lover, she always put him off with a geiv teel, but smart raillery, and left him just where he began.
Finding
V
  i45
\ •
Finding himself, however, by these means, railed in the world, and likely to be advanced still higher; he resolved to trouble himself as little as possible about what might farther be intended; and sat down contented with his present lon
vol. I.
H
)
e H A p.
✓
146
CHAP. XIX
A dismal Scene, and a disriial Dialogue Clairville Suffers for Heroic Virtue
O R T U N E, perhaps, never dealt, with any one, more whimsically than
she did with our adventurer; and, indeed, his own extravagant conduct often helped her So t do: while, between both, he was perpetually embarrassed. However that might be, it is certain, that, at present, he was but in a very precarious and dubious Situation; and it was an even chance, whether he Should make his fortune, or mar it, by this extraordinary adventure.
I
Meanwhile, he was resolved to take on
him the man of quality; and this he did
with the more pleasure, as he saw it was
'grateful
  i47
rateful in the eyes of the marchioness, who, on her part, had always affected tnuch state and ceremony.
But the time was now come, when this mystery was to be unravelled, which the lady prepared him for, by dropping hints of it, from time to time. At length, he perceived, one day, his patroness to put on a more fmilin^ countenance than he had ever observed her to
L
wear before, and to be amazingly full of tenderness towards him. While he was toying with her, in consequence of this difposition, she suddenly harted from him, saying, in French, ‘ Well,. mc n * sieur, you would have me believe you ‘ are charmed with my person; what « would you do to be put in poftelticn of ‘ it? ■ ‘ I Scarcely know that thing on ‘ earth, * returned he, ‘ which your lady
H 2
fhio
mg.
148
‘ Ship could comrnand, and which I would ‘ not execute, to obtain So high a bless
‘ Gallantly answered, Monlieur, ’ laid the French lady; ‘ but this evening ‘ we shall, perhaps, put you to the trial And, having Said this, She departed, calling Such a languishing look upon him, as melted his very soul.
In the evening, the marchioness desired him to attend her in her closet; and,
when he came thither. She begged his ex cuse for quitting him a few moments. ‘ There are books, * Said Ihe, ‘ proper to
entertain you
in the interim Perusing
those which lay on the table, he was Surprised to find Some of the moll
4
dismal treatises he had ever read, both in French and English.
It was a full quarter of an hour before
the lady returned, dressed in deep mourning,

  i49
ing, and holding a lamp in her hand, and commanded her guefi: to follow her; when, descending Several flights of private flairs, Ihe led him into a stone vault,
arched over, and hung round with black; where, in the niches, flood two coffins,
which Seemed to have been lately placed there. -- "‘ In this place, ’ Said she, ‘ flran ‘ ger, amidst these horrors, I demand, ‘ that you Swear to keep Secret, whatever
‘ I am now about to disclose to you : So ‘ that, if you Shrink unequal from th
‘ execution, not a Syllable of the defigri
\
‘ may escape you. Hesitate not a mo
‘ ment *, you have already gone too far ‘ for me to Suffer you to recede, till you
‘ have Sworn. You See the entrance of ‘ this vault is made fast, and you are in ‘ my power: if, therefore, you comply ‘ not, this dagger Shall prefenrly make
H 3
you
150
‘ you as one of those who will here build ‘ their everlasting house. Swear, then
‘ upon this Sacred book; swear by all
\
‘ your hopes, here and hereafter, never to * reveal what you Shall see, or hear.’
While Ihe spoke thus, her whole frame shook, her features grew distorted, and her countenance was covered with a sombrous gloom. The Loves and Graces vanillied from around her, and She Seemed
transformed to an avenging Fury, The
%
.dreary vault, the feeble glimmering of the twinkling lamp, and the fable ornaments which bedecked the subterraneous mansion, all contributed to diffuse horror around. Thus circumstanced, Charles Swore Secrecy to all that should
come to his knowledge; but absolutely resused the leall fhadov/ of a promise to
execute any plan, till he Should be fully
informed
  151
insormed of it, in every particular. ‘ At ‘ tend,, then, * Said the marchioness, ‘ to
‘ the tale I am going to relate, and blame
* me for my conduct, if you can. The
‘ two noble families of and V
‘ have ever been enemies in France;
¥
* the old count, of the latter name, ‘ wounded my father mortally, in a ren ‘ counter, who, on his deathbed, charg
‘ ed my brother and myself never to for
• or have any connexions with the
‘ family; but the murderer got his par ‘ don from the king, on pretence that
‘ the deceased drew the first Sword iri
<
‘ the quarrel. islotwithftanding this litu
^ ation of affairs, his Son professed him ‘ self violently in love with me: I re
‘ jeded his Suit with disdain, as also did ‘ my friends; and the enmity between
* the two families was renewed. About
H 4
this
152
‘ this time I'was informed of a very im
i
‘ portant secret by my brother, which ‘ was no other than that he was not ‘ born in wedlock; though, by my late ‘ father’s great art, in keeping it a secret,
‘ and the vail interest and power he had,
‘ at court, the title and fortune devolved ‘ on him, and was prevented from de ‘ scending to a very distant and obscure ‘ branch of the family, who had not Ib ‘ much as the thought of claiming it. I ‘ was married, sometime after my pa ‘ rent’s death, to the marquis de a gentleman of a noble family, whole ‘ name I bear j but he dying, within two
‘ years, left me a widow j at which time ‘ (after the peace concluded between the ‘ two nations) I came over to England.
The young Count de V came hi ‘ there also, and here renewed his Suit to
‘ me.

  i53
‘ me, when (shame on my weakness) I ‘ fell So passionately in love with him, ‘ being grown a very handsome youth, ‘ that I not only admitted his addreltes; ‘ but, in an unguarded hour, overcome * with desire, gave myself up to his em ‘ braces, on his word of honour, that he ‘ would marry me, which I persuaded ‘ myself that he durft not forfeit. Within
‘ these two months he has left me for an other, and, on my Severely reproaching ‘ him with his perfidy, the villain has ‘ made a Solemn oath, that he will not ‘ only expose the Itain call upon my honour

which alone might be Sufficient
‘ to draw on me hatred, contempt, or ‘ even death itsels, from my relations; ‘ blithe has vowed, likewise, to.publiffi, ‘ in France, the Secret of my brother’s ^ birth, which I was weak enough to en
H
5
trust,
i'54
‘ mill him with, in confidence, and the
‘ disclosure of which mull bring inevitable ruin upon us — This triumph, “(Said the wretch) I owe to our family, “for whose sake I have brought yours
“to shame 5 and
vain wornan, it
^ ✓r

“was which firll caiifed me to seek thy
“love.” — Is this usage to be born? No,
>
‘ wretch, thou (halt find my Vengeande
* shall overtake thee, though my owh
A '
* arm should put it in execution. But, ‘ gallant Ilranger, if you will perform ‘ this just piece of revenge, I will fur ‘ nifh you with the Secret means to destroy ‘ him, and his paramour, and my persdn ‘ and fortunes, shall be at your disposal. ‘ These coffins shall receive them, if
* ‘ they are slain here 5 if not, these coffins ‘ shall by me be kept as relics, in re
* of. their deaths. For us,
‘ wc

■  i55
‘ we will fly to France, where my brother
I
‘ will receive you with open arms, and ‘ glory in the alliance. How say you,
* Sir, are you mute! Whatnot a ‘ word ?*
%
‘ Attentively, madam, ’ returned our
I
hero, ‘ I have heard your story, and pity
* moll flncerely, your unhappy paltion, ‘ and more unhappy love — ‘ Pity, Sir! ‘ and is that all ?* — ‘ Nay, I have heard
‘ your ladyship; now. Madam, pray ‘ hear me. — I am not insensible to your ‘ charms, still lets So to the favours I ‘ have received at your hands; but, in ‘ return for these, shall I involve both ‘ you and myself in the guilt of murder, ‘ and in cold blood? What injury has ‘ the count ever done to me? On what * pretence could I even challenge him to
What
shall
lf, 6  '
‘ shall excuse me, for privately murder ‘ ing both him and an innocent woman?
‘ Oh! banish, for heaven’s sake, that ‘ fierce fiend, Pafiion, and call yonr reason and your virtue to your aid. Re ‘ fledi, but a moment, on the conse ‘ quences of such fatal crimes, and har ‘ bour the thoughts of them no longer.,
I
‘ I own, I have been wild, careless, and
* impatient of restraint; yet, thus called
* on, pardon me, madam, if I mull, per
‘ force, defend the cause of Virtue, and
\
* even refuse so inestimable a bribe, as
* your ladylhipi: to win me over from her ‘ dictates.’
‘ Death and confusion. Sir! Mull I *• hear this ?’ exclaimed the haughtjr marchiones?^ ‘ Do you know whom you ‘ speak to? Do you reflect, that I have
* an absolute power over you ?’
I do
%
  i57
‘ I do, ’ Said Charles, ^ and I would to
* Heaven, you had at least, a power as ‘ absolute, madam, over yourself.’
‘ Am I thus treated, ’ Saidfhe, ‘ because ‘ I have been dishonoured by that base
i
* dissembler?? have been courted by ‘ princes, and Shall again, when he is ‘ laid low in earth. But why do I trifle ‘ thuswill you not altifl; me? Is that ‘ your final resolution ?’
‘ It is, madam, ’ he replied, ‘ and
* fixed as Fate itself.’ — ‘ Have you no
‘ fear, then, no dread upon your Spirits?
4
*■ Not conscious, madam, of having of ‘ fended, either against Heaven, or your
‘ ladyship, I have no reason to be afraid
Swelling now with passion, she ran towards Charles with her drawn dagger,
but he waited her with such a noble firmness.

IS
ness, a3 daunted her resolution, though he was unarmed, and made not the least show of oppoetion. Checking her anger, Ihe then tried the most mollifying and tender blandilhments, and displaying her bosom to his view, with well diflem bled tears.
And all the arts
‘ Of wilful woman lab’ring for her ‘ purpose,
ihe vowed that instant to. plunge the poniard in her own breast, if he denied
her Suit. He flood near enough to pre
\
her from so dire a crime, but still
\
not the firmness of his refolutiop. At last, recovering her exhausted Spirits,, she iheathed the dagger, and finished the conversation, in the following manner. ‘ It is well, stranger, you have
* conquered by obstinacy. I will not in
‘ jure
  15^
‘ jure your life Go, coward I you are ‘ freej but think not to pafs unpu
‘ nilhed. Prepare to lay aside dress,
«
‘ equipage, and grandeur; and to return ‘ to that poverty which well, you know,
‘ awaited you, when first I saw you,
‘ worthless as you were, and took you un
‘ dermyprotedlion. Go; andmaybeg ‘ gary, sickness, and disappointmenr, attend upon your Ifeps !*
Thus ended this conversation, and
/
charles’s ihort liv’d grandeur with it. He departed, and, on the Succeeding morning, the marchioness Sent for all those
things which had been immediately presented by; hr; and also left orders for the tradesmen to draw all their bills
S
for what elfe he had bought on the
strength of her credit, upon him; tell
%
them, that Ihe had left value in his
hands to discharge them.
CHAP.
6o
 '.
C H AP. XX
A very Short Chapter.
TW
D days after his degradatiorr, did our adventurer shut himself
up, and was invisible to every one but
to the messengers from the marchioness;
but on the third, hearing of her boundless
cruelty, which we have related in the
former chapter, he decamped, having
firll discharged his lodging, and left,
packed up in chelts, his new purchased
clothes, linen, c., in part of payment
to the creditors; a circumstance which
plainly proved that he had not,, however,
lost all Sight of principle..
/
But now he judged it necestary to change, at once, his quarters, his company, and his dress j and, contriving to
sell
  ll
sell Some of those gay Suits which were originally his own, he changed them for plainer; and, putting on the man of business,
took lodgings in the eastern suburbs of the town, where he pafsed for a clerk out of employment.
This was, indeed, a great fall, from the
life he had been accullomed to experience. Initead of grand company, illuminated apartments, music, gay attendants, and an easy equipage *, he now found himself reduced to a two pair of stairs room at a public house, where the accommodations were bad, and the company often worse. But he had, however, this one comfort; that whereas his follies alone had formerly reduced him to diltress, he owed his misfortune, this time, to a perseverance in the paths of
Virtue :

j62
Virtue : with this, alone, he consoled
himself; and ^ith the determination he
had formed, never more to run into
those extravagances which had coll him
so dear. We Shall see how well he kept his word.
CHAP.
/
  163
CHAP. XXL
*
Charles turned Man of Business— — with Sample, and another old Friend.
u
XT

A VIN G now Set himself, in earnest, about qualifying himself for a clerkship, he constantly looked over the news papers, in order to see what
merchants wanted any one in that way; still resolving to go by a feigned name. One day he chanced to light upon one, where Seventy poundsannum t besides
I
perquilites, were offered: he liked the terms, and immediately applied to the advertisers; when, to his great surprise and confusion, in the persons of
the merchants, he beheld Mr. Sample, and his Son, now raised greatly in the world, and turned Quakers. He doubted at first, if he Should treat with them;
but
fettling the preliminaries, when
164
but, at last, recollecting his necessitous situation, he began, to talk with them about terms. In the course of the conversation, he had accidentally pulled out a piece of paper to figure upon, and was just busily employed, with the fon, in
old
Sample, leaning over their Shoulders,
i
alked his name. With Ibme hesitation,
he replied, ‘ Mason, ’ which was the name
/
he determined to take upon him. ‘ Ma
‘ fon!’ said the old gentleman! ‘ and
«
‘ how long has it been Mason, pray? I
4
‘ believe it now to be Clairville; and ‘ there is one of thy letters, which thou
‘ hast been careless enough to leave on
‘ the counter.’ — ‘ And if my name were ‘ Clairville, Sir, ’ returned he, reddening,
‘ I suppose that would be no objedlion.’'
‘ Indeed, friend, but it would, and a ‘ very great one, ’ said the old man; ‘ for
‘ I once
  l6
/
‘ I once knew Such an one, a wild com ‘ panion with my ungracious kinsman ‘ Tfuelock, but with as fanflified a face ‘ as thou hast. I believe, friend, thou ‘ little thoughteft, at that time, it would ‘ come to be so low with thee. Thou
mighteft have taken better care.
I
^ could, even now, help thee to things ‘ more advantageous than my place;
‘ but really, friend, I think thy prin ‘ ciples bad enough to corrupt those of a saint; and I will neither employ thee ^ myself, nor can I, in conscience, recommend thee to others So saying, he turned his back on Charles; and his fon, following him, told him, he had his answer, and might be gone. The trutii is, they were mindful of the affront put upon them, as mentioned in a former part of this volume, and now had full Scope for their revenge,
CHAP.
166
CHAP. XXII
A friendly Surprise, and its consequences
— preposterous Journey undertaken in a preposterous Manner.
R. Clairville was returning homeward full of melancholy thoughts,
/
when a hidden rap on the shoulder awaked him from his resverie, and discovered, to his aftonilhed view, his old friend amy and. ‘ Now, Mr. Clairville, * Said he, ‘ was I right in my conjedures; and ‘ may we become friends again? I wish I ‘ could be as powerful a one to you now,
* as I could have been at the time when ‘ last we parted. If there be any service,
‘ however, that I can render you, I will
‘ not fail to exert my utmost abilities to
‘ perform it.’ Charles returned him
thanks, aftured him he was convinced
of
  167
t)f his error with regard to him, and explained his present circumstances' ',
then went to a tavern with his, friend, where, while they drank their wine, Mr. Amyand told him, that he had been obliged to Sell an ellate, already much encumbered, to pay his own debts, and those of his diftreited relations, and
was now living on the principal of the remaining sum. ‘ I have thoughts, there
* ’ said he, ‘ of going abroad in ‘ some genteel station, •, would have ‘ you feriolifly think of doing the same.
* Your spirit, which here will occasion
* you, as it were, to hide yourfeif from ^ your fortune, as things are now litu ‘ ated, will there, on the contrary, throw ‘ you in the way of it, and you may yet ‘ once again rise superior to those who
A
'now deride you
Many
l68
Many arguments of this kind he used, to persuade Clairville into the Scheme of goinglabroad, who promised to consider on it; but, indeed, he was not very warm in the cause; because his mind had long been brooding over a Scheme of firll trying his intnds at home: his old acquaintance furnishing him with a few
A
pieces, he now began to grow Hill more warm in this Scheme. To Say the truth,
miss Selby had run in his head strangely, ever Since his breaking with the marchion ess, and he now resolved, once more, to go down to his uncle, and, like the prodigal returned, confess his errors, and to ask at once forgiveness and asiftance; meanwhile he was not without hope, (as he had heard that the intended match with
Colville was broken off, he might still Stand Some chance of gaining his Emily; but this was only a distant furmile*
It
  169
It was ever the fault of our hero to be
too precipitate; and perhaps he never Showed it more than he did at the present juncture. vsithout consulting any
one, and, as it was fine weather, without
r
taking any other convenience than his
horse, he fet out for **** Place, which was about two days journey. But, on the evening of the firll day, his expedition was Hopped; for he was attacked by no less than three footpads, who
knocked him off his horse; having no arms, nor means of resiftance, they deprived him not only of his watch and thoney, together with his hat and wig, but also took away his beast from him; leaving him on the ground in a shower of
rain, which, perhaps, might be the chief means of his revival. When he came to himself, he found he was much bruised, but had no wounds that bled greatly, or
vol. I.
I
de
170
demanded immediate application : So, tying his handkerchief round his head, he proceeded as well as he could, being on a barren heath, and about four miles dis tant from any house. At lad:, however,,
he arrived ar the village called C
in
calling at an inn
the main road; and, there, told his Ilory to the masler of the
house'; who Said, he'really had no accommodation for him; and that as to Such piteous tales as he told, he heard them every day. — ‘ Indeed, ’ Says he, ‘ is ‘ you go to the White Lion down the
‘ street, it is probable they may have no
‘ more sense than to lifien to yon; but, ‘ every man in his vocation — Coming —
‘ Coming — Coming, Sir
\
To the White Lion, accordingly, he went, where the people were civil enough • to take the lory upon his credit, and to

\
accom

17i
\ \
accommodate him with a Supper, and a
bed : but the next morning he had another whole day before him to travel in the same disagreeable manner •, cheating up his Spirits, however, with a cup of ale from his good-natured holl, who lent him
an old hat also, he Set forward again,
«
and, after many a weary Hep, arrived at night, much fatigued, in the neighbourhood of **** Place. On approaching the seat, however, he thought he saw strange alterations there: with a trembling
hand he knocked at the gate, and
inquiring if Mr. Selby were at home, was told that place no longer belonged • to him, or to any of his family; for that Mr. Selby was dead, the estate Sold, and miss Emilia gone no one knew whither.
4
He was thunderstruck at this news:
t
weary and fasang as he vas before, he
I 2
was

172
was now ready to saint, and fink down
'. • *
upon the earth; when a former tenant of his uncle’s chancing to come by, and inquiring what his bvisiness might be with M r. Selby, he told him, that he was his nephew. ‘ Good God 1’ Said he, ‘ this
t
‘ Mr. selby’s nephew !’ Surveying him; * and yet, certainly, it mult be he. Dear
‘ Sir, come home, and take Some little
/
‘ refreshment with me j fof you Seem to ‘ be faint.’ — ‘ Saint, indeed, ’ replied Charles; ‘ for I have walked near forty ‘ miles, and have not eat to day.’ 1 he good old man lifted up his hands and eyes, and invited him home, where he regaled him plentifully with homely fare, and told him all he knew of the family; which, however, amounted to little more than was mentioned by the porter at the gate, excepting one additional circumstance,
which was, that miss Emily Selby
had
  I 73
^,
had been left, after her uncle’s death, to
the guardianship of Sir John TA piece of news at which Charles Sighed deeply, on recolledllng the villainous cha ra<5ler which he had already heard of him.
It is easy to conceive, that the young gentleman had now little farther business here; he therefore prepared to be gone, with all possible expedition, his kind landlord Supplying him with money, which he promised to remit by the return of the post.
And thus ended an expedition \ ^’> h, if he had consulted his newfound friend, Mr. Amyand, he certainly would have had no occasion to embark in. Since that
0
gentleman could have infoimed him of
moult of the particulars' which he heard afterwards at Place.
I
3
C H .A P.
174 "
C H A P. XXIII
• »
• 'k
/ »
Mr. Clairville determines to
go
abroad — A Digrefiion, with Reflections on the Spouting Society, and the
/
Stage in general.
\
QJJ ALLY tired and chagrined,
/
our adventurer returned to London, and went once more in Search of his
friend *, but found he had left his lodg
%
ings, and was therefore a long time bu fled in Seeking him, in vain j when, calling at a coffeehouse which he Sometimes frequented, he was informed, that that gentleman had Sailed for Jamaica, unexpectedly, the very day of his return from
the country. He found himself now as badly Situated as ever, and began heartily to curse his own precipitate rafhness, especially when he found that Mr. Amy
and

  i75
and had been to inquire Spr him at his lodgings, and iest there a note, informing him of the hurry of his affairs, and
begging to see him •, but intimating his
fears that he was gone off, as he
%
neglected to leave word whither he betaken himself.
At this time our adventurer thought fit to offer himself at the playhouse;; which purpose he now frequented a
spouting club, where he got the name
of a genius, and went often to the Robin hood in the Butcher row, in order to acquire courage and graceftilness in delivery.
By the former of these Societies, however, he always found himself considerably the worse, as it obliged him to keep late hours, and neglect his busmefs of
writing j by which, alone, he could now
%
1 4 hope
r
i.
*•»

176
/

V'

hope to earn his Scanty pittance *, not to mention that, by means of Such wild
company as he there met with, he was as
1
often immersed in broils as ever he had ten amongst bucks of the firll head; these, indeed, were generally Such as
proved more dangerous to his person and reputation than those he had been engaged in with his St. james’s friends; in as much as the former lay in Scenes of
lower life, and were, generally Speaking, by far more obnoxious to the law than the latter.
Here he Saw kings and princes who
/ *
wore woollen caps, and Swayed pestles;
generals vv^ho exercised needles, patriots who dealt in law’, judges who killed sheep,
phiiosophers who took in pledges, and prime ministers who Sang ballads. Every one was great in his way •, each had a
darline;
m
«
  1^7'^
%
darlino; vanity, and that mult be flat
CD »
teretl, at the expense of
‘ Fortune, friends, and all the world
besided
It was very observable, that this fpou^d
Tv..
Society increased, in a furprizmg

< *
I /

proportion, while the celebrated Mr. H — t did them the favour to reside in their neighbourhood ^ who, by teaching,
grown gentlemen to dance, furnished them with many members, pretenders to. the stage, whom native aukwardhefs would. clse have excluded •, not, .indeed, that he
t
always fulfilled the promise which he made, of teaching them Address; but opinion was everything; if they thought So,, it was So, to them. Let the vulgar hiss, no matter : if they and their friends were Satisfied, it was, to be Sure; abundantly Sufficient. At the head of this
I 5 Society
178
Society was the Samous Mr. Pattern, taylor,
in
Ilreet. He was famous in
many parts; as Richard, Othello, Macbeth, c. and knew the ftage tread to a
hair'.' If any disputed it, he was ready
*
^i^prove it, by either of thole two gen
and celebrated ways, wagering or fighting: but let not the reader here imagine that the hero would descend to fifty cuffs, like the two princes in the Thebaid. No! sharps— — was the
I
word. — Any pointed weapon, from the
Single rapier down to the needle, and he
was your man. Being the Son of a French
fencing mafter, a refugee for his religion,
he had early learned the noble Science of
defence, and thought himself a match, at it, for any one. Fie was greatly re spedled in the Society (not a few of whom
were in his debt for clothes) and nobody
cared to affront him.
Next

179
Next to him, upon the list of fame, stood a perukemaker, neat and trim : he was
for all the love parts *, your Romeos, jas
\
and your whining Altamonts j and many a young simple female’s head has he turned, and ruined her morals, by hi scraps of plays, and borrowed tags of old rhyme.
Pierre, Tamerlane, Posthumus, Horatio, and the noble osman, were often
%
represented by one whose real worth, his genteel Station, and good fense, rendered
him justly beloved, and occasioned his friends to Sigh, when they beheld him
j *
thus exposing himself amongst night revellers. And often has the fair Cecilia
I
wiped, from her bright eye, the falling
tear, when Ihe found her company slight
• • ^
for that of these mad rioters.
V
A fiery youth, of very tolerable parts,
used
♦ft.

l80
used generally to be his compeer: ba jazet, and the cruel Gloucester, were by him not ill represented, all things conhdered, on this mimic stage.
Bobadils, Merciitios, Abel Druggers,
and Scrubs, Swarmed here by thousands and Ipeakers of mock tragedy, who even burlesqued the burlesque itself.
Our hero, whole fierce., ambitious soul was ever Swelling and aspiring, was, generally, the Lothario, the perseus, the Varanes, or the Alexander, of the piece : and in these Characters he was always Sure of universal applause. To say the truth, he was not without merit in thcse performances). and had that excuse for frer quenting the Society, which few of the rest could, with any justice, pretend to; namely, that he had not only an inclination,.
  ibt
nation to, but even Some chance of bein admitted as a performer in the theatres. Yet all this was, in effect, but exposing himself V since it was highly pofllble) for one who had Such a desire, to qualify himself (if, indeed, it were worth his while) by frequenting the playhouses themselves without ever having been present at meetings like this in their lives:; linee they are apt to learn here bad habits of
i
Speaking and acting, which it will be very difficult to dwell themselves fand
such as can by no. means be fupposed to: fit them either for the pulpit, the bar, or the stage.
After all, perhaps, it may appear, that the life of a player will prove far from being an eligible one, in many relpedls, in the course of a man’s journey thro’ the world 5 Since, not to mention the pp
pvolrium
i82
'frchrium call upon them by Some, they have many inconveniences, become the
I
Servants of 'every one, and enjoy but an unsettled Hate, at the best. And, with regard to principle, though nothing can be better designed than theatrical entertainments, under proper rellridlions, for the promotion of Virtue; yet, as things Hand at present, it is certain, that the
llage is but too justly Said, both in regard to the pieces thereon represented, and
the lives of the performers, to prove too
often a nursery of Vice.
/
CHAP,
  is?
CHAP. XXIV
T
t
Strictures on the Robin Hood Society;
■with an Account of Some of its members— — admitted there.
N the other Society, which Charles frequented, it mull be confelted,
though indeed its inftirution was greatly

abused, and deviated much from the ori
inteniion of the founders, some
gina
I
thing more useful was to be learned, if a person had really a mind to improve from what he Saw and heard.
First, As to argument, and the encouragement of Such inquiries as tend to enlighten the human mind, inthemidll of all the gross nonsense which a man might well expect to hear advanced in a mixed Society, like that, fubject to no re ftriction, with regard to the number and
quality
i8.;
4 THE HAPP ^ extravagant.
N
quality of its members; there was yet Something to be gathered from the arguments of the many ingenious men who still continued, occasionally, to teequent that Society.
Next to this, an unaffeded ease, grace and
energy in di6lion, and, above all, that boldness which is not only requisite
fn an orator, but, in Some measure, northeast ceitary to all who have dealings with the world, as also an habitude of regular and logical reasoning •, all these qualities might, in a great measure, be acquired'
here, by the industrious and attentive person.. ’ "
Yet, perhaps, of all the societies that ever were framed, there has Scarce been,
,
into which, more abuses have been
I
admitted j and when it, is Said, that it
may, be useful, it ought to be under
ftoodi
  185
«
flood only to men of Some genius, and
not to the common herd.' But here we
$
are to notice, that the profane use of religious fubje6ls, the chief grievance complained of, and which was, indeed, a crying one, was about to be abolished at the time of Mr. clairviile’s ad million, and has really declined there Since,
Certain it is, that had the youth im
* 4
proved the acquaintance he met with here, it might have been of great credit and real Support to him in future life; and many of them were Such as he would not have had occasion to be ashamed of at an assembly, a, drawing-room, or, which is more extraordinary, even in a church.
There were the judicious St -- -- -- -- -1,
and his brother. Since promoted to public employments •, the ingenious Dr..
B
186  .
B
r, the learned H
V
/
, the Spirited W
—, the polite r, the plain,
nervous S
•I’
t, the fluent E
n, and
many elegant Speakers from a more re ipedtable Society. The presence of these did honour to the assembly.
Many more, whose names it were tedious to enumerate, at this time, graced the Society with their presence, and mofl: of them were well known to our hero,
and very ambitious of his friendship; yet, how useful Soever Such acquisitions.
might be, he was far from endeavouring
/
to attain them, and would often have
been better pleased with obscurity, than
with the liighefl; difliinftions either here,
or even in a much more honourable
place. Not, as we have observed before,
that he wanted for a Spirit of ambition
or emulation: certainly he had his Share
of
THE HAPPY EXTRAYAGANT.
187
of that, if ever mortal had; but this was not his view in frequenting these meetings: it was, as we have before ob served, to fit himself for a Station in life which he proposed shortly to occupy.
The P
— ta mild, well-meaning man, with a good Share of sense, encouraged him to frequent the Society, and often held him up in a point of view which exceeded his deserts. He profelted to be his friend, and did not fail occasionally to prove himself so.
CHAP.

l88
CHAP. XXV
Charles becomes acquainted with Mr. Mackenzie — Is entertained by that Gentleman.
A
M O N G S T the numbers who frequented this mixed assembly, was
♦
one Mr. Mackenzie, a person of gr^at fortune, but invincible obstinacy. He had once been highly pleased by mrv clairville’s taking his part in a long oration he made upon government, which being on the contrary fide of the argument to the generally received popular opinion, he found himfdf highly disappointed of the expected applause, and a hiss was going round the room, when Charles suddenly began to chip •, and his friends, who were not a few, moult of them
Seconded the 'motion; after which, the
youth

  lo
youth got up, and, by a long and flou ndied Speech, turned the tide So much in
favour of that fide of the argument, that the North briton’s Second Speech on the
Subject was received with an universal appiause.
The Society was no Sooner broke up, than Mr. Mackenzie desired to Speak with our huro, and gave him a very prell ing invitation to his house.
Charles received it with politeness, but thought of nothing less than of accepting it till chancing, one day, to step
into the somerset coffeehouse (for he Hill, with difficulty, maintained a decent appearance) the Scotch orator met him thcrcj End insisted on his goin^ home with him to dinner. He was a rich ci
y
tizen, and kept a very elegant. house.
H is

190

His daughter, a lady about nineteen, did
the honours of the table; and, to say
the truth. Seemed not a little delighted
with her guell’s company, and conversation
: her looks told him So; and he
had lived long enough to be acquainted
with the language of the eyes. As to the gentleman himself, he was So pleased
with his company, that he gave him a
general invitation, and, in the common
terms of exprefilon, desired him to command
his house., and make it his own.
• ^
This invitation was greatly strengthened by an ^ unaccountable Something without a name, which was very like vanity, and which gave our adventurer a twitch by the heart, and urged him to
V
resort to a house V here the mailer of it, and, above all, his daughter, Seemed Ib highly to honour and approve him. For
nothing

nothing is more true, than what a late poet has Said; that.
j!.
‘ Of all the trophies that vain mortals
• »
‘ boafi,
‘ The first and faired: in a young man’s ‘ eye
‘ Is woman’s captive heart
And this is true, even tho’ the person in question does not any ways affect the female who pays this tribute to his vanity.
Mr. Clairville having experienced this
emotion, was resolved to visit this friendly
\
mansion j and never could he have taken
a more eligible step. mackenzie’s friend -
¥
ship vras worth keeping; but it was not every one that could preserve it. He
vv^as a learned man, but he was, also, a
humonrift. Bred in a college (and that a
Scottifti one), and trained up in all the
pomp
V
192

pomp, as it were, of pedantry, he was not used to be con trad i<5led, and could but ill brook opposition. He Succeeded, indeed, to a business j but he had So little
to do with it himself, being a wholesale trade, that he by no means Suffered it to interrupt or incommode him. He was
one of those gentlemen who pique themselves
upon acting in direct opposition to
the generally received maxims of man
%
and judged every rneasure, as to its propriety, by questioning only hov/ far it was out of the common road.
If Mr. Clairville had gone on as he began, to flatter him in his foibles, he
might, indeed, have had much to hope
4
for from this gentleman; but that he
knew better hov*' to gain a friend, than to
keep one, was proved. Sufficiently, in the
Sequel of this adventure. This gentleman
  j93
man had written a piece for the Ilagc which he called Meleager, and intending, to present it to the manager for his opinion, Showed it first to Mr. Clairviile, in order to have his opinion of it. He demanded Some days to consider of the merits of the piece, and Set himself in
earnest to examine it, after he had first disparched some necessary business of his
own.
Meanwhile it is to be noted, that this their new guest had become as one of the family, and neither the father, nor his daughter, were easy a minute but when
he was in company. He ate, drank, and converted •, in iliort, he did everything
but lodge at Mr. mackenzie’s,
• - • *
r
who observed and encouraged the growing intirnacy between him and his daugli
X’
ter, while the youngifabella Seemed happy.
VOL. 1.
K
on
^9
294
on her part, in having the opinion of
her parent go hand in hand with his desires: : the old gentleman used often
V
to Say, with a smile, ‘ I believe Mr. Clair
* and my daughter Isabel will make
1
‘ a match of it; and, if they do. i’ll ‘ take care to make it worth the young
* fellow’s while
Thus encouraged, there was nothing
*
that the orator might not here have accomplished, had he pursued his plan with a proper degree of prudence; but, as the author had before observed to
I
«
. him, Non omnia pojfumus omnes \ and ce
\
friendihip was not his talent.
C H A P.
/
  1^5
CHAP. XXVI
Bad effeds of a good Judgement Charles breaks off his Acquaintance with Mackenzie.
A
F T E R long deliberation, our hero, having turned and twined the tragedy, finding he could make nothing of
$
it but a mass of pedantry and fustian, returned it to the author with an air of great gravity. ‘
Well
‘ how do you like my play ?’ — ‘ Really, * Sir, ’ answered Charles, ‘ I think many ‘ things in it want amendment: it may ‘ be made paffable.’ — ‘ Paffable!’ said
I
Mackenzie, so loudly that the hall e choed the word, ‘ and passable !’ was repeated, with a note of admiration, from every corner of the building. Now this word had escaped our hero in his hurry,
who continued still to repeat that
given lo much offcacje, K 2 ‘ Pass
word that had
/
196
f
‘ Passable!! is — I mean, — not but
‘ that the piece might do with alter * ations.’ — I Shall be infinitely obliged
‘ to you to make them, ’ rejoined he, in a Serious tone. — 'Charles began now to think he had gone too far; but there was no receding : the author infilled that
he Should Sit down with him, and canvas it over. Called upon thus to defend his
opinion, he resumed his former manner, and did it boldly, pointing out some particular pafitages which were moil glaringly improper, and found some fault with the general conduct of the piece. — This entirely disobliged his entertainer, who began to call his judgement greatly in question, and gave him some advice with an
V
air so supercilious, as plainly showed that
it was meant in contempt. Some spirited
replies, from our hero, drew on more
words; and though the latter at last recollected

  197
\
collected himseir So much, as not to proceed too far in Mr. mackenzie’s own house, yet he had already done Sufficient to ruin himself in the opinion of his patron : and though this quarrel was Seemingly
made up, yet he Soon found thatit occasioned a coolness which, in the end, caused the old gentleman to be less frequent, by degrees, in his invitation, and,, at. last, to be denied in general, whenever Such a one should call.
This vras the manner in which our young adventurer loll his friends, by a
want of caution j‘and often did he repent it. Adulation, indeed, is unbe
but there is a medium
\
which ought to be observed, in this cafe, for the Sake of one’s Self, one’s neighbour, and of a due regard even to common
coming a man;
propriety
K 3
CHAR
N
198  ,
CHAP. XXVII
/
Mr. Clairville applies to Mr. L
at
the old Theatre — Is referred to Mr.
G
■9^
G
Supposed mad at his
Lodgings.
U T now Mr. Clairville, as the winter advanced, began to think of
p««hfg~1ris piay house projet in execution. For this purpose he first consulted che Millain, a young man of good fortunes, but better temper who frequented the Disputing Club, how to proceed in the affair; since he had promised him an interest which might, in all probability,
introduce him at Drury-lane house. He,
accordingly, repaired thither, in great
*
ae^itatlon of mind, and enauired for Mr.
L
Mr. G
being then abroad
t
on his travels. Mr. L — —, accordingly,
ap
  i99'
\ ^
appeared; and, having learned his bu finess, told him, he was Sorry he mull trouble him to call again; for that Mr.
G -- -- *s brother heard [examined] all
new performers, in his absence, and, for that purpose, requested his attendance the next morning, about ten.
It is easy to conceive, that Mr. clair ville did not enjoy much repose that night, being greatly agitated, between hopes and fears, and natufalh^bcan impatient "difposition. He anticipated the time, and by half an hour pall nine attended at the playhouse, Mr. G -- -- ’s
brother soon appeared, and he passed through a formal examination; in the
course of which, Mr. G
G
mi
did
not discover a great deal of judgement;
and Clairville, whose general fault was
ever too much frankness, could not help
K 4 hinting
200
hinting his opinions too freely; a step which, in all probability, would have oct

cafioned him to receive a flat denial at
i
once but, in consideration of the in,,
\
that recommended him, which was great, the lieutenant manager, pausing a while upon his merits, bade him, attend again. He did so, and went through a Second exannnation *, at which time,
Mr. G -- -- -- -- G — — aflced him, whkher
he had ever belonged to a strolling company To which, answering in the negative, he shook his head, and Said, he
was Sorry for that; but advised him, however, to Study certain Speeches, and to
t
return again, as Soon as he Should be per fe6t in them.
• Charles, in compliance with this advice, began to get by rote the Several Speeches pointed out by that gentleman;
and
9
  201
and', for the time of this study, he generally chose the night; which, together with the number of books and papers that he kept, and a habit which he had
acquired of talking to himself, at other times, occasioned the people, where he lodged, to believe that he was a little dis ordered in his mind.
%■
Full of these Suppositions, they used often to Hare upon him wildly; which, consequently, producing, in return, a look
of aftoniihment from him, they would
%
cry, ‘ Heaven deliver us, how wild Mr.
‘ Clairville looks to day!*
A young maidservant, in particular, used always to declare, that She was afraid to go near that gentleman with the
fitidying countenance., he fixed his eyes always So attentively upon her; and: then; if he caught hold of her hand, he held
K 5
It
\
202
it as if he never would let it go again : and these her terrors 1 ailed till, having sat up for him one night alone, he behaved so gently to her, that Ihe was no more afraid of him.
Our adventurer, indeed, was not ablb lutely mad., but he was often so oppressed with cares, and so tortured with vexation, that the senses he had, only served to make him feel his pain the more acutely; and, perhaps, he might as well have been Shut up in Bedlam, as to have suffered
p •
what he did, while the decay of his fortunes, like a suppurating wound, would never suffer him to enjoy a moment’s peace: and nothing, that he saw or pof felted, could really afford him an hour of rational felicity.
chap.
THE HAPPY extravagi^nt. 203
CHAP. XXVIII
A curious Conference with Mr. G
G
Scheme.
Charles drops his playhouse
XT
XT
G
G
Mr. Clairville waited on Mr
and before him repeated
the Soliloquies, c. which he had been advised to learn; when that gentleman, with a very Solemn air, pronounced
it to be ‘ Pretty well! tolerable enough, ® considering f and then alked him if he had ever practised } ‘ If you mean
‘ these Speeches, ’ returned the youth, ‘ I ‘ have practised them Several times.’ ‘ I ‘ mean, * said the locum tenens, ‘ have you ‘ ever prafhfed attitudesf — ‘ Never, ’ replied Charles. — ‘ No! I am Surprised ^ you have not: that is a study abfo^
i
‘ lutely
204
/
‘ lately necessary, ’ Said the other. Mr. Clairville modefuy replied, that he had never imagined So; but always thought that the parts a man played ought naturally to bring the action and attitudes, as consequences, along with them; which, if not So conceived, no course of Practice could ever instruct; him in.
ex
tice coma ever initruct mm in. —
* Then you thought wrong, ’ cried his aminer, hastily; ‘ for I do afiert, and will ‘ maintain, that no man can ever arrive
‘ at proper action, on the Stage, nay, I ‘ might even say in company, who does
‘ not PRACTICE, and that too before a
‘ glass, whatever may be Said of Nature ‘ and such iike Huff. I tell you, young ‘ gentleman. Nature has little Share in ‘ the composition of a player j he is all ‘ art and on art alone he must depend
‘ for a livelihood
Much

4
05
Much conversation of this Sort passed,, which Mr. Clairville had the least
share, *, the end it was concluded, that he should return home to frafiife attitudes., and study Some other things equally necessary for a player; and, within a month, to come to the houle, and attend rehearsals.
It is easy to conceive, that one of our hero’s Sanguine difposition did not relish these delays, and especially when he was
given to sunderland that he could not
possibly make his appearance that season,,
\
than if he chose to perform at any of the players benefits, for his own
diversion, and in order to try how he should be received by the town.
But he was now heartily lick of this Scheme; and, resolving to lay aside
all
{ 2o6  ,
II thoughts of 3. profession, the first entrance into which was ib difficult, and
its chief profeltors So whimsical j he returned home, fully determined to visit—
— —, his coadjutor, any more. In con
neither Mr. L
Mr
G
sequence of this disappointment, new schemes Succeeded, and new plans were adopted, by this extravagant adventurer, as will be Seen, in the Succeeding,
chapters.
C H A P.
C »
V
/
happy EXTRAVAGANT
/
CHAP. XXIX
%
Mr. Clairville fitted olit for the East Indies — Meets a good Friend, who prevents him from going,
H E next plan that our hero adopt ed, and which was also proposed by this Mr. Millain, was that of enter ing himself as a cadet in the East-india company’s Service. Nothing could be more agreeable to his romantic turn; he eagerly embraced the proposal: Mr. mil lain undertook to provide him with northeast
celtaries for the voyage, and the India
\
company themselves always pay the passage of the cadets they send out.
This Millain was, indeed,, a true friend to him, and was; bent on doing him Service; but either a strange fatality, or his
own imprudence, generally interposed,
when
20 8
the happy 'extravagant.
•
when any great good offered itself to him
and dashed it from his grasp: Though,
on the contrary, it mull be owned also
5
that when he was at the lowed: ebb. Providence
was always graciously pleased, by
unexpcdled means, to raise him, and restore
to him, when he lead: expected it
the glad proipect of Smiling hope.
While this affair was in agitation, he
met with Will. one of his old
companions
Will, was what is gene
rally called an honeji or good fellow, and
was
lad to see him; and the
thoughtless Clairville,. in mere openness
of heart, communicated to him all his
Scheme, together with the affidance he
expeffed, not concealing even the quarter
whence it came Trom. Will, was.
like ail people in the like cafe, ‘ ex
■ glad to hear of his good luck,,
‘ always

I
  log
‘ always Said he would do well, but they ‘ mull: have a bottle: ’ and, accordingly,
they went and drank together; when Will, likewise began to be very commu ' nicative of his circumstances, which he laid were ‘ very had. cur fed bad indeed !* Nay, So low was he reduced, that he was Undying of what friend he Should borrow Such a trifle as three guineas, Charles declared, he really had not So much about him; but, if he would meet him that
house, he
evening, ^ believed he could oblige him So far. Will.
came pun6lually to his appointment, and our Extravagant made free to procure the money, 'on Some pretence or other, from his friend Millain, on whose bounty he, in a manner, fubsiited. Will, was ‘ ex ‘ tremely sorry to be so troublesome
yet pocketed the cash with so cheerful
an
V.. f
210
an air as Showed that it had greatly contributed to banish Sorrow from his countenance. They did not part till late that night, and the relieved rake proniised t
call frequently at charles’s lodgings; nor
did he, in general, forget his word; with only this exception, that his memory:
was always shortest when his friend had
\
leaf: cash
« '

Cur adventurer now got recommended,. by_jvir. millain’s interest, to one of he

A.
d — i — rs of the East-india company, who procured him to be admitted as a cadet for the Settlement of Bengal; and he was to go out vrith the fleet that sailed
the next month. He received, in the mean time, upwards of eleven pounds, advanced from the company according to the usual custom, while Mr. Millain
got a friend to be bound for him, provided
  211.
4
vided him with deaths, and promised to present him with thirty pounds, to answer contingencies. This was a noble and dilinterefted piece of friendihip, had the person, on whom it was conferred, known how to esteem it, and use it properly. But here, as in many other in
%
his imprudence became at once his crime and his punishment
_ now vifitedjmlxdalryille more frequently than before. He Scarcely ever missed calling upon him morning and evening, and ‘ his circumstances grew ‘ worse and worse; nay, he had not fb ‘ much as a genteel fuit of clothes to ‘ appear in j and he mufl wait on Lord ‘ Racket on Wednesday— — should * do? — ‘ Why, go to Mr. millain’s ‘ taylor with me, * laid Charles, and he ‘ fhau credk yotn’ is^ but would not that
‘ be
212
‘ be intruding too far ‘ By no rheans,
‘ Millain and I are never out — So that bufiness was fettled. But then a guinea
or two for the pocket. ‘ One would ‘ not jchuse to be well drelfed without ‘ money — * Oh! here are a couple of ‘ pieces at your Service.’ And thus he went on, fleecing the unthinking prodigal, till, at last, he put it out of his power to Serve either himself or others any'longer.
Mofl: unfortunately, just: at the time
that Mr. Millain, who was going a little way into the country, put into charles’s hand a bank note for thirty pounds, after having consigned his chelts of things,
c. to his 6wn proper care, left the Ship ftiould Sail without him, at that very time Will, wanted about twenty pounds upon
an emergency
'
He had Lord racket’s
%
‘ promise
  21$
* promise for as much, under his hand,
‘ but his lordihip would not be in town ‘ till next week, and, d — n it, these ‘ plaguy fellows would throw him into ‘ gaol for it.’ He willed he could borrow as much of a friend. ‘ Why, ’ Said Mr. Clairville (thoughat first he had been a little Startled at the fumj, ‘ I believe I ‘ could Supply you, if I were sure of the
‘ return of the money within these seven ‘ days; but then my credit and fortune ‘ depend on the pundluality of it.’ Will, looked Surprised, and protested, a thousand times, ‘ that he did not mean to ask ‘ him for it; nothing was farther from ‘ his thoughts; nay, he did not So uiuch ‘ as know that he was poiselfed of that ‘ Sum.’ yiiwprotejledbut, all thewhile, this was an arrant falsity; for he had taken particular pains to inform himself, by
means
/
214
means of a third perfpn, of the whole
#
affair; and had very little doubt, ’when
first; he began his tale, of being Supplied from this quarter. In short, the note was changed, and twenty pounds of it consigned to Will, notwithstanding all whole
protestations, it never came to the hands of the ownqr again. Nor was this all. Having given him an order upon Lord Racket (which the other took as full Security, though it was not really worth twenty pence) Charles fancying all Safe, began to indulge himself a little, and suffered Will, to lead him, once more, amongst a select company of his old companions, where he met Mr. Sharpley, who very cordially shook him by the hand, and declared that ‘ he was prodi ‘ gioufly glad to lee him; * which he proved, by winning about six guineas
of
/
  215
i"
of his money from him, at cards: so that, after all the expenses of the night were answered, Charles did not find above three guineas remaining out of his thirty pounds. But what then? Lord Racket was honourable, and his friend will. to be Sure, would not deceive him.
The next night he suffered himself to be lured again to the gaming table, where he lost his own money, and six guineas
more, which he borrowed, and gave his
note for, on demand, to Sir William
toaftwell

When the seven days were expired, he
went to Lord racket’s house, but his
lordihip was still in the country; and, what was more surprising, his friend did
not call upon him, as usual. There was a talk of the fhip’s sailing soon, and
Charles
2i6
Charles began to be uneasy. — As one misfortune Seldom comes alone, though his friend had forgot to call on him, Sir William did not forget to call for his money, producing his own note, payable on demand. In order to take this up, and to Save his credit in other little affairs, he was obliged to borrow money upon Some of his things, to the amount of ten pounds ten billings, when he loll the
remaining four pounds four billings, to
%
with his watch, the very night cn
Suing, in Covent Garden. The next morning, when he went to Seek for Will, he was informed, that he was juji stepped over to Ireland, to transad Some
bufiness for Mr. Sharpley; but would return in about a couple of months. At the same time he received notice, that day being Friday, that the East Indiaman, in which he was to embark (already at
Gravesend),
  Ilj
gravesend), would Sail oii^the Monday,
if the wind continued fair. This message
was accompanied by a card from Mr. Millain, then at the D -- r’s, desiring
to See and confer with him concerning matters relating to his voyage.
Such a complication of mischiefs allo
nilhed and confounded him. He had.
/
lost his .money, pledged part of his clothes, the rest were not Sufficient; and he could not bear to look Mr. Millain in the face. Most imprudently, therefore, he raised what money he could upon his yet remaining things, and made a journey to B -- -- -,
to Sec for Lord Racket. The peer he found, but he absolutely refused
to liquidate the claim •, and, in the
mean time, not only the Ship he should
have gone in, but all the Berigal fleet
sailed j and Mr. Millain, though himself
bound.
vol. I.
L
2i8
N
bound, in honour, to discharge the Security of the bond given for our hero, of
whom, by this time, the reader may be imagined to entertain a very Itrange opinion.
CHAP.
/

219
CHAP. XXX
Charles prepares to go abroad in earnest
Reflections on happiness.
H A R L E S was in no hurry to
leave B
till he found that
Mr. Millain had again left London, and was gone to reside, for some months,
with his friends at Wincheller, and was also afilired that the bond he had
given to the company had been taken
up, and could not appear against him.
In a few weeks time he found his finances again reduced to the lowest; ebb; and, besides being totally out of employment, he had no one to advise with, and was absolutely on the brink of despairj
when, perusing the papers one day, according to his usual custom, he read the
following advertisement.
J *'2
WANT
220
‘ W A N T E Di, to go abroad to Ja ‘ maica', a young man, of good cha
‘ rafter, who understands merchants ‘ accounts. See. Good encourage ‘ ment will be given. Inquire for ‘ A. B. at the Jamaica goffee house.’
N
Charles, though he knew not where to get money to fit himself out with necessaries, had yet a strong propensity to go, according to the directions, and inquire for the agent. Accordingly, he did So. The agent Surveyed him, and
\
Seemed mightily pleased with his manner and behaviour. He ordered him to call again at a certain period, and, in the mean time, the advertisement was withheld.
When Mr. Clairville called to receive
his final answer, he laid before him the State
of
  221
of his affairs, who made no. Scruple of advancing him money to be laid out
in neceifaries; in which action, indeed, it is probable, he did not go beyond his commission.
The place, of his destination was Jamaica, and our adventurer, like all un happy people, promised himself much
felicity the moment he should turn his back upon his native land; the unfortunate, like the sick, being always fond of shifting place. But how often do they deceive themselves in their exped ations! while those cares which hovered round their couch at home, climb, abroad, the veffel’s prow, nor leave them in the boundless ocean.
Frail man! whose joys arq but the in fubftantial shade of real pleasure, is yet
L 3
making
222
\
making to himself real and permanent evils. He Seeks fatisfadlionv in riches, but he Seeks in vain : he courts pleasuie
in the midll of pomp and Splendour, but he finds her not. How often does he court Felicity, in various countries, and Seek for her through distant climes, yet
return empty from the searchif she lies not in his own bread:, he will ever do
So.
Let him wait her in the glow of
health 5 let him look for her in retirement and peace; let him attend her in the palling breeze, and enjoy her in the contemplation of Nature: then vrill he
find her; or her handmaid Content (hall Supply her place, and brighten every ob je6l around him. Thus, to sum up the whole argument, he who multiplies wants,
mud: be miserable: let us only sincerely
%
ourselves to be happy, and we shall certainly be So.
CHAP

  222
CHAP. XXXI
Charles embarks on board the f.agle Some Account of the Officers' and paltengers.
Hen all things were ready for sailing, our hero went aboard, with a light and easy heart, fancying every wind of heaven blowed only to waft him to his happiness.
His former pleasures were all now forgotten; nor did he even reflefl with the leaf!: unealinefs, as it is likely he would at another time have done, on the dependant ftafion he was going to occupy.
Indeed he found all things on board the Eagle as agreeable as could be ex pe(5led, the captain being a remarkably worthy and humane man, and all his officers
y
224
ficers being chosen accordingly. Captain
Wells had a chief mate of the name of Danvers, whose conversation vtas particularly agreeable, being a man who had travelled much, and read Still more, and who, to the manly and experienced Seaman, happily joined the Scholar and the gentleman.
There were other paltengers, besides
N
Mr. Clairville, on board, three gentlemen, and one lady j the latter of whom was equally remarkable for her beauty and her good fense, which charmed all who had the pleasure to converse with her j but, in particular, Ihe attracted the
notice of the captain, to whom the officers soon gave her for a lover.
I
But to return. Captain Wells, having
A
stopped at the Downs, as usual, for fresh
provisions, c. proceeded on his voyage,
and
  21^
and cleared the Land’^ End in the month of March. As Soon as they entered the Bay of biscay, our hero found himself extremely Sick for a few hours, and his
sickness was accompanied with a short de
/
in so much that it was not without dilhculty he was prevented from throwing himself into the sea. Some
called this an ill omen { and many wise sailors Ihook their heads, and Said, “they
believed the poor gentleman would never see England again.
33
sailing.
a,
After fomc days Smart Southerly wind brought on a most violent
storm, which was extremely terrible, and disagreeable to the paltengers; and, to say truthj the captain and officers were not without their fears for the ffiip; for the Eagle was old and leaky, and had made many voyages: however, they
laughed.
22$

laughed, as is customary, at the timidity of others, while they were taking every precaution to provide against the worst. Two days the gale had continued So strong, that they could Set none of the sails i on the third, as it appeared to abate, they were for Spreading the canvas again, when it returned, in less than half an hour, ufliered by a squall so Sudden and violent, as did them much damage. Two days more they lay at the mercy of the waves, the wind Hill equally violent, and contrary. During this time, the ship, Shut up below, looked like an
hospital, while the whistling of the wind, the roaring of the Sea, the rattling of the guns, and the noise of the chain pumps,
produced a moll dismal concert. Meanwhile the water in the hold appeared t gain upon them, and all were about to
give
 , 227
I “
give themselves over for lost *, when the gale unexpefledly abated, leaving behind, however, a rolling Sea.
The wind now changed fair, and continued So during the rest of the voyage; and Charles, after Seven weeks departure
from England, arrived Safe at Port Royal
in Jamaica, where we will leave him, to conclude, at once, this chapter, andrhe First Volume of our History.
END OF VOL. I.
N
Shortly will be publilh’d,
(intwo Volumes, Price 5 s. few^d)
T H E
M M
HOUSE;
OR, SEE
History of Mr. M O R T O N, and
miss BAMS TED.
Printed for F. and J. Noble
THE
HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT
O R,
memoirs
o F
CHARLES CLAIRVILLE, Es
In TWO VOLUMES
VOL. II
By the EDITOR of the WANDERER.
Quid deceat, quid non j — qu6 Virtus, quo ferat Error.
H O Rm
LONDON:
Printed for Francis Noble, at his Circulating
Library in Middle Row, Holborn;
AND
John Noble, at his Circulating Library in St. Mar
tin’s Court, near Leicefter square.
M DCC LX VIII
» --

THE
O N T E N
OF THE
SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP. I.
H AR LE S employed by Mr. barton— — of that gentleman’s Daughter — Some Reflections on
Love
page I
A 3
11
The CONTENTS.
CHAP. II
alicia’s ill timed Dissimulation, and its consequences — An Encounter at Midnight

9
CHAP. IIL
A Letter from Mr. Hartop — Interview with that Gentleman — Our Adven
turer’s Voyage to Martinico
15
CHAP. IV
«>
Strange Behaviour of M. Martelle His Clerk quits him, and Seeks a new
Employer
22
CHAP. V
miss Sidney rescued from Drowning Her Gratitude — A Wedding proposed martelle’s Divorce, and intended
Journey to France.
27

The CONTENT S.
m
CHAP. VI
A terrible Catallrophe — Our Hero loses his Friends — The Fate of an English
Knight
33
CHAP. VII
Charles proceeds on his Voyage to England — His Reflections — Arrival in the
Channel
40
CHAP. Vlir.
An Accident — Charles arrives in London — Meets with an old Acquaintance
Is employed by Mr. Gainfby
45
CHAP. IX
Charles grows remifs ^a bale Scheme
A Conference with Mr. Gainsby
Its Confeouences
53
A z
0
IV
The CONTENTS.
CHAP. X
Mr
Situation — 1 wo extraordinary Letters
He Sets out for Bath
62
CHAP. XI
charasler of Mr.
Levingfton — A Description
of Bath — A Group of Figures

71
CHAP. Xil.
hiscory of Lady Julia — Mr. Leving
lion’s Amour.

75
CHAP. XIIL
• S
selesl Observations — Continuation of the
/
Julia — Mr. Levina; -
o
flon goes abroad
83
CHAP. XIV
N
Charafler of Morton — His fraudulent
Proceedings — A mt; ch Spoiled
91
The CONTENTS.
V
CHAP. XV
Mr. clairville’s Arrival at T Adventure at an Inn
CHAP. XVI
. The History of a Strolling Player
CHAP. XVII
CHAP. XVIII
95
99
Truelock makes his Appearance — Per' fuades his Friend to join him III
A Country Play — The Performers disconcerted
bv an Accident
117
CHAP. XIX
The Force of friendhiip — A Journey to
London
12 I
CHAP. XX Ch ARLES arrives in London
Mrs.
harley’s K indness — Some Reflections
on Gratitude
125
VI
The CONTENTS.
CHAP. XXL
The Lovers Meeting — Mr. Truelogk
Sent for to London
130
CHAP. XXII
Miss Emilia Selby begins to relate her
Hiftoiy
136
CHAP. XXIII
Miss selby’s History continued
143
CHAP. XXIV
Farther Continuation of Miss selby’s
History
148
CHAP. XXV
Miss Selby concludes her History i5y
CHAP. XXVI
A Rencounter — Its Consequences— —
Journey to France,
174
The CONTENT S.

Vll
CHAP. xxvit.
Charles arrives at Paris — Remarkable
1
Story of a French Gentleman. 179
CHAP. XXVIII
<
Mr. Clairville meets with the marchio ness again — General Observations on
the French.
189
CHAP. XXIX
Our hero’s Entertainment in France
»,
A Conversation with the Marchioness
de
^93
CHAP. XXX
The marchionefs’s Revenge, and its Consequences

An Instance of English
Courage and Generosity
CHAP. XXXI
The Sequel of the Duel
204
ia
« • •
Vlll
The CONTENTS.
CHAP. XXXII
Charles returns to England — true lock married — colville’s courtqiip
0
renewed — Some Reflections on Expectation

219
CHAP. XXXIII
Mr. clairville’s Wedding and happy Estate— — 224

THE

0000 0
000 eooo000000000000eooo OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOO COOO OOOO OOOO COOO OOOO COOO
^ r 'I y
<( # >
o >
i
i
>
>
<%
o
co

o
o
o
<»
o
o
COOO COOO OOOO OOOO OOOO COOO OOOO OOOO 0«00 COOO OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOO OCOO OOOO oooa OOOO
THE
HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT:
f
OR,
M E M O I R S
O F
f
Charles Clairville, esq;
c^c^c$oc$ocjgoc^cj^3^c|oc^
CHAP. I.
♦
Charles employed by Mr. Barton Description of that gentleman’s Daughter — Some Reflections on Love.
N proportion as the veflfel receded from the English shores, our adventurer’s regard for hig
native country Seemed to return •, and when he landed in Jamaica, he began to look upon himself as an unfortunate exile,
I
VOL. II
B
doomed
2

V
doomed to waste the prime of his youth, a prey to misery, in a strange land.
He was Soon introduced to Mr. bar tonne, who gave him to understand that he was to be.his employer. This gentleman was about the age of fifty, of a very grave aspe6t and serious deportment. He was one whole Sole study had been to amass a vast fortune by commerce, the
‘ i
whole of which he intended to bellow on
>
an only daughter, in whom his chief happiness was placed. Her he arrayed in all the pride of Europe, and the riches of the western world : Ihe was handsome, of an agreeable temper, and extremely amorous. -- Charles had always been remarkable for attracting the eyes and engaging the hearts of the women, wherever
he came, which were drawn to him
by
t
C •
i
i.'’

3 '
by a kind of irresiflible impulse. The
9
young Alicia was an instance of this j Ilie
saw, and loved him, even before Ihe pos
✓
sibly could judge of his qualifications or the dispoiition of his mind. She took
« f
frequent opportunities of coming into the
counting house, merely for the pleasure
of Seeing and converling with him, and #
whenever his name was mentioned, her heartfelt a palpitation which lovers only can account for. Though Charles had indeed often, during his voyage, sighed in remembrance of his Emily, yet now he Seemed again to have forgotten her j and miss Barton began to appear doubly amiable in his eyes; first, for the regard which she showed to him, and. Secondly, on account of her personal charms, and the great wealth to which she was un
B 2
doubted
4

t
doubted heiress. He had often heard dories of such whose ruined fortunes had driven them abroad, having married the
daughters of rich merchants and planters, and returned with such wealth as
f
amazed all who before had known them. Naturally romantic, from these circum dances he was inclined to draw the moll agreeable, condusions in his own favour. Already did he fancy himself pos felfed of an immense fortune, and reclining on the lap of luxury; but, to do him justice, though wealth was what he principally aimed at, yet the person of Alicia would have been a very acceptable present to him, as fly really loved him, and poffelfed accomplishments that might
have warmed a colder heart than his,
* /.
which, as we have before observed, was
highly susceptible of the tender pafiions.
/
It

5
It has been very jullly Said by a celebrated writer, ‘ that Venus has ever had, ‘ in all ages and climates. Some particu ‘ lar favourites : * upon these She bellows that inexpressible Jomething^ which occasions them to charm the eyes, and captivate the hearts of all beholders. This gift is natural, it cannot be acquired :
wealth, wisdom, valour, and even beaur
1
ty’s self, (though highly grateful to the God of Love) are yet infufiicient to purchase it. But those whom the bountiful Power has deigned thus to diftinguilh, are the happiell of mortals \ their joys are extreme, as their feelings are exquisite
; — they are happy, because their de
\
are entirely social; they mull be blelted, because they arc the children of Nature herself, who Smiles to behold in
« f
B 3
them

them the altertors of her empire.
One
of this class was Mr. Clairville, whole temper was So amorous, and withal So ardent and lively, that he was often mistaken for a native of the warmer climes. Alicia, nursed beneath the burning zone,.
was no less a favourite of the Paphian queen j. but Europe claimed her birth, as might be Seen by her complexion, which was clear as alabaster, though her cheek
was highly fluhied with the crimsun dye of beauty.
Mr. Barton would not have enjoyed a moment’s peace, could he have entertained the lead fuspicion of an inclination in his daughter for the young European j but he reded in a Supine negligence as to this miatter, while the young couple, who had by this time been very explicit with
each

7
each other, were resolved to take the advantage of this dispofition in the old gentleman, to complete their wihics. The
\
amorous girl, Charles found yielding beyond his expectation; and to say the
I
ti uth, it is likely the present Ihe was about to make, would have been Set a higher value upon, if the giver had not showed herself So forward to dispose of if. As.
4
it was, had Charles but for a moment.
on his Emily, his own Iwm would bavg witnejited to him that he
a pleasure infinitely more when, in artless yourh, be firll disclosed to her a genuine ptsion, that was received, on her part, with a blushing mo dtlly, which heightened his ardour, at the same time that it preserved his esteem Had he thought on this, it is probable, he would have Sighed at th
B 4

e companici

B u t
8
But interest prevailed over gratitude, and ahfeni Emilia yielded to present Alicia. In fine, he abandoned himself to
the pleasing considerations of wealth and
0
grandeur, which, he fancied, already
\
Ipread their inviting charms before him, enjoying in imagination that which he was doomed never to poftefs in reality •, nor dreamed what a change of fortune waited him. *

*

>
» N.
CHAP

9
CHAP. II
>
alicia’s ill timed Dissimulation, and its
4
Consequences— — Encounter at Midnight.

IMPLE and artless as miss Barton might appear, yet it is certain that She concealed from Mr. Clairville a circlimllance which we now think it
is time our readers should be made ac
%
with. This was nothing less than that he had a rival. Love taught her to dissemble, and she feared, perhaps, to communicate what might raise jealousy or dillrult in the bread; of her lover.
One Hartop, the nephew of a rich planter, had endeavoured to inspire her with tender Sentiments for him, and die encouraged him merely because lie flat
B 5
tered
lo

tered her vanity. It was not wondersul, therefore, that he Should give way when Ciairville appeared. But the young planter was not long before he perceived, an alteration in his miftress’s conduct, in the course of his Stolen interviews with her,
and Set himself to work diligently to
0
Search out the cause. Had he lived in
%
the house, or even openly frequented it as a vihtor, he would, no doubt, have come immediately to the knowledge of the affair j but as things were circumstanced, he was obliged to be content / ^
with remaining for a while in the dark; and this was greatly injurious to his peace, as he really loved Alicia, and sought her with earned: and honourable addresses, such as nothing but a family difference could have prevented him from openly
avowing.

1 1
avowing. His prior pretensions might, otherwise well have Ilrengthened him against Mr. Clairville, while his pofleflionsj which were large, might have dazzled the eyes of one less fond of Splendour than miss Barton: but She was too much
blinded by her paition to attend to any
>
thing elsej and the youth Soon found himself Supplanted'by an unknown rival.
Our hero was, however, at last pitched on by Mr. Hartop, owing to the hints given him by a Servant wench, of the intimacy
. that fubiifted between them. « from that moment, he resolved to have, if possible, ocular demonstration of the.
truth of this Suggestion, and accordingly
/
applied to the Servant for more Special intelligence. He succeeded in his. northeast gociation, and got information of the
very

12
THE haprv extravagant.
very hour in which his rival was to be
I
admitted on their next meeting, as he still continued his visits. It was on one of the fine ftarlight evenings So common in the warm climates, that young har top was condudled through the garden gate, where he was witness to an amorous conversation that pafifed between Charles and his Alicia, in a green arbour, where vows of love and constancy were mutually given and received. While they were tenderly embracing each other, Mr. Hartop coming forwards, with eager curiosity to Survey what was hateful to his eyes. Humbled over a Hone, and by that accident discovered himself to his rival, who, perceiving that his adversary’s Sword was in his hand, drew a hanger from his bosom. Thus armed, he rushed upon
I
him, and Suddenly stooping beneath his
point,

13
point, lodged it in his breast, himself receiving only a slight wound on the ihoul der. Hartop fell, and Alicia fainted a way. Meanwhile the Servant alarmed the family, and Mr. Barton coming thither with attendants, obliged her to confess the whole truth of the matter. He mofl:
1
Sharply upbraided Charles, who, instead of endeavouring to escape, had been all the time bulled in endeavouring to recover his mistress, and now Suffered himself to be Secured without making any
V
manner of refillance, while She was delivered to the care of her women.
Mr. Hartop, in the mean time, was sent home, and all proper care taken' of
him, and his antagonist detained till the issue of the affair Should be known, and the death or recovery of his rival ascertained by the Surgeons who attended him.
Thus
14

%
Thus were all the fond hopes of our hero blalled by one misadventure, while, inllead of the enjoyment of wealth and beauty, which he had imagined to be just within his grasp, he found himself
obnoxious to the charge of murder, deserted by the few acquaintance he had made in the island, and liable to be tried for his life. He now again refiecfted with a ligh on his native country, and the pleasures he had there experienced; and the remembrance of past delights served but to enhance his present misery.
CHAP.
V

15
CHAP. III
A Letter from Mr. Hartop — Interview
with that Gentleman — our adventurer’s
/
Voyage to Martinico.
A
FTER Some time, however, Mr, Hartop recovered, and his rival received his discharge, together vrith the following letter.
‘SIR,
‘ I am under some concern that it has ‘ not yet been in my power to bring the ‘ affair between us to some sort of eciair « ciffement. I have been cautious, how ‘ ever, while yet the event was dubious, ‘ to do everything that might contri ‘ bute to prevent any mischief that might
‘ happen to you on my account. You
\
‘ know my prior pretensions to the lady :
f you
i6

‘ you know what an injury I have receiv ‘ ed. — If you will meet me at a proper ‘ time and place to settle these matters,
i
'I Shall be glad to attend you The back
‘ of Mr. S'
— — ’s plantation, at six to ‘ morrow morning I have pitched on for ‘ this purpose then and there you may ‘ see your rival,
‘ Hartop.’
In answer to this letter, which had all the appearance of a challenge, Charles sent a note importing that he would meet him at the time and place appointed, yet rather with a view of Settling the affair amicably, than of concluding it with another Scene of blood. Meanwhile, Mr. Barton Sent him back his articles, inclosed in a reproachful letter, advising him, in a Sarcaltic manner, tp return from whence
he
** V
; N -- V

17
he came, and, if possible, put into fotee of the ports of Ireland, there to complete himself in the science of fortune hunting, in the praflice of which he had hitherto proved so unsuccessful.
He was, however, obliged by contrast to pay the expenses of Mr. clair villc’s passage to England, in cafe of his dismiffion within a certain limited time; but as there was a Ship ready to sail for the French Hand of Martinico, our adventurer was willing to Save that charge to his employer, and resolved to use all his endeavours to get recommended thither : for though he had not any delirc
of Haying in Jamaica after what had hap
\
yet, having come abroad with a design of bettering his circumstances, he had no inclination to return without his
errand.
/*
is

errand. Martinica he had heard named' as a flourishing Settlement, and Seemed bent on trying his fortune there, if Such a thing were pra<5licable.
Both the rivals met, and after much conversation palling concerning the occasion of their difference, the West indian Suffered himself to be appeased by the remonilrances of Charles, and his resolution
of quitting the island, in which he
determined to Support and aftift him, and
A
Mr. Clairville got recommended by his means to a French merchant in Martinico.

Having thus finished this matter, in the Settlement of which he took care not to be far behindhand with Hartcp irt Sentiments of honour and generosity, our adventurer left Jamaica, not without a
fense
THR HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
IQ
fense of his own unreasonable and romantic expectations, and, in all appearance,.
determined to pnrstie a condu<5t more
»
fettled and Heady in future, wherever it Should please Heaven to call his lot.
It was in the month of May that he Set forward on his voyage to Martinico, at which place he arrived in the usual time, without meeting with any adventure worth noting in this history, •, having sought
out the gentleman to whom his letters
were addressed, Soon procured a recommendation to one M. de Martelle, a French merchant (as he understood that language; to serve him in the capacity of
I
a clerk, and bade fair to become very useful to his employer.
By this time captain Wells arrived here with the Eagle, in which Charles had
firfb
t
20
HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
first sailed from England. That officer had before this married mils Hanway (the lady mentioned in our former volume) and found in her a most amiable consort, and agreeable companion. — This match
I
was, indeed, far.beyond her expectations, as the captain was very rich, descended from a noble family, and postelted all the virtues of a man, and all the accomplishments of a gentleman : yet slander’s Self could not arraign his choice. To deserving was the fair one whom he honoured with his hand \ in the gifts of Fortune alone
I
he found himself her Superior, and these
4
he had learned to despise.
r
With this happy couple, Mr. Danvers and many of the officers of the Eagle, Charles often Spent his leisure hours, and found among them an agreeable Society;
though.

21
though, to say the truth, the captain, at
first, had read him a Severe le6lure con
#
his Jamaica adventure.
Thus everything went on very Smoothly, and our hero, who was ever the votary of Hope, began to make himself very happy in a strange country.
%
t
i
r


w •
•» • *
r •*
t

\ «>* r
CHAP.



**- \
r <
✓*
22

CHAP. IV
A
Strange Behaviour of M. Martelle His Clerk quits him, and Seeks a new
A
Employer.
iwiit. i’j ' _ _
H E French merchant Seemed every day to be more and more pleased with his clerk, and he had great reason for Some time, to be Satisfied with the treatment he received from that gentleman, who really did not want for generosity. But he had one great failing, which was jealousy; and this disposition he indulged to such a height, that it quite eclipsed his good qualities, and caused him to be guilty of the moll absurd and desoerate actions.
An English fa(5lor, whole name was Sidney, and. who resided near his house leaving formerly had Some knowledge of
Mr

23
Mr. clairviile’s Sairiily, frequently visited him there. As Madame Marteile was very fond of the English nation, and curious in her inquiries concerning their customs
and manners, She Sometimes made one of the party. A treacherous domestic, Seeking to ingratiate himself with his mailer, took this opportunity of inspiring him with a jealousy of Mr. Sidney, intimating that that gentleman held a criminal correspondence with his wife, and that Charles was the pandar to their meetings.
False and groundless as this alperfion was, yet it had but too much weight with M. de Marteile, who began to call about for means to discover what, if it had been really true, must have proved to him a perpetual Source of uneasinefs.
those who Seek to find grounds whereon to build their suspicions, often make
them.

24

them, and Such was the case before us It was not long before the jealous husband Surprised his lady in an innocent tete ct iete conversation with Mr. Sidney, Charles having just stepped out about Some business. This was enough for the Frenchman, blinded as he was by prejudice. He
defied Mr. Sidney, and rushed upon him
*
in the most outrageous manner; — they
i
sought, and the Servants came in between and parted them. He then attempted to stab his wife •, but in this he was pre vented by Mr, Clairville, who was returned by this time, and was aftonilhed
beyond measure at the Scene he beheld.
¥
Mr. Sidney pitied the blind frenzy of the erring man, and finding all attempts to undeceive him vain, recommended the unhappy lady to the care of her attendants,
\
and withdrew to his own house, where he
penned
HE HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
25
penned a letter, every way calculated to convince Martelle of his error, and Sent it to him. — The answer it produced was a challenge, and the affair might have
r
had a fatal issue but that Martelle fell from his horse the day before his appointment was to have taken place, and bruised himself So much that it was impossible for him to keep his engagement.
As for his vvife, he kept her closely confined to her chamber, till he could take methods for a formal Separation from her, which he was resolved upon effe6l ing'; So blind had prejudice made him to his real happiness: and, this was the more extraordinary, as a jealous disposition is far from being the charafleriftic of the French, who, on the contrary, are generally
remarked forgiving their women the greatest liberty of any nation in Eu
VOL. II
C
rop
Ac ^
a6

rope •, but there is no rule without its exceptions


As Mr. Clairville was discharged on account of this ajffair, his friend Sidney having a vacancy for him in his compt ing house, took him on the same terms, and in the same capacity, as he had served M. de Martelle; though, while he called him his curk^, he treated him as his companion.
\
C HAP.

27
CHAP. V
r
miss Sidney rescued from Drowning' Her Gratitude— — Wedding proposed martelle’s Divorce, and intended Journey to France.
R. Sidney had a very handsome filter, who had often been solicited
in marriage by Some of the principal in
\
of the island; but in vain.
I
Charles had Some reason to think Ike regarded him with a favourable eye; but he remembered his late disappointment, and
V
did not care to play over the Second part of the farce at Martinico. He was, therefore, very reserved in his behaviour to the lady, and was far from entertain ^ng any thoughts of gaining her affections j but an accident gave him an op
C 2 portunity

28

portunity of So doing, which he neither
#
sought nor expefled.
Mr. Sidney, his Sister, and our hero, went together on board captain wells’s
ship one day, by his invitation : — return
1
ing in the evening, their boat Suddenly overset in a heavy Squall, when every one fiiifted for himself; but Charles,
If
being a good Swimmer, hastened to the altiftance of miss Sidney, Supported her, just Sinking, and conveyed her through the Swelling waves Safe to the Shore. Providentially, her brother Saved his life also; though another gentleman, who went on board with them, was drowned, together with one of the sailors who rowed them from the ship,,

This adion of charles’s was returned
\
by the' lady with the warmest acknow
4
lodgements
/

2’9
t'
ledgements of gratitude, in the midst of which Ihe let fall Some expressions So tender, as plainly betrayed her inclination to her deliverer. This circumllance did not escape unnoticed by Mr. Sidney, who, having Spoke to his filter sometime after concerning the matter, easily found that Ihe entertained apaflion for his’clerk, and generouqy offered him her hand in marriage, with a fortune of Seven thousand pounds.
The proposal was equally welcome to Charles, as it was unexpected by him; and he began again to make, in all appearance, Some approaches towards felicity. miss Eleonora Sidney was a fine woman, and one with whom he promised himself much happiness *, but his fate
i
had decreed it otherwise, and the curie
C 3
attending
30

attending upon broken vows Seemed still
to follow him, and to frultrate all his at
✓
tempts to raise his fortune by marriage.
The news was, however, soon spread over the Hand, where he had many rivals, both French and English, who all were bursting with Spite and envy, to see him preferred before the greatell of them. But captain Wells and' his spouse, Mr. Danvers, and the officers of the Eagle, came and congratulated him on the prospedl he had of rising in life •, and Mr.
t
Sidney felt a Secret pleasure in the hope he Jiad of Serving one whom he regarded as
a worthy man in distress
\
these things were passing in the Emgliffi gentleman’s family, Martelle di vcrced his vise, by which means he drew on himself the dislike of every one in ge
nerak
\

t
neral, and the resentment of her relations in particular: Mardnico grew disagreeable to him, and he resolved to retire to France 5 for which purpose he proposed to
\
embark on board a vessel then lying in the harbour, of which he was himself the owner, after having again endeavoured to take fatisfaflien, as he termed it, of his fupposed rival, in which he was prevented by the vigilance of Some, who knew him.
Madame de Martelle, who was much indisposed, removed a great w; ay up the country, for the benefit of her health as it had proved a very unwholesome season.
All things were now Settled, with regard to the intended wedding, and even
#
the day appointed j but Mr. Clairville, who
C 4
had
32

had met, with many Strange events, was
on the eve of one more extravagantly a
/
and dreadful withal, than any he had ever yet experienced; an event which at once frustrated his hopes, deprived him of his friends, and threw him
and the whole island into the utmost confusion.
— But the hand of Providence was
/
in it, and ail were obliged to Submit.
CHAP.
t *

33
C H A P. VI
>
A terrible Catastrophe— — Hero loses
1 —
his Friends — The Fate of an English Knight.
T was on the 13 th day of August, that the heavens were Seen for a long
while to wear a louring afped, big drops
✓
V
of rain at intervals descending; at last, about ten at night, a thick darkness veiled the Sky, and a moll dreadful hurricane began, with violent thunder and lightning. Till midnight the storm increased; the ethereal fires then no longer shot in quick flashes across the horrid gloom, but descended in burning showers upon
the trembling earth, that Spouted forth
(
cataradls of Subterraneous flames, to meet those which, darting from above, careered upon her Surface; while sickening and
L 5
convulsed
34

\
convulsed, she Ihook, as if the general diltolution of all things were at hand. Buildings, torn from ■ their foundations, llrewed the ground; deluges of fire flowed over the ruins; — nothing was Seen but horror, nothing heard but lamentation.
Our hero was that evening at Mr. sid jiey’s, where. Some friends being met together, they were So loud in fefbal mirth, that the noise of the storm was drowned, till a Sudden Ihaking was perceived, which in a moment di(lodged the timbers of ■ the house, letting in, at the Same time, such an enormous sheet of flame, as Itruck down Several of those present, and precluded at once all hopes of Safety or escape : but Charles, who remained unhurt, caught miss Sidney in his arms, and bore her, trembling, into theftreet,
followed by her brother, ' and such of the
guests

TH HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
35
guests as were in a condition to save their lives by flight; for now a second concussion overturned the building, and buried all within it beneath the ruins.
/
Fresh Scenes of horror now opened on
V
their view, and ruin Surrounded them,
»
wherever they directed their wandering Steps. The tender nature of the young lady Sunk, unable to Suftain the Shock; — often did She saint into her lover’s arms,
while they traversed this Scene of desola
A
tion, and often Ihed floods of tears for the fate of others, while she was herself
I
in imminent danger,
t
At lafl: her brother, contrary to her deliverer’s advice, insifted that they Should repair to the Ihipping for Safety : but the
Sea, alas! could afford them no asylum :
\
too late they found it So; for stepping
into
3^
into an open boat (already So full of pas ^ fengers, that Charles, who would other
I
wise have attended his millress, could not
be admitted) they were overset in his
light, before they reached the Ships. Motionless
awhile flood the youth, as by
«
the lightning’s blaze, he beheld his hopes overwhelmed by the raging ocean, into whose troubled abyss he would most certainly have plunged to follow them, had not the French governor, thenbusied in offices of humanity, withheld him.
N
It was now morning, and that pious man returning from his country house, really ffiewed himself the father and the friend of the people committed to his charge, and more justly deserving the ti
I
tie of GREAT, than those on whom his light and unthinking countrymen have often bellowed it.
Wheii

When the commotion of earth and the
elements at length had ceased, Mr. Clair
ville observed a crowd of people thered rourid the body of an elderly man,
I
gaily drelted. ‘ Behold here, ’ Said the governor, ‘ the only one, who (as I
‘ hope) deserved his fate, amongll all
/
‘ thole who have this last night untimely ‘ perished. He was an Englilli chevalier, ‘ who first: cheated a beautiful ward of ‘ his out of her fortune, and afterwards
‘ attempted to stain her honour. Injured
*
* and opprelted, Ihe came hither with a ‘ countrywoman of hers: — he arrived al ‘ so, sometime after, having fled from ‘ England, on account of his having ‘ killed a gentleman in a duel. Meeting
‘ by chance with the lady whom he had
/
« used so cruelly; on this very spot was
^ the miscreant about to force her, when
10 _________
a done
3^

‘ a Hone edifice, fell upon hirh, and bu ‘ ried him in the dreadful ruin. How the ‘ lady escaped, and whither Hie retired, ‘ is unknown; but this account we had
S
* from one of her attendants, who fup ‘ posed that she had escaped to the ship
‘ ping
Charles was greatly moved with this relation, and, full as his heart was with his own Sorrows, he made many inquiries after the English lady; but in vain.
M. de Martelle perished, together with
I
the unhappy crew of the veltel that he was embarked in; while his lady remained unhurt in the interior part of the ifle, where neither the hurricane nor the earthquake were so Severely felt'
r Martinico, now almost ruined, and threatened with the approach of a famine,
an

39
an unfortunate land, where his hopes had
4
been So unexpededly blasted, was no longer a place for our wanderer; therefore, as Soon as the first transports of his grief were over, he prevailed on captain Wells (whose ship had rode out the tem peffc) to take him back to England, in the capacity of his clerk, and departed with him from Martinico, in the latter end of Augiift, with a heavy heart.
/
CHAP.
40

C H A P. VII
Charles proceeds on his Voyage to
_ r
England — His reflections — Arri
%
val in the Channel.

VERY one on board strove to
make the voyage as agreeable to our
\
hero as possible, whom they considered (without regarding his present station) as a diftrefied gentleman, reduced to Seek his fortune through a troublesome world.
f
Mr. Danvers, in particular, sought to console and enliven him; and Mrs. Wells, with a tender concern, did all in her
power
to sooth his sorrows
/
»
length, he began to emerge from his grief, and, by degrees, resumed his natural gaiety : though his vivacity had been greatly damped by the melancholy
consideration of the event we have related
N

41
lated in the former chapter; reflection re
«
to him joy as a fading flower, an insubftantial bubble, for ever grasped at, never to be retained. Sometimes too he would reproach himself for having So Soon forgot the. vows he plighted to his Emily, and resolve on a course of virtue and constancy for the future : — but all this was no more than the philosophy of the present hour, at which (weak, fhort lighted mortals!) we are always very ready, when Adverlity lays his rude hands upon us, and forget them as readily when better days return. Charles, indeed, never entered on any new Station in life without forming Some of these resolutions, how, well he generally kept them, our history shows. He was, at this period, returning to England from an unsuccefsful expedition i new acquaintance and connexions
42

ions became neceltary, and a double Share of prudence was requihte for the conduct of his affairs; — thus circumstanced, we Shall see hereafter how he behaved.
But to return j — our adventurer was
now as eager to revisit his native Shores as
%
he had before been to quit them. ‘ I Shalt C be happy there, * Said he to himself, ‘ for as I Shall not any more run into ‘ those excesfes which have formerly been ‘ known to mark my character, and, con ‘ sequently, I Shall never again experience
* the miseries and inconveniences that at
* them; and I Shall have, besides,, ‘ the pleasure of Showing myself to the ‘ world an altered man, ’ Thus reasoned he i but he knew not his owm heart, nor perceived how much it longed for the repetition of those enjoyments in England,
to which it had So long been a Stranger j
\
nf

43
at least, if he fusped; ed this truth, he durll not alk himself the quellion.
The voyage was prosperous till they drey near the channel, when a contrary wind arose, which detained them For a long while, almost in the chops of it; upon which our adventurer, impatient of delay, prevailed with the captain to let him embark on board a Small fifhing boat, (which came to viht them from the well ern coads) though every one advised him againll it, as there was a high Sea, and an increasing gale.
This rash eagerness, however, was but an ill proof of his altered conduct;; he had not yet learned to conquer his inclinations, though he often fuitered by
his weakness in yielding to them.
\
'Captain
V
44
Captain Wells and Mr. Danvers did not part from him without rcludtance:
j
Before he went, they loaded him with marks of their friendship and esteem 5 nor did they fail, indeed, to repeat their endeavours of dissuading him from his purpose; but while he acknowledged their goodwill, he was deaf to their prudent counsel, and Set off about five in the
evening, in the gloomy month of No..
.. — ^
for Falmouth.
CHAP

5,
>•

45
CHAP. VIII
An Accident — Charles arrives in London
/• 1
Meets with an old Acquaintance Is employed by Mr. Gainiby.
r
-- *
ater they had been at Sea Several hours, they descried the port of Falmouth, by the light of the moon, then just emerging from behind a cloud; but as they drew near the shore, a Sudden gust of wind, arising from off the land,
overset the little vessel, and turned her keel upwards on the water. The fiftier
men were diowned; but Mr. Clairville
\
had the good fortune to Save his life by getting upon the boat’s bottom, where, with great difficulty, he maintained his seat, till the tide floated him on shore. He was taken up, half dead, by Some of, the inhabitants: all proper means, however.
• /
4&
THE HAPPY EXTRAVAGAMT
ever, were used for his recovery; but, when that was effected, he found, to his great mortification that, though he had saved his life, ^ yet he had loll all his cash and effe<5ls, (to the value of about a him dred pounds) five louis d’ors only excepted, and his watch, which remained in his breeches pocket. This was a severe Stroke to him, and he began heartily
I
to repent of his eagerness, which had led him to hazard at once himself and his Scanty fortune so unseasonably.
But, to make the best of a bad bargain, he took part of a poft chaife with a gentleman who was going to London, where he had hopes soon to get into some sort of employment. He arrived there without meeting with any accident, and presently provided himself with lodgings near Temple bar. All his wisnes
were
THE MAPPV extravagant.
47
\
were now again awakened, and, destitute as he was, he could not view without
s
a certain unaccountable pleasure, thole scenes of delight, in which he had little hopes of participating.
He intended to have waited the arrival of captain wells in London, and, laying his case before him, to have alked his
advice and alfiftance •, * but the first intelligence he heard of that gentleman was, that he lay dangerously ill at portsmouth and, about a fortnight after, he heard that he was dead, and that his difconso* late widow had retired into Hamplhire, among her relations, where she proposed Spending the remainder of her days.
This was a Sad hearing to Charles, who found himself on the eve of being reduced to absolute want, and had no resource
48
THE fhappy EXTRAVAGANT.
Source to fly to. He would gladly have entered into any merchant’s Service, but he could hear of no Such place; neither,
I
is one had offered itsels, could he have told where to procure the proper recommendations.
In this exigency, he resoived' to have recourse to his pen, and endeavour, by writing as an authorj to gain a present, though it Should prove but a slight Sub
Siftence. But he was diverted from this
/
resolution by meeting with an old friend.
Happening one night to go to the Robin hood, his old place of resort, as the company withdrew, he most unex pefledly encountered Mr. Millain. Surprised, he started' ' attempted to re tyre i but that gentleman, taking him by
N
the arm, and addressing him in the mild.
.
HARPY EXTRAVAGANT. 49
eft terms, exprelted his joy at Seeing his friend in health, and insifted that he Should accompany him home, and accordingly
they went together.
When
they were alone, Mr. Millain desired Charles to inform him concerning his present
circumstances.
When he had So
done, and related all that had passed since their last meeting, the other thus ad drefted him :
‘ You are fensible, Mr. Clairville, that ® I was used very ill in regard of your
‘ Eaft india affair; but I have not in ‘ vited you hither to reproach you on
‘ that account. You were partly led a ‘ stray by a volatile temper, and partly, ‘ as I find, deceived by a villain. — If you ‘ will model your conduift, therefore, ac ‘ cording to the rules which I Shall pre ‘ Scribe, all that has passed Shall not hin
vol. II
D
dr
50

I >
‘ der me from still farther befriending
»
‘ you. Even now, I think I have some
^ in my eye that may be worth ‘ your acceptance. You Shall, if you ‘ please, stay with me till I can recom ‘ mend you to it.’
4
I
It is easy to imagine that an offer So generous was accepted with gratitude by Mr. Clairville, who remained above a
month at his friend’s house i during which
time he was treated in the moh cordial manner by that gentleman, and afterwards introduced by him to one Mr: Gainlby, an eminent merchant in the city, in the capacity of his chief clerk.
This was a place of great trull, as much of the current cash palled daily
through his hands, though there were
many other clerks : Mr. Millain had
1
given Security for Charles, and recommended

5
mended him as a Sober and assiduous personv; it behoved him, therefore, to be doubly careful to maintain that char

rader. Accordingly, he went on So well,
for Some time, as highly to merit the
confidence and. esteem of his employer \ yet there were those in the house who disliked
him, for putting them under certain regulations and restrictions;; one Seyton bore him a Secret ill-will for having so unexpededly jumped into the of
%
of head clerk, a place he had always hoped to Succeed to. All these, like en vy in the fable, ‘ Saw his fuccess, and ‘ Sickened at the fight.’
t
But Charles now commenced an intimacy with one of the under clerks, whose name was Merril. This young man.
whose manners were Somewhat dillblute, engaged his new friend, by degrees, to
D 2
return
52

return to the Scenes of dissipation that he had formerly frequented; and on this foundation did his enemies resolve to build his ruin.
It was not long before an opportunity offered to injure him, and they embraced it eagerly •, how well they Succeeded will be Seen in the ensuing chapter.
C H A P.
. ■ V

53
CHAP. IX
Charles grows remiss
A base Scheme
A Conference with Mr. Gainsby Its consequences. ‘
A
BOUT this time great order arrived at Mr. gainibv’s, for goods
to be exported i and there were also Some long accounts to settle, which occasioned
all the clerks to work early and late •, and the chief condufl of the affair relied upon
Mr. Claitville : Mcrril, however, engaged him every evening in parties of
pleasure, and consequently, he dosed away the morning hours, which he oughc to have employed in his businefs, during this exigency. This did not pass unnoticed by they other clerks, and Seyton took care that it Should reach the ears of Mr. Gainfby.
D 3
But




54

But that was a trifle compared with
. ' •
what followed. In the very midst of all this hurry, Merril was one day missing, after a night’s pleasure; and Charles took great care to Screen the fault. He sent to every place that he could think on, to inquire after the youth, but in vain; no
tidings could be obtained of him till the next morning j when Seyton told him
/
privately, that his friend might be heard of at a particular pi ^ e, and named a cer
rain tavern about half a mile dillant; intimating, at the same time, that an ordinary mefsenger would Scarcely be able
\
to bring hinf back to his bufiness. Our hero tx>ok the hint, and wtnt himself to fetch him. — This was a moult unpardon
•w
able oversight, especially considering the
t
manner in which he left all things in the counting house i but it was another effect of his excessive wannth of temper.
When

55
When he arrived at the tavern, he was
informed that Merril had been there, but
%
was just stepped out, and would return in a few minutes. Above an hour he

waited there, and as he was going away, met his acquaintance entering, much dif
s
guifed in liquor : and, almost immediately after, a porter came, who told Charles that Mr. Gainfby himself desired to See

them both immediately at - — — ’s cof
i
1
fee*house. — Thither he went accordingly, but advised Merril to go home to bed, saying, that he V old make his excuse'to their employer; little imagine ing, at the same time, how much he
should himself stand in need of one there. He did not find Mr. Gainfby at the place
appointed; but, as it was about his time of coming, he was expe<5ted there. Our hero, nothing doubting the authenticity of the message, thought it his duty to attend.
D 4
which

56
which he did for two full hours: at lall,
perceiving no signs of that gentleman’s coming, he withdrew, as he naturally concluded that some particular bufinels had detained him 5 but the moment he
entered the compting*house, he was told that Mr. Gainfby desired to see him in the parlour.
prizing in this message j but Charles was aftohiflied beyond measure, when his employer, with a contracted brow and angry look, Ipoke to him, to the following ef fe6l:
There was nothing fur
‘ For sometime past, Mr. Clairville, ‘ you have not properly attended to my
* business;; have winked at it, as not
‘ being willing to notice Small faults in ‘ a person, whose condu6t I once had ‘ so much reason to approve: but your
5 behaviour today has been insufferable;
I mull

57
‘ I mull remind you, Sir, that mine is a ‘ place of trull j therefore if you do not. ‘ care more diligently to attend the con ‘ cerns of it, it were better you quitted if,
‘ and freed' at, once yourself and me ‘ from uneasiness. These four hours you.
* have been absent, in the very height of
‘ my buiiness, v.'ithouc giving me no ‘ tice *, and, as a farther proof of your ‘ extraordinary behaviour, here are your ‘ keys, ’ delivering them] ‘ that, cither ‘ through careleltness or desiga (which ‘ you bell know) you left behind you ex ‘ posed to every one. Are Such pro ‘ ceedings to be. born with? Would you ‘ fulfer them yourself, if you were in my
1
place
?
In answer to .this, Charles concisely repeated what we have above related. Mr. Gainfby heard him attentively j but, ind
5
Head
58  ,
Head of crediting the Story, he Smiled contemptuously, and thus replied :
‘ I was prepared for this tale the in ‘ vendon is, indeed, ingenious, and may ‘ be not amiss introduced, perhaps, in
V
‘ some novel, or idle romance. But
s
‘ where is Merrll V — ‘ At home, Sir, ve
i ‘ ry ill.’ — ‘ At the tavern, very drunk, I
«»
rather believe. I have ordered anotte^"
‘ person to take his place, and settle his ‘ perplexed accounts. As for you, I ‘ have been too tender of you, to trull ‘ your books to the infpeflion of any. b oile; but get them ready for me to look
and take care that they may appear fair and clear,
‘ for your own Sake and his that recom ‘ mended you. If all things Stand right
4
‘ there, I will overlook what is pall, but ‘ must infill on your using more diligence
‘ over in the morning.

for the future.’
By


59
By the whole tenor of this discourse,
✓
it was easy for our adventurer to perceive
that there was a plot laid against him •,
1
but he was far from fuspefting the most
V
villainous part of it. When his books were ordered for infpeiftion, he answered, with a free boldness, that he was always ready, on a proper notice, to Hate
his accounts, and balance them fairly.
He was much Surprised to find Mr.
\
Gainfby in doubt whether it were ‘ through
/
‘ carelejfnep or deftgnf that he had left
>
his keys •, but his aftonifbment was infinitely greater, when he found an actual • \
of two hundred guineas in the cash committed to his charge. Grief, anger,, and confusion vere visible, by turns, in ' hi? countenance, and he now considered himself as ruined past redemption. A thousand times did he curse his
V
fond
6o

fond credulity and fatal remidnefs in a matter of Such great concern, and too late perceived that he was fallen into the
Snare which his enemies had prepared for him.
The truth was, that Seyton and another of the clerks, who hated him, had
I
laid this plot to ruin him. To them he was obliged for his long waiting job, and the errand without end which had taken up all the morning; imprudent enough to leave his keys had given them such an opportunity of farther injuring him as they had not even expeded. They Seized it at once, and by that Itroke completed their malicious
while his being
proj
iedt.
As to Merril, there was no bccasion for any Schemes to destroy his reputation with Mr. Gainfbv; his own behaviour
4
'had

61
/
had Sufficiently done that; yet he Seemed greatly Surprised when he found another put in his place, though he had been for three days absent, and had left all things in the utmost confusion.
But So great was his levity of temper,, that he very little regretted his folly, while Charles seemed to be plunged in the depth of despair.

CHAP
6z

chap. X
Mr. clairville’s Conduil in a critical Situation — Two extraordinary Letters
Besets out for Bath.
X
^ H A R L E S was now quite at a
stand how to proceed. Had he a<5t cd prudently, he would most likely have gone to his recommender, delivered himself and his accounts together into his hands, and (after acquainting him with
the true Hate of the cafe, and his fus
/
he would have left it to that gentleman to Settle the manner of his future behaviour. But as one folly often begets another, folie, remembering how Mr. Millain had been used in the Ead india affair, could by no means brin himself to look him in the face, and tell him his present misfortune. One remarkable
or
/
  63
markable chara6leriftic of Charles ciair ville was, thinking very ill of his'ownhin
prudences when it was too late to amend
them; and this disposition but too of
^ %
caused him to endeavour at covering one fault by commiting another.
Having made out his accounts that very evening, and left them for Mr.
gainiby’s inspeftion, he went home, with a firm resoiution never more to return to the counting house; though he had presence of mind sufficient to conceal the confusion he was in from all the rest of the clerks.
&
Before he Ilept, he penned a letter to his employer, couched in the following terms:
‘SIR,
‘ You will easily find, no doubt, by ‘ looking over my accounts, that there is
'‘ a de
t


t
‘ a deficiency of two hundred and hen ‘ pounds in the cash committed to my ‘ charge I wish to Heaven I could as
^ easily discover the villain who has ruin ‘ ed my peace. I know there h a com ‘ bination to injure you and to undo me.
‘ For your own Sake, beware of these
‘ men. Me, it is probable, you' will ‘ never See again •, but I fuppose that ‘ will be equal to you, Since you have ‘ Security for five'times the Sum. [How ‘ Shall I look in my friend’s face, who is
‘ bound for me!] I am half dillraded, Vand fear this novel adventure., as you ‘ were pleased to term it, will end in a

fi
If you will touch my
‘ character as lightly as possible, till this
‘ affair Shall be Some way or other cleared
‘ up, it will be gratifying the gaol re
‘ quell that ever will, in all probability,
‘ be


6
5
‘ be made to you by, or in the behalf
‘ of.
The unfortunate
‘ Clairville.
Having finished this letter, he wrote
one to Mr. Millain, while in the same dillradted state of mind, expressing his
resolution of never feeing him against ran thus;
‘ Worthy Sir,
‘ What reparation can I make for the
?
‘ repeated injuries^that I have done you :
‘ I know of none, but to see your face ‘ no more, Since I am become, like Some
‘ evil omen, the fore runner of mischief
‘ to all who connect themselves with me.
< After this preface, I mull, with for
\
‘ inform you that you will be called ‘ on, as my bondsman, to answer for a
‘ deficiency
s
If
66
THE HAPPY. EXTRAVAGANT.
‘ deficiency of two hundred and ten ‘ pounds in Mr. gainfby’s calli, which ‘ my carelejfnefs.^ not my dijhonefiy., has ‘ occasioned— — villain, in my ab ‘ fence, took the opportunity of my hav
‘ irig left my keys behind me, to re
«
* that Sum — I am ruined, my cha ‘ radter is blasted;; 1 cannot, dare not ‘ stay to plead my own cause, either with
‘ you or Mr. Gainfby. — Forget me then, ‘ if poftible. Alas! that cannot be, since ‘ I have given you So much cause of re
‘ membrance. I would fly far off from
'
‘ you, and even from hiysels, if I could.
>
Misforfiine and misery attend me •,
‘ all is anguish and confusion within my ‘ breast, and I Scarcely know what I ‘ write. Forgive me, then, my generous
‘ benefactor, and let your resentment, (as ‘ I have often Seen it) give way to com
‘ passion j
  67
s
‘ paltion; for never was a greater object
‘ of pity, than at present is
%
‘ The unhappy
‘ Clairville.’
From the Ilyle of these letters, (particularly the last) it was easy for the persons to whom they were addressed, to
imagine the perturbation of his spirits
%
he wrote them. The next day, having discharged his lodging, he retired into Kent, where he w’as received and en tertained at the house of a gentleman farmer, (he Sought no better name) whose
Son he had formerly Seen in London. That young gentleman, after having experienced various turns of fortune, foreign to this history, was at last blessed with affluent circumftanees and a beautiful confort. He was with her, at this time, paying a visit to his father, who
received
68

received them both with all the tender
ness of parental affe6lion.
In this Society, charles’s melancholy
insensibly wore off •, and having partly
disclosed his circumffances to his Friend,
after a Short Stay there, he was by him
recommended to accompany one Mr.
Levingffon, a kentish gentleman, on his
tour to Bath, in quality of a companion
Gur adventurer gladly accepted this
opportunity at once to provide for his
fubliftence, tq gratify his desire of Seeing
the place, and, probably, to put him
again in fortune’s way.
All things being got in readiness for

his departure, his good-natured enfer
tainer took a kind farewell of his guest;;
the young gentleman, walking with
him, on his way towards Mr. Leving
fton’s, thus addressed him :
« Sir,
t'
'...

69
‘ Sir, I perceive, from Such parts of ‘ your Ibory as you were pleased to com ‘ municate to me, that you have been ‘ very unfortunate : I hope things will ‘ alter with you now. — Levingfton is a
‘ humourifl:; attend to his tempers, and
‘ you will find it your advantage : — he ‘ wants not either ter good fense of
‘ good nature, •, it mtill be con
‘ felted, his caprice often obscures the
/
‘ former, and Sometimes even renders the
V
‘ latter of no effect. I have known him ‘ long, and Speak to you as to a friend. ‘ But, above all things, avoid, as much ‘ as poitible, mingling in the Scenes of ‘ dissipation, which you will behold in ‘ the place whither you are going; for ‘ amongst them you will find every indi ‘ vidual preying upon each other, and
‘ altogether upon newcomers. If you
! hope
/

/
.y
70
‘ hope for felicity on earth, endeavour to
)
‘ unite Prudence with Virtue, and whilst ‘ you declaim against any particular foi ‘ ble, take care that you fall not into its
r
‘ contrary. Believe me, I have read the ‘ book of human nature, and speak from
t
‘ experience. May you follow the track,
‘ and may it lead you to happiness !’
%
Thus he discoursed, till they arrived at
Mr. levingfton’s; when Charles took
%
his leave, in a respectful manner, of the
s
farmer’s son. '
CHAP.
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - ■ ^

71
CHAP. XL Character of Mr. Levingllon
A Description
of Bath — A Group of Figures


R. Levingllon and our hero, after a pleasant journey, reached Bath, whither the former Said he went for the benefit of his health, though pleasure
was his real motive. The truth was, this gentleman, who was then in his fortieth year, and of a hale constitution, endeavoured to pafs on the world for a
grave Stoic, while he was as much an
✓
Epicurean in his heart as the gayefl of them all, and would at any time, much rather contemplate the beauties of a fine woman than those of the Harry heavens.
N
Charles, by observing the maxims of the farmer’s son of Kent, won much
upon
72
upon his patron, who often abated of his affected gravity before him, and trusted him as a friend. While he, on the other hand, was "far from abusing his confidence, and was sincerely bent on doing him every Service in his power.
r S
At Bath the two gentlemen were often witnesses to Scenes as ridiculous as ever
were exhibited to the public view. Who
could forbear laughing to see the aged Sir Humphry Dupe hobble hither with his wife, stnd return, thanking Heaven that the waters have made her pregnant, while every one but himself attributed the
merit to colonel L
who was his
young wife’s constant companion, and escorted her from place to place, while he remained at home, bending beneath a weight of age and impotence, which au the waters of the Bath could not cure?
Or
i

n
Or who would not smile to hear the learned Dr. Puzzle, who entertains patients at his own house, extolling the virtue of those waters, and artfully Sending down to Bath, to be Jimfhed. Such as \
he fears will die upon his hands
?
Battered beaux, commenced fortune hunters, bullies, become captains; harpers turned gentlemen; mantua makers, milleners, and antiquated mistresses, setting up for ladies of fasnion; rakes, turned methodists; quakers, turned freethinkers., and fine gentlemen, no thinkers ct ad. were chara<5lers which frequently exhibited themselves in this polite place and Charles, without fee or reward, beheld them every day.
But what most moved his aftoniih ment, was to observe, among this group
VOL. II
E
of
74
the happv extravagant.
of extraordinary figures, a young lady of great rank, fortune, and virtue, about to throw herself into the arms of One of the greateit Scoundrels on earth. We Shall here give a Short Sketch of her history, which, as it is an extraordinary one, perhaps, may be entertaining to the reader.
€ H A P.
t
t.

75
CHAP. XII
History of Lady Julia — Mr. Leving
fton’s Amour.
U L I A was the daughter of a person of quality : fly had an excellent
t
education, poitefled many fine accomplishments, and was thought by some to know too much for a female.
When she was about the age of Seventeen, an officer (who was the Second fon of a worthy neighbouring gent’eman) was entertained at her father’s seat in Berkfliire. — There he cast his eyes on lady Julia, and could not steel h’s breast against her charms, though from the peculiar turn of her father’s temper, who was bigoted to nobility and high descent, he could have little hopes of ever pofieffing her.
E 2
t.
After


After long hesitation, he opened his heart to the fair objecst of his flame, and
told her that he loved : fly received his
%
%
vows with kindness, and, after the young gentleman had Secretly addreflfed her for about a month, love inspiring him with boldness, he resolved, maugre every obstacle, to alk her in marriage of her parent.
From that nobleman he received fas might be expected) a flat denialhe was also given to sunderland, that the Sooner he coneluded his visit, the greater would be the obligation; and, in plain terms, that he mull never be admitted at that honfe again.
The officer, not so repulsed. Some time after, endeavoured to carry her off by force i but the attempt miscarried. War
breaking
"
77
breaking out, at this period, the successless lover went abroad, and met the death which now he courted, bravely fighting against the enemies of his king and country.
\
%
Lady Julia, when she heard the un
»
grateful news, had almost followed her lover to the grave; and though her life was Saved, a long and painful illness was the consequence of the Shock.
Disappointed as Ihe had been of her dearest wishes, never woman changed Ib much in her difpolition as lady Julia: from a Serious lover She became a mere coquette, and at the death of the earl, her father. She entertained a variety of suitors;; that one of her ladyship’s facetious lovers would Sometimes say to her as Horace does to Pyrrha:
E

Tell
I

78

Tell me^ad.ir creature who is now your favourite? For whom do you braid your golden locks., and deck yourself today?? indeed, the application was just.
This humour continued till one day file happened to see at Bath the person whom we have mentioned in the former chapter. He was styled captain Pollard, and was once an ensign in a marching regiment, but sold out to prevent being tried by a court-martial for cowardice. A tolerable fiiape, and a large stock of afturance, together with a sword and scar
iet coat, which he still affected to wear,
\
constituted all his merit. But lady Julia saw, or fancied that file saw, in his face lome resemblance of her deceased lover, and Die, who had deceived So many, herself became the dupe of a blind passion, and fell in love with this stranger— —


79
He Saw it, and played her oif to advantage, tui'iiing her own artillery against herself, which could not fail of giving great satisfaction to the women who envied her, and to the men wiiom her smiles had deluded,, by inspiring them, ■with an extravagant and hopeless love.
In short, her ladyship was So fully Satisfied with the captain’s person, bn the one hand, and he was So greatly enamoured of her fortune, on the other, that it was mutually agreed, they Should be joined together in holy matrimony unless Some ill natured person, knowing any j^ufi cause or impediments Should, in the interim, declare it.
Thus far lady julia’s history;; — to return to our hero and Mr. Levingfton. The former Soon found that the latter.
E 4
rn
So

V
«
in Ipite of all his philosophy, was devoted to the daughter of a London tradesman, who was but in indifferent cireumflances. She was then at Bath, and her loves closely pursued her; but she. though Hie was far from disliking his person held off till a large Settlement should be proposed on his part. If Mr. leving lion was backward in this particular, it. was not owing to a want of generosity in him, but to the persuasions of some few friends, whom he had entrusted with the
>
Secret. He feared his wisdom should be
4
called in question, and had ^cted accord -- iiigly, till she left London; but, as soon as he found the lady was gone, he foh lowed her, and pressed his Suit more ardently thtn ever'.
\
miss Leigh, (for that was her name) still kept to her point, and was the more
confirmed

8l
confirmed in her resolves, by the confi
r
deration, that a handsome marriage Settlement would be the means of preventing her from being dependent on, or subject to any little capricious humours of her husband.
Things were thus situated when Mr. Levingfton thought proper to make Charles privy to the affair, and to ask his advice in a cafe where counsel is generally thrown away. Having Seen the girl, and been admitted to her company and conversation, he fotind her a mild. Serious person, and a good oeconomift; poftefting a great deal of natural sense, though little indebted to education..
Our hero, perhaps, never acted more
judiciously than he did in this bufiness; for he had the address to cause one party
E 5
to
8z
 ’
to advance, in regard of proposals, and the other to fall, in point of demand, till both, at lall, coincided. In fine, it was agreed that Mr. Levingfton should make a reasonable Settlement on the lady of his affeeftions j and thus the affair was
brought to a happy conclusion.
CHAP
\

83
CHAP. XIII
sele(5t Observations — Continuation of the
\
History of Lady Julia — Mr. leving fton goes abroad.
R. Levingfton would "have had his. marriage Solemnised at Bath; bu
V
4
his intended bride, from prudential mo
%
diltuaded him.. Probably,, fhe thought they had both made themselves. rerharkable enough already; for in these
public places, people are mere gossips,,
/
make every one’s bulinefs their own;
%
while those people of fashion, who fancy themselves objects of admiration, will go. anywhere to be Hared at. These, like a (hew, may be Seen, at certain hours, by all comers and goers,, but with this maii terial difference,, that whereas furli as exhibit
public fpedacks. are generally well
satisfied
»4

Satisfied for their trouble, the gentry we treat of not only exhibit themselves gra^ iisy but pay handsomely for so doing.
Bath, like all other places of this kind, is a mere desert when thef^ shows are gone; and the inhabitants (caterpillarlike) lie still in their aurelia ftatc, till the next feason invites them to come forth gaudy butterflies, and wanton in the sunshine of plenty.
Indeed, our people of fashion generally take their circuit, like the judges y — it "were happy if their tour answered so good an end. But we may often say by them as the farmer Said of his mischievous fons, being told they were beating each other. It is well they are no worse em ployed.
Lady Julia and. her lover probably deferred their nuptials for the very same.
re

s5
reasons which had influenced the prudent miss Leigh to adopt that plan of a6tion.; namely, that all eyes were upon them, and every one had foraething to say of their affairs..
Mr. Clairville,. though he had never indeed been at Bath before, yet found it no hard matter to accommodate himself to a mixed multitude, who, however they might differ in other things, all agreed .together in a continued round
of dissipation. In the mean time,, it was pleasant enough to see what pains Mr. Levingfton took to support his character of gravity ‘>he would even pretend engagements when he had not any, in order to excuse himself from company that he really liked, and to leave amusements which his heart was seton, left his Inclination for them Should become too
apparent.

4*' -
 , ’
apparent, and the man of pleasure Should mar the philosopher..
I
An affeflation like this, opposed to his young desires, formed Such a Ilriklng contrail,, as one could not but smile at;
but as this gentleman had too much
0
good nature to be disliked. So he had also
0
too much good fense to be contemptible.. Though not a Stoic, he was really a natural philosopher; was tolerably versed: in hillory, and poffelted a competent share or learning,, with, a clear and penetrating judgement.
Even miss Leigh, maugre the dispa -- parity in their age, (for she had not palted her twenty-fifth year), had a Secret regard;
for him; though Ilie had prudently resolved not to. fur render at discretion.
These lovers were Joined within a fortnight after they reached London j and;
our

our hero, who had been handsomely rewarded for his journey to Bath, was one: of the guells invited to. the wedding.
But lady julia’s amour did not go on? so Successfully; for another person put in a prior claim to her lover’s vows, and,, in the end,, proved herself,, before the parties, to be his lawful wife,., whom he had taken to Scotland, and there basely deferred; abandoning her to want and misery, while he went elsewhere in quell of new fortunes. Thus was captain Pollard exposed, •, he had too much af fu ranee to be abashed,, he was highly enraged to see his. intended prey the trembling Julia, thus unexpe<^edly Snatched out of his power,, and himself deprived of her wealth,, which he already enjoyed in idea. He left the poor lady, half-dead with confusion, who, as soon
\

as

THE HAPPT EXTRAVAGANT.’
as Ihe had recovered from the Shock that Ihe had sustained from this affair, withdrew into the country, where, immuring herself like a nun, fhc resolved always to lead a single life..
Mr. Levingfton and his lady fet out, Ibon after their marriage, to make the tour of France; and our adventurer thought it time to look out for Some employment, though his patron promised to do great things for him as soon as he Should return to England.
y
About this time he met his old ac
A
quaintance Sharpley, who appeaerd very desirous of' renewing their former connexions, and, being told his present circumstances, said he believed he Should be able to help him to an advantageous place.

8o
* My cousin Morton, * Said he, ‘ is a
‘ person of great property, and carries
%
‘ on a very extensive trade : » he wants a. ‘ clerk; to him, if you please, I will ‘ recommend you, and doubt not but
‘ you will answer the good character
/
* I Shall give you, and condu6t his ‘ bulinefs every way to his fatisfacsiion.*
Though Charles was not without his fears, that by entering again among the mercantile part of the world, his former miscondudt at Mr. gainfby’s Should be blazed abroad, (which he had carefully concealed from Sharpley) yet, reflefling that he had been informed, Mr. Millain, who was gone abroad, had fully Satisfied that gentleman, he expressed his willing ness to accept the offer j and Mr. sharp lay appointed to meet him the next day
at
90

at a certain tavern, in order to talk farther about this matter.
They met accordingly; and after Some conversation concerning the affair. Sharp
lay having undertaken to Settle the preliminaries, our hero was introduced to
Mr. Morton, and received by him as a. clerk.
t H A F,
\
THE haply EXTRAVAGANT.
9^
CHAP. XIV
Character of Morton
His fraudulent
Proceedings ^a Match Spoiled.
ORTON affe61; ed to be very nice in his inquiry into the chasafler of our hero, for whose honelly his cousin was to give five hundred pounds security;; all this was a mere farce, carried on between these two deceivers, who abetted and Supported each other, and were perpetually laying Schemes to take in the unwary and unfufpedting part of mankind.
Sharpley thought Charles was a person who might be brought into their measures So far as to become useful in the execution of their plans, and might as easily be Sacrificed, in cafe of danger, for their preservation.
Mr,
t t
94

Mr. Morton (for Some private reasorrs) thought proper to take a journey to the west of England, whither Charles allb attended him. That pretended merchant had for Some time paid his addreftes to
the only daughter of a country gentleman, reftding in those parts. He now went frequently to her father’s,, (the lady still remaining in London) pressing hint to hasten the match.
But some unexpected delays arising, and calli growing Scarce with Mr. Clair
ville’s employer, he began to cast about
.*
for means to raise some. And first, he tampered with his new clerk, and endeavoured to engage him in dilhoneft pradlices; but when the other rejected his proposals with disdain, he made him some forced compliments on the inte

93
igrity of his heart, and, pretending he only had been trying him all the while, changed the discourfe.
But this expedient failing, the baffled merchant had recourse to another more dangerous he passed a forged note, and understanding that the fraud was detected, he decamped in the night, without any ceremony, and has never been ifeen or heard of in England since.
Charles was taken up, and examined concerning this matter; but was discharged with honour. However, he had now a fresh employer to Seek, being left alone, without friends, and almost without money, in a strange place *, so fickle and unkind was fortune to the hero of this history.
Thus
_ .%
94

w
Thus Situated, he was at a loss in what manner to proceed, till, by chance, he recollected he had heard that a relation of his old friend Amyand, a person of fortune, and one who was acquainted with the Ciairville family, then resided
ft
at T — jon which he relblved to ap
y
ply to him to procure him Some employment, or to afford him Some present assistance and' accordingly he fet forward
»
on his journey thither.
CHAP.

95
CHAP. XV. Mr. clairville’s Arrival at T

. Ad
venture at an Inn.
w
HEN Charles arrived at T he was greatly disappoint d to find that his intelligence was wrong, the gentleman whom he sought being removed, sometime since, to another part of the
country
While he was reflecting on his
situation, which indeed was a bad one, his whole treasure being a few shillings, he was agreeably surprised with hearing some soft tunes warbled forth by a sweet female voice, which he thought he had some knowledge of, and which sounded as from the next apartment to his. It was a large inn that our traveller had put
up at: he therefore inquired of the land
%
who it was that lodged in the room
^ ac^ining.’
q6  ,
adjoining. ‘ An adress, Sir, ’ Said he, ‘ for we have a company of Ilrolling ‘ players here; I am afraid they will give ‘ us cause to remember them whenever ‘ they leave us; but the young woman • I Speak of is really very handsome, and ‘ well behaved withal; and I believe Ihe ‘ has been bred in a much higher station ‘ of life. This evening, my wife drinks
• * 4
‘ tea in her apartment *, and if you are ‘ desirous to see her, you Shall be in troduced. I afiure you, all the gen ‘ tlemen hereabouts admire her, *
Our hero, finding his host Ib free and communicative, embraced the offer, and was accordingly admitted to the lady : but how great was his aftonilhment, to behold
in her the very identical miss Mariana Barclay, mentioned in the first volume

07
A
lume or this hillory, whom Sharpley had
formerly advised him to court for a wife. She was altered much for the better, hav ing lost her haughtiness and affectation, and her personal graces being besides greatly improved.
She was as much aftonilhed as our hero; but both of them thought proper to
conceal their wonder, and avoided Speaking of their affairs during this visit. At parting, Miss Barclay invited him to come and see her alone the next day he went at the time appointed, and dis courling very freely concerning their respective Situations in life, Mr. Clairvillc
related to that lady the most part of what had befallen him, since he had last Seen
her Sister, and communicated to her the
occasion of his present journey tot -- -- -,
and his disappointment there.
vol. II
F
In
o8

In consequence of this freedom, Mariana
engaged to inform our hero of what
had happened to her since the same period
i and after heaving a deep Sigh, and wiping away a falling tear, Ihe thus
began.
/

C H A f

99
CHAP. XVI
The History of a Strolling Player.
Y birth and rank in life (Said the lady) I need not expatiate upon to Mr. Clairville; Still less would it become me to describe my temper and manners to one who is so well acquainted with them.
To proceed then from that period when your courtihip of my lister was broken off, I ftiall begin my story;; is short, but full of misfortunes, chiefly.
owing to my own imprudence, and disregard of the counsel given me by my friends.
Some weeks after I saw you last, a young gentleman introduced himself to the good graces of my mother, and was
F
often
%
100

often invited by her to our house, of which invitation he took advantage to pay his addresses to me : I liked his person and manners, and permitted his courtlhip for a long while unknown to my mother. At length, when he became very prelfing with me to make him happy, as he termed it, I entreated him to be more explicit with me : — he answered, in a long Speech which I shall not repeat that he meant to request my hand in marriage. ‘ We have now trifled long
‘ enough. Sir, ’ Said 1, ‘ if you are in
‘ earnest, alk it of my parent.’ He started, and Seemed confused : when 1 inquired the reason of his Surprise, ‘ Cruel
‘ Mariana, ’ said he, with well dilfembled
\
tenderness, ‘ can you wonder that I am ‘ confounded, when I find the poflteflion ‘ of all I hold dear is at slake? — Do ‘ I live, but in you, and can you refer ‘ me to your mother? She never can feel

loi
‘ like me: why then Should I alk my ‘ Mariana of any but herself To this I replied, that I Should infill upon his
making the proposal, or quitting all farther pretensions to me. At lall, though with reluflance, he consented to make his application to my mother; and ac" cordingly he did So; in consequence of
this address, he received a refusal, and
1 some documents, respedling my beha^
%
viour, to which I sincerely willi had paid more attention.
Mr. Maitland (my lover) discontinued his visits at our houle; but persuaded me to meet him at other places. In Short, we carried .on, for a considerable time, this kind of Secret correspondence, in the course of which he So highly flattered my vanity, and played off my temper So well, that my heart became entirely devoted to him : he then proposed that I
F 3
Should
102
fnould elope, and I could not but consent, for I was no longer miftress of my fels: Such power has the Soothing tongue of Adulation over the moll haughty of
our Sex *, and had you. Sir, wooed me as you did my lifter, both my person and
fortune would, in all probability, have been yours; since I Should have bestowed
the former upon you,, and my mother, who once greatly regarded you, would
not have withheld the latter although
now file is irreconcilable.
But to resume my story j — Mr. Maitland decoyed me from my parent, under pretence of going V 'ith him to be married
in Scotland : and accordingly we took
the northern road, travelling with great expedition, in a pofc chaile which he had
hired for the purpose. When night came on, I grew weary, (having Set out
at daybreak, and Hopped only once in
all

103
all the time) my lover, therefore, ordered the driver to Hop at a certain house in the village that we were just upon entering
: ‘ For’ Said he, ‘ I have formerly ‘ known the woman whom I intend for
‘ our hoftess, and we may depend on civil
V
‘ treatment and the utmost privacy, the
#
‘ latter of which we cannot expect to ‘ find at a common inn.
We put up at the place he mentioned; when, after I had taken some refreshment, I retired to the chamber provided for me, and, having locked my door, made haste into bed, where my fatigue Soon caused me to fall afteep.
How long I numbered I know not; but, awaking from a dream of terror, I found myself clasped in a man’s arms. I Screamed j but he flopped my mouth.
F 4
crying.
104  ,
\
crying, ‘ Be not alarmed, dear maid 5 ‘ it is I, Maitland, your lover, your husband!! day or two Shall unite us ‘ for ever — ‘ base and unmanly !’ Said I, ‘ how got you hither, and how durft ‘ you violate the trust reposed in you ?*
I was proceeding; but he interrupted me by saying that he entered through a
private door in the wainscot, •, repeating his promises, renewed his embraces. I struggled, but in vain; and he, by the power of alternate threats and carcfles, with added force, at last fub chied my virtue j — unworthy triumph \ cruel treachery!
to
After this treatment, it were needless repeat to you my behaviour, or the Soothing Speeches of the Seducer, who strove to persuade me that I was no ways injured. All I could infill on was marriage,


105
riage, and this he Solemnly promised as Soon as we should arrive in Scotland : but when we reached York, he feigned himself ill, and found many other ex
cules for delaying his expedition. We remained above a week in that city, during which time he treated me as his wife; but I, who was impatient to become foin reality, made frequent remonstrances on this fubjecs: •, yet (now the firll transports of my grief) had subsided, they were mild and gentle, and calculated to awake only love and pity ♦, and if a reproach fell from me, it was so tempered with softness and affection, as could not have raised anger even in the
moult Savage breall. I called the betrayer my love, my friend,, my brother, and threw myself entirely on his protedioui, as my beloved husband, and my only ree
now on earth.
F 5
I have
i06
1 have heard it observed, that our Sex often fare the worse in these exigencies, on account of an ill timed, outrageous heat, which deters those who were once their admirers, from being any farther connected with them. You may judge from my story how little I was deserving of Such a censure.
Yet my lover’s affeflions cooled, yet he began to treat me with indifference.
To complete my misfortunes, he
\
went out one morning, as to take the air, and within two hours after his departure sent me a note, advising me to confider where, in future, I should bellow myself, since it was probable that I should never see him more : — farther, he therein informed me, that he was about
to marry a lady of fortune, recommended
, *
to him by his relations, whom he mufl
obey,

  loy
obey, and that it was, therefore, in vain for either of us to repine at our deliiny.
A
Imagine to yourself, Sir, what mull have been the emotions of my heart, on reading this viie Scrawl. Grief and anger
polfelfed my soul by turns : I wept, I raved, I beat my breast, and tore my hair, and behaved like one that was frantic. But, at length, reason took place of passion, 'and, laying aside fruitless
wailings and lamentations, I resolved to return to town; there to try if Some of my friends could not be prevailed on to intercede for me with my mother— —
did So; but none of them would look upon me: reproaches and bitter taunts were all the returns I received for penitence and humility. Wearied with inef_ fedtual entreaties of this kind, in the end,
I wrote a submiltive and pathetic letter to
my
i08
\
my mother, and Sent it by a stranger; but the bearer having imprudently mentioned from whom it came, it was Sent me hack unopened. — Thus I plainly per
ceiv d that I mull Ihift for myself, and determined to at accordingly. Indeed, it was high time to think of providing
myself with some honest means of lub
•i
liftence; my own cash, which I took
with me from home, being nearly ex
haulled, and my betrayer having taken care to leave me none of his.
I was conllrained to make away with
several things of value, before I could procure myself any suitable place : at
length, the gentlewoman, with whom I lodged, pitying my condition, recommended me as governess to a boarding fchool in somersetfhire. There I Ilaid
till I was found to be with child; upon
which
  IO
which I was discharged at a minute’s no tice, and, consequently, had my fortunes to leek afresh
}
my time drew on, I grew daily more and more perplexed and diftrelted. I was delivered of a dead child, and reduced to absolute want, having scarcely food to eat, or clothes to cover myself, wretched, forsaken, Ipiritlefs; when a young gentleman, who was reduced to take up the occupation of a player, (but who has been
better bred) saw me, and compaiserated my condition. He gave me what little assistance
he could, persuading me, withal, to enter my self among these comedians (as they term themselves) by way of a temporary relief \ and with them I lately came hither. So ends my history.
The chief thing that I find disgufl full in this way of life is the indecent freedom
no THE HAPPY EXTRAYAGANT.
I
dom, with which people in general and our young country gentlemen in particular, affect' to treat, indiscriminately, all those who are unhappy enough to be ad reffes in a strolling company. But from Such, Mr, Truelock is luy belt defence, and my moil: faithful guardian.
CHAP,
  Ill
CHAP. XVII
Truelock makes his Appearance persuades his Friend to join him.
He
A
T hearing his former acquaintance
I
truelock’s name thus unexpedlediy 'mentioned, Charles Started with a Sudden surprise; but he had no time for questions, before that gentleman entered the room.
The two friends soon became known to
each other, and, forgetting those circumstances which .had occasioned their parting, appeared Sincerely rejoiced to
meet again, while the young lady Seemed to share in their satisfaction.
Truelock informed our hero, that, having carried on a buiiness which he
knew little of, in London, and lived at
a higher
; N’

/
III THE HAPPY EXTRAVAG.ANT.
a higher rate than his gains would allow,
%
he had become a bankrupt, and had afterwards experienced various turns of fortune, in the course of which he was twice imprisoned for Small debts, and with difficulty got his release. At last, one of his chance acquaintances, a player (who had
been also a fellow prisoner) advised that he Should qualify himself for the stage: : * * said he, ‘ there will be great al ‘ terations ere long, it is expefled, in ‘ the management of a certain house j ‘ when buffoonery ffiall once more give
‘ place to merits and empty sound to manly
‘ Jenfe. A youth of known abilities will
take the lead, assisted by an author
%
‘ of reputation, and the stage ffiall nou ‘ riffi under their auspices. I would ad ‘ vise you, therefore, to take advantage
‘ of that favourable feason, and come ‘ amongst us, where there is no doubt
‘ but
 ,
liq
‘ but in time you will make a good fi ‘ gure, meanwhile, I will recommend ‘ you to the manager of a strolling company, with whom I would have you
‘ take a jaunt, for improvement.’ — The
young gentleman hearkened to this coun
»
fel; partly, because he was pleased with the prospeft that his friend had presented
to him i and partly, on account of his then embarrassed circumstances, which would not permit him to reside in town, and drove him to Seek a livelihood elsewhere.
Accordingly, he went a circuit with
the comediansand was now arrived, toge
%

there with Mr. prompt’s company, (for it
was no other) at T
where Mr.
Clairville beheld him. This Prompt (of whom we have formerly made mention, was a blundering, well-meaning man; but very apt to forget himself amongst
strangers,

i14
strangers.. to talk in a manner unbecoming his station: : to his wife, over whoni he ought to have exerted his authority, and who was the worst of women, he was entirely subject.
Into this company, however, such as it was, Charles was persuaded by True
lock to be initiated j that gentleman undertaking to Speak to Mr. Prompt (or
rather to his wife) in his behalf.
/
Yet it was not without hesitation, that our adventurer, distressed as he was,
came into a Scheme that must thus abase
*
his port, and reduce him below the
meanell rank : little did his Spirit brook this change; but the united force of per fuasion and example, and, above all, the consideration of his immediate neces
fities, were motives too powerful to be resiited he yielded, therefore, and
having

h5
having given a slight Specimen of his abilities was admitted as a brother of the bufldn.
Though Mr. Clairville remembered the manager, yet he easily pereived he was not recolledled by him, which gave him
no Small Satisfaction. But now came the time in which he was to exhibit in public. Venice preserved was the play Selected for that night, and Pierre by a
YOUNG GENTLEMAN, printed in large
characters. Served to catch the eyes of the gazers, and to draw together a number
of Spectators.
Mr. Clairville, ' notv/ithflanding the

perturbation of his Spirits, went through
his part So well as to gain universal applause: : Jaffier and Belvidera were performed by Truelock and Mariana,
in a manner which was rather dictated by
the
Il
the feelings of the heart, than guided by the rules of theatrical propriety.
The Fair penitent was ordered for the tuefday night following, (Lothario to be performed by our hero when moll of
the company promised to honour the exhibition with their presence, and came accordingly. Some also came, who had
made no Such promise;; will be seen ia the following chapter.

pm.. >

t *

0
\

* •

CHAP.
■' • :
^ ->
V
i' ■
r.
R — % ■
  II
CHAP. XVIII
A Country Play — The Performers disconcerted
by an Accident.
T HE play went on with applause
before a numerous audience; true lock performing the part of Altamont,
s
Mariana, that of Califta, and our droop
r
ing hero representing, as we have already noticed, ‘ the haughty, gallant, gay Lo ‘ thario, ’ and everything was conduced with the greatell decorum, till an accident cut Short the evening’s entertainment.
When Altamont and Lothario fought together, in the fourth at, the former, by millake, using a Iliarp sword instead of a fcil, consequently, wounded the latter.
WHO,
receiving his thrust, fell down bleeding at his feet. — The curtain was
dropped;
Il
dropped; yet not before he had (to the surprise of all present) repeated the dy ing speech which belonged to his charade r.
All attempts, however, to proceed with the performance, were vain •, Mr Truelock and mariana‘being so deeply affected, that they could not be brought to repeat another line of the piece, notwithstanding Mrs. Prompt and her huss

band were loud in their vociferations for
A
4
its continuance.
Meanwhile, the audience were all in confusion, and one lady fainted away. — Mrs. Prompt thought these grounds Sufficient to exercise her railing faculties. and fire did So, without Sparing. Not only poor Truelock, but even his wounded friend, came under the lalh of her censure“ “hated blunderers, and ob.
.

119
ftinate folks, for whose errors other people were likely to suffer : the quality were
difobiiged, and fiightetjed away; the QUALITY would never come again; but
Mr. Prompt Should discharge ihose who had occasioned this dilturban< e, or he might perform by himself for her.” Such were her Sentiments on this occasion; and being conveyed to Charles, they Served to
give him a just idea of these people, who, in general, have neither honour, honesty, nor common humanity, to recommend
them.
But Mrs. prompt’s tone was altered, when a livery fervant came the next day,
and regularly every morning, to inquire after Mr. charlton’s health, for he went by that name) from a lady unknown. By the same hand our adventurer, when he recovered from his wound, which was not dangerous, though it had caused a great
effulion
i20 '
effusion of blood, received the following Short note.
4
‘ If Mr. Charlton will give himself the ^ trouble to call at Mr. soames’s, in e m Street, and inquire there for ‘ M. W. he may hear of Something to his * advantage, and will be kindly received ‘by
‘his friend unknown.’
Mr. Clairville, though he could not guess from whom this address Should come, yet accepted the invitation, and
fet out for the place appointed.
■ f

C H A P.
\
\
V f

*;
HAPPY extravagal^t. 121

*% *
CHAP. XIX
'The Force of Friendship— — Journey to
London.
t
f
K ’f
w

HEN Charles arrived at Mr. soames’s, upon making inquiry
as the note directed, he was shown into an elegant diningroom, *, he had only waited.a few minutes, when, to his great Surprise, his female friend Mrs. Williams, richly drelted, entered the apartment. Seeing that he was astonished and con fused, she Seated herself by him, and, tenderly pressing his hand : ‘ Mr. Clairville, ‘ my friend, ’ Said llie, ‘ my deliverer
‘ from Shame and Sorrow, be comforted!
\
‘ I have Such news to tell you as will ‘ cheer your drooping Spirits, and rellore
‘ you to your former Self.’ That lady then proceeded to inform him that miss
elby
VOL. II
G
C
o
122
Selby was returned from abroad, and was in the actual polieffion of the full a mount of her fortune; and, what was Still more extraordinary, that his ftep fa there was dead, and, repenting of his former cruelty towards him, had left him three thousand pounds in his will. She also acquainted him, that his friend Amyand, who had succeeded in his West india expedition, and was at St. chriltopher’s island, had Sent after him to Jamaica and Martinico, with an intent of giving him some afsiftance, but found that he was returned to England.
;
This was all amazement j and Charles could Scarcely have given credit to what he heard, but that he knew he was conversing with Such as would not deceive him : but his joy was beyond expreleon, when Mrs. Williams gave him to under
I
(land
• '• ■ -
  I2J
(land that, truant as he had been to love, his Emily dill harboured a pafiion for him in her tender bread, which not ei there time, absence, or the account Ihe heard of his extravagances had been able to dedroy. ‘ Thus much have I ventured. ‘ to disclose, ’ Said Mrs. 'Williams, ‘ be ‘ cause I thought you were in want of a
V
‘ cordial to raise your Spirits; but do not ‘ you be intoxicated with it. Remember, ‘ Sir, you mud play the penitent lover ‘ before miss Emily, who would never
‘ forgive me, if Sne knew that I had thus ‘ betrayed the trud She reposed in me.’
‘ Where, where is the lovely maid ?* Said Charles, enraptured. ‘ At her own ‘ house in London, Mr. Ciairville, ’ re plied his friend, ‘ where you mud fpeedi ‘ ly go and lee her j but. Some time ‘ Since, that lady lodged where I did.
G 2
and
124 HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
‘ and made me her bofom fricnd and ‘ confidant, ’
Ater much discourse of this kind, it
\
was resolved, that our hero Should be e quipped with money and other necessaries, and that he Should leave -- -- -- -- -- -- --
with all convenient expedition. These things being fettled, he departed accordingly, having first taken a friendly leave of Truelock, and made him some little presents;; Mrs. Williams chose, at this time, to take no notice of the lait
I
mentioned gentleman, and he thought it no hard matter to account for her behaviour in this respect.
CHAP.
  l
CHAP. XX
t
Charles arrives in London — Mrs. Hari

ley’s kindness — Some Reflections on Gratitude.
\
T is easy to conceive that Mr. clair ville was impatient to behold his Emily, and at her feet to renew those vows which he had formerly breathed out there with so much fervour. Mrs. Williams promised to introduce him, and encouraged him to hope for a favourable re cepiion. ‘ The dear creature, ’ said fly, ‘ will forget all your follies, when Ihe ‘ once more fees and converses with you : ‘ yet (he has Suffered much for your sake, ‘ and has been a traveller as well as you : ‘ but you mull not know the particulars
‘ of her story, till you hear them from
G
3
her
126
‘ her own mouth. In the mean time. Sir, ‘ we will, if you please, pay a visit to
I
‘ your old friend, my aunt Harley : file
\
‘ is, by this time, pretty well acquainted ‘ with Mils Selby.’
Accordingly, our hero went with his amiable friend, to see the good old lady. Her they found employed in als of benevolence towards certain poor persons, whom, ever Since an unexpected increasc of her fortune, die had made it her cus tom, at stated times, to relieve.
In order to explain this, it is proper that we fiiould inform the reader of Some circlimftances which happened to Mrs. Harley and Mrs. Williams, previous to
our adventurer’s return to England.
*
The former of these ladies, vrho had
taken the latter into partnership in the
wine

127
wine trade. Soon after found herself so much embarralted with bad debts, and
other cross circumstances, that he feared
* ■* •
She Should be obliged to flop payment, and to Shut up her doors; when, to her great joy and surprise, a lottery ticket, in which She was a joint fliarer with her
niece, came up a prize of five thousand
/
pounds that winter. This enabled her not only to retrieve her circumstances, but to carry on a more extensive business
than ever she had done before. In grate
/
acknowledgement to Heaven for this Linexpeded relief, fly useci to give a charitable donation, monthly, to five poor
families, on the Same day of the month that the fortunate event, winch we have
above
I 1
Ti' 1
■ j
happened to her. But
Mr. Clairviile h?.d heard nothing of this, neither did he know that Mrs. Williams..
G 4
being
128

being' in daily expedacion of her hus band’s return, with great riches, from a broad, had declined the partnerlliip, and left her good aunt, as at firll she had found her, in Sole possession of the business' '
to return — Mrs. Harley received our hero with unfeigned pleasure, was very earn eft in offering her intercession with Emily in his behalf, and treated him (notwithstanding the ill returns that he had formerly made to her kindness) more like a Hear and dear relation, than a common acquaintance.
As to Mrs., Williams, gratitude, the most amiable of virtues, appeared in her
f
in its most agreeable light. It was to a strong effort of this principle that all that lady’s care of Charles was owing. What
could

20
could be more noble than Such a behaviour; and how detestable do those appear, who return evil for good! Ingratitude is certainly one of the greatest crimes that passes unpunished here on earth, and Seems to be a Sufficient proof of the frailty and insufficiency of all human institutions;; an effort to pu
nisi this offence, would be vague and
/
uncertain, and include in it the moult
t
glaring absurdities.
G 5
CHAP.
130
CHAP. XXL
The Lovers Meeting — Mr. Truelock lent
for to London.
W
HEN the ladies introduced Mr. Clairville to his cousin, their meeting was Such as it is not easy to describe Suffice it to say, that it was such as became
two dear friends and lovers long separated. The roving knight, after a few gentle upbraidings, was received into favour, and his lady once more lillencd with pleasure to his repeated vow's of con llancy and truth.
If Emily was fair when sir ft her lover beheld her, Ihe was now more exquisitely charming; her beauties were ripened by the mellowing hand of time •, a deeper vermilion glowed on her lovely cheek, and her bright eyes shone with additional
lustre.
THE HAPPY ex'i'ravagant.
131
lustre. In short, she was all that the warmest imagination could paint, all that the moll feeling heart could desire.
It was matter of consolation to this amiable girl, to find that Charles, amidll all his extravagances, had not discovered the Symptoms of a bad heart: on the contrary. Such gleams of generosity and ' benevolence often appeared through the clouds which enveloped his character, as plainly witnesfed that the seeds of virtue were too deeply rooted in his mind ever to be totally eradicated; and the time
was now approaching, in which they were to Shoot forth with fresh vigour,
Mrs. Williams now proposed to send for Mr. Truelork to town, and do something for him, to such an exalted pitch did her notions of gratitude carry her;
notwithlland
132
notwithstanding the person abovementioned had behaved in Such a manner to ■ her as might well be supposed to cancel the obligations he had conferred on her. But the lady thought She had Sufficiently mortified him, in Suffering him to pass unnoticed, when she had taken So much pains with Mr. clairville’s affairs, at T -- -- --. He was now written to, and
invited to come up to London to his
t
friend, and came accordingly. But he appeared much confiised when he was introduced to Mrs. Williams, who now had
✓
all the advantage of him which the dignity of Superior virtue could give one mortal over another. Yet she Softened her features into a complacent Smile, and thus addressed him:
‘ Mr. Truelock, you have been Sent for hither, in order to receive fjpporc
‘ and
  133
‘ and assistance from your friends, and I ‘ desire to be ranked among that num ‘ ber. I think, I read in your counte ‘ nance the sentiments of your mind;
‘ but you may spare yourself the trouble * of uttering them. To be brief with ‘ you. Sir, I have received at your hands ‘ a very great favour, and I have receiv ‘ ed also what I may jullly term an af ‘ front j the former Shall always live in ‘ my memory, but the latter shall be ‘ quite forgotten. — To Mr. Clairville and ‘ to you I owe whatever I now am, and ‘ neither of you shall want any affiltance which it is in my power to give.’
A proposal was then made, that Mr. Truelock should come into an old accus tomed shop, in the business that he had been bred to, which was then vacant;
I
Mrs. Harley and Mrs. Williams agreeing
to
r'
1^4
to advance the money required upon his entrance.

‘ You were pleased, Madam, ’ Said the, young gentleman, ‘ to pity, as I thought, ‘ my confuiion : but now you have con ‘ sounded me more than ever with your ‘ goodness. What if I did, indeed, con ‘ fer a slight obligation on you, yet how ‘ meanly did I go about to repay myself!’
‘ Come, no more of this. Sir, ’ said the lady, ‘ let us be a little more gay. I af ‘ sure you, there one upon his return to England, who will thank you most
*• for your kindness to me; but
^.
‘ we must keep our own counsel j though ‘ I believe the man is not of a very sus
‘ picious temper.
I
Though Mrs. Williams laughed while
she spoke this, yet Truelock could not
but

^35
but be flung by refledling with how bad a grace he must receive the acknowledgements of the man, whose wife he had, in return for a few pecuniary favours, attempted to Seduce.
But now miss selby’s coming in gave a different turn to the conversation.
Charles having asked that lady to relate
/
what had happened to her Since last be Saw her, ftie acquiesced, and Spoke as will be Seen in the following chapters.
CHAP,
M -
126
CHAP. XXII
t
miss Emilia Selby begins to relate her
Hi (lory.
A
F T E R you left my fathers house, (Said the beautiful Emily, addressing herself to her lover)' I received orders to get myself in readiness, by a certain day, to go to church with Mr. Colville, though I would as willingly have gone to my
I
grave. But my parent said he should never think my honour secure, till he saw
me married. miss Maynard allb, who now
*
Seemed to be my mistress (for reasons that I believe you are not unacquainted with) took a particular pleasure in railing at you, and tormenting me.
Mean
• f V:

137
Meanwhile, I was bulled in forming a hundred Schemes to prevent the Sacrifice, which was about to be made of my pert

Son, from taking place *, and if, at last
« '
had remained no other means of deliverance) I really believe I fhouldhave
I
given him an absolute denial at the altar, and hazarded the consequences of such a
i
conduct.
But Heaven was pleased not to put me to So Severe a trial— — the day fixed on for our wedding, Colville fell sick; and my health being impaired by a long confinement to my chamber, I obtained leave of my father to walk, every morning and evening, in the garden, on condition, however, of being accompanied either by miss Maynard or by another female attendant, of my father’s own
chusing.
138  ,,,
»
choosing. Yet I flattered myfels that I Should, by the means of this liberty, be able to efleo; my escape j in which cafe I would have thrown myself into the pro te6lion of a cousin of mine in London, whom I had found methods to acquaint with my disagreeable Situation, and who would have been willing to receive me. In the interim, I took care to appear somewhat more tradable to my father’s wilk and Seemed to abate of my averflon to the match that he had proposed, in order the better to conceal mv design,
j o
Thus did he, against: his inclination, instruct me how so diflfemble. But an unex
ft
peded event delivered me from my fears, without my having occasion to put my design into execution.
One evening, as tired with walking, I had reposed myself in a green arbour,
(my

139
(my new attendant waiting at Some distance)

I thought I heard Mr. colville’s voice, and that of miss Maynard, as in deep conversation. Left my ears ftiould have deceived me, I had recourse also to the evidence of my eyes; and looking ciosely between the jeflamine boughs, I could plainly perceive my lover closely embracing the girl, and thing all the gestures of a paltionate lover. By this time, my woman coming up, put a stop to my curiosity, and I returned to my apartment, greatly pleased with the Scene that I had been witness to, as I naturally sup posed that I fiiould now no longer be troubled with my tormentor’s addrefies.
But in this I found myself deceived •, for, the next day, I was informed that Mr. Colville, being recovered from his illness, was come to renew his visits to
me.
140
me. I supposed he did this only to Save appearances, and theresore I took no notice of what had happened; but behaved to him with imusual complaisance. I was Surprised, ' however, to find that he Showed the same eagerness for pressing the match as he had done all along *, and, he would moll certainly have carried on his deceit to the last, had he not conduct
I
ed his intrigue So unwarily as to Suffer it to be discovered by my father, who overheard a night’s conversation of his in the. garden. Somewhat of this he communicated to me, yet in so obscure a manner, that, were it not for what I had myself heard and Seen, I might have thought he entertained suspicions concerning Some intrigue of mine with a Stranger j yet, as. circumstances flood, we Soon came to an explanation. I then desired him not to
communicate


141
communicate his surmises to any one; he promised me that he would not, and we concerted methods to give him more full Satisfaction in regard to this matter. I had found, by this time, that Nancy and Colville met at a certain hour every night in the garden, and resolved to plant myself at a ftair case window, where I might be apprized of their meeting. My father was then to go down, and fas ten the garden gate on the outside, by which means it would be easy for him to surprise them.
It is certain, however, that I should
4
by no means have interested myself So much in this affair, had it not been to deliver myself from the odious addresses of one whom worse than death I hated. Revenge had not the lead share in this busmefs; for I looked on miss
Maynard
\
142
Maynard (notwithllanding fly had behaved very ill towards me) as an object rather of pity than of resentment. I was very sorry that I mull be forced thus to expofe.der; but it was Such a Sacrifice as I could not help making, and every concurring circumstance justified me in the procedure.
, \
N
C H A P.
\
THE HAPPY EXTRAVA«ANT.
143
CHAP. XXIII
miss Selby's History continued.
H E S E dispositions being made accordingly, my father Sat up in his chamber, expedling the signal, which I waited to give him.
About twelve, I could hear Nancy go
i
ing down flairs very Softly, and Soon after the garden gate was opened, and Mr. Colville entering, was met by his miftress As Soon as I heard them walk into the arbour, I gave my father notice, who went down, and Saftened the gate on the other fide. Having done this, he went round, by way of the house into the garden, attended by a Servant, and taking with him a Sword and a dark lantern,
he Hopped behind the arbour, unnoticed
%
by the amorous pair. Thus Situated, he
overheard

144

overheard a great deal of their conversation j in the course of which it appeared that Colville had bound himself to make a handsome provision for his paramour. ‘ But, ’ Said he, ‘ I must marry Emily,
‘ though her ill usage has converted my
%
‘ love for her into .hatred For upon this ‘ very match my fortune must, in a great ‘ measure, depend, as my father is now ‘ become as eager for it as ever I myself ‘ was After this, and much more dif courfe of the same fort, they fell into a more amorous parley. In short, they were close locked in each other’s embraces, when Mr. Selby discovered himself, and started out from behind the jes famines; at the same time the Servant opening his lantern, the Sudden flood of light, which played upon their faces, and the unexpected appearance also of one
whom

145
whom they had So much reason to wilh might be a stranger to their meetings, struck them with a mute afconilhment. Colville, immediately drawing out a pistol,
fired it at my father, but missing his aim, ran off, overturned the Servant who
carried the light, climbed the garden wall, and made his escape, But Nancy,
endeavouring to follow him, fell down, and was presently Surrounded by the dos
/
meftics, whom I had alarmed, on hearing
the noise of the firearms, and who came
/
running towards the arbour. It is easy to
imagine that She was discharged, in aeon fequence of this adventure j and, as for
Mr. Colville, I have never Seen him Since.
Some overtures viere indeed made by his
father to mine, tending towards a renewal
V I
of the treaty of marriage, but in vain; and Sir Giles was greatly provoked at his fon
for his misconduct..
II
II
A few
\
146
A few days after this affair happened, my cousin, whom I lately mentioned, paid us a visit, with intention to use all his in
I
terest, in my behalf with my father, that I might not be forced to this match, which
being broken off before his arrival, he did not care to impart the occasion of h‘is
journey. But, pleased with the situation of Mr. selby’s fear, and Solicited by his invitations, the good man remained with
u, till a sickness attacked him, that proved fatal to him. Dying, he left the greatest part of his fortune, which was very considerable, to my father, whose wealth ('as you are fensible) was far from being so great as it was generally imagined to be. '
About this period. Sir John TAND his lady came to settle in Kent. The knight contradled an intimacy with our family, and my father thought himself
happy

*47
happy in his acquaintance. They were perpetually together, and every day their mutual confidence Seemed to increase.
V
Could my parent have divined what
»
I was to fufser, by means of that deceitful man, in how different a light would he have viewed him. But prescience is not the gift of mortals, and daily experience evinces how precarious our reliance is upon the strength of human wisdom.
H 2
CHAP
148

CHAP. XXIV
./
Farther Continuation of miss Selby’
History.
N E V Suitor now troubled me with his addreltes this was no
eldest
/
other than the young lord V — ^ —,
fon of the earl of H -- -- -- *, he was a vain,
efieminate young man, and might properly be ranked among those modern fetit mattresj who justly deserve the title of coxcomb. As for his person, he was tall and Slim, had a very fair complexion, and white Ifaxen locks, which he Seemed to be extremely proud of. A certain disagreeable Softness dilfufed itself over his whole form, and his Self admiring airs were intolerable. those who thought to find in this vain Narcissus a delicacy of
mind correspondent to the Soft texture of his limbs, were highly deceived; for,
though

149
though he Sometimes alfumed the malk'of Sentiment, yet he was, in reality, no bec ter in his actions than a profligate.
\
You will naturally imagine, Mr. clair ville, ths his lordihip met with no favourable reception from me *, nay, I often treated him with a raillery which my father,
(though he had lately left me to follow the bent of my own inclinations) did not entirely approve. ‘ I could wish
^ ’ Said he, ‘ that you would treat « his lordship a little more refpedfully : ‘ he is young, and generally elleemed * handsome j and the large posseflrions of ‘ the earl his father mull devolve to him.
‘ If you become his wife, you will have
‘ wealth, titles, and precedency, and e ‘ very thing that can" be wished for’ — ‘ Except, ’ interrupted I, ‘ a .good and tender husband. Pardon me. Sir! I can ‘ not love this nobleman, nor respect: him
H
3
as
350
\
* as my lord j and Since you have in ‘ dulged me So far as to leave me to my ‘ own choice, you mull give me leave al ‘ So to declare that it can never light on ‘ him My father Said he was Sorry for it, and departed, ddiring only, that I would admit of the nobleman’s visits a
little while longer.
Though I could
not perceive any end that this would answer, yet I did nor chuse, at that time? to raise farther objections; and thus the matter reded.
But his lordship, impatient of what he termed my colclness, had formed a Scheme to bring matters to a Speedy conclusion. He invited both my father and myself to a little pleasure house of his, a few miles off, which vras newly built, in order, as
he Said, to Spend a few hours in mirth, and to give our judgement of his talle,
as
r

^51
as to the design. and manner of laying out his gardens. I must own, I did not approve the proposal (not indeed that I fuspedted any design, but because I did
not like lord V
-- -- company) however,
in obedience to my father’s commands, I accompanied him on the visit, We fe out in the morning early, with an intent to return at night •, but about two hours after our arrival, a man on horseback
came and delivered a mefiage to Mr. Selby, importing that Sir John T desired to Speak to him immediately upon very, urgent business. As the knight’s seat was not far distanr, my faiher went
H
thithei*, after haying made Some apologies
to lord V
and left hie to bear him
company. Some time after, he proposed taking a walk in the garden : good manners forbade my contradidting him, and
^ I
we traversed several pleasant Spots, which
H
were
152
were indeed laid out in a tafle elegant ei

. hough. While we were thus walking and talking I was Surprised to see a Servant enter at the back gate of the garden, to
inform his lordihip that the poft chariot was ready. ‘ Very well; let it wait a little,
then, ’ Said he; and, turning to me.
/■
*■ if you pleai

‘ A carriage, Madam, upon a new con ‘ Ilruftion, a trifling fancy of my own ‘ which I had a mind to afle your opinion ‘ of, we will take a view of it presently,
After S: me trifling dif coiirfe of this sort, he took a flute out of his pocket, and had no sooner begun to play on it (which, I suppose, vas the signal) than the garden gate opened again, anf the same servant entering, laid fast
hold of me, in a rude manner, and presented a cord to his mailer, who began
suddenly to bind me, whilst L fereamed
aloud. ‘ Monster !’ said I, ‘ what are
‘ thy

153
4
‘ thy vhcked purposes, and how dareft ‘ thou to use me thus ?’ — ‘ Stop her ‘ mouth !’ cried he to his assistant, which being accordingly done, ‘ Now, Emily, ’ Said the villain, ‘ I shall be revenged on ‘ you. You would not content to be
* my wjse : • — it is likely that I Shall ‘ now poffess your beauties on more easy
‘ terms. They then bore me, Struggling in vain, into the adjacent road, where the chariot was indeed in waiting. But before they could pohibly convey me to
r
it, a neighbouring gentleman, of the name of Bradley, on horseback,, with two
attendants, crosted upon them. Lord V -- -- -- then Swerved from the direct road,
and would have carried me round by another way; but Mr. Bradley observing
that they were mal treating a woman, pursued
them, which the villain perceiving, stead fait away with his Servant, and left
H 5
me
154 'THE HAPPY EXTRAYAGANT.
me on the ground, in a dirty, narrow lane, where he knew those who chased, him mull stop, imless they would ride o
•
ver me; and thus they reached the carriage, (which the driver, perceiving his lord to be pursued; had brought round to meet him) while Mr. Bradley and his attendants were busied in railing and comforting me. That good gentleman, who
was peribnally acquainted both with me and my father, was very much Surprised
when he Saw whom he had delivered, and
/,
was Still more So when he heard my Story. Laying aside the buliness that he was go ing upon, he made haste to conduct
me home \ and, on the way, we met my
>
father. Having perceived by Sir john’s discourse, that the message was a false one, llruck with a Sudden fuspicion, he
returned to Lord V -- -- -- ’s little tenement,
but found it shut up, and deserted, and
was
THE, HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
155
was now going towards our house, in \ •
great anxiety of mind, to Seek me. We
went thither altogether, where I was put to bed, in a weak condition, after having been made to take proper refreshment. This, affair, however, cost me a fit of sickness, •, — thus ended the courtfliip
of lord V — —, who had taken this opportunity of making the tour of France and Italy.
Mr. Bradley was very assiduous in his attendance upon me, during my illness, and, I verily believe, was inclined to offer himself as a Suitor; but hearing me express my aversion to addresses of this
kind, he forbore Soliciting me; and, as to my father, he vowed never more to importune me on this head', in behalf of
1
any one. Thus I was once more left at
During
O
156
During this time, Sir John t*'**’s in timacy in our family increased, and I be came acquainted with his lady. She was a fine woman, and had a Sweet, enpraginjg
countenance, which, however, was tinctured with melancholy, the cause of which I was then ignorant of; but I have
since come to the knowledge of it, together with many circumstances relating to the family, that I was cnce a Ilranger
to.
Mr. Selby, being taken ill of a violent fever, and finding his end approaching
Sent for the knight, whom he elleemed as his dearefi friend, and in his presence, as weir as that of. many of his own acquaintance, Spoke to me to the following
effect:
‘ My dear child, I am now about to leave this world, and my last care is
‘ your

ST
‘ your welfare. I have therefore thought ‘ proper to put you under the guardian ‘ Ship of Sir John TI doubt not ‘ but you will find him to aft the part ‘ of a father by you, if you behave to ‘ him as a daughter. respeft him, there ‘ fore, as my fubllitute, as the substitute
• Heaven, and let his prudence be the ‘ rule of your actions i -- If you should ‘ be inclined to enter into a married date,
do it not without his consent. Above
‘ all. Should Fortune chance to throw ‘ your coufm Charles in your way, take ‘ particular care not to admit his ad ‘ dreltes, without the strongest proofs, ia ‘ actions as well as words, of his reform ‘ ation. I have left you, my dear, all ‘ my estate, a few trifling legacies ex
I
‘ cepted. May Heaven bless you, and ‘ give you more comfort with it than ‘ your father. Adieu I my child, be vir
* and be happy 1’
Here
IS
THE KAFPY EXTR AVAG^AN T
Here he took a tender farewell of me,
1
whilst tears flowed copiously from his aged eyes— — Sigh at the remembrance. — Within a few hours he expired, and Sir
John took pofiefiion of his estate and ef
fe<5ls for me' i who, after having taken
/
care of my deceased parent’s funeral, removed me to London, in order to dispel,
as he Said, the gloom which hung upon my teirits, and entertained me at his own house in town.
4f
I had not long remained there, before
I discovered my guardian to be a very ill
tempered man •, he was imperious to his
Servants, griping to his tenants, and a very tyrant to his amiable and accom
J W
pii Shed wife. Yet, at that time, he behaved to me not only with great complai
/
fance, but even with a Seeming tender ness and afsedion. He was, indeed, a complete difltembler.
I could
  15.9
I could now easily read the cause ot the lady’s melancholy in the deportment of her husband. One day, when we were alone together, as 1 was endeavouring to Sooth her, and to cheat her troubled Spirits; ‘ Alas! Said she, ‘ the Sorrows that ‘ have taken root in my heart, will end
I
‘ but with my being. I am indeed ob
‘ liged to you for your kind consolatory ‘ advice; but I fear it will not be long ‘ ere you will yourself Hand in need of a * comforter.’ I was much Surprised to hear this, and desired her ladyship to explain herself. ‘ Then I am Sorry, my dear,
»
said she, ‘ to inform you that I am far from ‘ thinking either your person or fortune
I
‘ Safe in Sir john’s hands. He being my husband, you will,, perhaps, imai

® gine that jealousy occasions me to, discourse thus; but I may well afilireyou ‘ that a regard for your welfare is my on
‘ ly
rv
1
ISO
‘ ly motive. Sir John, I thank him, has' ‘ cured me of all affe6lion to his person; ‘ and where there is no love, it is not ve likely that there should be any jea
‘ lousy. There was a time, indeed, when ‘ it might have given me great unealiness, ‘ on my own account, to find that he be ® flowed his regards upon another \ but
‘ those days, as I have told you, arc now * paired, and all considerations of that ‘ kind long Since vanished: : that my ‘ concern, at pfesent, turns Solely upon ‘ you. From the moment that I heard this guardianship proposed, I was in pain ‘ for the consequences which might ensue

‘ to you i and indeed I communicated ‘ my Sentiments in a letter to Mr. Selby, ‘ but receiving no answer from him, as I ‘ naturally fupposed that my friendly ad ‘ vice was slighted, and perhaps treated
y
‘ as the fuggellion of an evil mind, 1
‘ did

61
‘ did not chuse to proceed any farther in ^ the affair. But I would have you be
‘ on your guard, and conduct yourself
1
‘ very circumspectly, as you have much
‘ to fear. Farther, I think it would not
«
‘ be amiss if you were to inform me, from
* time to time, of Such particulars as may ‘ appear any way suspicious or exception ‘ able in my hulband’s behaviour towards ‘ you; and I will impart to you, in re ‘ turn, the belt counsel that I am miftress
‘ of. By Such means you may, with Hea
* ven*s blefllng, stand a chance of avoid ‘ ing the Snares that may be Spread for ‘ you. But, above all things, take care, ‘ that neither he nor any one else may ‘ perceive your fuspicions, left you run ‘ into the very dangers which you would
I
‘ wish to avoid. Forewarned, fore arm^ ‘ ed j — the rest I leave to your own pru
dencc to dictate *

i62

From that time I kept a very watchful
eye upon the knight’s condu6t, and followed So closely the friendly advice of his lady, that he durte not pretend in any respect
to incommode me during, her lifetime: : too Soon, alas! she departed
this world, an innocent viffim to her huf hand’s .cruelty. Then commenced my persecution; and from that period I dated my unhappiness,
'Sir John began now to address me in the style of a lover, and that within a very Iliort time after his lady^s death.' It became impoibble for me any longer to difsen.ble my dislike of him and his proceedings j and I declared it, perhaps too freely. He affected, however, to argue the matter with great calmness, and, as
he was a very artful man, had much to
\
say for himself, though in a wrong cause.
But
s
  1^3
But with me all his arguments availed not; for I was too well acquainted with
A
the baseness of his heart to listen to them : yet he continued perpetually to persecute me with his hateful addresses j and, at last, finding me resolute in my oppolicion, he very plainly hinted, that if I would
not consent to the terms which he pro
r
posed, I must never expect to be put in possession of my own fortune. I was af
tonilhed at this piece of affuranee, yet, determined to show this base guardian that
r •
should not shake the firmness of my resolves, ‘ Sir John Said I, ‘ t^'jay
‘ reft aftured that Iiis pr mises and threats ‘ are equally disregarded by me, and that ‘ I Hiall never be Swayed by Such considerations j but if he fecks to oppress * me by an undue, exertion of hi power, ‘ my appeal must lie to the laws of my ‘ country This Spirited answer somewhat disconcerted him •, yet it was far
from
164
from hindering him in the pursuit of his
defigh. He even locked me up in my chamber, denied me the use of pen, ink, and paper, and threatened to Send me into the remoteftpart of Wales, there to • confine me till I Should consent to become his wife. At length, finding myself thus cruelly treated, I resoived to Seek a legal
redress; and having, by promises and entreaties, prevailed on one of the domes tics to deliver a mefiage from me to Mr. Bradley (who was then married, and being come up to town with his lady, resided very near us) he came according
John
not care to refuse him.
By his advice and afiiflance, I took the proper methods to make the knight give up the charge which he had abused. Then, finding myself at liberty to chuse an other guardian, I fixed on Mr. Bradley to
discharge
  165
*
discharge that office, and Sir John TWAS
ordered to Settle with him all affairs
>
relative to the fortune of his ward.
At this time I received intelligence that a kinsman of my late mother, who
had resided for sometime in the island of
/
Martinico, was dead, and had left me money and goods to a con'iiderable value, which all my friends deemed it highly proper on many accounts, that I should go over, to take possession of in person.
To this I consented the more readily, as I had experienced, of late, little comfort in my native country. I embarked, therefore, for Martinico, under the protection
of an elderly lady, who was Mr, bradley’s near relation.
Our voyage was short and pleasant and the few passengers we had, as well as the
officers of the slip, were social and con
verfible

/
l66
verlible people j So that my time passed more agreeably than I could have expected
whilll I was at Sea. In the month
%
of May we came within sight of the if
Jand, and, leaving the Ship at anchor,
\
reached the Shore in our boats, without meeting with any accident.
.if '
« %
y
CHAP.
THE HAPPY extravadant. 167
CHAP. XXV
I .1
miss Selby concludes her History.
HAD not been many weeks upon the island, before Sir John TAR
rived there alio. Some Iharp disputes having arisen between him and Mr. Bradley, concerning my fortune, a great part of which the former sought to defraud me of) impatient of the law’s delay, and highly incensed at each other, they had recourse to their swords. My new guar dian was dangerously, (and it was supposed,
unfairly) wounded in the contell, and the knight fled to France, whence, he afterwards came hither, on accoun^
of a plantation, the profits of which had
been assigned to him by the French ministry, tor Services to be by him performed.
As Sir John went by a feigned name, I knew nothing of his arrival: but, ever
. V
unhap p
i68
unhappy in my pecuniary concerns, I wa detained by Some disputed claims, till an accident happened, which Mr. Clairvilie, 1 find, was witness to, and which might easily be snpposed to produce no Small confusion of property. It was then I un expedledly met my persecutor in marti nico, and there he met his fate.
[ ‘ Heavens!’ Said Charles, ‘ then he ‘ was the very English Knight, whose bo ‘ dy I Saw drawn from beneath a heap of ‘ ruins !*]
He was, (returned Emily.) The mifere ant, by means of bribes distributed amongst Some of my Indians, in that night
of horrors, which we have both So much
/
cause to remember, had gained admifiion
to my chamber, where he Surprised me reading i the intolerable noise of the increasing storm having fufricientiy banished
ail
  169
all thoughts of repose. His Sudden appearance affrighted me more than the tempest— — Screamed aloud at firll, indeed, my busy fancy, awakened by the dreadful roaring of the hurricane, suggested to me, that he was dead in England, and that this image of him which I beheld, was but his troubled Spirit that
i
haunted me after his decease. But he loon
proceeded to convince me that this conjecture
was vain; for he Suddenly clasped
%
me in his arms, and avowed his wicked
design of violating my challity. Again
%
I Shrieked, and used my Ilrongeft efforts to[ deliver myself from the power of the abandoned monster. Vain were my cries, as vain my ftrugglings; nohopeofres cue, and I found myself, saint, weak, and fpiritless, just on the point of becoming a victim to his brutal passion. But at that
VOL. II
I
instant
170
: HE happy extravagant.
\
instant, the whole house trembled from its foundations, and the rent walls let in a flood oslightning upon us. The ravilher, terrified, retreated, and left me in the ut mofi: disorder. I know not how I gained the street; but I soon found myself in the midst; of the Scene of ruin. There I met with Some friends, who persu aded me to Seek for shelter among the shipping; I did so, and, (notwithstanding the violence of the storm, in which many vessels were lost, and boats over Set) I got Safe on board a merchantman, which was ready to sail for England. From thence I never returned on ftiore again; but, procuring such of my things as remained, to be Sent me after the storm was over, I proceeded on the voyage in the Same ship, having left proper authorities for receiving


17 I
ing Such funis of money as had been
bequeathed to me, for which I obtained
the advance of an equivalent. My voy
%
age to England was as Speedy and prosperous as I could have willed; and, at my return, I found Mr. Bradley recovered of his wounds, and preparing to cite those who had the management of Sir John t****’s affairs, to render an account of my fortune, according to the charge which was given to the knight: but his death, and the generous disoo

lition of his cousin and Successor rendered Such a measure unnecessary. In Short, all that I could demand was paid into my new guardian’s hands, by that young gentleman, without the trouble of a pro cess; though it was certain that Sir John had dissipated more than half of my fori
2
tune;
V
172
tune and the whole of it (as you know I am come of age) is now in my own poflehion.
The gentlewoman with whom I went over to Martinico escaped the dangers of the Ilorm and earthquake, but died on her paltage to England. As to Mrs. Bradley, Ihe has ever behaved to me as a friend, and given me her friendly advice as a relation.
Thus have 1, Mr. Clairville, related to you all the adventures which I have met with Since last I parted from you. Fortune Seems now to have made her full
circle, and leads us, as it were, by the
\
hand, pointing once more to the ways of happiness.
Long and weary has been our pilgrimage j and often have we been tolled
to

173
to and fro in a troublesome world. May we now at length reach the harbour of peace 1 In the mean time, let us be thankful for our present lot, and endeavour to probt by that experience which we have so dearly bought.
3
CHAP.
174
C H A P. XXVI
A Rencounter — Its consequences
Journey to France.
A
R. Clairville listened with the greatest
attention to the history of his « beloved miftress, and vas deeply affeded with her relation of the diftrefies which ftie had gone through, and which contributed to increase his love for this most amiable of her Sex, who now declared' her resolution of givins: her hand in mar
- o
ii.ige where her heart had long Since been bestowed.
At this time letters arrived from Mr. Amyand, then at St. chriftopher’s, fou liciiing his friend to come over and Settle there, in which cafe he engaged to, prov

cure him a genteel appointment. But


175
our hero had now no inclination to embrace this offer. He now looked on his
I
former Sufferings as a dream that was pass, and began already to anticipate his approaching Selicity.
Yet many were the troubles which he was Still doomed to experience; and these at last so completely fixed his volatile genius, as to render him capable of enjoying in the highest degree that bliss which he had learned to deserve.
As he was walking one evening along a bye ftreet in Westminster, he jollied, by chance, against a gentleman very richly dressed, who Seemed much offended at • ^
the accident. Hereupon, endeavouring to apologise for his careleifness, ‘ Ha! ‘ Clairville, by my soul, * said the Stranger in French, ‘ I am glad I have met you.
I 4
Mon
1^6
*
‘ moiisieur. Do you not remember Ma ‘ dame the marchioness de RAND
-- -- ^ whom you So base
the count de V
‘ ly designed to injure.
‘ The marchioness, ’ Said Charles, ‘ I ‘ have formerly known : but as to the ‘ design of injuring the count, which you,
‘ are so bold to charge me with, I utter
‘ ly disavow it, and have a right to de
‘ mand by what authority I am now taxed
‘ with Such intentions, convinced as I am
/
‘ of the uprightness of my own heart.
‘ These arguments, however specious, ri tlihd the count, ‘ will not pass at this ‘ time i nor can I be convinced that you are any other than a villain. If you
«
‘ would not have me think you a coward iikevvife, draw, and prove yourself that ‘ wayjatkad, worthy of my Sword •, for
‘ know
 , 177
I
‘ know 1 am the very man to whom you ‘ have given So much cause for resent ‘ ment.
r
‘ Draw !’ echoed Charles, ‘ upon what ‘ quarrel would monsieur the count have ‘ me treat him as an enemy, and un ‘ flieath my weapon in this public, place
* opposition to reason, and the laws of ^ my country P
‘ Upon the quarrel which I have al ‘ ready mentioned, the quarrel of the ‘ marchioness de which you once
‘ thought fit to espouse; or, if that mo
* Should, by this time, have lost its ‘ weight with you, draw to defend your ‘ self, or on this spot surrender up your ‘ worthless life
these words were accompanied by Such? anions as proved the Speaker too much
I 5
m.
/

in earnest: to be trifled with. In the combatants engaged furiously, till Some gentlemen,, pafsing by that way, interposed, an, d parted them, a circum
fiance which did not happen till the French nobleman was deeply and dangerously wounckd *, in consequence o which his antagonifc retired in Some con fusion, after having committed' him to the care of a Surgeon..
V



* ■



C H A P.

.d9
CHAP. XXVII
Charles arrives at Paris — .Demarkable
Story of a French Gentleman.
H E next morning our adventurer received Secret intelligence that the
o
count’s life was in danger; and in conse quence of miss selby’s and Mrs. williams’s earned solicitations, he was at lad prevailed on to consult his Safety, and to .withdraw himself to the continent, till the idlie of this affair Should be determined.

Thus were his hopes damped again
and a fredi Scene of troubles opened on
his view. He was now to leave his love
unhappy, and his affairs unsettled, while
he retired for refuge to a foreign coun
#
try. But he had ever been the sport of
Fcr
18o

Fortune; and there was the greatell northeast celtity that he Should bear with patience tilde evils, which it was not possible for him to avoid.
Alter a very expeditious journey to Dover, he embarked for France, and went dtrediy for Paris, where he was entertained at the house of one Madame d

Saligne •, there he remained for some
• •

O
time unknowing and unknown, impatiently for tidings from England.

'whilsc our adventurer resided in this city, he had often remarked at a little
coffeehouse in the suburbs,, he
/
frequented merely on account of its obscurity, a tall, meagre Frenchman, who spoke the englkli tongue fuently, and
Seemed to be a person of undeilanding
and

ii
and address. He was conhant in his at tendance there, and was usually accompanied by an Iridi gentleman,, who Seemed to be his inseparable friend and companion

But Charles milted them both
Suddenly? and a few nights after was Surprised to hear the Frenchman, in a Supplicating tone addressing these words to a gentleman just stepping out of his carriage : ‘ For the Virgin mary’s Sake,
C sir!___if It be but a Single louis d’or,. to
‘ keep me from perilhing.’ To which request he received an absolute denial, accompanied with Such menaces as ob
X
liged him to withdraw. Mr. Clairville, moved with companion, (recollecting his voice) stepped up to him, and begged, in a polite manner, to know the particu
• ft
lars of his diftressful Situation. ‘ My
‘ circumstances
w
i8'2

^ circumstances, Monsieur replied the other, ‘ are indeed very deplorable. If * you chuse to withdraw to a iess public ‘ place, I will acquaint you with them,, ‘ and allb with my name and family.’ In consequence of this proposal, ^ they retired
to a house hard by, and he began as fol
«

‘ My name is Dubois, and my father ‘ is a gentleman of rank and fortune in ‘ Bordeaux, At the age of nineteen I ‘ fell in love with the daughter of a trade! ‘ man who resided in that city. She was ‘ beautiful and virtuous, and pofselfed ‘ many fine accomplishments; but my ‘ father could not endure the matching ‘ me with one below me in rank: we ‘ therefore Hole a wedding, though not ‘ without great reluctance on her part.
‘ I de

*■ I depended much upon my address, by ‘ which I promised myself that I Should reconcile all parties. But in this I over
‘ rated my own abilities my angry pa
* was inexorable, and absolutely dis ‘ owned and dilinherited me. It is true, ® my wife’s father never fussered us to ‘ know want while it was in his power to ‘ provide for us. But, within three ‘ years, the good man failed in business, ^ and, dying insolvent, we were left to ‘ Ihift for ourselves. All the doors of ‘ preferment, in the genteeler Stations of ‘ life, were Shut against me by my fa
* means, and I was not acquainted
I
‘ with any bulinefs whereby I might earn ‘ a livelihood. At this time I was advised to have recourse to my pen, and - accordingly setting myself to work as
‘ an
1^4

‘ an author, in a few months I completed « a dramatic performance which was just ‘ on the point of being brought on the ‘ Ifage, when an uncle of mine got it prohibited, and all our family publicly'

‘ declared themselves my enemies. The ‘ same person who advised me to this ex
‘ pedient, now counselled me to go over ‘ to England, as I had formerly learned ‘ the language of that country, which
‘ had been represented to me as the seat
/
‘ of genius and learning, *
‘ Thither I accordingly withdrew my ‘ fejf, after having a Second time tried ‘ my fortune in my own country, in a ‘ political pamphlet, which met with as
* bad success as my play had before.
‘ When I arrived at this promised uto pia, I fet about an Englifti. version of
‘ ^1:
  189
‘ my labours; and first I turned my tra ‘ gedy into as elegant poetry as I was capable, in that tongue, and, having
‘ Iliowed it to Some persons of known ‘ judgement, I presented it, under their
‘ patronage, to the m -- -- -- r of the old
‘ theatre, who, aster much waiting upon, ‘ declared his willingness to accept it. I ‘ now thought myself Secure of Success;
I
‘ but I found there was a power in this
\
‘ country as arbitrary in these matters ‘ as any that I had hitherto experienced.
‘ In short the L C thought fit to forbid the representation of a piece here, that ‘ had already been prohibited in France.
; r
‘ I was cruelly: disappointed; but this
f
‘ was not the only instance I met with of *
the exercise of partial \prerogathve.^ un ‘ der the Specious pretext of conjiitutional
Y,
‘ governmend ^
i86

* government. For my own part, I waj ‘ now forced to glean a precarious fub
^ fiftence by writing occasional essays, till
‘ a work of Some consequence, which I
‘ had in hand, could be completed. Af
‘ ter all, I Should have found it a very
‘ hard matter to have Supported myself
‘ and my wife (who came over with me),
‘ in the interim, had it not been for the
‘ kind aflillance of ray countryman, who.
‘ fir ft advised me to turn author. He
‘ also introduced me to the acquaintance
‘ of Mr. Malone, the Irifti gentleman,
‘ whom you have So frequently Seen in
* my company.
I
‘ At last, having finiftied my piece, ^ I got it presented by a person not un ‘ known to the literary world (who, al ‘ though he was not a native of England, ‘ was well acquainted with its customs)
‘ to.
  I 8/
‘ to a bookseller in the city. This honejl ‘ tradesman, after having kept me near ‘ three months in fuspence, refused my ‘ work, the plan of which, however, he ‘ adopted, and with the assiilance of my
* learned friend, published the heads of
* it under another name. There was no
‘ redress for this evil; and, as a foreign
‘ er, I found I had litrle hopes of succeed
^ in political writings. At this time ^ my worthy countryman died, and Mr.
‘ Malone, (after I had met with Some ‘ farther ill treatment from this nation of ‘ philosophers) found it no hard matter to ‘ persuade me to return to France, whi* ‘ there he was going,
‘ He here introduced me to Some of
N.
‘ my countrymen with whom he had be ‘ come acquainted in a former tour to Pa ** risa but a few days Since he fell, in
‘ ren
188

rencounter with a Stranger *, with him; ‘ my hopes are also fallen. I was re
^ to aflc an alms of my own un ‘ cle you have been a witness of his ‘ behaviour. One hope alone remains: ‘ my deceased mother was related to a ‘ lady of quality, whose uncle had been ‘ one of the sponsors at my birth. She
* has expressed her dislike of my father s ‘ cruelty. I will throw myself at her
* feet, and implore her protection. If ‘ you, Sir, will accompany me thither, ‘ your presence may do me honour, and
* perhaps tend to the furtherance of my
‘ Suit.’
Here the French gentleman left off
Ipeakin
O’
and Mr. idairville, having
made him a trifling present, promised to go with him to his relation’s the fucceed ins day.
CHAP.
*

I 8g
CHAP. XXVIII
Mr. Clairville meets with the marchio ness again — General Observations on the French.
H A R L E S, according to his promise, went with the diftreift author
%
to visit his noble relation, who was eali ]y persuaded to grant him her favour and assistance. But how great was our hero’s surprise, when in the perfin of this lady
V
he beheld the marchioness de She took care to engage his Stay, while her cousin, perceiving that they were acquainted, withdrew and left them together.
When
alone,
Well
monsieur, ’ said the lady smiling, ‘ what * brought you to France? Are you come ‘ hither to settle, and have you at lall altered your opinion with regard to that
‘ Liberty,
190
‘ Liberty, which the English So blindly ‘ adore? — ‘ Not in the least, Madam, replied he, ‘ but I fear I have been So un ‘ happy as to give my enemies an op ‘ portunity of calling in quellion my ‘ right to enjoy it.’ — ‘ France then is ‘ very much obliged to you for your com ‘ pany, ’ said the marchioness, ‘ and /> ‘ in particular, return you my fincercft ‘ thanks for this your unexpected visit.’
‘ I know not. Madam, ’ returned Charles,
/
‘ how much I may deserve your lady ‘ fhip’s thanks for my excurlioni but ‘ I alture you, it was occasioned by a ‘ rencounter with the count de V —, ‘ who now lies dangerously wounded in
* London. — ‘ Jesu Maria 1’ exclaimed the French Lady, ‘ and have you then
* at last, avenged my cause, and punish
■
  II
>
* ed my enemy, unworthily as I behaved
* to you ?*
I
Mr. Clairville here interrupted the mar chioness in her transports, and insorm ed her of every circumstance relative to the Ilory. When he had finished his narration, ‘ Well, monlieur, * Said die, I ‘ mull equally admire your Spirit and
* Sincerity : — I entreat your pardon for ‘ my treatment of you in England. But ‘ indulge me with your company here, ‘ and I will endeavour to make you Some ‘ amends. Should the count die, it may ‘ now be in my power to Hop his friends ‘ from doing anything to your prejudice ‘ in either kingdom : and, be assured, all
‘ that I can I will do to Serve you.
Our hero was much pleased with the latter part of this discourse, and decerned
.192
edit the grateful presage of his happy return to England.. He already began to enjoy in idea his love, his fortune, and his friends, as if he had waited but for the firll fair wind to waft him over to his native country.
CHAP
  i93
CHAP. XXIX
Some Striflures on the French — A Conversation with the marchioness de
I
U L L of these notions, he was frequent in his visits at the marcbion
ess’s, who every day received him more
and more kindly, and introduced him to a great deal of good company, and to all
the pleasures and diversions of France.
Meanwhile the wounded count lay dangerously ill in England, and Emily, and the rest of his friends, advised him, by all means, to stay where he was till
his perfect recovery. The politeness of our continental neighbours, which held its meridian in Paris, however devoid of sincerity, was yet extremely pleasing
vol. JI
K
to

194 "rhe HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT.
to our hero, whole volatile temper was, in genera], very agreeable to them; yet, in the end, he found them a people who would afford him much tall but little regartiy a great deal of complaisance, but
\
very little friendship Some few worthy hearts excepted : and Such there will always be in all climates, and under all governments. It is, perhaps, a true ob
r
servation that has been made upon the
CC
That
99
French by a celebrated author,
they are the hest people by nature *, and by
$
art, policy, and education, unquestionably the worst in the world.
Charles, in Paris still, continued to
make himself as happy as he cculd; and to visit the marchioness of R,
till, at last, he perceived that Ihe began
to
  i95
to entertain a passion for him j and Saw
his error, when it was too late to recede.
/
She tried every art to fix his affedions, and Spread all her charms to catch his view, but in vain : volatile as he was, he was now unalterably emily’s, by choice, by gratitude, by vows, and every tie which could bind human nature.

But the marchioness was not to be denied : if she had fixed her mind on any
pursuit, she Seldom left off till she attained
\
stand this was Supremely true of her love.
One evening that lady thus addressed him: ‘ Monsieur, ’ Said she, ‘ your com ‘ pany has ever been agreeable to me; ‘ but it is now high time to know on
K 2
! what
/
1^6 THE HAPPY extriwagant.
‘ what terms I am, for the future, to re ‘ ceive your visits ‘ Oii what terms, ‘ Madam, ’ returned Clairville, surprised!
V what may your ladyhiip mean? I hope ‘ I have never intruded my company
when it was unwelcome.’
Far from
* it, monsieur j but you affect not to un
‘ derftand me. The world in general
‘ is but too apt to censure people in ‘ high life j and we cannot be too cau
‘ tious, of our condudl.’i — ‘ Cautious!
ft
‘ madam — Well may I hope 1 never ‘ took any undue liberties wtih the mar
‘ lioness dc R****’^« Still, Sir, you
%,
‘ wilfully mistake me — I meant not to ‘ accuse you; quite the contrary. Per ‘ haps there might not be any great oc
f casion for so distant a respedf as you
‘ have
  i97
‘ have ever shown to me. But this was ‘ by no means my intention in thus ad
^ you. I thought the English
‘ were indeed gallant men; and I am
‘ Sorry to find it otherwise, especially in * the person of Mr. Clairville. Am I ‘ not yet underllood ^ Well, for the jpre
Sent, then, we will change the discoiirse f and, accordingly, turned off the affair with a true French levity.
Mr. Clairville, however, was far from being pleased with this conversation, as
9
fearing it might be a prelude to Something of a more Serious nature; but he
could not now Suddenly drop his visits
*
any degree of propriety.
K 3
As
\
198
As he expected, So it happened; for
/
the next time he Saw the iiiarchioness, as Soon as they were alone together, She took an opportunity of discoursing with him
again upon the Subject.. then begged his excuse to retire Sora few mim

nutes, and returned again with a dagger
in her hand. ‘ Now, Mr. Clairville, ’ Said
/
k
She, ‘ I am come at once to bring our ‘ affair to an eclaircilfement. If you
r
‘ mean to deceive me, prepare to lee me,
‘ this inifant, plunge my poniard in my
• '
‘ bosom.’ — ‘ Deceive you : Heavens I
?______
‘ Madam, what can you mean ‘ Or, wherein have you trusted me, ‘ that you can fear a deceit.’ — ‘ Mon ‘ Sieur, * Said She, in a Solemn tone, ‘ it ‘ is now too late to trifle. After all that
  i99
I
‘ has palled here, and in England, need ‘ 1 tell you that I love you ?’ — ‘ Love
am!
‘ me, madam, unworthy as I ‘ Yes, you, unworthy as you mull be, if
‘ you do not return my pafilon.’ — ‘ I am ‘ Sorry, Madam, ’ Said Charles, ‘ that wc
‘ fhonld both be thus unfortunate. I ‘ esteem, I respedf, but I cannot love ‘ you — ‘ You cannot love: and do you * tell me So? Why, then, have you made ‘ your visits So frequent here ‘ ged, madam, by your commands, and
‘ my own desire of So agreeable Society ‘ as I 'must needs meet with where the ‘ marchioness de presided— — ^

‘ At this time, ’ cried the lady, ‘ you
‘ may Spare your compliments: Sincerity ‘ is the Englilli mode; and, no doubt,
K 4 ' ‘ becomes
Ur
200
* becomes you bell. Tell me, then, am *' I really disagreeable in your eyes ‘ Far from it. Madam; I look withad ‘ miration on the marchioncss de ‘ beauties j but never can I give an ex ‘ iled fugitive to her arms.’ — ‘ You are
‘ induftriousjmonsieur Clairville, in find ‘ ing out excuses to avoid me, ’ Said the ‘ French lady. — ‘ By no means. Madam, * replied our adventurer; ‘ but I would
‘ have you consider what you owe to your ‘ family, and to yourself.’ — ‘ My family, * laid Ihe, ‘ is, in this case, a trifling cont

«
‘ Sideration j and to myself I mofl; un
‘ doubtedly owe my own happiness: but
‘ I See you are prejudiced against: me.’
‘ So far from it. Madam, that I would
‘ do anything, consiftent with virtue or
‘ reason.
  201
‘ reason, to secure your ladyfliip’s peace
‘ Is it then. Sir, inconliftent with virtue
‘ orreafon to love me? You are ^ Here, ' then, too cruel man: Behold
‘ this breast; here will I strike, and end,
‘ at once, my misery and my being: *
and. So saying, Ihe loosened her robes,
and displayed her Snowy bosom full upon
his view. He hastened to prevent the
blow file meant not Should take place,
and, leading her gently by the hand.
Seated her in a chair, where she burlled^
instantly, into a flood of tears, and tried
every art, that woman could invent, to move him j — but all these excited only his
pity. Riling, at lafl:, with all that fury
which once before Charles had Seen to
K 5
agi tate
202
agitate her breast j ‘ I See, * Said Ihe, ‘ but ‘ too plainly, that I am slighted for ana

"^*^1''* “• beware; provoke me not ‘ too far; — - if you do, inevitable ruin
‘ mull be the consequence, even though
I myself should be involved in it
The fugitive still endeavoured to sooth her, but in vain; Ihe afledled now a Sullen Silence, till he prepared to quit her,
T
when Ihe uttered, in a low and Solemn tone, ‘ It is well, Mr. Clairville; this
‘ Second time you have triumphed over
» \
‘ my weakness; but, depend on it, it ‘ Shall be the last. You will hear from ‘ me. Soon
Our hero departed very pensive, and could Scarcely sleep that night for thinking


03
ing on the marchioness; but it was not with Love, but with Horror., To
Such repose, however, as he could get, we mull leave him, for a while, and conclude ths chapter.

CHAP.
A'
204
CHAP.
The marchioness’s Revenge, and its Consequences — Ah Instance of English Courage and Generosity.
N
C .DH I N G, it has often been observed, by the wiseft men, is more to be dreaded than the resentment of a
slighted woman. The weaker sex, in general, when they imagine themselves contemned for their want of power to revenge an injury, or when they are wounded in the moil sensible part, their
vanity, rouse themselves up, terrible in vengeance, at the Same time that they
a
generally bring their plans to bear with
ail the contrivance of a Machiavel. Yet
*
Some, indeed, there are, whose gentle
nature
/■
  io
nature renders them strangers to the rough passions which make the heart a Seat of
k
rude commotion; these will Sooth, where the others will storm: : will Sink beneath an injury, rather than revenge it. these are angels of comfort. Wear them, wherever ye find them, ye gallant and ye
brave *, wear them, as precious jewels, next your hearts, and consefs that Heaven never made, in its universal creation, a creature So truly amiable as a virtuous and gently tempered woman.
But to return to our history. The marchioness de R had, amongst the
train of lovers who bowed at her shrine,
a gentleman of Eltramadura, of the name
of Alvarado; he was one of those who would have been the lall in her thoughts
for

2o6
✓
/
for a husband, *, Ilie retained him in her Service, in order to keep all around her in awe; for the Spaniard inherited the true Spirit of his country; and if his miftress did but frown on any person, ’ he was ready to hazard his life and fortune
by dispatching, or causing him to be dispatched. To this gentleman fly applied, in her present vexation. ‘ Signor ‘ Don Alvarado, ’ Said She, ‘ 1 have a fa ‘ your to alk of you— — ‘ * said the amorous Spaniard, ‘ my life and ‘ k)ul j they are' both at the service of ‘ your divinity, ’ The marchioness then began to work upon his passions by a long preconcerted tale of injuries received from Mr. Clairville, whom she represented as a
wretch who long fubfifted^by her charity;
and

  2o7
and had the assurance to aspire to her love j and finding her reject his proposals
with disdain, nay. She even went So far as
/
to hint that he had uttered Something like
I
a threat of bearing her, by force, to England. Having told his name, and described his person, and place of abode j ‘ Now, Signor’* said she, ‘ I depend on
* you This was enough for the efire maduran. Taking two or three long strides across the room, he said, with a low bow, ‘ It is enough, by tomorrow ‘ this time, Madame the marchioness
‘ Shall not have such an enemy alive.
♦
lie then withdrew, to concert measures ■ for his fupposed rival’s destruction, and left his miftress in high Spirits, laughin
or
at kis credulity, and applauding her own
1 •
poli
Zo  ,
f
political brain, which had thus, in all probability, found a method of ridding herfejf, at once, of the offending person, and her ill beloved suitor, of whom she
began to grow weary.

As Mr. Clairville fullained, by all accounts, the cfearadler of a gentleman, the Don did not think it would conduce
to his credit, pr Safety, to have him alfas linated, and especially in such a place as
Paris, where points of honour are generally So much regarded *, and he did not care to defy him publicly to the combat, left: he might, by Some means, chance to miss his opportunity pf performing his promise to his mistress: :
therefore took the medium between two
I
extremes, and resolved to attend his supposed.

  20g
posed rival’s return, through a narrow court, to his lodgings. Accordingly, he chose his ground; and, having polled himseif to the bell advantage he could, with his Sword drawn, and concealed beneath his cloak, he waited till Mr. clair ville, little dreaming of a rencounter, was palling close to him, when he fudi

denly started from his ambush, and bade
/
the intended victim of his rage, whom he called by name, defend himself. There
is no wonder if Charles, already banished from his native country, on account of a rencounter like this, started at the Sudden challenge, and demanded who it was that thus accosted him. ‘ They call me Signor Don Alvarado, said the Spaniard
‘ Then I tell you, Signor Don Alva
‘ rado.
210  ,
‘ rado, that I know you not, and would ‘ much rather retire to my bed, than em ‘ ploy myself here in midnight brav/ls.
‘ It Seems you are not ignorant of my
* name, and place of abodeto*mor
* row you may seek me, if you have any ‘ affair with me •, though I protest I northeast ‘ ver Saw nor heard of you before. But
i
‘ you have both Seen and heard of the ‘ marchioness de It is in her
‘ cause I come
The marchioness
‘ again! exclaimed Charles. Nay, then ‘ my ruin is Sealed.’ — ‘ Come, Sir, no ‘ words, * Said the Spaniard, throwing off his cloak; ‘ we Shall, probably, be be tter ‘ acquainted before we part: ’ and had Scarcely finished the Sentence before he
assaulted Mr. Clairville so furiously, that
all
  21 i
all his q^ill could not prevent his receiving a wound in the right breast j yet continuing the fight with a true Lnglifh courage, he returned it, with interell, and laid, in the end, his antagonist, disarmed,

and bleeding at his feet.
What hin
‘ ders now, ’ Said he, bending over the vanauillied assailant, ‘ but that I take
jt '
‘ your forfeit life, and send you, at once, ‘ into another world, to answer for the
‘ loss of it, and perhaps of mine too? * But I Scorn to treat you like what you ‘ have made yourself. There is your ‘ Sword j I will send you present affift ‘ ance : but remember, for the future,
‘ Don Alvarado, that the character of an
«
‘ assassin mull always refle<51: dishonour ‘ upon a gentleman
CDA P.
212
\
CHAP. XXXI
The Sequel of the Duel.
/
U R hero now made all possible expedition home, where he Soon procured
proper affillance, both for himself,
and Alvarado; but the wounds of the
latter, though they bled much, proved no ways dangerous, while his own seemed
to presage much more trouble. He was obliged to keep his room, and heartily
vexed at the affair, of which he did not
#
chuse to send any account to England,
t
left it ftiould prejudice even his friends
against him, and lead them to believe that he was of a turbulent and quarrelsome
disposition. But as there were not wanting those who did it for him, and

  213
/
related the whole affair in a quite different way than it really happened, or even
than he could have imagined it would
ever have been represented, his want of confidence in his friends, in this cafe, cost him much subsequent uneafmefs;
for he was soon given to understand, that the affair was known in England, and, indeed, was much Surprised at the odd hints thrown out upon it in a letter from Mrs. Williams; and still more so at not hearing, as usual, from his Emily : but while he was consulting what measures to take, to come at the bottom of this myf
r
terious affair, an event happened, which put it completely out of his power. For
no Sooner was he well enough recovered
€
to go about his affairs, than he was
Seized,
1

214
Seized, at his own door, by the king’s guard, and conveyed prisoner to the bas tile, without fb much as knowing what
he was accused of; though, on alking
who were his accusers, the officer named
«
two of the marchioness de r****’s friends,
\
\
the riddle was soon Solved. Having obtained the favour of feeing an old acquaintance, he prevailed with him to write to the ambassador the State of the
cafe, and to pray him to reprefentj’t to
/
the French court. This was accordingly done, and, in a few days, his accusers not Supporting their charge, he was released; when the first person who met and congratulated him, on his liberty restored, was his old friend Mr. Amyand;
O
West
dies, the veltel put in to France, as it
was
  2i5
was time of peace between the two nations. He told him, that he had heard of his confinement since his arrival, and had laboured in his cause.
He invited him to a house that he had hired for a month, which time he intended to stay in Paris, and presented
him to his new married lady, in whom our adventurer, to his great aftonifii
merit, recognised the person of Miss
/
It is not easy to express his allo nilhment*, but the lady, who was no Ilranger to the cause of it, thus addrefsed
the company.
‘ This gentleman, who now views me ‘ with so much Surprise, saw me, to all ‘ appearance, dead, when in that ter
‘ rible
2i6
‘ rible storm about twelve months Since
^ Martinico, my unhappy brother and ‘ myself Sought refuge among the Ship
‘ ping. Our boat overset, and he, go
‘ ing under the vessels, was immediately ‘ drowned, but I was born up on the ‘ buoyant waves, and floated to a great ‘ distance from the Shore, where a Snow,
‘ then setting sail for St, chriftopher’s, ‘ took me up, senseless; and having, with ‘ great care, brought me to myself, when
* I recovered I found myself Several
‘ leagues from Martinico, the greatest ‘ part of the principal town being left,
‘ as I was informed, a mere heap of ru
/ ■
‘ I suffered myself to be carried to ‘ St. chriftopher’s, as remembering that
‘ I had a kinsman there, in good citcum
‘ stances.

  21'/
‘ fiances. When we arrived, I was ac ‘ cordingly received with the warmest
‘ friendship and affection j and it was at ‘ his holise that Mr. Amyand first beheld ‘ me and addressed himself to me as a ‘ lover. But it was a long time before I ‘ could bring myself to listen favourably
‘ to his fuit, so deep an impression had
‘ you made upon my heart. At lafl,
#
‘ however, 1 yielded to his solicitations,
‘ and he took me to his arm?, though ‘ with a fortune far inferior to that which
‘ I might have boasted when first Mr.
#
‘ Clairville knew me. And now, ’ (taking her hufband’s hand, and reclining her fair face tenderly upon his bosom, ‘ here is my proteftor, and my only hope, ‘ amidst my misfortunes in this troublous ‘ world
vol. II
L
Here
2i8
Here the lady ended her narration. And now Charles, receiving intelligence
that the French count was out of danger, resolved to revilit his native country, whither Mr. and Mrs. Amyand also pur posed, within a few weeks, to return themselves j and, having been acquainted with his courtship of Emily, said Smiling, they hoped to arrive there early enough to be present at his nuptials.
CHAP
  219
CHAP. XXXII
Charles returns to England — true lock married — Mr. colville’s Courtship
renewed — Reflections on Expectation.
\
A
S Soon as our adventurer landed in England, he hailed towards London, and, being arrived there, went di recily to Mr. bradley’s, where he was Surprised to hear that miss Selby, who had for a long time resided at that house, was retired into the country.
e’rom thence he proceeded to his old acquaintance Mrs. Williams, who confirmed the truth of what he had been told,
adding, that Some ftiange flories had been related of him and the French marchioness de to his regard for
L 2
whom
f
220
whom all the troubles he met with abroad were falsely attributed.
It is casy to imagine that Mr. clair ville used his bell endeavours to refute such opinions as had been conceived in consequence of these false tales : he wrote likewise to his Emily upon this Subject. Mrs. "Williams also wrote in his favour, though She concealed from him the true reason of her friend’s retirement.
The young lady received these epistles,
and read them with the highest sa tissaftion, as they convinced her of the uprightness of his heart and the Sincerity
of his afsedtion.
Mr. Truelock, who met with great fuccess in his business, being now inclined to marry, chose miss Mariana
TKS HAPPY EXTRAVAGANT, 221
Barclay for a consort, though he was fully acquainted with the Ilory of her misfortunes and her filter was married to a worthy baronet, with whom Ihe lives at this time, bellowing and beloved.
miss Selby came to town with all possible expedition, and a joyful meeting
between the two lovers ensued. She now informed our hero that, during his absence,
his former rival Colville had effrontery enough to renew his troublesome
addresses to her, to get rid of which die had withdrawn herself into the country, and not in order to avoid her faithful lover, as he had at first supposed.
And now the wedding day was fixed, at such a distance of time as might give Mr. and Mrs. a^^yand, and several other of their friends, an opportunity of being present at the ceremony.
L 5
It
222
It is a common observation, that nothing makes the lagging hours pafs So tediously away, as the fuiferanee of present
pain, or the expectation of approaching pleasure. — Perhaps this might well be adduced as a proof of the opinion held by some“ “what we call Time is no
more than an apparent something arbitrarily measured by internal ideas and ex --
s
ternal motion \ whence it is not impoitible but that an infecl of a day may enjoy [ideally or within itself a term, equivalent to the age of man.’*.,
Whatever be the truth of the foregoing maxim, it is certain that our hero’s ideas, at this juncture outran the almanac, yet the interval of time was Spent in for da converse amongst his friends; and he had be Sides the comfortable hope of enjoying
life the more completely, by having

223
ing So early experienced the vicissitudes of
Fortune.
For from the great book of
the World he had learned, in many a painful talk, such leflbns of self knowledge as were likely to become useful to him in after times.
P A F.



224
CHAP. XXXIII
Mr. clairville’s Wedding, and happy Estate— —
T last the long willed for day arrived; Mr. and Mrs. Amyand joined their friends in London before the
time appointed ♦, and all things were prepared for the celebration of the marriage.

bridegroom proceeded.
The happy
in the highest l].)irits, to the altar, and there received from the worthy Mr.
Bradley the hand of his Emily, which he elleemed the greatest blessing upon earth.
She appeared that day more charming than ever j — a glow like the blush of the
morning overspread her lovely cheek, and
her
  225
her bright eyes Sparkled with an added lustre.
Rich, Ihining white, inwoven with hiver flowers, arrayed her angel form *, and her fine hair, which was disposed in the most natural order, was adorned with glittering gems, in form and manner of a rural garland j — a firing of pearls heaved on her panting bread, whose Snowy w’hitenefs Seemed to eclipse their beauty. Such was her air and grace as might have well become the Paphian Queen. A thousand little loves Sported in her eyes, and ambufhed in the fine treflfes of her Shining locks. All eyes were fixed upon the youthful pair; every one blefsed them, and pronounced them happy.j
Amongst all the females invited to the marriage feafl, Emily shone with Superior
Charles viewed her all the day
with
•f
226

with a fond delight, and at night embraced her with transport. His weary pilgrimage now ended, he promised himself
a Solid and lalting happiness with his virtuous and beautiful bride.
Mr. Colville married a rich merchant’s
4
daughter, whole ill temper was to him a perpetual Source of unealiness, on which
t
account they have mutually agreed upon a Separation.
Lord V
returning from his
travels, and having been too familiar with a girl, a little against her consent, married her, to prevent being prosecuted
j
for a rape •, and Ihe proves So excellent a
N
wife, that it is doubtful which would
have been the better choice, the woman or the gallows.
The
%

227
The marchioness de mad with
vexation, retired into a convent, where
fly purposed to end her days. — Mils Nancy Maynard became a prostitute, and died for want in the streets of London.
Mr. Clairville now lives happy with his amiable Emilia, in whom he finds an obedient wife, a gentle friend, and a refined and sensible companion.
0
Thus concludes the History of Charles Clairville, esq; as far as it has come to our knowledge. If his adventures have appeared any ways striking, they may perhaps, in some measure, prove useful also, •, to that well-known maxim, by which men Sometimes make the experience of others their own. If
this
228

this should be the case, and if any one
should find himself profitably amused, while he peruses these sheets, the intent of
the Editor will not be entirely frustrated, nor will he deem the time bellowed on
the work wholly thrown away.
FINIS,
\
