 

FAMILIAR
LETTERS
BETWEEN THE
Principal Characters
IN
DAVID SIMPLE
And Some Others.
To which is added,
A VISION.
By the Author of
DAVID SIMPLE.
INTWOVOLUMES. VOL. I.
LONDON:
Printed for the AUTHOR :
And Sold by A. M i L L a r, opposite Katharine street in the Strand. M.DCC.XLVII.

( ih)
PREFACE;
Written by a Friend of the Author.
TH E Taste of the Public, with regard to Epistolary Writing, having been much vitiated by Some modern Authors, it may not be amiss to premise Some Short matter concerning it in this Place, that the Reader may not expect another Kind of Entertainment than he will meet with in the following Papers, nor impute the author’s destgned Deviation from the A 2 common
IV The P R E F A C E. common Road, to any Mistake or Error. ^
Those Writings which are called Letters, may be divided into Sour clastes. Under the first class may be ranged those Letters, as well antientas modern, which have been written by Men, who have filled up the principal Characters on the Stage of lise, upon great and memorable Occasions. these have been always esteemed as the most valuable Parts of hiptory, as they are not only the most authentic Memorials of Facts, but as they Serve greatly to illustrate the true Character of the v/riter, and do in a manner introduce the Person himself to our Acquaintance.
A
????????????
A Second Kind owe their Merit not to Truth, but to Invention; Such are the Letters which contain ingenious Novels, or Shorter Tales, either pathetic or humorous; these bear the Same Relation to the Former, as Romance doth to true History; and, as the former may be called Short Histories, So may these be styled Short Romances.
I N the next Branch may be ranked those Letters, which have past between Men of Eminence in the Republic of Literature. Many of these are in high Estimation in the learned World, in which they are considered as having equal Authority to that, which the political World allows to those of the first Class.
A 3 Besides
VI The P R E F A C E.
Besides these three Kinds of Letters, which have all their several Merits, there are two more, with which the Moderns have very plentifully supplied the World, tho’ I Shall not be very profuse in my Encomiums on either: These are Love letters, and Letters of Conversation, in which last are contained the private Affairs of Persons of no con sequence to the Public, either in a political or learned Consideration, or indeed in any Consideration whatever.
With these two Kinds of Letters the French Language in particular so vastly abounds, that it would employ most of the leisure Hours of Life to read them all; nay, I believe indeed, they are the principal Study
The P RE F A C E. VII Study of many of our fine Gentlemen and Ladies, who learn that Language.
And hence such Readers have learned the critical phrases of a familiar easy Style a concise epiflolary Style c. and these they apply to all Letters whatever.
Now, from Some polite modern Performances, written I suppose by this Rule, I much doubt, whether these French Readers have any just and adequate Notion of this epiflolary Sty with which they are So enamoured. To say the truth, I question whether they do not place it entirely in Short, abrupt, unconnected Periods; a Style so easy, that any Man may write it, and which, one would imagine, it must be very A 4 difficult,
VIII The P R E F A C E. difficult to procure any Person to read.
T o such Critics therefore I would recommend Ovid, ^ who was perhaps the ablest Writer of les Letters Galantes that ever lived. In his Art amandi they will find the following Rule,
— prcefens ut videare loqui. viz. that these Letters Should pre serve the Style of Conversation; and in his Epistles they yviw see this excellently illustrated by Example. But if we are to form our Idea of the Conversation of some modern Writers from their Letters, we Shall have, I am afraid, a very indifferent Opinion of both.
But in reality, this Style of Conversation is only proper at least only necessary
The P R E F A C E. IX necessary to these, which I have called Letters of Conversation; and is not at all requisite, either to Letters of Business, which in aster ages make a Part of History, or to those on the Subject of Literature and Criticism.
Much less is it adapted to the Novel or Story writer; for what difference is there, whether a Tale is related this or any other way? And sure no one will contend, that the epistolary Style is in general the most proper to a Novelist, or that it hath been used by the best Writers of this Kind.
IT is not my Purpose here to write a large Dissertation on Style in general, nor to assign what is proper to the Historian, what to the Romance,
X The P R E F A C E. mance, and what to the Novel Writer, nor to observe in what manner all these differ from each other; it is fufhcient to have obviated an Objection, which, I soresaw, might be made to these little Volumes by some, who are in truth as incapable of knowing any of the Faults, as of reaping any of the Beauties of an Author; and I astiire them, there is no Branch of Criticism, in which Learning, as well as good fense is more required, than to the forming an accurate Judgement of Style, tho’ there is none, I believe, in which every trifling Reader is more ready to give his decision. |
Instead of laying down any Rules for the use of such Tyros in the critical Art, I Shall recommend them to one, who is a Master of Style,
The P R E F A C E. XI Style, as of every other Excellence. This Gentleman in his Perjian Letters, many of which are written on the most important Subjects in e thics. Politics, and philosophy, hath condescended to introduce two or three Novels: in these they will find that inimitable Writer very ju diciousty changing the Style which he uses on other Occasions, where the Subjects of his Letters require the Air and Style of conversation; to preserve which, in relating Stories that run to any length, would be faulty in the Writer, and tiresome to the Reader.
T o conclude this Point, I know not of any estential Difference between this, and any other way of writing Novels, save only, that by making use of Letters, the Writer
is
XII The P R E F A C E. is Sreed from the regular Beginnings and Conclusions of Stories, with some other Formalities, in which the Reader of Taste finds no less Ease and Advantage, than the Author himself.
As to the Matter contained in the following Volumes, I am not perhaps at liberty to declare my Opinion : Relation and Friendship to the Writer may draw upon me the Censure of Partiality, if I Should be as warm, as I am inclined to be in their Commendation.
The Reader will however excuse me, if I advise him not to run them over with too much Haste and Indifference; such Readers will, I promise them, find little to admire in this Book, whole Beauties (if it
have
thepref ACE. XIII have any) require the same Attention to discover them, with which the Author herself hath considered that Book of Nature, whence they are taken. In Books, as well as Pictures, where the Excellence lies in the Expression or Colouring only, the first Glance of the Eyes acquaints us with all the Perfection of the Piece; but the nicest and most delicate Touches of Nature are not so soon perceived. In the Wcirks of Cervantes or Hogarth he is, I believe, a wretched Judge, who discovers no new Beauties on a second, or even a third Perusal.
And here I cannot control myself from averring, that many Touches of this kind appear to me in these Letters; Some of which I cannot help thinking as fine, as I
have
XIV The P R E F A C E. have ever met with in any of the Authors, who have made Human Nature their Subject.
A s Such Observations are generally supposed to be the Effects of long Experience in, and much Acquaintance with Mankind, it may perhaps surprise many, to Sind them in the Works of a Woman; especially of one, who, to use the common Phrase, hath seen so little of tie World: and I Should not wonder on this account, that these Letters were ascribed to another Author, if I knew any one capable of writing them.
But in reality the Knowledge of Human Nature is not learned by living in the Hurry of the World.
True
The P R E F A C E. XV True Genius, with the help of a little Conversation, will be capable of making a vast Progress in this Learning; and indeed I have observed, there are none who know so little of Men, as those who are placed in the Crowds, either of Bustnefs or plea fure. The Truth of the Astertion, that Pedants in Colleges have seldom any Share of this Knowledge, doth not arise from any Defect in the College, but from a Defect in the Pedant, who would have spent many Years at St. "James s to as little Purpose: : daily Experience may convince us, that it is postible for a Blockhead to see much of the World, and know little of it.
The Objection to the Sex of the Author hardly requires ananswer:
It
XVI The P R E F A C E.
It will be chiefly advanced by those, who derive their Opinion of Women very unsairly from the fine Ladies of ?the Age; whereas, if the Behaviour of their Counterparts the Beaus, was to denote the Understanding of Men, I apprehend the Conclusion would be in favour of the Women, without making a Compliment to that Sex. I can of my own Knowledge, and from my own Acquaintance bear Testimony to the postibility of those Examples, which History gives of Women eminent for the highest Endowments and Faculties of the Mind. I Shall only add an Answer to the same Objection, relating to David Simple given by a Lady of very high Rank, whose Quality is however less an Honour to her than her Understanding. So far.
The PREFACE. XVII far said She, from doubting David Simple to be the Performance of a Woman I am well convinced it could not have been written by a Man.
In the Conduct of Women, in that great and important business of their Lives, the Affair of Love, there are Mysteries, with which Men are perfectly unacquainted: their Education being on this head in Constraint of, nay, in direct Opposttion to, Truth and Nature, creates such a constant Struggle between Nature and Habit, Truth and Hypocrisy, as introduce often much Humour into their Characters; especially when drawn by fenstble Writers of their own Sex, who are on this Subject much more capable than the ablest of ours.
vol. I a I
XVIII The P R E F A C E.
I Remember it was the Observation of a Lady, for whose Opinion I have a great Veneration, that there is nothing more generally unnatural, than the Characters of Women on the Stage, and that even in our best Plays : IS this be Sact, as I stncerely believe it is, whence can it proceed, but from the Ignorance in which the artificial Behaviour of Women leaves, us, of what really pastes in their Minds, and which, like all other Mysteries, is known only to the Initiated?
Many of the Soregoing aster tions will, I question not, meet with very little Astent from those great and wise Men, who are not:
only
The PREFACE. XIX only absolute Masters of Some poor Woman s person, but likewise of her Thoughts. With Such Opposttion I must rest contented; but what I more dread, is, that I may have unadvisedly drawn the resentment of her own lovely Sex against the Author of these Volumes, for having betrayed the Secrets of the Society.
T o this I Shall attempt giving two Answers: First, that these nice Touches will, like the Signs of Masonry, escape the Observation and Detection of all those, who are' not already in the Secret;
Secondly, if She Should have exposed some of those nicer Female Foibles, which have cscaped a 2 most
vx The F R E F A C F. most other Writers, She hath at the same time, nobly displayed the Beauties and Virtues of the more amiable Part, which abundantly overbalances in the account. By comparing these together, young Ladies may, if they please, receive great Advantages: I will venture to say, no Book extant is so well calculated for their Instruction and Improvement. It is indeed a Glass, by which they may dress out their Minds, and adorn themselves with more becoming, as well sts more lasting Graces, than the Dancing master, the Manteau maker, or the Millener can give them. Here even their Vanity may be rendered ufe fiil, as it may make them detest and scorn all base, mean. Shuffling Tricks, and admire and cultivate whatever
The P R E F A C E. XXI whatever is truly amiable, generous and good: Here they must: learn, if they will please to attend, that the Confutnmation of a wo mati’s Charactetj is to maintain the Qualities of Goodness, Tenderness, Affection and Sincerity, in the Several Social Offices and Duties pf Life; and not to unite Ambition, Avarice, Luxury, and Wantonness in the Person of a Woman of the World, or to affect Folly, childifli nefs and Levity, under the Appellation of a fine Lady.
To conclude, I hope, for the Sake of my fair Country women, that these excellent Pictures of vir r tue and Vice, which, to my Knowledge, the Author hath bestowed such Pains in drawing, will not be thrown
thepref AGE thrown away on the World, but that much more Advantage may accrue to the Reader, than the good nature and Senlibility of the Age have, to their immortal Honour, bestowed on the Author
¦ A ¦¦
( XXIII)
THE
List of Subscribers.
’^hofe marked with an ajlerijk ^ are sub firibers for Royal Paper,
A.
T T Grace the Duke of St. Albans. JL X * She Right Honourable the Earl of Aberdeen, two Sets.
The Right Honourable the Earl of Abercorn, The Right Honourable the Lord Andover. The Right Honourable Lady Allen.
Sir John Astley, Bart.
^ Ralph Allen Efp, five Sets.
* -- -- Andrews Esq,
f Mark Annefiy Efif',
vol. I. b ^ Ed
: xiv Subscribers Names.
* Edward Astie e/q,
Mr. Andrews
Mrs. Andrews
Miss St. Aubin.
Mrs. Sarah Archer.
William x^ndrews Esq _
Mr, Ayers
Mrs. Artis.
B.
* Her Grate the Duchess of Bolton \ Grace the Duke of Bolton.
^ His Grace the Duke of bedsord.
Her Grace the Duchess of bedsord.
¦* The Right Honourable the Earl of Burlington.
* The Right Hofiourable the Earl of Bath.
* The Right Honourable the Earl of Brook. The Right Honourable the Earl of Bucking
hamstiire.
The Right Honourable the c/'blefiintom
Honourable Lady Buttevant,
Honourable Mrs. Brice.
Honourable James brudenel Lads Bishop.
Lady Bunbury
Miss
‘subscribers Names. XXV ^ Miss Bate.
* William Banks Esq' ' ^
* William Boothby, barl
* Mrs. Boothby Skrymiher.
* isaac Hawkins Brown Esq
^ teresa Blunt, two Sets.
^ William becksord Efqi Sir Robert Brown, Bart.
Sir John Barrington, Bart:
Mrs. Brace.
Miss Bertie.
Mrs. Bellamy.
John Batty e/q j Robert Barber Esq-
-- -- -- Esq
The Reverend Mr. Edward Bowls, Fellow ^ New College, A. M.
The Reverend Mr, Bowls of Donhead,
Mrs. benson.
Mr. Baddeley.
Mr. Robert Baldock.
Mrs. Barber of Salishury.
J. Beach Esq—
— Mr. John Balls,
Mr. Bromfield.
Cornet Barton.
h 2 ‘ Mr.
txvi Subscribers name^v Mr. Bell.
Miss Elizabeth benson.
Mrs. Barlow.
Mr. Berkley.
Mrs. Barrel,
Norris Bertie Esq
Mrs. becksord.
Capt. George Bocland. mrs. Brown.
Miss Burdon.
William Byrd Efqy Thomas Plummer Byde Miss Biffon,
Mrs. Barker.
Thomas Bayntun Efqy
C
Ihe Right Honourable the Marchioness 6j Carnarvon.'
The Right Honourable the Earl of Chesterfield.
The Right Honourable the Countess of Chesterfield.
The Right Honourable the Earl of Cardigan.
^ The Rtght Honourable the Earl of Carlille^ ............. The
Subscribers Names, XXVII
^ The Right itonourable the Earl of Choir mondley.
^ The Right Ilonourable the cornwallis;. The Right Honour able the Lord Castlemain, two Sets,
The Right Hotiourahle the Lord Cadogan. The Right Honourable the Lady Cathcart.
The Right Honourable the Lady Frances Carteret.
The Right Honourable the Lady Harriote Cohyers.
The Right Honourable Lady Elizabeth Cecil. The Right Honour able Lor d James cavendish. Honourable Mrs. cavendish.
Honourable Mrs. Chandler,
Honourable Miss Chudleigh, Maid of Honour to her royalhighnefs theprincefs of Honourable George Compton,
Lady Cust.
^ Sir Alexander Cockburn,
^ Sf James Carnegie, Idart. one Set, onf Set of common.
* Miss Cofiley, three Sets,
^ Dennis Chirac Efqy
* Miss Coutts.
Sir John Chester, Bart.
Sir William Courteney, Bart,
b 3 George
XXVIII Subscribers Names.
George Crowle Esq],
Walter Carew Esq',
Mrs. Sarah Crawley.
s'/rr. Salishury Cotton, Earouef George Coke Esq,
Mr. Cunningham. lars. Channing.
Mrs. Child,
Dr. Coats.
Anthony Gratchrode Eff',
Ralph Congreve Esq',
Thomas Coward Esq of Spargrove. Mrs, criswick,
George Clark Esq,
Miss Carver,
Mrs. Cooke.
Mrs. Cope.
— — _ Coventry Efqr,
Mr. Courd.
Mr. Richard Cleve.
Capt. Carey.
Mrs. Comyn. ¦
Valence Comyn Esq,
Mr. Child.
Mr. Edward Cave,
Reverend Mr. cooksey.
€apl James Car.,
Subscribers Names, XXIX
Miss Molly Clark.
Miss Churchill.
Mrs, Coleville.
Worshipful jir. Collier, LL. D,
Charles Collier Esq
Samuel Cox Esq',
Mrs. Corbet.
Walter Cock Eff',
Miss Copperthwaite.
D
* Right Honourable the Lord Darnly.
^ therighthonourable the Lord dmq^lvmon.
* Mrs, Doddington.
^ Mrs. Delme.
* George Drummond efq y
* Sir Francis Drake, Bart.
Mrs. Dalaval.
Jacob Downing Eff',
Mr. Deval.
Mrs. Delaval.
Mr. douglass.
Mrs. descurry,
Mrs. Elizabeth D’oyly, two Sets,
Robert Duke Esq',
Miss Dorrel. ^
h 4. thqws
XXX Subscribers Names.
Thomas Draper, Esq, Sergeant at Law, Honourable Colotiel Driver.
Peter Davis Esq
H. Dyer f/y;
The Reverend Mr, dowdeswel.
Mr, dennison, two Sets.
Miss Ann douglass.
James Dolliffe Esq,
Miss davison.
Peter Delme Esq,
Mr, Dodlley, six Sets.
E.
The Right Honourable the Earl of Effingham.
The Right Hottourable the Earl c/euston. The Right Honourable the Lady Charlotte Edwin, Lady of the Bedchamber to her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales.
* The Honour able Mrs, Egerton.
* Sir Abraham Elton, Bart.
^ Giles Eyres Esq
^ Eyres.
Honourable Col. Ellison.
Sir Charles Eglington, Kt.
Henry Sarle Esq,
John
Subscribers Names. xxu
John Egerton Esq,
.Miss Egerton.
James Edgel Esq,
Gilbert Elliot Esq,
Mr. George Elers.
John Eames Esq,
Capt. William Evelyn.
Mf. Edward Easton.
F.
The Right iionourabie the Vifcomtefs of Falconberg.
The Right ilonoufable the Earl c/'fitzwalter.
The Right Honour able the laidy Cecilia Isabella Finch, first Lady of the bedchamber to her Royal’highnefs the princefs Amelia.
The Right Honourable the Lady Charlotte * Finch.
The Right Honourable the Lady Augustps Fitzroy
^ Fielding Esq
^ -- -- -- Efqj^
* Gauntlet Fry Esq,
William Fitzherbert Efp Lady Fagg Mrs. Fish.
Henry
XXXII Subscribers Names.
Henry Fox Esq,
Mr. Forde,
Miss Fido.
Mrs. Fonncreau.
Charles Fourace Esq,
Honourable Brigadier Fowkes, ^
Mr. William Fead.
G.
^ His Grace the Duke of Gordon, three Sets.
The Right Honourable the Lord Gauge.
Tl: e Right Honourable the Lady Gauge.
* -- -- Gqvc Esq
* Gould Esq
^ Green, one Set, and one. Set of common.. Richard Graham Esq, one Set, and one ' Set of common.
Honourable Mrs. Greville.
William Grant Esq, Lord Advocate of scot i land.
Mrs. Gordon.
Miss Goldwyre.
Edward Grinfield Esq,
Miss Groves.
Miss Grey.
Mrs. Matthews goldsmrtb.
Mr.
Subscribers nam£s. XXXIII Mr. Gostling.
iionourabie Brigadier Qraham.
Mrs. griesdale.
^ John Grey Esq,
H.
The Right Honourable the Countess of Hart sord.
The Right Honourable the Countess of Hume. The Right Honourable the Lady Gertrude Hotham.
The Right Honourable the Lady Herbert.
The Right Honourable the Lady Dorothy hoh^rt.
The Right Honourable the Lord Herbert of Cherbury.
^ The Reverend Archdeacon Hayter.
* Mrs. Harrington.
^ Richard Heath Esq
^ Harris Esq
^ Harris.
^ Mrs. Hpadly.
iionourabie Mrs. Hamilton.
Miss Harrington. '
William Husbands Esq
Mrs. Hanmer,
Mrs,
XXXIV Subscribers Names.
Mrs. Hooper.
Thomas Harris two Sets.
Mr. Thomas Hayter.
Dr. Hele.
Miss Hillnian.
Mrs. Hopkins.
Mr. Honez.
Miss Hutton.
Honourable General Howard.
Col. Harwood.
Reverend Mr. Robert Haley.
Mrs. Heathcote.
Mrs. Hoadly.
Mr. William Harris of Bradford.
Capt. Hawker.
John Harcourt Efqy Thomas Harvey Esq, two Sets,
Fdvvard Hooper Esq
John Hill Esq, commijjiomr rfthe Customs. hodgkisoa Esq,,

The Right Honourable the Entri of jersey. The Right Honourable the Countess Jersey
^ Right Honourable the Lady Ilchester. ^ The Right Honourable the Lady Inchiquin.
^ Pawlct
Subscribers Names. XXXV
^ Pawlet St. John, Efqi Mrs, jackson.
Thomas Joy, Esq,
Dr. Jernegan.
The Reverend Mr. St. John.
Goodyers St. John, Esq-
-- -- -- Esq;
Robert Jenner, Esq,
Mrs. Mary Jones.
Sir William Irby, Bart.
Stephen Janffen, Esq,
William Janffen, Esq,
James Jeffrys, Esq,
Peter Joy, Esq,
R.
^ His Grace the Duke of Kingston.
The Right Honourable the Lord Viscount Kenmare.
* Godfrey Kneller, Esq
* Knight.
* Henry kelsall, Esq
* Alexander kinlocl Lady
Knight, Esq
• Knight,
Mr, Edward
XXXVI Subscribers Names.
Edward Kriatchbull, Esq;
Mrs. Knatchbull.
Mrs. Kendal.
James Ker Esq;
L
The Right Honourable the Earl of Litchfield. The Right Honourable the Countess of Litchfield.
* Lady Lyddel.
* Sir Robert Long; Bars.
* Richard Lockwood, Esq
^ Leyborne, Esq;
Lady lawson.
•john Lander of the Middle temple, Esq; Edward Lambert, Esq;
Mr. Levy.
Sir Digby Lambert, Bart.
Mrs. lindsey.
The Honourable James Lumley
Daniel Lock, Esq;
Mr. Leak; six Sets.
M.
* Her Grace the Duchess of Montague.
f The Right Honourable the Lady Mary Worley Montague.
* Edward
Subscribers Names. XXXVII
^ Edward Wortley Montague, Esq
^ marsden.
Mrs. musgrave. two Sets.
John Merrih Esq;
Mrs. Mellifh of Liste street.
Capt. John Francis Mercer,
Mrs. maynci Mr. Moore.
Mrs. Mainwaring.
Thomas Murray, Esq;
John Morgan, Esq;
Mrs. Murray.
Mrs. Mackenzie;
Mr. Thomas Melmouthi Mrs. Marshal.
Mr. Mure.
Carew Mildmay, Esq;
Mrs. Mordaunt.
George Montague, Esq;
Paul Methuen, Esq;
Mrs. Elizabeth Mills.
Samuel Martin, Esq;
Mrs. Montgomery.
Mr. John Spencer Mild ward, Surgeon at Sevenoaks.
Mr. Peter Motteux, of Spittlefields, *
‘ ¦ N.
xxxviii Subscribers na^esi isr.
* Her Grace the Duchess of norsolk, four Sets.
The Right Honourable the Earl (Northampton.
Sir Arthur Newcomb, Bart.
The Honourable -- -- -- -- naffauj Esq
* Neshit, Esq
* Nash, Esq;
Mrs, Nixon.
Mrs. Naylor.
Mrs. Newton of Rider street.
Mrs. Norris.
Miss Newey.
Miss Kitty Newey.
Miss Nanderish.
Mrsi Ann Norwood;
O.
The Right Honour able the Countess of Orford.
* Lady .Ogle.
* Mrs. Oglethorpe.
Mrs. Ogle.
M/lpgle,
Sir
Subscribers na^es. XXXIX
Sir George Oxendon, Bars.
Eatoii Otway, Esq..
Otway, Esq;
P.
The Right Honourable the Countess Dowager of Pembroke.
The Right Honourable the Earl of Pembroke, two Sets.
The Right Honourable the Countess of Pom sret.
^ The Right Honourable the Earl of Portsmouth.
The Right Honour able the Da'dy Mary Peters. The Right Honourable Lady Nassau Pawlet. The Honourable Mrs. Price.
* Sir John Philipps, Bart.
^ Mrs. Parrot,
* Capt. Pierce.
* John Potter, Esq
* Pollhill, Esq
^ Pit of Safuni.
* Edward Popham, Esq; two Sets,
* Edward Palmer, Esq
* Peel,.
hbnbufabh Qefieirdl Piiltctiey.
Ydx. I. G George
LX Subscribers Names.
George Pit, Esq;
jmrs. Pritchard of Marlborough streets iars. Perry.
Mr, William Palmer.
Mr, Partridge.
William Phipps, Esq;
Mrs. Penruddock.
Mrs. Powel Salishury.
Mrs. Pit.
Mrs. Peacock.
Miss Pampellone.
Ralph Palmer, Esq;
Henry Palmer, Esq;
Mr. Archdale Palsher.
The Reverend douor primrose
Miss Pit.
Eliakine Palmer, Esq;
Mrs. Prittee.
Mr. Peareth.
^ His Grace the Duke of Queensberry.
R.
Her Grace the Duchess of Richmond.
His Grace the Duke of e.utland, two Sets ' ^thi
Subscribers Names. XLI
^ The Right Honourable the Countess of Rochford.
^ Mrs., Rook.
^ Doflor Reyner.
* The Reverend Mr. v/illiam Rothery. Benjamin Rogers, Esq;
Mrs. Revel.
Mrs. Rooks of Horfington, Hvo Sets.
Mr. William Read.
-- -- Robertson, Esq;
Mr. richardson.
John Randolph, Esq;
Miss Sally Robinson.
Major John Reid.
S.
^ The Right Honourable the Earl of Scarborough.
The Right Honourable the Earl of shell born.
^ The Right Honourable the Lady Frances Seymour.
The Right Honourable the Lady Jane Scott. The Right Honourable the Lady Elizabeth Smith Son.
The Right Honourable Lord Southwell.
C 2 That
XLII Subscribers Names.
The Right Honour able Lady, Southwell,
* The Honourable John Spencer,
* Samuel Strode, Esq
^ Seymour, Esq
* Seymour, Esq
^ Archer shish, Esq
^ Stewart, two Sets.
* Sir Hugh Smithson, Bard.
* Lady Stanley.
^ Samuel Savage, Esq;
The Honourable Mrs. Southwell.
The Honourable Charles Stanhope,
Mr, Stockdale, two Sets.
Mrs. Spence.
Cm, Shadwell.
Mr. Screen.
Capt, Saumers.
Miss Sheppard.
Miss Sharp.
Sir George Saville, Bart.
John Summers, M. D.
Mr. Stone of Salishury.
Mr. Salvidpre.
Mrs, shisii.
The. Reverend doslor Skerondel.
Archibald Stewart, Esq; fit; Sets, firs. Saltrnash.
William
Subscribers btames, XLIII
William Southwell, Esq;
George Augustus Selwyn, Esq
Major Severn.
Mrs. Martha Spagg,
Mrs. Screen, r— — Efqy Miss Stuart.
Jacob Self, Esq;
Mrs. Ann Salter.
Capt. Sherman.
Capt. N. Smith.
T.
* The Right Honourable the Lord Talbot. The Right Honourable the Lady Talbot.
The Right Honourable the Lady Tyrawley.
f The Honourable -- -- Townfliend, Esq;
f Mrs. tennison.
^ mis Tublay op chelsea.
* Sir Edmund Thomas, Bard.
* Edward thompson, Ejq;
The Reverend and Honourable Mr. Talbot. The Reverend Mr. Talbot;
Thomas Tyndale, Esq; of Bristol.
John Tucker, Esq;
John Thorp, Esq;
Stearne
XLIV Subscribers Names.
Stearne Tighe, Esq;
Samuel Thayer, Esq;
Thomas Tregonwell, Esq;
V U.
* The Right Honourable Lady Catherine Vendenbempden.
^ The Right Honourable the Lord Viscount Vane.
George Vandeput, Esq;
Robert Vyner, Esq;
imadam Virette. lars. Upton.
The reverejid Mr. Upton.
W.
^ The Right Honourable the Earl of win dhelsea.
* The Right Honourable the Earl of waldegrave
^ Right Honourable the Lord Ward.
^ The Right Honourable the Lady Ward.
* The Right Honourable the windsor. ^ The Honourable Mrs. Wadman.
* The Honourable Mr. Ward.
The Honourable — - Winnington.
^ The
Subscribers Names. XLV
* The Honourable -- Withrington.
^ Miss Ward.
* Mrs, Webb at the Bath.
^ Mrs. Walters.
* -- -- - wenmensel, jrfq;
^ -- -- wenmensel, Esq
^ -- -- Esq; four Sets,
* William Watts, Esq
^ Watts, Esq
^ Watts.
^ Abel Walters, Esq
^ Wade.
The Reverend Mr. Warburton.
Lady Wentworth.
Capt. Francis wiikinson.
Miss susannah Ward.
Richard Willoughby, Esq;
Mrs. Wyndham of Dinton senior.
Mrs. Wyndham of Dinton junior.
Mrs. Catherine Wyndham.
Miss Walters.
Mrs. Barbara Ashley Wyndham.
Mrs. Harriote Wyndham.
Mrs. Ann Wyndham.
Albel Walters, Esq;
The Honourable Mrs. Walters.
Miss Elizabeth Warfield,
Mrs.
XLVIII SUBSCIUBERS namesi* Mrs. Walkct.
Mrs. Woolridge of shastshury. Miss Wynn.
Mountyfort Westrop, Esq;
Cooper Walker, Esq(
()
Familiar Letters.
LETTER!.
Cynthia to c.^milla, at London
Camilla, [From the
My Journey hither, was as agreeable as it was possible, considering the weak State of Health, in which I parted from you; and since my Arrival here, I am Surprilingly recovered. How happy are we when, in giving another pleasure, even Health itself becomes a double Blesting 1
Yesterday I arosc early with Such a livelychearsulness onmy Mind, as gave me a vol. I. B desirc
5  I.
desire to indulge myself in st Morning's Walk. Valentine, who is at once my Lover and my Husband, by his immediate offering to be my Guide and Companion, en creased my inward Tranquillity, and rendered every outward Object yet more pleasing. The Weather was fair, and the Pro spect of everything around me heightened and pleased my Imagination, with the Object of both my Esteem and Affection, who Sondly Smiled an Approbation on all my Remarks. Whilst I was overjoyed to find my utmost Wish gratified, in Seeing it in my power to give him plcasure, I need hot tell you how happily I passed themorn ing. I could not thjnk Adam and in paradise could exceed us in bliss. From this real, this Substantial happiness, a happiness, to the attaining which, So very little Expense is necessary, my Thoughts involuntarily wander’d through the various pursuits and the numberless Anxieties of Mankind, about those things, which when attained, only load their Minds with still more Cares, and involve and perplex sheir Brains with ten thousand distractingdiitri cate Labyrinths.
Lin DAM IRA
LETTER!. 51
Lindamira has Sacrificed all her Peace (and wisely abandoned in a difiionou rable manner a Man of sense whom she liked, with a moderate Fortune) to the Ambition of a great Equipage, and a Coach and Six (burden’d with a Fool she hates) in which she now continually sighs and laments her own Folly j and those Jewels, which once by their glaring Lustre So dazzled her Eyes, as to blind her to her real Interest, now Seem like Burdens she is obliged to carry, rather than like Ornaments file delights to wear.
The gay, the blooming Strepbon for sook, and broke the Heart of an amiable young Woman who loved him, allied himself to Age and ugliness, for the Sake of Grandeur and Wealth: And now eternal noise interrupts his Meals, and Such continual Jealousies break out in loud Complaints from his wife’s Tongue, that he would gladly retire to Peace and calmness; and could he but be rid of his Torment, the Wealth that attends it he would chearsully resign.
B 2 That
53 L E T T E R I.
T HAT all Men desire to behappy is certain, and yet to judge by their pursuits, one could almost imagine they Seek misery vrkh the greatest Astlduity; for they bustle and labour and strive Sor’ things osten improbable. Sometimes impossible to attain 5 and if attainable, most times unprofitable and insipid; whilst they neglect the very things that would render them happy, which perhaps are within their reach, and would cost them very little to come at.
X I Remember my Father oncccarry’d a Country Fellow to London with him; he confider’d the poor man’s Ignorance of the Ways of the Town, and Seldom Sent him far on Errands. He one day ordered him to go to a Shop in the next Street to Setch Some Trifle. The poor Creature was not to be heard of any more 'till ten o’clock at Night, when he came home puffing and blowing for Breath, and in Such a Heat, that it threw him into a violent Fever, of which he with difficulty recover’d. On Examination we Sound, that when he first inquired for the Shop to which he was Sent,
he
let T E R ^ I. s3
he was So unsortunate, as to meet with Some very ingenious Wits, who on Seeing a poor awkward Country Fellow, thought it would be charming Sport to Send him out of his way; and thus from one to another was he Sent up and down that great Metropolis, 'till wearied with the fruitless Search of what he might have had within ten Yards of his own Home, he gained nothing but difease and Pain for his tiresome Satiguing Labour.
How many wise Men, whpse immense Knowledge extends So Sar as to know every Street and Corner of London, would laugh at this poor Fellow's Ignorance, by them called Folly; and yet in the pursuit of the only Thing of consequence to them in this World, namely their own happiness, would be Sent out of the Road by every Fool who pretends to judge of another’s sensations, and to lay down Rules for the attaining that, of which every Individual must judge for themselves. But you, Camilla, who So strongly prove your own Capacity of enjoying happiness by the great Art you have of diffusing it to all around you B 3 will
54 L E T T E R I.
will easily, without any Aflistance, make the Application of my Story.
Your Brother and his happy wise and I Spent three Hours in great pleasure, reciprocally conveying our Ideas to each other, without any disguise or artful Concealment of our Thoughts. But as I promised to give you an Account of everything I met with, the Scene must now be changed, and I will insorm you what pasted where I Spent the asternoon. Indeed it would be impossible for any two Scenes to be more dis ferent than that already described, and what I am now going to relate. From Solid Pleasure and real happiness, how great was the Change to their liseless Shadow, Foppery and dress, Impertinence and Folly! I was Surrounded with a Set of Company who talked So Sail, that their Breath, like that of dying Men, Seemed exhausted whilst yet they fancied they had much to utter. No Stranger that has appeared here for this Fortnight, escaped the censure of these Critics on Life. But the Reputations of Foes and Friends, guilty or innocent, fell alike the commoa Prey to their merciless Rage.
Like
L E T T E R I. 55
Like a mad Dog in his Carrier, they did not bite because they were offended, but becaiise the very Action of Biting was the pleasure they Sought. To throw their venomous Foam on others. Seemed to ease them, and yet their Fund of Venom was not one jot decrcased.
The least hurtsul Part of their dis course, was the falling on the outward Behaviour of their Acquaintance. onelady was so forward. She was almost impudent 5 another So bashful, that she must be quite a Fool; a third So insipid, she had nothing ta saysorhersels; and a fourth talked So eternally,, nobody could have an Opportunity to Speak in her Company. Thus they run on one aster another with great Impetuolity, till I was So tired, that I was going to leave them, when I observed a grave looking Man at one Corner of the Room, who had hitherto been filent, began to Speak, and begged he might tell them a Story; which Liberty he with earnest Request (for it did not Seem to be the Desire of the Company to hear) obtained, and then began as fol fows.
B 4 “When *
5  I.
“When I vras a young Man, I lived “at my Father's Seat in the Country; it was So situated, that I had very Sew Neighbours of my own Rank; I there“ “Sometimes for my Diversion con versed with the Farmers and their Wives: It was my delight to make Observations on these vulgar Wretches, for I thought “Want of Education rendered them almost “of a different Species. I remember once I was at one of their Feasts, the Occasion“ “the making an insant a Christian: but when they fancied themselves in the height of their Mirth, I Sound that pul“ “to pieces, and railing at their Neighbours was all their Diversion. I “pitied them, that for want of having any “Ideas but Such as Matters of Fact im mediately presented to their Minds, they “were obliged to fall on this disagreeablc Topic. We had not Sat long besore a young Fellow came running into the “Room, Saying a mad Bull was got loose in the Parish, and that the Cows were “all in danger of being bit by him; on ^ which out went all the Farmers and their
‘‘ Dames
 . 57
“Dames to preserve their Cattle, and quite • “forgot their Neighbours misconduct. I “immediately reflected how happy it was “that People, who could not have a Mo“ “leisure, without being mischie vous., should be continually employed in “menial Labours, where they were obliged “to be of Some Service to the Communi“ “in ipite of their teeth."
When the Gentleman ceased, the Company all stared at each other, for I believe Some of them had a confused Notion of his Meaning; and at last a young Fellow stepped up to him, and ash'd, “What he meant; whether he defign’d to affront “anyone?" The Gentleman gravely answered, “That he had no Suspicion the “telling a Story of Country Farmers “could be any Affront to that companyv This was taken for Fear, and every Man in the Room at once cry’d out, “Yes, he had “affronted them all, and they demanded “satissaction. As to what satissaction you “demand. Said the Gentleman, I am rea“ “to give it at any time you please." Now a general Silence ensued, and the Gentleman
58 L E T T E R I.
Gendeman walked deliberately out of the Room, Saying, He was glad to find they had So much sense, as to know the difference between themselves and Country ‘^ Boobies, ” Now arose a contemptuous Laugh, and the former Conversation was renewed : But I Sollowed the Gentleman who had told the Story, being quite wearied with Such Company.
I am.
Dear Camilla,
ttour ever ajfebionate Sijler^
CYNTHIA.
( 59)
 I
Camilla to Cynthia at Bath.
Dear Cynthia, [Fromhondon.
My Father is much better than when you lest him, and considering his Age, enjoys his Health tolerably well. We Spend our time as agreeably as your absence will permit us 5 and as your last Letter, by the manner in which you tell me you Spend your time, convinces me how Surprifingly you are recovered, I may now Say .1 am persectly happy; and the having it in my power to give you and my dear Brother the pleasure of informing you of that happiness, is no inconsiderable Addition to the great Blefiings I at present enjoy. Since we parted, I have accidentally contracted an Acquaintance with a Lady, with whom I am very much pleased 5 and as she has told me her Story, I intend to Send it you Z ill
6o L E T T E R II
in Letters, thinking it will be more entertaining than any other thing I can write. I took it down from her own Mouth, and theresore Send it in the first person, as she spoke it. Her words were these:
I WAS bred up under a Mother, whosc Precepts were rather gently instilled, than forced into my Mind; and whose Heart, instead of being actuated by that Pride which is generally the Fountain of Advice, as well as Commands, really overflowed with an unaffected fondness towards her Offspring. By her Manageifient and Behaviour she gained my Attention, while she won my Love; at ohce engaging my Heart, and improving my Understanding. Such a Parent you would think must neces sarily make me pass my insancy in all the happiness of which that Age is shsceptible: and yet the moment I was capable of Reflection, from this indulgent Mother arole all my missortunes; Sori continually Saw her depressed with the deepest Melancholy, and endeavouring to hide those Tears she could not stifle. I shared in all her griess, although I was persectly ignorant of she
cause
L E T T E R II 6i
cause of them. But I Soon perceived that my Sympathising in her Sorrows rather aggravated than alleviated them; and she would often Say, “Oh, Ifabinda! steel “your Heart against strong Affections, and conquer that natural sostness osyour Mind; “or unavoidable misery must attend you. “don’t cherish apashon that I will, notpo litively, say there are no Objects in the “World to gratify. But this I think I can with truth affirm, that they are So « very rare, it would be presumption in “you to hope to meet with So uncommon, “So great a Blesting." Her Words greatly perplexed me; for Such was my natural disposttion, that I was amazed a Mother, and Such a Mother, should endeavour to root out of my Mind what I thought was at once both amiable and virtuous. But when I came of an Age she imagined fit to be trusted, I by my Importunity one day prevailed on her to let me into the whole Secret of her Soul; and aster the vent of Some Sighs, which at first almost choked her Words, she began in the Sollowing manner:
“As
62 L E T T E R II
“As I was Sole heiress to a grea “Estate, I heard of nothing from m “Childhood, but the Charms of my Per “Son. praises of this kind were the onh “Language I was accustomed to; And in “stead of being taught that Superiority o “Fortune becomes a curse, when the pos “Seffor knows not how to employ it, mj “own Parents joined with my other Flat“ “in endeavouring to fix Notions ir “my Head that I was all persection, and “consequently could not err; which J “Sound they derived rather from the Excel“ “of my Beauty than from any other ‘ ‘ Endowment, though I was not without ma“ “Commendations of my Understanding and good q^lities. When I was Eighteen, I lost my Mother, and my Father Sur“ “her but three Years j So that at the “Age of one and twenty I was left en“ “to myself', the mistress of a great “Fortune, and strongly possessed with the ‘‘ Idea, that I could not be complimented, “for that I deserved much more than the “warmest Imagination could Suggest in “my praise. The multitude of my sincere Lovers (as I tn thought them)
tl for
 I 63
for Some time prevented my making any Choice; for no Sooner did I find anln clination Secretly arising for any one, “than the Charms of Some other damped “the growing Passion; And I was So per“ “by the Variety offered me, that “by the abundance of Power itself, I lost “even that of distinguishing which of my “Admirers I liked best. This fluctuating “State of Mind continued till I was Five“ “when I accidentally met “your Father at a lady’s house in the “Neighbourhood. He was handsome to “a miracle; 1 no Sooner Saw him than I “liked him, and was So accustomed to the “Addresses of every Man by whom I was “Seen, that I did not at all Sear his imme “diately becoming one osmy Train. But “as it happened that he had for half a “year fancied himself very much in love “with the young Harriat, the lady’s “Daughter at whose house I first Saw “him, he did not So Soon prosess him“ “my Lover as I expected. This was ‘‘ the first time my Vanity had ever the “least reason to be piqued, and conse “quently I became the more uneasy; and
y what
64. L E T T E R If.
** virhat is very unaccountable, I never ha“ “enough to find out by Reflection “that I had any Such Passion as Vanity “'till its being thus disappointed, force( “me to feel by the Pain it gave me, tha “I was possessed of it. My Rival wa “very pretty, and her Fortune Such a your Father had great reason to be con “tented with; but as I took all Opportu “nities of throwing myself in his way “and contrived every Method (except tel “ling him of it) to let him See how mud “I liked him, and although the Task i “very difficult to convince People that the“ “are the Objects of Admiration “yet in about a Week, by great Assiduity“ “lest him no remaining Doubt, but that “I, and, what was much more prevailing, “my Fortune, was at his Command, provided he would forsake Harriat, and “think of me only. The Thoughts oi “my great Estate immediately took pos“ “of his whole Mind, and the Glare “of my Superiority in that respect dazzled “his Eyes to Such a degree, as made all his " former mistress’s Charms vanish and Sadc ‘‘ into nothing, whilst he became (atleafl
in
 r. 65
in appearance) entirely devoted to my “Love."
** Now my utmost Vanity was Satisfied by the removal of every Obstacle that " obstructed it j Nature began to break V Forth, and Education gave way to its “Superior Force. Wax made warm with “Fire could not be more Soft and tender than my dispofition originally was. But ‘‘ yet by being continually accustomed to “the utmost Gratifications of Vanity, my “Mind for Some time Seemed completely Satisfied, and my Inclinations to Love lay concealed even from myself. But “your father’s Charms very Soon inspired “me with a Passion So Ample and un “mixed, that my whole pleasure was cen “tered in the Thoughts that my Affections “were returned, and our Love mutual. “Blinded by my own Passion, I hastened “to make the Man I Sanded I had such “reason to esteem. Master of me, and my “Fortune. I painted in my own Mind " Scenes of constant Love, and lasting “tenderness; and made no doubt but I y was arrived to the highest degree of hu v ol. I. C y mau
66 L E T T E R II
man happiness. My Husband's Beauty ‘‘ was what first inspired me with Love, “and unfortunately for myself, my Ima“ “was lively enough to give him, “in my opinion, everything I wished him “possessed of. I thought his Understand“ “equalled his Beauty, and mistook that sostness which entirely arose from the Formation of a regular Set of Sea“ “for real tenderness, and an unaf * “Sectred goodness of Mind. But my being thus deceived in his real Character “has been the cause of all the misery I “have Suffered since 5 for had I had Ex“ “enough of the World, or Com“ “enough of my own Pafiions, to ‘‘ have judged of him as he was, I Should ** either have conquered my Inclination, or brought myself to have been contented “with his Behaviour. But I have conti nually languished for Imposhbilities, and ** given way to Desires as madly, as if I was to expect a Crop of Corn from a “paved Street, or gilded Palaces to arise in barren uninhabited Mountains. In “short, my whole Soul has been always t tenderness to
’I wards
 I 67
wards my Husband; while he is not only incapable of returning it, but de“ “my Folly; and has not the least “Idea of what it means. He is a very “honest Man, and I believe is very constant to me; I don’t know that he is “guilty of any one Vice; and yet his being totally unsusceptible of tender Senlations, renders me more miserable, ‘‘ than if his Actions were Such as would “make me hate him. If he was not the Man I am obliged to live with, I could ‘‘ now get the better of this unreasonable “Wish. But as I daily See him before “my Eyes, I am quite unhappy. For he “at once keeps up an Inclination which “makes me long to find him capable of fondness, and yet at the Same time proves “by every Action he is not So. now, “Ifabinda, this is the reason I would have you take pains to keep your'mind from being too much Softened, and, by my “Example, guard against the Rock on “which I have Split. I should not have “declared my Sentiments fb freely to yott y .of your Father; but that! think every C 2 y thing
^8 L E T T E R II
thing is necessary to caution you against “being miserable.”
By this time Supper was on the Table; and my father’s entering the Room put an end to our discourse.
When I was lest alone, I began to reflect on what my Mother had told me j I could not but think that was I to meet with Such a Behaviour as my father’s to her, in a Man I loved, it would make me unhappy j for he constantly went out as Soon as he had breaksasted; came home to Dinner; astei which, he slept still it was time to go abroad again; Seldom staid out to Supper 5 but a! Soon as that was over, hurried to Bed, as i the living in the Same house was a reasoi why People Should never Speak to eaci other. I began to Sorm in my Mind a Re Solution that nothing should ever tempt mi to marry; but then it Suddenly came int my Head, that I should never follow m; mother’s Example, in being charm’d wit! Beauty alone; and shat theresore in a Ma of sense, I might meet with the Gratification of my utmost tenderness; and I ' J happ
L E T T E R H. 69
happy instead of miserable, by indulging the Softest Passion I was capable of. My imagii^^tion immediately formed a Creature whose ]\4ij?d was perfectly the reverse of my father’s, capable of all the little Refinements in which true Loye chiefly consists;; I was generous enough to myself to make no doubt of being quite Secure ps possessing this lovely Creature of rny own Brain. But I will not trouble you with the various Turns of my Thoughts that Night; for what between Compafljon for my Mother, and Joy ct the great siic cess of my own Passion ^ I made the Object of it do and Say whatever would please me best) the?: e Such a wild Medley in my Mind, a would be difficult to make intelligible to another; but the next Morning gave a Sudden Turn to all our Affairs. For my Father, as he was oing out aster Breakfast, Sell down in a Fit of an Apoplexy j he was a fat, gross, Man; and although he never got drnnk, yet he had always indulged himself ip eat r ing and drinking to the very Brink of in ten^peranne; So that it fell So heavy upon him, that the most Speedy Relief we could C 3 get.
70 L E T T E R IL
get, proved ineffectual; and in less than hstl an Hour he expired. My Mother behaved on that Occasion as is usual; she had loss the Object of her Passion, and for the present quite forgot it had never been re: turned; So that for the Time she Selt a: great Grief, as if she had the strongess reasons in the World for it. But the ssnd« ing herself freed from that Perturbation o: Mind which had been occasspned by th continual Sight of a person whom sh( loved contrary to her own reason, Sopn alleviated her Sorrow and rendered hei much calmer than she had been from hei first Acquaintance with her Husband. Sh( then turned all her Thoughts on me, and ] rhade it my study to pay her the piost re fp'ectsul Duty, joined with the warmes Affection.
W E were in the Country, and led a retired Solitary Life; where although we hac no great pleasures, yet the being perfect!) (free from everything that could ruffle oi disturb usyin reality, fully compensated th( Want of them. But I was young, noi yet ^bpye Seventeen, and Soon grew weary
oi
 I 7l
of this insipid lise. I wanted to go into, the World J and although I did hot know it, ’ I certainly had Sofne latent Hope; that I Should northeast day meet with a Lover, ^osr Seffed of af She amiable Qualities" which tny own Imaginatlori Suggested to be neces ^ fary to foirri‘ i rnutua! rlappinets. My Mother wduld nbt rtfuse' anything I desired, and cohsented to the taking a house in London, although' she often Said that oil, lily account she did if with reluctance; for Sear rhy Fortune' (for niy Father had grvady improved hers)' Should lead me irith the same
Snare into which' she herself had fallen. I proinifed always td take her Adr vice, and by lily Behaviour convinced her I should not be estsily perfu^shd to dilbsey So good a Pareiit'.
I WAS no Sooner talked of in Town as' a great Fortune, but Conquests, ost rath&' what w"oihen call Siicli, daily flowed in’ lipori liie. Beaus, Pretty fe llows, in short all the idle Part of Mankind, who dress and make love for lio other reason biit for want of ah Opplortunity to get rid' b? that great Burden their Time, incessantly C 4 attended
7  II
attended me : And although I should have hated myself, is I could have thought of dallying with the Pashon of a Man of sense, in order to make; .hinr uneasy,; yet I consess I did not think it any great Crim to. let these Monkeys play over a few of their Tricks, for my Diversion: whilst I was convinced could they have Separated the Idea of my Fortune from my person,. my Power to give them either pleasure or Pain would equctly have vanished into nothing. It is almost incredible what Sort of trifling Actions, and llonsepfical Incidents, these Sort, pf Men take for Encouragement; and from which they imagine a Woman obliged to Spend her whole lise with them. Distant Civility they take for a modest Concealment of a Passion; rudeness they construe into Love; if by chance you look at them, you are eagerly deflrous of engaging their Affection; pnd if by accident you overlook, them, you are timorous lest they should engage yours, and cowardly fly from those Charmd. which must otherwise unavoidably captivate your Heart. And then their nianner
of
 I 73
of declaring the Violence of their Passion is ridiculous, almost beyond comparison.
One of my Sparks, aster he had drank Tea with me two or three times, and I had perhaps taken a Pinch of Snuff out of his Box, or given him one out of mine, with Some other such Marks of Love, happened one Day to find me alone : He Sat down, blessed his Stars for the Savourable Opportunity, and then remained a Sull Oerter of an Hour in perfect Silence, staring me all the while Sull in the Face with So assured a Look, as convinced me he was thinking thus in himself; “How “happy are you to meet with me! but whilst I am here, make haste to accept “the Honour Ido you, or there are enough that will be glad of it, and take the Blesting from you." But I am certain my Eyes were very saithsul to me, and that I did not express the least Affection for him in my Words; So that the Gentleman was totally disappointed, and went stem me in Such great Anger, that he reported all over the Town I was a finished Coquette.
Another
74 L E T T E R II
Another thought to gain me by mere dint of Impudence, and told me I wronged my own Heart in pretending to conceal my Love, for he read it hi my Looks; giving me thany hints how much rhore my Misfortune than his it would be, if I continued to act So foolishly; and then began to kick his Heels, and hum a Song in a careless manner, as much asto Say; “If
you think you can give me any Pain, “you are mightily mistaken; for my Value “Sor you is not So great as to put me into “your power." This Behaviour really diverted mev and I could not help laughing at him to Such a degree, as made him quit the Room, and persectly forget how shuch I was in love with him. He was reckoned handsome, and indeed had a^ ^mlich Beauty afr could be in a Face that was unanimatfed; and a Countenance in which you could read nothing, but Fool.
A Third approached me with a Solemn Air and a majestic Pace; and expected I should Submit to the Opinion he had conceived of his own Dignity. Fur Some
time
L E T T E R II 75
time I was a little at a loss to find oilt, whether this Man had not Some Affection for me, because I was So very much mistaken as to impute his Behaviour to a dls fidence in himself, and a Fear of offctiding me by a Declaration of his Love: but by ol Conversation I had with him one day, I found out by the Sentiments he expresteff, that what had the Appearance of Modesty, in reality arose only from the Value he Set on his own ivferit, and to his Pride indulged to Such a Height, as made him Scorn the Thoughts of condescending to bear a refusal. This was to me the most ridiculous Character in the World, and the giddiness of Youth made me foolish enough to take a pleasure in endeavouring tor humble his Pride, and trying tcr alhire the Gentleman to declare his Passion, only that I might have the Satisfaction of piquing his Vanity, and lowering the great Opinion he had of himself. Two or three Scenes that passed between us, (inn which I made Advances only to bring about my own purpose, and he appeared timorous and fearful of being caught) would really have been diverting to a third person; and it
makes
76 L E T T E R IL
makes me laugh whenever I reflect on them.
At last the Same Pride which made him look on being rejected with Such Dread, prevailed on him to believe it was very improbable that shch a Difajier Should ever happen; And I Succeeded So Sar as to have it in my power to show him, I did not think him So charming as he thought himself. However as to humbling hini was utterly impossible, for he only despised my Judgement, and arrived to an utter Contempt of me. yo, u See I do not Scruple owning to you my Folly; nor do I think, if I had been a little older, there could have been any excuse for Such a trifling Behaviour. This was the only Man I really was a Coquette to, and yet he was the only one who did not report me to be So; for he endeavoured to make the World believe, that it was his own Sault he did not n^arry me. If I was to tell you the Number of Coxcombs who Sanded I gaw them Encouragement, whilst I never had one Serious Thought about them, it would be endless; and besides thete was So little Variety in
th^k
 I
their Characters, that it would be only repeating the Same thing over again.
My Mother was greatly delighted t6 See I was not inclined to fix my Affections, and file began to hope I should go through the World without it; but I was almost weary of this manner of lise, and was made very uneasy from the Spite of Some People, whom I could never find out; for they took Opportunities of stabbing me in the dark, and made me feel the Blow, while the Hand that gave it was concealed. I never appeared abroad, or went into any public Place, but I was Sure the next Morning to receive a Letter from an unknown Hand, in which every Part of my Behaviour, and even my dress was pull’d to pieces, and this under the pretence of the greatest Friendship and the most tender Regard for my Welfare. I had Several Hints given me, that I had got the Reputation of being even a Jilt, and that, if I did not leave off that way of Life, no Man of sense would ever Speak to me: nay,
on
L E T T E R IL
one of these good-natured Epistles went S( far as to tell me, that it was shrewdly sus pected, Mr. such a one (naming the ridiculous proud Man I have already told yot of) would not have sorsaken me, if I hat not granted him everything in my power My Mother laughed at this Malice, ane assured,, it was nothing but Women Envy at my having more Lovers than the) thought came to my share 5 or perhaps that this last was wrote by the Man himself, who being hurt by my Treatment o: him, took this Method of Revenge. Bui Shame, and a Fear of being thought ill of got the better of everything she could say and I began to reflect: on my own Folly ir indulging a trifling amusement, at the Expense of laying myself open to the Venom of malicious Tongues. This dwelled So strongly upon my Mind, that it made me as unhappy as if I had had Some real causcj till an Accident turned my Thoughts another way, and made me quite forget all these nonsenfical Letters, as much as if] had never received them.
Here
L E T T E R II 79
Here Ifabinda ceased, and I will for he present conclude myself,
Tour ever offesfionate Sijier,
e A MI L L AC
8o)
 II
Cynthia to Camilla at Eondoi
Dear Cam ill a, [From the Ba
IT H A N K you for the part you hi already Sent me of Ifabinda"^ Sto and make no doubt from your bei pleased with her Acquaintance, but tha Shall also be pleased with her History, have a great Compassion for her Moth for I cannot form an Idea of any Life miserable, as that of being continually w: persons, whom we have an involunta Inclination to love, whilst they every n nute give us undoubted Proofs of bei totally incapable of returning it. Ifabindi Youth is the Same excuse for her deali with Coxcombs, as insancy is for playi] with Rattles. But I hope to hear no mo of them; Sori look upon a Woman, wl has any converse with Such Sort of Fc lows, after she is Twenty, in full as ridici
lo
 II Si
lous a Light, as I Should on a Girl of Fifteen, who placed her Delight in playing with the Toys which were properly given her when five Years old. Or, in other words, I look upon the Conversation of Fools and general love makers, naturally to Succeed those Toys, which are the proper Furniture of a nursery, and think the Gratification of a light Vanity very excusable, and well adapted to the Age between childifhness, and that Maturity, when the Mind is Settled enough to form a Judgement of both Men and Manners,
IA M Sorbid to read with the Bath Waters; So that, when my dear Valentitte cannot give me his Company, I am obliged to amuse mysels the best I can with what Diversion the Place affords; and intend in this Letter to insorm you of everything, I Saw and heard yesterday during the whole Day: If it is trifling, I depend on my Camilla's good nature for Pardon; and am So well convinced of the friendly pleasure you take in hearing from me, that I think nothing inexcusable, but disobeying you in being Silenst
vol. I. D I
8  HI.
I W e N T at nine in the Morning to tin Pump room, when the playing of the Mu fic, joined to the Spirit of the warm Wa ter, raised my Imagination, and threw mi into that agreeable State of Mind, whicl makes us susceptible of every little Plea Sure that Accident throws in our way You know I never was ambitious of a ge neral Acquaintance, and here I have bu very little; for which reason I usually Si down in a Corner, and am left at free LI berty to make what Reflections I please The Harmony of Mufle cannot silene those People, whose Voices make the mol agreeable Sound in their own Ears: and observed Numbers round me, who wen talking with an earnestness, which to me ss a Stranger, Seemed to flow from Some thing worthy the greatest; Attention. Bu ainongst the various People who were there( assembled ^ whole conversation I heart ter Ibme time, was comprised in three oi four Sentences; Such as the Warmth oi coidness of the Weather, and notwithstanding it was one of the finest Days ] ev^r Saw, yet tiffs was one remark^j that
it
 II 83
t always rained at Bath; another was, he Glasses of Water which each particular lad drank that Morning; what Ladies rere early or late at the Pump room, with rhat mighty buiiness had kept them up he Night before, to prevent their regular Attendance on that Trijle their Health, fc.
I Cannot but Say, I osten wished liking incessantly was not looked upon to e So essential a Part of human happiness,
; to render two or three minutes Cessation f that liiighty pleasure, perfectly imprac cable even to those, who have nothing to ly. At last: I observed that two Ladies who ad gurtasyed with great good-humour to northeast hals of the Company, and Scornfully verlooked the other half, were staring me ill in the Face, as is they had Seen Soma loiister. Curiostty led me to hearken to lem, as I Seemed to be the Object oi shich their Attention was mostly fixed, nd I overheard one of them Say to the there; “I never Saw her before; I don’t
observe that any one of our Acquaintance, that is, anyone worth notice’. Speaks D 2 “to
84.  II
to her.” On 'which her Company replied; “.Dis certainly Some Creatm “Some infignijicant Wretch, who beii ‘‘ tired with having nobody to admire h but herself, has just: made her first; Jou ney to Bath, in order to display LI own aukwardness, and be the Diverfr “of all the good Company here." Re procal Contempt has Something in it, whi' is always ridiculous; and I could not he Smiling at the thought, hpw these Peop! Vanity, in their own Imagination, lift them to the Clouds, whilst: in the Eyes others they were placed ainongst: the low( ps human Race.
. I Blessed my good Fortune, whh had not cursed me with Such Acquai tance, whilst they were pitying, or rath laughing, at my Misfortune in not havh that only, that grand Stamp of Merit; anc could not forbear thinking, that nothii Js So justly the Object: of Scorn as a Pigm; that imagines itself a Qiant, or a Monke; which because it mimics the Actions, ar heecmes the Rival of the lowest part ^ the human Species, fancies itself on a lev
wh
 II
with all Mankind. And I really think an Observation I heard the other day is true, viz. that insolence and Impertinence generally take their rise from Some frnall Hint or Suspicion of Demerit in ourselves; For Sure no one would be So mad, as to leave the firm and Sure Footing of Merit (which when attended with Modesty, must be ate lowed eve by the Envious, and admired by others) to totter on the stippery Banks of Folly afid Impertinence, where every Step is dangerous, and all Beholders would willingly throw the poor Wretch to the ground, only for their own Diversion. Little Boys, when they forsake a broad dry Path, to wade up to their Knees through Dirt and Mire, are not more childish than these fine Ladies, when, - instead of endeavouring to gain Esteem and Admiration by a Conduct worthy of them, they Spend their whole Lives in affecting a Superiority, which it Would not cost them so much really to attain. But I have observed, that ail Pride, by turning the Head giddy with either real or imaginay Weight, overlooks the Steps leading up to its own Gratification.
D 3 A
8  III
A S C E N E I was once witness of u the Country, in my Opinion was a stronj Picture of human Life. A poor Gii by being always told from her Cradle that she was very handsome, grew ma with Vanity, and fancied herself a Queer Her whole Delight was placed in gatherin up Rags and Patches to make her a Trai Suitable to the great Dignity of her ima gined Station : but the Page being wantir to hold up this Emblem of Grandeur, have myself Seen her walk through plought Grounds, dragging her long Train after he till at last: being clogged with Dirt, it h came So heavy, she was unable to carry any farther, and Sunk down under tl Weight of this her coveted, patched u fancied Sign of Honour and Stateline: The Boys used to hoot her as she piisse and call her by way of derision, her M jesty of the Embroidered Train. I Seldo pass a Day,, but this poor Girl is broug to my Renlembrance, and Sometimes ca: not help laughing, when I See people stru ting and Sweating under the Weight Seme Superiority they have been so good
 IL 87
to give themselves whilst: they appear to me ia the Situation of this poor mad Creature 5 and I look on them but as So many Queens of the Embroidered Train.
But to leave this Subject; : From the Pump the greatest part of die Company adjourned to the Coffee room, which is frequented by both Gentlemen and Ladies. Here the conversation was So mix’d, and the Subjects So various, that it w' as difficult to distinguilli the Voice or Sentiments of one person from another. I could hardly Sorbear thinking, I was in that Creek of Nova Zemhla Mr. Bickerjiaff mentions in his Extract from Sir fohn Mandeville Journal, where the Cold was So intense, as to Sreeze the very Words as they were uttered. The Sun shone very bright, and I was almost led to imagine, that by its Warmth and Vigour, the Speeches which had been long congealed by Cold, were now melting in my Ears, to which only I could impute the Variety of Sounds which at once invaded me. Religion, Politics, Gaming, Dancing, Dressing, in short almost every Topic pf piscourfe the Land guage
8  III
guage affords, was discussed; and it wai very comical to hear at once the Action; of Statesmen canvass’d, and the exact Manner of pinning a Ribbon, or placing t Patch, eloquently criticised on. And yc by one circumstance Spoken of by Sir John the frost Seemed yet to continue : “Foi
‘‘ whether he was heard or no, every Mar
was Senlible he Spoke as well as ever.”
After this. Scene I went home tc Breakfast, where you may be sure I Spen my time agreeably; for your dear brothe; met me there in perfect Health, and i am Sure it would be needless to add, in grea good-humour.
From thence I proceeded to the Room? where the Crowd was So great, it was; witi some difficulty I could move. It was ob servable, that, altho’ the Heat occafionec by the great Concourse of People was excessive, yet all the Ladies were in Capuchins, Bonnets, Muffs (which latter \tert worn aiso by Some of the Gentlemen) anc in every dress which could be contrivec for Warmth, as much as if, they shad reall)
beer
 IL 89 been in Nova Zembla. I ashed an Acquaintance what could be the meaning that People contrived to clothe themselves So inconveniently. She laughed, and replied, it was the fashionable Morning dress, and she did not in the least: doubt, but Custom might introduce the wearing er min and Fur in the hottest: Country in Europe : for that she was Satisfied the Gratification of Vanity would take from the greatest: part of the World the sense of feeling even Heat or Cold. I did not go near the roly poly or Card tables, for you know I have no Sort of pleasure in Play; but I Sound all those who were walking about, or rather standing still for want of room to stir, complained violently of the disagreeableness of being thus thrust and Squeezed, and yet did not at all endeavour to get out of it. This put me in mind of Dr. Swiss ^ Man in the Crowd, who complained greatly of the uneafiness of being in the press; and yet did not remember, till reminded by one who stood next him, that he could without any trouble remove his own Pain, and make more room for others. I overheard Several Ladies
go  II
dies give it as a reason for enduring thi great Punishment, that the Variety there relaxed their Thoughts, and kept them Sror the Pain of Thinking, which was not goo with the Waters. I could not help havin a Curiostty to hear the conversation C whoever made this Speech; and I general found, it was much ado about nothing and that they were only putting themselve to a very unnecessary Trouble, to preyer that Pain which Seemed not likely of be falling them, even though they had la boured as much (as a Lady once did t learn to love Reading) to have procured it.
I WAS Soon tired of being here, and II the asternoon went to make a Vistt: Th Lady of the house was very young am gay; she was just: married, and had givei a Fortune of ten thousand Pounds to a Mai whom she neither loved nor hated : but h could make her a Settlement answerable t( it, had a good Character, her Friend thought it right to have her Settled in thi World, and she had too much Indifferenc in her Temper, not to comply with wha they destred; her whole Time was triflet
awa^
L E T T E R IIL 91
away in dress and Company, which she thought Such mighty bufiness, that one continual Hurry ran through her whole Life j and her house was the common Rendezvous of all those who, like herself, fancy themselves employed by being in a Room with a great many People, and always thrust: into a Crowd because they have nothing else to do. Elmira this lady’s Sister, who lived with her, will antwer to the Description of a Beauty; and yet I can’t Say she looks like one : for she has a Set of regular Features added to a fine Complexion, and very good brown Hair, and yet Such an inlensibility appears in her Countenance, that I rather lament So much is thrown away than am pleased with what she really has. However, she is reckoned handsome, and has Some Admirers; for there are in the World Men who are taste less enough to like by Rule; and being ignorant of all those little hameless Elegancies which are the greatest: Charms of even Beauty itseff, go away well pleased with their Mistreffes, when they can describe them to thein Companions in what they diink an amiable Light. Corydon, a young
Gentleman
9  Ilf.
Gentleman of this Sort, Sat by Elmira; he took all Opportunities of making complte ment& to her; and yet I thought it was easily to be perceived, that he was much more pleased with his own Speeches, than with the Object: to whom he addressed them. It would be endless to run through all the Company in the Room, for it was quite Sull: but I happened to sit near Corydon and Elmira, which made me more particularly observe them. An agreeable Senlible Woman was next me, and addressed most part of her conversation to me; and on talking of Variety of Subjects, took out of her Pocket a Letter she had received that Morning from a young Lady, wrote in verse, and desired my Opinion of it. The Thoughts were all nervous and strong, the Expressions pure and elegant, and the verse flowed with the greatest ease imaginable; So that I could not avoid expressing my Admiration of it. Corydon and Elmira overheard what we were talking of, and begged, if there were no Secrets in the Letter, they might have the pleasure of hearing it. I know nothing enrages People who are void of Taste So much as Seeing

 II 93
ing they are Sound out; and theresore, with the lady’s Leave, immediately read it aloud to them; but Such an Inundation of Envy and low Spite burst from the Lips of these two People, (who by the Injudicious are called good natupd because they are silly) as made me sigh at the Malignity there is in human Nature : and yet there was Something So ridiculous in both their Manner and Words, that I could not help Smiling. Elmira Said, She thought writing Poetry did not become a Woman, there was Something too masculine in it; on which Corydon replied, with a Sneer com posed of Folly and Malice, “Do you think. Madam, those Lines are really a Wo“ “? I dare Say this Lady has Some “Husband, Father, or Brother, who gave “them to her, though they pass in her Name; for without Learning, it is impossible for any one to write So well.” I asked the Gentleman, is he imagined none could express their Thoughts in any Language who did not understand Several ^ To which he made no answer, but Sell to adjusting his Cravat, rubbing his Beard, and repeating Some Latin verses, in which I
was
94-  ir.
was asterwards told by a Gentleman in Company, he committed many Blunders; and concluded with affirming, he was Sure those verses were wrote by a Man. It was not worth while to Say any more. Elmira did not agree with Corydon, that Women could not write; but fixing her Eyes on a Glass opposite her, Said She believed some Women might be capable of writing, if they had not Judgement enough to know it was not proper for them. Then Sollowed an Argument between the Gentleman and the Lady, which had the Superiority in poini of Understanding, Man or Woman? I Sal a little while by way of Diversion, and plainly perceived that Corydon was resolved to go through the Difficulty of finding a wise fillier than himsels j and that Elmira was equally resolute never to marry a Man who liked her for her Face, unless he had also So deep a Penetration as to find out her Genius. But as I did not know how long this Conversation might last, I Soon grew tired : For although sense and Truth, when all is exhausted that can be Said on a Subject:, will find a Period; the bottomless, the inexhaustible Fund ofnonsense, (especially
L E T T E R IIL 95
cially when Supported by an eagerness that arises from Envy) can find no end. I therefore took my Leave, and lest them to carry on their dispute as high as they pleased; whilst I was happy enough to have it in my power to escape being any longer stun’d with it. I left them with a resolution, that for the future, whenever I had a mind to amuse myself, I would go amongst People of sense, who alone can trifle well; where the fillier Part of Mankind affect to Scorn everything that is not wise; and from an Endeavour to Show their own Understandings, eternally tease their unhappy Companions with their laboured, heavy, trite Sentiments.
I HAD not been returned to my Lodgings half an Hour besore Valentiyie brought home two Gentlemen of his Acquaintance to Spend the Evening with us. You well know, Camilla., whatever Company is agreeable to him, is ib to me: And I met them with a chcarfulness which always attends the Certainty of being used well. That restrained Ceremony which Seems to conceal Some lurking Thought, that if
known
9  III
known might shame the Possessor, and tl rudeness which every moment declares Mind entirely void of Shame, are to n equally detestable : And I every day rest on my happiness, that I am married to Man whose own Behaviour Sets an Exan pie to all his Companions to treat me wit real good Breeding. One of these Ger tlemen has a Fund of Wit and Entertair ment in him I never met with besore. H Conversation is at once So lively, one ca hardly imagine he has time to think, an yet So Solid and judicious, it is almost impossible to conceive but every Thought mul arise from the most deliberate Reflection The only Foible I could perceive in hin was a frequent Sneer he put on, when h( was talking of others. He osten put m( in mind of two Lines in a Translation o: Perjius'% Satires; where Horace is thu: described :
The Crowd he fneepd, but fneepd with such a Grace,
It pafid for downright innocence of Face,
A
 II 97
A Delight ill a low Ridicule I thought beneath a Man of his Parts, and was really Sorry to suspect he had any the least Failing. But what made the Scene diverting, was the other gentleman’s answering full as well to two Lines in another Satire of the Same Author, where the Mirth of Fools is thus displayed :
On each bold Nose a wrinkling Sneer is found. And quavering Laughter echoes loud around.
When the oa^ had dole Sneering, the other always began to imitate him; by which means he had the missortune of wrinkling his nose, when it should have been Smooth; and quavering with Laughter, when the Jest was over. Thus the Jest often falls on himsels, and he is in the Same case with Pierrot, who, when he fancies he has nothing more to do than to get light of Harlequin, and mimic his Step, to be able to follow him in all his Windings and Turnings, often finds that for want of the Same powerful Wand which the other possesses, he is left in disgrace, and ex posed to the Ridicule of the whole au y o t. I. E dience.
9  III
dience. But aster the Gentlemen were gone Valentine informed me, that the Mi whose Understanding I So much applaude Would be glad never to have an Oppo tunity of Sneering; that he is a true Friar to every Man he finds worthy of 1: Esteem, is always glad to meet with i Object; of it, and only laughs instead crying, to keep up his own good humou and that of the Company: But that tl there Gentleman envies the very People 1 affects to despise;; is a, puller down others, in hopes by that means to raise I own little Value the higher. But I their it is now time to finish this long Epistl My Duty attends the Author ost and n: Love the Preserver of, my Valentine ar Camilla's Lives; and believe me ever
Tour mojl affeuidnate Sijier,
And obedient humble Servant,
C y N T H I i
( 99)
..... ¦__........... ........
 V
Camilla to Cynthia at the Bath.
Dear Cynthia, [Fromhondionl
AS I know you will have a great cu riolity to hear the Remainder of ifa bindes Story, I will make no prcsaee to detain you from it. She went on thus:
EMIL I A, 2. young Lady with whom I had been very intimate from the time I came to Town, called on me one Morning, and invited me to Spend the Evening with her, to See a Gentleman her Brother was to bring to Sup with him at her house, who was reckoned one of the most ingenious Men of the Age, Natural Curiosity to See a person So remarkable, inclined xm to accept the Invitation. I thanked my Companion for endeavouring to amuse me, and waited on her at the Hour appointed.
E 2 There
loo  V
There were Seven of us in Company : how ever, I expected from the Character I ha heard of this Gentleman, (whom Sorts future I shall call Philocles) that all of they would be inodeft and diffident of then Selves where he wasj and place their chi Delight in hearing him talk. But I W greatly disappointed; for I never heard; many People talk together, and Such confused Jargon as there was that Evenin_ in all my lifetime. So that Philocles h not an Opportunity to Speak one word. L deed most of the Conversation was at dressed to him, but without waiting so or defiling an answer.
I Could not Sorbear reflecting all nig! on the oddness of this Scene, and the northeast: morning went early to my Friend, and d( fired her to tell me what could tempt a those People to babble to Such a degre that one could not have the pleasure ( hearing Philocles Speak. She Smiled, “ar “told me that she intended to have give *‘ mean agreeable Entertainment by havin ‘‘ only her Brother and Philocles of tl y Party 5 and that the rest, by a mifial
LETTER, IV loi
'd of the Servants, got in by chance. But, continued she, the moment they Saw who was here, there was no possibility of getting them out of the house without being downright rude. For you must know tjiis is a Tax all People must: pay, who have the pleasure of Philoclef^ Acquaintance. The very Sew Judicious “who know him, admire and love him;
and from thence he has got the reputa 5* tion of being a Man of great Parts. ‘‘ Fame itself barely does him justice; but '' you must imagine the number of Fools who pretend they admire him, are too “tasteless really to enjoy his conversation, “or even to find out, had they not been V told So, that he has any Superiority over “the rest of Mankind : For all his Ideas “are too strong, and his Wit too refined “to be understood by the Multitude. He “is no great talker; for he is above the “low Vanity of showing his Par's, and “whatever he Says Seems to flow from tie “generous Motive of giving others pka “Sure, whilst the Constderation of himleif appears to be totally neglected. Indeed y it is impossible he should find Subjects E 3 “enouga
10  IV
enough of discourse to be continual “talking; since he is equally incapable venting nonsense, or of giving way the base Malignity which makes the Ir persectiions and Frailties of others t Objects of Mirth and Ridicule. The alone which are hurtsul to Society inc his Satire, which is always as gentle it is just. The only Mark by which \ can know it, is pointed at Mens Saul and does not take its rise from eith Envy or Hatred to the Men themselvi Besides, he has Such a Command Words, that he expresses his Thougl “in fewer by far than are necessary f others to make themselves underftoot So that the Same Sentiment which wou employ Some Men a considerable tin even to make it intelligible, in his Mir would be at once conceived and cloathe and then brought to light with Sm ease, that it would appear to have bee thought on by him ever since he w y capable of thinking, ”
This advantageous Character of Ph kcks made me easily comprehend, wl
 V 1q3
Men of sense Should delight to be continually with him : But Still I was at a loss to know, why Such Sort of People as those that flun’d him with their npise the Night before, should preser his Company to that of others; and on telling my Thoughts Emilia, she replied, “That she thought “she had explained that to me, by telling
V me it was his Fame alone that drey them after him; but, added she, since you do not Seem to understand how that
‘‘ can be, I will let you into the Secret. “You miift know there are numbers of “People whose only pleasure in Conver “Sationis the Gratification of their va nity. Now there are no persons So very ‘‘ silly, but may meet with Some Admirers “in their own class; but that does not “Satisfy them: they are unhappy, unless“ “can be approved by Men that are
V thought to have sense. This is the reason why Philocles is So much Sought after, even by those who would dislike
V him, and think him dull, if they had ‘5 never heard of him before. His Hatred
pf their manner of talking makes him
V remain in silence; which they always
E 4 y impute
1g  IV
impute to his Attention to, and Adn ration of them, (that Error which 1 Inclination on its fide, is always eal given way to) and when they ha blundered out Volleys pf nonsense in. ‘‘ Ears, they go horn satisfy’d with! “Approbation, and pleased with t “Thought how agreeable it is to Spe their time with Men of Wit and Tal make a firm resolution to avoid the Co: ‘‘ pany of all Fools as long as they li“ “indeed So far they keep up to “that they are alone as Seldom as poffil Their own great Opinion of themsel “not being Food enough to satissy greediness of their Vanity, whilst pi Philocles cannot presently recover “senses, after they have thus persecu ‘‘ him; and, like Horace in Ben. johnjt “Poetaster, begins to sar it will be “Fate to be talked to death, The. “tempt of these People to gain hisefte
V is Sull as vain as that of building “Totver of Babel ever was; and wl
V there is more than one of them, it “nerally has the Same Effect; and tu P the whole conversation into Such an i
y intellig
 V 105
intelligible Jargon, as you heard last “night. But the worst is, in this case the “Punishment Sails on their unhappy “Hearers, and not on themselves. They “fancy the Tower is built, and reach their “imagined Heaven, whilst others feel it falling about their Ears, and in the va riety of Tongues losc the Idea of the real use of Speech."
ithanked Etnilia for her insorma tion, and told her, if she could procure an Opportunity of letting me See Philocles, when we might enjoy his Conversation, I should be obliged to her for indulging me in that pleasure; and on her promise to bring it about as Soon as possible, I took my Leave. The Interval between this and my Seeing him again. seem’d as So much time lost; for as this was my only Point in view, all other things appeared as nothing to me; and yet I was So ignorant, I imputed this entirely to a Desire of conversing, and being acquainted with a Man of So extraordinary a Character, as Emilia had given qs Philocles, without the least suspicion of my Heart's being at all concerned in it:
However,,
io  V
However, my Joy was almost: incredibl the next time Emilia told me I might Spen the Evening with him.
A T this Second Interview, She took car to'stint out all Intruders; and we wer really merry without Noise, and entertaine without Malice; the Satisshdtion of th whole Company Seemed to be placed i pleasing each other, and, without the re straint of any ridiculous Ceremony, true politeness reigned. In short, we passed oui Time So agreeably, that I wish’d m; whole Life could be Spent in the Same man; ier, nor did I know a Wish beyond it.
Though' Men often fall in our Esteem from our having previousty heard grea Characters of them; yet Philocles more thai answered my Expectations. The Judiciouf ness and real Wit with which his whol Conversation abounded, could be equallet by nothing but the sensibility of his Looks and his Eyes and Tongue Seemed to be a ftrise which should have the greatest: shan in uttering thct good sense, which wa contained within.
, ]
 V 107.
1 W E N T home So Sull of the Idea of him, that all his Words reechoed in my Ears; and my Imagination placed his Form before my Eyes, even when he himsels was at a great distance from me.
Now, instead of amustng myself with Coxcombs, I delighted in being alone; for all Company grew irksome to me; and when I was obliged to be in any, I was So absent in my Thoughts, that I often made wrong answers; and all my Acquaintance wondered what could be the cause of Suck an Alteration. I was greatly perplexed to find out whether Emilia was not my Rival; She Seemed So eloquent in Philocles'^ praises, that I Seared she liked him (indeed I thought Seeing and loving him was the Same thing) yet she did not Seem in that confu iion when she talked of him, as I should have been, had I but mentioned his Name. This was Some Small Comfort, but yet I was not Satisfied; I Sormed a thousand Schemes in my Head to find out the Truth, but could get no Opportunity of putting ny of shem in execution. At last: my
Friend
io  V
Friend (who was older, and knew more > «> the World than I did) perceived my Ui ealiness, and kindly relieved me, by affurir me, “that, altho’ she had a great efleei
for Philocles, yet her Heart had been ( “therwise engaged a long time.” I w as much rejoiced at her telling me this, if I had been Sure of his Inclination Sroi that moment, and this had been the on Obstacle in my way to what I thought Ha] piness,
PHIL OCLES now possessed all rr Thoughts; and I had no other Idea of Pie; Sure, but what was to arise from the Seeir and converstng with him. I grew So pei five, that my Mother Soon perceived II and her greatest; Sear was my having ar violent Attachment, She was not long pe plexed to guess the Caush of my Anxiet) her Importunity extorted from rpe ^ Coi feshon of the Truth. This she looked C as a stgn I should be willing to take h( Advice; but I verily believe the true M( tive of my not concealing it from her, w; the great pleasure I took in talking of ir favourite Subject, and the Impossibility
Sour
L E T T E R IV idg
sound of attending to any other. She seemed pleased with the Description I gavp of Philocles, and assured me; “That if,
“besides his other Accomplishments, he “was capable of a strong Affection, and “chose me for the Object osit, she should “have no Objections to my following iny own Inclinations.”
ilooked on this as an Approbation of my Passion; and as I thought I read in my lover’s Looks, that I was far from being indifferent to him, I began to flatter myself a little time would bring about all I wished. Emilia was So good-natured, that she took every Opportunity, without putting me to the confusion of ashing it, of letting me See my Lover; and he Soon ashed Leave to visit me. I did not hesitate a moment in granting his Request:, nor indeed was it in my power.
N o w the very distant hope that I might See him but one quarter of an hour, was Sufficient to keep me at home the whole Day; and the first: time he came, I hap pened to be alone, This shterview entrely
finished
IIO  V finished his Conquest:; and it would hai been sruitless to have endeavoured tl struggling with a Passion, which Refistani would have only inflamed the inore. V talked of indifferent Subjects, nor did 1 once mention the word Love: This imputed to his respect for nie; and it impossible to describe she happiness I ei joyed during the time he was with m Two Hours appeared to my Imaginatio but two Minutes; and I wondered how 1 could leave me So Soon. I was alinost tempte to have desired him to stay longer, an would have given the world for any plai fible excuse to have done So. He left me; in a Dream; and, instead of any power t fix my Thoughts on what Subject I pleasei my Fancy wandered through every Woi he had Said; and his every Look an Gesture Seemed as present to me.
I Found fault in my Mind wish ever Part of my Behaviour; Sometimes I wj afraid my Love had appeared too plain, an I should be the Obj^ of Philocles*^ Cor tempt. Then Shame and consufion toi mented me to Such a degree, shat I re I Solve
 V Ill
Solved the next time I Saw him (whatever Pangs it cost me) to conceal my Passion, Then in a moment, without any reasoif for changing my Opinion, I reflected on Some trifling thing I had Said, which I fancied would give him reason to believe I had no liking to him at all; and consequently make him endeavour to cure that great pajjion I was convinced he had for me. Now as quick as Lightning I changed my Resolution, wished he would come back again, that I might even own my Love, left the endeavouring to conceal it, should give me the Air of a Coquette, and make me despicable, where I most desired to be esteemed. In short, I could not Satisfy mysels, but that there was Something blame able in my Conduct; and the Anxiety arising from this Fancy was as great as could have been caused by any real Affliction.
From this time I shunned all my Acquaintance, except Emilia, whose Understanding encreased every day in my eyes: For she indulged me in talking of Phihdes;
and
II  V
and my whole Delight, when absent Sr him, was in her Conversation. •
»
My Mother would osten talk of hii but She Saw me So prepossessed in his your, that her Fears for my Welfare m; her endeavour a little to palliate the Violei of my Love, till I could See by his Bel viour whether misery might not be i consequence of indulging it. But I \ deaf to all Remonstrances of this kind, a everything grew tiresome to me but 1 dwelling on Philoclefs Perfections; nor ( I once doubt my happiness, till he ma me a Declaration of his Love, or, to Spe more properly, till he offered himself be my Husband. Then all my Blindn could not hide the coidness and Carele ness of his Manner; and he lest me me dissatisfied with him than I had been Sro the time I first: had the pleasure of fe ing him. His Behaviour dwelled strong on my Mind, and which ever way I tured it, I could not but See that he h: either naturally a calm dispofition not be ruffled by the Passion of Love, or th
L E T T E R IV 113
1 was not the Object: of it. From this Thought started an imaginary Rivali and I racked myself with jealousy of I knew not what. At length, worn out with Perplexity, the Mind of itsels turned to more pleasing Ideas, and in Philocles's Charms his Indifference and my Rival vanistied; and I had no other thoughts but when I should be So happy as to See Philocles again.
This happened to me Several timesj and I really think nothing this World can give, could counterbalance the Pain I Suffered in the many anxious Hours I then Spent. My Mother was continually talking to me of Philocles, and inststed (if I was not resolved to plunge myself in misery my whole Life) on my breaking off all Commerce with him. I could not but agree with her, that my lover’s calm and philosophick Temper was not formed to return a Passion Such as mine, and that it would be utterly impossible for me to be happy in his Indifference.
vol. I. F I
II  V
I Often reflected, that had not Shar withheld me, I could daily have Sou Opportunities of Seeing him, which he northeast lected, and Seemed contented to meet w: me just as it was convenient; nor did once contrive to remove the least: Obsta to effect it. I was too strongly convim by what I felt myself, that every Tr which has the Smallest: degree of Connect with the Object beloved, is worked up the Imagination of a Lover to be of i utmost consequence, not to See that P locks could not deserve that Name.
I Often blamed mysels for turn the most agreeable Acquaintance in World into a disagreeable Lover: so imputed his thinking of me at all entii to his reading in my very Looks, h much I liked him. But notwithstand these Conflderations, and ten thousand m( which by turns Succeeded in my Mind, clination was too powerful for them i and I could not resolve to give him up ever. He was not to be dallied with;
 V 115
his own want of Passion prevented his taking any delight in those Trifles which, where there is great Love and tenderness, are always pleasing;; his insisting on an answer, reduced me to the Dilemma of either consenting to marry him, or relign ing him for ever. It was very easy for me to refuse him, whilst I thought I could See him again, and have it in my power to alter my Mind; but the very Idea that I must lose him without any hopes of re °
trieval, was So horrible I could not bear it:
For at that time I had no notion that it was possible for me ever to conquer my Passion.
Whenever I was with my Mother, stie pressed me So earnestly not to abandon myself to misery, and was So reasonable in her Sentiments, that I could not help agreeing with her: But the very momept I was lest to myself, I argued So strongly in the behalf of Philocles, that he always got the better of all my resolutions. I began to think, that as he was both the Object: of Esteem and Admiration, it was more noble and generous to love him, without ex f 2 pecting
ii  V
pecting any equal return, than if he h been capable of it. I went even So Sar to cherish and indulge the Thought, tl violent fondness might perhaps be a Frai and Weakness in Nature; and for that n Son the only Man who appeared to me have every Perfection, was exempt from emmd.’s Resolution to love Henry, n( withstanding all he Said to her in that mi Jiery Trial, made her in my eyes a perst Heroine. I was Sully persuaded, that make another’s Affection for me the Fou dation of mine, must be owing to t greatest selfilhness imaginable; and I look down with Scorn on a Thought So mean.
IT is incredible, with what contempt viewed every Woman who has no Choi of her own, but gives herself to the fii Man who pretends he loves her. All H nour and goodness was immediately ce] tered by me in Setting the highest Value t Merit, without any Consideration of ou Selves; and my Fancy dressed up this Phai tom of a disinterested Love in So mar amiable Shapes, and Such various Charm that I grew fond of the Image: And tl
momei
 V 117
moment I could thus make the Sollowing my own Inclinations the Road to possessing the highest: Virtue, all Objections to phl lodes vanistied; and I had Sound out a Method at once to indulge my Love, and gratify my Pride.
M Y only Care was, which way I could make myself most: amiable in the eyes of the Man, for whom my Affection and Esteem were equal. Hitherto I had never once Seen him; but I asterwards disapproved of my own Behaviour, and indeed I believe with great reason; for I was So confused from the moment he entered the Room, that it was with great difficulty I could bring myself to Speak; and when I had Resolution enough not to be dumb, I dare Say I uttered the greatest nonsense imaginable J Sori knew not what I Said: And I believe it is generally the case, that People appear to the greatest Disadvantage, where they are most anxious to please. But whilst 1 was thus fluctuating and unresolved how to act, another Gentleman, to whom I will give the Name of plorio, who Saw me by chance, declared himsels my Lover. His.
F g Fortune
ii  V
Fortune was So great, that itwasimpoffib for me to suspect: him of Insincerity. h was an agreeable Man, very lively in h Conversation, and had Something So II expreffibly amiable and sost in his Man that I believe Sew Women could haven fisted his Addresses. This at first gave rr great pleasure, as I hoped it might kind a jealousy in the Breast of Philocles, ar warm him into a stronger Love. Flor was quite the reverse of the other; for h Pastions were So violent, that it was equall difficult to keep him within any Bounds < Moderation; or to raise in Philocles or Thought which could ruffle that philc Sophick Mind of his, and make him Ser fible of the Power of Love.
I w A s now in the oddest Situation i the World; I sighed, because I could nc give the Man I liked Florid Warmth C Affection, nor take my Inclination Sron the only Object I had ever Seen capable o giving me pleasure. But the conversinj with this new Lover, which I did but fel dom, had quite a contrary Effect Sron what 1 expected. Philocles was indeec 3 jealous
L E T T E R IV II
jealous J but it was not the jealousy of a Sond Lover, but of a reasonable Man, who being unwilling to be deceived, was resolved to examine everything in the nicest manner. As I had hefitatcd Some time in giving him an answer, he imagined I had only a mind to have a Variety of Lovers, and he could not bear the thoughts of dangling after any Woman, only to please her Vanity, and be made a Fool of. He came several times, when unsortunately, and much against: my Inclinations, I happened to be So engaged in Company, that he could not get an Opportunity of Speaking to me alone. This he construed as an Artifice of mine to avoid coming to any Explanation; and with the utmost Indifference went out of Town, without even taking leave of me.
A Man who would marry a Woman only because he does not dislike her, and thinks her Circumstances convenient for him, is easily put from the pursuit, especially when he is not covetous; which waa Philoclefs case.
F 4 When
12  IV
When first I knew he was gone i that abrupt manner without Speaking t me, I was almost distracted. It is impel fible to describe the many various Pastior which agitated my Mind. One moment loved, and the other hated, with the ut most Vehemence. And now that Grie was become my greatest Indulgence, I be gan to Sancy it the greatest Virtue. Th more I was mortified, the greater I ima gined was my Constancy; and Constanc in Love, (whether with, or without reason) must be Something heroical. An had not Pride helped me to this Small Com fort, I verily believe the loss of Philock would have been my Death. But from th Resolution of never liking any other Man I Sancied mysels a Heroine; and stamp and tore my Hair with all the Dignity of; Tragedian : And I have diverted mysel since with the Reflection, that I believet at the very instant my whole Soul wa filled with Anxiety, that I had the utmof Contempt for the World, and Should neve: care for anything in it again.
 V 121
I Wrote a hundred Letters to phl lodes, and burnt them all as Saft; Sori could not find one to please me: Some were too Sorward, others too cold; one Minute I could condescend to anything, rather than he should have an ill Opinion of me; the next I was So convinced of his Indifference, that I thought all Endeavours to bring him back would be vain; and could not bear to Subject: myself to yet greater Affronts.
At first I took an utter aversion to Plorio, thinking he had been the cause of all my missortunes; but by Some Accident I was prevented from Seeing him Sora Week J by which time my Passion greatly Subflded; and, to own my weakness, I began to be pleased with his Love. Whether it was that the despair and great uneafiness which for Some time had involved my Mind, made me glad to take hold of any the least: Hope of pleasure; or, as I was disappointed of the Gratification of my real sostest: Inclinations, Vanity was then most predominant in me; or whether
the
12  IV
the Violence of Florio Addresses flatterei me into the most: agreeable Opinion of m; Self, and kept my Pride alive, I cannot dc termine. But this is certain, that he gre\ every day more and more tolerable to me and in a Short time, (with the Exceptio; only of Some few Sighs, that Florio coul not look and Speak like Philocles, or PU locks love like Florio) I became Satisfy with the Company of the latter; with thi Difference in my present Lover's favoui that all that Confusion and uneafiness whici commonly attended me, when with Phi locks, was now entirely vanished; and could sit as calmly to hear Florid Love as any Statue doth besore its Votaries, whe: blind Superstition first: imagines it a Deity and then adores it.
T H E appearance of f/(?r/vs Tendernel engaged my Mother totally on his fide besides it is very natural, even for Peopl who are sincere in their Friendship toward another, a little to forget Inclinations, whei not their own, and incline mostly to a Su periority of Fortune. In short, her Pei Suafions, his Importunities, joined to
Hatre
 V 123
Hatred I had from my Infancy of continually resuiing what I was ashed, almost prevailed on me to marry him; nor dp I believe anything could have hindered it, but my accidentally hearing a Character of him, which made me resolve to break it off. An Acquaintance of mine, on talking one day of Variety of People, happened to name Florio as a person She had known a long time. She was quite ignorant there was any Engagement between us j and I appeared desirous of knowing his real Character, laying the knowledge of it would be of great consequenee to a Friend of mine. She replied, “IS it would be osany “service to me, she would tell it me par“ “” and on my earnest Request, she obliged me in the following manner.
“You must know, Madam, Florio was “once a Lover of mine; he was then the “youngest of three Brothers, and had but “a distant prospect of the Estate he now i “possesses. However, his Love appeared “So sincere, and his Heart So tender, that “he engaged me in a Passion I could not “resist, and I resolved tp marry him. Our
first
12  IV
“first: Acquaintance came by his accider “tally lodging in the Same house wit me. You may be Sure his becoming m “Lover, did not make him change hi " Lodgings. Almost: every Morning I wt disturbed with the crying of a little Do“ “I fancied Some Children, who wer “in the house, were pulling about, an “teasing for their Diversion, as is common ‘‘ ly the case; but one day the Dog cried I ‘‘ long and So loud, that I could not he!
inquiring into the cause of it. I me “my Landlady on the Stairs, and asked ht ‘‘ what was the meaning of all that noise “She Seemed So full of mirth aud laugh “ter, it was Some time besore (he couli ‘‘ give me an answer; at last She told me “That was beating his Dog, becauf “he fancied it did not love him; for is i “did not come to him the minute h “called it, he grew into the most violen “Rage. But the more he beat and abufei “it, the more unwilling the Dog was t( ‘‘ come to him : and Sometimes he em “ployed himself hals the Morning in al “ternately whipping and wheedling thi “poor little Animal, I Said nothing t(
 V 125
my Landlady, but this made a great im preflion on my Mind. I took the first: " Opportunity of ashing Florio about it: “being not good at disguifing his Senti“ “he owned the Truth, Saying that “he never abused the poor Beast:, but “when he fancied he was So ungrateful, “as to have no Affection for him; and that “then he Suffered ten times more tor ments than he could inflict on the Dog, “Sor that the Reflection of having mis“ “him was Pain intolerable. I took “little notice at that time j but this raised “Ideas in my Head, that I never thought “on before. I began to think, if Florio “was capable of thus barbarously treating “anything he fancied he loved, only from a slight jealousy that his Love was not “returned, that then all that sostness which appeared in his dispofition, could arise “from nothing, but an overgrown ten derness for himself, which he was un able perfectly to satissy; and therefore “he Substituted another Object, only to “extend his own Enjoyments. Besides, I ‘‘ thought there must be a great Mixture y of Pride, with an Affection which rey
quired
126 L E T T E R IV
“quired So much Flattery to gratify i “and was very apt to suspect, that a: “Woman, who had art enough to ma “him believe she had a violent Passion 1 “him, might easily at any time be n “Rival. I was So sincere in my Love ai “Esteem for him, that I could not ha “avoided showing an uneafiness at a “wrong Behaviour of his to any t “meanest Creature in the world. Tl “would at once have hurt his Tendern * “for himfef, and his Pride; So that “should have stood but a bad chance “keeping him; and shat Thought a “peared to me So horrid, I resolved “break With him at once, and never “put my sels in his power.”
Here she Lady ceased; I thanked h for telling me what she knew of Fkr and then turned the conversation on i different Subjects.
When I came home, and was at lib( ty to reflect, I was very much perplexed what she had told me. Sometimes I fa cied she might be piqued at Some Bel
vie
L E T T E R IV 127
viour of Florio, and have wronged him in her Report. However, I was resolved to try him, and the next time he came, behaved with Somewhat more coidness towards him than usual. Had he reproached me gently for it, I should have looked on it as a proof of his Love; but he abused me in terms he could not have used, had he not been in a violent Passion. I then immediately thought of the poor little Deg, and rejoiced I was not in his power. Here my Judgement had room to play; for I had never any real Inclination for Florio, nothing more than mere Accident would have brought about the Marriage, is it had happened. I Saw plainly, that instead of that dispofition which delights in anothers good, all his tenderness was for himself: and I can no more think the Man benevolent, who lays out his Affection, in hopes to encrease his stock by a more than equal return, than I can think the miser generous, when he lends out hir Money for exorbitant Interest. from^this time vanished entirely from my Thoughts: I refused him, and he looked on me as a
jiltv
12  IV
Jilt, because I would notconsent to make i sels miserable, to indulge his Inclination:
IHAVE often wished there were for bounds Set to what Men call Encourag ment, that it might not be thought Crime in us to desire Some little time f Consideration, before we put ourselves ei tirely in a man’s power; and that tl Gentlemen would be So indulgent, as : allow us the Liberty to make a differeni between drinking Tea, or sitting in con pany every now and then an hour with Man, and being married to him. If th is too much Indulgence to be granted u they must: proceed in calling every W( man, who is not stupid, a Coquette, ar we must bear the Reproach as patient! as we can.
PHILOCLES now returned wit double Force on my Thoughts. The Chi racter I had heard of Florio, made Philocles Indifference appear in an amiable Light and I resolved, if I could be So happy as 1 See my Philocles once more, never to loi him again. But the first News I heard (
hii
 V 129
him, was, that he was .married. This made me very miserable, but despair Soon made me easy; and in a Variety of other Lovers, I at last almost lost the Remembrance of him.
Here Ifabinda paused Sometime, being tired with talking; and So I will conclude this long Epistle. I design in my next; to Send you the Sequel of the Story
I am ever;
Lour affedlionate Sifier^
CAMILLA.
vol. I. G
'( 130)

Cynthia to Camilla at London.
Dear Cam ill a, [From the Bath.
Th E Account Ifabinda gives of her Love to Philocles, does not at all Surprise me, after that most: amiable Character she drew of him; and notwithstanding Inclination prompted her to rested with scorn on Womens having no Choice of their own, I really think she is judicious in her Observations: For I have often thought, that the Generality of Womer act in Life, just as they do at a Ball; dreli and adorn themselves with the utmost An and Care, in order to engage Some Partnei to chuse them, without any farther Consideration, who, or what the Man is the) dance with, than whether his Station II Such as will give them a good Appearance The distinguishing toss of the Head
am
  131
and the peculiar Elegance and Gentility of the Hop, which attends a Lady exulting in her Heart, and Smiling in her Thoughts that she is dancing with the Man in the greatest: Vogue, or of the greatest; Fashion in the Room; all this is a lively Representation of every married Woman; who constders her Husband in no other light, but as he can produce her to the rest: of the World with greater Lustre, and give her larger means of gratifying her Vanity;
I H A p p ENE D to go last Night to a Ball just after I had received your Letter, which threw me into this way of thinking. I cohfess I was very much pleased; for the lighted branchesj the Mustc, the Variety ds Colours, the Appearance of cheerful ness which reigned in the whole Company, Seemed to me a Picture of Social happiness, and gave me leave to indulge myself fqr a little while in the Fancy, that Such a nuin ber of People were pleased with one another. I never Saw anything better regulated, or conducted with lest Confusion, than this whole Scene, which, I was told. Was entirely owing to a Gentlem.^, .who G 2 for
132 L £ T T E R V
for many Years has had the Management of all public Diversions here, and is voluntarily Submitted to by the whole Company, as they See it is mbfl for their Interelf alid pleasure that he Should be abfolutci The only diftinguishing Mark he wears, is that of a white Hat; and as this immediately makes him conspicuous to Strangers, they deservedly respect: him,"and he in his turn takes effectual care, that no Civility be omitted towards them. Thus he has insenfibly effablilhed to himfels an undisputed Authority, to which all willingly pay the utmost deserence; So that he rules with the hearty consent of those he governs, and all Parties concur in applauding his Administration.
Now, Camilla., I mufl insorm you what i. charitable Action I did at this Ball 5 Soft rescued a poor Gentleman, who had condemned hihilelf to Spend the whole Evening in Punishrhent, and delivered him from the burden of his own Affectation. I had Seen him often in Company; and, as I thought him good-humoured and inoffensive, always Spoke to him when I met him
in
  133 in public. I observed the whole time the Music played, that altho’ he kept his Seat, yet his Feet were Still in motion, and he looked with an eagerness at the Dancers, that strongly indicated his whole Desire was to be one of the Number. As Men are Seldom at a loss for Partners, I could not imagine why this young Gentleman did not follow his Inclination; but when I came to speak to him, I Soon Sound that he thought dancing was notanemployment worthy of Vn Wisdom; that it was too trifling, too childish, for a Man of his xjnderjiaitding, to give into. And he made Several Speeches entirely new, viz. That a Stranger, who had never heard of Such a Diversion, must take a Set of People dancing to be all mad, or stung by a Tarantula, ssd. and concluded with a Sort of Triumph in his Coun? ' tenance, that he was So rational a Being, as to be above all Such silly nonsensical a musements. I could not forbear laughing to See a Man Sacrificing his pleasure to the vain Hope of gaining a Reputation of Wisdom, and throwing himself out of the only way of Life in which he could make a tolerable Figure (namely that of being lively G 3 and
134-
and gay) in order to indulge his Pride, ifi the Thoughts that he has a Superiority over Some of his Fellow-creatures. However, I took pity on him, and argued with him to prove, that he might dance withoul being thought at all the more foolish; still at raft my Arguments, Seconded by his own Inclination, prevailed, and he performed as good a Hop, as ever I Saw in my lise.
IC o u L D not help talking of the odd Whims of humankind to a very Sensible Man I met with, just after I had parted with my wife Spark He laughed, and told me, he could point out a perfect Contrast to him J on which he showed me an elderly Gentleman, who was dancing very awkwardly with a Girl of Fifteen. “Now, S Says he, that Man has an Understanding equal to any Undertaking; you See he V is of an Age, shat a reasonable Gravity “would become; and yet his only ambitionis to be a Beau Garqon, to be thought gallant amongst the Girls, and humorous “and witty with the gay young Men. In It short, he despises being esteemed a Man
^ of
  135
of Solid good sense; and is Sull as eager to be thought a good Trifler, as the other is to gain the Reputation of a great un derstandingc
Reflections on these two Characters took up all the Time I staid at the Ball; and I was obliged by an Engagement of Valentine's, to Sup in a great deal of Company; or, to Speak more properly, with a great Number of People. I never in my Life Spent So disagreeable an Evening, where my Husband was of tie Party; for nonsense always makes him Silent; So that I had not the pleasure of hearing him Speak one Word the whole Evening. The Conversation was entirely taken up in this Disputation; Which is the greatest Virtue a Man can possess?? Subject would have been very pleasing to me, if I had found real Truth or Information had been Sought after by any of the Company. If Self, dear Self had been but a moment forgot, I might have hoped to have gained Some Instruction on that head from Men of Learning; but, alas! I perceived Pride was at the bottom of every Word that was ut g 4 tered.
13  V tered, and the only Consideration of ea( Individual, was to idolise every glimpi every Shadow of Virtue he could, by tl greatest Fallacy, but once imagine he U a right to claim as his own; and to ro out as much as ppstilile from Mens Min( the Admiration of everything his own V ciousness, and want of resolution disabk him from attaining. I will Set down tl Substance of the whole conversation, : well as I (an recollect: it, with the. Charact of each Speaker.
HO NORTHEAST S TUS.
“Gentlemen, if you will take rn “Opinion, in afl Societies where Credit i “necessary, Honesty is the principal Vir tue; as she welsare of the Whole de pends upon it entirely: Sp shct J thin
V the Man who does not pay his Debt “when it is in his power, is the mos y hurtful, and consequently the most VI f cious Man in a Commonwealth. And
V I shank God, I don’t owe a Farthing II
she Worlds
Thi!
L E T T E R V 137
This Gentleman had run out of a good Fortune when young, and borrowed Money of his Friends to Support him in his Extravagance: but, upon the Death of a near Relation, a great Estate accidentally fell to him, when he very generoujiy comr pounded his Debts 5 and the poor Credh tors, who had denied themselves everything to help him in his distress, were forced to give him a Receipt in full for half their Money. So that, in reality, he owed nothing that could legally be de? manded of him.
HONORIUS,
“For my part, I look upon Honesty to be the meanest Quality in the world;
“it is the Virtue of a Mechanic : And I think a Gentleman Should be all gene rofity, Good nature, and Compassion,,
‘‘ Man who pays Such Fellows as ‘d Shoemakers and Barbers., whilst he de“ “his Companion any the minutest “thing he wants, or but even wishes, is a pitisul Wretch; and no cen.tlw^^ f should keep him company, ’’
This
13  V
This good-natured Creature has bee three or Sour times in his Life affected b very striking miserable Objects, whom I relieved in reality with the Property ( others. And therefore, whenever Virtt is the Subject, he cannot help rememberin and exulting in all his mighty Goodness and pleases himself with the Reflectioi that he is possessed of what, in his opinioi is the only valuable dispofition of Mind.
S USE NUS.
“The greatestand most glorious V if tui must be that which respects a who! People; and whatever proposes as its u “timate End the Good of any Individua “undoubtedly falls Short of that diffusiv generous, and noble Public spiritednc that induces a Man to Sacrifice his ovi private Interest to that of his Countr Oh! what a great Soul must that Mi ** have, who starves because he Scorns 1 accept the Reward of baseness, and w: not be bribed to hurt the Society, > which he is a worthy Member. Oi V Cato! Cato! how I adore thee! Ai
y ho
  13^
how shall I enough worship thee, Oh Brutus! "
This great Patriot has III a Pastiofi re? fnsed a Place of a hiiiidred Pounds a Yedf, from a Man whom, in his owii private and peculiar Opinion, he thinks ought to have. given him five, and has ever since roared out his Approbation of ctl public Virtues.
E E nig NVS.
” F o R my part, I think a man’s taking care oshis own Family, is the Action the " most worthy of Admiration in the world. ‘'for those who arp more immediately ‘‘ placed under our Care, have certainly ‘‘ the greatest Right to our Endeavours to Serve them. Public Virtues 1 look upon “to be Trifles, in comparison of that amia ble dispofition of Mind, which makes a “Man industrious and zealous in providing “Sor his Relations, even when the Law doth not oblige him to do it
This Gentleman was left by his Father in the poffefiiori of six hundred Pounds a Year, with a Brother and §ister unprovided
for,
J4 q
for, and entirely dependant on his Will and pleasure. He has since, by changing ol his Party, got an Addition of four hundred more; and, aster having calculated what would keep his Brother and Sister from starving in the Country, out of the yearlj Income of a thousand Pounds, generoujiy allows each of them twenty.
Several other Gentlemen spoke j but, now public and private Virtues were introduced, it \yas impossible to hear one Word from another. Every Man thought he was So much concerned in the Debate, that he had no patience to hear another Speak; and from this time I could not dl stinguisti anything that was Said : only th(; word Virtue resounded continually in my Ears. Thus eacti Man deified that Virtue he thought would best gratisy his own Pride, loudly adored the Idol of his owr Imagination, and insisted that others Should do the Same. And So they all together raised Such a consufion, and hideous Uproar, as to me plainly proved, that rqal unaffected Virtue was not in the Company; for Peace and pleasure arc her Attendants,
whilfi
  141
vliilfl: noise and discord are her Sworn Enemies. Thus Pride overflows the Mind if Man, as the River Nile does the Land if Egypt. Its Branches are many, its, Vindings and Labyrinths numerous, its Effects various and apparent, but its Source nvisible: And, to carry on the compari on, in Minds barren of every Virtue, hide may Sometimes be as necessary to nake Men act right, as the Overflowing of he Nile is to fertilise the Land where no tindly resrefhing Showers Sail. Vermin, it 5 true, are bred from the Mud brought [own by the Deluge; but that Inconvenience 5 fully compensated by the great Plenty it Toduces.
When I came home to amuse myself fter this disagreeable Scene, I read your setter over gain. Ifabinda is perhaps mis iken in imputing the Cruelty of Florio to his ivourite little Dog to any other cause, than hat of real tenderness; and yet She was,
think, right in discarding him, for fhc lerself might have been in danger of meet ig the Same Treatment.
everv
142 L E T T E R V
Every violent Passion indulged tc excess, is in danger of turning into contrary; and even tenderness, when tui into Rage, becomes only the Fuel make it burn the fiercer. I would no understood to Speak against Passion, no gainst; tenderness, which is the most a able of all Pastions; to the highest de of which in a Man, I owe the most quistte happiness: but I Say there is a j Ability of its changing to the contn when in excess, and the risque would h been very great with a Man, who j shown himself capable of this change, deed the gentle resentment of the IV who is incapable of a strong Affection; not half So much to be dreaded, as fiery Wrath of him, who does but imag he has cause to be offended, even ir Trifle, by the person he loves. besides think it impossible ever to be cured ol Passion for a Man So amiable as she descril Elorio. And was it my case, altho’t Hurricane of his violent Passion was to Si me into Ruin, yet the naoment he Was CC fcioushe had done wrong, the great mise
L E T T E R V 143
s must unavoidably Seel, would make me iffer double in compassion to him; and il sensations for myself would be lost and vallow’d up, in thinking what Agonies is Reflections must give him. He would ontinually bring to my Remembrance the sharacter Dryden makes Ventidius give of intonyi
Virtue's his Path, but sometimes tis too narrow
For his vajt Soul; and then he Jiarts oui wide.
And bounds into a Vice that bears him far From his first Course, and plunges him in Ills:
But when his Danger makes him find his Fault;
^ick to observe, and full of fttarp Remorse, He censures eagerly his own jmifdeeds; Judging himself with malice to himself And not forgiving what as Man he did, Because his other Parts are more than Man,
And then like Ventidius I should conclude : “He must: not thus be loft.” In a word, I should be always asraid every Indiscretion
i4  V
tion which Florid Passion caused, wou be for ever Hurtful to his Character. F there arc st Set of censorious Men, who n ver forgive the Faults of a Man of Meri For to those Faults only it is owir^, th they can indulge their Vanity in the me delightful Thought, that mean, mercem ry, trifling and feljijh as they are, thi are not inferior to the Man, whom, nc Withflanding all they can Say to the coi trary, they certainly admire, because th( think him worth envying. In short, 'w I married to Florio, I should be in the ca of Tantalus: his many amiable Qualiti Would continually make me think Hajif ness within my reach; and yet the Turbi lence of his Passions would prevent ft really er>joying it. But, had Philocles be the little Dog, I Sancy Ifabinda would ha found more excuse for him than she coti for Florio,
Bui' this Subject puts me in mind bf Scene I was witness of the other day, a married Family. They are not in ve High Life, but the Husband is an honi good Sort of Man, and excessively Sond
L E T T E R V 145
his Wife. He has no Sault but that of being passionate; She has very little regard for him; is of an artful temper, and only pretends a Value for him, when it can any way Serve her own ends. I breakfasted with them, and Some few words arose on Some trifle, which I have now forgot: The Man flew into a Fury, Said everything that came uppermost, without any Consideration what his Wife felt from the sharp ness of his Expressions. She bore it all very patiently, flew to Tears alone for her relies, and I really pitied her: but my Compassion was Soon turned on him; for the moment he had time to reflect: on what he had Said, he was in the greatest: Agony imaginable.; and by all the Submissions, endearing bxpreflions, and Signs of Repentance he could invent or think of, he endeavoured to appease her Anger, and moderate her Grief. But now was her turn, and she was resolved not to allay his sus fering by anything in her power. In short, in 2i soft Voice, and without uflng one opprobrious Word, she found means of wbrk ing the poor Man almost to madness; 'till at last, being unable to bear her Treatment, vol. L H he
146 L E T T E R V
he flew out of the house, and with al • Oath affirmed, he would never See hei more. But I was very much surprised when, instead of being frighted at hii Menaces, and going after him in hopes tc calm him, she immediately dried up hei Eyes, and burst out a laughing, Saying Go thou, Fool! I know which will fuffei “most, and which will Soonest Seek th( “other." I could not forbear telling her I wondered how it was possible for hei to keep up any resentment against a Mar who was So fond of her, and how sh( could avoid even excusing, as well as forgiving his Faults, in order to make hin easy. Before this, she always expressed the greatest Esteem for me; but I Saw plainl) She now conceived the greatest Contempi in the world for me. However, She gavt me an exact: Detail of her Management oi her Husband“ “Says she, do I know, “that this Fool will go Sret and fume, anc ‘‘ be upon the Rack for about hals ar “Hour; then all his resolutions will Saj. “him, and, in Spite of himself, he wili “come back to me again more Submishve than ever: but the more he Submits,
“the
L E T T E R V 147
"the more stubborn I wili be; nor will I
ever be reconciled to him, till I have “made him Suffer as much as possible“ “then the Joy of Seeing me in good Hu“ “throws him quite into my power. “So far from being hurt by his Behaviour, “I am glad he is so passionate; otherwise“ “likely he might not be So much my “Slave. I should not be concerned, if I “could provoke him to strike me; for then “I should have the more to upbraid him “with.”
I Stared with Astonishment at the Woman, for giving this Account of herself; but I have observed, immense Pride and Folly when joined (and they are not ins^arable Companions) will make People take a low Cunning for wisdom; and, rather than not prove they are possessed of what they esteem So valuable, they will give themselves the most diabolical Characters in the world. I ran out of the house, as Soon as she had finished her Speech, resolving never to See her more. For to make use of a man’s Passions, to make him miserable, is in my eyes so H 2 detestable
14  V
detestable an Artifice, that I would wish to converse with any one capabh it.
It is now late, and I can write no mi but am ever.
My dear Camilla,
Tours, cc
Y N T H I
( »+9)
 I Camilla to Cynthia at the Bath.
Dear Cynthia, [Fromhondion.
IH E R E Send you the Conclusion of Ifabinda's Story. When she had rested herself Some time, she proceeded as follows.
I WILL L now tell you, as well as I can recollect, the Characters of all my other Lovers, who had anything remarkable in them; with my reasons for refuling them. Had I been obliged to have retired into the Country, and to lead a Solitary Life, I certainly should have languished away my Days in sighing for Philocles: for, as Love was the strongest Bent of my Nature, nothing could have cured me of the Fancy, that in him I had found the only Object worthy of it, but the great Opportunities I had of employing mysels in endeavouring to find H 3 another
15  VI
another; and yet the first Inclination 1 far took place of all others, that 1 was northeast ver again possessed of a blindness powersi enough to prevent my examining fairly an impartially the Merits of a Lover.
LEONIDAS was the first th; addressed me : He had two Sisters, by who: means I became acquainted with him. narrowly observed his Behaviour to then thinking by that means to come at his re; Character. Fanny, the eldest Sister, w; one of that Sort of people, of whom yo can only Say, they dejign no Harm; bi She had all the Weaknesses of a silly Wt 'man; and appeared to me perfectly ma pable of a strong or steady Friendshi] But Jenny (the youngest) was one of tl best natured Girls I ever met with; h( Understanding was both lively and masci line, and her whole conversation Seem to flow from a Head capable of Sormin and expressing whatever Ideas sly pleased whilst the sostness of her Heart made ht utterly incapable of wilsully Saying on Word to give another Pain. But what chiefly remarked in her, was her real an
difinterestei
 I 151
dilinteresfed Love for her Bother. It was impossible for him to have more Humours than file would comply with, or to have any Faults, which she would not endeavour to excuse. But, notwithstanding all Jenny good Qualities, to my great a mazement, Fanny was his only Favourite j. and the indulging her Seemed to be his greatest Delight, whilst he entirely neglected the other; whose goodness was So great, that she patiently bore all the capricious Fancies of her Sister, who had not sense enough to meet with Such Indulgence,, without growing whimsical.
LEONIDAS appeared to me a very good-natured Man; and I was a long time greatly perplexed on account of the difference of his Behaviour to his two Sisters. But, as I made it for Some time the Subject of my daily Thoughts, I believe I at last found out the cause of it. Although Leonidas had Sometimes the Appearance of Affedfion, yet in reality' he had none, but what conduced to the Satisfaction of his Vanity. Now Fanny's Follies and weak nestes flattered him into a belies, that it was H 4 generous
15  VI
generous in him to Sorgive them; and, he found a Secret pleasure in humourii and obliging her, without examining ove nicely into the reason, he easily persuadi himself that it was Love; whilst po Jenny Behaviour to him was so exact ai faultless, that he considered any Retui he could make her, only as a Debt he V obliged to pay. So that he looked on 1 as he would on a Dun, whom, when had paid to the uttermost Farthing, he coi not Jirut., and Say, I have done more tl fujiice. Thus Fanny's Faults gave h the pleasure of Secretly magnifying his o' goodness, whilst Jenny Virtues Seen to stand in competition with his, and reality rather hurt than pleased him. Wl Fanny was out of humour for nothing, could easily Submit and beg her pard because this was a plain Condescension his part; but if Jenny % Heart was break at any unkindness of his, and She did look concerned, he found his own Pt hurt, in her daring to think he could have ill; and immediately imputed her I ealiness to. Some wrong cause; constri her tenderness into Obstinacy j could ea
conq
L E T T E R VI 153
conquer what he never Selt; and be merry whilst She was Sull of gries; and then rejoiced that he was the be ft humoured Man alive, and thanked his Stars, that he was born Sree from all such foolish Pride. Thu he carried about him a Racket, which he managed So artsully, that, when he Saw the tennis ball coming towards him, he could always ward the Blow, and strike it from himsels. The more the poor Girl studied to plcase him, the lower She threw herself in his Opinion, and only encreased his Notion of his own Grandeur; which made him imagine she could not give him half So much as his due : Nay, he went even So far, as to flatter himself how well he could manage, and make others Submit to him; because the only person who had a strong Inclination to oblige him, had not Resolution enough to get the better of it. Besides, as Fanny considered nothing but the gratisying her own Whims, and had always Some nonsensical Point of her own to make him consent to, she never offered to contradict him in anything that would hurt him; whereas fenny, who had no o there Consideration but his real Interest and
Honour,
IS  VI
Honour, could not help showing a Distik of whatever tended in she most: distar ^iew to his Disadvantage. But the me nient that I was convinced, that Art in Stead of Love was necessary to keep up hi Affection, I was determined never to hav y thing to Say to him: For, it being m; strongest: Inclination to use my utmost En ideavours to please any person for whom have the least degree of Love; I foum wish him I must be miserable.
My next Lover, whose Name wa woud’^all, was very ridiculous, from nc having Understanding enough to concea Jbis Character, even in the Smallest degree Tis true, great part of Mankind Seel th Same shing; but then, either Cunning o good breeding prevails on them to hide it In short, he was the greatest Humourifl and she most Selfish Creature in the Worlc His Education had been too low, to enabl him by custom to conquer his Nature So shat it broke out on every trifling occasion; even So far, as to show all his Com panions, that nothing but Self was wort! his notice; and that he looked on them
onl;
 I 155 only as a Set of Creatures made for his Diversion. I have been told by Gentlemen of his Acquaintance, that when he went to a Tavern, he would always run the first into the Room, in order to get the most convenient place at the Fire; and that he would Seize the Pipes the moment they were brought, that, if there was any dis ference, he might chuse the best; and Sometimes he was a good while in deliberating which to take; for, is asterwards he had any suspicion, that another had one the least degree beyond his in goodness, he was fb uneasy, he could not Smoke in peace. And, as there is but little Ceremony observed amongst Men, he was Sure to help himself first at Dinner, that he might Secure whatever was most to his Taste; nay, I have myself Seen him, when he has been at Table with Women, look with as much Perturbation and Anxiety, whilst the Lady of the house has been helping them, for fear he should lose Some nice Bit, on which he had fixed his Eyes and Heart, as if his whole welsare had depended on it. But, as there is nothing Mankind So hardly forgive, a being treated with Contempt 5
15  VI
tempt; and he was So very open and unreserved in the preserence he gave himself every one, who would keep him Company found out Some method of teasing him by disappointing his Schemes; and where ever he went, it was a general Plot to debar him of everything he liked; 'till h( was at last reduced, either to sit by him sels, or live continually on the Fret, by observing, that all People, instead of wishing he might be pleased, took a delight in tor menting him.
iconfess, I thought it but Justice that the Man who had no Confideratior for anything in the World but his owi dear Self should lose the Benefits that aris( from Society, and meet with no body that has any regard for him. You may b( well assured this Gentleman never gave m( a Serious Thought; and I mention hin only, because I think his Character Something peculiar, in thus openly showing hi selfishness,
The next that declared himself mi Lover, was Damas. As far as I could penetrate

 I 157
trate, and by 'what I heard of him from all Sorts of People, he behaved So justly, and with Such an exact Honesty to all Mankind, that he gained my Esteem, although' he could not raise my Taste; So that I used to bewail the capriciousness osthe human Mind. that we are neither able to fix our Love, where we think it would be justly placed, nor remove it from the Object that pos selies it, without any other motive, but that of a relistless Attraction, which we can neither lessen or encrease by our reason. I never could find the least Fault in Damas's Conduct, and was greatly pleased with his Acquaintance, altho’ I could not think of him as a Husband. It was not possible for me to dive into his Principles j for he was very reserved in declaring his Sentiments on any but frivolous Subjects. But an old Gentleman (whose Acquaintance I looked on as one of the greatest Blessings of my Life, as he gave me the pleasure of his conversation, without declaring himself my Lover, loved me with a fatherly Affection, and esteemed me enough to take delight in improving my Knowledge) asked me one day, what I
thought
15  VI thought of Damas. I laid in his Pn everything I could think on; and ct eluded, with lamenting to my Friei that it was not in my power to have any 1 clination for the only Man I had ever rr with, whom otherwise I thought I shot be happy with as a Husband. The Gent! man Smiled, and Said, he Sancied, if knew damas*s real Character, I Should n ' So much regret my want of liking hin
for that, notwithstanding the justness his Behaviour, there was nothing So vei amiable at the bottom, as I imagined, earnestly desired him to explain himfeli and in compliance with my Request, h thus began :
“I Should never have been So we ¦ “acquainted with Damas ^ ha “I not known him when he was ver
young, the time when most Peopl “Speak their Thoughts freely, and with “out rcserve. When he was but Twenty “he was as much Settled in his Notions “as most Men are at Forty He is j “perfect Sceptic in Religion; he neithe “believes or dishelieves anything, bu
y leave
 I 159
leaves it at large,. and argues thus : I ‘ will act in the Same manner, as is I had ‘ the strongest Faith of any Man; then, if there should be another World, and good x^ctions are to be rewarded, I shall Secure my happiness there. But this Notion he keeps to himsels; for he would have others firm Believers, as he thinks he may be Some way the better “Sor it in them Behaviour to him. He is " strictly honest; for he looks on Honesty as the best Policy; and never receives an Obligation he can poshbly avoid, b.c.“ “he knows most People are apt to think they are not Sully repaid, and become Enemies the moment they take it into their heads, that a Man is un grateful to them. And it is a Maxim “of his, to let no Man hate him; " because no Station or Circumstances “can throw People So low, but they one time or other may have it in their power to do mischief. He is guilty of no Vice; for his Pastions are natu rally So moderate, that they never get “the better of his Judgement; and he has ** Such a Command of himself, that he
y weigh
io L E T T E R VI
“weighs in an exact: Balance, wheth • the consequence of any Action will 1
“more pleasure or Pain; and constant “gives the preference to what will brir “him most: of the Sormer. He is not: “varicious; and has no idea of wishing S “more Money than he can Spend : but y “he does not give to others, what he ca “very well Spare; because he has no m( “tive to it; for he laughs inwardly at tl word Benevolence., and thinks there “no Such thing: But he encourages tl “Belief osit in others; because he does m “think it impossible, but their believin “it a Virtue, may, by Some unsoresee “Accident, redound to his own Goo( “You well know he is all complaisana “and shows a great willingness to oblig “whomever he converses with. But th “does not arise from any Delight he taki “in giving them pleasure, but from h “hoping, that the Returns they will maf him, in endeavouring to please hin “will more than pay him for the paii “he takes in thus artfully hiding his Seljiji “nefs. He is as Sree from Malignity, i “from good nature, and would recen
d r
 I it
no more pleasure in doing hurt that! ‘‘ good; for I never Saw any signs of “Envy, in him: if he has any Spark of it, he gets the better of it, from finding it an uneasy reftless Passion. In short“ “lives in the World, without either “loving or hating anything that Surrounds “him, and has no other consideration in “his Commerce with Mankind, but which ‘‘ way he shall make it conducive to his own happiness. He is a real Epicure “in the moll minute things in Life, and “will put away his snuffbox or Tobacco “for So many hours, only to heighten the ‘ ‘ pleasure of taking to it again. He northeast ver fitfe down to Table, but wheh he is “hungry; and always avoids drinking to ‘‘ excess, because he knows that Tempe“ “gives the greatest relish to Wine
“He would marry you, not because l ic “has any particular Affection for you“ “because he has a mind to have a “Wise, and Chance threw you in his way; “He likes you very well as a Woman, “and thinks your Circumstances will make y you a Match Spi him, which the World vol. I. I y wi
162 L E T T E R vr.
“will not blame. You think, perhaps, 1: has a great deal of tenderness for you “but I can affure you, it is quite a mil “take; for be looks on making love a “a Trade; and the coolness of his ow “Passions enables him to See clearly int the bent of those of others; and he ca “effect as much of anything, as he think neeestary to bring about any Purpo: he has a mind to attain. And nov “that I have told you what is reall true, [yizi that whatever appearanc “Damas may make of goodness, he : “the most: Selfish Creature in the world j “perhaps you may not So much regre your want of Taste for him as you dii besore.”
I Thanked the Gentleman for hi Information; and was as well pleased ti find I had no reason to esteem the Man could not like, as I should have bee: Some time besore at a discovery of any nei; persection in the Man I could not hei] liking. Damas was my last: Lover, that hai anything peculiar in his Character; th rest Wire amongst the common Herd
Peopl
 I 163
People I could not bear to hear twice mention the Word Love; So that for Some time I had a Cessation of all thoughts of being married. I had refused So many Offers, that I was looked on as a Coquette; and it was reported, that I had made a res lution against: Matrimony.
During this Interval, I lost my Mother. This was a Serious Affliction to me and gave my Thoughts So grave and philosophical a turoj that 1 began now III earnest to have that Contempt for the World, I used to imagine I was mistress of, eveil when \ could not bear the most trifling Disappointment. All Company grew irksome to me, and I retired into the Country, where Books were the only Companions I delighted in.
Perhaps it may Sound very improbable, that a Woman at the Age of Twen*^ ty five, and in possession of a Fortune capable of making an Eclat in the World, Should chuse to lead the Life of an Hermit; yet it really became pleasing to me; and I vas almost ready firmly to resolve, no i 2 thing
76  VE
thing should ever allure me from that Scend of quietness and Serenity, to launch into that Sea, or Siege o Troubles, the World, again.
In this inanner, I continued to live for two Years, when a Gentleman, whose person I had some faint Remembrance of (he having been my Neighbour when he was a Boy) came and Settled in a little house, at a Small distance from me. The Account I heard of his Spending his time much in the Same Taste, in which I chose to pass my own, gave me a curiosityto see him. This was no difficult Talk to bring about; for I never slept out of house to walk in the Fields, but I was Sure to meet him in my way. In short, we became intimate almost: insenstbly; anc without any Declaration of Love, h( took Such pains to oblige, and show mt the most: particular complaisance, * that i looked on myself under an Obligation tc him for his Friendship, before I had th( least: suspicion of his real Intentions. Wt read, walked, and conversed with ead other with the grectest Freedom; and hi
Sentiment
L E T T E R VI 165
Sentiments corresponded So exactly with my own, that, whenever he Spoke, he declared my very Thoughts: So that I grew from one degree of Affection for him to another, till he gained my whole Esteem; and his Company was always the most; agreeable amusement I could have. In a word, he at last professed himself my Lover, telling me he had been So, from the time he first Saw me, when I was but a Girl, and he a Boy 3 but that he could not bear the thoughts of even the Appearance of wishing to make a Prey of my Fortune; and therefore, as he was Sensible of the great Inequality there was between us on that account, he was resolved to absent himself for ever from me, unless he could by any means raise himsels enough in the World, to make it probable, that he really liked me without any interested Views; that he had put himself into the Sea service, where by the help of Some good Acquaintance and his willingly exposing himself to any Hardships that his Duty made him liable to, he at last got the Command of a finall Shi]^^ and there being a War, he had taken a Prize, which had put him in a Situation I 3 that
i6  VI
that he hoped would clear him in my ( pinion of having any merpenary Designs( (
I Was at first: a little startled at tl Declaration; for since my Retirement, enjoyed So much Satisfaction from tl Tranquillity of my own Mind, that I d not care to give way to any Passion th might ruffle and discompose my Thought But my continual conversation with ir Husband (for So thst Gentleman is nov gave me daily Proofs of both his Honoi nd Love, and let me have the pleasui pf thinking I could not be too grateful 1 the Man, whose Affection for me was i fincerci In a word, I at last: gave hii my Hapd and Heart. It is impossible f( any Wornan to be happier than I have bee ver since. My Lover is capable of all tf Refinements in his Passion, that any ra Sonablc Woman can wish;; my Lo for him is Sounded on So ff rong an Efteen shat in my utmost care to oblige hin I at once consult my happiness, and pei form my Duty.
Thu
 I 167
Thus Ifabinda finished her Story; and I doubt not but you will be pleased with her happy Choice, aster having resufed Such a Variety of Lavers.
I am.
Dear C y n X h i a,
Tour affedlknate Sister,
CAMILLA.
14
( |68)
 II Cynthia to Camilla at London.
Dear Cam ill A, [From the Btltli
I Am not at all Surprised at the Character of Leonidas, nor at his making his Sister Fanny his Favourite. Those Smiles and that good-humour which col us dear, generally become the more valu able, as we are apt to triumph in the En joyment of what is not common, and t( prize whatever we think we have ourselvc been instrumental in procuring, beyond tha which flows Srona the natural dispofition C others. Besides, Men osten from what the; read and hear and Sometimes, I am afraic from what they See, join the Idea of Wo men, and being troublesome, So flrongl; together, that those of them, who have Sen! enough to avoid all Impertinence, ar often treated with disrepect and Contempt
becaui
 ir. 169
because it is even Sorgot that they are Women. As I have Seen a Parrot, who used to chatter and dillurb the Company the whole time of Dinner, taken much notice of for So doing; but when from any accident he has been filent, he lost his Food for want of being remembered.
Perhaps a Man of sense would be yery apt to laugh at the Folly of a Lady J know, who, being married greatly beyond her Expectation (tho’ not at all beyond what in her own opinion she deserves) osten Sends away Tradeswomen with their Goods unsold, for no other reason, than because they are not costly enough; For she looks upon it, as not enjoying her Fortune, is She buys anything that she thinks can be attainable by those Vulgar Wretches, who happen not to be So rich as herself. By this means she gives double the worth of everything she wears, and struts with a visible pleasure in her Countenance, when she has just proved she has more Money to throw away, than her for pier Acquaintance.. And yet this very Man of §erise can lay out all his goodness, and
expend
170 L E T T E R VII
expend all his complaisance, to obtain i worthless Smile for no other reason but because it costs him dear; whilf he neglects the sost, the engaging tende: Care that another takes to please him and this only, because he cannot think ani thing valuable, which is So easily obtained Besides, there must always be a wide difference between that Esteem which is ex torted by a good Behaviour, and that Lovi which arises from the natural Bent of i Man's own Inclinations. He will always view the most trifling Faults of the form with a magnisying glass, whilst those o the latter, like his own, are lefiened, anc fade into nothing by the strength of hi own Iihagination.
As to the Characters of would all an( Damas, I look on them to be very llki each other; the only difference I can Southeast between them, is, that Damas, being Sen fible of the Deformity of his Features wisely chuses to wear a Mask, whili woud^alis want of Understanding take firom him the power of Reflection, am
make
 II 171
makes him expose his own ugliness barefaced to every Beholder.
I Am very glad ifabindd.s Story ends in her being well married; Sori was very much asraid, after having been So very deliberate in her Choice, that when fly came to live a retired lise, the having perhaps but one Lover, might make her six on him, although' he had not been So worthy as many She had refused. For, whatever is she most predominant Passion of the Mind, is apt to prevail oyer our senses, So far as m make us easily believe, we have Sound an Object to gratisy it. And we Seel Such a Happinest in thus imposing on ourselves, as makes it hard for us to endeavour to iind out the Truth.
IF Mankind were all Sairly to examine themselves, I question much, whether they would think Don ^ixote*s Sancying a Country Girl to be a great princess, and inststing, that She was stringing Pearl, instead of winnowing Corn, was So extraordinary an Effect pf the human imagi jpction, as it appears at first sight.
But
17  VII
But I dined yesterday, where I Saw Scene of real Solid pleasure, which wante no Fallacy to Support it; and where, th more nicely I examined, the more I wa convinced, that the chearsulness there arof from conscious goodness, and the Good breeding from an unaffected Desire of plea ling others. When we arrived at th house, which stands at a Small distance Sron hence, I was delighted to See a Building where Expense does not appear to hav been Spared, and where there is Sull Mag nificence, and Grandeur enough to Show the Taste of the Builder j whilst every Par Seems So calculated for use, that it is visibl the Owner intends to live, and let other also live in it; and that he does not maki it his Sole Design to keep it as a Show So Strangers to gaze at, as Spine do, only t( gratisy a sruitless Vanity. I co; ifess tp yoi I am apt to imagine, wherever a great Su' periority of Fortune is very apparent, thai Shall be treated with a Sormal Ceremony and made to feel a Restraint, which takei away the pleasure of all Conversation But how was I Surprised! when the Lady
0
 II 1^3
bf this house received me with a good-natured Freedom, that plainly proved she was innocent of even a Thought that might offend another, and never harboured a suspicion, that any one could have an Intention of dropping a word, that might tend in the most distant view to hurt her. Her whole care Seemed to be, that All her hushand’s Friends (for there were Several Gentlemen there) Should be treated as he himself could wish, without following the Fashion of Some few Ladies, who make a great Distinction between their own Friends, and those of their Husbands: And the Gentleman Seemed to enjoy his Fortune, only as it gave him an Opportunity of Serving his Acquaintance, and being beneficent to Mankind. The whole Company were pleased j and no Sooner did any one give the least hint of what would be most agreeable, but the Master and mistress of the Family made it their own Desire to have it complied with. The Joy and Serenity that reigned in their Countenances, was diffused throughout the house j and their most menial Servants appeared to observe thdr Commands, as those of their
generous
17  VII
generous benesactors, instead of fhewin; that Fear and uneafiness, which attend th notion of its being difficult to please eve: with the utmost Endeavours.
i W A s So delighted with this Scene that at my return home, I could talk C nothing else to Valentine the whole Even ingle told me, that he had heard th Character of this Cxentleman from one wh was very intimate with him, who Said “That his Principles of Religion were f “strongly fix’d, and his Adoration of hi “Creator So great, thatj had he no Bene “volence, he would act rightly, and d “good; but that his whole Mind over flowed with Benevolence and Good “nature to Such a degree, as would endue “him to do all the good in his power even if he had no Religion; that h “conserred Obligations, as if he was re “ceiving them. That his pleasure wa “always the greatest, and nothing couk ‘‘ equal his Joy, when he was relievinj “another j and that he was So happy II “the Choice he had made of a Wife y that She always promoted his good In
ti
 II 175
tentions, instead of endeavouring to stifle them."
This Account, and the Image of this amiable Family, dwelled So strongly on my Mind, that I waked this Morning, pleasing myself with reflecting on what I Saw and heard yesterday 3 and went to the Pump room, in the most chearsul Spirits imaginable. But I dined today where there was a perfect Contrast to the agreeable Scene I have been describing, and where the whole Company Seemed to be taking pains to make one another unhappy. They are come to the Bath for the Sea son, have the Command of a plentisul Fortune; and I know of nothing but their own perverse Tempers to obstruct their happiness: For every one affects to confine all the senses to herlels, and will not allow her Companions even to hear or See but in the. Same manner and degree, as she herself does. Perhaps at first you will not clearly apprehend what I mean; tho’ I have Seen the Same thing, in a less degree, in Several places; but here they all topped sheir respective parts.
There
47  VIL
There are Sour young Ladies, th eldest: not above twenty-five, they LIV with an old Aunt of about Sixty, whe accompanies them wherever they go, tc take care of them. One has weak Eyes, thal is, she Sees best where there is not a glaring Light; and theresore begs the Room may be darkened on one fide; on which the rest, in a Sort of triumph, throw open all the Window shutters, and burst into a loud Laughter at what they call her affeba tion. Another is Subject to violent Pains in her Head, and consequently all noise is offensive to her; for which reason they Surround her, and hollow in her Earsy thinking it a good Jest, to cure her of being Such a delicate fine Lady. The Third is afflicted with a Flushing in her Face, and begs she may not sit opposite the Fire; and theresore the others always catch the Corners (and more especially in very cold Weather) venting great witti cisms on her Care of her Complexion. The Fourth, who I think is the least silly, is always plagued with the other three because she does not appear to have quite I fb
 IL 177
So much relish as they have for their Jokes on one another. And the old Woman helps to tease every one in her turn; for, as her whole Life has been one continual Scene of affecting to avoid Affectation, she thinks every one is guilty of it but herself, and is willing to cure her Nieces of all their Follies. In short, insfead of endeavouring to amuse and divert themselves, they are in eternal disputes, how much Light muss be agreeable to all Eyes; what Degree of Sound is most pleasing to all Ears, c. Setting bounds to the sensations of others by their own. And trifling as this may appear, it is the Source of half the disagreeableness that one meets with in all Companies, where Familiarity ex cuses Ceremony; for then Nature uncurbed, appears in her true colours, and selfishness cannot be hid : An arbitrary determination of the sensations of others being the strongest proof of the utmost care ieffness and Indifference, whether they enjoy pleasure, or Suffer Pain.
People are ashamed to confess they Seel no uneafiness from the Sufferings of
vol. I. K those,
17  VIL
those, whom they honour with the Name of Friends; and therefore the more effectually to conceal their own ill nature, they will not give those Friends leave to judge even of what they feel. When this dispofition happens in a Woman, who has any Superiority over her Companions, they must be all miserable. For want of Liberty in Trifles, is more vexatious, than
when our Actions are controlled only in things of consequence, which can beful us but Seldom throughout our Lives.
I Know one young Lady, who deals extremely well with this Sort of people. Her Father and Mother would tease out the very Heart of any other person; but She contrives to manage in Such a way, that she always shows them, how much they are in the wrong, and at the Same time pays them the most exact Obedience and deserence imaginable: For, whenever they won’t allow her to know what She likes, and infist upon it, that she must See, hear, and feel just as they please; she replies j That, altho’ She cannot help her Frailties, yet file knows her Duty too well, to dispute
 IL 179
pute their Commands; and, whenever they think proper to let her know their Will and pleasure, She will make it her buiiness to obey them. This they don’t like; for they would have her contradict: her own senses, and always do what is diplealing to her; and yet must it not appear that they command her arbitrarily, or govern her with Tyranny.
People, who are capable of being unreasonable in their converse with others, are not Satisfied with their Compliance and Submission. No, their Minds also must be inllaved, and apparently applaud that very Usage by which they Suffer. They would have you wear their Chains, but modejily expect you should not feel the Weight of them. A fond Mother, who whips her Child till it Smarts, and then whips it again, because it dares to cry at any eri vmr that comes from her hands, is no ill Picture of the Candour and good nature^ with which a little Power often inverts the human Species. But this Subject is always disagreeable to me; because I have Seen So many Examples of real Cruelty, under the K 2 pretence
io  II
pretence of rectifying others Faults; and mel with So many People, who are So very generous in this Instance only, that forgetting themselves, and neglecting their own Imperfections, they make it their whole study to render their Friends, their dear Friends persect; and bemoan their Frailties So very. much, that like all real Griefs, they Seem to be always uppermosi: in their Thoughts.
I W E N T the other day to visit the Lady I mentioned to you in a former Letter, who Was So kind to show me those pretty verses Sire recctved from her Acquaintance, and with whom I am lately become very intimate. I there met another Lady, whom I thought very agreeable, and who entertained me very well during the time of her stay, which was not above half an Hour. When she was gone, I asked my Friend who Ihe was, and expressed a liking to her coriversation. She Smiled, and replied, that indeed she did not wonder at my Approbation of biddy*s Wit, for she had exhausted great part of her Stock, to recommend herself to me as a Stranger: “But, continued she,
y take
 II ii
take care how you let her creep into an Acquaintance with you; for you northeast“ “can get rid of her again, without “being rude to her. I have known her “and her whole Family a great many “Years, So that I cannot bring myself “now to stiun her wkh any Incivility. “But she has Something very odd in her “Character; and, if you have a mind to “hear it, I will tell it you.” I immediately answered, 1 had a great Curiosity to hear it; on which my Friend obligingly began as Sollows.
“You must: know, Cynthia., that Biddy “has nothing of her own, but is made ‘‘up of patchwork, and composed of “Shreds, which she has picked up from “others. But borrowed Wit, like bor “rowed Money, is genially Squandered “away in a lavish manner, as People do “not think it worth their while to be “tenacious of what is not properly their “own. When Biddy was young, she was “very handsome, as you may easily per“ “and, altho’ her Fortune was but ‘‘ Small, yet her Beauty gained her many K 3 “Lovers.
i8  VII
“Lovers. But what is very Singular in “her case, is, that She never refused one, “and yet is to this day unmarried; Soi “she liked every Man who made his Ad“ “to her, and yet in reality liked “none particularly. Her Mind was toe “full of Levity to be fixed, and too vair “not to be pleased with every person, “who thought it worth his while to pu' “her in mind, that She was the Objef “of Admiration. She looked on hei “Lovers but as So many Looking glaffes “which were to keep up her Good“ “by letting her view her owr “Charms in the fairest light. The Gay “the Serious, the Young, the Old, th “handsome, and the Ugly were all equall;
Promoters of her pleasures; and con “Sequently She was equally fond of then “all. If She made any difference, it wa “to the prejudice of the most deserving “because, as she had a mind to engross al “agreeableness and Merit to herself, sh “Sometimes looked with Envy on even he “Lovers, and was afraid they might riva “her in Some Perfection, (which I be “lieve, is the only reason to be Sound ou
y So
 II 183
“for the choice Some Women make.) “But as to Biddy, all the Men of sense “were Soon difgusfed with her Levity, “and consequently left her; and, as to those Coxcombs, whose ultimate End in “following a handsome Woman, is the “Satisfaction of their own Vanity, by “showing the world she likes them; her “immediately appearing fond of them, “Soon made them tired of the pursuit, “as having attained their only View. “Whilst: her Youth lasted, and a succes“ “of Lovers followed each other, it “was indifferent to her who it was that “admired her, provided she was admired; “she passed her time with great Gaiety: “but now, that she can no more be fol “lowed and addressed, her only fleasure “is, to get new Acquaintance to hearken “to her Story, and to let them know of “what consequence Jhe has been. Amongst: “the Injudicious she is reckoned a Wo“ “of great Understanding; for, at “her first Seeing them, she is very eager “to vent what good Observations she for “merly picked up ainongst Men of sense; y and, as she is always ready to open her K 4 “Mouth
18  VII
“Mouth to Speak, or to laugh, they as“ “take it for granted, that what “she Says is entertaining. She is called “Miss Biddy everywhere; because she “will not give up her Pretensions to Youth, “nor part with her great Desire of making “Conquests.”
I Thanked the Lady for the Account She had given me of Miss Biddy \ and, as it was late, took my leave of hetj as I must now do of
; My dear Camilla.
( i85)
 III
Da vid Simple to Cynthia at the Bath.
Dear imadam, [From Londpn.
My Wife being a little indisposed, I prevailed on her not to write this Post, for fear the least: Fatigue, although attended with the pleasure She always receives in corresponding with you. Should increase her disorder j and I beg you will accept of my answer to your obliging  nstead of her’s.
Oh! Cynthia, I am charmed with your Characters of the Gentleman and Lady, at whose house you dined the other day. Every new Instance I hear of Such People in the World, is the greatest Joy I can conceive, and more than I can express; nothing but Proofs that Benevolence reigns in the human Mind, can make me avoid misery
i8  VIII
Sery in conversing with Mankind; an notwithstanding the many disappointmei I formerly met with in Search of Goo ness, yet am I Sully rewarded in havii found it at last; and that too in Such a d gree, as, if I was to be locked up Sroi hearing of others Misfortunes, would mat me happy to my utmost Wish.
I WILL relate to you a Story I hear a few days ago. A young Woman, who) Desires to do good are unbounded, altht her Power is very much confined, happene to be Seized with a violent Fit of the Tooth ach. Her Friends prevailed on her to con Sent to have it drawn, and they according! Sent for a Man to perform the Operation whom they had known Some little time but as he was not presently to be Sound they were for Sending for Somebody else t( relieve the poor Creature out of her Pain which every moment encreased; but sh( insisted on it she would stay till he coule be met with; and resolutely bore the raging Agonies of the Extremity of the toothache two Hours, for no other reason, but because she knew this Man was So miserably
poor,
 III 187
poor, that the Money she was to give on that Occasion must be of real Service to him, and relieve him as much in one way, as he did her in another. This was Good nature to Such a degree, that the very Repetition of it brought Tears of Joy into my Eyes; but I could not help sighing, when it was added, that her Delight in doing good could hardly ever be attended with any other sensation than that of Grief at her own Inability to put it in practice; for that the unhappy Situation of her Circumstances was the reason she could not relieve this poor Man, and yet employ another.
I Am lately Salleninto an Acquaintance with Delus, a Gentleman, the History of whose Life, (which I had from a third person) gave me great pleasure, and is as follows:
“DELUS was born of a gentleman’s “Family, and his Father had a good “Estate; but his Mother being extrava “gant, and both of them bad Managers, y they contrived to run it out, and brought
y every
i8  VIII
“everything to consufion by the time th “Sons (for they had more Children) wen “grown up. Delus was hated and ill “treated by his Mother from the time hi “was born. His elder Brother was thi “Favourite, but Delus was looked on a “Unworthy her Regard; and to my for “row I am told it is no uncommon Call “Sor Women (which very Name give “me an Idea of the utmost: tenderness “even to take Averstons to Some of they “own Children, whilst: they are madl; “fond of the others. But to proceed in m; “Story; Delus was left Some little For “tune by a Relation, which his Mothe “by her Artifices caused to be laid out So “his brother’s advantage, although h “was still unprovided for. but/^aljsag “could not root from the generous youn “man’s Mind his fixed Principle of fili “Duty, and strict Regard for his Parent “Welfare. When he lost his Father, h “undertook to Settle his consufed Affairs “Supported his Mother without ont “thinking of her former Behaviour t “him, borrowed Money to buy himself “Post, in order to be able to continue i
!! fhppo
 III 189
'Support her; and without any Selfish ‘ Regard what Hardships he went through',
‘ to bring about his only purpose of being ‘ at once jufi: to his Creditors, and good ‘ to his Sole remaining Parent, lived in ‘ Such a manner as to accomplish his wor ‘ thy and noble Designs." Such Instances )S goodness make me exult and rejoice in 3eing of the Same Species 5 and, to my Treat happiness, Delus is rewarded in hailing Succeeded So Sar, that he is now per 'edly easy in his Circumstances, whilst be has the continual pleasing Reflection of 1 Life So Spent; and I cannot help thinking it a Blessing to Sec and converse with such a Man. But I have been provoked two or three times by People to whom I have told this Story, (as I am Sond of telling it) who either Seem dubious in the Belief of it, or else by far setched Fallacies endeavour to find out Some other Motive than real goodness, for even Such Actions as these. This must arise from Such a Malignity, that I almost tremble to See the People who are pofieffed of it.
Now
19  VIII
Now, Cynthia, I have related to yo everything I have heard, except what i uttered by my Father and Camilla, tha has given me pleasure ever since I Saw you I know you partake of all the sensations C your Friends; and therefore heartily wish could communicate to you more Scenes o Joy, more Stories of Generosity and Good Nature. But I must here lay down mi Pen; or, is I repeat what other remarkable Scenes I have observed, as I guess your Heart by my own, you will be Sorr] to hear Srefh Proofs how Mankind make( each other and themselves miserable, b) that selfishness, which makes them overlook how much their happiness depend! on, and is Supported by each other.
I M E T two young Gentlemen visitin^ a Friend of mine the other day, whom 1 heartily pitied. They were in ragged anc threadbare Mourning; and their whole Appearance was that of an Endeavour to conceal their Poverty, whilst: by that mean they doubled its Burden. I asked m) Friend as Soon as they were gone, who the) 3 were,
 III 191
ere, and what were their Circumstances. He informed me, they were bred up with : he hopes of being Heirs to an old rich Uncle, who is lately dead, and who had barbarously cut off all their Hopes, and Daulked those Expectations which from bis own Behaviour were highly reasonable. I pitied the poor young Men, and told my Friend, I should be glad if any Method could be Sound out to put them into Some Employment, which might preserve them from being drove into wieked ness by the Force of Neceshty. But when I came to inquire more narrowly into this Affair, how was I shocked when I heard the true reason of their uncle’s dilin heriting them! It Seems they had been bred up with him from their Infancy, in which helpless State they lost both their own Parents; but no goodness of his could ever engage them to the least Gratitude, or affect them with the Smallest degree of Love; on the contrary, the moment they were capable of Reflection, they Spent their whole time in laying low Plots, and venting mean Invectives against one another to their Uncle; each hoping by that
means
19  VIII
means to grasp all his Wealth. The old Gentleman, whose Understanding was strong and vigorous, notwithstanding his Years, Saw through their mercenary base Designs, and equally disappointed them both; for he left all he was worth to a young Man, whom he chose for his Heir from the Recommendation of the Merit of having laboured to Support a finking Family; and who, I am told, intends to give Bread out of it to these two unnatural Brothers, aster he has let them Suffer long enough to be convinced at once of their Folly and their Grime. They are the highest Friends now in their distress, and Seem concern’d for thus causelestly having been each other’s Enemies. And I hope this bad consequence of their Perfidy wili teach them for the future to endeavour to astist, instead of pulling down each other. Such things as these would make me weary of Ifife, if I was not comforted at home, for all I can See and hear abroad.
My Father, my dear Camilla, and I, Spent the last Week at a little distance from Town 3 because I was told the Change
of
 III igj
of Air would be of Service to the good old Gentleman. We dined one day with tms and his Lady, where. we met Auks and his whole Family. The Day pasted very agreeably and with great Good hu^ mour 5 we were all entertained with a Welcome apparently sincere, and the whole Society Seemed to know the true use of affeiribling together, namely, that of receiving and git^ing pleasure. Auks invited us to Spend the next Day with him; but there the contrary of everything which had So pleased me the day besore> appeared. Luxury abounded to Such a degree, that the Table Seemed Spread rather with a De sign of catching the Eye, than of gratisying the Appetite. Statius and his Wife were So out of humour, that they could hardly coihmand themselves enough to keep lip to the common Rules of Civility; whilst: Auks and his Wife Seemed to be inwardly delighted with Something they could Scarcely contain 5 and the Lady threw herself into So many Postures, that I was afraid ihe was going into Convulsions; but have since learn’d it was Joy unutterable. I cbtild not then find out, nor imagine, what vol. I. L was
1^4 L E T T E R vln.
was the meaning of this Scene : but as we went home with Statius, both he and his wise, the moment we were out of the ' house, began to find gteat Sault with the Extravagance of Aulus, in living So much above his Circumstances; Saying; they wished it might last; for that they were Sure even they could not live Soj though they had treble his Estate. I now thought I had unravelled the Matter, and in my mind applauded the great Generosity of Statm ^ and his Lady, that they were thus uneasy at feeing any Extravagance in their Friends which might prove hurtful to them; And although I was Sorry for aulus*s Indiscretion, yet I could not help finding great excuses for him and bis Wife in my Heart, when I considered with what Joy they seemed to bestow even more than they could afford on their Friends. But alas! when I came home; Camilla and my Father undeceived me; and told me, the.ill humour of Statius and his wise arose entirely from Vanity; and the Seeing themselves So far Outdone by Aulus entertain inent 5 and that Aulus Joy took its rise from the mean Motive of having Shown th
cthcn
 m. 195
others his Superiority, and Seeing that he had Succeeded in pitjuing them. I was perfectly startled at what they Said, and cannot help grieving, that it is possible for human Nature to be So base and low, as to make one Man ruin himself in entertaining another, only to vex him; or that the other could be hurt by it any otherwise than from Pity of his Frailty, and Fear of of the consequence to him.
Tji r s brings to you and Valentine a pa renpjs Blessing, Camilla Love, and that
Dear jaadam,
i itou affedlionate Brother,
And obedient humble Servant,
DAVID SIMPLE. L 2
(196)
 X
Cynthia to David Simple a,
London.
Sir, ' [From the
Your obliging Letter brought m that pleasure, which I can neve fail of receiving, when I hear from you Camilla indispofition, I hope, is by thi time persectly remqved; Sori heartil wish everything may conduce to your Hap piness.
isnouldbe very glad to be acquainte with the young Woman, who had resc lution strong enough to endure Pain, i order to assist another; for her Goodne must be very uncommon. The g^neralit of the human Species cannot be So ba( but that striking Objects of misery mu " rai
 X 197
raise Some Small degree of Compassion. A strong Fire will bend even Iron; and Marble itself must yield to the irrefistable Force of the artist’s proper and well adapted Tools. And yet it cannot be denied, but the Nature of Marble or of Iron is to be hard, whilst every languid Heat will move the sost, the pliable Nature of Wax : Nor can the bending Oder relist the Smallest Force. So Some Minds resembling Marble or Iron in hardness, are yet not totally impenetrable, whilst others in sostness partaking the Nature of Wax, melt at every Woe, and embrace every Opportunity of extending and diffu ling their goodness. Of this latter Sort niust your young Woman be; and therefore her Want of Fortune is really to be deplored.
I Very much admire, and greatly esteem Ddus; but am not in the least Surprised at your finding So many People unwilling to believe his generous Actions: For Men very hardly give any Credit, when they hear of others practising, what tjiey know themselves to bq incapable of doing.
L 3 For
19  IX
For there are very few People, who do net argue with themselves ist this manner: Whatever goodness, whatever Under standing Humankind can boast: of, I am endowed with to the utmost: perfection; therefore it is impostiblc this Reptile, So much beneath me III understanding, So greatly my inferior in every good qua lity. So july, low, and mean. So everything that is contemptible. Should ever “be Capable of acting what is noble, great, and praiseworthy; nay, of exceeding m myfelfv
Then after long Cbnstderction, this mighty, this elevated Mortal in his own Ppinion, if lie cannot absolutely deny the Fact, as perhaps he dares not give the Rclatcr the Lye poftive, (for Such doughty Heroes are pot always persectly exempt from Fear) endeavours to take from the Merit of the Action; and putting it into the cold Labyrinth of his own dull Imagination, and tnixing therein great Quantities of that venomous Ingredient Pride, he extracts all the good nature and Benevolence, and throws it away 5 whilst he
i wisely
L E T T E R IX m
Wisely preserves that dross, which in his bwn pur blind Eyes appears most valuable.
A Bad dispofition appears most plain in dehyrng the Possibility of a good Action; ^
for there is a wide difference between bciilg overcome by Temptation, when Paffiorts with im^etqosity urge us on, and acting deliberately, Wheh the Judgement has fair play, and power to exert its utmost Force.
That Venom in our own bosoms proved, that mischief is our Dctight, and Goodness Qur Aversion.
Your Account of aulmh and std.tms*s Entertainments puts me in mind of Scenes I have been daily witness of: for nothing is So comrrion, as Mens ruining them selyes, to show others they are not already ruin’d. Eulus may forgive Statius, but Statius never will Aulus, For Vanity Satisfied, often turns into good-humour, is that esh be call’d So, which is only a Triumph over ariother's. Pain; whereas unsatisfied Vanity creates Envy, fjets and gnaws the Heart of whomsdever. it takes posscffibri; and, unable to contain itsctf, breaks out in L 4 Tyranny
|QO L E T T E R IX
Tyranny to every inserior; and with every Equal, in peevishness, when present; or, when absent, in malicious Invectives.
I Heartily wish the three Brothers you mention, may really reform their Principles, and mend the dispofition of their Minds, by their Suffering the diffress they deserve from their former Behaviour; but I greatly doubt it: for Men, like Children under the lash of the Rod, promise, and really believe they will do So' no more; but pn the first; Temptation, forget she Smart and relapse to she Sollowing the Bent of their own Natures. Few Minds are So very bad, shat great Adversity will not humbfe them: besides, So broad and various are she Paths that lead to miser, that all Mankind can travel in them without jostling one another. Here alone the Preheminence is joyfully given : whereas the narrow, the pointed Pinaclc, of what call Prosperity, can hold but Sew; and the suspicion each Individual has of every one who comes near him, makes idm endeavour to throw others down, that
sheir
 X 201
their Distance may prevent their being and Obstruction to his Schemes.
But if the human Mind was as venomous and malignant, as it has pleased Some Authors to represent it; if Men had but Understanding enough to know their own true Interest:, they would not be So osten guilty of destroying that of their Friends: for in the epd I have generally observed their own Defltuction has been the consequence.
A Gentleman, who was with Va -- lentine yesterday, when I received your Letter, and who has enjoyed all the Pleasures of Life, by having both Abilities and Taste to do good, Said, he had lately been told the Story of a man’s lise by himself, which Showed, how much Men procure their own misery,. when they fancy there is any pleasure in pulling others down. I begged the Gentleman to relate the Story; and, as he is always willing to oblige, he told me, that Jie had long been acqi^inted with an old Gentleman, on whose Countenance he observed So fixed a Melancholy,
202 L E T T ER IX
Melancholy, that he had always the ^r^atd Compassion for him, and at last asked hist the cause of it; when he replied, aft Some pause; Yes! — — 1 Will riibrtisj myself by telling it; and then began in follows.
“My Uncle tithe father’s Side died “at the Age of Five astd twstiity; life“ “behind him one only s6n, whose“ “was Stephen, As my Uiicle was “a younger Brother, and had married Sot ‘‘ Love, without any consideration of “Wealth, his Effects would but barely Satisfy his Creditors, aiid his helpless In“ “was thrown on the World without “any means of Support. My Father's “Compassion induced him to act a parent’s “Part by this Sorlorn Orphan. He took “him home, and bred, him up with mej “he made no difference between us; and “endeavoured all he could, to cultivate a reciprocal Affection betwixt us, I was not quarrelsome in my disposition;; we agreed So well in most cirqum stances, that there appeared to be a perfect Harmony established between
[[ US"
 X 203
“us. But as my Cousin in Learning, in Understanding, and in every other Ac“ “had rather the preserence,
** I could not exclude that gnawing vuu ** ture Envy, from my bosom; and every Proof of Admiration or Esteem I re“ “was poisoned, by the Fear of his “having a l^ger share. I could have “loved him sincerely (for there was no “fault in his Behaviour could I but have “kept him from being my Equal: This “one disquiet has embittered my whole lise.
“When we were Boys, in the whole course of our Education, my improving in Knowledge gave me little or no “pleasure, from the Sear he should have “one grain more than mysels: Our very “exercises and Diversions turned into Torments in my bosom, by the Anxiety, lest his Abilities and qmckness should *¦ surpass my own, ey^ry Breath that uttered his praisc, was loathsonae to me; ” and I could have no Joy but in finding “and exaggerating his Frailties. Thus I “have Spent my whole miserable lise,
y in
504 L E T T E R IX
“in Endeavours to keep him down, ra ‘‘ there than trying to advance mysels.
“At the Age of Twenty, my cousin was Seized with a violent Passion Sora young Lady, which in a very Short time “became reciprocal. She had a moderate “Fortune; and my Father consented to “the Match. At first: I was pleased he “was married, thinking I should now go “into the World by myseff, and be rid of “my Rival: But he brought his wise “home at first to our house; and her “saultless Behaviour made me almost burst ‘‘ with Envy: her Beauty and her Merit ‘‘ were continual Torments to me; not “that they inspired me with but
I cpuld not bear that Stephen should be happier than myself. He innocently re“ “in his own happiness, thinking I “participated in it: He used me like a “Friend. This Behaviour stung me to “the Heart; for I could not but See the “Beauty of goodness and Simplicity like his : I wapted to rob him eyen osthat; and yet knew, that the very Desire that V he^lhpuld have les goodi^essj^ was ut
y terly
 X 205
** terly incompatible with my being his ** equal in that Point.
“At last: I met with a Lady whose “Beauty was So striking, and So much ce lebrated, that I thought if I could gain “her consent to be my wise, I Should “then, in her Superior Beauty, have Sbme “cause to triumph over my Rival. I Suc“ “with the Lady, and still was as “Sar from my purpose as ever; for her “Temper was as desorm’d as her person was handsome. I could have stood this “with as much philosophy as Socrates did ** the Scolding of Xantippe; for my Wife “was So indifferent to me, that she could have given me no pain, had not the good sense and Soft disposttion of Ste ^ ** phee^ Wife torn me to pieces with 6n vy at the Comparison. She brought “him Several very fine Children, whilst I “and my Termagant had none. My Si“ “was So odd, that nothing could please me : I never wished to have Chil “dren; and yet now could not bear that my y Coustn should have anything I had not.
W H E N
2o  IX
“When I was Thirty, I lost my Fa“ “He lest me a very good estatcj “which he had improved and managed to the best advantage 5 and also provided “very handsomely for his Nephew, But “had he left me nothing, I could not have been more dilpleased than I wa, at the constderation that he had put Stephen out of my power. I thought, ‘‘ if he had been dependent on me, I would “not have Suffered him really to have “wanted; but yet, by the stow degrees in which I would have relieved him, I “could have contrived it in Such a manner, as never to have let him have any “advantage; but at the Same time he “must feel, that it was in my power, and “at my option, whether he Should have “it or no. bestdesj I could have given “him Such reason to stnd fault with my “Behaviour, that perhaps I might Some“ “have wodc'd his Pastions to Such a degree, as to have made him guilty of Some misconduct that would have been ” my utmost Joy.
i At
 X 2qf
"At last, by the mi$fojrtiine of being ‘ burned: ottt: Qf( his mpuse; when als his ‘ goodsfurniture, ^ and i almost every ‘ thing valu^ible he had. was, consumedj ‘ he was Sq impoyeristaed^ that. I had .it in niy, power) either; tp let him! want; or " to relieve him as I pleased. But every Method I' could invent, tp, make him ‘‘ either disconteritedi. or evenr to. appear 'S ungratesul, proved. sruitless*, He still ‘I Soared above me reduced .his b.xpcnces" as near as he could to hi gircumstancesj was thankfulfwhen Iialfistcd: him, would' “never.murinur nor upbraid.me when: I“ “¦ not; but ever, kep.ti uppermost in his Thoughts, that Ir wa there Sbnrofthe “Man who from his insancy had been “his Support, and used him withjpaternal “fondness. This greatness; of Mind“ “me to the Soul; my fbrttjnc.was “all thrown away upon me; I had: no “enjoyment of he. for whilst myccoufin' “could preserve his Integrity, aj«j keep “his Mind Sree from anxious Garesy I Law ** his Superiority, and pined at his good y ness, At last I cams to hate him to Such
“a
2o  IX
“a degree, that I withdrew from him all’ ‘‘ affiflancc, and should have been glad to “have Seen him Suffer the utmost: misery.
But even now I could not gratisy my “Revenge for the great Injuries he had “done me 5 Sora violent Fever Seized him, “and carried him off" in three Days.
“My sensations at the News of hij ‘‘ Death were So various, that to attempt “to explain or describe them would be “vain and fruitless; I was enraged to “madness, that I never could in any one Point, but that of Fortune, See any Superiority in myself over my envied Cou“ “Could I have thrown him down, I should not have cared what had been “the consequence to myself. His Death grieved me, as it was an Escape froiri “me. Time and continued Affliction, ‘‘ had he lived, I thought perhaps might have Soured his Temper, and con“ “his resolution. Now there was “no hopes, and my utmost Envy could y do him no hurt.
“But
 X 2d9
'‘but in a Small Space of time, now I had no pursuit, I began to restect: on what I had never yet thought on, namely, what I had been pursuing my whole lifetime; and Sound, that I had never bad an Anxiety, nor an Affliction, but what arose jfrom a Spirit truly diabolicah [ could not help thinking, how happy [ might have been, if I had conquered, instead of indulging this malignant spi ¦it. I have made all the reparation in; ny power to my coufin’s Family by fettling my Estate on his Children, and have piqued my own Pride to the utmost by this conseffion. Now, Sir, you will no longer wonder at my Melancholy, for which you must see my own Reflection is a continual cause.”
The Gentleman Said he was Surprised first at Such a Story of a man’s Life told himsels; and yet, that when he came consider of it, he was much afraid, if m would all honestly tell their owh )ries, this would not appear So extraordi •y as at first sight,
vol., 1. M This
gio LETTER
Th I s poor wretch’s Story is to me acoii hrmation of what has been always my opi hion; namely, that whenever two persons Interests Seemingly intersere, it is certainly for their mutual happiness to astist each other. This, I believe, is always true, except a Man is very Sure, that the only Enjoyment in Life worth his pursuit is that of Seeing another’s misery. Then indeed he must follow the Example of the envious Man in the Fable: And I believe he may lose his Eye, or knock out his Brains; without deserving, or meeting with much com pastion.. An Acquaintance of mine has turned the Fable I allude to, into verse and I have indosed it for your Opinion.
A FABLE.
CT^VVO wretched Men; by different Paf jions fwafd,
Together at Jove'r sacred Altar frafd.
A boundless Avarice solely this pojjefs*d, Malice and Envy racked the others Breajl, The God, who flamly saw each secret Bend. From high Olympus his swift Herald send. To ask their Prayer, and this Promise gkd. That each his full Desire shall receive;
But
 X ii
kt to his Friend a double Share be given )f ev*ry Suit which he obtains from Heaven, 3oth seem content. The Man whom Avarice fwayd.
Vith Joy exulting to himself thus says,
‘ When my Companion sees my Riches rise;
‘ His envious Spleen will Co much blind his » Eyed.
‘ That, overlooking his own doubled Store,
'Impatiently hell ask for Millions more;
‘ So, by his means, my Treasure shall be “brought
‘ T exceed my very utmost Wip and Thoughts Mistaken Man! Though Jove thy Prayer grants,
dnd adds a Million to supply thy Wants;
^nvy and Malice ever lie in wait The Happiness of others to defeat, dnd thus the envious Man to mighty Jove Ualicioujly does his Petition move.
To have one Eye put out. Great Jove, I choose.
That my Companion both his Eyes may lose.
I am,
CTNTHIA.
m2
'( 212 1

Spatter to Varnish at Tunbridge
Dear Varnish, [From London.
AS I promised, when you left
to give you an account how I pass my time, I will not break my word; and if you find nothing to entertain you in this Epistle, you niust thank yoursels for desiring Such a Correspondent.
I S ie N T three Day last Week with Paniphilus, but never any Creature yiras (o wearied out as I was; whilst I stay’d there j for his whole conversation runs on nothing but his own praises.; he makes himself the Hero of each Tale; and the Blockhead has not sense enough to find out, that there is nothing So plain a Proof of the want of Virtue, as the continual bragging of it. The Fear of being found out,, has, made
many
L E T T E R X 21^
nany a Murderer discover himself, by Irenuoully denying the Fact; besore he has een accused of it.
PAMPHILUS nevesread labrityere,
)r if he has, does not undersfand hini; for le would have been deter’d from eternally ‘ ilagiiing his Companions with his good less, if he had read and understood this temark: ‘ ^ The Man whio is incejfdnily talk
‘ ing of his ownbllmbur amd. Probity', affirms * that he does no Man drfy harm, that he ' heartily confentf alf the Mifchiff he doss ‘ others, shall return, upon hitfifelf, and. ad.fs ^ an'oath to give credit to what he say si ^ does not kmw' even how) to Counterfeit ' Goodnefsf* But this is not the worst; I Quid bear him, if it was riot for Selimend is Wise; she designs no harm, ^ and i^'jilw ribugh to fancy she does none; but'she is hat I call a Teazeri Nothing happens as’ should do; if she and her.dusharid had lit acted in such arid fath a manner, every ling would have flow ed in the right chan d: But Sure she is tue most unfortunate i^oman alive; for everything goes wrong lat she undertakes : She never makes a M 3 common
21  X
pommon Visit, but she finds out Some wifi Reason why She should have been happy if she had flay’d at home; nor never spends a whole Day in her own house, but besore she goes to her rest, she sits down, and bemoans the unhappy Selimena, who has Spen^ her Day in dull Solitude, when she might Jiave been better diverted, had she been anywhere, but there where her HI Stan had that Day confined her. Then she walks and struts about the Room, repeating, in an audible Voice, all the tra gick Strains her Memory can furnish, where Women lament their hard Fate, when Some dire Mishap has befallen them j the want of Liberty, the forcing Affection, ty rannick Fathers, disagreeable haughty husr bands, all are trifling Misfortunes, in kr opinion, compared to her most miserable, most to be lamented Situation, of having free Liberty to do as she pleases; and yet from all the Variety of amusements this World affords, not to be able to find out what Place, what Company, or what di ferfion would please her most.
I
  215
I Cannot contain my Laughter, when
See a Fool in distress for nothing; and am ike to affront her, because I do not be noan her Sancied nonsensical affected di iress: when, to complete the Scene, in : omes the Dotard of a Husband, who with .11 the Sawning Language of a dull syco )hant, endeavours to remove this his deary’s nuch to be pitied Torment, Sooths her with ll the Softest Terms he can invent, and .ppears the fondest, most indulgent huf )and the World ever knew; and yet in eality this is not done from Affection to ler, or from any Concern for her apparent jnealiness; but as her Folly is So very vi ible, that dull as he is, he can’t but See t; his Mind elated and exulting in the Shoughts of Superior Dignity, makes him eady to adore and prostrate himself at the 'eet of almost the only Object that proves ie is not the lowest Animal in the Creation.
As I was walking along the other day, nd apiufing myself with all the various shllfes I Saw, I met with a Man whose owncast Looks, meagre Countenance, en m 4 feebled
i
feebled Limbs, and worn out dress, made him the Picture of a Wretch, whose Dk stress was unknown to any but himself, and whose Poverty was so mixed with Pride, that he. was resolved to bear the utmost Extremities of it, rather than reveal his deplorable Situation. Curiosity rather than Companion induced me to observe and Sollow him. At the Corner of the Street stood a Man and a Woman begging Alms: Before the miserable Object I have been describing, strutted with erefi Mien and conscious Merit, a Gentleman adorned with So much Lace and Finery, that the two Beggars immediately accosted him with lowly Terms and Submiffive Voices, humbly begging his honoups Chatity: But he walked stately on, and paid no regard to their Tears or Prayers. The Woman followed him; for she could not help thinking the Gentleman So adorned must be pos seffed of Charity, and every other Virtue; but the Man (who 1 suppose had been long used to his Trade) turned from this fine Spark, and humbly Supplicated him, who himself appear’d in a Condition to move Compafiion. I. was Surprised, to See this ¦¦ ''' poor
  217
poor Creature pull out a Penny, and bestow it on the Beggar: But I overhearel him Say to his Companion; Sure thismel low mufl have spied fomethmg extraordk nary in my Look nd Manner,, that under all this difguife of Rags, he could think I had the power to - relieve him. And then he laughed at the woman’s? Folly,, who was not judicious enough to find out his innate Grandeur,. because his Outside was’ not adornedi aster this piece of Generosity,, did not walk two Steps, without beingstea^d for Charity;, and! could not help laughing to See' athc?/ giving away all the little he had, only for the pleasure of being thought able to give.
Bu t Money is not the only thinguhat proud; vainglorious Coxcombs are liberal of^ to Show their own Abilities; for do rilas continually plaguesv all his fancied' Friends with his Advice; not from the least concern for their Welfkre, but to show his ovvn great Superiority; and often in a grave, deliberate, forma, fiupdd Speech brings his nonsenfical Advice, when: he ^ - kriowsr^
is
knows the Action, about which, in his owff'. Opinion, he is so wife, is already done, and there is no recalling it; and he always takes care, from his great good nature, tell his Friends, he wishes they may act just: the contrary to what he knows they had done 5 and when he has crastily, in his long dull Harangue, provoked them to consess whatever he can Say is needless; for that they have already done, what he Seems to think, will be of Such ill consequence, which they do in hopes to ss lence him. Then there is no end of his Eloquence; he asks ten thousand Questions, why they did So; what could tempt them thus unadvisedly to be guilty of an Action, which he ransacks all Antiquity, and stretches his Memory to the utmost to prove, has always brought Destruction on whoever has been led into it. But if the persons he has thus treated, are Silly enough to be imposed on by him, and take his non fenfe for real Wisdom, or his ridiculous Pride Sora friendly disposttion, and Sail into the Snare of thinking him of consequence enough to consult him on any Suture qccasion, then he is in his Kingdom:
for, ^
  219
for, instead of looking forward, and thinking on the best Method of extricating them out of any Difficulties they may have brought upon themselves, it is impossible for a long time to drive him from the Subject of their past Follies: he provokes them to madness, by rubbing and fretting the store, which they feel but too much already, till they Sail out with him, and then he goes away with the utmost Con' ' of them, for not Sollowing his Advice, although' he had not even told them what he would have them do; for the Quarrel happened, before he was tired of taking a Review of their past indiscretions, or of exulting in the Thoughts, that he had not been guilty of the like.
In Short, Dorilas*^ Understanding is So low, he cannot See at all into himsels; his Passions So moderate, he has no Opportunity of exerting any of his imagined Wisdom in governing them; he burns with a Dessre of making himself some body; and therefore, as Scrub in the Beaux Stratagem, wanted a Friend to disclose his Secrctstoj So Dor Has cultivates a Friendship with
every
zicy
evety Mian, who is Idebt Cnbiigh notstosee through hiiri; in orde'f to have Some Vent r that self sufficiericy', Sorrie Sujiport for th§it imaginary Dlgmfy, he' has erected to hiriiself in his own injlfnifimfit Mind.
B u t Pride Wifi take hold of as Small Twigs to prevent fihkingi as the Man who is fondest of Lifd can possibly do So pre vent being’ drowhed; otherwise how could' Sedufm and his Lady Spenff their Whole Lives in self-denial, ' for no othcrreasbiij but to have th pleasiire of flattering theni selves, that in Some respects they are like the Great. When they are in the Country, they lie abed in the Morn ing When they have a mind to get up, only to indulge their own Fancies in imagining, that they are too delicate to be like those vulgar Wretches; who are forced to leave their Beds, in order to get'bread for' their fa rhilies; and on 2. Sunday, whtn the whole Congregation is rhet, I Have known thesc two dhvelerf trifle away' half an hour, only to make the whole Parish Wait their leisiireh and then looking as if they had perfdrnicd Some heroic‘ Action, strut
'¦ ' w. ¦
L E T T E R X 221
)ip the Church through Rows of poor People, who bow to them, because Necessity makes thern want their Favour, which they impute to Some innate Dignity in themselves. The clergy man, who officiates in their Parish, gives way to this, not from mere Flcttery, but because he has Understanding enough to know, nothing does So much mischies, as contending with the Vanity of pooid. When Bcaunts and his Wife are in Town, if they are starving with Hunger, they heroically bear it; and he Saunters in coffee rouses, whilst she is Somewhere or other, where she ha just as much to do, to wear out the Time, till the Hour when par liarnent mcn, and those who have great Affairs tp transact, sit down to Dinner, that in Something they may please their Fancy of being like them. They are Sure to be at every public Diversion, where they hear the beji Company are most likely to assemble, altho’ they have no Acquaintance amongst them, and are as if they were in a wt>dd by themselves. Was I to enumerate all the ridiculous Affectations, in which these Apes of their Superiors
222 L E T T E R X
periors employ their Time, I should fill a Choir of Paper; and at last prove nothing but that they are resolved to feed their Pride with Some Marks (as they think them of Dignity.
But I am tired of them, as well as of writing, and think I have already dwelled too long upon them, as there is nothing remarkable in Seeing Fools guilty of Follies, or that Idiots should follow their own Nature.
I H A V E not been well these three Days, and have lived at home by mysels, till I think I am grown quite ftupified, and as dull and senseless a Blockhead, as any of the People I have been describing; however,
I am always,
V ARN ish's
¦ Moji obedient humble Servant;
S P A T T E Ri
( 223)
L E T T E R XL Varnish to Spatter at London
Dear Spatter, [From Tunbridge.
[THANK you for your kind Letterj but perceive that in your writing, as well as in your conversation, you delight in dwelling on the dark part of the Characters of Mankind, and giving the worst Interpretation your Imagination can Suggest, to every Word arid Action of your Acquaintance : And yet Say what you please, you cannot impose on me So much, as to make me believe you are ill natured. But, instead of joining with your Opinion of Pamphilus., I should rather Sancy, his Manner of talking arises from a benevolent Delight to dwell on the Virtues of Mankind; and that being unsortunate in his Acquaintance, for want of another Object, his praises unavoidably Sail on hiirisels; or,
at
224 L E T T E R
at the worst, I can only think he has Some ffew Failings, which he is So nicely conscious of, that he talks of his own goodness, to throw off the Thoughts of even those tristing Blemishes, which are too apt to fix strongly in his Mind.
The harden’d Murderer hears of his Crimes without a Blush, whilst the poor Wretch, who has been driven by his Past stons to Such a Deed, without Premeditation, trembles at the Name of Murderer; nd, by the consciousness of his Fault, discovers himself. So shat what you Say, in my opinion, makes against yourself, and shows Pamphilus in a different light from what you would represent him. As to Southeast limena, perhaps ill Health makes her fretful J or she may have Some hidden Grief which you are a Stranger to; or it is not impossible but her great Innocence, and Fe of having acted wrong, may be the Cause of that uneafiness she shows at all her past Actions.
But how could you interpret the great Charity of a Man, who bestowed what he
wanted
 I 225
wanted himsels to relieve others, So Very Salsty, as to impute it to Pride. Undoubtedly his rejoicing that the Beggar thought him able to give, has Some appearance of what you Say; but I make no question of your misunderstanding him, and rather believe his own Poverty made him the more Senlible of that of others. Nor do I doubt, but that the Man you describe So finely dressed, would also have been charitable; only the giddiness of prosperity osten hinders People from giving themselves time to reflect:. As to your Account of' borilasy and his reasons for loving to give his Friends Advice, I am certain you must laugh yoursels at the Ridicule of it, and had only a mind to show how many ways you could turn Mens Actions; Sori ani certain, you cannot think any person would take the pains of advising another, but from the hopes of doing him good. Perhaps Dorilas may be a little sharp in his Rebukes; but that can be for no other reason, than because he thinks it necessary to cure his Friends of their Follies.
you I. N As
22  XL
As to Scaurus and his Lady, I think you are much too Severe upon them; for their trifling Frailties, and what you call Affectation and Pride, is only a careleffness of Temper, which makes them Sollow the Examples of others, without examining nicely whether they have any reason for So doing : They confider not the difference of their own Situation, and that of those above them.
Now I think I have mentioned every one you Speak of in your Letter, and sancy^ if you would give yoursels time to recollect every circumstance, you will find you have very little reason for that Satire, of which you are So lavish : I am Sure is you have,, you are very unsortunate in your Companions. I am So happy, as to be got into the most agreeable Acquaintance imagh liable..
The Ladies are all handsome and good-natured, and the Gentlemen all sensible and polite. miss Biddy Tipkin is grave and firms in her Deportment, and majejik in
her
 I 22f
ler Manner. There are people who call ler dull, and Say she has an affesled dig lity, which she wants to imppse on the njudicious, as a Mark of her strong un lerstanding; but for my part, I think it is iery visible, she has a philosophic Turn of Vlind, and is really above those Trifles, with which the: Generality of Women are de ^ ighted. It is true, she is not very hand bme; but then there is Something So inexpressibly agreeable in her, as in my Opinion Fully compensates the Want of Beauty.
Fanny Brown handsome, and gen?, teel to a miracle; and So lively, that I am never tired of being in her Company. Some Gentlemen here, who love to find faulti do not Scruple to Say, she delights in hearing hersels talk, and babbles nonsense all day long J but they are mightily mistaken j for I think she cannot Speak too much, because she is pleasing in every Word and Action. •
Mrs. Scarecrow is So genteel and easy, that I don’t think she would measure above a Span round her Waist; and from her being (lender, is So very light and nimble, N 2 that
228 L E T T E R XI
that she in a manner slides from one place to another without any trouble : she looks So pale and delicate, that I am almost: in love with her, every time I am So happy as to be in Kvr Company.
Then here is Mrs. Cherry cheek, who is So plump, and has Such a visible Content in her Countenance, as plainly indicates her good-humour; and, notwithstanding what iomc few are So Satirical to Say, namely, that her thoughtleffness alone causes her to be So gay and merry; yet I don’t believe, but that being obliging and agreeable, is in her the Result of Reflection, as well as her own natural good disposition. In short, Were I to describe all the handsome, genteel, well-bred, gcod natiiredl^tits here, I should tyre you, and make no end of writing. '
A s to Gentlemen, here is my Lord — who has So little Pride, that he Spends all his Time So familiarly among us, that he reserves none of it to himself; he rides, plays and dances with the Company; and has no Affectation of Singularity; and thinks
it
 I 229
t not necessary to his happiness ever to ?e alone.
Then here is Sir John -- -- 'who is
indeed a little more reserved, but it’s only \ becoming Gravity; and, whatever may be aid to the contrary, I can with pleasure Sec t is owing only to his fibre moderate dis )osition, and does not take its rise from my Sormal ridiculous Notion of his superl Drity over others.
Last Week (for the season is now ilmoft at the height) arrived Mr. Demure, vho is .always talking of grave Subjects, ind yet always in an entertaining manner; IS also Mr. Trickfey, who dresses So fine, ind dances So charmingly, that I am never ired with looking at him. In a word, I im the happieji Creature here in the world; ill the Company are agreeable to me, and ire my very good Friends; and I doubt lot, but, if I had any occasion to try them [ should find them very ready to Serve me. lut, as I am naturally averse to the ashing )f Favours, I have neither ashed any of hese good-natured Gentlemen for any Prdofa % n3 ¦
33© L E T T E R XI of their vt^ishing me well, nor made Lovt to any of the Ladies, notwithstanding I ap fharmed with them all.
J am,.
Spatter,
Tours, cv
A R N I s a
P. S. / forgot to tell you, 1 ioji my good Mother laji Week, and she died in a violentrackofpain.
(231)
 II Delia to Leonora at London.
Dear Leonora, [From the Country.
SINCE my Retirement into the Country, the natural Indolence of my Temper insenfibly steals upon me; and with an pxception only of the time I Spend in reading, I can hardly Say I am alive. You know I love London, not because I am very fond of great Gaiety and public Diversions; but because it is So much caster there to come at the Conversation I like. In this place I cannot help Sometimes falling into the utmost Stupidity: However, as either my father’s Circumstances makes it most convenient, or iis Choice most pleasant to him, to retire,
[ Submit without repining. I can affure teu, the Reflection that you are in the Part )f the World you chuse, is one of the, greatest pleasures I now enjoy. I haye al n 4 ways
23  XII
Ways been a great Admirer of these four Lines:
Thus from the Worldfair Zcphalinda few,
Saw others happy, and with Sighs witl drew:
Not that their Pleaftres caused her Discontent;
She fgtd, not that they fafdt but that she went.
There is nothing makes any person So much the Object: of my Contempt, as being uneasy at Seeing another enjoy what to them is unattainable.
This Place is So dull, it is impossible for me to Send you anything Sprightly or gay; though I have at present a Companion in the house who is my great Comfort. besore the Roads were impassable, (as now four long tedious Winter months have rendered them) my Father carried me about five Miles off to visit Lindamira, who is lately married to his most intimate Acquaintance and near Neighbour. She is so remarkably handsome, that it is impossible

 II 233 lie to See her without an Inclination to ie her,
T H E R E was a Lady in the Same Com ny, whose person was So desormed, that Teemed a persect Contrast to the other j d I naturally turned my Eyes from her, place them on the more agreeable Obit. I thought at first she was a Visitor; t when I found by her Behaviour she IS at home, I could not help reflecting iw neediest it was for Lindamira to stoop So mean an Artifice as the having Such Soil to Set off her Charms. But when I ard her call her Sister, I was glad to rn my Reflections another way; and be y already prepossessed in her Favour by r charming person, was pleased to think, at her good nature equalled her Beauty, was So taken up with admiring linda ra, that it was Some time before I took y particular notice of Lydia, (for that as her Sister's Name 5) but as by impor nity we were prevailed on to stay there Week, I had time enough to get well quainted with her,
Mt
^3  xir.
My Father and the Gentleman rode out every day, both for their Diversion and Health; by which means I had an Opportunity of observing lydid.s Deformity was all on the Outside. When the Company was mixed, I thought she Seemed to know hersels So well, as not to expect: any of the Gentlemen Should hearken to her with more Attention than common Civility demanded. She Said but little, till she was lest with only Lindamira and myself. Then She threw off all Restraint, and at once discovered Such a Refinement in her Sentiments and Such a goodness of Heart as Surprised me,
I Could not help condemning myself for having been at first sight So prejudiced by her Person. We Soon took So great a, fancy to each other, that by a very short Acquaintance we became intimate. lirf damira has generally a vast deal, of Company with her in town, where she is at present; and as loves Retirement, I begged the favour of her to. Slay with me till her sifter’s Return. She had not been
long
 II 235
ng with me, besore I perceived by her onversation, that Some remarkable Inci: nts had befallen her in the coursc of her ise. Curiosity led me to inquire into her istory; and upon my requesfc, she ob ged me, by beginning as follows :
“Ala s! Madam, my Misfortunes began at an Age when most People imagine we are incapable of having any. But this I know by woeful Experience to be a very great Mistake; for altho’ Children cannot extend their Views far enough to have any Cares for the Suture, yet are they as susceptible of Suffering from what is present, and more So (as ' their reason is weaker) than grownup' '
“My Father was naturally inclined to ' be a good Man, but of a careless dis “position, and So fond of his Wife, that ' he had an implicit Faith in whatever fly ' Said. My Mother, from a peculiar engaging sostness in her Manner, passed in ' the World for a very good natur’d Woman; but I am certain by the Treaty
ment
23  XII
“menti met with from her, that Vanitj “was the Sole Motive of almost ^11 hei “Actions.
"You See, Madam, the desormity ol “my person; I am Sure I have rcason to know it; for from the time I can rs member, I have heard of little else. My Mother, instead of being moved to com paffion by an Object which I should have thought was naturally Sormed to raise it, looked on me as the Monument “of her Shame, and could not bear the “Thought that I was her Child. She “used me like a Monffer in Nature j and “I verily believe, had it Hot been for fear “her own Reputation might Suffer by it, “she would have endeavoured to have prevailed on my Father utterly to aban ‘‘ don me. Little ugly Wretch, Pigmy, “all the opprobrious Names She could “think on, she thought proper to bestow “on me. I was always inclined to be “tender in my dispofition, and desirous ‘‘ to be fond of my Parents, if they had been kind enough to have indulged me y in that pleasure. I was five Years old
when
 II 237
hen Lindamira was born: yon See her resent Beauty; and from an insant she 'as always the Same. My mother’s ove for her equal’d her Hatred to me. he had her continually in her light. ut ordered the Servants to let me come) her as Seldom as possible, for fear the eautisul Child stiould be Shocked at le sight of So much desormity. This le never Scrupled to Say besore my Sace; ay, she Seemed to take a delight in urting me by all the Ways she could went; and young as I then was, she btained her cruel Desires by osten piering me to the Soul. I loved to be ^ith my pretty Sister; and she osten exuded her little Hands to me, which; ave me great pleasure. But this too ras denied me. I had no resuge, but iften got into Corners, and cry’d Hours y mysels, till my Eyes became So weak! could hardly See.
‘this cruel usage, by the time I was en Years old, made me hate to come lear my Mosher: she was doubly pleased vish it, as it fi’ced her from my Sight,
“and
23  XII
and gave her an Opportunity of instil“ “into my Father, that my Mind was as desormed as my Body; for that I had an aversion even to my Parents. He “had never taken much notice of me, but left me to the Management of his wise, whom he theresore thought must know me hest; and consequently Soon “came to hate me as much as she did. When any Company came to the house, if they took any the leaf! notice of me my Mother from that moment conceived an unconquerable Aversion for them.
Thus was I abhorred by my Parents, debarred conversing with my Sister, shut out from every Method of improving “my Mind; in Short, my Situation was “So deplorable, that it is impossible to ‘‘ give you an adequate Idea of it: and the Source of all this misery was, that “my mother’s Vanity was piqued at the “desormity of her Offspring. Tears and “heartbreaking Sighs were my constant Employment; and under the Burden “of this most barbarous usage did I wash y my hatescd Life, till I was Thirteen;
“when
L E T T E R XII 23 §
rhen one day, walking a little way rom the house, I accidentally met my ittle Sister Lindamira. I took her up n my Arms, and joyfully embraced this Dpportunity of playing with her She seemed pleased with it, and for that mo [nent I Sorgot all my Griefs. Here igain how dearly did I pay for only that short Respite from Pain! for my Foot tumbled against a Stone that lay in the way, I fell down; and with my utmost: Care could not prevent striking the Child a Blow in the Forehead. The Sudden Anguish Set her a crying So loud; that it immediately brought out her fond Mother to know the cause of it • but when she Saw me, and by my own Confestion found the Accident I had had, her Fury was too great to be expressed. She, aster giving me a Look which perfectly frighted me, Snatched up her darling Lindamira., and ran with her to my Father; where by Tears, affirming that I hated and envied my Sister, because she was handsome, and expres sing her Fears that I should do her Some ' greater mischief, she at last worked
y him
24  XII
“him up to Such a degree of Passion“ “he flew to me, and beat me So un “mercifully, that I took a resolution ra“ “to wander through the World, than “Submit any longer to Such inhuman “Treatment.
“I Knew not where to go; myfh “gum, I was very Senlible, would draw on me Contempt and Scorn. The Per“ “from whom alone I had a right to “claim Protection, were my Enemies;
what then could I expect from Strangers? “Yet dismal as my prospect was, I Set out “from home, to expose myself to any “misery, So that I might avoid the Sight of “my cruel Parents. The Hardships they “had exposed me to from my Birsh, made “them appear to me in a Sar different “light from that, in which Parents ought “to be looked on by those of their Off“ “who are bred up with Tender“ “and paternal Love.
“We lived within three Miles of a “Town; but I did not dare to go thither, ** lest I should be known by Some of she
“Inha
 II 241
¦ Inhabitants, and dragged to my wretched ' home again; I therefore directed my ' Steps through by paths, and Sorlorn Pla
¦ ces, wishing I might never See a human
¦ Face again. My Mind Sora long time was So involved in the Reflection of what
'I had already Suffered, that I lost all Consideration for the future; and the lively ' Idea of my past Sorrows, took from me
¦ all Feeling of the many wearisome Steps
¦ I trod : But Nature at Raft, Sunk and ' worn out with Fatigue, required Rest;
'the Night came upon me before I was ' aware of it, (So entirely was I destitute ‘ of all Thoughts for my own sasety;) I ‘ knew my Way to no house, nor indeed ' is I could have found one, had I any ‘ great reason to hope, it was in my power ‘ to have raised Compassion enough for ‘ me, to find any Shelter, or meet with ‘ any Protection. The Weather happened ‘ to be very hot, and I at Raft resolved to ‘ lay down under a great Tree, till the re ‘ turning daylight might enable me to ‘ pursue my way, or rather to wander ‘ friendless, wfithout having any Way to ‘ find.
vol. I. O The
24  XII
“The Perturbation of my Thoughts at “length exhausted my Strength, and I in“ “fell into a Sound Sleep, in which “I continued till the Morning, when I was “startled by the hollowing and hooping “of a Set of Boys, whom I afterwards heard were going to School, to a Vil“ “about two Miles distant. They stood still, and stared at me for Some time, “and at last burst into a violent Fit of Laughter. I was frighted at the Confi ‘‘ deration, that I was in the power of Wretches, who could think me a fit Ob“ “for Mirth, and began to walk. The “Soremost of them cried out. Do you think to escape us So easily, you little Baboon? with your leave we must have “Some Sport with you before you forsake “us. Then they all Surrounded me in “Such a manner, that it was impossible for. me to get out of their hands; and aster Saying all the most ill natur’d things they “could think on, they began to pinch and “beat me for the Diversion (as they term’d “it) of Seeing in how many Postures I ‘‘ could turn my beautiful Person. At last 5 “they
 II 243
they tied me to the Tree, under which I had Sheltered myself in the Night, and: went away exulting, as if they had gain’d Some mighty Conquest.
“I Now thought my Situation as deplorable, as it could possibly be; and expected to stay there, and be starved to, death. Indeed I heartily wish’d myself out of a World, in which I had So very, little to hope for, and where So much. Malignity reign’d. I could not help reflecting, that those amongst those Boys, who had any share of Understanding, might very likely pass through Life with ' good Character; and, by learning to deceive Mankind, hide that Rancour, which ¦ must poffess their Hearts. I had not ' long bemoan’d my own unhappy Fate,
'before an old Woman came by, and ask’d ' me by what means I came to be lest in ‘ that Posture } By her ashing that q^es' tion, I conceived Some hopes, that it ‘ was her Design to Set me at liberty, and ‘ began to relate to her what barbarous ‘ usage had forced me from my father’s ‘ house. As Soon as she heard those O 2 “Words,
244-  II
“Words, she turn’d away like a Fury, “Saying; She would have no hand in en“ “disobedient Children; that, for “her part, she did not doubt, but I de“ “the Punishment I suffer’d. It was “impossible for me to make her hear or un “derftand that I was not confined there by my Father; for she run on So faff, and “talked So loud to vent her Reproaches on me, that at last I left off endeavouring to “convince her of my Innocence, and re“ “obstinately Silent. I have often “since reflected, that this Woman must “certainly take a pleasure in continuing “in an Error, that she might Snatch at “an opportunity to indulge herself insher “own ill nature, • wshile she could by fal lacy Satisfy herself, that she was guilty “of no Crime. At last she left me; and, “altho’ it may appear absurd to Say, I was capable at that time of any the least Joy, yet I did really Seel Some little Plea“ “when I was rid of her.
‘‘by thus Seeing myself the continual “Mark of Scorn or Anger, all hopes of Relief forsook me, 'and I gave myself
“up
 II 245
‘ up entirely to despair. I was in this ^ condition, when I Saw a blooming beau ‘ tiful young Woman coming towards me; ‘ I had no Thoughts of even asking her ‘ to take me from that miserable Place •
‘ Sori expected a person of her Form,
‘ would despife whatever Such a Wretch ‘ as I could Say, to induce her to have ‘ Compassion on me : but the moment ‘ she came near enough to See that I was ‘ sast bound to the Tree, and could not ‘ stir, she ran to me, and without staying ‘ to ask any Questions, with her own ‘ Hands Set me free. I threw myself on ‘ my Knees to thank her, and expressed ‘ my Gratitude by my Tears. By this ‘ time she was overtaken by a middle-aged ‘ Woman, her Companion, who had been distanced by this charitable Creature's “eager Haste to relieve me. The Wo ‘ man immediately look’d at me with “great Severity; and then turning to my Bencfactrice, began to find fault with her “for her rafhness (as she call’d it) of “Setting me free, without first knowing “the cause of my being there; for, “continued she, perhaps she has robbed O 3 “Somebody,
24  XII
“Somebody, and I cannot be certain what “mischief you may bring on your own “head by this hasty Compassion. Come,
“let us make haste home : she might be tied there for a pretence only to stop ‘‘ People, till more of the Gang come up.
“Thus she ran on for Some time; but when I Saw they were going th leave “me, I begg’d the young Lady in all the “most persuastve Terms I could think on,
“to hear my Story; and then, I made no question, but I Should meet with her “Pity. The tender kind Emilia (for Such was my dear deliverer’s Name) was in dined to listen to me; and, not with“ “the Opposition made to it by her Guardian, vowed for once She would “follow her Inclinations, since she did not “know, but the Preservation of one of ^ her Fellow-creatures, might depend on “it. hook’d at her with Admiration,
*• when I Saw, that with all her Beauty,
“She could condescend to allow, that I “was of the Same Species; and after having “thanked her with the utmost earnest ness, related in as few words as possible“
“
 II 247
“the History of my Short Life. At the “Repetition of the barbarous Treatment I “had met with, Tears stole from eml “lids Eyes; she promised to exert all her “little Power to Serve me, and bid me “Sollow her.
“After walking near a Mile, we came to a Small thatch’d Cottage, into “which my Guide ran hastily, and made “Signs to me to follow her. I Saw she had “a mind to have an opportunity of Speak“ “to the Woman who lived there, be“ “her Companion (whose Bulk was ** So great, she could on no account mend “her Pace) was come up with us. Here “Emilia left me, desiring the mistress of “that little Place to take care of me till she“ “again, which she promised Should be “Some time that Day. My Eyes Sollowed “her, as long as they could have any “Sight of her; for as she was the first “person, who had ever given me an Op“ “of exerting the least Affection, “my Heart y^as So full of her Goodness that I had' no Idea of any happiness.
O 4 equal
24  XII
“equal to that of being continually near. y her.
“The good Woman brought me out “everything her Cottage afforded, Such “as brown Bread, fkimm’d Milk, hard “cheese, Long fasting had procur’d “me an Appetite, which made this homely Meal by much the pleasantest I ever eat. There I Saw a Scene of Poverty “with Content; three or Sour Children, who were hals naked for want of Clothes “to cover them, at first appeared to me “the Objects of Pity; but their cheerful vigorous Countenances, and the pleasure " they seem’d to take in playing with each ** other, with little Sticks or Stones, or “whatever they could pick up, Soon con“ “me, they wish’d for nothing more than what they had, and consequently ** that they were happy,
“Here under this homely roos I “enjoyed my first Taste of pleasure; for my Heart exulted in the praises I heard “of Emilia: I learned, that she was the y young Madam of the Village, the ’squire’s
y Daughter
 II 249
Daughter, and lived at the great house; which to this poor Woman, who had lever been three Miles from home, and lad no notion of anything out of Pa ifh, appeared to be the greatest Palace n the World. She was running on shout madam’s goodness, and telling me how she would talk to poor Folk with as much good-humour as if they werefine Gentry; when Emilia appeared, whose running had put her out of breath; and she Said it was with great difficulty she had escaped the watchsul Eyes which were Set on all her Actions, in order to carry me to the Place she intended to put me in for the present.
“I Who had never had any Experience of the World, Sarther than what I had Seen at my father’s house, imagined, when I looked at Emilia, and Saw her Beauty, that she must be happy in her Parents Love : And as her goodness was too great to lay any person she conversed with, under the uneafiness of Restraint and Fear 3 in our Walk I freely
“told
250 L E T T E R XII
told her my Sentiments, Saying, I was ‘‘ pleased to think she must enjoy that “happiness she So well deserved. But “she with a Sigh replied, that I was quite “mistaken; for, continued she, altho’ my “Parents Say they are Sond of me, yet “the great unreasonableness of their way of thinking makes me Sull as unhappy as is they hated me : for they have taken “it into their heads, that the only me shod of educating a young person to be “able to bear the Disappointments and “Crosses they must unavoidably meet with “in lise, is to contradict them from their Childhood in everything they desire or “wish. Sometimes I cannot help Smiling “when my Father and Mother allege as a reason for their manner of treating “me, that their Parents did the Same by “shem; when often the very next minute, both sheir eagerness to have their own “Way, makes them (although they have “a very great Affection for each other) “ready to Sail out about Some Trifle un worthy she least Contention.
They
letter m 251
‘ They have placed the Woman you irft Saw me with about me, to take care hat I don’t indulge myself too much; ind indeed they could not have found a iroperer person for their purpose: for iltho’ I don’t think She is ill natured, etas She ^ very silly, and is pofitiyely : ertain that she is very wise, she conse [uently makes everything of great mo nent; So that I have not my own li )erty in any the most: minute things in fise. If I have a mind to walk, I shall ither take cold or over heat myself; if I ike a fancy to read or work, I shall ertalnly kill myself for want of exer ife; when I am in a humour to talk, it s not fit for young Women to chatter b much; the moment I am filent, she renders what Company I shall be fit or if I caet speak. This Humour exends even to my Food; whatever I like s unwholesome, what I most particularly liftafte is always the properef for me. I .m naturally of a dispofition to make noft things quite indifferent to me; but
y this
25  XII
this continual Contradiction and Tea“ “brings a peevistiness on my tem per, that makes me Very uneasy. I “refill: it all I can; for there is nothing ‘‘ I dread more than losing the capa city, of enjoying that delightful Calm ‘‘ ness which, if I was let alone, would “be natural to me. f
“Here Emilia ceased; and before I had “time to make her any answer, we Hopped at the house where Ihe told me an ac quaintance of hers had promised to take ‘‘ care of me : That I must learn to work, and do what little things I was bid: And ‘‘ Ihe hoped Ihe Should be the cause of " my being happier than I had hitherto ever been.
•‘‘my Heart was so full of Gratitude ^ and Love, that I could find no Words “to express my Thoughts. We were “ushered into a Parlour, and received with great Civility by a young Woman, who although she was not deformed, yet “was So plain and harsh featured, that
"Youth
 II 253
Youth was the only Recommendation she had.
“iobserved by the time we had been there five Minutes, She looked at me with a Sort of a Sneer in her Countenance, that made me fear She was also amongfi: the Number of those who thought me a fit Object: for iairth and Laughter.
E MIL IA was obliged to go home; nor indeed could I attempt to trespass on • her goodness So far, as to alk her to venture to incur any Anger by staying any longer. But yet I could not help feeling the utmost Regret at parting with her. She begged miss Brompton (which was the Name of my new mifiress) to take great care of me, and promised to take every Opportunity of Seeing me; but Said She was So narrowly watched, it would be impossible for her to come often.”
L TD IA
25  XII
LTD IA here stopped her Narration but I wilfsend you the Sequel of her History in my next.
I am, c.
DELIA.
( 255)
 III
EONORA to Delia, in the Country.
Dear Delia, [From London.
THANK you for your Letter, and that Part of Lydia ^ you have ready Sent me; and it would be difficult determine, whether it gave me more easure or Pain. That you are confined to e Country, when you would chuse to be Town, must give me Some uneafiness; d yet your cheerful Resignation to your uty, in obeying your Father, not only eviates that uneafiness, but makes me oice in your resolution to Submit to what u think reasonable. For real Affection s a twofold pleasure, as it rejoices both the pleasure and goodness of its Object.
If
25  xm.
I F the human Mind has any Passion or sensation to which we can properly give the Name of Love, that Passion must be gratified, whenever the Object: of it is pleased, even though we have no Sarther share in Such pleasure but what Reflection brings us. And this does not at all contradict the Maxim, That Self-love is the Source of all our asiions,
Now that this Subject is in my thoughts, it brings to my Remembrance two Gentlemen (the one warmed with the Idea of Benevolence, and the other heated with the Notion that there is no Such thing, but in the chimerical Invention of man’s Brain) who argued in the Sollowing manner:
fl Gent, M y Friend, you are always talking of Benevolence and good nature, and Love, and heaping together a Set of Words that have no Meaning; Sori am convinced by the general Tenor of Mens Actions, that they love nothing but themselves. ^
2d Gent,
 III 257
2d Gent. Pray, Sir, if the word Love has 10 Meaning at all, how come Men to love hemfelves? For whatever we feel for others tho’ in ever so Small a degree) isit arises from he Same Passion that makes us feel for our elve^, it certainly deserves the Same Name.
ijl Gent, O H 1 not at all. Pride may nake us feel for ourselves what we can in 10 degree Seel for others.
2d Gent. And what is Pride?
ijl Gent. It is as much as I can do to orbear laughing at the Question. Is there my Man So ignorant, that he knows not what Pride is?
id Gent, 1 Soi insormation, Sir; Contempt is no answer : nor shall I be the viser, or you the better, for that ridiculous sheer, which rather raises my Pity than ny Anger.
ifl Gent. Then, since you require afer •ious answer to your Question, Pride is V LI. P
25  XIII
one of the strongest Passions Implanted in the Mind of Man. It is the Passion, by which we are ofteneft actuated, and in exerting which, we find our own Superiority either over Some other Species, or Some Individual of our own,
2d Gent. And pray how came we by this Passion.?
ijl Gent, You might as Well ask m.d. how I came by my Eyes.
2d Gent. Perhaps your answer to this may lead you to more than you imagine.
iji Gent, Why then, I believe it is a Passion implanted in us by our wise Creator, to make us emulate each other in great and noble Actions.
2d Gent. Perhaps that is true: But why then Should you assert there is no Such Passion as Love implanted in us for as great and as wise Ends? I assert poss tively, that I do Suffer for others Sufferings, and rejoice in their pleasure, for no other
reason
 III 259
leason, but because they Suffer or are leased. And this I call Benevolence or ove: IS you can assign it to another cause sith any colour of reason, I will no longer ispute it with you.
ijl Gent. If what you Say is true, why 0 all Mankind pursue their own gratifi ations, without the Consideration of any ling but themselves?
2d Gent. I Think your accusation luch too general; for numberkss Exam les can be produced to the contrary; and rhere it happens So, it is no Proof that lere is no Such Passion as lovc; but on j, that Self-love has the greatest: predc linancy over the Mind, and that the pas ons contend with each other. Your dar ng Passion Pride is osten overcome by ear; and yet I fancy you will not, for iat reason, deny its Existence in the dind.
if Gent. Ay, Pride, it is true, is my iarling Passion; it is that alone that pro iuces great and good Actions. Indeed I P 2 49
26  xlll
do allow, Fear may have Some influence over the low and vulgar Part of Mankind; but as to Love, there is no such thing; No! — there can be no such thing.
Here the two Gentlemen parted, the one with a heavy Heart, that his Companion was, in his opinion, in an error, and the other triumphing and exulting in the Superior Penetration he was convinced he pos‘ Seffed above his Friend.
Those Gentlemen who positively deny any Pity or Compassion to inhabit the human Breast:, make their Fellow-creatures a worse Compliment than Milton made even his Satan; for he allows him Some Mixture of the Softer Passions, tho’ outweigh’d by Revenge and Pride; as appears plainly by the following Speech, when first the envious Fiend beheld Adam and Eve in bliss besore their Fall.
O Hell! What do mine Eyes with Grief beholdv
Into our roo?n of Bliss thus high advanced
Creatures
 III 26r
Zreatures of other Mould, earthborn perhaps.
Not Spirits; yet to heaenly Spirits bright Little inferior; whom my Thoughts pursue With Wonder, and could love; so lively fines In them Divine Rqfemblance, and such Grace The Hand that formed them on their Shape hath poupd.
4h! gentle Pair! ye little think how nigh ^oiir Change approaches, when all these Delights
Kill vanish, and deliver ye to Woe,
More Woe, the more your Tafe is now of Joy; Iappy, but for so hapyy, ilufecupd Long to continue; and this high Seat your heav*n
llfend.d, for heav*n to keep out such a Foe is now is entepd; yet no purpof d Foe ^0 you, whom I could pity, thus forlorn; hough I unpitfd! League with you I seek, ind mutual Amity so freight, so close,
at I with you mufl dwell, or you with me : Ienceforth my Dwelling, haply, may not please. Like this fair Paradise, your Sense; yet such iccept your makers Work; he gave it me, Which 1 as freely give: Hell shall utifold,
Lo entertain you two, her widefl Gates,
P 3 And
26  XIII
And fmd forth ali her Kings j there whl he room.
Not like these narrow Limits, to receive Tour numerous Offspring : If no better Place, Thank him who puts me, loath, to this Revenge
On you who wronged me not, for him wh wronged.
And should I at your harmless Innocence Melt, as I do, yet public Reason juji. Honour and Empire, with Revenge enlarged, By conquering this new World, compel me now To do what elfe, thd. damned, Ifhould abhor.
It is very visible, that Milton not only makes the Devil have Some Compassion, but also thinks it necessary to make him reflect: on Honour and Empire, before even he, though damned, can, unprovoked, resolve on the Cruelty of destroying others happiness. I mentioned this Speech once to a Lady who doted on Miltm, and had read him twenty times; when, after con stdering a moment, she laid, “She was V Sure Milton did not mean, that the Devil had any Compassion, but only that he y was deceitsiil.'' This Lady forgot, that
there
 III 263
there was no body near enough to hear Satan when he Spoke this Speech : However, I made her no answer, but lest her tp enjoy her own judicious criticism without a Rival.
I Am glad in your Story of poor Lydia to find an Emilia; for I began to be asraid, the dreadful usage she met with in her Infancy fi*om her unnatural Mother, would have run through her unfortunate lise.
Pray Send me the Remainder of her Story as Soon as possible; and believe nie,
Sftc.
LEONORA,
p4
( 264)
 IV
Delia to Leonora at London.
Deal Leonora, [From the Country,
Your Dialogue between the two Gentlemen about Pride and Benevolence, brings to my Remembrance the Character of a Man, with whom I for merly Spent a great deal of my Time. His Name was Xantippus. A Strong Friendship betyveen me and his Sister, brought me into an intimate Acquaintance with him; the Love I vjsibly perceived She had for him, at first gave me a great Esteem for him; till one day accidentally I dined with them; when he rail’d at Mankind with Such Virulence, and dropped Such bitter Fxprefiions against his Fellow-creatures, that I could not Sorbear thinking he was the most ill natur’d Man, that was ever born.
The
 IV 265
The next time I met my Friend, Hie ked me with a Smiling Countenance, what thought of her Brother. To tell her my pinion of him, I imagined, would be )th cruel and rude; and theresore made; r very little answer. But my being re rved to her was So uncommon, that my; ry Manner let her into my Sentiments; id, being unwilling that I Should enter in a salse Opinion of her Brother, she ive me the following reasons fpr pfus's Behaviour.
You must know, Delia, that Mens apparent Hatred of Mankind osten arises Sroiii she real Love of them; and, not ’ withstanding that Xantippus, by his Be ‘ haviour, gave you So ill an Opinion of ' him, yet he is one of the best natured ‘ Men in the World. It is no uncom ‘^mon thing for Men to fall into Pafiions,
‘ when hurt by thosc they love. This ‘ was the case, the day he railed So at his ‘ own Species. One of his Friends had ‘ resused him a Trifle, which would have cost hjm very little Trouble orexpcnce
« to
26  XIV
“to have granted him; and his gries at this “resusal, made him for the present quarrel with all the Worlds But the next day, “another Friend's obliging him in a Trifle“ “him turn Mankind into Angels.
XANTIPPUS has So strong an Imagination, that he lets it have an In“ “over even his philosophy; and “he thinks of Mankind, just as they happen to please or displeafc him. When “he thinks it just to hate the World, he works' himself up into a Passion, till he ‘‘ Sancies he does So : But this artificial 111- “nature (if I may be allowed that ex preffion) vanishes, when any opportu “nity offers of exerting it. And, as the Cat in the fable, who was turn’d to a Woman, the moment the mouse ap“ “Sorgot her late assumed Character, “and pursued her Prey; So I have known “my Brother, after making himsels believe that he ought, and theresore did “hate Mankind, in a minute’s Space exert “himself to the utmost, to Serve Men, “when he could have no other reason for '' So doing, but a general and uncommon “Benevolence,
 IV 267
Senevolence. We ought therefore not ilways to judge of Men by their Words [which often flow only from the present Humour arising from the last Accident that has befallen them) but by their Actibns. A Man who is naturally in: lined to love his Fellow-creatures, if he meets with good usage, will praise themif with ill u&ge, it is most likely he will Sometinjies rail at them. I suppose you don’t imagine, that all. the Writers of Satires upon Women, hated them; when I read those Satires, I pity the Authors; because I know, when People vent virulent Reproaches, that they have met with Some great Disappointment,
itifanjced! my Friend for unde ving me, and fm*omised her, that for the lire I would not be So. hasty in forming r Judgement. I greatly rejoiced with her. It I had been mistaken in the Character xantippussor I knew She loved her bro iv; and, if my Opinion had been just him, I am Sure she must have been very bppy.
1
26  XIV
I Cannot help being diverted at the Criticism of the Lady you mention, on Milton; and yet on constderation, I am Sorry there is any person, who could make Such a Remark. For, what must a' Woman be, who is So very Sure, that trying to deceive is always uppermost, that she will not let even Milton be any Judge of the Character he is painting? If this Lady has met with any one So unfortunate, as to have any regard for her, I am asraid that person will find, that it is not only the Devil, who would Set open Hell gates to entertain those they seek in mutual a mity.
I F o R G E T, that I am all this time detaining you from the Remainder of the Story you desired. The next time Lydia was with me alone. She proceeded as follows.
‘‘ I Lived Seven Years with miss ‘ Brompton; and, altho’ I can’t Say I was “So miserable as when at home (as ill U“ “from a Stranger Sat lighter on me,
“than
 IV 269
than when I received it from my Parents) yet I was very unhappy. miss Bromp* torfs Education had been quite contrary to mine; for, tho’ my mother’s Vanity went no Sarther than to wdsh her, Offspring amiable, yet she could See when they were not So; but her Mother went to So immoderate a height, that she was blinded to the Imperfections of everything she thought her imn; and bred up this young Creature with a Notion, that she was persectly the Object of Admiration. This, when she grew a Woman, and Sound that Men could converse with her, without being So much taken with her Charms as she expected. sour’d her Temper, and made her envy and hate everything that was handsome, and joysully embrace every opportunity cf turning into Ridicule every one whom she Saw more unhappy in her person, than hersels. She could not have met ' with anything more agreeable to her in ' that respect, than I was: Instead of looking on me with Compassion, the • Sight of me was the greatest pleasure; she had, because her own Vanity was
y never
27  XIV
“never So Sully Satisfied, as when She looked at me.
“When we were alone. She was Sometimes tolerably kind to me; but, when ‘‘ ever any Company caiiie to the Houst, “they were to be entertained at my ex pence; I was the Raree show produced “to divert them : And it is almost incre ‘s dible how many witticisms my unhappy “person afforded. Had not Sad Experience taught it me, I could never have believed “Such Numbers of People as visited Miss“ “(for She had a great Acquaintance all round the Country) could have has“ “So much Malignity in their “Hearts. There were indeed Some Sew “Exceptions; but they were looked on “by the rest to be tasteless and insipid“
“Was unwilling to let Emilia know the Treatment I met with, fearing, lest “She Should either think me ungrateful, “in repining at anything that besel me where She had placed me; or that, if “She had it not in her power to re ‘‘ dress me, I might give her Some Un
“easincss:
L E T T E R XIV 271
easmess: But, as I am naturally open and unreserved in my Temper, I one day let her into it unawares. Tears stood in the good creature’s Eyes, at the thoughts of any one’s being capable of So much Barbarity. I know not which way, Said she, to help it: if I Speak to miss Bromp
¦ tonne of it, perhaps She will not keep you
¦ at all 5 and I dare not have you home,
‘ Sori have no power there. My Spirits ' are almost worn out by the continual ‘ Dread I live in. I love quietness and ^ Peace So well, that I take all the care I ‘ can, not to offend, but it is in vain; for ‘ I am Sound fault with, because it’s for my
good; tho’, I am convinced, it is only to ‘ vent the ill Tempers of those in whose ‘ power I am. Thus you See my Situa ‘ tion is not much happier than yours;
‘ and I would have you comsort yourself in ‘ the reflection, that you are only the Sancied Object of Ridicule, ' while miss " Brompton is really So.
‘‘at this discourse my own Sorrows “were all swallow’dand lost in thethougbts “of my dear Emilia's; and from that time
y I
27  XIV
“I began to accustom myself to a Con“ “of the People, who could misuse “me for what I could no ways help.
“I Oft EN wish’d to See Lintiamira; “Sor, as I did not envy her, but on the “contrary, was glad the Beauty of her Per“ “would exempt her from my mis“ “I really loved her : but did not “dare to make any Inquiries, for Sear I should be Sorced to go home again.
“I Had once, while I was at Miss“ “a prospect of having every " thing I wish’d; for emilid.s Beauty en gauged the Admiration of st young Gentle“ “who was in the Possession of a “great Estate; and, is this had Succeeded, “I had no reason to doubt, but she would “take me to live with her. However, “this fail’d through miss Brompton Envy “and Malice; for she had the So much “admired Talent of turning others into “Ridicule; which, as it must be a very great Entertainment to every ill natur’d “person, will always keep whoever is pos y Seffed of it, stom being melancholy for
y want
 IV 273
want of Company. Our young Spark was amongst the number cf those who took great delight in this manner of Conversation, which drew him osten to our house He had no Taste for Emilid.% Understanding or goodness; it was her person only he liked: for her Wit, as it was joined with good nature, Served to refine her Sentiments, andshake the Softness of her Heart yet more engaging, by instructing her in what manner fhc could best Sollow her own Inclination of giving others pleasure. But miss bromptoes Satirical Strokes, and ill natur’d Turns were much more Suited to his Palate. In short, she found Some method of making Emilia (who never in the least suspected her) appear to him in so ridiculous a light, that she broke off the Match.
“I Happened accidentally one day to over hear her at this Diversion 5 my Rage was So great, that I could hardly resrain telling her how treacherously she was acting by one, to whom she pretended to be a Friend. However I did Vor. I. Q y command
2h  IV
‘‘ command mysels for the present; but fesolved, whatever was the consequence, - “to tell Emilia of it the moment I Saw “her. She was greatly Surprised at miss “bromptoes Behaviour, but Said that it “Was likely to be a very great kindness “to her, as it might rid her of a Loven She had a great Dislike to: for that “the Match was So advantageous in re“ “of Fortune, that her Father and “Mother were continually teasing her to “consent to it; which, joined to her own uneasy Situation, perhaps in the end “would have engaged her to have married “a Man, she could never have been hap py with.
"I Was very glad to hear, that Ma“ “would fail of compassing it’s endj “blit told Emilia I would find Some Me“ “of going from a person, that I must “from that time look on in a detestable “light J and who perhaps thought me un “der a great Obligation for keeping me, “tho’ I wanted nothing but the Name of “a Servant; Sori did Sull as much for “her, as any Servant would have done.
y EMILIA
 IV 275
“E MI L I A promised that she would try to get me a Place, but in the meaii time begg’d I would take no notice of what had happen’d; for She did not design to make a public quarrel on Such an occasion, but would drop miss bromp tonne Acquaintance as quietly as possible. I obeyed her Injunctions; and, as I stay’d there but a very little while asterwards,
'I was not long under that Restraint; for in less than a Week Emilia came to ’ me, and told me, she believed she had ' heard oslindamira. Nothing could have
¦ given me greater pleasure: I heartily ’ begged her to Satisfy my Curiosity, by
'informing me what she knew of my
¦ Sister.
“The good natur’d Emilia immediate
¦ ly complied with my Request, and Said,
'she dined the day before about eight ' Miles off, at a tenant’s of her father’s,
¦ where the good Woman, by way of AMUSEMENT, told her a Story of a Gentleman and Lady, who died within a Week ' of each other, and left behind them a
Q y Daughter,
27  XLV
“Daughter, one of the most beautiful “Creatures that ever was Seen; but that “ever since the loss of her Parents, she“ “languished away her time in a lin“ “illness, and Seemed inconsolable; “that all the Neighbours Said, it was a “Judgement on this Beauty and Favourite, “because her Father and Mother had on “her account, by ill usage, drove from “them another Daughter, whose only Sault “was the Deformity of her person; and “nobody knew what was become of her;
“From this account that Emilia gave “me, ten thousand various Thoughts at once “possessed my Breast. The Death of my “Parents certainly was no loss to me; “and yet So artful are we in tormenting “ourselves, that, instead of reflecting on “the^nly Good that could arise from their “Treatment of me, namely, my having “no reason to regret them, I could not “help Shedding Tears; and yet had the “additional uneasmess of blaming myself “for So doing. I thought Lindamira was ^ “happy; for that the tenderness which
“accompanied her Grief, was a pleasure
\ 7!! I
 IV 277
I must be a persect Stranger to. Emilia Said, if She had known that what I had related would have had So much effect on pie, she should not have entered into it So abruptly; and at last by her promise to get Somebody tp show me she way to Lindamira, I was much comforted.
“I Spent that Night in great Anxiety, Searing what Reception I rnight meet with from a Sister, who I knew had been bred up with the utmost Prejudice to me. The next Day, however, I Sat out, with a Heart alternatively perplexed between Hope and Fear. When I arrived, I Sound the poor Creature Sick in her Bed, in a Condition very little different' from that of a dying person The Servant who was about her, haying lived with my Mother when I left Homcj remembered me; and Said, she was rejoiced to See any one from whom she could take any Directions; for her mistress was senseless, and knew nobody.. I Sat up with her all night, and found she was in a burning Fever; and in that Condition she lay for two Days; but on Q 3 ‘‘ the
27  XIV
the third She began to be cooler, and “got into a Sound Sleep; during which “time I inquired of the Servant, what “Thoughts were of me. She
“told me, that She had often heard her “lament my hating her; for that from the “time I went aw^y, my Mother had con“ “poitefled her, that I did So; and “that She Srequently Said, if I could have “had an Affection for her, She should have thought herself happy in returning it. “This was the very Temper I wished to find her of; and did not at all doubt but ‘‘ I should Soon convince her of my good Intentions towards her; but thought it ‘‘ advisable, is she should wake sensible, “not to hurry her Spirits, by letting her “immediately See me. I went and Sat in “the next Room, waiting with impatience V to See the Effect her Sleep would have “on her.
“In the niean time I learned, that “my Father and Mother had been dead “above half a Year; that Lindamira had “caught the Fever they died of, which y lest Such a weakness on her, that, joined
y to
 IV 279 ' to her .gries for their loss, disabled ' her from recovering her Strength j and ' that within this last Week her Fever re'
': And indeed she was in the ut ‘ most Danger. But how happy was I to ‘ hear when she awoke, that she was per' Sectly Sensible, and her Spirits quite calm ' and Serene! I ordered the Servant to ‘ acquaint her by degrees, that I was in ' the house. This saithsul Creature did ‘ it in Such a manner, that she convinced ‘ Lindamira of my Affection for her,
‘ and nide her wish to See me, com ‘ plaining how much I had been wronged.
‘ But the Raptures I Selt when my new ‘ Sound Sister admitted me to her Bed ‘ Side, and treated me like a Friend, are ‘ not to be described. It would be end ‘ less and unnecessary to repeat all our ‘ Conversation; but poor Lindamira figh’d ' at the Thought, that Vanity could have ‘ So strong an Influence over her Mother, '
‘ as to make her keep up a Hatred to her ‘ own Child even to the Grave. To her ‘ she was ever fond and indulgent to an ‘ excess; insomuch that, had not her Nature been too good to be Spoiled, she ^
Q 4 ‘‘ niight
28o  IV
might have made her miserable by the “other Extreme. My assiduous Cares and “continual Watchings with her recovered “my sister’s Health Sooner than my warm est Hopes could have given me any Ex“ “of j and I now first began to y be in a real State of Tranquillity.
“I Was looking one Day out osthe “Window, when I Saw Emilia with a Gentleman coming in at the Gate. I “ran down to receive her; they stay’d “Dinner with us.; and I thought that Day, in the Company of my two only Friends, “the happiest of my Life. The gentle man with Emilia was her Cousin, and “present Husband. herbeau
ty inspired him with So strong a Passion“ “as his Fortune, which is very large, “was then in his own poffieffion, the Match was not long ]n concluding, Emilia “had informed him of my Story; and he “Serioully alked me, before he made any direct: proposal to my Sister, whether I thought she was any way concerned in keeping up my mother’s Aversion to me y ^fter I lest her, I assured him of the
contrary.
 IV 281
5 contrary, and Said So much of the Sweet?
¦ ness of Lindamird.% dispofition, that his
¦ Love for her was increased rather than diminished by that Conversation. I won
¦ dered how Emilia got liberty to come
¦ and See me in that manner; but She has informed me since, that her Parents never refused to let her go anywhere with her Cousin, hoping he might make choice of her for a wise.
‘‘and now. Madam, I have gratified your Curiosity, and am come to the end of my Story: I don’t know a happier Woman than mysels. I live with a Sister I love, who never puts me in mind that she is miftress of the house, by any other Method than by taking the greatest Burden of all Family cares upon herself. J have continual Opportunities of indulging my Mind in gratesul Sentiments, which to Tne is the greatest pleasure in the world. The ill usage I met with when young, on the account of my desormity, has fixed the Idea of it Sp strongly in my Thoughts, thct I ney
ver
38  XIV
ver expect anything more than com, “mon Civility from Strangers; and as I don't vrant Admiration to jill up my Time, I can employ myself, and be very “well contented without it. I osten re flect, that had I been envious of my “sifter’s Beauty, and invented Stories to “have prevented her frorri being married “So advantageously, I might perhaps have V Succeeded So far as to have ruined her, “(for although' my Father gave her all that “was in his power to leave from his Heir, yet her Fortune was but Small) but I “must have iiwolved mysels in the Same “Fate: Even Sampson died undep the “Ruins of that house he pulled on the “heads of others. Emilia now is very “well married, and undoubtedly would have been a good Friend to miss Bromp ^ “tonne during her lise, had not her Malice “burst Forth, and shown her So unworthy of the Name of Friend,"
Her e Lydia ceased; and I resolved to send my dear Leonora her Story, as I know.you Sympathise So much with me,
that
 IV 283
at you are always pleased when Malice disappointed, or qood naturc With at Fate which it deserves.
I am., c.
DELIA.
( 284 ]
 V
Leonora to Delia in the Country.
Dear Delia, [From London,
YO U cannot imagine the pleasure the Conclusion oslydia's Story gave me; that She is at last as happy as She deserves to be, after all her unmerited Misfortunes, It gives me So pleasing a sensation, that it is much easier felt than described: But on the other hand, I cannot help being melancholy, vrhen I reflect on her being the Object of her mother’s Barbarity, the Scorn of those ill natured Boys, whose Cruelty tied her to the Tree, whence the good Emilia freed her; and on the Ridicule f that perfidious faise Friend miss Brompton, whose Deceit and Rancour J am pleased et with its just Reward,
What
 V 285
What could tempt People unprovoked • make lydid.s Form the Object of Mirth? dare not answer that q^stion to myself; r the utmost Malignity presents itself So rongly to my Imagination, that I cannot; ar to look at the Picture. The true Lots of Ridicule, perhaps, might be much iraged to find, that Cruelty itself is the luse of hals their Good-humour (as they rm it,) and be tempted to wonder at the lly of such as think Mirth is ever crimi 1. But let their Rage be ever So high, I List believe, that if those who are con ised into Laughter by improper Objects, Te bled, phyfick’d, and kept in a re nen used to Lunatics, till they are cured Such Convulsions, it would be for their ixi Emolument, and the public Good.
That there are Objects proper for irth, I do grant; and I think the follow i Passage in the Preface to Joseph An ms, clearly and distinctly points out those )jects.
y N ow
28  XV
“Now from Affectation only, the mis fortunes and Calamities of Life, or the “imperfections of Nature, may become the Objects of Ridicule. Surely he hath “a very ill framed Mind, who can look ** on ugliness, Infirmity, or Poverty, as “ridiculous in themselves. Nor do I be“ “any Man living, who meets a dirty Fellow riding through the Streets in a “Cart, is struck with an Idea of the ri diculous from it; but if he stiould See “the Same Figure descend from his Coach and Six, or bolt from his Chair with “his Hat under his Arm, he would then “begin to laugh, and with justice. In “the Same manner, were we to enter a “poor house, and behold a wretched Fa“ “Shivering with Cold, and languisti ^ ing with Hunger, it would not incline “us to Laughter, (at least we must have “very diabolical Natures, if it would;) but “Should we discovcr there a Grate in ‘‘ stead of Coals, adorned with Flowers, “empty Plate or China Disties on the Side“ “or any other Affectation of Riches and Finery either on their persons or in
“their
 V 28^
their Furniture; we might then indeed be excused for ridiculing so fontastical an ' Appearance. Much less are natural im persections the Object: of Derision: But when ugliness aims at the applause of Beauty, or lameness endeavours to display ' Agility, it is then that these unfortunate Circumstances, which at first moved our Compassion, tend only to raise our ¦ Mirth.
“The Poet carries this very Sar;
“None are for being what they are in “fault,
“But for not being what they would be “thought,
'Where if the Metre would Suffer the ' word Ridiculous to close the first Line, ‘ the Thought would be rather more proper. Great Vices are the proper Ob ‘ jects of our Detestation, Smaller Faults ‘ of our Pity. But Affectation appears ‘ to me the only true Source of the Ri ‘ diculous."
SUREI^Y
288 L E T T E R XV
Surely Men who love laughing, cast never die of the Spleen, for want of Opportunities of indulging it, whilst: that Grand Field of Affectation is left them, to wander and divert themselves in. I wish therefore they would not make salse Objects of Ridicule : For those who raise in themselves Contempt for others, and laugh at shem without a cause, will also find Some reason to hate them without a cause. The Love of triumphing over the Unfortunate or Imperfect, I believe always dwells in the Same Breast:; with the Desire of hurting those who are cither favoured by Fortune, or by Nature Sormed the proper Objects of Admiration.
The Thoughts of Lydia, and the desormity of her person, put me in mind of a very odd Scene, I was witness of a Fortnight ago.
My Mother carried me to dine with Dorcas, a Lady with whom she was very intimate in her Youth; and therefore would not break off her Acquaintance with
her,
L E T T E R XVI 289
: r since her Marriage; tho’ she told me, lat Dorcas was So altered, that She nov(r (liked her Acquaintance; and bid me ob •ve all the odd Scenes I should See very : entively*
When we arrived, we were lifher’d : o a Diningroom, where Dorcas was ting with her Husband Bellmour. I V she had almost cried her Eyes outj r could she conceal. it. Bellmour re ved us with great Civility, but look’d a : le consused, and Said; his Whfe, poor man, had been very low fpirited ail day, i he hoped we would excuse it We ked a little while of indifferent things, len Dorcas Spoke now and then a wui i So faint a Voice, that she could hardly heard. I thought she had really been •y ill, and pitied her; but on a Sudden, the accidental mention of the word 'vant, she fell into Such a Rage, and ked So loud, that I was Surprised, and aid she was Suddenly run mad. She Said She was the most unfortunate Woman Vgl. I, R y alive
igo  V
alive in her Servants; She could get nd ‘ ‘ body that would observe her Commands.” Then she enumerated Several Instances Of the Disobedience of her Servants, Such as the misplacing of China Cups, her Toilets hot being in exact: order, c. and concluded with Saying, Mr. Bellmour was So easy with his Servants, that it was iih poffible for her ever to make any of them good for anything. Bellmour replied, that she might turn them away, or do just as She pleased, for he never intersered; but he could not be all day throwlrig hirliself into passions about nothing.
This was a new Subject of Contetltioh: for dorcas, as fast as she could Speak fbir her Tears, Said, “Oh! now her ac quaintance were all to be made believe, “that she was a Very unreasonable Woman j “that she wanted to put her Husband into Passions;; little thought, when she “married himj that he would have been ¦ ‘ So cruel to have taken part with her y Servants against her.’*
This
L E T T E R XV 291
T H i s Dialogue lasted till Dinner, which s Served tip ih the hiost regular order,
1 where indeed Plenty seem’d to abound 5 !: nobody was the better for it; for it was Teas Will to find fault, and She was reject to be in the right. Now her mis tstnes were all redoubled; one dlsh, she f, was under drefled, the other over ffed; in short, nothing pleased her; she ' ild not eat raw Creatures., nor did she e her Meat fotlteh; Servants were al ys ih Lxtreshes. The Table was pre itly eihpty again, for she Sent away all; Servants with the different Dishes to te thern sry’d, broipd, minc’d; in short, have theni Sent up a different way.
ALL THIS time we fstt staring at each Ser, and nobody Spoke but Dorcas, who e hct Husband Such furious .Looks, as he had been guilty of treating her very; and every now and then it was hinted the Company, that his Eafmefs. was the ife bf all her Misfortunes. She was in J right ihdeed, tho’ in a different Sense R 2 from
 V
from what she meant it. Her two Daughters, who Sat at the Table, were really the Objects of Pity; for you may be Sure, they were found fault with, without ahy coniideration whether they deserved it or no. The poor Girls trembled and appeared So affrighted, that I am convinced they had rather fast than Sit down to Siich a Dinner.
However, Time and Patience at last brought about my Deliverance; Sori longed to be out of the house. When I came home, I could talk of nothing but Dorcad. and asked my Mother, what could make Bellmour Suffer his Wife to behave in that manner, es^cially as she was one of the plainest Women I ever beheld. “.Disto “that file owes all her Power, replied my “Mother; for, continued she, odd as it “may appear, a handsome Woman would “have no power over Bellmour. He has “often been present, where the Affectation “of Beauty has been troublesome to the “Company; and therefore joined the 1- “dests of Beauty and Affectation So strong
r ly
 V 293 ly together, that he resolved to marry i Woman, who was, as he thought, too ugly to be affesied: nay, he has joined the Idea of sense too to ugliness; and when he looks at his wife’s Face, notwithstanding her ridiculous Behaviour, he as much Sorgets it is possible for her to be 1 Fool; and is as much imposed on by the Strength of his own Imagination, IS ever any Man was by the Charms of he greatest Beauty in the World.
DORCAS has by degrees gone m from one Folly to another, till she is what you now See her; she finds her Power over her Husband, and therefore imagines herself very handsome: and, tho’ she is as healthy as any Woman in the world, yet She must: fancy herself ill, to prove her Delicacy, and Scold at her Servants all day, to prove her terr rible want of Spirits. Bellmour don’t fare to own to himself, he has ever been in the wrong, and theresore now pur posely deceives himsels.’^'
3 «
i
29  XV
I Could not help laiighing, that a Man should marry a Woman without Beauty, for the Sake of her underslanding, and yet require no other Proof of that Understanding, than the plainness of her Face.
I am, SCQ.
L E O N O R A.
C 295)
 VI
Gentleman in Yorkshire Simple at London,
SIR, [From York.
¦ S H 0 U’D not, as I am an utter Stranger • to you, give you this Trouble, had not le f[iftory of your Life Sufficiently con nced me, that you have no Defight equal that of giving others pleasure. In my esent unhappy Situation, nothing can So uch alleviate my uneafiness, as an op irtunity of giving Vent to my Thoughts, J imparting them to another. To the enerality of Mankind I find as total an ipoffibility of explaining my own sensa )ns, as it would be to make an Infant in or Separate Ideas, the moment it is rn; for what Men never felt, they can r 4 ¦ not
29  XV
not understand; and, as they enjoy nothing So much as that Indulgence of their Pride, v^ihich makes them imagine themselves at the very Top of the Creation they joip in ridiculing whatever they find is no Part of their own Nature; therefore to you alone can I give the History of my lise, which I will now begin without any further Preface,
I W A s bred up in the Same manner with most: young Gentlemen, who are Heirs to moderate Fortunes. Nothing remarkable happened to me, whiift I was a Boy. I contracted Several of those Friendships, that are common at great Schools, which commence without any other reason, than the liking the Same Sort of Diversions, and generally break off, either from being tired of those Diversions, or from the Envy, which a Superiority at a Savourite Game often creates; for at the proper Age, Children are as eager Rivals, when they are playing at Taw, as Men can be, where their Interest: or their Love is concerned. ut I never quarrepd with any one of my Companions, without Suffering three or four
^ ¦ " Pays
 VI 297
Days misery for it, and on that account was osten insulted, and treated ill by those who knew my Temper.
A T the Age of One and Twenty, I lost my Father, which loss for the first twelvemonth dwelled on my Mind, and made me very uneasy j but Time got the better of st, and I gave into a lise of as great Gaiety, as my Fortune would permit.
Three or Sour Years I Spent in this manner, till this way of lise grew irksomc to me J everything I met with, was perfectly unsatissactory and languid 5 I wish’d for pleasure, and did not know where to find it. pursuits I had none, for neither Ambition or Avarice ever pofsefled my Mind; and I was Sully contented as to Fortune, with what my Father had left me: So that, for want of Some motive to induce me to Action, I began to grow So very indolent, that I could not bring mysels to use exercise enough to keep me in health. The Body shared she Infirmities of its Ally, the Mind, and
every
gigs  VI
fvery thing around me appeared tafteless insipid.
Wearied out with daily Seeing the Sotq dull Scene over again, I at last: began to rouse myself, and Serionfly to confider whether there wa? m pursuit worth my follqwipg, no State of lise, in which I could be happy. The more I reflected, the stronger were my Conclufjons, that your Scheme was the only one, which could possibly produce me any pleasure or fiatisf^ctiot) of Mind, A Companion either it) a Man or Woman, who could have ^ disinterested Affection for me, appeared to my imaginatlqn to be the pply happinesi I was capable of enjoying; I therefore resolved to mahe a Friend of the flrff Man,, r marry the flrsl; Wqmaa I could esteein.
But I vm not so happy as to meet with e, y^.n your miss yobnjhn; for she hesitated greatly, whether she should prefer immense Riches to ypur generous. Love whereas I was So unfortunate as to find, in a short Acquaintance with all the Ladies I addressed, that the spectator’s Story of
the
L R T T B It XVI 299
the lady’s giving the pres^rmc^. to that Lover, who could bq^st 4 pidgcon houst i^ojre on his Estate th^n hia Antagonist, was in no degree unnatural,.
Amongst the Men indeed I had Nurnfeers of Friends; for every Man I drank a Bottle vritli three or fonr times, Segm’4 to look pn me in that light, bnt Some Aecident continually intervened to break off these great Friendships
I lost, by their being promoted oqe Degree higher m tly? World than they cx p, e<sted; others fdl intq aekjuaintancc with my tod or the Duke of
and cjpstsequently scorn’d to m Seen with ny bnt good. Company: And a great her of my Qompajiions I Ipst by their ma rying, on which they ge»eta% put on ail th Digmtyy Masters of famiji§ think proper to shv^st tbmjkhes wkh, imagined that they hgd a Rif ht to ewtaaad^ aod affumied a dictatoxial Anthorlty ajl thek Compaistons.
Friends thus got, or thus lost, could give me no great pain; but I Soon Sell into
30  XVI
to an Acquaintance with Cyneas, who really gain’d my Esteem. His conversation was very agreeable and lively; good sense and good Nature seem’d to dictate everything he Said; no overbearing Wit or inso lent displaying of his own Superiority was ever Seen in him. On thejcontrary, he adapted his Conversation to his Company, and seem’d Solid of letting down his own Parts, rather than disgust others, by Showing them their inseriority.
H E was married to a Woman, whom he was very fond of. She had no glaring Charms, nor could she have been the Object of public Admiration; theresore his Love had ho Mixture of that Vanity, which gives a Man great Indulgence, when he Sees his wise admired, by reflecting, that others wish in vain for the charming Creature, who prefers him to all Mankind; and makes hini look on all his Guests, as if he had an Inclination to Say, She is mine, and I am pleased to find her judgement and my Charms have made me the Object pf Envy.
But
 VI 301
But the Love of Cyneas took its rise From a more generous Motive, namely, that of Gratitude to a Woman, who chose him from amongst a number of Lovers, all ready to receive 300001. of which she was mistress; and her Behaviour to him aster she was his wise, was So faultless, that it was impossible for ill nature itseff, although' it had been assisted by Eloquence, to cast any Blame on her Actions. No salse Delicacy animated her to be in continual pas sions, to prove she knew'” when her Servants had made any Mistake; nor did any Vanity instruct her to make her Children troublesome, by showing whatever was hers had a Right to be So; but she bred them up in the manner she thought best for their real Good.
IN this reasonable well ordered Family I Spent four Years very happily. Cyneas was my real Freind, and I never once had reason to find Sault with him j but his Wife accidentally Sell into an Acquaintance with Clarijfa, a young Lady of lively Parts,
and
§5  XVI
and whpse Beauty was So striking, that if Was impoifiblb not td acknowledge the Force of it. The innocent and felaihelefs attiiistffi^rit of this young Beauty was ho other, than that of exerting arid displaying the litrhbst so#er of her Eyb§, to gain Frbfh tfery Whstiari of her adquairitarice, especially if she Wa her ptoseifed Priefid, the Hedtf of fhg Mari, on whorii hat whole tidppinefs dgpgrided* Theft Wheft the wo m§i1 grbw jealous, arid the Hushstild dr Lover becaftie tised of that jealouiy ( which is di ways ifftputed to she Height of ill huftlouf, by a Mari whd likes ariother better) the Edffhkfs gd'od mufp Jl vufiffd, was Sdrry for thb pbbr fbblish Creature : she had only a ^ mirid tft ifiake herself a Uhle Spcft j and, fbt her part Woftdctgd, how it was possible for any one to like the Wretch, whorn she had been thus Spending her time to allure &dtti a Wbftiafi, who was unaffectedly forid bf hilft.
S ft E ihkd(5 Attempts without suc 68is, dftd fititribferi&'fe j^amilies had reason to bliffe tte Mo'ui* they first fkw hei; whilst shg exulted in her Conquests, and enjoy’d X shose
L fi T T E R XVL 363 hbse Victories Whith though gained dt the Sxpence Of others Deftfiiction, tossed her lothing but a little Coquetry, that by the Force of Custom was becofilc natural to her.
Amongst the test, stib cast hct Eyes bn Cynem. My Friend was plestfed With her Cortipany, and for Soirie tiiiie did not Sofelbe the consequence. At last I ob ferved he grew thoughtful and itielstnchbly; nothing in his house collld please hini ais usiial: He cbtild riot beat thri Trouble bf childrm : His Wife, who try’d every Way bf obliging him, found it utterly iittptacti table; for sts the Cause of his being dis pleased Was in himselst stie cbtild not remove it.
B Y this means this Mouse, 'Which tlsed to be the scenc of cbnt^ntnient and l?iea sure, became all Confustoii aftd Oife'drd. Cyneas'% Mind was So formed, that he had iiiany Struggles With hiitiseff, befbrs he Would give Way tb So tinfeasbhable a Passion, till he had really piqued cldfijjd; and froin her uneastii^fs ofi that account she
began
30  XVL
began to imagine she W2S in love with hirfii The Moment he fancy’d her Love apparent, so many Arguments presented themselves in Savour of the young and beautiful Clarijfa, that he thought his good nature, Generosity, nay even his Gratitude, which was always his favourite Virtue, engaged him not to be cruel to her; who Seemed not unwilling to Sacrifice even her darling Vanity on his account. He could not bear to condemn himself; and therefore Set his Imagination to work to justify what his reason must have condemned; arguing thus with himself; “It is true I have great Obligations to my Wife; she loves me stncerely, gave me her Fortune without “any reserve; but then, where could she have bestow’d it to have led a lise more “to her own Destre} I have indulged her in everything she could wish, her Sta“ “was rather advanced by this mar riage, and her Fame preserved : Thcre ‘‘ fore what she has done for me, falls in finitely short osc/<^r/^’s goodness, who “in the Bloom of Youth gives up even ‘‘ her Reputation, and Sacrifices her Virtue y to my Love; therefore she certainly en
y gauges
L E T T E R XVI 305
'gauges all my Gratitude and Affection' When cyneas’s Passion became once strong Hough to make him thus endeavour by 'allacy to impose upon himselfj he Soon anquifiied all his Scruples, and abandoned imself to clarijjd.^ Love. And She, on, er Part, from imaginary Love; and real '"anity, perceived Such a pleasure in find ig no Man could from any Motive resist er Charms, that by degrees she was pre ailed on to deny Cyneas nothing that was 1 her power to grant.
What Sollow'd is easy to imagine j le Wife was miserable; Clariffd.^ Pride old not bear a Rival, nor a resusal of ly thing stie asked j Fortune and Family dpear’d Trifles to Cyneas, in competition ith his Gratitude to Clarijfa : and I sin irely think, he almost prevailed upon him if to believe he could not in justice make ertoo great a Sacrifice; yet from Some Small aspicion of my being So very unreajonable 1 to condemn his Conduct, he changed his riendfhip into Hatred, and looked on me his greatest Enemy.
vol. L S I
3di  XVII
Bore this Tjfeatment for shine tishc in companion to his Wife, flattering rnyfel f it might be in my power to redaim him. But at last he gi'ew insupportable, when Custom had made it habitual to him to act: ^ong; and when he found Pride alwfys ready to astist him in his own Justificatibn, he had no Bar to his Pieafures, no dbstaelfe to prevent die sttll Indulgence of his pas sous.
HI s Wife had no Remedy, no re fonsce; She had ntither Youth nor Beauty enough to touch the heats of Men by her Misfortistres, 'eten if she would have c6^ p’laiiim, '(which she never did) and as to Women, shose who were past their Prime, Or had never been the Objects of adhiita tion, gatte he‘r fitirtlds Pky; whilst the Young and haridsome; i'h Word's, e?rprelw Some Comphffibn for her, always adding -2 Supposition, that she rniglst postibly be culpable in her ¦behaviout to cynkrs; but in reality they 'extelted in wha.edrijfa had done, as they loosied on it as a Spieeimen ’t>f Sheir
wa
 vt 307
3wh Power; and their Glasses told them, ^^eglect was not likely to be their Fate.
Her Incapacity of any Relief made Zyneas quite regard less of his Behaviour towards her; and he was an Example, that what Men can do with Impunity, they ixecute with Intrepidity; in following their iwn Inclinations.
Lavish in Expenses on himself and he Woman he liked j he grew So parfimo ious to the Woman who had generousty iven everything into his power, that he sought the Necefiaries of lise extrava ance for her; and wonder’d how she could e So unreasonable as to want the Smallest art of what he had a mind to Spend on nother.
This tjsage, as it fell on a person not indictive enough in her Nature to vent er Passions in any Signs of Rage, prey’d iwardly on herself, and in a Short time deafed her from her misery, and her bar irous Husband from the Chain he So much >ng’d to break.
S ^ Th
3o  XVI
This Man, whom I had So much loved and esteem’d the whole time he had no Temptation of doing ill, had now So much lost all sense of Humanity, that he never reflected on the Cause of his Wife's Death; that was Swallowed in the Joy of having now an Opportunity of publicly owning his beloved Clarijfa, to whom he was married in a Week, to their mutual Satisfaction: for no shoner had the Name of Wise, joined to her Husband's unlimited fond nessi given her the Power, than she exerted all her Privileges to their utmost Extent; and by her Behaviour since has fully proved, that notwithstanding all the Appearance of Love there was in her first engaging with him, yet Vanity and a Resolution of not being baulked in her Design of making a Conquest of him, were the Motives which drew her into a Compliance with his Desires.
1 Know only by hear say what they did from the Death of Cyneafs first Wife; for I never Spoke to him since.
The
 VI 309
The great uneafiness I felt, when I found myself thus deceived in my good Opinion of a Man I had for four Years had the greatest Friendship for, I shall not attempt to describe, as your own Imagination will paint it in more lively Colours than Words can express it.
I Was now as much at a loss to find an Object of my Esteem, as at my first Acquaintance with Cyneas, with this melancholy Alteration, that my despair was much greater., Every Passion implanted in us, for which we have no Gratification, is a Burden 3 and therefore we are very apt greedily to catch hold cf the first Fancy, that we are arrived at the right Door to unload ourselves; by which means we often mistake, and are forced to take up our Burdens again, and most times with Come additional Weight, that makes us repent of being So hasty tp lay them down.
T HI s I experienced Several times, in iosh the Men and Women whom I chpse s3 to
310 L E T T E R XVI
to like, or rather vrhom I accidentally met with, and I wished to esteem.
At last I fell into an Acquaintance with Phihtas, and he has been my Torment almost ever stnce. At first indeed he was all Goodness, and So agreeable, that I was entste ly Satisfied in his Conversation, and thought my Happiness complete in his Friendship. But I have Several times, in the course of our Acquaintance, wished he would by Some real Villainy, give me an Opportunity of quite breaking with him; for he will neither act enough like my Friend to give me the pleasure which that Name infers, nor do anything bad enough te justify me in renouncing him.
He Serves me as I have Seen a Lady treat her Squirrel. When the poor Creature, impatient of his Chains, jumps and tears about, till he has almost loosen’d one of the Links, and is ready to get free, the mistress kindly takes him up in Such a manner, that the Chain is stackened, and he does not feel stand whilst she is stroking him
with
 VI 311
with one hand, with the other She rivets his Chain So fast:, that it is impossible for him lo Escape.
Thus phihtm, when he has psrqvoked me to Such a degree that I can bear with him no longer, generally changes his Behaviour, anti allures me back again. AU Qur Quarrels ate about Trifles; for J eom^^nd pyself to the utmost of my power, apd confine my uneafiness, till Some unexpected Trifle (which is yet a Proof of his Neglect) throws riie off my Guard, and makes me break out into Rage and Complaints to vent my Passion: But I always get the worst of it; for, as I see much rnore for him than he dqes for me, he is cool, whilst I am upon the rack. Lt the Hurry of my Mind, I forget all; my real causes of Complaint; he lave to dwell on the Triflle qn which I first broke out .: aid ishiis for the moment I am thrown in the wrong, veii m rpy own Opinioru
IN ie E 0 he aiw ays condescends to foi* give me, but will never conae to any s 4 Eclair
31  XVI
Eclairclffement on the things he knows give me the most uneasy sensations, because Truth does not please him; and it is a Satisfaction of his Pride, to treat the Innocent as guilty.
When any Misfortune or illness attends him, (as I am the only person that truly loves him) he behaves So well, that I begin to argue away all his Faults, and See him in the most amiable Light imaginable. Then we agree in all qur Sentiments; and as he has no Temptation to act ill, my Love exerts itself without any Disappointment, and I am pleased if I can any way Serve him. I cannot upbraid him, because I Seel more for him than he does for himself.
The People who probe their Friends Wounds to the bottom, and pretend they do it only in hopes to cure them, 1 am asraid Seldom mcan anything more than to give themselves the pleasure to keep up in their Minds the Idea of their own Superiority.
Th u s
 VI 313
Thus either his Misfortunes or be laviour keeps me in continual Affliction nd Perturbation of Mind. When I m in good-humour with him, I fancy very indiscretion and Carelesthefs he is; uilty of, arises from his being above the )read which often makes Mankind cau ious; namely, that of being suspected or bund out to be Fools : Nay, when he has 10 Temptation to pleasure, nor opportu lity of exerting his Pride, he behaves So veil, that I deceive myself So far, as to legin to contemplate the great Enjoyments o be found in Friendship.
I Think like Montaign, the Receiver )f the Benefit is the Man that obliges his Friend, and have no Idea of any acknow edgment of an Obligation, or any Thanks from my dear Philotas: And indeed, the moment he has recover’d his Health, or got rid of his tjneafiness, he proves himself, in those two Points only, the truest Friend ever any Man had; for he does not take any pains to avoid giving me Opportunities of being usesul to him, and utterly
loses
314 L E T T E R XVI
loses the Remembrance of all Obligations between us. Then Some of his Companions, whom not a Week before he had exprcfifed a Contempt of to me, for not coming near him when he was top ill to anaufe them, grow very fond of him, (hare and flatter him in his pleasures; and I am the only Enemy he has.
H E uses every one well but me: I sup pose because I am the only person his Pride takes umbrage at; as it may give him a hint, that I lone have cause (though I never put it in practice) to upbraid him. Nay, his Behaviour to all around him, besides myself, has Something in it So great and noble, that I cannot gpt a hearty Contempt for hiip: This pierces me ^ the Soul,
That thus mblameahk to all bejides.
Me errs to me alone;
Mis Goodness is diffused so hutfta^ kind,
And all kis Cruelly cqnfitd tq me,
I
z
...i
 VI 315
'do nothing but perplex myself to find )ut the reason why this should be 5 and ndeed I find it the greatest Difficulty in he world to reconcile Some Part? of his khaviour with others. But I verily be ieve, that as it has been always my ffrong st Inclination ever since I knew him,, to watch and act what best would please hina, irovided it would do him no Injury, that le looks upon me as a Creature made pur osely for him, and expects So much, that shea I refuse to comply with anything, [jqugh it be ever So unreasonable or h\ii*l “j1 to himself, his Pride steps in, and he )oks upon a Contradiction to his Will, rom one he imagines his Slave, as the reatest props of being his Enemy In iiort, he works my Pafiions Sometimes to oftness, other times to Rgge, nd I my ly almost to madness 3 thpiigh that Rage nd madness tiever vent itself on him, ut preys oi my own Mind, d tes bm mf all my Peatce, I have at times Imost got th? better of my Affects fcr iim>
But
3i  XVI
But der the dying Lamp te unjieady Flame
Hangs quivering on a Point, leaps off" by Fits,
And falls again, as loth to quit its Hold.
Then when the Flame is almost ex tinguistied, Philotas by kindness puts fresh Spirits to the Lamp, re kindles the Flame, and continues all my Torment. He is at present in his Humour of neglecting me; the Flame is almost out; and yet So sincere is my Friendship for him, that I have not resolution enough to break firom him.
I Make no excuse for troubling you with this long Epistle, but alture you, that it is Some Sort of ease to me, to have thus dishurthened my Thoughts; and I know that will engage you to pardon me. I dare not do it to another; for my Folly would be laughed at. It might be wondered, what J meant by having any Friendship for a Man I have any reason to find fault with 5 that is, in other Words, how
I
 VI 317
: an be so low to love any one who does t gratify ihy Pride, by flattering me mtinually with the Thoughts of my own [erit. But I know you will understand y Meaning, and pity my misery. I am, r, though personally unknown to you, ith great Esteem,
Tour obedient humble Servant
( 3i8)
 VII
David simple’s Answer to thi Gentleman at York.
SIR, [From London
IT H A N K you for making that use of me, in which consifts my chief pleasure, namcty, that of any way assisting to alleviate the Sorrows of my Fellow ^creatures; and, if at the Conclusion of your Letter, I had found any Account of your own happiness, the History of your Life would have been a very great Entertainment to me; for, as by Such Histories I get the Knowledge of Mens different sensations on every occasion, I had much rather be let into the various Labyrinths of their Minds, than read Volumes stuffed with the Chaos of Matters of Fact:, where Characters are undistinguishable
\
XVII 319
undistinguistiable, and it Seems to be regarded as a thing of greater coasequengc where Men were born, or where they died, that! What they did, or how they acted.
iconcelvfena great Esteem for you from the moment you told me, that you Was always Satisfied with what Fortune your Father had left you, without letting either Ambition or Avarice enter into your Mind; and pursued that much more noble ind Satisfactory pleasure, which true Friendship gives. This Esteem really interested me in every Scene of your Life, and I Sympathised with you in all your griess ind all pmt pleasures.
Your Acquaintance with Cyneas, and your Description of his manner of living with his Wife, inspired me with Joy, and I Was in great hopes, that then you had met with your utmost Wish. But how great was my Disappointment, when cla rijfa, whose out fide alone is beautisui, came and overturned the Peace of a whole Family at €mce. What could inspire her
wish
320 L fe T T E R XVII
with Such wanton Cruelty; and what Tortures must the poor wise of Cyneas Seel in at lingering Death caused by no other Distemper, than a Perturbation of Mind, arising from the Ingratitude and barbarous Treatment of the Man, in whose Love Ihe had fondly placed all her happiness, and where all her tenderness was center’d No doubt her Memory Continilally placed his former Behaviour besdre her Eyes • and the Comparison between that, and what She then fiifpered, was too dreadful to bear, and live; and theresore, no wonder She Sunk under its Weight.
I Am So affected with her Story, that I find it difficult to quit the Subject; and would rather go a thousand Miles, than Suffer the Misfortune of meeting with Cia rijfa, or her cruel Husband; tho’ from the account you give of him at first, I am greatly Shocked at the Consideration, that I may daily unknowingly converse with such Wretches.
Undoubtedly you did extremely right, never to have any converse with
Cyneas^
 VII 321
Cyneas, from the moment all hopes were oil of making yourself Serviceable to his poor unhappy Wife, whose Fate will always bring Tears into my Eyes, when any Accident brings her to my Remembrance.
PHIL OTA is’s Character is So odd a Medley, that I really don’t know what to make of k; and is a Proof of the strange capriciousness and Variety of Passions • are endued with. I am far from blaming your Conduct; for, if I had been So unhappy as to have met with him in my own pursuit of a Ffiend, I dare believe, I stiould have acted the Same Part.
His Faults Seem to arise So entirely from careleffiness and want of Thought, that I stiould have found it very difficiilt to have broke from him; and besides, by Some Hints in your Letter, it appears to me, his wrong Behaviour towards you often arises from suspicion: for, being of an impatient Temper, when you contradict him, he suspects you are alter’d in your Affection; and Anger on that accourt, vol. L T often
3js  XVII
often takes its rise from tenderness; though Undoubtedly you always mean his real Good.
I H A V E a great Compassion for whatever you feel; and wish it was in my power to give you any Advice that might be Serviceable. But to advise a Man to act against a strong Bent of his own Nature, I am Sensible, would be to no manner of purpose; and you yourself must be the best Judge, whether, if you had quite given up your Friend, you should not be more miserable than at present.
A s I should be extremely glad to a muse you with anything agreeable, I will relate a Story, which, as it gave me great pleasure, will, I hope, have the Same Effect on you.
There lived some time ago in Tork Jhlre, two young Ladies, Harriot and Prifi cilla. They were Coufin germans; and, as Prifdlla lost her Father and Mother in her insancy, her Uncle took the Care of her, and bred her up with his Daughter
Harriot
 VII 323
Harriot, The Sympathy of these two young Creatures Minds was So great, that they immediately grew Sond of each other; and, instead of quarrelling and fighting for the best play thing, their only dispute irose from the Fear each of them feltj est her Companion Should have anything worse than she herself had. Thus they "pent all their Youth in Tranquillity and Peace; and their strict Friendfhipj and : ontinually being together, appeared the greatest pleasure, that even their Imagina ion could Sorm.
When Harriot was Twenty Years of 'ige, and Prifdlla Eighteen; Publius a ^oung Gentleman, a distant Relation of heirs, accidentally came into that Country, rhe good old Gentleman, Harriot's Fa: : (who was Samous for his hospitality) nvited him to his house.
This additional Companion Was an ad iitional pleasure to the two Ladies; and, is Publius was Very gallant and well-bred, heir Conversation was lively, innocent, ind agreeable; but in a short time Gravity T 2 Succeeded
3h  VII
Succeeded chearsulness, and all their Meetings were uneasy, restrained, and melancholy.
IIAR RIOT and prifcula continued the Sympathy of their Tempers, and neither of them costld relist the Force of Publuis’% Charms and complaisance. They acted as Friends stiould do, and confested to each other the whole Truth, as Soon as they knew it themselves.
G R E A T as their distress was, they found Some Sort of Refuge from it in their own goodness, and artless Sincerity; and agreed, that, if the Object of their Love stiould Seriousty make choice of either of them, the other stiould give him up, and form no Defgn to interrupt her rival’s happiness
Many were the Hours they talked on this Subject; for indeed they could never f X on any other: and for Some time Pud urn carried it So even between them, that they could not find out which he liked best; till at last he So vif bly distinguistied V V ’ Harriot,
 VII 325
Harriot, and was So peculiarly assiduous to please her, that Prifdlla convinced his Choice was fixed. he kept up Strictly to her Agreement with her Friend, and never so much as thought of any underhand Plot, to Supplant her in her lover’s Affection. Harriot, on her fide, lost almost all the pleasure arising from mutual Love, by the Consideration of what her dear Cousin must Suffer.
PRISCILLA, whatever stie felt, concealed it as much as possible, and generously argued with iiarriat, that there was no manner of reason for her foregoing her own Happiness, whilst she could never be the better for it; that Publius had a right to chuse, and, in asserting that Right, he had been guilty of no Fault, or Treachery to any one: that Taste is involuntary, and not to be controlled; nor did she think, she had any cause to be angry with Publius, for not liking her; at least not So much cause, as he would have had to be difpleased with the Woman, who, to Satisfy her own Whims, would willingly be the Bar to his happiness.
T 3 In
32  XVII
In Short, l?i7rrd/’s Inclination, Publius Importunity, the father’s consent, and Prifcilk's Generosity Soon brought about the Match,
Two Days afterwards, Prifdlla was missing, and nowhere to be Sound. Har ^ Grief was inexprefflble; but whilst ’ She was lamenting herself, and bewailing her misery, a Letter was brought her by a Messenger, who, the moment he had deliver’d it into her own Hand, left the house, and would not tell whence it came. It was from Priscilla, and contained these Words;
“Love, and not Hatred, isthecausc of my absence: perhaps I could not command myself enough, to prevent a "melancholy’s overspreading me, which might cast a Gloom over all your hap piness. don’t inquire where I am gone; for I have taken effectual Methods, that you shall never find it out: When I can perfectly conquer this unreasonable
Passion,
 VII 327
"Passion, you shall See me again j till “when,
I am. Tour Jincere,
And affedlionate Friend,
PRISCILLA.
Thus this young Woman of eighteen Years of Age, from the Force of a fixed and strong Friendship, had power enough over herself to act reasonably, in opposition to the most violent Passion imaginable 5 for this she confesses, by quitting the house, and finding that nothing but absence could cure her.
Now, to conclude my Story, in two Years prifcula returned : Time had calmed her Mind, and she Spent the Remainder of her lise (for she would never hear of marrying) with her dear Harriat, and lest, at her Death, all she was worth to her Children.
PUB L lus was entirely ignorant of her having any other Love for him, than T 4 what
32  XVII
what arose from his proving a good huf band to her Friend; and always treated her with the utmost respect: and good manners.
IF this Story can amuse you as well as it did me, my Design in telling it, will be fully answered; for nothing can give me an equal pleasure, with hearing any noble or generous Actions of any of my Fellow-creatures; and your Ideas of Friendship Seem So like my own, that I cannot help fancying, there is a great Sympathy between us.
J am.
Sir,
Tour tnojl obedient humble Servant, DAVID SIMPLE.
If you cme to Town, 1 fiall take it as a great Favour to see you.
( 329)
 VIII
Ferdinand to Theodosius at
London.
SIR, [From Exeter.
AS we agreed to write only, when we had an Inclination, I shall make no excuse for my long Silence. Indeed, the very Thoughts of making an excuse to Such a Friend as you are, would be a Crime, as it would carry with it a suppo fition, that you could let a low suspicion of your Friend have a place in your Mind.
Last Night I Spent the Evening with a Set of Gentlemen, to whom I was introduced by an Acquaintance I have been very intimate with, ever since my Arrival here. It did not appear to me, that any of the Company were very remarkable for Understanding;
33  XVIII
Understanding; but, as they at first seem’d inclined to please each other, and agreed in Mirth and Humour, I was very well Satisfied with their conversation, till at Raft they accidentally fell into a discourse on Mr. yohnfon. I have very little Knowledge of him myself, but have been told by Several of his Acquaintance, that he is a very good-natured Man; and one strong Proof, that there is no Truth in that Observation, that Wit and good nature do not inhabit the same Minds.
However, the moment he was mentioned, he was abused in a m^ner I should have thought cruel to any Man who was not the greatest Villain in the World; but all in general Terms; for I could not find there was any particular Crime laid to his^charge: nay, one Gentleman told a Story of him, very much to his advantage, only he thought fit to introduce, and conclude it with an Affirmation, that he did not believe it; in which Incredulity all the Company, but my Friend and myself, heartily con curr’d. I could not help thinking, that this willingness to disbelieve any Stories
to
 VIII 331
to a Man's advantage, and at the Same time abusing him, without assigning any cause, must he owing to Some shocking Malignity in Nature. At Raft the great Crime he was guilty of, came out; for it was Said by one bf his abusers, with a melancholy Countenance and a forfowful Shake of the Head, that Mr, Johnson ctx^ tainly had a great deal of Wit; it was pity so much was thrown away on Such a Man: ay, Said three or four of the rest all at once, he has Wit, that’s true; but it would be much better for him, is he had less Wit and more judgement.
From this time forward, there was nothing to be heard, but the words Wit, judgement, Underjianding, Sense, Apprehension, c. which Words were immediately resounded in my Ears, and I could not find put Sora great while, what they were aiming at; sho' in reality they seem’d engaged in an Emulation, which should vent most: nonsense about Understanding.
I Asked my Friend this Morning how he could keep Such Company; when he
answered,
33  XVIII
answered, “That he went very Seldom “amongfi thern, and only carried me thi “there, to make an Experiment, whether" ‘‘ I, who knew nothing of them could “find them out; but, continued he, they “Spend every Evening together in the Same “rnanner, and are happy all the Morning ‘‘ in.thethoughts how they have shined the - the Night before. Mr. Johnson knows, ’ “and laughs at them; for there’s nothing So mean, that they won’t condescend to, " in order to get into his Company, when “they pick up every Word he Says, as " far as their Memories will Serve them, to Set up for Wits with, and at the Same time abuse him for having that Wit, y they are So glad to make use of."
I am. Sir, c,
FERDINAND.
( 333)
 IX
Theodosius to Ferdinand at Exeter.
SIR, [From London.
1 THANK you for your Letter, and am not at all surprised at the Scene you met with about Mr. Jehnfon; for nothing is so much the Object: of Envy, and consequently of Spite and ill nature, as Wit. There are numbers of Men who may properly be call’d The fullers^down; for they find an Impossibility to raise themselves, they fancy this pulling others down will make them equal with them.
I Dined yesterday with the famous NIX, Freeman. I am apt to be Somewhat reshrved, till I know my Company; and
his
334-  VIII
his great Reputation for Wit and humous made me at first very backvrard: But his Behaviour was Such, that it was impossible to be long in his Company, Without becoming easy, and well acquainted with him. Instead of endeavouring to exert any Superiority, his Understanding stowed from his Lips, without appearing to be at all in his Thoughts. He attacked nobody by way of Raillery; unless they began with him; and then with great good-humour took every Joke that was given him. And indeed he was not shared; for the whole Table seemed to be met with a resolution to fall upon him, and pull him down. No Jest could be too coarse to pass for Wit, provided it was but levelled at Mr. Freeman, Some sort of Caution appeared Sora little while; but when by his own condescenfion they found he would not bite hard, they threw off all reserve, and regarded not what they Said. The whole Scene put me in mind of Efop's Fable of the Frogs and King Log. these insignificant Fellows, like the Frogs, at first were afraid; and this Fear kept them in awe, till by degrees they found there was no danger: and then
nothing
 VIII 335 nothing would Serve them, but getting up and riding upon their King: And the Dread, once taken off, turned as usual into insolence and Tumult.
Mr. Freeman undoubtedly has sense enough to know, that by treating these Sort of Men with more Contempt, he might meet with more respect from them: But then, as it is the Bent of his Nature to be open and free, he muss lay a Constraint upon himself; which, in my opinion, is paying greatly too dear for the respect of Fool., whose Minds are actuated by nothing but Envy.
Mr. Freeman, tired no doubt with the nonsense he was Surrounded with, left us soon after Dinner. The moment he was gone out of the room, the whole Company together Seemed to strive which should Say most of such new Sentences as these j namely, that common Sense is the moji uncommon thing in the World; that some feo pie have all Sense but commmon Sense, cc. And then concluded with a compafponate Sigh for poor Mr. Freeman, that he had
no
33  XIX
not as much Judgement as Wit; which to prove, they dwelled strongly on every trifling Indiscretion that even common Fame had ever reported him to have been guilty of: and all the Comfort they could find to alleviate their great Grief for his Misfortunes was, that it is the common Lot of all Men of great Parts to want judgement, I could not help saying, that I thought he talked very clearly on every Subject, and that I could not See in what Point he was So very defective in judgement. On which was immediately Set up a loud contemptuous Laugh, at my great Folly, in not Seeing that his Wit itself was a strong Proof he could have no other Faculty of the Mind.
When I left this delightful Society, I could not Sorbear reflecting on the great mischief the Dread of having a less Understanding than our Neighbours, brings on Mankind. Hence it comes, that every Man of sense is the Object of the Envy, and consequently of the Hatred of Some jinail Part of his Acquaintance. And hence,
I think, certainly arose at first, the Saying, That Wit and judgement are never Companions;

 IX 337
panions : whereas they are really very good Friends, notwithstanding the Malice of those who report them to be always at variance, For proof of my Assertion, let any one ask a Man of real Wit his Opinion of anything, when his own Pastions are not at all concerned; and See if he is not more judicious than the Man of Prudence only, who indeed never stumbles, but then it is only because he never steps out of the beaten Path; and even there, keeps his Eyes continually fixed on the Ground.
I Think Men argue on this Head, if possible, more unfairly than on any other. For the true cause why Men of Parts are ever guilty of any indiscretions, is, that the Pastions are always strong in proportion to the Understanding; and there is a Part of the human Mind, very little observed, which never fails its attendance on the Man of sense; namely, the Imagination. This, in conjunction with the Pastions, I do confess, makes strange havoc with the Judgement; but for that reason to conclude, that Such a one has no Judgement, is just as absurd
it would be, if a Man took a fancy to endeavour to feed himself with his Feet, vol. L U
33  xlx.
to assert that he had therefore no Hands, even though it was very visible that he Sometimes used his Hands to assist him in his preposterous Attempt. I arn very well convinced by Experience, (fori have watch’d all the Men of Parts of my Acquaintance very narrowly for that purpose) that wis doni. Understanding, Comprehension, ap prehenfion, sense, Parts, Wit, with any other Names that Man may have invented, go hand in hand, and inhabit the Same Minds. But here by Wit I would be understood to mean true Wit; namely, a Capacity of comprehending various Ideas, and a Power of joining them properly together; And if this Definition be true, what is that Power but Judgement itself.? For I will not, from what I have here said, be answerable for that Race of Men, who actuated by Envy, and Spurred on by ill nature, poffcss a Power of railing Hatfe iaughs and loud ap plauses from the Malicious, by Setting the Defects of others in what they call a ridiculous light.
Perhaps you will think me arrogant, in contradicting the many great Men who have wrote on this Subject, and are of a
contrary
 IX 339
contrary Opinion. But this reason will hold in all cases, to Shut up all Inquiries whatsoever, and make us implicitly Submit to the Opinion of the first Man of sense whom we read on any Subject. The Man who, I think, gives the clearest Definition of Wit and Judgement, by that very Definition proves they do go together; and yet allows that they may not. The Reason of this to me is very clear; for as his Inquiries into the Labyrinths of the human Mind, are very Subtle and fine, he thought Wit, as the Word is generally used, too light a thing to be admitted as a Part of his own com pofition; and therefore would not believe, that what he thought he had not, was an inseparable Companion of Judgement. But as I am very Sure, that according to his own Idea of it, I can in Several Places convict him of having a great deal of Wit, it is not improbable but upon Such a Reflection he might have alter’d his Opinion.
Another Reason for the Outcry about the indiscretions of Men of Parts is, that the People who make the Outcry generally judge wrong of what is discreet, as in ths Example before related of Mr. ftaemati's U 2 letting
, 34  XIX
letting Fools make a King Log of him. Now a Man whose Understanding was two Degrees above these Fellows, and ten Degrees lower than Mr. Freemaifd. by an affected Dignity in his Behaviour, would keep them at a distance, and at the Same time exult in his own Superiority over Mr. Freeman in that Point: But he could not See far enough to know, that it must be granted first, that the respect of these Men is necessary to Mr. Freeman happiness, before it can be allowed that it is any indiscretion in him, not to take pains to come at it. The old French Proverb, that le Jeu northeast vaut pas la Chandelle, is very apt to run much in the Heads of Men of sense; whereas the very understanding it in its full Latitude, is beyond the Capacities of others.
Another fallacious Invention that kride has thought proper to adopt as a Reality, is, that it is possible to have Ideas ^ and yet not be able to express them. One stiould think the weakest Eyes might See through Such a glaring absurdity; and yet such is the Force of a strong Desire to be thought wise, that I have more than once
heard
 IX 341
heard it asterted by Men, who did not hv deed express many Ideas.
MON TA IGNE says, this is a mete Shift, and quotes Horace, Seneca and Cicero in Support of his Opinion. A Man may undoubtedly have a faint Notion, an imperfect Image and Conception, (according to the above mention’d Author) that he knows not what to rnake of within, and consequently cannot bring out j but to say, he has a clear distinct Idea of anything which he cannot convey to another who has a Capacity to receive it, is such nonsense that if the Assertors of it were not as void of all sensations, as they are of Ideas, they could not possibly Speak it without a Blustn
If indeed any one is conshious that he lives in a World by himself, that whatever he Says to the rest of Mankind, is like talking to an Infant just born: I will allow in that case, that he cannot convey his Ideas to others; but the reason is plain, it is because they cannot receive them; and not because he cannot express them. The Intervention of any Passion, as Pride, Fear, fdc. may take away a man’s Utterance for u 3 the
34  XIX
the present; but I only Speak what may be done, when the Mind is free from Perturbation, and has full Power to exert itself.
Another Fallacy taken hold of in order to Support Mens darling pleasure of imagining they have Some Branch of Understanding Superior to that of their Neighbours, is that common Saying, that Such a Man has indeed great Parts, but he knows nothing of the World. Now this Knowledge is generally confined by every Man to the Knowledge of that Society of which he is a Member. He knows most of that, and consequently that is most necessary to be. known, in order to prove an Understanding, which is the Point in view. And this Humour is carried So far amongst Mankind, that I actually knew a poor old Woman, who lived to the Age of fourscore in one Parish, who thought all Ignorance consisted in not Icnowing the Manner of living, and the Ways of that Parifii, which she did the Honour to inhabit.
The Several Customs and Ceremonies by whigh the different Classes. of Men regulate
 IX 34.3
gulate their outward Behaviour to one another, is a thing easily learn’d, if attended to, and alwaiys known by Men of Sense, as far as is necessary, although they may not always comply with those Customs; because if they contradict their own Humour, they sometimes will not give that up to any Ceremony whatever. But if by the Knowledge of the World is meant the diving into the secret Motives of Mens Actions, and the being acquainted with the deepest Labyrinths of the human Mind, this certainly may as well be learn’d amongst one class of Men as another. One should think, if anything could be allow’d as a Proof of Understanding, the unravelling this most difficult and knotty Point, would be allow’d so; yet to show what shista Men will make to evade such a Concession in another’s favour, I remember that I was once in company with a Gentleman, when the Difeourfe fell upon the human Passions, who talked so clearly even on that intricate Subject, that he proved, as far as the Nature of the thing would bear a Prooh every Sentiment he uttered. I was vastly pleased with him, but greatly surprised fou 4 hear
34  XIX
hear, the moment he left us, all the Company express their Concern, that notwithstanding all he had Said, he was a very Jilly Fellow, and knew nothing of the World. I stared, and asked them what they meant; and was presently informed, that he did indeed know Generals., as was plain by his Difeourfe, but that he was totally ignorant as to /« dividuals, (This by the by is no greater an Abfiirdity than to say, the Greater does not contain the Lester.) On which every Man in the Room told some Story of this poor Gentleman's being imposed on by the Treachery of others, where indeed he had no reason to suspect their Design of deceiving him : but yet this, before such Judges, was easily admitted as a Proof of his Ignorance and Folly. I told them, I thought there might be other Reasons for his being imposed on, besides Folly; for that as I looked on it to be possible that some human Creatures might have Hearts; perhaps this Gentleman's Love to particular Men might prevent his feeing So clearly into their Characters, as his Head would enable him to do; and no doubt the Intervention of any Passion must blind the Judgement j
and
 IX 345 and in that Cafe it was his Heart, and not his Head, that was imposed on. And as to the Characters of other particular Men, if he was ignorant of them, very likely he had never attended at all to them 5 but to say therefore he could not come at the Knowledge of them by Study, supposing him unprepostefsed with any Passion, was as unfair as it would be to say, because a Man did not chuse to dig in a Dunghill, he could not therefore handle a Spade. They either could not, or would not answer me j but still concluded, that the Gentleman was a very Jilly Fellow, and very ignorant of the World; which they all affirmed with a great Oath, or a jignijicant Gejiure and a loud Rap on the Table. these Arguments were not to be contradicted, and consequently I was not mad enough to attempt the answering of them. But to go through, or but to mention all the Evasions, Shifts, and Inventions Men find out to Satisfy themselves that they possess fornething Superior to their Neighbours, would be an endless Talk; a Labour like that of Hercules, in cutting off the Hydra's Head; for as fast as one is destroyed, another appears. In short, Mankind,
346 L E T T E R XIX
kind act about the Faculties of the Mind as Children do in their Scrambles for Playthings : throw anything amongst a Set of little Masters and Misses, Such as a Doll, c. that they think valuable, and all but the happy Child that gains the Victory in the Scuffle cry and roar, and are diffatis fied, till Mamma or nurse appeases them, by cutting out Paper dolls and mimic play things, which they affure them are full as good as the other. these they are fain to take up with; and all agree to insult the before envied Child, by assuring it, that what Mamma or nurse has given them, is much better than what they had Scrambled for. So far no mischief is done, and the little Masters and Misses are all contented. But the misfortune is, that it’s ten to one but the next Company that comes in, takes notice of the fine jointed, well dreffed Doll, and calls to that Child who holds it. Then returns the Envy into the little proud Hearts of all the rest, and they take every Opportunity of fpiting, vexing, and teasing the Object of their Hatrecl. Thus when a Man runs on a dull Harangue of an Hour, filled with trite Sentiments,
which
 IX 34.7 which he thinks Wisdom, and at the Same time affects to despise the Man whose cheerful Wit enlivens all his Companions, what is this but hugging the Paper doll? Or when another, who is insenfible of all pleasure, and entirely void of every Taste but that of a vain Reputation of what he thinks some Branch of Understanding, makes it the bufiness of his Life to Set up an Outcry at every indiscretion committed by a Man of Parts; does not the Paper doll again present itself to our Thoughts? And do we not plainly See, that while, like the Children, he cries, " Ay, Master, I don't care, mine is better than yours," he would give his Ears to come at the other. I am Sure I love indulging all Sorts of Children, as well those who by their Size are visibly So, as those who by their Stature at first sight appear to be Men and Women, too well to wish to take from them any of their pleasures : Only out of love to them, I would wish the pretty Dears to be contented, and not fume, fret, and gnaw themselves with Envy; which, besides that it is the worst thing in the world for their Healths, may happen to be discovered even
to
34-  XIX
to the Persons they hate. And then indeed it will make them very contemptible. And if Severity to any sort of Children is ever justifiable, it is certainly soon this account,
I M A Y be thought very unreasonable, to desire Mankind to sit down contented with the different Degrees of Understanding Nature has endued them with, and not vex themselves to no purpose, because they have not more. But if this thing was Seriousty constdered, perhaps it may not be So very unreasonable a Request as it appears by only a transtent View; for, to comsort Men, and encourage them not to be So very angry, if they are not at the very Top in this Point, let it be remembered;
ifl. That there is no Advantage of Nature, that is not attended with a disadvantage;; as I before observed, that the Pastions are strong, in proportion to the Understanding, and as there is so little Food for our Pastions, and so many ways of disappointing us in any Pursuit, in that
respect,
 IX 349 respect, I believe, we shall not find the Balance in favour of the Understanding: and as to the Gratification of any Appetites, I believe it will be allowed, that the being ever so filly will be no Hindrance to it.
2dly, I F worldly Interest be thought valuable, I look upon it to be most likely to be attained by Men not remarkable for their Parts; for they are constantly endued with Cunning; the true Definition of wluch I take to be, a Capacity of attending to Trifles, and an Art of imposing on others.
That silly Men may be possessed of the former, cannot be denied; and that they have the latter, I think will bear very little Dispute: : as the Art of imposing on others, consists entirely in being able to put on what Character you please;; as Men of Sense have almost always strong Characteristics of their own, they cannot so well appear in any borrowed Shape, as the Man, who has nothing to hinder his afiliming whatever P'orm he
thinks
350 L E T T E R XIX
thinks for his purpose: For it is much easier to write legibly on a blank Sheet of Paper, than on one already So filled, that it requires the double Pains of crazing the Impressions made there, before you can write anything new; a Labour that nothing in this World is worth : so that Men of Parts, from the Strength of their Imaginations and Passions, do generally appear in their natural Character, which is what I call Simplicity, and is directly opposite to Cunning; but if, as I suspect, Men mean Cunning, when they talk of Judgement, I will readily grant, that the dullest; Men have most of it.
Another Disadvantage Men of Parts lie under, is, that altho’ they are very ready to do friendly Offices to, and forgive Fools their Folly, yet Fools will never forgive them their sense. And, as their Numbers are greater, they have it sometimes in their power to do the otiiers essential Mifehiefs. But, if after all that can be said. Men will be so childish as to hug a Paper doll, and fancy it a fine Piece of Clockwork, or to stretch their Necks, continually ready to break
them,
3
 IX 351
them, in a vain Hope of making themselves taller than they are, whilst the Hurt is confined to themselves, they ought to be forgiven; but if, from finding the Impossibility of making themselves taller, they slily endeavour to cut off others Heads or Legs, in order to reduce them to their own Size; I wish there could be Some Punishment found out to teach them, that, if they would but take half the pains to come at the only thing truly valuable, namely, goodness, and a Love of the Society they are Members of, they might attain real happiness.
But if I cannot per shade any of my fellow creaturcs to be of my Opinion, I am convinced, if I was to publish my Thoughts to all the World, I should be forgiven. I might mount the Rojira, and with a little Alteration, use the Words Shakespeare makes Brutus Speak to the Romans : I might with Impunity address Mankind in this manner:
tvho's here so base, to own himself a fooh If any speak; for him have I offended.
Who
35  XIX
Who is here so rude, as to think lowly of himself If any speak; for him have I off fended. Who is here so vile, to place himself in the common Herd? If any speak; for him have I offended.
Then I might pause for a Reply; and dare venture to affirm, I should be unanimously answered :
“Non, Brutus, none.
The Conclusion plainly follows;
‘‘ Then none have I offended.
I Will tyre you no longer with my Fancies, but conclude myself'
'
Tours, c,
THEODOSIUS.
V
»
V
« ' t
f ^ '
«
, * I •
; C S; : ¦ i
. C ”. * - * '



J ¦ '

I I O H ^ I ¦ I ^ U J I ^" ^ I P y H ^"
\
> ¦ L
«
t ^ _
I
- * \ '
* r.
lisr iiiid'j.vv.m. ..r,, >' :., C •; •¦> • •: •
'“tn.; "-
- ¦- i ' 'J - ' ^
.• v £.r nft^e.**'v>/‘_i* i'. .-'. • •¦•' .v: : - T. ’.'' a • ...
^V' .d ’• T •• .•.••"•• ' -.'•.; ' : • ••... ...
AC: : b. -_
^mava
^sjk .• — < -. “• • •: t • - r '~ ........................<. •. _.....
•: ' >:;.; : •' 'e; •-¦. '•*'••: : ", .D V •: n : •. * .•., •
gispb: '- ¦- ^
V N; ^svc.rrf'e .^: .-. -• •• V..
^¦^'?; C/‘'7W, V .nl..v : •.; •*
astr^jjv. r— — —, vn., i \ \ .T ' Tv'
t : .c ^ '-\
¦-\ 'I -..; V -- -,.
- ' C ^ ‘N, J
te ii> '’ -
rt^ r fa - " " _ ^
CN'*
.: ._*^.*s./l : :, * J*^*.'V, T': **': ¦• .-. <'1 V*\... ¦*.•- ' *. -- C .'•••••• -, *-
mad -
- -. ¦; -, -.., -.'
v#nc' ' ‘
¦ -- L t .-'¦
^iviriytrfaad: .: d: ra ^ri\'ri ]'' .ar -- '': '\ -- '.-'
ffr’rid' r'a'^y'' 'y '.¦.; ¦'¦•¦.¦¦ - •¦ ^ — .'• -- '¦, ". -¦'
‘'T*’** * s i' '.. **¦; t. '* ***" ': N..'
y rivria' V L; C ¦-.;., ^. ¦¦; •.; -¦; •
; CV. : L., •;. -, v': ¦¦•- --.
V.*: ^.>..fvvy ', - /•' •; LV. : v • - .* •'. ¦ ^. - - - • •' - ^' ' - " * ' * * - *
>;. .L. •. _^-; ¦ ‘; * *.t n^v : „ • *'..**.* ^ ' ^ * -• *' *..-*. '
gs^> 'tc^¥f^nvw' ': y’'a d f: V fi: '-'¦/• .-'
V rv" -.-" .' .- ..¦ -..................................... ¦’¦•¦ _. .¦••
-¦.
-¦¦_ -- f _. ¦¦.¦¦¦-¦ - ¦ - .-¦
^ CLV : L -.- .i ^ ¦ ¦ ". ^ '
if^aari: : 0faaaririf arari ryr i ri y: ri’ VI; / V .¦.
nn 't i: ’-; V' v > : .'¦ ¦ '- vn
=. .D -¦ ¦. '*
*' AA l'a ff .'.. j. six. st' '.. ' ¦; : : '•-• ¦¦•'-'• .... • * •¦•'
*-; -•-'¦*. >**-'• ' ¦'' '• •*. *-* • *
V- -- .¦¦-¦¦' ¦- ¦¦¦¦¦¦'.-
: : s;. .0: 7. r -, ¦,. /, ¦•-
¦ ¦¦¦ -- ¦"¦ -- ‘ -- r] -
¦¦¦'¦’ ¦ * D' ¦¦ '¦- VSC he
'Ait V '^afvi b '
¦ • SI ¦, '¦ ¦¦"' '¦ ^ ' ¦
•' ¦.¦¦¦ '¦¦ '¦ - ¦¦'¦'¦: - '¦• A.
• i ¦ '•^', • N ¦.-. t ¦ -. -, A‘ ^ ‘. •,
, - \h^g: A ¦, ¦ ¦' ' ¦
:. C ' ¦ '¦ • \- -¦, f -¦ ^ '- o' • ¦ ¦-,
•* • ¦ "; -'¦^-, •. •. -- •• C. ¦ : V
. -' ¦ • - ./ •• •" - ¦•„ ¦¦¦¦. -- -¦•: ¦ ^
^ ^ • • •. I • ¦' • V *. -
•¦'•c ' ¦ '; ¦¦ - ’ ¦ .-^ '.:. N ^ ¦ J
•• ¦ - - 1 - » C. * • *.. : n •
*•’* '•**'/ * ^ f.
: ’ - \; I, ¦... -., :. ^ ' ‘ s
'-;. **•'*' i .-••*• ’
•, *
¦ -- - CL' ' ¦..; ¦'¦ V.
‘ l '.¦¦-¦ ¦ O A ¦ ... ¦ ¦¦¦.¦'"¦¦
• I.., ¦ ' ’ .: ' -- : i. y'• •-•• IV '
e • -- f ¦ ' -¦
¦¦" C ¦ ¦ VI ¦¦ -^ -- - : < V ¦ ^ fif'v \ - V ^
... ¦•-. - ...
V ...,..,.. ':.. '. ribs,,.. ' S' C -/
: - ¦'-
¦-'¦¦¦ .'¦'-¦¦.¦'¦¦- -¦¦• / .... ', ' C
—, -. ^ ....
- 'I
- - •; ••¦-. i
'' • A.., .¦ •; ¦..., V
. ' ' " -- t - •. ''- ¦
- ¦¦¦¦¦"¦
¦ ¦¦' ¦ -- ¦¦ 4 *
¦ ^ V L. ..-¦.¦¦¦¦¦ Fxm ¦
•¦¦ ¦ -. CA ‘
^ rt'
^ - ¦- •
I _ ¦ ¦] -- : Kjff
J ¦ •• L ^
'- ¦. .' L f
L. f
. .¦...'"• ¦' 'AC.
k • ^ •¦i'* ^*.
/ r '7^ ' L 1 a,,; V
¦ N' ' ¦¦ ¦-
¦ ¦ ' -¦ .- ': -'.• =' --
Af '. ¦ ^ ¦¦.
‘ riva' -- -- :
. * lu • e»‘, A
A J,. ''0 %,
'A i^ i** * .'¦*'' -. * 1' ¦ '.
il.. \ ^. > A - ¦-
¦ ^ trid •¦
il: : i
¦ ' ffd. ' ^
'A.V:
V - ^,
'' •'*’ * *
¦ “' ' V - /L v;..
‘ v
r ’¦ ¦ -. f :... ¦ -
¦¦ ¦ *¦ ON ¦-¦¦ ' te t Nte te s'‘'vv'v -.•¦ ¦
L, : A ‘ ¦ ' ’ ^, "¦ 'Li;;
**¦*¦*."*''¦/ ^ '.. *.
... NO' ¦ ¦: ' ¦ / ¦'/¦,. * ¦ ^,
. CC ¦¦^CC^ ’'^c.' -- LN S ¦ ¦ -
¦ -- - V ^' ¦¦-¦ C ¦ ¦ " ¦- ¦ S' ¦,. •' Cs' ' •
• • * * ^ *•
. /: : n: - N ¦ C ^ •_..........
i,,., ¦ ^
't' '. • '•¦
= C ^
*.•**•'*
'- - • '- ¦ ¦ %-
...' ¦'¦¦. ' nr^v'cctcc^; ^ ¦ ¦¦ ’ ¦ ¦'.
A -- ¦. ¦ ^.
iv - ^- • -¦ ¦. • '. -
.¦¦¦<¦ - ", - 'CV, -
¦ ¦, ' ¦¦ • ¦ '¦ F'" ¦¦' A ' f
... V : ' ¦ ¦-¦•¦ .- ^ '.O- -- - ¦ ¦.. ¦
CC S,. V -
C' v rr ' ¦.
‘S - • 'v.¦ y
ya - ¦, ¦.. -
.... ¦,.
- ' ¦ * - - - ¦¦'., ¦
-- - ¦ i at" -- - ¦ ‘ ' ¦- - ¦
, - I.' j '
1 •.. .-; i — rjft.j.'*
T
'¦> • ' L'' ¦. .-
.1 •, .••¦• -- ' ' j; ¦- ¦ '¦
FAMILIAR
LETTERS
BETWEEN THE
Principal Characters
I N
DAVID SIMPLE,
And Some Others.
To which is added,
A VISION.
By the Author of
DAVID SIMPLE.
VOL. II
L O N B 0 N:
Printed for the AUTHOR :
And Sold by A. Millar, opposite Katharine street in the Strand. M.DCC.XLVII.
t
• - • - V *
t
-* N *
•* t ^ V •. - ‘ ^ - ..... t'
r -. v4 • • - -- -- -^ '
i
» • '>
.*• V •., *••'** “.
*
?
•• 1 J
''a
«
. ' I '* • *-
^ • •
-- •
• ^
?
*-
• ^ T* M
^*-
*
«
(i)
Familiar Letters.
VOL. II
 X
Lysimachus ^(?gratander at
London.
silry [From Cambridge.
AS you permitted me, when I left Town, to hope for the pleasure of your Correspondence, I cannot help taking the first Opportunity of showing I am not insenfible of the Favour.
Vox,. II A My
/
  XX
M Y Journey was very dull; for, although' the Coach was full, I found it very difficult to make the least Entertainment out of any of the Company. We were all Men, which made me hope, we stiould Soon become acquainted: So indeed we did, and too much So j for I found every one of them without any Ceremony gave way to the natural Bent of his own dispo iition, without any Consideration for anything but himself. One was an Objection maker (a Character, I dare Say, you are no Stranger to.) It was impossible to propose anything he had not Something to Say a gainst; and all his Fright Seemed to be, that anything he had not first thought on. Should be right. Another was So tenacious of his own Humour, that he could not bear the least Contradiction, and keep his Temper. You may be Sure tbese two a greed extremely, at least if noise and wrangling about nothing can be called agreeing.
W e dropped the latter at the End of the Second day’s Journey; and then the Objection maker, if niobody elfe happened t0‘
form
 X 3
form any Scheme, or make any Proposal, would do it himself one minute, and aeon tradict it the next, rather than not keep his favourite Talent in play. I was sometimes diverted with the Oddness of his Humour, but could not help reflecting, if he had any Fanjily, what a Life they must: lead; for, without his appearing to command, they can never follow the most; innocent Inclination in peace.
A Third of my Gentlemen was so delicate, he could meet with nothing upon the Road to please him: Inns were Such' horrid Places, it was impossible to bear the Inconveniences of them. At every Meal we were stunned with his swearing, and finding fault with all the Servants, and fretting, because he could meet with nothing nice enough to satisfy his Hunger; and all the way in the Coach, we were entertained with the Badness of what we had already met with, and Proposals of what we should have next, eternally contradicted by the abovemention’d. Gentleman 5 tho’ by the way he was very indifferent as to himself, what he eat or drank.
A 2 The
  XX
The Epicures Family, you may be Sure enjoy Meals quiet, and fleafant enough to help Digejiion.
The Fourth took it into his head to govern the Stage coachman; and, as that is generally a pretty hard Talk, he took care to quarrel with him at every Place we arrived at; and then fell into Pastions with us in the Coach, because we would not all do the Same thing; and insisted' ' we should give him nothing. But the Objection maker Swore, if he perfisted in such Folly, he alone would give him double as much as he used to have from the whole Coach. The governing Gentleman must be a delightful Master of a Family, undoubtedly vastly beloved, and not at all feared.
The fifth Traveller Said nothing the whole way, but yes, or no: but lest he stiould have no Share in making the noise he voluntarily hum’d a Song in a disagreeable Voice from Morning till Night, whilst every now and then the Objection maker peevishly desired him to be quiet; which
had
 X 5
had no other Effect, than to make him fing fornething the louder; as much as to Say; “If I take a Place in a, Stagecoach, and pay for it, I have a right to do what “I please in it."
You may be shre, these were all very agreeable Companions to me, who have always laid it down as a Maxim and Rule for the Conduct of my Life, to take everything as I meet with it, and make the best of whatever I cannot remedy. And there Is hardly any of the common Occurrences in Life, but what are very Supportable, .and often might be made even pleasant, if not loaded with Inconveniences, by the Folly of those, who, by fretting and fuming, provoke and inflame, a finall Scratch into a painfiil Wound. However, I thank God, 1 am in y^ry good Health, and rfd of my troublesome Company, (for, by being confined to them So long, they grew very much So,) and at liberty to leave what is disagreeable to me whenever I please.
I Dined three Days ago with minu fius, and three other Centlemen : He is a A 3 Angle
  XX
single Man; So we had no Ladies with us 5 and the Conversation turned mostly on Learning. After we had run through a Criticism on the Surface of all the best Authors amongst the Clastics, it was natural for Shakespeare not to escape coming under our Observation. The Play that was chiefly talked on, was King Lear. You know I am So great an Admirer of that Play, I cannot help being pleased whenever it is mentioned; as I think it is impossible ever to read or confider of it, without finding new Beauties unobserved before. I hoped to hear Something new or^j^ that Head, therefore hearkened at first with the strictest Attention; but I Soon perceived the Characters, the Moral, the nice Touches of the Passions, were not the Points to be considered;; in their stead, the’finding out the Meaning of Some obsolete Words, and obscure Expressions made use of by Ed -- gar, when he was personating a Madman, and by the Fool, when he was rattling on, to divert his poor distressed Master, Seemed to be the only thing worthy Attention. ML nutius has a very good Library in the next Room to that in #hich we Sat, and in a
quarter
 X 7
quarter of an Hour all the Several Editions of Shakespeare, and all the old Dictionaries that could be thought on, overspread the Table. Each Man took one, and was very busy in looking over it. But now J Soon found, that the finding out the Meaning, was not the Design neither; but the Point chiefly aimed at by every Person, was to prove his own Conjectures right; and, as soon as any one mentioned a Hint, that he thought he had discovered the author’s Meaning, all the rest, without considering of it. Set themselves immediately to prove ® him in the vtong with so eager an Emulation, that they would hardly give one another Leave to speak.
When I was convinced this was tlijc Case, I left them, alternatively disputing and poring over their Books; and yet I will answer for it, if they sat all Night, they were never the nearer concurring in their Opinions. I could not forbear Smiling, to see them so long neglect what was really valuable, to employ themfeives with such Earnestnest about a Trifle; not that I have any Fault to find with this Branch A 4 of
  XX
of Criticism; for the busy, restless Mind of Man is well employed, when it is innocently amused: But I should be sorry to see the Farmer, altho’ Straw and Stubble may be useful properly applied, take a fancy that he could make them into Bread, whilst: he litter’d the Stable, and fed his Hogs with Wheat and Oats.
True Wisdom consists in making the right Use of everything, even what is most trifling, but always so as to keep the ^ Power of distinguishing what is estimable' in itfels, from that which at best can only be said not to be hurtful. But the Reflection on this, has since become a melancholy Consideration to me by observing that the eagerness for this Sort of Criticism in those Gentlemen, really arises from a Motive which Spoils their Characters, hardens their Hearts, and makes them Secret Enemies to each other: for, although' a Delight in the Same Subject of Conversation brin them osten together, yet they rather meet like Prize fighters, in hopes of gaining a Victory, than like Friends to instruct and please each other; and, like
pri^e
 X 9
Prize fighters, they shake Hands at meeting, though' each knows in his Heart, he comes there to flash and cut his Antagonist: without Mercy, deep enough to draw the Blood, only to show his own Strength and Skill. In all their Arguments, the great Fear of granting too much, left what followed should make against: their own favourite Conjectures, and the Expressions they made use of, Such as, I am jure that is unanswerable; Now I have gained that Point, c. were strong Proofs, what Point they proposed to gain, namely, the Honour of having first found out what, in their Opinions, appeared of too great consequence, to yield the Glory of it to any but themselves.
Another Art too I found they made, use of, was this, that when they could not presently recollect anything to the purpose, shey raised their Voices to such a pitch in talking from the Purpose, as visibly showed a resolution, that no one else should be heard. And, whenever one of these Gentlemen are catched Separate
from
lo L E T T E R XX
from the rest, the fly Innuendos, and depreciating Expressions they think proper, from their great Friendjhips, and Love to their Companions, to afford one another, are plain Proofs how much Affection or Taste, and how little Vanity is concerned in the Choice of their Company. And I was told last Night by a Gentleman, who has had a long Acquaintance with them all, that he has known them do a hundred fly underhand Tricks, to hurt one another, notwithstanding they stem so well pleased to be together; and, whilst one of them is in Company, the Conversation never ceases on the Failings of the rest, from the great Sorrow and Compassion he has for thern. Unfortunate for him, poor Man! that his Mind could choose to dwell So long on a Subject:, that So visibly makes him uneasy.
But, to prevent my falling into the same Error myself, I will dwell no longer on this disagreeable Subject; for, I am very certain, what I have Said, joined with your own Experience of the World, will
give
L E T T E R XX 11
give you as full an Idea of these Gentlemens Characters and Turn of Mind, as if I was to write a Qmre of Paper about them.
I am, c.
LYSIMACHUS.
VI

• ( 12)
' XI
Cratander to Lysimachus at Cambridge.
SIR, [From London.
I AM very sorryyou met with Such dull Company in your Journey; but as you was out of their reach when I had the pleasure of your Letter, I could not help bein entertained with your Account pf their various Characters; because my Mind immediately ran over So many Scenes of my Life, where the whole Company have been displeased, for no other Reason but a noble and wise resolution of being so. Your Account of the Critics is So justa Picture of many Conversations, and So lively a Representation of the Motives to numberless ill natured Actions we are at first startled
at,
L E T T E R XXI 13
at, and puzzled to find out any Motive at all for; that it forced me to place before my Eyes several of my Acquaintance whom. I should be very glad not to See in that light. But there are many Scenes in the common Intercourse with Men, that in themselves would appear ridiculous, and be the Subject: of Laughter, if Experience did not prove them such strong and indelible Marks of Mens Characters, as makes the Reflection painful. I will now give you an Example of what I say.
I Spent the Evening before last at Rufus's, where was also Firithous, Empedocles, and Tiberius. When I came in, they were all in Such an uproar of laughing, that it was Some time before I could find out the cause of their Mirth, (and I believe was I to give you a hundred Years to guess the Joke, you would still be ignorant of it.) But at last Rufus told me, as well as he could speak in the Intervals of his Fits of Laughter, that Caius, a particular Friend of theirs, was utterly ruined by his own Fault; for that he had taken it into his head to fall in love with prifcula,
who
1  XXI
who had first undone, and then jilted him: ** Now, continued he, I loved the Man very well; he has often made me merry“ “I should have pitied him, if any unforeseen Accident had befallen him; but “it is So much his own Folly to be So de ceived, that I cannot help being diverted ** with it. I warrant he thought the Lady liked him; yes, no doubt, she was in
love with him. here he stopped, for
this mighty Jest renewed the Mirth, and the Roar continued, till I really grew quite peevish, and could not forbear Saying, I suppose, Gentlemen, if you had any Friend so ill of the Smallpox, that his Recovery was despaired of, and if you could find that he had got the difease, by going out when he might have stayed at home, and you could disoover by that means that you might any way call it his own Fault; you would think him the Object of Mirth. They all stared at me for Some time as if I had been a Monster, for not participating in their Jollity, as they were pleased to think it. At last Empedocles, with a Shrug of his Shoulders, and a contemptuous Sneer, thought proper to answer me thus;
y And
 XI 15
And pray. Sir, are you the weeping philosopher?? you too wise to be mer“ “? Pray what are the proper Objects of Ridicule, but those Misfortunes which “Folly and Ignorance bring upon People? ‘‘ I don't know what one has to do in this “World, but to divert one's Self at others “Expense. For it is their own Fault: “Why do they give us that Advantage ** over them ^ I affure you, I would not lose the Capacity or Opportunity of be“ “merry, and enjoying the Company of “my Friends, for all your fancied Wisdom“ “cynical philosophy."
All this Wit, added to the whimsical Gestures of the Speaker, caused another loud Roar; and then Pirithous took me to talk as follows: “Now, Friend, says. ” he, I will tell you a Story, which if ‘‘ you don’t think ridiculous, I will give y you up to your own four Disposition, and utterly despair of curing you. A “Friend of mine the other day was ar ‘‘ rested, and carried to Prison: : what do you think was the Cause of it? Nei “there Extravagance nor Misfortunes; but 3 ‘‘ he
i  XXL
“he was so great a Fool, that he could “never enjoy anything, unless his Friends “shared it with him; and So strenuously“ “Served one at one time, and another “at another, that at last he could Support “it no longer 5 and has now no hopes of “Relief. He Sent to me to have been “Bail for him; but I knew better things. “No, no, thought I, who would be Fool then f I have often advised him not to “go on so; but the silly Wretch would not hearken to mei And now I suppose “you would have me cry, because he “finds to his own Cofi, how much I was “in the right. But indeed I shall not; for I am pleased with it. If indeed a Banker had broke, or anything of that “kind — — Here Tiberius, in haste to vent a fine Sentence, interrupted him, and cried out, “Right, Empedocles; if after all the prudent Considerations for himself“ “Man ought to have, any Misfortunes “had attended him, and he had not been “to blame, he certainly had been the Object of Pity; Christianity then would y have obliged us to Compassion ^

 XI 17
The word Christianity uttered in this manner, by a Wretch who in the same Breath dared to plead in justification of indulging cruel Sensations, struck me with such Horror, that I left the Room with the utmost Precipitation. But as I went out, I heard echoing Laughter resound so loud, that I was convinced they were enjoying the Triumph they thought due to the Victory of having drove me from the Room, as they imagined, by the Strength of their Arguments, and the Force of their Understandings. You may be sure I did not give myself any trouble about what they thought; and I really was shocked to reflect, what must be the real Motive of all the Actors in this, to me horrid, to them entertaining Scene. I did not want any further light into their Characters; but happening this Morning to speak of this Conversation to a Gentleman with whom I breakfasted, he told me he knew them all four, and the History of their Lives very well; and he would tell me a particular Story of each of them, which he thought as strong Characteristics as could be given.
vol. II B Althoug
i  XXI
Although I thought I knew them full enough., yet Curiosity to know how their Lives tallied with their late Difeourfe, led me to accept my friend’s Offer; and he began as follows:
RUFUS lost his Mother when he “was ten years old. His Father married “again, as soon as Decency would per mit. He chose a young Lady born and “bred a Gentlewoman, altho’ she had no “Fortune to bring with her. But if it “was possible for any Behaviour to make “amends for the want of it, Delia (for that was the young Lady's Name) might ‘‘ justly be said to do so. Contrary to “most Step mothers, she endeavoured by “an unaffected Love for her hushand’s Son, to lose that Distinction; and by all “the Marks of a parental Fondness, tried “to make Rufus forget she was not his “Mother by Nature. But as her Husband was very covetous ih his Disposition, and / as his Love for her was only an ungo“ “Passion for her Person, soon“ “weary of that, he looked on her “as having cost him greatly too dear; and
“continually
 XI 19
“continually calculated, how much Mo“ “he was out of pocket through her “Means, by considering the Fortune his “Estate might have demanded with ano “there Woman. Rufus, who has all the little low Cunning that generally waits “on Folly, made use of every mean Arti“ “to aggravate his father’s Dislike to “his Wife; and the Life the poor Woman “led" between them, was too miserable to “admit of a Description. When Rufus “was one and twenty, his Father died:
“he had taken care to settle but half “enough to keep his Wife, before he was “married, that Ihe might be debarred from “any Claim afterwards. This he did, on“ “to try if by her Behaviour stie would • ‘‘ deserve more; which She certainly did “not: for She was guilty of that great Offence of not being able to prevent his “being tired of her Person, and to en“ “her Crime, behaved in such a “manner, that he could not postibly throw “the fault on her. He therefore left her • “nothing more than he had at first fettled;
“and the moment he was dead, Rufus barbarously turned this Mother (for so B 2 “she
2  XXI
“she was in all her Actions towards him) “and two little Girls she had by his Fa“ “out of his House, to wander and provide for themselves as they could. “Delia did not long survive this Treat“ “and he has since allowed her two “Daughters jufi; enough to say he keeps “them, and to prevent their Application “to any other Person from having anyef “Sect. And all the Justification he can “bring for this Behaviour is, that he has “a right to do as he pleases with his own “Property, But here I will leave him, “as I think his Character must be*so very “clear to you as to want no further Ex“ “
•
“TIB E R IUS contracted what is “called a Friendjltip at School with a young Gentleman called Phocion; they were tlren Equals: but ever since they came ‘‘ into the world, Tiberius has been in the postefiion of a very good Estate, and “Phocion has been always in great distress.
However, Tiberius was so generous as to “lend him a small Sum upon a Scheme, which had it Succeeded, must certainly
y have
 XI 21
“have made his Fortune, with a Promise“ “its being repaid with more Interest: ‘‘ than a common Usurer would have de“ “The Scheme, contrary to a “very high degree of Probability, failed; “Phocion was undone, and Tiberius disappointed;; would not bear the Dif “appointment, without some where wreak“ “his Revenge. The unfortunate “Phocion then must be the Object of it; “all Reasons were vain, a total Incapacity “of paying the Money was not admitted “as an Inducement to Mercy. Tiberius “demanded but his own., and pnaw in “justice could not deny complying with “His Demand, whether it was in his “power or no. Phocion, irritated with “repated Insults, and more galled with “Tiberius cruel Behaviour than his own “unhappy Circumstances, could not help ‘‘ at last representing to him, how unrea “fonable it was thus to upbraid him with ‘‘ the not performing Impossibilities. This “was an unpardonable Fault, and poor “Phocion like the Lamb in the Fable was“ “the power of a Wolf, whose own in clination and Resolution to devour him, B 3 “was
2  XXI
“was not to be altered or Softened by any “thing he could Say or do. The result was; Tiberius's prosecuting all the Ri“ “of the Law, and Phocion's being “unmercifully thrown into Prison. A melancholy Consideration!! we re“ “that the Prosecutor, even in In ‘‘ tereji, is So far from being the better for it, that he is obliged to Support, or ra“ “to prolong the Life of his imaginary ‘‘ Adversary in that Misery he has barbarously and willingly thrown him into.
“P IR IT HO US has a large Estate j “insomuch that in one Parish where he is “Lord of the Manor he has 1500 /. a
“Year. Mr. -- -- --, the Parson of the
“Parish and he always agreed extremely. He demanded nothing unreasonable, was
“a kind Patron; and Mr. -- -- -, full
“of Gratitude for his Goodness, loved and esteemed him. About five Years ago “Pirithous married a Lady, whose whole “Soul was filled with Vanity, ^frid who never was sensible of any other Pleasure“ “that of trampling her Inferiors under
“her Feet. Mr. -- -- -- Soon found that
“the
 XL 23 ¦
“the Change of the old Customs of the “House made it so disagreeable to him,
“that he absented himself more and more,
“till at last he attended very seldom“ “the Lady's Train. She imme “diately, without any Reflection that her “good Behaviour caused this Alteration,
‘‘ wondered what the Creature meant;
“sure he was guilty of the highest Ingra “titude to Pirithous, for which she could “not forgive him, altho’. She was of the most forgiving Temper alive.
“This was her Pretence for railing “against him; but in her heart her chief “Anger was, his once beginning Prayers,
“before stie thought proper to parade up “the Church, when he thought it would “be Mockery and Indecency, to make a “whole Congregation, who were solemnly met to attend Divine Service, wait longer “for the insolent Lady of the ’squire of “the Paristi. This She construed to be “Pride, (a Word constantly retorted on “all who fail to pay the proper Ado ‘‘ ration to those who are their own ima“ “Deities.) In short, she so much B 4 y incensed
2  XXI
‘‘ incensed her Husband, who before only wanted a Temptation to be wicked, that “he lets his whole Estate of 1500 /. a Year lie fallow and uncultivated, only that he “may not pay Tithes. Since he has been guilty of this Cruelty, he takes all op portunities of arguing in the Defence of “Cruelty. The Clergyman bears a very “good Character, has a large Family, “which, with himself, are almost starved ‘‘ by this inhuman Treatment of his for mer Patron. And yet what he owed “to Pirithous for being his former Patron, has so much raised his Gratitude, that “he suffers all with a true Christian meekness;; it was by very great accident ‘‘ I happened to hear this Story, which I “should be glad to forget. But it made “so deep an Impression, that my Me“ “retains it too faithfully; as it does ‘‘ also what I am now going to tell you of Empedocles. He has lived most part of “his time in the Country; and there he once took it into his head to breed up a “Sawn in so tender and familiar a man“ “that he fed it from his Table with “his own Hand. He delighted to make
tc
 XI 2 5
“it his play thing, whiift the poor artless“ “Fawn took his Behaviour for real Fondness, and gratefully returned it V in kind. When this Creature became a “fullgrown Hind, She still continued as ‘‘ tame as ever, waited on her master’s “Will, attended his Call, and obeyed his “Commands, and daily learned some new “Method of playing little harmless Tricks “to divert and entertain him. Poor “Wretch! that Food which Nature craved, “became doubly sweet, and was heightened “into the greatest Pleasure by the kind nefs of the Hand that gave it. And she“ “at last so fond of her Master, that “she refused Nourishment from any other “Hand than his. But not being totally “exempt from the Frailties of her kind, the “Servants accused her of having gnawed “some old coarse Linen, and being other“ “troublesome in some trifling things “without doors, she was proved guilty; and “Empedocles, her kind Majler, her Friend, “her merciful Judge, without one Fear, or “one fond Struggle to alleviate the Sentence, “pronounced her Punishment to be Death; “and, lest any Spark of Humanity should
appear,
26 L E T TER XXL
appear, did not choose a Gun or Pistol “at once to end her, but chose to send to a neighbouring 'Squire the welcome “News, that, if he would appoint the “Day, he would give him the Diversion“ “hind hunting. Accordingly the Day “was fixed, and this favourite Hind, ac“ “to meet none but Friends, and “unused to be pursued by merciless Ene“ “was turned out before the Dogs;
however, Spurred on by Fear, she held “a pretty long Chase, and, when drove “to the last Extremity, panting for Breathj “and already almost half-dead, she took “Shelter in a Barn behind some Corn, in “Such a manner, that the Dogs could not “easily get in upon her; but the sportf men, not willing to lose their Diversion“ “every Method they could think of “to cajole her out, but all their Endea “yours proved vain, till Empedocles (for fear “Cruelty was not Sufficient, unless he “joined it to Treachery) ordered the Dogs ‘‘ to be called off at a distance, whilst in the same familiar Names he had former“ “given her, and with the same friendly Voice with which he used to call her
“to
 XI 27
‘‘ to take her Food, or to attend and play “before him ih the Fields, allured the “poor decived Hind from the Place of Safety she had chose; then craftily stroke“ “her Head, whilst she in gratitude “for the Refuge her trembling Limbs “wanted, and she now thought she had “found, licked his Hand, and, half-dead “with Fear and Fatigue, laid herself down “at his Feet; at the same time looking *¦ at him So piteously, as if she would say, that to him only could she vent her “Griefs, or make her Complaints. This, “one would imagine, must have melted the hardest Heart; but Empedocles lost “to all Sense of Humanity, in the very “moment the poor Creature was express“ “as well as she could, her Confi “dence in him, with both her Gratitude “and Fondness, with Hands scarce ceasing“ “stroking her, took her up, and “turned her out again before the Dogs, “more merciful by far, because their En“ “was open and professed. She could “not stand the Chase much longer, and “ran so weakly after this, that one “could be almost tempted to think, she
y thought
2  XXL
*' thought her Life not worth preserving“ “she was thus given up a Sacri ‘‘ fice by her only Friend, who, instead “of reflecting on what he had done, in“ “his Neighbours to partake with “him in a Feast, barbarous as that of “Medea's, where the principal Joke was “the manner, by which he had ensnared“ “poor innocent Creature.”
Here my Friend ceased, and we sat a quarter of an Hour staring at each other, with Tears swelling into our Eyes, and could utter no other Words but cruel Em -- pedocles! Savage barbarous Empedocles!
I am, c.
CRATANDER.
( 29)
 XII
So p HRONIA to Celia at London.
Dear Celia, [From the Country.
YO U will See by this, I have not forgot our reciprocal promise of a Correspondence when we parted; and, as our Separation is my only Punishment in this Retreat from noise and Hurry, it is indeed very improbable, I should neglect any Opportunity of con ver fing with you.
The present Calm of my Mind, unruffled by Passions, undisturbed by any Perturbation, daily strengthens those Sentiments you always so vehemently oppose; namely, how much more eligible it is, to be contented with Ease, and moderate a mufements, than to be continually grasping
at
3  XXII
at Pleasures so refined, that they are at most:, but barely to be come at; and are generally So greatly overbalanced by the Torments that accompany them.
Books of philosophy are now my Delight; and I can sit Hours under the Shade of a great Tree, converstng with those Sages of Antiquity, who, by the Help of a Transtator, are intelligible to an English Reader. By their Assistance, 1 can conquer all my Passions; and you cannot imagine the pleasure I receive from finding their Sentiments correspond So exactly with my own.
I Am Sometimes led to flatter myself, that (young as I am) were they alive, and present, they would not disdain to converse with me. This Thought encourages me to proceed in my philosophy; and J find an Indulgence in it, that fully compensates the Pains I take to Subdue my Passions. I have my Companions too among the modern Ethical Writers; and when I read in Rochefocault, that it is difficult to 3 conquer
 XII 31
conquer our Pastions, but impossible to satisfy them 5 I am so vastly pleased with the Thought, that I have So wisely preferred a Study, in which I can find So much to please me, to the foolish Attempt of attaining Impossibilities, that I sit for Some time pleased with the delightful Meditation, how much I am in the right.
IN my pursuits, I look on myself as a Heroine that have combated Giants, and lain them all dead at my Feet; for Peace and Joy fill my Mind, and no tumultuous Passion invades my Breast. But, when I have enjoy’d my own Thoughts, and the philosophy of others, till my Imagination cools, and will dwell no longer on one Subject, there is another that constantly starts up, and confirms me in the Resolution of not pursuing Pleasure;; an Observation I have always made, that those People, who are most greedy after it, fail most in the attaining it j for one may say of Pleasure, what a very ingenious Author says of Fame:
Same
3  XXII
Same is a Bubble, the refered enjoy :
Who Jirive to grasp it, as they touch de jiroy.
For whenever I have met with anything to please me, it has been without my Seeking; and, when my Mind has taken a philosophical Turn, and I have in my Thoughts given up the World, and all its Enjoyments.
Thus I can beguile many Hours, independent from the rest of Mankind; and when I am tired with my own Contemplations, walk home Satisfied with my Sentiments, and yet convinced, that, if anything above this state of Ease is reserved for me, it will come, when it will come, without my being at any trouble or 'pains to find it. But you and I have had So many Arguments on this head, that I think it almost time to leave it.
Your old Acquaintance Che is married to Filius, and my near Neighbour in this Country; you know she used to be always of your Opinion; and her great
Love
 XII 33
Love of Pleasure is ended in the usual unfortunate Manner. Her Husband has no Characteristic, and yet there are very few Characters, which may not be said at different times to belong to him. As the ca meleon assumes the Colour of every Object to which he approaches nighest, so eiuus varies his Sentiments, and changes his Disposition by every new Acquaintance he meets with. When he courted his
greatest Crony was. u passionate Lover : she had then no re^'ton to imagine, but he was of that Clafii. returned his apparent Loye with a trje Affection, and put herself into his po.vver for Life. His first Friend, after h was married, was of a four Severe mo vofe Disposition: : immediately turned from the tender Lover, into the imperious Husband;; poor Cloe must Suffer all the Torments of such a dreadful Change. Then on a Sudden, by only Spending two Days with Strephon, whose Fondness for his Wife, is always brought as an Example by •all the Ladies in the Neighbourhood, Filius became so very submissive, so totally complying with every Humour of Cloe's, that, as she would willingly do whatever would vol. II C ’pleafe
3+  xll.
please him best:, she lived in a continual Fright, lest; she stiould act contrary to his Inclinations; and yet, from his over corn plaifance, found it was impossible to know what was most agreeable to him. In Short, in the little time I have known him, he has astumed such a Multitude of Characters, as in the Repetition would appear almost incredible. He is good or bad, estimable and contemptible, silly and sensible, all by turns, just as Accident throws those various Characters in his way; but the most unfortunate Whim that ever enter’d into his Head, is that, by which he at present regulates himself: He is' become intimate with Petruchio, whose Wife is so great a Shrew, that stie goes by no other Name, than that of my Lady love rule, Petruchio has Understanding enough not to give way to all her Rages and Passions; and therefore often affects to be in an equal, or greater Rage, in order to conquer her in her own way. Then home comes Filius, storms, fumes and frets at his Wife, and puts himself in a Passion almost frightful to behold, for just nothing at all; he is fefolved to act the Tamer of the Shrew,
and
 XII 35
and only forgets, that it is necessary, in Order to top the Part, to have a Shrew to tame j for that Chhe is one of the meekest and most Submissive temper’d Women in the World, is a Circumstance that never once enters into his Thoughts. The Lamb in the Fable could not plead for his Life more fruitlessly to the Wolf, than does the innocent Chloe, to abate the Rage of her incensed Husband; incensed only, becalife it necessary to keep up his own present assumed Character, without any Provocation from the imaginary Shrew. She has turned this Fable into verse; and, as I think it is prettily done, I Send it for your Perusal.
A FABLE from ph^^prhs.
Q HAL L kwlefs Force meek Virtue still oppress I
And injured Innocence find no Re dr efs f Alas! how easy does the cruel Mind,
A specious Reason for Injufiice find?
Oh, Shun the Wolf's base Reasoning, and his Wrong,
If Force remains in Fable or in Song.
C 2 In
3  xxli.
In Mayh fair fragratit Month, a tender Lamb
Hapless had fray'd far from her Fold and Dam;
Replete with Innocence, devoid of Fear,
By Thirst oppressed, she sought the Water clear d
The Wolf, rapacious Ranger of the Wood, With Heat inflamed, came also to the Flood. But, ah! poor Lamb, no more those cryjial Waves,
And bubbling fountains, but thy Blood he craves :
And thus he speaks .* Traitor, doji thou dare
To fully with thy Mouth these Waters clear f So far you Jiand above, the Lamb replied. That 'tis from you to me these Waters glide: How then can I offend? That boots thee not. Says the base Wolf, think'fi thou I have forgot Thy Insolence six Months ago, when thou Did'jl Jlain this Fountain with thy Breath, as now?
Cried the poor trembling Lamb, How weak Defence,
Before so hard a fudge, is Innocence?
'Tis
 XII 37 Tis not three Months jince jirji I saw the Sun.
'Twas by thy Father then the Deed was donei Reply d the Wolf .* nor adds, but swiftly flies To seize his trembling Prey, who guiltless dies.
CHLOE gave me this herself; but, I believe, does not suspect, that I know the reason, why this particular Fable dwells so strongly on her Mind; for she suffers as much from the Shape her Husband thinks proper to put on, as the poor Lamb did from the wolf’s rapacious Nature.
I am, c.
SOPHRONIA.
C 3
(38)
 XIII
Celia to Sophronia in th Country,
Dear Sophronia, [From Londcu..
OUR not changing your Sentiments,
I by retiring into the Country, you may be very sure, does not greatly amaze me; for a young Woman, vt^ho was daily courted and admired by a Variety of a greeable Objects, and yet was obstinately bent, in the midst of them, to preserve the Reflection, that an indolent ease was her only Resource from Pains and Torment, must certainly preserve the Same way of thinking in Solitude, where there is no Temptation to alter it: but take care you do not deceive yourself; for k appears to me, that your dwelling so often and So strongly on the Necessity of conquering
your
 XIII 39
your Passions, is some Small Indication of the. great Difficulty you find in doing So.
Perhaps, whilst you sit and enjoy the Thought of your being worthy to converse with the Sages of Antiquity, all your Passions may not be So entirely lulled to sleep as you imagine. Remember, my dear Sophronia, that Pride has a Place, if not the very first Place, amongst those Giants you seem to fancy, you have so like a Heroine combated and overcome.
But when you have triumphed in your Conquests, long enough to be tired with your own dazzling Splendour, and have strengthened your laudable Resolutions of avoiding and Shunning Pleasure, by the Reflection, that it is generally the Portion of those who least pursue it; then indeed I must confess, that you are perfectly contented with your great, free, and wife philosophical Sentiments. Yes; undoubtedly you despise the End, whilst you are pleased to employ the Means you think most likely to attain that End. This may pafs on others; but I, that have known C 4 you
4  XXIII
you from your Infancy, cannot be thus imposed on. For I fancy, if a Man was to say, that he had left following a Woman, because he found her dispofition was Such, that the more he pursued her, the more she fled from him, you would not say that was any Sign of his Indifference to her; but no Fallacy gains our Belief so easily, as those which are supported by our inclining to believe that they are true.
I Thank you fcr the Fable you Sent me, and think it too natural. Poor chlod.s. Fate really concerns me; but I cannot, from her Misfortunes, conclude all happiness to be quite unattainable. If from Instances of that kind we are to draw such conclu fions, in time we may bring ourselves to be as insipid as Stocks or Stones, and as unanimated as that very Tree, you so much delight to shade yourself under. There is no Absurdity we may not by this means give into. We may wish to be born dull, decrepit, old and ugly, because Spirit, Vivacity, Youth and Beauty have brought with them long Trains of Ills, which
might
 XIII 41
might be owing to those very Advantages of Nature.
. A F T E R all I can say, if you are unalterably fixed to your Choice, and resolve to wish (or at least; to fancy you wish) for no higher Bliss than mere Ease, all Arguments will prove vain, and you must continue to act the Part of a Philosopher.
But as to my own part, I am convinced I could never make this Scheme agree with my volatile whimsical Temper. My Desires are not so moderate as to be so Satisfied; and I must aim at Pleasure, tho’ it Serves but to quicken the Sense of Pain. — Well! let my Life be a sickle apru d2j; for though it be attended with Wind or Hail, there will be some gay Intervals of blue Heavens and bright Sunshine; and I should prefer it with all its Changes to the comfortable Constancy of a close, warm, uneasy, low’ring Sky, where one is free indeed from the Terrors of a Storm, but then the Senses are all stupified by a Fog. In short, there is nothing I so much dread as ' being always asteep j and yet to repeat Doses
of
4  XXIII
of opium, and steep away our Time, is not more absurd than to Spend our Lives iman Endeavour to keep our Minds but half awake; and from a cowardly Fear pf ever meeting with an uneasy sensation, to lull away the very Capacity of enjoying any one that is pleasing.
Last Night I Spent an Evening So agreeably to my Humour, that it dwells yet upon my Imagination; and by the help of Reflection, I in a manner make it still present to me.
My Brother drove me into the Country in a chaise. The Beauties of the Evening, and the various prospects we beheld, are not to be described. We sat in our Vehicle on Wimbleton common, where we could at one View behold the largest and most beautiful Rainbow I ever saw, all the various Colours in Nature were there displayed. The whole City of London gilded by the Setting Sun, and the Country all around us intermixed with Hills and Valleys, Wood and Water, was placed before our Eyes. You know my brother’s Imagination is So
lively.
 XIII 43
lively, that Such a Scene could not be lost upon him; and his Remarks and Taste inde me doubly enjoy it.
1n coming home, we accidentally went a Small matter out of the Road, to continue the prospect as long as possible; by which means a little Hillock on one fide of the chaise, which my Charioteer did not perceive, had like to have overturned us. I was frighted for the present Moment; but we came off Safe, and the Fright was soon over.
This Accident brought you to my Remembrance; and I could not help thinking how much you and I stiould differ in our Reflections on such an Occasion. I delighted myself with comparing that trifling Inconvenience with the great pleasure I had in being with a Person whose Taste was the foie Cause of it; and rejoiced in the Thought, that I had not been Saved from that small Fright, by being teased with the Dullness of a Blockhead, who in the midst of that charming Scene would have been incapable of thinking of anything but the
Roads
.4  XXIII
Roads and the Wheels of the chaise: whereas had it been your case, you would have gone home, reflecting that there was no pleasure to be had in this World, forgot all you had enjoyed, and concluded that you had better have stayed at home in Safety, Indolence, and ease. I am, dear Sophronia,
Tours, cc
E L I A,
( 45)
 XIV
Pharamond to Cleomenes at oxsord.
SIR, [From London.
The many Hours you and I have spent in Arguments on the Subject of Vanity, bring you to my Remembrance wherever I go. I believe it is to indulge my own Pride, that I am so willing to recollect our Discourses on that Head; as I fancy I find Proofs in every Company, how much I was in the right, when I asserted, that the Motive to most Conversations, was nothing more than a Desire of justifying our own Pafiions, exulting in our Situations, or Showing our own Parts. The strong Inclination I have to convince you of my Penetration, gives you the trouble
of
4  XXI
of this Epistle. However, I will be generou: enough to tell you, that if you cannot bea; finding yourself in the wrong, I would no have you read it; because I think yoi cannot stand out against the Instances i Shall here give you, and will be forced t( confess, that Vanity has a greater share h the human Mind, than you would ever ye allow me.
I Spent the Evening yesterday at 5 Tavern with four young Gentlemen, ead of very different Characters, and all Mei of Wit and Parts. One is an Epicure, an other a Philosopher, a third an ambition Man, and the fourth actuated chiefly b] Avarice.
For some time the Conversation wa lively and agreeable; but after the Clod had struck twelve, and the Bottle began t( throw them a little off their Guard, W( fell into a Difeourfe on Human Nature, and the Pastions of Mankind. No Soon
was this Subject introduced, than th( Quixotifm of each Man began to exert itself. The good sense which they couk
ff
 XIV 47
Utter on every other Topic, fled before the very Thoughts of their favourite pas fion; and instead of endeavouring to examine and distinguish right from wrong, the only Aim of each Person was to prove, that whatever is the Bent of his own Nature, is the wifest and best Pursuit /
Epicure immediately began to wish he had more Senses than Man is endued with, and more Objects than the World produces to gratify them. difcon tented with his own Situation, he only modestly wished to rob each Creature of its chief Perfection; the hawk’s Sight, the hound’s Smell, and the spider’s Subtle Feeling were all the Objects of his Envy : and then, when he had in his own Opinion a long time eloquently displayed the Wisdom of pursuing Pleasure, he always concluded with a contemptuous Sneer at the rest of Mankind for the Folly of their various pursuits.
The Philosopher could very well answer the Epicure, that his Over greedinefs for Pleasures was the way to lose all Enjoyments J and that by reaching so far be •3 yond
4  XXIV
yond the Mark, he lost: even what was to be attained. But when this Philosopher came to humour his own Fancy, and to prove that Wisdom alone is Happiness, he argued himself into a Stock or Stone, and talked in such high Flights of the Contempt of Pleasure, as must indeed render ‘a Man utterly incapable of enjoying any.
The ambitious Man had an equal Contempt for them both, and made a long Harangue on the great Advantage of Power. He never once thought on any of the Anxieties that attend the getting or maintaining it, but turned every Argument on the most pleasing Side, and endeavoured with all his Art to prove, that in that alone true Happiness was to be found. But instead of calling the Desire of Power Ambition, he gave it the Names of Spirit and Greatness of Mind.
The avaritious Man said everything he could think of, to prove that Money alone can give us Happiness; but then he took great care to let us know, that he did not think it valuable for its own sake, but
for
 XIV 49
for the Effects it produces; such as Respect, Power, expressing a Detestation for the Sordid miser who hoards up Gold with no farther View; and applauding the Man who by Prudence and Economy grows rich, and enables himself to purchase what he pleases.
I Was at first very well entertained; for as all these Gentlemen have good Understandings, every one Said as much as the Subject would bear. But when their Vanity began to be piqued by Contradiction, and they were warmed with a Resolution of maintaining what they had once asserted, they really talked such Nonsense, as would have given me an Opinion they were all Fools, had I never seen them before. As I was at last the only Hearer in the Company, they all appealed to me, and at the same time gave me no Opportunity of answering them. It was near two a clock before they were weary of talking.
I Went to bed very much tired; but this Morning could not help reflecting on the last night’s Conversation. It appeared
vol. IL D odd
^5°  xrv.
odd to me, how Men of Parts could brin themselves to say so many silly things, a every one of these Gentlemen had utterec on the several Subjects which each had engaged himself to defend. And from thi Conversation, I thought I found the reasoi why Men of great Wit and Parts are ge nerally Said to fail in point of Judgement for there is no Faculty of the Mind or Bo dy, but by being constantly unemployec may lose its Force and Vigour. Thus whei Inclination so far takes up the whole Man as to Set him at his wits end to find Rea ^ Sons for his Conduct, he immediately em ploys his whole Imagination, and begs th Favour of his Judgement not to be so trou blefome as to interrupt him in his favourit Scheme, or to be any bar to his pleasures For he uses everything that dares but hin a disagreeable Truth to him, as his greater Enemy; and nothing but Neglect and Scon can be the Reward of such audacious In joknce. Thus the admirable Don ^ixot could separate every Idea with the greater Exactness, join them with the greater Nicety, and talk judiciousty on every Sub ject, till the Profession of Knight errantr 3 becam
 XIV 51
became unluckily the Question; and then Sheep were Armies, Windmills Giants, a barber’s Basin Mambrim's Helmet, nay a Country Wench winnowing of Wheat was Suddenly transformed into a great princess stringing of Pearl; with many other whim fies of a fantastic distempered Brain. His strong Fancy changed everything he Saw into what he destred to see. Even Sancho Panca, a poor Country Fellow, who had not read Books of Chivalry, and whose Imagination fell far short of the jdc«’s Warmth; although he could See an Inn was no Castle, Sheep no Armies, Windmills no Giants, yet no Sooner was mention made of she Government of that Istand lie was to be rewarded with for all his Fatigues, shan she tossing in the Blanket with every other disgrace and Pain he had Suffered, vanished from his Thoughts: Honour and Power filled his Mind, and he grew full as mad as his Master.
Now when the strong Bent of a Man's Nature leads him to she indulging one Passion only, on every other Subject he may be a Man of sense; but when a D 2 man’s
5  XXIV
man’s Pursuits are various, and yet Self is what he confiders alone, if he could but find out what would gratify Self most; then, like Mr. Dryderf^ Achitophel,
In the pace of one revolving Moon, He's Fiddler, Player, Statesman, and Buffoon.
And I doubt not but a Man of Parts would prove, or endeavour to prove, a Buffoon to be the highest Character in Nature, if it was what he chose to be himself. But to tyre you no longer with my Observations, I went this Morning to vistt all these Gentlemen Separately; and to make good what I began with, namely, that Vanity is the Support of most Conversations, I must tell you I found every one of my Gentlemen uneasy, for fear his Antagonists Should not think he had got the better. Each boasted his Victory, and found entire Ease in nothing but a fancied Contempt for all who were so blind as not to be convinced by his powerful Arguments.
This
L E T T E R XXIV 53
This Afternoon I fell into company with a Set of Ladies, who were extreme fond of Poetry. One of them had been just: reading The Rape of the Lock. They all professed their Admiration of that, and the rest of that gentleman’s Poems; and each repeated the Lines that had sunk deepest: in her own Memory. I think I can remember everything that was said, and will send it you just as it was spoke in the first Personas I think that will give you a stronger Idea of the Conversation.
BELINDA, (a Beauty of Sixteen, who had been married a Week.) What a strong Idea that Line gives?
‘‘ There sat ilunature like an aitcient “Maid.
CON STANT I A, {2 Woman of Forty, who had ten Years before refused many Offers.) In my opinion, two of the prettiest Lines that Author ever wrote were these :
D 3 ^ yahi
5+  XIV
Ah! quit not th ffet Innocence of Life For the dull Glories of d virtuous Wifi.
C A MIL LA, (who never lost a Lover with her own consent in her Life,) thesij Lines are fine;
The graver Prude finks downward to a Gnom^,
In search of Mifchieffill on Earth roam.
The answer to this was immediately made by Prudentia, who was never known to have admitted a Lover, in 2. Quotation of these Lines;
“The light Coquettes in Sylphs aloft repair, ‘ ‘ and[port and flutter in the Fields of Air.
Then started C^ua, 2 young Lady whose Face it was irhpofiible to find fault with, nd with an audible Voice repeated.
If to her Share some femdle Errbrs fait, y Look at her Pace, and you'uforget them all.
She
 XIV 55
She had no Iboner ceased speaking, than Clotina, who had a great deal of invisible Merit, and whose Understanding has never been questioned, stepped forward; and fixing her Eyes on Ccelia, said“ “cannot think there is anything so much worth repeating in those Lines. For my part,
“I admire what is said in praise of a wo man’s Mind and Behaviour more; such as,
ivhat then remains, but well our Power.
“to use“
“keep good-humour still, whatper “we lose??
trust me. Dear, good-humour Kan “prevail.
When Airs, and Flights, and Screamsy ‘‘ and Scolding fail: (
“Beauties in vain their pretty Eyes may, “roll.
Charms firjke the Sight, but Merit wins “the Soul." ^
Cnelia was going to answer her, as she took this tp be pointed peculiarly at her: 'But before she had time to speak, the Vanity of each Person began to be piqued; and I D 4 could
5  XXIV
could hear nothing more distinctly, but only here and there a word. Affediation with a Jickly Mein was uttered by a florid Girl. All this was spoke with the proper Decorations, such as the insolent toss of the Head, the contemptuous Sneer, and the angry Flap pf the Fan, by which means I was thoroughly convinced they all understood one another's Meaning.
I Have Sent you this conversation, tc convince you I was in the right in all oui Arguments on Vanity,
I
*1 I am,
i V
S I R,
Tour moji Obedient, PHARAMOND
( 57)
 XV
Cleomenes to Pharamond
London.
SIR, [From Oxford.
IT H A N K you for your obliging Letter, and affure you, it has had the desired Effect: on me; for the Scenes you Sent me a Description of, and the Reflections I have since made on them, have convinced me, I was in the wrong in all our Arguments concerning human Nature; and the Shame I now feel in owning myself so, will be fully compensated, by the continual Satisfaction I shall have in knowing for the future, I am in the right. e very Company I go into, and every Observation I make, is an additional Confirmation of the Justice of your Opinion j
and
5  XXV
and I am so pleased, that Nature has given me sense enough to understand and admit Truth, when laid before me, and So fond of my new discovery, that no Child can be prouder or more delighted with showing a new play thing, than I am with displaying my late got Knowledge; insomuch that every third Word I Speak, and the Conclusion of every Sentence I utter, is Vanity, although' I take great care to appear as if I had known all this from the time I was born; because it is pleasanter to make our Companions believe we get our Knowledge from Intuition, than that we are beholden to anosher for any Instructions. Like a Man recovered to Sight after long being blind, Truth breaks upon me with refistless Day; and I think I can account for every Phsenomenon in Nature.
I Am now no longer at a loss for the reason of Chromulus's Behaviour; for chro miilus was bred up at the University with Bilbus. They contracted a strict Friendship, and, in appearance, had a very great Affection for each other. Bilbus willingly endeavoured to instruct Cbromulus in evfcry
thing
 XV 59
thing he himself had learned; but chro mulus found, that his unfortunate Head could not comprehend the Meaning of ail that his Friend was so kind to wish to teach him; and therefore, when he was tired of wasting his Time, and beating his Brains to no manner of purpose, the only Refuge he had left, was to decry all Learning, to Swear it was a Mark of Dullness, and a Want of lively Parts to be able to fix an Attention so strong, as to attain it; and, whenever Bilbus is mentioned in his Company, he shrugs up his Shoulders, and affects with a ridiculous Sneer to show an utter Contempt of him, saying, that in deed he loved Bilbus mightily when he “first went to the University, but neither he, nor any of his Companions could “make anything of him; for he was so stupid, that he did nothing but pore on Greek Books, and grew a perfect Pe“ “with a Sort of infult iiig Pity for him, ** that all good Company and merry Fellows were forced to leave ^ him off."
_ This,
6o  XV
This, amongst the People vrith whom Cbromulus conwtrfesy generally raises ahorfe laughj and, as he fixes the Idea of Pedantry to learning Greek, his Companions are Sure it is no Satire upon them : and enjoy the fancied Ridicule, till they are all ready to burst with Pleasure and Joy, that there is any Expedient found out, to make them rest Satisfied in their own Want of Capacity; and Pedant, Pedant, with the Interruption of nothing but Laughter, echoes through the Room, and Smiles or Grins of Approbation grace the Baboon Faces of those, who triumph thus in their own Nothingness; and, rather than not exult at all, find out a Pretence of exulting in their own Inferiority.
I A M now at no loss for a Reason, why Delirius runs about, complaining for every trifling Misfortune which befalls him; for all the Compafljon he meets with, is a Proof to him how much he deserves it: for, altho’ satisfying his Appetites, taking his Rest, warming himself in the Winter, and cooling himself in the Summer, make
up
 XV 6i
up the whole History of his empty Life; yet, as he has been guilty of no Murder, Theft, or Cruelty, he thinks he has Merit enough, to exempt him from the common Misfortunes of Mortals : and his Impatience under them, is really owing to his Pride, in thinking he deserves to be exempted from all the Miseries that befall his Fellow-creatures. Nay, I have known him, when he has fancied himself under some great Affliction, get a Cat to pur by him j for, from the melancholy Sound of that Creature, he feeds himself with the Fancy, that his Misfortune affects one living Animal however, besides himself, and this brings him some Consolation.
DORILAS indeed never complains: His Pride is of a superior Degree; and he has a Contempt for others Pity, as well as for their/^'lattery. He has Vanity enough to Satisfy himself without any Assistance j for, as he rests contented that he is the highest Creature in the whole World, he looks ¦ down on all Mankind can say, as below his Notice. In Misfortunes, his own Compassion for himself (which he is never without
6  XXV
out in she highest: Degree shat can be imagined) is Sufficient, and in prosperity his own Approbation of all his Actions (of which also he is very far from being niggardly) is enough to give him Content, without any foreign Help. He gratifies his Pride, by a fixed Opinion of his own Judgement, and then makes his Judgement so good-natured, as never to condemn eishei his Words or Actions. Thus, like the Spider, his own native Stock furnishes him with Sufficient Matter for his Gratification, and he fortifies himself wish the Cobweb net wove by his own Inclination.
But, lest; you should be tired of hii Character, I will Say no more of him, bu proceed to relate a conversation I had th( other day with four old Gentlemen, th( youngest: being Threeshore. They fount fault with everything they met with; oni would not allow the Women to be a handsome as formerly: The Second coul( not bear the Dresses at present in fashion infisting upon it, that they are not half S grand, nor do they give that i^ir of Dig nity, as those that were wore when the;
wer
 XV 63 were young Men. The Third found fault with all our Actors and Actreffes, and, with a piteous Shaike of his Head, seemed to regret the Loss of what he had seen at Thirty, when everything was so much more in perfection, than in these degenerate Days. The Fourth could not bear what the young People of these Times call politeness and good breeding. In his Youth there was some Civility, some good manners; but now indeed, under the pretence of being easy, People throw off all Ceremony and Decency together.
I L E T them run on at this rate for Some time, without giving them any Interruption. At last I destred. the old Gentlemen to confider whether the Fault might not be in themselves; hinting, that it was just possible a Man of Sixty or Seventy was not so susceptible of Pleasure, as in his Youth; and consequently things might not appear in so favourable a light to him, as when every Pleasure was heightened by Youth, and a .lively Imagination.
They
6+  XV
They all stared at me at once, as they had Seen a Monster. Undoubted! they took me for one, for being so vei unreasonable, as to fancy thirty or fori Years could postibly make any Alteratio in them : And I found they were resolve to believe the whole Creation was grow worse, and the Face of Nature changec rather than that there was any Fault i themselves. I left them, not being able t restrain myself from laughing at their Folly and, I must confess, with a secret Satil faction in the Thought, that, if I Shoul live to be old, it will be impossible fc me ever to be so great a Fool. But I er joy Life much the better, now I have i a manner got a Key to all the Scenes ' meet with.
I Spent Yesterday in a Party of Plea sure on the Water; but after a very fai Morning, about three a clock the Cloud Suddenly gathered, and we had so violen a Storm of Rain and Wind, that our Boa tossed, and we seemed in great Danger ol being overset. The Ladies Screamed, anc were so restless in their apparent Fright,
thal
 XV 65
that I really thought, if we escaped the Dangers of the Waves, they themselves would Bring that to pafs, of which they seemed ib fearful; whilst the Gentlemen employed themselves in nothing, but in hustling the Ladies Fears, and assuring them, that for their own parts, they were not in the least apprehenstve of any Danger. But as Fear, like all other violent Pastions, will Show its Effects in the Countenance, I plainly perceived, that the Ladies were at that very Instant affecting more Fear than in reality they felt, to prove their Tittle to that Timorousness and Softness, which are esteemed so amiable in their Sex; and the Gentlemen were equally as much affected in their pretended Unconcern, to Show they were possessed of that Courage so necessary to recommend them. And thus in the Danger of immediate Death, they could not help thinking of making themselves reciprocally Objects of Admiration,
For my own part, I confess I was not pleased with our Situation; and yet the great Contempt I had for the ridiculous vol. II E Pride
6  xxvt
Pride so visible in all my Company, good deal employed my Thoughts. I w pleased to think I was the only Person th was not acting a Part; and I could n help crying out with Solomon, “Every thii is Vanity; ” a Discovery I should ce tainly have made sooner, but that, bei] almost exempt from Vanity myself, it w some time before I could see it so flroj in others: and I claim no Merit in havii now found it out, but that of underftan ing, and being convinced by, your Reafoi
I am,
SIR,
Tour moji obliged humble Servant, CL EOMENE
t 67)
 XVI aurelia to Silvia at Canterbury
Dear S i L V i A, [From London
ON my first arrival in Town, I spent a Day with cjeora. We were very intimate one Winter, when she was first married to Celadon; but, as I have lately resided mostly in the Country, I have had but few Opportunities of converstng with her. Her Conversation was always agreeable to me, and I proposed great pleasure in this Renewal of our Acquaintance.
I W A s conducted by a great Variety of Servants through many Rooms of State, till I came to her Apartment, where She sat mourning in Grandeur, and where Grief, E 2 though'.
6  XXVI
tho’ attended with Pomp, was visibly displayed in her Countenance. Instead osth( lively blooming Cleora I formerly remembered, her wan Complexion, and lifelei Manner indicated the Decay of Age, al tho’ she was too young for Time to hav wrought that Change. She seemed glai to see me; and I could hardly refrai from Tears, to behold her thus altered an dejected. At last I asked her, what coul have occasioned this melancholy Alteration Alas! replied Cleora, you know bu “little of the History of my unhapp Life; for the Winter I chiefly Sper “with you, was the gayest and most fre “from Anxiety I ever knew.” I told hei that I was indeed ignorant of the moi part of what had befallen her, both be fore, and stnce that Winter; but that, if j would not be an impertinent Request, Should destre to be informed of any Parti clilars that concerned her; on which She with a Sigh, began to relate the Histor ojt her Life in the following Manner.
“Duri
 XVI 69
During my Childhood, nothing “very remarkable happened to me. Both my Parents lived till I was Fifteen; and I was educated in a manner so Very ‘‘ common, that, if I was to repeat every “thing that passed during that whole time, “it would be like writing a Journal of “what is daily seen in almost: every ‘‘ House throughout all this whole metre polls.
“But when I was Fifteen, my fa there died. He had a good Estate, which devolved on his only Son; and my for tune, constdering the manner in which I had lived with him, Was very small“ “could not afford me anything likd what I had been accustomed to: ho'w ever, I lived on with my Mother III ‘‘ Town, till I was Eighteen, without any farther Constderation, than bow I should ** divert niyfelf, and spend my Time hiost y agreeably.
E s 1
7  XXVI
“I W A s flattered that I was hand ‘‘ some, and had a great many genen “Admirers but, as they did not make “me any serious Proposals, I thought C “them no farther, than for the presei Amusement.
One day my Mother told me, st could no longer Support the Expenses ( a Town life, and wasrefolved total a little House in Oxford. I knew r “particular Reason for her choosing th “Place; but, as I had no Attachment, fubnaitted to what Ihe liked withoi “any Reluctance. She gave me a gre many Instructions how I Should behai “myself towards the young Gentleme there, and cautioned rne what gre Tare was necessary, to preserve a W( man's Reputation. I obeyed her Con mands with the utmost Exactness, m “she for some time seem’d gseatly pleast y with my Behaviour.
Pu
L ETTER XXVI yr
\ ‘‘ B u T on a sudden I found everything
I did or said, was far from being looked on with that Partiality that is common “for Parents to indulge towards their Chil. ‘ dren; on the contrary, my Mother grew ‘‘ So ‘peevish, and discontented with me, that it was impossible Tor jne to keep her ¦f; in good-humour. I was very uneasy at this Alteration in her Behaviour, and resolved to ask her the Cause of it; when, to my .great astonishment, after the Vent of many Tears, she answered me in these or the like Words: “Alas, Child! you do not know what I have “done for you : Since your Father, my “dear hushand’s Death .(here She was a gain interrupted by Tears) J have lived “so much beyond my Income, that I am almost ruin’d; and this I did, in hopes that, whilst you made a good Appear“ “you might have been well mar ried; for many a Man, who would on no account think of marrying the most .agreeable Woman in the World without a Fortune, by the false Glare of out y ward ..Show, is drawn in to indujlge him
E 4 r ftif
7  XXVI
“self in a Passion, he cannot afterwards “get the better of. My Mother, continued “She, was a wise Woman, and by this very “Means I got my Husband, altho’ I had “not above 500/. in the world. Ifl had been whhnjical, and fancied I must: have ‘‘ been in Love, I stiould never have been so well married; nor, if I had been fond of my Husband, could I have had my “own Way so much all my lifetime j for he was an obstinate Man, and no“ “but my sensible artful Manage“ “could have got the better of him."
at first greatly surprised tc hear my Mother run on in this manner, and, without thinking any harm, afkec her; If She had no Fondness for hei ‘‘ Husband, why she always fell into Tear!
at the mention of his Name } At first “She fell into a great Rage, and said, You are a Fool, and, do not know th( “common Rules of Decency: how car * any Woman hear all the melanchol) ^ Things, which are at first said by bet “Friends on such an occasion, withou y crying .^ and Cust^ makes it as natura ................. yiiq
 XVI 73
"to shed Tears, whenever we remember a Husband, as if we had really lost something very valuable : besides, I really had a great Loss; for my Jointure can not keep me in any respect: so well, as I lived in my hushand’s lifetime. I was in hopes, by living beyond my cir cumstances, to See you well, that is, “grandly married in London. I fail’d ih " that Scheme; then I came hither, “thinking your Beauty would certainly “draw in Some young Fellow, and that I “Should live to See you Wise to a goad “Ejiate before my Death; but you, for “your part, have been so silly, as to make “use of no Are, otherwise your Person“ “not have failed of getting you a “Husband“
“e Result of this Conversation was, that my Mother insta^ucted me how I was to behave towards Men, in (der“ “aceomplisti her Scheme; arid first, “r was to be sure to sty all the Mento “whom I had ever the least Likingfor “there indeed I might be in danger of " being made the Dupe: but A those
y that
7  XXVI
‘‘ that were disagreeable to me, I was t ^ pretend to like. This I thought im “possible, but my Mother insisted on II f that there was nothing so easy;; that
/, “Words are always at command, whei
‘ “there is no Sensation to prevent the
1 ‘‘ Utterance; and that I had nothing el:
“to do, but to be sure to repeat tl words Love, Affection, Tenderness & “many times a day, or week, acco “ding to the man’s Temper, with whoi I had to deal; and let him alone, “he liked me, to do all the rest himself“ “to comfort me. She assured m “that I had no occasion of telling any d rect Lies; for that, if I did but repe “those Words, and look at the Man ‘cwish’d to impose on; as I lived in “Place, where I was to deal with youi and unexperienced Men, it would 1 ‘ • enough to gain my Point. My not mal ing any particular Application, wou “be. taken for Modesty : but above j things, she charged me not to show ai “, Liking to any Man, till I had reason fuspect he was firmly attached to m( y for otherwise I stiould get the Reput
y tic
 XVI 75
tion of a Coquette, and by that means fustrate all her Designs“
“DID not like this Doctrine, nor did ‘‘ I well know how to bring myself to “comply with it; but my Mother conti“ “repeated her Leflbns, till at last I “began to think it not very unreasonable to follow her Advice. Ambition, though' ‘‘ it was not naturally very predominant in my Mind, by a parent’s continual en deavour to nourish and increase it, at last warm’d my Heart into a Desire of Gran ‘‘ deur and Dignity.
The moment I catched the Flame, ‘‘ Imagination blew up the Happiness of “Equipage, and all the Attendants offor “tune, to such a height, that, blinded by ‘‘ the dazzling glittering View, every solid“ “vanished before the glaring ‘‘ Blaze, and I became so absolutely Subjected ‘‘ to this newborn or newfound Fancy, f‘ that, like other Slaves, I did not dare to entertain the Truth, en in my Thoughts.
y Whilst
7  XXVI
‘‘whilst I was thus blinded, I for “got, that to deceive another withou ‘‘ the use of lying Words, is the worst C Treachery, as it not only deceives th “poor unhappy Person we design to make our Dupe, but is also an impudent At tempt to equivocate even with the Co “of Truth.
“I S A TI s p IE D myself with the In ‘‘ nocence of my Actions, as I thought would make a very good Wife; an therefore could not imagine a Man woul “be much hurt by being married to me but did not confider the irreparable In jury of taking the advantage of the Fir of Youth, to make a Man irretrievabl bind himself to a Woman for Life 2 ‘‘ an Age, when he knows not what h Shall like or esteem for three Days for ward. In Short, as soon as Ambitio; had once got possession of me, I forge everything but what was to conduce ei there to gratify or justify this my nev y imperious tyrannical Governor.
 XVI 77
“My Mother's Maxims I found were all very true; for, the moment it en“ “into my Head to follow her Scheme, “I wanted no Rules to guide me; for “it was so very easy to see the Turn of young Mens Passions, that what Sort “of Behaviour would best: please them, “was too obvious, to require any great “Penetration or Experience to discover“ “the most silly Woman in the World, “whilst stie is the Object: of a Man's “Kindness, and at the same time indiffe “rent to him, may easily find out the “method of attaining her own Ends.
“When there is Passion on the one “fide, and Cunning on the other, both Parties must Succeed; for Cunning “will work its Ends, whenever it has to “deal with Passion; and Passion once in“ “till it postestes the whole Mind, “will be gratified, notwithstanding any “consequence that may attend it.
“A M o N G s T the Variety of Lovers my “person and Art (assisted by my Mother's
y Advice)
7  XXVI
“Advice) daily gain’d me, I had Ad “mirers of all sorts of Characters; and “soon learned the proper Manner of treat “ing them all according to their differei Humours. A Spectator, who had know my Designs, must have been diverte “to see show easy it is to make Men be lieve whatever their Inclinations promj them to desire. I found Methods ( making the Covetous persuade themfehe “that the cheapest thing a Man could d( “was to marry; for a Wife, confiderin “his Interest as her own, would certair ly contrive every Method of being; saving as She could. The proud and e3 “alted Mind, by my Contrivance, altho’ did not appear in it, was soon brougl to defpise the Opinion of the World; ar “fancy’d, ifmen could justify their Actioi “to themselves, that was enough; for it “too common to flatter ourselves wit ‘‘ excelling the rest of Mankind in Jud^ “ment.
“As to the Trifling and Vain, fuel '' whose Vanity was to be Satisfied by tl y Attainment of outward Objects, the
y thougl
 XV L 79
“thought how charming it would be, to “have all the World say, they had a “handsome Wife. Thus, by properly ap“ “to Mens various Difpolitions, I “turned even those Pafiions, that in ap“ “seem’d to make against: me, to “my own use. In a Small time I was “become Such a Proficient in Cunning, “that my mother’s Instructions were no “longer necessary: The most difficult Part “I had to play, was that of discarding a ‘‘ Lover, without Suffering his Rage at ‘‘ being forsaken to do me an Injury; for “I could not help forsaking one Man for “another, as Soon as I came to confider “nothing but the Estates to which my “Several Lovers were Heirs apparent, and “look’d on them in no other sight, than “that in which a tradesman Sees the In“ “of his Trade, by which he is ‘‘ enabled to attain his purposed End of getting Money.
However, I was not long, before “I found out that Men, tho’ at first en raged at being slighted, are not altoge “there inconsolable: and when I was rey
Solved
So  XVI
solved not to gratify their Love, I a peafed their Anger by satisfying the ‘‘ Pride; and this I did, by letting there make their Companions believe, th ‘‘ their own Consideration and Prudent was the cause, why they followed ir " no longer; and at the same time too “care to let the new Lover know, th: “for his sake I had refused the oath “This always encreased the Passion( ( “one of my Lovers, as it flattere his Love, by making him believe it w“ “and his Pride, by Shewin the Preference I gave him. A very Sma “Experience was Sufficient to teach mi “that, whilst: a Woman endeavours t “persuade a Man she likes him, wh ‘‘ others Say to him, will have but a ver “little chance of persuading him to th “contrary.
“atwelvemonthi pasted in thi “manner; but it would be endless to en “deavour to enumerate all the Arts “nxade use of, and the success I me ^ with; for I might have been marriei
y Severa
 XVI 8r
several times; but, as I saw my Power, “I was not in haste, still hoping to get “better Offers, than any I had hitherto met with.
^‘whilst I was thus fiuctuating, and unfixed in my Mind where to choose, young celadotz' came to the University“ “was Heir to such an Estate, that I “immediately threw out all my Lures to “gain his Regard. It was not long before “I succeeded; for, as he was naturally “amorous and sincere, and I was young, handsome and artful, it was almost impossible I could fail. I delayed the Mar“ “no longer, than was necessary not to appear too forward to him; for, as “he was taken great care of by his Tutor, “if his Love had been once found out, “undoubtedly I must have lost him.
“As soon as we were married, at my “hushand’s Request, I left off converstng “with any other of the young Gentlemen. “I had obtained my Ends, and now thought I had no further use of Art. I knew we could not be unmarried, and vol. II F “did
8  XXVI
‘‘ did not confider the Consequence of thi sudden Change in my Behaviour; bt my lasi: Lover, enraged at my refufin “all farther Converse with him, watche “me so narrowly, that he discovered Ct ladoes visiting me, was the Cause( ( Change, and immediately told it 1 his Tutor, who thought it his Duty 1 “acquaint his Father with it.
“The old Gentleman sent for his for and, without telling him his Reason f it, informed him, that he designed in ‘‘ mediately to send him abroad. Po “Celadon, who was sincere and artle could not hide his Grief at this Refol tion of his Father's; and at last: co: “Seffed he was married. Rage and Indi “nation at first; so overwhelmed the F “ther’s Mind, that he had not power “speak; but, as soon as Passion would gi “him leave to utter his Words, he cor ‘‘ manded his Son to go that moment fro “his Presence, and never see him moi “Celadon fell on his Knees, but all was no purpose, for the Father was inflexib! and would not suffer. him even to ir
“plo
 XVI s3
'' plore his Pardon. He was ambitious, and designed to match his Son where he “might make some great Alliance, and “could not bear the Disappointment; the Result was, that he Sent his Son into “the Country j where he allowed him “enough to keep him from starving, but “would neither see nor hear from him. '
“CELADON desired me to come“ “him; and, with my Fortune, though' “it was but small, yet, as we lived upon “the Principalj we wanted for nothing that was necessary or convenient; and, “as celadotfs Father could not hinder his “Son from inheriting his Estate at his “Death, my future Prospect was very “good, and I made myself happy; be“ “as Celadon was very handsome, and had all manner of Accomplishments, “and amiable Qualities, I had a Passion“ “him, which till this Retirement, I “had no time to discover, even to myself; for my Mind was so possessed at my first Acquaintance with him, with the “Thoughts of his Estate, that I never con ‘ fidered whether I liked or distiked him.
F 2 We
8+  XVI
W E lived together half a Year in this Retirement, when Celadotfs Father died, “and left his Son in the postefiion of his Estate. Then! was produced in the World “in a Light neither my own nor my mo ther’s Ambition could hardly have hoped for: But from the moment all my Scheme! were accomplished, my Misery took iti birth. Celadorf^ Father would not for ‘‘ give him, even to his dying day: Tb “poor young Man not yet Twenty, wa ‘‘ grieved to the Soul, to think he ha thus disobliged his Father; and, as fooi as that Melancholy was a little wore oss “Celadon with Youth, Beauty and For tune, courted and admired by all th ‘‘ World, grew weary of a Chain he hai “hastily, and from the reststlefs Force C ‘‘ ungovern’d Passion, fastened on himfe for Life. He was good natur’d enoug' “to treat me civilly, but had not Hype “crify enough to feign the least remainin ‘‘ Passion.
‘‘ Thu
 XVI 8s
Thus was I married to a Man, for whom I had the most violent Passion, who treated me with a Neglect that made me hate myfeff, and everything around me. I knew it was but what I “deserved; for, altho’ I accidentally met ^ “with a Man, whom I could not help loving, yet I was very sensible, that no Treachery could be greater than what I designed. Had Celadon been the Object “of my Aversion, I should have married him, and made use of his own Passions ‘‘ to have undone him; and with all his Advantages of Nature and Fortune, he “would have then been married to a Wo“
“who had no Affection for him; therefore it was but Justice, I should have a fruitless Passion for him, when his for me was irrecoverably lost. All Signs of “Grandeur and Show were hateful to me, as they only brought to my remem brance, by what means I had obtained them. I was cursed like Midas., for his “Wish of having all things he touched turned to Gold; for I was in the midst of Riches, and yet could enjoy nothing.
F 3 “Restectioii
8  XXVI
“Reflection could bring me no comsor but on the contrary added to my To: “ments; and, as I was felf condemnc every fresh Thought increased my M fery.
M Y Mother, when she saw into wh a deplorable Situation her Advice hi “brought me, not only lost all Sense“ “Pleasure she imagined she should e “joy from my Grandeur, but began al to be tcuchsh/with Remorse, for havii once put it in my head, that any Treach ry could be eligible. In short, Gr: threw her into such Agonies, that S did not long survive it, but left me “bear the load of Sorrow she had broug “upon me alone.
“CELADON at lass; fell violeni in love with a young Lady, whe Virtue was too well guarded to be ovt ‘‘ come, but yet whose Love for him V so apparent, that he must: see I was t only Bar to his Happiness. To say wl “I felt on this occasion, would be nee “less; for, when a Woman lives with
Hushan
 XVI 87
Husband, who is to her the Object of ‘‘ a violent Passion, and at the same time he is in love with another, and thinks his Wife prevents his possessing the Ob“ “of his Love, her Misery muss be “greater, than is in the power of lan guage to express. I shall not therefore “attempt so impossible a Talk.
‘‘ I Know Celadon and the Lady he ad“ “will marry, as Soon as my unfor “tunate Life is at an end; for she would “never think of any other Man : and, I ‘‘ believe, I cannot now long prevent their “mutual Happiness, for you see the ter rible weak State my Misery has reduced “me to. I wish my Story was published “to all the World, as one of the many Examples, that Treachery Should ever be avoided, even for our own Advantage. 'Tis true. Celadon might have behaved “in the same manner, had my Love been “at first the Motive to my roarrying him; but then I should not have had the cruel Reflection on my Mind, that I sought and deserved my own Miseries, which F 4 y are
8  XXVI
“are greatly increased by my having £ ‘‘ Daughter now about ten Years of Age “who I mull: soon leave unbefriended t( “the wide World, and perhaps She ma“ “with some such wise Instructions ‘‘ as have been the Cause of every Misfortune that has attended her unhappy Mo there.”
Here poor Cleora ceased; for he Tears, at the Remembrance of her Daughter, stowed from her Eyes, and prevente any farther Utterance. Compassion mac me sympathise with her, and I was real) heartily concerned to see her in that Coi dition: But the Complication of Disten pers, occasioned by her continual grievinj must Soon end her Misfortunes; and hope her Daughter will meet with a bet Fate.
I am.
Dear Silvia,
Tours, c.
aurelii
( 89)
 XVII Silvia to Aurelia at London.
Dear Aurelia, [From Canterbury.
ALTHO’ I received your Letter when my Heart was in its utmost Gaiety, and my Vanity elated, (for I was just come from a Ball, where I was much admired and greatly flattered, and where I deign’d not in return, to cast an Eye of Favour on any of my Adorers) yet poor Cleora!% Fate drew Tears from my Eyes, and wrung my Heart with Sorrow. Her Misery made her the Object of my Compassion; and, though' she ki some Sort de,, it, yet when I confider a Parent's Commands were her first Inducements to practice Arts to ensnare Men, by the
Strength
9  XXVII
Strength of their present reigning Passion, that Consideration pleads some Excuse sober Misconduct: For terrible it is, that a Mother should mifiead her Daughter, and that even Experience Should not have informed her, that the Gratification of Vanity is not capable of producing real Happiness: : I am afraid, when Parents give such Advice, their Childrens Happiness or Misery has very little Sway with them.
This Story is to me a Confirmation oi what I always thought; namely, that moss part of the Miseries that attend Humar Rind, take their rise from Mens not understanding, or feriousty reflecting, that the chief Point of Wisdom consists in never making the second Consideration the first.
Now the first Consideration in Matrimony, ought undoubtedly to be the Disposition and Temper of the Man; what Prospect there is of Happiness at home; what Likelihood of his continuing his Passion, and whether you can in all Cafes conform to your hushand’s Circumstances.
Ih
 XVII 91
In short. Fortune should be no farther considered, than as it is conducive to the • Pleasure of the Man you marry; and your only Reason for thinking of it at all should be, that you would not, to gratify yourself, drag him down to ruin.
Had Cleora thought in this manner, she would have had time to have found out, that she really liked Celadon; and her Fears of his future Dislike would have made her scrupulous, considering his Youth, of immediately consenting to the Match. Perhaps this Delay, as celadoe^ Father had other Views, might have made her lose her Husband; but at the same time Absence, join’d with Neglect, might have enabled her to have overcome her jpaffion; and, by such a Loss, I think it very plain, she would have been a very great Gainer in the end.
I Have known some Women really marry, only because the Man they chose lived in a particular Town, which their present Fancy inclined them to inhabit; hen it has generally turned out, that
Some
9  XXVII
Some unforeseen Accident has removed then from the sight of those Walls, to the be holding of which, they had sacrificed they Hearts. On the other hand, I have heari of Women, who have chose their Husbands for their own sakes, without an consideration where they lived, or wha was their Profession; and, however stupii this may appear to some Eyes, yet I hav generally remarked, that they have not re pented their Conduct.
But it is not only in Matrimony, tha People make themselves miserable, by turn ing the Second Consideration into the first there arc many People, who could enjo themselves, and See their Friends happy i the Country, and yet will not live out C the great Metropolis, tho’ every Diverfioi there is to them as uncomeatable, as if the; were in the Deserts of Arabia,
Th E RE are others, who fill their Head So still of the pleasures of a fine Prospect an( a pleasant Situation, that they build awa] their Fortunes, till they find the Pleasure they receive at their Eyes, and the fress
Aii
 XVII 93
Air they breathe at their Nostrils, will make them but little amends for Swallowing all that was to Support the long Train of Passions and Appetites they had, and might still have indulged, had not that very Spot of Ground been necessary for them to build on, and improve, in order to complete their imaginary happiness.
But Instances of this kind, even in my small Experience, are So numberless, that it would be in vain to endeavour to recount them; yet, altho’ they are So common, I can hardly help wondering how Men can be So blind to their own true Interest.
For want of leisure, and Capacity of sending anything more entertaining, I must conclude, with assuring you,
J am Tours affephonately^
SILVIA.
( 54)
 XVIII
Cynthia to Camilla at Londor
d^’n: r Camilla, [frompi'bx
AS it is one of the great Pleasures Friendship, reciprocally to commi nicate our Thoughts to each other; an as it is my Opinion, that even my Du obliges me thankfully to accept all "fl Happiness my Nature is capable of, whi] I preserve myself from Guilt; I doubly ei joy every new Idea, every fresh Subject Observation, by reflecting on what you w think or say upon it.
Thus in my closet, at a hundred Mil distance, I converse with you, previoul form in my Mind what will be your Ai Swers 5 and I am so well acquainted wi
yoi
 XVIII 95
your way of thinking, that I flatter myself, that, was you present, you would generally speak the Words I in fancy say for you. Thus J contrive all the Methods I can, to make myself some amends for our Separation; and am now sat down to acquaint you with everything I have met with since my last Letter, with an incredible Pleasure.
I Spent the whole Day before yesterday with Hortenjius and his Wife. He has very lively Parts, a good Understanding, and is in all respects an agreeable Companion. She is very pretty, has a fine person, and was, as I am told, before she was married, far from being disagreeable in Company; but she has not a Capacity to reflect deeply, or enter into any of the Labyrinths of the human Mind: and yet, as a Man of Sense is fond of her, it is impossible to make her believe, that her Understanding is not equal to his. And thus, from an Affectation of knowing everything, she is become insupportable, and knows nothing; for that Capacity she naturally had, is totally lost in the Confusion of Ideas,
which
9  XXVIII
which her strong Desire of being thougl wise, creates.
HORTENSIUS employed the Morr ing in reading to us: Miltoti's Parad. Lost was the Book he pitched on, and expected to be very much entertained wit his agreeable Manner of reading, and h Remarks, which are generally very jud cious. But his Wife interrupted evei thing he said, in a way almost impostib to describe: however I will try, by a R petition of one or two of her Mistakes, make it as plain as I can.
For example, when Hortenftus was d tinguistiing the vast Difference betwei Eve's. Soliloquy, wherein she gives tl Reasons to induce her to tempt her Hu band, and admits this as the stronge that he Should not he happy without her; ai Adam generous distnterested Refolutio that he would not be happy without hei The Lady, presuming to know what h Husband meant before he had uttered 1 Words, turned everything topfy turvej assured him stie was very much of h
Opinio
 XVIII 97
Opinion, that Eve's superior Tenderness was very visible, from that rw/rj Thought of making it her chief Fear, her huf band Should be happy in a future Eve, and she alone be forced to Suffer the pu nifiiment of her Disobedience. I was really astonilhed at this Turn, but said nothing, for I knew not what Answer to make.
hortensiusxt^aon; and when he came to the Dispute between Adam and Eve, which had been most in fault, he could not help remarking the great Alteration of Adam's Style since the Fall. That pure and disinterested Love, he used before to express, was vanished, and in its stead came Tumult and Difcoist; and he could not help making unavailing Reproaches against his Wife for an Action, which the utter Impossibility of recalling, should have made him unwilling to remind her of. (Al Example not perfedily forgot by the greatest pan of his Posterity.) Here the Lady a gain interposed, and Said; “she had al“ “thought it one of the greatest Beau“ “in Adam Character, that he upbraided
his Wife, only when she deserved it, vol. II 0 and
^8 L E T T E R XXVIII
and therefore (htmujl feel it most: : " an it was very plain by her Answer, that st was hurt with his Rebuke. For, altho’; first: she gives a Hint, that Adam migl have been tempted as well as herself, yet: the End of her Speech she is visibly pen tent, and owns that her hushand’s Fol in giving way to her Humour, was tl Cause of her Fall; and therefore humh confesses, it was entirely his Fault, and fel justified, finds her own perfect Innocem in his Crime. This she Spoke Serioust and really thought ew’s Humility was tl Motive of her upbraiding Adam.
Perhaps you will imagine, that ilo\ tenfiiis, impatient at his Wife's exposir herself, must have laid down the Book : a rage? No, on the contrary he feemt vastly pleased with her. As I did not coi tradict anything she said, I fancy he w not sure her Folly was visible to me and I plainly perceived he delighted hin self, with the Thoughts of his own Supt riority over a Person, who has so muc the Power of pleasing, as his Wife has. Th made him gratify her Vanity in return, ar
tak
 XVIII 99
lake care stie Should not see, but that he thought stie was quite right in her Judge.. of what he had been reading; however, by some Words he let drop, I found he imputed this Behaviour of his to Compassion.
Thus, whilst in reality he was gratifying a low ridiculous Pride, his Imagination had Force enough to introduce into his Mind a false Name for his Sensations; and consequently to give him more Food for his Vanity, more Cause for exulting, and more Pleasure in the Contemplation of himself.
B u T I could not forbear Smiling at the Thought, that, whilst he was thus enjoying his own Perfections, I was placing him in my Fancy in guuivep% Stead on the brob dignag Table, to play Monkeyish Tricks, and be “the Baby of a Girl, ” or const dering him held up in. the Air between the Finger and Thumb of one of those Giants, whilst he was constdering what Sort of Animal he might be.
G 2 This
loo  XVIII
This Scene ended in great good-humour: Hortenjius walked out in the Afternoon, bought his Wife a Present he could not afford; she was much pleased with id. (only as a Proof of his Love;) he looked on her Manner of receiving it, as a Mark of her affetion for him; and the Evening passed in Mirth and Pleasantry: they mutually fed each other’s Vanity, and imagined it was all real Love. I went home well enough pleased; for, as they appeared happy, I did not want to open their Eyes, by which their happiness might have been lessened, and could not have been encreased
Perhaps you may think this Scene very unnatural, after my firsf Setting oui with Hortenfmf^ being a Man of Sense, bui he really is So, notwithstanding all I have told you : and, if you will constder it a litth while, I believe you will find, that, when Pride is strongly planted in the Mind, then is no Understanding will guard a Man fron being sometimes guilty of very great Follies; and, altho’ Pride and Sense are no often dear Friends, yet they do Sometime)
accidental!]
 XVIII loi
accidentally fall into each other’s Company; and whenever that happens, they pull Separate ways, till the Man, with whom they take up their Abode, appears as in conliftent, as if he was pofiested with a Legion of Follies. And this always brings to one’s Remembrance those two Lines:
Who would not laugh, if such a Man there he? Who would not weep, if — — were he?
And, as a farsher Proof of this Observation, in my next I will let you into a Scene I was yesterday Witness to j a Contrast in appearance to this I have been now describing, and yet the principal Actor in it, was directed by the same Passion with Hortenfus.
But it is now too late to write more, for the Post will be gone, and I can never think the least Disappointment to my Friend, a Trifle.
/ am,
g3 CYNTHIA
{ 102)
 XIX •camilla to Cynthia at Bath.
'Cynthia, [Fro Londoi
ITHANK you for the picturefqi Scene you displayed before my Eye in your Account of Hortenjius and h Wife. I confess, the Judgement I at sir formed of him, from what you say of h Understanding, would not have led me 1 have guested what followed; but I sin that the continual Remembrance of h own good Sense constitutes the chief Pa of his Pleasure, and diat (odd as it m appear) in his wife’s Polly he finds his ov Wisdom, and Sresti Opportunities every hoi
 XIX 103
of exerting what he is pleased to think his Compassion.
But let him be never So much mistaken in the Motives of his Conduct:, as good-humour and happiness are the result from it, the Constderation, in my opinion, is not at all melancholy, altho’ I am better pleased, when I view another’s happiness built on the strong Foundation of Reality and Truth, than on the stippery Bottom of Fallacy and Deceit; because in the latter Cafe, like Flights of the Imagination, one cannot tell how Soon it may fail, and the Foundation be destroyed; whereas in the former, like solid Reason, the Basts is sure, and must be lasting: and, as I know every fresh Instance of either the Goodness or Happiness of your Fellow-creatures is a new pleasure to you, I will indulge myself in indulging you, and tell you the Story, or rather give you the Characters of Conjlantius and his Wife.
constantius's Understanding and good nature are equally concerned in the directing every Action of his G 4 Life
10  XXIX
Life: He keeps up to the strictest Rules o Honour in all his Dealings with Mankind no one can say he has ever injured them but numbers, if they will speak the truth may say he has taken opportunities of do ing them good. He does many Actions other Men would think Sufficient to givi them a Title to be called real Friends, onl; from a general Benevolence in his Disposition. This Inclination in the strongel manner leads him to Friendship, but hi Understanding will not let him take fall Objects for true ones; and therefore h will not allow the many, who coul gratify nothing but their Vanity by it, th Pleasure of thinking him their particuk Friend. But Acts of good nature, instea of being any Expense to him, are his ret Interest, as they are his chief Delight.
He is perfectly free from all Seeds of En vy, and consequently of Malignity : indee some Objects of Envy it is impossible h stiould meet with, because he cannot Southeast anything above him in point of Under standing; and therefore he can have n Temptation to wish to pull others dowr
Sine
 XIX 105
since being upon a level with him is the utmost any Man can pretend to j but if the Seeds were in him, they might break forth against those, who have in outward things the advantage over him. Such as Fortune, Grandeur, {ffc. But what is to me much more extraordinary, I don’t find he is much the Object of Envy to others: the only reason I can give for it, is, that those few, those very few who can equal him, have the same Reason for not envying him, as he has for not being angry with them; (for in Understanding, contrary to all other things, those at the Top alone can bear to see Equals without thinking them Rivals) and other Men, from the great Distance visible between him and them, despair to reach him; and therefore don’t attempt it, but rather choose to prove their Sense., in joining the general Cry and admiring him.
consrantius is married, and even in this Point Passion did not get the better of his usual Judicioufnefs. He liked Fidelia., 'tis true, because she is an Object worthy to be liked; but he did not choose
her,
io  XIX
her, till he found her worthy to be loved He is at once Satisfied with, and improve her Understanding, admires her persoi and loves her Heart 5 never contradicts he to show only his Power; and, was she t desire anything that would be a hurt 1 herself, he would have Resolution enoug in that point only, to resist his own Ir clination of indulging her. He is please with the Propriety of her Behaviour 0 all Occasions, not fi-om the Dignity of laing hh Wife do right, but because 1 loves her too stncerely, to bear her doin wrong.
FIDELIAS very pretty, and an ur affected softness in her Look and Manni throws a Lustre over all her Words an Actions. She has a very good Understand ing, and, what is almost a Miracle, thoroughly Satisfied with it, not from a vai Affectation, and believing it greater than is, but because she finds it enough to fa tisfy the only Man she wishes to please and, instead of desiring to impose any Fal lacy on her Husband, she, by his Instructions, improves herself to be in reality wb 3 other
 XIX 107 others only affect: to be. Her Inclination; o do whatever he desires, makes her Dbedience so perfect:, that she always Spares lim the Pain it would cost: him to deny her any Request: : for, if she can but imagine anything to be his will, she never hesitates a moment before She puts it in execution.
They may properly be Said to have chosen each other; because, as she was the Object of public Admiration, she preferred him to many other Lovers, and, I doubt not, would have preferred him to all the world; and, as it is impossible that many Women should have refused him, it is plain the Motive that determined his Choice, was real Love,
IF she Height of human happiness could be painted, Qonjiantius and his Wife should fit for the Picture. Thus, upon a Solid Foundation, to love and esteem each other, nd to give pleasure to all around them (except such, as from the Malignity of their own Hearts, don’t deserve to be pleased)
is
io  XIX
is a Situation not to be easily describi and I leave it to your own Imagination.
But even Conjlantius does Mischief, i from any Design, as you may suppose frc the Character I have already given of hi: but as his Wit is much above the Coi prehension of the Multitude, and as it impossible to avoid sometimes converfi with those, to whose Capacities he cam possibly lower himself, they mifunderfia everything he says; and, from an Ami tion of being like him, form themfeh by the Sentiments they wisely 2udi jm doufly imagine he utters: for examp notwithstanding what I have already tc you of his Behaviour to Fidelia, yet ^ will sometimes in an ironical manner, an Advocate for the Tyranny of Hulbanc So that I have known Men go home ai abuse their Wives, for want of Capaci to enter into his real Meaning, and b cause they would not for the world 1 thought defective in any Mark of Gooi Sense.
 XIX 109
I Am particularly acquainted with one Jentleman, who by mere accident now and hen gets into Conjlantius'% Company, and when he has heard him jocosely satirise ill latur’d and morose Difpolitions, he is sure
0 take all his Satire for Approbation of hose ill Qualities; and in all Companies, hat he may not be wanting in the cha acter of wisdom, which he assumes, he ontradicts every Word his Wife says, with. pjhaw, a meaning Shrug of the Shoulders,
1 muttering of Womens Polly, and every )ign of Contempt he can invent Or think f. The poor Woman is out of counte lance, and does not know what to make (f his Behaviour; for, when his over town Underjianding does not intervene, le is a very good Husband;; at other imes he is also a fond Father : but when his Fancy possesses him, if his Wife does ut mention his Children, he is out of all nanner of Patience, bids her hold her bolissi Tongue, if She can find no better Subject of Conversation to entertain him vith, than that of a Parcel of bawling Zhits, not yet arrived at an Age, in which
the
110 LET TER XXIX
the rational Faculties exert themselves, ai make them worthy to be thought on I Men of his sense.
consrantius does not, n cannot foresee the consequence of what i has said; and whilst: from his Words tl other Gentleman is ustng his Wife in tl delicate manner for no Provocation, he ai his Fidelia meet with Hearts recipr cally fill’d with Benevolence and Lov and give us one Proof, that real Happini is attainable, if pursued in the right M thod.
/ am., c.
CAMILLA
()
 XX
Cynthia to Camilla at London.
Deaf Camilla, [From Bath.
IC A N affure you with great Sincerity, you was not at all disappointed of suc cefs in your good-natured Design of giving me great Pleasure in your charming Characters of Conjlantius 2nd. Fidelia. Your Brother and your Cynthia are equally filled with Admiration and Esteem for them both; and could talk of nothing elfe the whole day we received your Letter. I wish it was in my power to tell you something as pleasing; but, as I must relate things as I meet with them, and do not invent them, I will proceed to fulfil my Promise, in giving you an account of a Scene, a Contrast in appearance, altho’
really
11  XXX
really arising from the same Motive will that I met with at the House of Hortenjiu
The next Day I Spent at Leontine' she is grave, tho’ cheerful in his Difpo: tion; he has an Understanding much abo’ the greatest part of Mankind, tho’ it fa short of the few who are remarkable f their Genius; expresses himself clearly t every Subject, but has not the Art of raifii Images which are diverting, - or greatly ei tertaining: He is good-humoured wht he is not offended; and does not plot Mi chief, when he is displeased: Thus, wha ever hurt he does others, either in h Words or Actions, it is owing to some pn sent Passion, and not to any long laid D( sign. This, in few words, is as much < his Character, as I have been able to ol Serve.
L EO NT IA, his Wife, is one of thoi Women I really love and esteem. She hai without a regular Set of Features, a Cour tenance which at once displays the Good nefs of her Head and Heart, and make her very pretty; like a judicious Index t
 XX 113
a well wrote Book, her Looks must: give every Beholder a Curiosity to read all the Sentiments contained in the Mind, of which they only point the Heads in a lively and agreeable Manner. Her Understanding (forgive the Boldness of the Metaphor) is as free from Art and Painting, as her Face, and consequently grows more amiable by a near and intimate Acquaintance: for the Woman, who from a strong Desire to be thought wise, and from a constant Flow of animal Spirits, vents in all Companies broken Scraps and confused Ideas which stie has picked up from others, may raise an Appearance of an Understanding, and impose the Fallacy in general on the Injudicious; but to those, who are able to examine and judge of Things as they really are, her conversation must be very Soon as disagreeable, as the Face of an old Woman is to those, who See her when the Paint is off, and her wrinkled Skin looks more dead, from having just before imitated the Bloom of Youth: for when the false Hair, eyebrows and Teeth are laid by, the Object is justly turned into Ridicule, that can be so childishly vain, as to vol. Il, H imagine
II  XX
imagine Art has Force enough to supply the Defects of Nature.
But to return to Her very Manner
of speaking is a Proof, that, to give o thers Pleasure, is her Motive to talk, and that neither a Love of Babbling, or a Pride in her own Parts, actuates her in the least; for she never raises her Voice (as is common when People think, that if they deign to open their Mouths, they have a right tc silence others) when another has a mind to speak;; the contrary, that is always a reason Sufficient for her to be silent. Tc which cause I impute her being So littk known; for as an eagerness to talk is nol very uncommon amongst Mankind, and she never takes any pains to make a Show oi her Understanding, it pastes generally unregarded.
Nothing can be a more perfect de fcription of this agreeable woman’s Conversation, than those delightful Lines in The Love of Fame, the Uni ve?fal pajjion :
Nakea
 XX 115
Naked in nothing Should a Woman be. But veil her very'wii with Modesty : Let Man discover; let not her display. But yield her Charms of Mind, with sweet Delay.
\ N Short, whilst I was acquainted with heontia, and had only now and then seen her Husband, I thought he must be the happiest Man in the World, in the pof sestion of a Wife with a Heart formed for all the Endearments of sincere unaffected Love; with an agreeable Person, without the least Mixture of anything mctculine or harsh, and withal a Head capable of making her a good Companion to Men of sense. But how was I deceived! for L aeon ‘ tine is unhappy from the very Cause, from which I imagined his Happiness must necessarily arise; and as Hortenfus enjoys his own Perfections by Seeing his wife’s Folly, Leontine meets with a continual Disappointment to his Pride, in Leontia's visible Superiority over him, which indeed he himself goes no farther than to think an Equals z lity;
ii  XX
lity; but that is more than he can be with any Patience.
1n the Morning our Conversation n chiefly on Books, when leotttid.s obse vations were so judicious, and her Though so noble and refined, that I could n help attending to her with a Pleasure seldom find in any Company; but all ss said was with such a Deference to h hushand’s Opinion, and uttered with much Modesty, that I expected him be as much pleased with her, as I at fii expected the Day before, Hortettjiiis to 1 displeased with his Wife : but I soon four 1 was equally mistaken in both Cafes; S Lpntine grew so four and peevish, th Leontia was very uneasy, without beir able to gucts by what Error (hidden eve from her own Eyes) she had offended hir
M Y Eyes were opened by the Scene had been Witness of the Day before; an( altho’ I believe Leontine himself did II perfectly know the Cause of his ill hi mour, it was very visible to me, that 1 was inwardly gnawed by that vulturenw
an
 XX 117
m.d. could not bear his Wife should have So much Sense and goodness, as to make it utterly impossible for him to gratify his Pride by her means. As he cannot use her better than she deserves, he can drag; he Idea of no other Virtue to join to his Dess: Behaviour, than barely not doing wrong, ' rhis he thinks no Cause for exulting, and herefore docs not care how ill he behaves; o her; and, contrary to Hortenjius, who s pleased in indulging his Wife in more : han he can afford, Leontine never lets Le ^ mtia have the least; Indulgence more than : ommon Decency obliges him in his sta ion to allow her; and, whatever she has a nind to do, he fnatchea greedily at the op )ortunity to contradict her, always saying, i Woman oj her Sense should not he pleased, lor fet her Heart upon Trifles; that, if le had a foolish Wise indeed, he might ndulge her like a Child, but a jirong un ierjianding should be a Guard against: all Levity.
Thus, under the pretence of paying her L Compliment, he is hoping that he sees,
L Frailty in her, to let iri a glimmering H 3 Shadow
ii L fi T T 1 R XXX
Shadow into his own Mind, of some Su periority in himself; and poor leontk because She is not a Fool, must give one d the strongest: Proofs imaginable of Follj namely, that of being above enjoying any C the Amusements of Life, for fear of lessening her Dignity in the Eyes of others. Sh has as few Weaknesses as any Woman ever knew, and it is very happy for he she has no more; for Leontine would viei them all in that magnifying Glass, his ow Pride, and Swell every Frailty into an ur pardonable Fault.
I Could observe no Smile upon h Countenance, but he kept up an austei thoughtful Look till dinner time, when Gentleman happened to come in, who hi the Reputation of being a great Scholar Leontine too has Learning, and, by no and then talking a Sentence in Greek, LI contrived to put himself into a tolerabl good-humour; and I could plainly read i his Looks what passed in his Mind, an that he Said to himself with Joy and Rature : Now I am sure we talk fomethir my Wife doth not understand.” The
lij
 XX 119
ujh Dialogue, which preceded a Greek Senr tence, gave her a Curiosity to ask the Meaning of the latter; when Leontine would not ive the other Gentleman leave to speak, but Said, that, altho’ he understood it very well in Greek, yet he could not explain it in Eng -- 'ijh enough to convey the Idea to her m.d. besides, it was above a woman’s un ierftanding. And then he ran out into a ong Harangue on the great Ufeleffnefs of Womens having any Understanding at all, except a Capacity to manage household af airs, and obey their Husbands.
If the most exact Economy in her fa nily, joined to the utmost strict obedi mce, could Satisfy him, I am certain he nust be Satisfied with Leontia; but his Discontent arises from a cause she cannot •emove, notwithstanding all ' she suffers ay it.
HI s Behaviour put an end to her fpeak ng any more; and, if it had not been in : ompaffion to her, I should have been diverted at the Ridiculousness of his Triumph. But she is really the Object of Pity: thp H 4 Match
12  XXX
Match between her and Leontine wa made, when they were both very young by their Parents, whq wisely took it int( their heads, that, because there had beei a long Intimacy in their Families, they Children must: be in love with each other or, to speak more properly, they blind!; followed their own Humour, withou troubling their heads about their Children Love or Happiness.
Thus they came together with no oath Regard, but that of having no particula Dislike to each other, and no Attachmer to any other Person.
IF Leontia had been left to herself, sh certainly would not have made choice C Leontine; yet if Ihe had chose him abov all the rest of Mankind, she could not hav made him a better, a more obedient Wife It is a Subject too tender for me to men tion to her; tho’ I am very certain, i she would have more Faults in her Con duct, he would have more Triumphs, an( consequently be much better pleased thai
 XX 121
it is possible for him to be with her present unexceptionable faultless Behaviour.
LEONTINE has really, as one would imagine, too much sense to be So childish; and nothing but the Same reason that I gave you for ilortenfiuf^ Folly with regard to his Wife, can possibly account for it. But to our Sorrow, Pride is a Weed the finest Soils are not free from, and if not watched and constantly rooted out, will overspread and choke everything valuable they would otherwise produce. Something like this is very common a amongst silly Men, but that Fools have Folly is not at all to be wondered at; and, if Accident joins them with Women of sense, tho’ their Conversation must be disagreeable, yet where nothing is expected, the Disappointment is not great; and where two People meet, who are both silly and proud, Compafiion is seldom more due to one Side than the other, for they must be reciprocal Plagues and Torments to one another for Life.
I
Now
12  XXX
N 6 w I am upon this Subject, I cann( conclude, without telling you a ridiculoi Instance of this kind, of a stupid Man,; whose house I dined about a Week ag( His Wife and Sister areboth very agreeabi Sensible Women, (how the former cam to be married to him, I cannot imagine these Was a great deal of Company; tb Lady of the House intended we should rt tyre to another Apartment, and leave th Men at the proper customary Time; but th Gentleman Showed Such a visible Uneafinei all the while we were in the Room, an looked at his Wife, if he did but imagine She was going to Speak, with So muc] ill humour, that She was quite out of countenance, and rose from the Table the mo ment the Cloth was removed.
About three days afterwards I me Lelius, who was one of the Company tha day, and amongst other things in difeourfe, afk’d him, if they were very merry after %ve left them. He laughed, and told me, that the Gentleman who was so impatient to be rid of us, the moment we were gone
out
 XX 123
out of the Room, looked very happy, drank one Bumper of Wine, Said, “Now the Women are gone, we may enjoy ourselves j" then fell fast asleep, and never spoke a word asterwards.
You have often heard me mention Le Uus as one of the pleasantest Companions in the world, and you may be Sure we must be merry on Such a Subject. We both concluded the Gentleman was only afraid, he should hear Something uttered by Women above his own Understanding, and, whilst he was in that Fear, could not Sleep in peace.
J am, c.
CYNTHIA.
( 124)
 XXI
Camilla to Cynthia at Bath.
Dear Cynthia, [From Londoi
IN return to your Account of Leaned and his Wife, and the sleepy Gentl man; I will send you the Story of a Lad; I whom my Father introduced me to. SI
has a long time been an Acquaintance ' his, and I was much pleased with her Coi versation; but I observed a Settled Melai choly in her Countenance, that made n fear some great Misfortune had befalh her in the course of her Life. My Hu band too observed the Same thing, ar desired me to endeavour to find out, if fi
hi
 XX 125
had any Sorrow that could be in our power io relieve.
You may be sure I took the first opportunity of obeying his Commands; and 3n the least Hint of my Curiosity, the Lady began in the Words following to relate the History of her Life.
“My Life has been a Blank, with the “exception of one Instance only. My In“ “passed in the common way: My “Parents had properly no Characteristics “at all; they married, because Chance threw them in each other’s way, and ‘‘ lived together, because it is customary. “They were not ill natur’d enough to ab“ “their Children, nor fond enough to “have any great Regard to their real In“ “or Happiness. We were taught to “read, write, dance, and play upon the ‘‘ Harpsichord, but entirely left to ourselves, “as to the Regulation of our Hearts, and forming our Sentiments.
When
12  XXXI
“When I was twelve Years old, n “Mother died : My Father married aga in a Twelvemonth; for he had been a “customed to that State of Life, and w “then of an Age which brought with some Infirmities; and chose to have “a Wife, at once a Companion and y nurse. The Lady was much of his ov ** dispofition j and consented to his Propi ‘‘ Sal, orfly because She could not find in h “heart to refuse the Offer of a Hufbanc and they led as quiet and stupid a Lif as the greatest philosophers, with j their Wisdom and Dignity, can poi out to their Disciples“
“Sister and I were sent to a Boan “ing school: for we were only thougl “troublesome at home, and whilst m Father thought us Safe and out of harm way, he was contented. My Mother Fortune, which was 5000 /. was to t divided between us; but my Sister d) “ing when She was Eighteen, the whol “Sum devolved on me; and, what ws « very remarkable, I was fully Satisfied wit 3 “
 XXI 127
it: I did not So much as wish for more, only from a Desire to give it others; for to communicate Happiness to my Fellow-creatures, was always the strongest Passion of my Mind.
“T HI s at first perhaps may Sound vain ' to Say, but, as you earnestly desired me ' to give you the History of my Life,
'I think it necessary, in order to make ' what I say intelligible, to let you into ^ my own dispofition; and to me it ap ‘ pears a more foolish Vanity to endeavour ‘ to hide what Good we believe ourselves ‘ pofiested of, only in hopes the Imagi ‘ nations of others may be warm enough to ‘ fet our Perfections in a fairer Light than ' they deserve, than to Speak honestly our ‘ own Thoughts of ourselves. If there is any Good in my Nature, I am very sensible I did not give it myself, and therefore humbly direct my Thanks for it to the great God that made me.
“My Temper was calm and casy> “which made it difficult to be ruffled, y because I had So perfect an Indifference
“in
- 0
12  XXXI
"in all Trifles which way I actecl, tl “had not my Love of pleasing my Cor panions influenced me to comply wi “their Inclinations, I should have be “very apt to have sunk into a State Indolence, from having no Motive “actuate me; and yet I had very flro “Pafiions: but then the Bent of all th( “Pafiions was Love; whether I was angor pleased. Love to the Person, w caused either the Anger or Pleasure me, was the foie Motive, by which n Mind was influenced.
With this Disposition, at Twen ‘‘ Years of Age, I wa married to the M in the World I really liked best:; n “because he happened to be my on Lover, nor (as is commonly the cafe) d “accidental Acquaintance make us fani “ourselves in love with each other: n( “he was a Man, whom, upon the mo mature Deliberation my Age and Exp rience was then capable ost I thoug “poltelsed of every Quality capable “rendering my Life happy. He also chc “me freely, for he had no Parents,
y confull
 XXI 129
consult, and my Father, provided I did nothing to bring any Disgrace upon myself or him, gave himself very little trouble about me. Besides, he had no reason to be against this Match; for, in point of Fortune, it was rather advantageous on my fide. This indeed weighed very little with me on any other Consideration, than as I thought it a Proof, that, as Love was the only Motive could induce him to make me his Choice, our Affections must be mutual, and our Love perfectly reciprocal.
‘‘could now the warmest Imagination paint a Prospect more fair, more likely to produce all the real solid Enjoyments of Life? Such Scenes of Harmony and Content possessed my Mind, as is almost impossible to describe. I in fancy run through all the Methods, in which I could Spend every Minute of my Time, and saw new pleasures arising every hour j I found the strong Motive of directing every Thought and Word, by an Endeavour and Hope of ' pleasing my Husband, was capable of vol. II I y warming
13  XXXI
warming and rouling me from that “tural Indolence which usually prev2 over me in all other things, and W( ‘‘ turn the most; trifling Actions of Life into solid Pleasures;; I foi “that pleasing Reflections must: be “Result of every Step I took.
‘‘if the Man I loved chose to in the Hurry of the World, I i “gined I should be there furnished ’ “continual new Observations, to re my Conversation agreeable to him. “Retirement was what he most.
lighted in, I fancid every Flower ir “Garden, every wild Beauty of the Fi in short, all the different Objects in ture, which at once give us an Ide “Variety and Harmony, would be b “many Pictures of my own Mind, w “the Result of every various Though “would be Content and Concord, anc y Isle the Productions of Nature, ' Reference to one great End only.
 XXI 131
“But how was I mistaken! All things turned out quite contrary to my ex pectation, and I have been miserable “from the Time, whence I hoped to hav’"e dated my Happiness; and from a Cause, which, till I have explained myself, you will imagine utterly impossible, and think me mad for men“ “it : namely, because my Huf ‘‘ band will not distinguish the Effects of that Passion, which is unsullied by Vanity, unmixed with anything but “itself, from such Effects as constantly at“ “Passions made up of very different ‘‘ Ingredients; and in forming which (not“ “any Appearance they may “make to short fighted Eyes) real Love “has the least Share. I cannot treat him • with Contempt, because 1 love him;
“and he takes that Treatment to arise“ “Contempt, which is the Effect of “Affection. He has numberless good “Qualities, but the Strength of his paf ssons causes him to be sometimes un “reasonable, and the Force of his imagi y nation helps him to endeavour to bend
I 2 y and S
13  XXXI
“and warp even Truth itself to his ow “Justification. But, as Truth and Erre“ “so very distinct, that it is impoffibl ever to make them join, I cannot he! “Suffering the utmost uneafiness, whe “I see him labouring and fatiguing hin “self, to drag the Solid Weight of Ret “Son, to meet the light Feather of D( “ceit; whilst it would be so much eafi( “for him to blow away the latter wit “the Smallest Breath, than in the lea “to bend the former, had he the Strengt “of ten thousand Hercules's.
“Wh E N E V E R he has a mind thus 1 “impose upon himself, he brings to m “Remembrance a Story I heard when was a Child, which, altho’ only told 1 “Children to amuse them, I think is “good Fable, and may be applied to tl “Treatment Mankind in general give the “own Minds.
“In this Story there is one Man, wl “is wise enough to dig ali Night in tl “Earth for daylight, fancying by th; “means he Shall obtain it j and anoth(
y wl
 XXL 133
“who drags a heavy Cow up to the Top “of a House, to eat a little withered
Grass, which he forgot there • was any " other means of coming at.
“Now, when I see the Man whom I “so much languish to find in every re“ “the greatest: Object: of Esteem, thus “vainly digging for daylight, in the “dark Gloom of the Earth; or drag“ “a great Cow up a House to eat “a little Grass; whilst others, from their “good nature and Benevolence, laugh, “and are pleased at his Mistake, I can“ “help, altho’ in the Softest Terms, “hinting, that with a little Patience, and “by turning his Eyes upwards, the broad “daylight of Truth would break in “upon him, and save him the trouble of “digging any longer in Mud and Dirt for “what is not there to be found; or that, “if he would send and cut down that Grass“ “at a distance appears to him so “fine and fit for Nourishment, he would “find it withered and good for nothing, “mere Trash not worth any pains.
I 3 “But
134- L E T T E R XXXL
But, if from a Knowledge of 1 Temper, and Fear of provoking 1 Anger, I cominand myself enough “say nothing, yet my very Looks deck “my Sentiments; and, altho’ ever sin “I have been his Wife, I have never on contradicted him, or refused to comj “with anything he was positive in, cannot believe Treachery towards a Hi band, in falsifying our real Though either by Words or Actions, is a Du “nor will the Sincerity of my Heart ' my Husband suffer me to be guilty it.
Thus, because I cannot appear tr to him, by being really false, he sane “my Affection for him is trifling; n; “sometimes his own Imagination mal him think I hate him; then he gro “out of humour, and that moment C “ftantly accuses me of being so. 1 leash Hint of Unkindness from him, “too much for me to bear, and fon times Tears will drop from my Ey y in spite of all the Refishance I (
y ma]
 XXL 135 “make. This he immediately calls Bhb “bering. Pride and affebation, words which too visibly prove (that at least for “the present) the Mind is not overbur “thened with Fondness for the Person to “whom they can be uttered.
“But, notwithstanding the number“ “Instances in which Women have by “Affectation made use of Crying, as a ‘‘ Method of making their Husbands com“ “with their unreasonable Humours;
“yet it is impossible to affect anything “which has never had any Existence in “Nature; and therefore all Affectation “must arise from there having been a Reality.
“All Passions have their peculiar Vents,
“and Tears are as properly the Vents of Tenderness, either indulged, or hurt “to a degree, which the Mind is not “able to contain without overflowing.
“This appears as well in circumpamccs.
of Joy as of Grief I own indeed,
‘'1 that Pride, when disappointed or on i 4
t3  XXXI
“posed, may exert its Rage the same ‘‘ way, and Tears may be called in ‘‘ when the Heart, bursting with iti own Dignity, makes the Tongue lofi “its Utterance. But in my Opinion th( Distinction is as visible between Rag( “bursting in this manner from the Eyes and those flowing Drops caused by; Heart warm’d with Affection and Ten “dernefs; as between those Storms where all the Elements Seem in contention and Thunder, Lightning and Hail ar ** rattling about our Ears, and thole kind ly refreshing Showers, that make fwee " Smells yet more Sweet, and allay th ^ Scorching Heat as shey fall.
** IF he has any the least Grief or Pair ** my Heart feels too much, to Suffc “my Words to find an Utterance. Th; “he mifinterprets, and would be muc better pleased with the Behaviour of an Woman, whose Words might flow i the greatest abundance, in Spite of a the sensations her Heart was capable o
tt
 XXI 137
“I have contrived all manner of ways of placing besore him these beautiful “Lines in the Art of Cookery;
“Friends al with cautious Temper, when. “sincere“
“flattering Impudence is void of “Care :
So at an Irish Funeral appears “A Train of Drabs with mercenary “Tears;
“Who, wringing of their Hands, with “hideous Moan,
“iknow not his itame, for whom they “seem to groan :
“whil/l real Grief with filent Steps proceeds,
“And Love unfeigned with inward Faff fion bleeds.
“But in vain; for, blinded by his own “Love of Flattery, I cannot engage him ‘‘ to make she proper Application.
“I
13  XXXI
“I Am very sensible many Women, II “married to my Husband, would be ex tremely happy; for, as it is the Nature of Vanity, when Satisfied, largely to re turn the Compliment to the person whe “gratifies it; and he cannot have an Af“ “that is not Supported by Somt Oblations offered to his Pride; they, b) “not caring whether his Aims were righi ‘‘ or wrong, and Submitting to treat him wist “real Contempt, and Seeming Approba“ “would be indulged in return ever “to Adoration, which they would im “mediately place to the account of theii ‘‘ own Merit: And thus both Parties “would be pleased, in reciprocally Seed“ “each other’s real Vanity, and fan ‘‘ ci Affection.
“But Love like mine cannot owe it: “Gratification to anything but Love it “self, and must: dare to think the Object“ “it may be treated like a reasonabh Creature, without Fear of offending. “A contrary Behaviour, however well
y i
 XXI 139
“it might be received, mufti think, y to a Person really in love, produce “perpetual Torment and Perturbation of “Mind.
“Most part of the Time we lived “together, we spent in the Country, where, “instead of those delightful Scenes which “I told you I had at first pictured to “myself, everything dark and gloomy “seemed to resemble my Fate. All “the beautiful Prospects in Nature, only “brought to my Remembrance, that “the fair Prospects I once had of Hap“ “were now vanistied into no y thing.
“But I will trouble you no longer, “with the many Reflections and Sensations“ “my own Mind; for Day after Day “passed, and the same Wish of Happiness, and the same Impossibility of finding it, “ran through the whole Seven Years we “lived together.
“At
14  XXXI
“At length my Husband, wearied o “with a Passion ungratified (for my D “position was as unsatisfactory to him, “his was to me) sought his Relief,
“flying to another Woman, who, by fire“ “with .him, could give hi “much greater Happiness: For, as Fit “tery, which is another Word for Co “tempt, can never be produced by u feigned Love, and yet every Affectii “mixed with Vanity, must require Fit “tery to be thoroughly Satisfied, it is i “wonder we could not be happy in ea( “other.
“Experience alone has taught n “this; and I should not have endeavou “ed to relate sensations which I cann “fully express, had not your manner “living with your Husband convinced m ‘‘ that you will thoroughly understand me,
I WILL L not take up your time, in n “counting any Particulars concerning oi y Separation. We parted at his Request
“an(
 XXI 141
‘ and whatever Torments it gave me at first. Time has in some measure abated them; and I now think it better to know the Impossibility of being happy, ‘ than to be continually tossed between ‘‘ Hopes and Fears. I love him yet, and take every opportunity of inquiring after his Health and Welfare; and, as I have never upbraided him for leaving me, think he cannot hate me; and, by ‘ the Character I hear of the Lady who “lives with him, I have still Some glim mering Hopes, that his Eyes will be Sometime opened, and he will return my Love.
"Thus, Madam, I have complied ‘ with your Request, in telling you the ‘ History of a Life, in which the Inci ‘ dents are So few, that I wonder how I ‘ could be so long in relating it; but what has for many Years been always upper most in our Thoughts, we "are apt to ‘ expatiate on; and forget, whilst we are indulging our own Imaginations, how ‘ tiresome we may be to others."
Thus
14  XXXI
Thus the Lady finished her Story, thought there was fornething very art: and sincere in her representing of her o' Sensations on all occasions. I have a gr Compassion for her, as I am convin( Cynthia will also have, when she reads 1 Story.
I am. See.
CAMILL
( h3)
 XXII Cynthia to Camilla at London.
Dear Camilla, [From Bath.
IH A V E a very great Compassion for the Lady, whose Story you sent me, and can perfectly understand what She must feel, in living seven Years with a Man she loved; who, blinded by his own Passions, would not understand her real Character, nor suffer her to treat him as a reasonable Creature. Had not I been so happy, as to meet with your Brother, this might very likely have been my own Fate; and the Idea of it is so horrible, that I think it is the only Misfortune in life, which it would have been impossible to have supported.
Was
14  XXXII
Was my Valentine capable of treatini the meanest Creature in the vrorld in Manner I could not justify in my own Mind his indulging me even to Adoration, woul make me no Amends; nay, on the con trary, I stiould be only the more unhappy for the Racer, who is distanced within Sight and almost within Reach of the Goal feels a great deal more uneafiness than he who, being thrown out at first, immediately despairs, and leaves the Race.
What the Lady Says of tenderness, is, in my opinion, So very true, that th( palpable Mistake most Men lie under ir confounding it with Pride, is an evideni Proof to me, that they setup their Passions for Judges in a Cafe, where reasor alone can distinguish; and, if People would give themselves leave to See clearly but foi a minute, and be honest enough to Speali the Truth, we should hear many a person own it, and Say; " I always argue with my“ “thus: — Pride is a bad Passion, and “tenderness a good one; — but, I am ‘‘ So perfect a Creature, and So constantly
y in
 XXII 145
‘ in the right, that, whatever hurts me,
‘ must: be a Fault in another; and there ‘ fore, that Behaviour in a Woman, with ‘ which I am displeased, must arise from ‘ Pride, a Vice my own Mind is totally ‘ free from, and not from Tenderness, a ‘ Virtue I have so large a share of: —
‘ As indeed what Virtue is there, which ‘ I do not possess in the highest; Degree?
N o w a Man, who has an Imagination warm enough thus to raise a Phantom of lis own Goodness, and then to embrace it ls a Reality, must: look with Hatred or [Contempt on every one, who cannot be equally deceived with himself. But it is i melancholy Consideration to me to find, low very difficult it is to come at happi less, when a Woman, who married the Man she really loved, and where she had : he greatest: Reason to believe her hus 3and’s Love equal’d hers, could be mife •able; which is, I think, the Cafe of the Lady, of whom your last: brought me an account. Tho’ I am like her in some Hopes, that Time will make him see the Truth; if he has a strong Understanding, vol. IL K I
y
146 L E T T E R xxxiii
am certain, he will not for ever cont nue in such an Error, as to take Pride f( Love; for a Man of Sense can no more 1 at home in a fool’s Paradise, than a Bros dingnagmn can live in a Lilliputian Palaci
I Am not at all surprised at the Coi fusion in most: Families, arising from pn pofierous Matches; for, notwithstanding is generally believed, that where there no Force from Parents, nor any Views Fortune, Women marry the Men tj^i like, yet there is nothing so uncommor for Vanity, in some Shape or other, is t Motive that induces most of them to chu their Husbands.
I Have often diverted myself with tl Thought, how vastly things would be r versed, had one the Possession of that Gla So often wish’d for, which Should be so tri as to represent things as they really are; ai if in one Room were met together Nur bers of Men and Women, married and u married, of all Stations and Degrees, whe the Men Should sit in Form, as Ladies at a Ball, and the Women should
chusei
 XXII 147
chusers: Vanity Should be for once quite banished the Room, and every one obliged .to act from the Dictates of her own Heart. How many Ladies would be ready to die for Grief, to find themselves thus forced to appear without Disguise
How surprising would it be to see iiau ^ iilla, instead of walking with that stately Pace and dignified Air, which she thinks her present hashand’s Character in Life requires in his wife’s Behaviour, capering up to a d(ancing master, and preferring a Pair of red heel’d Shoes, to all the agreeable Conversation in the world?
In what amazement must Sctpto stand to see on a sudden his Wife, his fond Wife, break from his Arms abruptly, and fly to a Raree show Man, who is crying at the Bottom of the Room, “Now, you shall she what you shall feeand producing in Miniature in his Box, all the Kings and Queens of Europe, dressed in Tinsel and mock fincry?
IC 2 Ho w
148 L E T T E R xxxlt.
How would poor Lelius stare, to sint all the fancied Friendship, which he ima gined Leila had for so many Years daib improved, by his kind Indulgence to her in a moment fwallowfed up by a Passioi for a Beau? and to see her Eyes and Hear entagled by a laced Coat on the Back 0 a Coxcomb, who, far from returning he Love, would play Tricks, and expose he to all Companies by impertinent Sneers and ridiculous affected Witticisms??
many Men would find themselves left unmarried, by the sudden Appearano of Lothario; I say Lothario, a Man, ' who by the Veil of Gaiety and Gallantry, conceals the basest Heart, and most villainou Designs?? the apparent Object 0 Admiration, and the real Object of Hatrei and Contempt; Lothario, who counts hi Hours, by the Mischief he has done, am thinks, if he was innocent one Day fron injuring another, it would be too great s Blank in his aslive sprightly Life; Lothario, who has Parts enough to be agreeabi to the Injudicious, but not half enough ti
Southeast
 XXII 149
see the pleasure of doing Good: yet, a least twenty Ladies (in this my fancied Scene) would leave their Husbands on the first View of this desirable Creature; and,. rather than quit him again, would be contented tp share So valuable. So enlarged a Heart amongst thern.
IN short, ovid.s Imagination in his Metamorphoses never made more unaccountar ble Changes, than would appear thro’ Such a tell truth Mirror: Men would be in one moment unmarried from Women, who, they fancied, would have broke their Hearts to have parted from them, and married again the next to others, that shey had never the least notion were even capable of loving them : and, I am afraidj some Men of sense, who are now most contended for, would on a sudden find great difficulty in meeting with any Wise at all. But suffer me to carry on this Fancy a little farther, and let me suppose all the Company obliged to answer stncerely all the Questions I put to them, and faithfully to tell nig how they came to be married.
K 3 An
i  XXII
And now methinks I hear Haiitilla fa’ Since an. invincible Power obliges n both to speak and act stncerely, I mi “tell you, that I married my Hushai for no other Reason, but because I sigh and languisii’d to be thought wise; ai V was wise enough to imagine, that t “Reputation of his Understanding woul, “on my becoming his Wife, immediate
devolve on me; and thus, without ai Pains or Alteration in myself, I shoii ‘‘ attain the Character I most: wished f( “But my Plypocrify has cost: me very dea “for the continual Restraint I have be “forced to put on my feist in pretend! “to like all the Company, and every w “of spending my Time, which was “reality disagreeable to me, together wi “finding the Impossibility of passing j “what I wished, made me very miferab and turned all my natural good humc into Sourness, and Hatred of eve ‘‘ thing round me, for fear they shot “not think me to have Underfandt ‘‘ enough. But I am now perfectly hap y«^ith my dear Dancing mailer, my tr
sta]
 XXII 151
and natural Taste, and would not part with him for ail the World." Here methinks I see her take her Love by the Hand, and caper off with him, without waiting for a Reply,
On the farne question’s being put to Sdpio's Lady, I seem to hear her making this Answer: : never had any real Piea “sure in my Life, but what came in at “my Eyes, and my chief Delight was “ever placed in Sights and Shows; but “stnce I have been a Woman, for fear cf “being laughed at, I have always con“ “my Inclinations that way, and affected to delight in nothing but Books,
“and those too of the graver sort; and I ‘‘ have locked myself up many a time irj “my Closet, looking at my Fans and “sorting out Ribbons, under the pretence “of being eager to read out some new Book. “which I have borrowed, and have in“ “sent home untouched, except ssightly “turning the Leaves over, to make the “appearance of having read it fiow “ever, the Character this Deceit got me of ‘‘ Gravity and Discretion, and my abstaining II 4 from
15  XXXII
“from public Places (where my He “vas always made Scipio choose me : “his Wife; and I accepted of him, I “cause I thought his Station would foi me into a Public Life apparently agai “my Will. But this did not do; a “Scipid'% Behaviour, I cannot tell w “or wherefore (for he was a very ind “gent good Husband) was so difgustful “me, that I could never be easy un the forced Fondnest I put on for hii “and I am now happier in the n “Choice I have made, than ever I was - my Life.”
After this Speech, methinks I her beckoning to her Raree show M who with some reluctance compl having first made her take up his Be grumbling out in a vulgar Tone, That knows 710 reason for having a Wife, bui be waited on, Scipio stands as one ama: at the long Deception he has lain unt gnd turns with due Contempt from fuc Wife to a Lady who stands ready to recc him with real Love, founded on the Knc ledge of his Merit.
A
 XXII I s3
And next I fancy that I hear Lelia der daring, that “She had long been Secretly ‘‘ in love with the jman, the Beau, the “Coxcomb, for whom she now, for the
first time, had the courage to own her ‘‘ Love; and that she married Lelius for “no other reason, but because he made “love to her very affiduousty for two “Months; during which time, she found “that she was so pleased with herself, ‘‘ that she fancied that she was pleased“ “him : for she could not but own, “that she was not quite unhappy at hearing “her own Charms continually resounding“ “her Ears." And now I see her Bear making her lead him up the Room, that all the Company may observe her Fondness for him.
T o describe the Noise and Confusion that must ensue upon the Claims of Lothario's twenty Wives at once and all their Reasons for such a judicious Choice, is more than I will undertake; and it would indeed be endless to fet down the several different Answers which I could imagine I
should
154-  XXII
Should receive from this fancied promiscuo Company of Wives. Some, I doubt n( would tell me, that they married becai they were asked;; because th wanted to take place of their Companior and found that married Women met wi most; respect; others, because they wante Something to govern, not quite so refracto: as themselves, and thought a Husband ai Children the best Subjects; the one to e; creife their Talents on, by managing hi with Art, and the others as Objects i their Power.
Was I to put the same Questions I the Men, and ash them hpw they came t marry the Women who had thus left then I Should hear them all confess, that the were drawn in by a liking to their Wiv( persons, to think them the Objects of the Esteem; and that their Imagination So bestowed on them every good Qualit which it was now visible they were de fective in : And as to Love, I believe mol Men (like my Lord Foppington) who b; Flattery, Deceit, or any other means, cai 'obtain a woman’s Person, make no doubt
0
 XXII 155 or elfe never give themselves the least Concern, about her Heart.
I Am afraid you will be tired with all these Whims; but as you may look on my Remarks as the Effects only of Leisure and Happiness, which makes the Fancy rove through various odd Scenes, they may Serve for Subjects of Mirth. If indeed they had any Foundation in Nature, if such things ever really happened, and we could think what I have here said was any Picture pf human Life j I cannot but say it would turn the Mirth into Melancholy, and could be the Subject of Ridicule to none, but those who are like a Man I have heard ost who was never Seen to laugh but once in his Life, and that was, when he Saw an pther Man fall from a house, and break his Neck.
I am. See.
CYNTHIA.
it., ¦
A
1
()
 xxiit.
Camilla to Cynthia at Batl
Cynthia, [fromlom
Your whims, as you are please call them, gave me great En tainment; nay, I may say, that when give st^eifure and Happinefe as the Rea for them, that Consideration brought the highest: Pleasure imaginable.
I Read your Letter to my Husha He quite grieved at Some part of it, e cially where So many Ladies are in with Lothario : I was forced to put hii mind continually, that it was only a S( of Imagination, to keep him from b melancholy.
 xxili. 157
A Lady of my Acquaintance, whose Fame is Berinthia, sent me the following shvel • and as I am always pleased with rery Opportunity of amusing dear Cynthia, hope it will have the desired Effect
A novel.
'DE L IN DA was born of a gentleman’s Family, and in her earliest: Jn^ incy educated as became a young Girl of 'ortune; but her Parents both dying in he thirteenth Year of her Age, Sste was fft in those tender Years, after having been litherto too tenderly brought up, to the rild World, without any means of sup )ort; for her Father and Mother had for. long time lived in a manner they could iot' Support; and made it their only view 0 conceal their Poverty, instead of pru lently endeavouring to remove it: by which neans they kindly left this so much dreaded discovery of their penurious Circumstances o break out with all its Weight and hor or, when the poor Belinda, their only dear i^hild, must feel alone its Burden. And
thus
15  XXXIII
thus in the midst of her unaffected fiiction for the Loss of her Parents, their merciless Creditors seize on thing they died possessed of.
BELINDA Heart, young as then was, felt her first Loss too strongly let any outward Circumstances, for the \ sent, add much to her inward Grief. Could easily dispense with the Delicacy had been used to be treated with; for the first Agonies of her Sorrow, She ’ very careless of what became of her.
H OWE VER, this poor young Create had an Aunt by the father’s fide, who I that Compafiion for her which She wan ' for herfelst and took her into her P
tection: And although her Situation \ Such, that she could by no means prop( to provide for her in the manner She wish yet She was resolved to use her utmost E deavours to preserve her from the deploral Fate that generally attends Youth andbeai when in distress. And in order to coi pafs this her laudable Design, she treat the young Belinda in Such a manner, tl
notwit
 XXIII 159
lotwithstanding the Difference of their f^ges. She never scrupled to own to her she Dictates of her Heart.
When Belinda was fifteen, her Youth m.d. Beauty gained her many Admirers; but shch was the Force of her Education, joined to her own natural good Disposition, that she looked on Treachery with so great a Detestation, that she fixed a Resolution, shat no Offers, though ever so advantageous, should tempt her to give her Hand, without the Goncurrence of her Heart.
Her Heart had neither Levity enough to like every Man who came in her way by accident, only becaufo he complimented her; nor did her Head contain Folly enough to fancy every time she was amused, that she was in love. She judged rightly, that she might be very much pleased with the Gaiety of a Ball, where everything Seems contrived to raise and delight the Imagination, without being in love with her Partner; and knew the Qualifications requisite to make her happy, and gain Esteem too well, to let a temporary Gomplaifance and Good
Humour
io L E T T E R XXXIII
Humour make her immediately form ai Schemes of being totally in a man’s pow for Life. She spoke her Sentiments to h Aunt on all Occasions freely, and witho reserve, who encouraged and applaud' her for so doing:
BELINDA lived on happily wi her good Friend, till She was twenty Ye: of age; when, happening to dance o Night at a neighbour’s House with a you Gentleman who was jufi: returned from Travels, She was so much pleased w him, she could think of nothing elfe she had seen him again. Accident thr her often in his way; and she could 1 guard herself from being Seized with ( of those violent Pafiions of Love that p fesses the whole Mind, and leaves no roi for any other Object; At first: she gr pensive and melancholy, and was so chan| in her whole manner, that She was har the same Woman. Her Aunt, who kn a great deal of the World, and was tisfied that, as She continued her Go nefs to her, no Sudden Misfortune had fallen her, Soon guested the cause of i
Char
L E T T E R XXXIII ii
Change, and by persuafions prevailed on her not to begin now to conceal herthoughts from her.
BELINDA at first was unwilling to discover her Passion, even to her kind pro tectressnot that She was afraid to let her know her most inmost Thought: in reality She Was astiamed to disclose it. But how was this good Woman grieved, when Belinda named Philander as the Object of her Love! for She knew he was married, whilst he was abroad, to a youiig Lady with whom he was very much in love However, she thought proper not to conceal from Belitida., that her Lover was married, as she must know it in the end, and in the mean time might, by indulging it, increase her Passion. When Belinda heard that her first Affection must be disappointed, she could not help sighing, and being grieved at her hard Fate, that she Should fix her Heart, though un solicited, on the Man whole Honour and Duty forbade him to return her Love; and at the same time found it impossible to have the least Inclination for any amongst the Number of those who pursued her V o L II L with
i6  XXXIIL
with the utmost Astlduity and Endeavou to please her.
But such was the Goodness of hi Heart, that She resolved, whatever it co her. Philander stiould be no Sufferer t her Pastion; and she took such uncoinrnc chimerical Fancies into her head, as wou scarcely be believed by the generality those who are in love. For stie often fai that when Love made a Woman act as She hated, and to contrive by all manner means and cunning Tricks to undo ai ruin the Man on whom She placed her k Section, She could not wonder if Hatn was returned for such Love.
PHILANDER too had strange Whir fies in his Brain; for though Beliftda's Lo' was too apparent for him to be ignorant it, yet he never endeavoured to take a vantage of her Pastion, to betray her Misery; nor, on the other hand, won he Shock her, by rudely slighting her; t behaved in everything in the manner thought would make her most easy, und that most disagreeable Circumstance of bei
OV(
 XXIII 163;
verwhelmed with a Passion she had no Lopes of gratifying.
PHIL AN DER did not stay long in England; but as Soon as he had fettled some lufinefs for which he came over, he went 3 his beloved Wife, and left poor Belinda 0 sigh at his Absence, though at the same ime She applauded his Behaviour. He tay’d five Years abroad, all which time Belinda retained her Love; and. yet never nee wished the Object of it might be poi 3ned or massacred, or come by any other ach slight Misfortune, although he could iot return it.
PHI LANDER's Father was very bnd of him during his mother’s lifetime;; she died whilst he was abroad; and ler Husband, although he was at first very nuch concerned for her Loss, did not long emain a Widower, but married a young i^ady, of whose Beauty he became en imoured at first sight, and whose want of fortune made her not inflexible to his ad ireffes.
L 2 This
16  XXXIII
This Lady's Gratitude to her Hushai for generousty forgetting all mercena Views for her Sake railed in her Such a pr digious Fondneis towards him, that I could not bear to Share either his Affecti< or his Fortune with his Son; but contfifyi a Method of ingtosting all the former, ai Spending the latter,, to Supporthis Dignk; So that, when hedied^ he lest his Cirem stances in Such a Situation, that poor Pi lander was reduced to the utnaost Neeessi He immediately brought his Wife toeii landy to endeavour to make the best of t very little that was left.
Near about the time that Philam lost his Father, Belinda wa deprived of 1 Aunt, who left her everything she V worth, amounting in all to upwards eight thousand Sounds; for since she tc Belinda to live with her, a Relation f lest her a considerable Sum, which enab her to provide So handsomely for her Nei She heard of Philander Misfortunes, t yet was so strangely fanciful, that alt her Rival was involved in her Hushan
mise
 XXIII 165
Vlifery, yet was the romantic Belinda So far from rejoicing at it, that She employed ill her Thoughts how she could relieve hem: Nay, So very far did she carry thefo )dd Notions of her’s, that she actually con rived out of her own Fortune to Support hem, whilst they themselves were ignorant rom whence came their continual Supply • ind she was mad enough to part with what vas her own to the Man she loved, even sho le shared it with another Woman.
This lasted for three Years, when phi under lost his Wife. He was at first al nost inconsolable; for he had lived with ler in the utmost Fondness; and no won ler he should regret Such a Woman, for he truly deserved his Esteem. At length, rhyme and philosophy calmed his Mind, .nd he began to be tolerably easy, when )y an accident he difeovered whence had lowed all his Support since his Father's, 3eath. Astonished and confounded with Belinda's Goodness, his first Thought was mmediately to throw himself at her Feet, lord declare himself her Lover; but then ie apprehended that it would be an ill Re l 3 turn
i6  XXXIII
turn for all her Generosity, to desire her tc marry a Beggar. Then again, as he knew her Love for him, he imagined that she by being his Wife, would complete he Happiness, and consequently, that he ough to make that his first Consideration. Th Result of these Reflections occasioned hi writing her the following Letter.
A LET rfrompniha^di]
B E L I N D A..
Madam,
T F. it was in the power of Words t “A express what my Heart feels .for you Volumes would not contain what I shoul “then have tp write; but as, on the cor “trary, the various Sensations that at prt “sent overwhelm rny Mind are inexprei “fible, I find myself at a loss to ej “plain how greatly your Goodness b affected me. Was I to say your Sui prising Generosity has inspired me wit “the warmest Gratitude, the Expressio ** would be too cold _ to reach half m “Meaning. On the other hand, when
y ai
LET TER XXXIII 167
am prompted by Inclination to talk rap turoully of Love, I am checked by the " Consideration, that in my present un “happy Situation, it would be Ingratitude “even to wish you to sacrifice to me more “than you have already done; and I dare not think on it. But then I cannot help entertaining some hopes, that my Silence on this Head would be preventing your own Happiness. The moment this Thought occurs to my perplexed imagi nation, I dare not be silent, Inform me how to act, that I may appear neither ‘ insensible of your Goodness, nor too ‘¦ much encouraged by it. Oh, Belinda!
‘ remember how pure and untainted with ^ Art your ovrn Mind is, and then you ¦ cannot be at a loss to knov/ my Thoughts ^ of you, although I am afraid to speak ^ Should it be in the power of ‘ my future Life to contribute to render ‘ yours happy, with what assiduous Care ‘ Should every Moment be employed iri ^ endeavouring to approve my Gratitude ^ and Love. Give me leave at least to ‘ wait on you, that I may have the plea ‘ sure (which I think one of the greatest L 4 “this
i6  XXXIII
“this World can afford) of beholding t Object to whom I am under those it “mense Obligations, which my Heart ra“ “exult and rejoice iru
“Let me beg you, ^ Belinda to fe; “me an imtncdiate answer,, as I Ihallw “with impatience till I can have the k “piness of feeing you: And believe ir “that whatever you determine, I sh breathe no longer than I am
y. * Imr faithful
PHILANDER
When beiu^^ received this Letti She read it ov^ several times with such perturbation of Mind, that it, was for time before she could calm, her Thougl enough to make room, for Reflection; a: then so ftrangely whimstcal was her Hea that she .was. more perplexed than ev( Here was a plain Offer of Marriage fro Bhilattfir y and yet so unaccountable ye her Whims, that she thought it pojjible
I
 XXIII 169
be unhappy, even though married to the Man with whom She was in love.
She did not doubt of philaudep% Sincerity; for her Esteem for him had been long fixed. To Speak the truth, it was twinborn with her Love. One Hour gave them birth; and their very Existence depended on each other’s Destiny. Beliridds dispofition could not give her leave once to suspect: her little Fortune could be the Motive of his Addrestes; besides, he might have shared in that, without any Surther Engagement. But her own Thoughts in the Sollowing Letter will best Speak her Sentiments.
B E L I N D Ah ANSWER to Philander
SIR,
“T Know not by what Accident you dis “A covered that I have long corresponded with you in Secret; but, since it is re ‘‘ vealed, I am not ashamed to own, shat “all the pleasure I have enjoyed since first I became acquainted with your Worth,
“has
17  XXXIII
has been ovring either to the hearing o: ‘‘ or the having it in my power to contribute to your Welfare. The exertin “that trifling and inconsiderable Power“ “you are so good as to say it de “serves your Gratitude, has given me f “much pleasure, that I can with trus “affirm, I obliged myself much more tha: “it was possible to oblige another. I com “plied with my Inclination and if m; “Love for you had been of that kind a to make me rejoice in your Misfortune? “because you was engaged to live with; “Woman who deserved your Esteem “perhaps I might have followed the com “mon Method in such Cafes, and have fpen “my whole time in contriving to increali your Misery. But the Object of Phi“ “Pleasure could never be hatefu to Belhidaf'
“Perhaps it may appear very odd that I talk thus freely of my Love, whils “you know it was gained without an) “Solicitation on your stde. But I hate all “Disguise: : as I am certain you must have known it from our first Ac“ “
 XXIII 171
quaintance, your Knowledge of it is fa miliar to my Thoughts, and very unlike “a new Discovery: though the refined “manner in which you mention it, is to “me the greatest Obligation, as it justifies “my Choice to my own Mind, and in some sort makes me amends for having been so easily won; and gives me leave ‘‘ to flatter myself, my Passion would not have been unconquerable, if my judge ment had not approved it.
“But notwithstanding I thus openly avow my Love, yet have I Fears which V alarm me, when I think of indulging it.
Every Woman who marries, if she does “not meet with a very great Reprobate, “does not put herself wholly in her huf band’s Power; for few Men care by a very brutal Behaviour to abandon themselves to the Censure of the World, and “be despised by all Mankind: And when “a Man is careful enough even of his Re“ “to choose living decently with “his Wife, if stie is not fond of him, she“ “be very miserable: but what Tongue can describe the Agonies that
y Heart
17  XXXIII
“Heart must suffer, whish is so fenfibl; “affected with every Word or Look C “her hufband’s, that her Happiness o ‘‘ Misery depends upon it, when she i ‘‘ treated at besf with cold Indifference “and a Carelessness which the beft naturei “Man in the World cannot avoid, where “his Heart is not engaged? The readini “all the wise Lessons that were eve “wrote, against putting your Happind into the Power of another, will aval “but little; for Pastion deals not II “cunning; and when the Mind is tonne and rent with distracting Passions what does it avail to say it wouli be better not to feel the Torment?
“know all the Marks of Love too well “to be deceived, and am fenstble, tha “the Lover pities in his Mistress even fan “cied Misfortunes and imaginary griess “Nothing is too trifling to give him Plea “Sure or Pain; nor is anything of I “much consequence, but he can imagine “it a Trifle, when weighed with her Con tent and happiness. ”
3 " Bu'
 XXII 173
“But pardon me, philmi&r j I do not ^ mean that I have the least Distrust of “your hbnouft or Sincerity: but I know ‘‘ generous Minds, when they do but fancy “themselves obligedi, are very apt to take the Warmth of Gratitude for love. Should “this be the Cafe, you will make both “me and yourself miserable; for nothing “but your whole Heart can content me. “You may love invohintarily some Object naore adapted to your own natural Inclina“ “; and then I must be your Burden: And Should your Goodness go far enough to ** make you never endeavour to gratify that “Love, still I must look on my unfor “tunate Pastion as the Cause of yours and my own Unhappiness; and Words can“ “paint what I then must fusthr. There“ “I conjure you, examine your own Heart with the utmost Circumfpecticn “before you engage farther in an Affair “on which depends your own Happiness, y as well as that of your
y BELINDAS
17  XXXIII
BELINDA formed in her Mind an other Picture opposite to that of Miferj which Ihe had drawn in her Letter; i which she indulged herself in the Thought of the great Happiness of her future lise should philandep^ Love be equal with he own; and thesc two Pictures placed them selves by turns before her Imagination When she saw her Lover, that of Happiness was present; when he was absent Reflection would sometimes tease her wit! producing the other to her Fancy. how' ever, she had not conversed with Philandsi very often, before all Ideas of the Poffibilit) of Misery with him were so entirely banished her Thoughts, that she confentec to depend for the rest of her Life intirelj on him for her Happiness.
But Belinda carried on her romanticii Notions even after she was married; foi she was more fearful of losing Philander (that is, loling his Affection) now than ' before: while he, on the other hand, by
the Sincerity of his Love and the Good nature of his Behaviour, made it the
buiiness
 XXIII ly;
lufinefs of his Life to banish all Fears from ler Bosom, and let nothing but Joy inhabit here.
PHILANDER had two Children by lis former Wife, whom Belinda treated vith the same Tenderness as if they had )een her own; and when she became her elf a Mother, if her Heart knew any dif erence, the Children, by her Behaviour, : old never perceive it; and by this Edu: ation they were so little used to distinguish between Own brothers and brothers in iaw, that they were united in Love; and the Happiness of the whole Family were centred in each other: And this Union was every day increased, till they became the Admiration of all, whose Good fortune it was to be of their Acquaintance, and they might properly be styled The Family of Love.
BERINTHIA, when she lent me this Novel, said she only desired me to read it to laugh at it j for that she thought the designed Heroine of it was of so very unnatural
17  XXXIII
naturd st Character, that She looked on to be a Monster in Nature. 1 behold! in a very different Light, and desire] ] be So good to Send me your Qpin on the Subject,
1 am, c.
CAMILL
( 07)
 xxlv. >nthia to Camilla at London.
Camilla, [Fro;;; Bath.
[A M obliged to you, for making my Amusement your first: Consideration on very Occasion, and thank you for your fovel 5 and, as you desire my Opinion of t, I shall speak my Thoughts freely, as I •iways doj 'when I am conversing with Camilla.
I Admire and love Philander: his Behaviour to Belinda from the first:, de erves the utmost Approbation. No co pette in the midst of her monkey Tricks, : an be half so contemptible, as a Man vol. IL M who
1^8 L E T T E R XXXIV
who endeavours to turn into Ridicule the Woman he plainly perceives likes him. Had Belinda met with a Coxcomb, how many pretty Inventions would he have j found to have worked her Passions, in order to have made her contemptible.
I Remember my being at a Ball when I was very young, where I saw a Scene between a Coxcomb and his Partner
J
which fpr a long time made me very uneasy. That Celia (for that was the lady’s Name) liked her Spark, I really believe; and his Intentions to put her out of countenance, and to show the Company that she liked him, are almost incredible : he contrived Methods of continually raistng in her the uneasy sensation of Shame, and, with an impertinent Stare, he would often iuddenly ask her, why she blush’d? This, tho’ she was as pale as Death before, always made her as red as Scarlet: What Triumph was this to a Man that he had made a Woman blush? Then, when by her Confusion her Voice faltered, and she found a Difficulty to pronounce her Words; ‘‘ Oh! undoubtedly, says he. Ladies must
“lisp
/
Er T T E R XXXIV 179. “lisp !¦ -- ’tis' pretty to talk like the Vulgar !What would be the Signification “of Bestuty^ unless Affectation was allow“ “with it!'
CELIA Was naturally'a Sprightly Sensible Woman, and could very easily have made ten Such Coxcombs the Jest of the Company, had not Shame taken from her the Powct of Utterance : however at last, provoked' with his usage, and enraged with his Impertinence, She recollected her Scattered Thoughts, and Suddenly led this triumphal Conqueror _ to a great peer glass at the lower End of the Room, and asked him; when he Saw his own Figure, whether he could wonder at any woman’s liking hirh: altho’ he had been endeavouring all the Evening to make a Jest of her for it, yetfhe hoped, on the Consideration how impossible it must be to behold him without loving him, that for the future he would not use so many Endeavours to make her ridiculous for it.
The Gentleman was So struck with this sudden Turn, that he could not com m 2 mand
io L E T TER XXXIV
mand his Temper enough, to make her any reasonable Answer, but hammered out two or three Words (undoubtedly very kind ones) in so low a Voice, that he could not be heard. The whole Companj immdediately took the Design, joined wist Celia in her just Revenge, and all at once burst into a horfe laugh in his Face: Ont of the Company whispering him, wha Sorceries he had made use of, to bewitcl Celia? — Another softly telling him, hi ought to be hang’d for a Wizard; witl much more Raillery of the like kind which the Fear of offending Celia confinei to Whispers. This so incensed him, tha ready to burst with Spite and Anger, am unable to bear being So justly exposed a the Object of Contempt, he left th Room, and the next day departed fror the Town; I hope as much cured of h: Wit, as Celia was of her Love.
I W A s much pleased, that Celia ha Resolution enough to turn the Scorn an Ridicule on the Person who so justly d(
serve
let T E R XXXIV ii
Served it, and not to let Such a trifling vain Coxcomb triumph over her.
H ow unlike was this silly low Fellow to your Philander, whose Gratitude Seems to equal Belinda's Generosity; and yet I confess, I do not blame Belinda for her Fears, for that Picture of Misery She draws in her Letter, fills me with Horror. It is a bold Adventure to give another such full Power over us; which is always the Consequence, when we live with a Person, whose every Word and Look can diffract the Soul, and rent the Heart asunder.
I See nothing unnatural in belindv^ Character, tho’ I am afraid it is a very uncommon one; but at the same time think it far from being monstrous ^ and, instead of wondering that there are some few Instances of the like Behaviour, I am only amazed, that they are not more frequent: For to me nothing appears more unreasonable, than that a Woman should desire to tear out a man’s Eyes, only because he cannot give her his Heart.
M 3 'Tis
i82 L E T TER XXXIV
'Tis true, Drufilla used all the She was mistress of, to marry an old Man she hated, only tp bring an Heir to his Estate, to exclude a Nephew from it, because She loved this his Nephew, and he was pre engaged to another Woman, who loved and esteemed him.
P RISC ILL A in love with het Coustn, and because he could not marry her, entered into a long Lawsuit with him, and hunted him thro’ all the Forms of the several Courts of Justice j till She was ruin t ed with Pleasure, in order to involve the Man She loved iri the farne Ruin with her.
The mild and gentle sacharifj'a, struck at first sight with the Beauty of a married Man, and thinking it impossible to live without him, after She had made use ip vain oi every Art she was mistress of, to engage him, at last took a i?oble resolution to fet his House on fire, and burn him in his Bed (and all this, only because she lovea him) which heroic Design she would actm
ally
 XXIV 183
ally have executed, had she not been prevented by a mere Accident.
But Instances of this sort of Love are So numerous, that we hardly live a day, without hearing Some new Stories of this kind. If an Inhabitant from any other World, where reason Swayed, and Fallacy had no power, was to make us a Visit, and be told some of these Stories, and at the same time was to be informed, that we gave the Name of Love to Passions which produce such dire Effects; what an Idea would he have of our Understandings?
Now, Camilla, let me entreat you in one point to take my Advice; on no account be intimate with the Lady who thinks Belinda to be an unnatural and monstrous Character. With Observation we may discover most Peoples Minds, by the Sentiments which their Mouths utter; and when any Woman avows the Disbelief or Impoffibity of Goodness, and can assert with Warmth, that Belinda is a Monster in Nature, yon may be very Sure, that she at, M 4 least
i84 L E T T E R XXXIV
least is no such Monster: and I dare ima gine, that, if the Lady who gave you ths Novel, in hopes you would laugh at Belinda, was in the same Circumstance, Ih would, instead of supporting her Lover an her Rival, stick at nothing to do them mischief. I wish you would endeavour t find out the lady’s History, and let m know it,
I S p E N T the Afternoon yesterday in great deal of Company, with whom Should have been very well pleased, ha it not been for a Critic, who would nc suffer any one to Speak, without declarin whether it was a good or., bad thing th: was Spoken: He seem’d in all he said t intimate, that no one ever spoke withoi a Design of being witty; by which I di suppose, that being witty was the Stud of his own Life; altho’ if so, the po( Man was very unfortunate, for no one evi failed more in the Attempt.
At last a Gentleman by accident told Story; that he had contracted a gre Friendship with a Man, only from hearir
I
 XXIV 185
3f a particular kind of Behaviour of his in 1 Fever: “For, continued the Gentleman, my Friend was a great Lover of Cyder, “and always took care to keep the best “in his House that he could purchase: Now, when he was so ill, that the phy stcians forbade him to drink any himself“ “he was restless, and raging with ‘‘ the Thirst of a burning Fever, he got a “Set of his Friends to drink it round him, that the feeing them pleased, might “communicate Some pleasure to him. I “was So delighted with this Instance of the “uncommon Love of feeing others pleased“ “I contrived soon to get acquainted “with him, and have sheen very intimate “with him ever stnce; till I have found, “that his chief Delight in life, is in either making or feeing others happy.”
W E, all but the Critic, agreed with the Gentleman, in his Opinion of the Story; but he fell into a great Pastion, Said it was a very bad thing, and that it would have been much more natural, if he had thrown the Cyder in his Friends Face, for attempting to drink that in his Presence,
186 L E T T E R XXX
Sense, which he must not touch him Nobody thought it worth their while answer him -; and all he got by his Sp( was, convincing the whole Company what manner he Would have acted on like Occasion. When he left us, We agreed in rejoicing, that wc were in Respect dependent on him
1 am,
C YNTHI
(187)
 XXV
camilla to Cynthia at Bath.
Cynthia, [Fro London.
'TOUR communicating of your Sen x timents on Belindd.^ Story, was to northeast great Indulgence, as they exactly cor esponded with my own; and I am always )leased to find, that we Sympathise in our Shoughts, and agree in our Notions.
i W A s much diverted with celid.s having Resolution enough to daunt the imper: inent Coxcomb, who took such pains to put her out of countenance; as Such Behaviour deservedly makes a Man the ob iect of Contempt and Ridicule; and nothing
18  XXX
thing is more just, than to punish Vanity, which wants to be indulged att ther’s Expense.
You may be certain, Cynthia, the moment I was informed of your riolity to know Berinthid.^ Story, I ir it my Bulinefs to inquire and find it C and luckily spending an Hour or i yesterday in the Afternoon with a La who, on my mentioning her, said, 1 she was formerly of her Acquaintance j afk’d her so many Questions concern Berinthia, that at last she Said, she lieved I wanted to know every Ad of Berinthid.% Life from the time she ^ born. I replied, it was true, that I ha Curiosity to know Berinthid.% Story j tl the Lady Said, she had known her Sr her Infancy, and would relate all she kr of her, if I desired it; and on my Sayi nothing could oblige me more, she bej as follows.
“When Berinthia was eight, anc “was seven Years of Age, we went to
Same School. As we were considers y youn
L E T T E R XXXV 189
younger than any of the rest of the Scholars, we naturally kept much together, and were constant Companions.
'I have ever had a good deal of Fondness in my Temper; and, as the Bent of Nature discovers itself very early, I even at that time had a great Fondness for Berinthia: but no fine Lady who is adored by a Man to whom she is perfectly indifferent, can treat her Slave ‘ with more Inhumanity, than she did me.
‘ I gave her everything in my power;
¦ I preferred her in all things to my
¦ self, and omitted no Opportunity of en ‘ deavouring to please her, but all in vain; ‘ for she Saw her Power, and would deign ‘ to treat me no otherwise, than as her ‘ Slave. I was passionate, and when she ‘ used me ill, could not help bursting into ‘ rage, at which she with great Good ‘ nature would always laugh, and try to ‘ exasperate me, till I could hardly refrain
from beating her. This was her daily Amusement and Diversion. I have " cried whole days at her Cruelty to me, and yet she would never do anything
“to
190 L E T T E R XXXV
“to make me easy, for that she though “too rnean^ and Iquite unbecoming a Fd Son of her Dignity. If any/of the big^c “Girls took any notice of me, she Wa So angry at it; that she was Sure to fine '‘ out Some; Method, of revenging it oi ‘‘ me. To Some of them dndeed she m very obsequbus; but I have fincete ‘‘ fiected, it was only to those, who tol( her she was pretty, or in any marniei “praised her; for she never regarded an] “one the shore for doing her any rea “Kindness.
Bu t I will dwell no longer ontmi Part of her Life, nor should I hav( “said so much of it, but only as I think “her Behaviour even then Was' a strong “Indication of her future Conduct, and t( show you how early People act in Cha “racter.
“We came from School, when I'm. Thirteen; and, as we lived very near“ “other till I was Fifteen, wc con “tinned our Correspondence. But now i “was impossible it should last long; foi 3 “
 XXV igi
^ that Envy, which she could not con ‘ tain, even when any of my School ‘ Fellows, took notice of me, now I be ‘ came of an Age to be observed by Men,
'burst forth like a Torrent, overleaping ‘ all Bounds.
“Shle had her share of Admirers, but ‘ that would not content her; the mo ‘ ment any Man appeared to have the ‘ least Liking to me, she fancied herself' ' love with him, for she never, ex ‘ amincd herfels; and, when she was un ‘ easy that she was not flattered, she im ‘ mediately imagined it was fruitiest and ‘ unreturned Love gave her that Uneafi ‘ nefs: and it is incredible how many ‘ artful Tricks she made use of, to in ‘ gross all the Men to herself. Some ‘ new Lye was the Tax I paid for every
* new Lover; and when she had spread
* these her own Inventions, she
* constantly came and told them me with great Anxiety for my Good; was greatly grieved, that People should be
‘ So wicked, as to give themselves the liberty of thus censuring others without
a
19  XXXV
“a Cause, and then gave me Some Sriem
ly Advice, to behave in the very mai “ner. She knew would to the Worl ‘‘ corroborate the Story. A Train of Gur “Powder, when once lighted, cannot fasti “catch the Flame, than Scandal spread“ “managed by an artful Incendiary ‘‘ and, as Berinthia had herself laid th “Train, she must know best where sin ‘‘ to kindle it.
“Several sleepless Nights and refi “less Days have these Stories given me “for I was young, and every time I hear ‘‘I was thus defamed, fancied I was un “done. I had not then constdered, tha “Truth, like the Sun, though' clouded b; “Envy, and eclipsed with Spite and Ma “lignity, will in the end break forth am “shine with all its natural Lustre.
“At last by an accident I difcoverei “all drra//7//2’s Treachery : You may h “certain, I no longer then conversed witl “her, altho’ she played over all her Art “to induce me not to abandon her. Sh “wept and Swore, and stuck at no false
‘ ‘ hooi
 XXV 193
hoods that could give her the least glim ‘‘ mering hopes of still dveceiving me; “but it was all in vain, for I never would “Speak to her asterwards; and in a Small “time, to my great Joy, she left the “Neighbourhood, and fixed at the other “End of the Town : there she got c“ “with the young Oliva, who “was sincere and artless in her Disposition“ “in the lest apt to suspect others; “tender in her Heart, and open and un “reserved in her Behaviour.
‘‘ This Was the very Character that ‘‘ seemed formed by Nature for Berittthia “to exercise her Talents on. You know she can be very agreeable, when she has “a mind to recommend herself; and her “Assiduity to oblige this her new Friend, “soon deceived the poor innocent Oliva, “who imagined she was as fond of her “as she professed. This was the greatest “Joy imaginable to Berinthia; for a “Friend is no less necessary to the com pleating the Happiness of those Minds “that delight in Treachery, than to the “heightning the Pleasures of those bene vol. II.... y volent
19  XXXV
‘‘ volent Dirpofiti'ons, whose chief Enji “ments depend on their being Shared w “others.
“OLIVA was not at all Coquette her Humour, and therefore had no “Variety of Followers, for Berinthia “practice her Skill on; but in Lore she had one accepted Lover, whom ‘‘ designed soon to make her Husband“
“was a Man, who “lued himself greatly on his Pruder “and studied the Pastions of others V the noble Design of turning them “his own Advantage, without any C “fideration what they Suffered by it.
knew well the secret Springs of the 1 “man Mind; and could, whenever “thought proper, make use of that Knc “ledge, to rack and torment it; and “he would have wondered at the Crui ‘‘ of a Tyrant, who Should study Ant “my, with a Design only of find “out in what manner he could best C “trive'to rack and torture the Bodies “Men.
y OLI^
 XXV 105
“OLIVA was very handsome: : renzo liked her Person, and, as her For ‘‘ tune was full as much as he could ex“ “with a Wife, he thought it would “be more prudent in him to marry her, ‘‘ than to think of her in any other light * but if he had not thought it prudent, ‘‘ he would brave scorned to have let her Happiness or Misery have the least “Weight in his Determinations.
“As soon as Berinthia found out on “what Terms Lorenzo visited Oliva, She “was resolved to contrve Some Method of getting him away from her: and “the first Invention she hit upon, was writing him a Letter, in which there ‘‘ were many dark Hints about Oliva's “Conduct:, as if She had been guilty of “Something, of which he was ignorant, “that, if known to him, would certainly “make him change his Mind. Every Sentence was was intermixed with great “Expressions of Tenderness for the Repu“ “of young Ladies, and strong astcr y tions; that nothing but the Fear that a N 2 “Man
19  XXXV
“Man of his Understanding Should “drawn in to do an imprudent Acti ‘‘ could possibly have induced her to wr “this Letter. Then she begs him not “believe anything against Oliva withe “strong Proof: for there were so ma “Lies told in the World, it was vt difficult to come at the Truth, and “would be terrible to let poor Oliva M from Calumny.
“This Letter was signed from an u “known Friend. Lorenzo was startled “the Receipt of it. The Thoughts being made a Dupe, were to him me “terrible, than any Misfortune his Iir gination could paint. No Man visit Oliva but himself; nor had he ei “seen any the least Misconduct in her E “haviour. Notwithstanding all his Pf “dence, he liked her Person well enoug “to be unwilling to restgn her; and, wh “She was present, could not believe ai “thing against her. The Innocence of f “Look, and the unaffected Simplicity “her Manner engaged hhn to have sud“ “in her, that he showed 1
 XXV 197
the Letter. Poor ouva could by no “means guess whence this Malice could. “arise j and, as She was herself conscious of no Offence, even in thought, to any “Person in the world, She could not imagine “who could have any Spite against; her.
“The next time She saw her Friend, she artlestly told her of it. berintjola “made such an Outcry at the Wkkednefs ‘‘ of the Person, who could, without any Provocation, be guilty of such an Ac“ “as greatly confirmed olivd.s Opi “nion of her friend’s sincere and ardent “Affection.
“I Cannot repeat all the treacherous Arts Berinthia made use of, to perpetrate “her noble Scheme. It is sufficient to inform “you, she so perfectly succeeded in it, that “she made Lorenzo believe all she desired“ “brought him to turn his Thoughts on ‘‘ herself fora Wife. She had the superior ‘‘ Fortune, which Consideration, in the “Scale of his Prudence, had no final “Weight; but still ouvaf^ Person dwest *'¦ strongly on his Imagination, and he could N 3 “not
igs  XXV
not think of quitting her: He then sore formed another Scheme much moi agreeable to his own Desires; and, as 1 knew Oliva vas fond of him, resolve he would make use of that fondness I ‘‘ betray her. In Short, the poor your Creature, not suspecting in Lorenzo tl least Treachery, fell into the Snare 1 had barbarously laid to catch her ur “wary Steps, and became a Prey to h ‘‘ cruel Designs: and, as I have alreac told you lorenzo’s Character, it wou! be unnecdlary to say how he behavt afterwards.
BERINTHIA, who was herst “in love with Loretizo (for he was vei “handsome and sprightly) now added her natural Love of Deceit, a Hatred i Oliva, arising from Jealousy; and there fore, under a Pretence of Friendshi went daily to see her, to fet before h “all her Misfortunes in the most glarii Light, and upbraid her with her Crim“ “studied Words that would pier “the Soul the deepest, and strike themt cutting Daggers to the Heart j and j “contrive
 XXV igg
• “contrived it so, that the poor deceived “Wretch, whose Mind she was torturing, ‘‘ believed She pitied her.
o
“Thus artfully tormented by her supposed Friend, neglected and scorned by “the cruel Lorchzo, and weighed down “with the Burden of her own painsul re flections, poor Oliva (whose Mind was “unacquainted with Rage) Sunk under her ‘‘ Afflictions, and pined in Thought’ till ‘‘ Death, her only true Friend, relieved her “Sorrows, and the Grave covered her “Shame.
“BERINTHIA now rid of her “Rival, soon married and, as her
“Passion for him is of that kind that pur“ “nothing but its own Gratification,
“and might very easily, by a Person igno “rant of the World, be mistaken for “Hatred, it breaks out continually in Jea “loufies, Fewds, Quarrels, and all manner “of Confusion: : House is one con“ “Scene of Discord and Uproar;
“and to them the Names of Wise and Husband do indeed, as Lothario says in N 4 “Thr
200 LE tter XXXV
“The Fair Penitent, mean only ill nature, Cares and Quarrels."
O
Here the Lady ended the Story of be rinthia; and said, that she would on nc account renew her Acquaintance with anj one, for whom She had so great a Detestation.
Your Advice, Cynthia, would have been prevalent enough with me, to have made me for the future avoid any Intimacy with Berinthia; but now I know her Story, my own Inclination will also lead me to shun and sty her as a Creature too venomous tc be .conversed with.
I am, c.
CAMILLA,
( 201)
 xxvr.
Cynthia to Camilla at London.
Dear Camilla, [From Bath.
YO U may be certain, I pitied poor Oliva. But, alas! general Compassion cannot at present have much place in my Thoughts; for my Lies ffream with deeper Sorrow, and my Heart swells with a more piercing Grief. Oh! Camilla, I have lost my dear Ophelia who died last Week in the Country of a merciless Fever, that suddenly deprived her of a Life valuable to all who knew her, and more especially to those, who had a true sense of her exalted Merit. Ophelia Countenance was a Picture drawn by Nature, at once to express the highest goodness, and the strongest Understanding. To describe her
Features
? This is the real Character of a young Lady who died at Chelsea in August Raft; and the Author falls as Short in painting her transcendent Merit, as in expressing her own Concern at the Loss of such a Friend.
20  XXXVI
Features would be impossible; for the Lustre that arose from her refined Sense and Goodness was so great, that it struck every Beholder with Such Sudden and violent Admiration, that in the general Astonishment, the Power of distinctly examining ever) Beauty, was lost.
But the Charms of her Perfod^ though' she was a consumate Beauty, were the most trifling of her Perfections; for the Goodness of her Heart was so great, thal she melted with Tenderness at others Griefs, whilst she had Resolution enough to Support any Affliction, in which she alont was concerned. From her Lips could flow no ill natur’d Expression, as her Heart wai incapable of conceiving one maliciou: Thought. Her Sentiments and Observation: were not inferior to those of the greater and wifest of Mankind, whilst the Simpli city of her Manner brought to the Remembrance of all her Hearers the prattling In nocence of Infancy itself.
My ophelid.s Goodness compensated he Beauty, even to her own envious Sex; Soi
insteai
 XXVI 203
instead of making it her Pleasure insolently to display her own Superiority, a benevolent Delight in feeing all around her happy, was visible in her whole Conversation: nor would She ever attempt to purchase the Reputation of Wit, at the Expense of another’s Uneasiness.
Goodness itself was the Object of her Regard. None were too low to gain her Friendship, whilst they deserved it; nor could even the appearance of her Esteem be bought by outward Circumstances, or exalted Stations,
T o the sprightly Imagination, whose Fire burns brightest in Youth, she joined the Judgement, that long and dear bought Experience can give to old Age itself. In short, she had the Wisdom of a Philosopher, the Heart of a Christian; or, to speak more yproperly, she possessed the Head and Heart of a Christian Philosopher; whilst her Form gave us a faint Idea of what Angels are.
Volumes could not speak Ophelia's Praises: : altho’ I know the Impossibility
20  XXXVI
bility of doing Justice to such a Charastei yet I find it difficult to quit the Subject for the fondest mother’s Love to her newborn Infant is not too strong a Picture C my Affection for Ophelia; and yet I fiin Some Comfort in her Loss, and think m Tears are more properly Tears of Tender nefs than of Grief. Forever since I knew her Worth, I have looked with Tremblinj and Horror on the Possibility of her btin in the power of stupid Insensibility, o tyrannical Cruelty. I thank God she ha escaped Such misery: and when I confider how few Objects could have given he pleasure, and what Numbers might hav given her Pain, I rejoice over her Grave, am triumph in the Thought, that it is no out of the Power of either Ill nature C Folly, to torment and rack her honest artless, tender bosom.
B u T I dare Say no more, for I ever moment expect your Brother to retur home; and, as I know he shares ever Pain he but imagines I feel, I would, possible, prevent his thinking any oth Guest but Joy ever inhabits this Breast.
whi ls’
 XXVI 205
I Must therefore cease to write of my loved Ophelia, to stop those Tears, which I would conceal from my Valentine, Some Women are perhaps lavish in unfolding their Griefs, lest their Husbands should not have their Right, in sharing whatever they poffess, yet I must agree with the Author of that inimitable little Piece, call’d,
Fatal Curiosity, in this Sentiment, that.
As Pain and Anguish in a generous Mindt
While kept concealed, and to ourselves confined.
Want half their Force: so Pleasure, when it flows
In Torrents round us, more extatick grows.
Farewell then, sweet Maid, and may Flights of angelsjing thee to thy Rest,
I am, c.
CYNTHIA.
¦ ^
( 2o6)
 XXVII Lavinia to Cynthia at the Bath.
MADAM, [From London.
The extreme Pleasure I took in your Company, for the short time I stayed at the Bath, could not be unobserved by you, as I lost no Opportunity of being with you, that was in my power; and, unless I was very much mistaken, both as to your Understanding and Good nature, there is very little Apology necef sary for my beginning a Correspondence of this kind; for when I tell you, that conversing with you is a real Pleasure to me, I know that I give you the strongefl Reason in the world for indulging me in it j and that Consideration would have
more
 XXVII 207
more Weight with you, than the greatest Assurance that could be given you of its being likely to prove an Entertainment to yourself.
The Ease and Freedom I found in your Conversation, made me forget we were, what is called newly acquainted; and, from the first day I saw you, I could not help looking on you as my most intimate Friend.
I Scarce ever before met with any one that would understand me; for, if I said anything the least out of the common way, I was always told, that it was to Show my Wit; and, tho’ I Said the plainest thing in the World, yet those I conversed with, were always desiring to know what that might mean, and what fine Sentiment was now intended to be deliver’d; So that in the midst of Company I have hitherto Seemed to live in a World by myself, and to talk a quite different Language from all that I have conversed with. There is nobody who is more fond of communicating their Thoughts without
Constraint;
2o  XXXVII
Constraint; but yet, till I met with you Self, there was no one who Seemed mo reserved.
IT is with great plcasure I have ost( heard you talk on the various Charade of Men, and, as I then thought, they were none, but what you seemed to ur derstand and be acquainted with; but fine I have been in Town, I have met wit three, that I believe have never yet fal under your Observation.
The Report of the Fortune lately lei me by my Aunt, has procured me innumerable Lovers, and among the rest, th three Gentlemen I intend to describe.
ni bi.newman, amongst his Acquaintance is commonly called the Naturalist. H was bred up under a Man, who was i great natural Philosopher;; from Sonn Books that lay continually in the old Man’ Window, he cull’d here and there an Idei concerning what was agreeable to the Nature of Things. The same Figure as .i Florist would make with the Roots of tw(
01
 XXVII 209 /
or three common Flowers, does our Philosopher make with his few shattered Ideas.
But what sets him off to the best: advantage, is my other Lover Mr. Smith, who has no Ideas at all, but what arise from Experience. He asserted, that there is nothing certain in this World, but what !S testified by our Senses, and whatever he in the space of thirty Years has never experienced, he positively denied, could wer have been since the Creation.
M R. Ser old, my third Lover, though' quite iifferent from the other two, is full as odd i Character as either. He defpishd expe ience, for he said, that Circumstances too ninute for our Observation, might make rhings differ very much, when we appre iended them to be alike, and then our Experience would come to nothing j and, as ve could not perceive on which of those urcumstances the Event of Things depended, so it was impossible for us to make iny Judgement of the future by the past;. m.d., as to the • Nature of Things, there aeeded no more than the frequent and undecided Disputes upon that head, to prove
vol. IL O the
21  XXXVII
the great Uncertainty of that Rule judging.
V H E N E V E R this Gentleman spoke me of Love, he disdained to be too Su missive, and complimented me in the f( lovv^ing manner. “Oh, Madam, for tl Minute you appear so very beautiful, tl “my Heart seems captivated; but so ve uncertain is everything here, that pe ‘‘ haps your Beauty is but Appearance, ai ' “my Heart only seems captivated; fc “whether there is anything real under tl “Sun, I know not. I think you have gre “Merit, as well of Mind as of Body; ar ‘‘ yet so deceitful are Appearances, th perhaps your Mind may be filled will ‘‘ every ill Quality, and your Person m half so handsome as it looks to be, thr ‘‘ my deceitful Senses.”
Mr. Ser old, when he had thus deliver! himself, really fancied he had made a Speec that would highly delight me; for he will ly imagined, because a Woman of Sen does not take pleasure in that nonfensic Homage, which only p; oves the persc 3 wf
 XXVII 21 r
vho pays it, to have a Contempt for her, hat therefore Ihe must be pleased with ludeness, and take ill breeding for sin erity.
Mr. Newman used to make love to me a the following manner. “It is, Madam,
'according to the Nature of Things, that ‘ Men stiould like Women, and Women ' Men; it is still correspondent with the ' Order of the Creation, that Men Should ‘ like handsome Women best: Certainly ‘ Nature gave Beauty to raise Admiration, ‘ and we follow her great Law, when we ' admire that Beauty. It is also allowed, ‘ that, as far as Women surpass Men in ‘ Beauty, So far do Men excel Women in ‘ Understanding; and therefore the latter is ‘ properly the Object of Admiration to ‘ Women. Now, you being a very beau ‘ tiful Woman, I do, as far as is accord ‘ ing to the Nature of Things, admire ‘ you; and, as I may say without Vanity, S that I have been from my Infancy in ‘ structed by a very learned Tutor, in all ‘ the Rudiments of Knowledge, a Conjunction between you and me, by way O 2 “of
21  XXXVII
of Marriage, will be just: according to fh “Nature of Things V
All this would Mr. Newman speak II a formal sedate deliberate Tone, till i could hardly keep my Countenance; neither was it much easier to do so, where Mr. Stnith addressed me, which was generally in the following manner. ‘‘ Madam. ‘‘ I see you are a Woman of Sense, there“ “I am not afraid of that formal Cox“ “Mr. Newman, who talks Non“ “of the Nature of Things. I knovi your Understanding will inform you, that there is no farther Knowledge to “be attained in this World, than what “Experience gives us. Now, this sure “Foundation of all Wisdom, this fartheji “Boundary of the human Understanding, “has always been my utmost Care to study; ‘‘ and I by experience have found out, “that Women are to be obtain’d by “Mens Solicitations; Oh! Experientia “docet: Had not I known this, how should “I have dared to have prostrated myself “at the Feet of such Beauty? But thirty y Years Experience is worth ten thou“
“
 XXVII 213
fand Years of poring over musty Books, “whose Tenets are all nonsense, and “whose Conclustons are all uncertain.”
All the time Mr. Smith spoke this, he would strut about the Room, as if he had just gained some mighty Conquest, and was sure of carrying his Point.
I Own I used to take great delight in feeing these three odd Fellows together; and one day I contrived to invite them all to Dinner, and got two Girls of my Acquaintance, who were sprightly, and I fancied very friendly, to Share the Entertainment. When Dinner was taken away, and the Servants retired, then our Conversation began.
Mr. Smith told a long Story of some matter, which I have now quite forgot, only to prove, that all Knowledge takes its first Rise from Experience; when Mr. Newman took him up with great Warmth, and said: : “so far is Knowledge from
being derived from Experience, that I “may say, and I think I may affirm, that O 3 y Experience
2 1  XXXVII
“Experience is no Knowledge at all; the “Senses may deceive us. Matters of may be false.
Mr. Serold impatiently interrupted him thus: “'Tis true, Sir, you are a Man oi “Sense; Uncertainty is the only certain “thing; this I can prove from the greatest ‘‘’writers of Philosophy.
Then Mr. Newman cried out: “And “those Philosophers were in the right, as “far as concerned the Senses; but when “they come to confider the Nature uj “Things, abstracted Ideas, and logical Conclusions, then indeed there is some Cer< “tainty to be come at.”
“N o, replied Mr. Serold, — I beg youi pardon. Sir; these logical Conclusions, as ‘ ‘ you please to call them, may be drawn from false Principles; and I think there “is but one thing certain; and that is, thal there is nothing certain."
Mr. Smith would not suffer him tc proceed farther, but rising out of his Chair
Said
 XXVII 215
Said : “How, Sir, are not Matters of Fact, “which we see before our Eyes, cer “tain?”
Mr. Newman joined him in his Rage, and in an angry Tone said“ “is not ‘‘ the Study of the Nature of Things the “sure way of coming at Truth? Do you Say, that I have all my life been in the wrong ?"
Mr. Smith cried out: ‘‘ And dare you affirm, that I have never been in the » right ?”
Mr. Serold not liking to be thus questioned, replied: Nay, Gentlemen, you “ought not to take it ill, that I contr“ “you, when you both as strongly “contradict me; but let us in this affair appeal to the Ladies. ”
W E agreed that they were all in the right, and so for the present ended the Fray. We had several more of these Scenes, which diverted me; for I could not help laughing at my Lovers, who, O 4 whilst.
2i  XXXVII
whilst; they pretended to be following me, really spent their Time, in finding out new ways of confuting one another; for 1 found the Bustnefs of their Lives was, to support their several favourite Tenets; nol that they really thought them of any use either to themselves, or the Society thej were Members of, but only from the Dread of being convicted of being of thal inferior Order of the Creation, which is capable of being in an Error.
Sometimes, when the Difeourfe wa on Love, I used to be led in to advance my real Sentiments; such as, tha fotne Women had been sincere and constant; that I thought there was no Love which did not seek the Good of its Ob ject. — Then Mr. Newman would immediately bring ten thousand Arguments t( prove, that is was not according to thi Nature of Things for Women to be constant or for any one to seek any body’s Goo( but their own. Mr. Smith said, that h had never met with a stneere Woman, II all his thirty Tears Experience, and there fore there could be no such thing : An
Mr
 XXVII 217
Vir. Serold, aster a great many delibera ions, concluded, that I might or might lot be in the right, for there was nothing 'ertain.
I Pa ID very dearly for all these amufe nents; for both the young Women I nentioned, and whom I destred to share ny pleasures, turned out to be my greatest Enemies; They were angry to See the ydreffes of these three Men paid to me, m.d. that they were not liked best by such wiiable Creatures; and told them, that my whole Scheme was to laugh at them. This enraged them all to Such a degree, to stnd hey had been treated with Contempt, hat they left me, and fell in love, or Followed, or had a mind to show their Sense to these two Girls, or any other Girls hat came in their way. The Loss of such Lovers, or such Friends, you may imagine ave me very little Vexation; but, I own, he Consequences have made me very un; asy, for I could go nowhere, but I heard : en thousand ridiculous Stories of myself; IS that I displayed my Charms, only to draw in unwary Men, to laugh at them;
that
2i  XXXVIL
that I had such strange high flown No tions of Love, that no Man was fit for m; Lover, but the Hero of a Romance j aw many more ingenious things invented, ] suppose, by my two good Friends before mentioned.
B u T I made no doubt, that Time and Patience will overcome Malice, as intirdj as it generally does the Gout.
I am, c.
LAVINIA.
( 219)
 XXVIII hnthia to Lavinia at London.
MADAM, [From Bath.
^ O U could not have obliged me more, 1 than by writing to me so unreferved after our short Acquaintance; for there no one Quality I esteem more, than lat Openness of Heart, which renders us )id of Suspicion, and apt to embrace 1 Opportunities of being acquainted with ich Persons as give us pleasure. That lutious Fear, which appears in the very ountenance of too many, is to me so destable, that I cannot help thinking. some hat very unfit to come to fight lurks ithin the Mind, which with Such ash lity shuns discovery.
However
22  xxxviir.
However short the Time of our cor verling together may have been, yet it ha been long enough for me to be satisfied, that you will understand my Meaning; and no from what I have here said imagine, Ian pleading in defence of those, who, to eaci Stranger they meet, babble out every Ide they have collected, from the Time o their Remembrance, to show their Parts and fet their Understanding in view: for as some Women, who think China pile up in proper Pyramids, as necessary to they well-being, as a House to cover them when they cannot afford to buy what’ proper, display crack’d Cups and the whol Side of broken Jars to Sight, and then fan cy they have proved their Wealth; So others by venting their few broken Thoughts ir every fresh Set of Company, sit down Sa tisfied, that they prove their Understand ings.
B u T I pity you, Lavinia, when yoi tell me you are fond of communicatini your Thoughts freely, and yet, from th Misfortune of having generally met witl
Sue!
 XXVIII 221
: h Persons, as milinterpreted all you said, ve been forced to seem reserved the latest part of your Life. I don’t know more uneasy Situation; it’s living in a ntinual Restraint, putting a Curb on our clinations, and yet imagining ourselves lacherous, as we find we are afraid to sak the Truth.
Your three Lovers are the Characters some small Part of Mankind. To get to e Bottom of an Argument, and nicely parate one Idea from another, requires me Difficulty, and perhaps may exceed e Power of some part of the human )ecies; but general Terms, such as, that ' things are agreeable to the Nature of ingsj — that Experience is the best aster; * — that Events in this World are icertain, c. requires no more penetra )n, than would be sufficient for a school )y to learn his Lesson by rote : and there re no wonder Men who can go no farther, old choose to gratify their Vanity by ch Proofs of their Understanding.
But
22  XXXVIII
B u T as some People please themselves by heightning common Expressions int the deepest Maxims of Philosophy j H others delight to despise what they fane; the Object of Contempt, only because the; cannot understand its Meaning. I wa yesterday in a Room full of Company where an Acquaintance of ours, namelj Florella, told me She had accidentally mei with the Fragment of a Fairy Tale, which as She knew I loved that kind of writing. She would Send me. You can hardly imagine the Sneers, witticisms, Jokes, tkl immediately stew round the Room, on the childish Taste of reading Fairy Tales.
Several Beaus, whose persons hap pened to be run up to a great Height, whiift their Understanding was in Miniature, ridiculed the little Creatures, and wondered whether they were now grown more invisible than formerly; for they protested, they had never seen one of the Pigmies in their lives. One Lady Said, she had forbid all her Servants Suffering Such Books to enter her Doors: “For, continued she, I have
two
 XXVIII 223
two little Girls, the eldest is about six Years old; and I would not for the world they Should be even now So childish as to read Fairy Tales."
Another Lady Said, that although le had no Children, yet would she not; epa Servant about her that was Such a ool} for that she Should expect a Creature, ho was silly eiiough to be diverted with ich Stuff, would not be able to distinguish le Ribbon frqm another.
A N old Gentleman, who Sat next me, lid, he supposed these People had never card, or elfe had all forgot, that the ma hinery of the Odyffee itself, where Some stents which appear Supernatural are per )rmed, was not at all unlike the inter ention of Fairies; and that one of the reatest genius’s of our own Nation had ondefcended to call his principal Work by he Name of The Fairy een.
Whilst he was talking in this man ler, I observed all the Gentlemen and la lies, who were within hearing, got up and
left
22  XXXVIII
left their Seats with a scornful Air; and a visible Contempt both for him who talked Such nonsense, and for me who could hearken to it: But notwithstanding their Contempt, I will send you this Fragment of the Fairy Tale, which although' it has neither beginning nor ending, yet as it contains one whole Story, and, in my opinion, a good Moral attends it, I have some hopes it may amuse you.
With great Esteem for your obliging manner of beginning this Correspondence,
I am.
Dear Lavinia,
Tour obedient humble Servant,
CYNTHIA.
( 225)
A
R A G M E N T
O F A
FAIRY TALE.
VHIL S T the Princeft, attended only by her favourite Dwarf and i faithful Rosetta, was pursuing her jour y to the Cajile of Wishes, her Mind was transported with the Prospect of her sue Happiness, when she Should be once nitted into that fair Castle, that she for" "
the Direction the old Man had given r; and instead of turning short to the ght hand, just at the end of a long ce r walk, she kept strait forwards, and 3ceeded so far into that Walk, that, as s Night now advanced, she had no hopes, old she return back, of reaching the vol. II P House
22  XXXVIII
House where she was to have ended that day’s Journey; nor had She for many Miles left any sort of Castle, House, or Cottage behind her; She resolved therefore to travel on as far as her Mule would carry her, in the Road She then was, as that only afforded her any hopes of a House to repose in.
In this Resolution stie had not gone far, before She saw a Small Light amongst some Trees at no great distance. She Sent her Dwarf td‘ inquire who lived there, and if they would receive some benighted Travellers. He soon returned with a friendly Invitation, which the Princess readily accepting, she was conducted to the House, where she was received by a plain, but well dreffed elderly Woman, who with great cheerfulness assured her of a sincere and hearty Welcome to the stmple homely Entertainment it was in her power to afford. The Princess returned her all due Thanks, and told her who she was, the Manner of her lostng her Way, and the d^jfign of her intended Journey,
The
 XXVIII 227
The old Lady, upon learning the uality of her Guest, rose up to throw; rself at her Feet, and to pay the Respect id Ceremony due to her high Birth and ation: but the Princess (preventing her) ifolutely forbade all such Form and ho age, and inststed on it, that their con rfation and Behaviour that Evening stiould; upon an equality, and without reserve. I know my Duty (said the old Lady) too well to disobey your royal Commands; and, stnce you have granted me this Freedom, give me leave to offer my Advice concerning your Journey to the Cajile of jvtfhes; and let me, if possible, persuade you to destst from it: for it will certainly procure you nothing but Misfortunes and Unhappiness. I have myself experienced the Vanity of its Favours; for to the Indulgence of my Wishes was owing all the Misery I ever knew; and I doubt not, but as soon as you have heard my Story, you will quit your present Purpose, and rejoice to think of the Dangers you have avoided.”
P 2 Thr
22  XXXVIII
The Princess smiled at her Difeourfe as thinking itdmpofiible for her to prov what she had asserted; but told her, Ih was very willing and desirous to hear he Story; which She then began in the fol lowing manner.
“My Mother was married very youn; to a Gentleman her Parents had providei for her, whom she neither liked nor dil liked. His Person was tolerably agreeable his l'’nderffanding not to be complained oi his Humour easy, and his Temper quit and composed; so that my Mother had m Reason to find fault with his Behaviour They lived together nine Years withou having any Children; but in the tend Year of their Marriage I was born, to th great Joy of both my Parents. But besor I was a Month old, my Father died; am as my Mother, though' she had a great Esteen and Friendship for him, had not that ex ceffive Fondness which would have mad his Loss insupportable, she soon got th better of her Grief. She doted on me t tyre most; extravagant degree; and in nursini
an(
 XXVIII 229
i taking care of me, employed all her loughts and all her Time. I was said be so extremely handsome, that I m became the Sight and Wonder of all J Neighbourhood, and never went by y other Name during my Childhood, but! It of the Infant Beauty. My Mother )uld hardly ever let me be out of her ms, and confined herself so much to the rfing me, that Want of her accustomed ercife and Air made her very sickly: and : was told by a Physician, that if She did t alter her manner of living. She could t hold it long. The poor Woman was; adfully alarmed at this Sentence; for her agination painted Death in all his most : rid Forms, when she confider’d, that; could not die, without being separated m her dear Infant Beauty; and there e, pursuant to the doctor’s Advice, Ihe : ry day rode out in'the Fields for two three Hours.
One Morning, when stie was on horsh: k, attended only with one Servant, as she e by the fide of a Wood, she heard the ind of Hollowing, and the Opening of P 3 Hounds,
2 3  XXXVIII
Hounds, as in a Sull Pursuit; and lookin down just before her Horse's Feet, she Sa a poor trembling Hare just crept out of th Wood, but quite panting for Breath, an lying prostrate, as just ready to expire. H( piteous Look, which seemed to beg Pfc tection from her cruel Pursuers, moved m Mother to compastionate her distress; an she ordered her Servant to take her up, an to convey her Safely home.
This poor Creature had sh much Grt titude in her Disposition, that to her kin Deliverer she presently grew tame, an would let my Mother take her up an play with her whenever she pleased: Naj so deep an Impression had my Mother Goodness made on her, that (though ur doubtedly when I pulled her about, as the Cafe with most Children, it must t very teasing) she would cheerfully Subm to whatever might give me pleasure, as she was sensible it was agreeable to m Mother.
3 So
 XXVIII 23 r
For three Months was the poor Hare reserved, and lived in this manner in our amily; and every Morning She used to )llow my Mother to the Gate, to see her St on horseback; and on that Occasion old frisk and play before her, as if it ere an Acknowledgment, that by that leans she had been once Saved from the ary of the Dogs.
But one Day, as soon as my Mother as got on the horfe’s Back, he suddenly irted, and ran away with her; at the me time kicking and stinging in such a anner, that my Mother was every mo ent in danger of falling. The poor Hare as so anxious for her Friends Safety, that - her own; and, carelestly running ider the horfe’s Feet, was trampled on, d crushed to death. The Horse now )pt; and suddenly, in the stead of the or little Animal, appeared a beautiful ung Woman, dressed and adorned like 2 favourite Sultana of an Eastern em ror.
P 4 Mr
23  XXXVIII
M Y Mother at first was greatly startled; but the handsome Appearance and genteel Behaviour of the Fairy, for such my Mother was soon convinced she was, got the better of her Fears; and immediately alighting from her hor^fe, she entreated the Fairj to walk with her back to the house. The Fairy readily contented, and told my Mother She never Should forget the Kindness she had received; and as her chief Delight was in Acts of Benevolence, she might ever depend on her Friendship. My Mother said, that she was not conscious of having ever been so happy, as to have it in her power to be of the least Service to any Fairy; but she hoped she had always endeavoured to be as Serviceable as she could to any of her Fellow-creatures that wanted her Assistance. The Fairy answered, that she Would soon explain herself, by telling her the History of her Life; which, as soon as they were arrived at the House, Ihe began in the following manner.
“My Father and Mother were both “Fairies; but having many more Children,
» I
 XXVIII 233
I was sent, as soon as I was six Years old, to live with an Uncle, who was a great Magician, and had greater Power than most of the Fairy Race: For tho’we are all superior to you Mortals, yet we differ very much in Power one amongst another. The immense Riches of my Uncle made my Parents very readily part with me to him, as hoping it would be highly to my Advantage: And as he had always appeared to them as a very good natur’d Fairy, only with some few Particularities in his Temper, they made no doubt of my being well used. The truth was, that he was really very good to all those who were not in his Power, but a perfect Tyrant to those that were : And what was extremely odd was this, that though he took the greatest delight in the world in teasing and tormenting, yet he had made himself believe, that it was only for the Good of the poor Creature thus tormented, and not from the great Joy he took in exercising his Power over them,
“He
23  XXXVIII
“He lived in a House as magnificen “as a Palace, and furnished as if it hac “been the Habitation of a Prince. A first I vras dazzled vrith the Sight of f( “much Grandeur, and thought myself ver] happy; but this did not last long; Soi “he soon began to exercise his Authorit] “and Cruelty towards me. I was con“ “and abused for everything j ‘‘ did : and though I tried ever so much tc “please him, yet he either did not, oi “would not see it; and never failed tc “endeavour to prove, that every Word “and Action of mine proceeded from Pei “verfenefs and an ungovernable disposr “tion. By his Austerity and rough Be“ “I contracted such an Awe of him, “that whenever he was present, the Fear “and Anxiety which possessed me, deprived “me ofmy Senses, and I became quite afool. “This was the greatest Offence 1 could “have been guilty of; for he was so unreasonable, that he was angry his brutal ‘‘ Behaviour should produce its natural “Consequence; and would have had me “believed, that all he did was for my Good.
y Some
 XXVIII 235
Sometimes when he came into the Room, I ell into such Terrors, that Fear took away ny Utterance, and I could not speak. He would then beat me most unmercifully, for daring to be afraid of him; Saying,
I mufi undoubtedly think him very barbarous, like a Pool as I was, that I trembled so at the Sight of him; but he would cure me of my nonsensical Fears : And then he would beat me again, as if I had committed the greatest Crime in the World. But I was so unfortunate, that the more he abused me in this manner, the more my Dread of him increased, 'till at last I became a perfect Mope.
“When he had got this Handle to quarrel with me, I heard of nothing elfe; and he threw himself into such Rages, that I sometimes thought he would murder me. At last, this barbarous Uncle came in one Day in a worse Humour, if possible, than ever. He immediately fell upon me in the most outrageous manner, and Swore he would bear my Impudence of being afraid of him ?jo
y longer.
236 L E T T E R XXXVIII
longer. He then took up his Wand, “and, holding it over me, muttered Some “Words; and, bursting into a loud Fit of “Laughter, said. There, you fearful Fool, “you may now enjoy your own natural Ii“ “for you will immediately be trans“ “into the moji fearful Animal in “the Creation. There is nothing but being ‘‘ killed in your new Form can take you “from my Power, and rest ore you to your “own; and that can never happen, 'tillfou lose all Fear for your own Safety. What “he Said, did indeed happen; for I was “presently turned into a poor timorous “Hare. It is impossible to tell you what I have Suffered; no Death or Torments “could equal the continual Fright I have “always been in; for I fancied everything “I heard was the Cry of Hounds or the “huntfman’s Horn. I had lived five “Years in that Shape when you kindly “took me under your Protection; and the “first time I saw you in danger. Gratitude for your Goodness made me in my Fear for your Safety forget my own; and by the Tread of your horfe’s Foot, I was
y restored
ETTER XXXVIII 237
jstored to my wonted Form, and am ee from the magician’s Power.
I Inherit from my Parents a great eal of the Fairy Art j and whatever you lall ask, to the utmost Limits of my Wer Shall be peformed.".
Iere the Fairy ceased: : my Mo •, the moment Ihe had the Offer of a ryh Friendship, thought of her little mt Beauty, and requested that I might e the Completion of every Wish the mentit was formed. The Fairy shook Head, and said she could not go from Word: But, continued she, I wish
ou would retract the Request you have nade; for so blind are Mankind to their )wn real Happiness, that it is oftener to he Gratification than the difappoint nent of their Wishes that all their Mh ery is owing : And this which you have 'equested as a Blessing, may prove your daughter’s greatest Curse."
She good Fairy and my fond Mother I a long Argument on this Subject, in
which
23  XXXVIII
which the former fairly proved, that i would be better for me not to be indulgec in every Wish : But still the Imaginatioi of the latter had raised such Pictures 0: Pleasure to herself, in Seeing her dear Infant Beauty gratified in all her Wishes, thai she would not hearken to any reason ^ but concluded every Sentence with a Petition to have her Request granted. As nc Arguments could prevail with my Mother to change her Request, the good natur’d Fairy consented; and looking on me with Tenderness and Compassion, she with reluctance and a deep Sigh addressed me it these Words: ‘‘you have, fair Infant, Saic she, an extreme good natural Disposition, and shall, as you grow up, have lessle “vity than is common to your Sex, which“ “guard you from very great Evils j ‘‘ but I fear a Life of Unhappiness is bui “too certainly your Lot, since I am in t “manner compelled to pronounce this Sentence, that you shall never fail ol “having the Completion of every Will that comes within a natural Possibility“ “implies no absolute Contradiction And this Power shall continue as long a;
“youi
.ETTER XXXVIII 239
our Mother lives, and you are ignorant if that Power?'
Sh u s, in my Infancy, when I had ce Sensation enough to wish one thing e than another, did I enjoy the supposed fing (tho’ unknown to myself) of hav every Wish completed. Whilst I was ng enough to wish for play things, those i play things, in some shape or other, me some Mischief. I wished for Knives, ch cut my Fingers; for Dolls so big, that luld not manage them, but used to beat Face with them, or fall down and beat elf against them. I wished for little 5 and Dogs, which scratch’d and bit So, that I was generally all over Scrat 3, and bruised black and blue; and, 1 Some accident or other, that attended Fruition of almost all my Wishes, I continually in Tears, and my mother’s dness for me was her greatest Torment, rew by this means so humoursome and blefome, that everybody hated the stght northeast: This was an additional Plague to poor Woman; for, as she hated everybody

24  XXXVIII
body vrho did not love me, she was in a constant Rage and Perturbation of Mind, at Seeing me distiked and Shunned.
W H E N I grew a little older, I one day happened to be in Company with three or four Misses that were at a Boarding school, who talked So much of their Companions, that I thought it would be a charming thing to live with so many Girls of my own Age and Size. No Sooner had I formed in my Mind a Destre to go to School, but my Mother, who had hitherto kept me as much as possible ixi her light, resolved to send me thither.
I W A s, on first coming there, very much displeased, for I was an utter Stranger to most of the Girls, and they all feem’d reserved and cold to me: I was likewise under Command, a thing I had never been used to at home, and it seemed very hard to me to meet with the least Contradiction. However I had no mind to quit the School, but wished that I might be Such a Favourite with my Mistress, that she should have the greatest Partiality imaginable
ETTER XXXVIII 241
; for me. This immediately happened, then I was more miserable than ever; from that moment all the whole School : such an Aversion to me, that amongst whole Number, I could not meet 1 one that would keep me company, he Mistress heard of their Faults, they lys fancied I told her; this I never but, as they believed it, they behaved in the same manner, as if their con ires had been true: make mifchief, Tale, Blabb, all the Terms of re ch they could think on, were thought 1 enough for her, who was so happy,
) have her Mistress particular to her.
Was quite tired of this Life; and my Wilh was, to have one of the Misses, im I took a great Fancy to, particu r fond of me: This presently (in ap ance) happened; but, as She had no Fondness in her Nature, was a very il Girl, and had a great deal of Envy vas the greatest Plague I had ever met i: she contrived to get me out of my refs’s Favour, and at the same time e the Girls believe, I continued in it. PL. II Whatever
24  XXXVIII
Whatever appearance there was of h Falstiood, she made her Companions in pute it to my Art; for she always Said b hind my back, that I was the most cm nmg Creature alive, tho’ in reality I w; quite the contrary: however, this Outci of my aja had the destred Effect, ar made me more the Object of Hatred ths ever. This my fancied Friend was at la discovered by me, fori accidentally over heard her giving an account to one of tl Girls, of all the Tricks she had playec and what a Dupe She had made of me.
Thus I found myself used ill on a hands; for my Mistress, who was at fir: / partial to me without a Reason, now hate
me without a Cause. My Schoolfellow abhorred me, and my Favourite had de ceived me; so that, quite weary of Schoo' I resolved, the next time my Mother c^me to go home with her. This happene very Soon, for she came often to see me and hitherto had always gone away i Tears, because she saw me So; but Ih I was rejoiced to find I desired to go homt
an,
, XXXVIII 243
1 immediately complied with my Re
sst.
When 1 had left School, I began to ow off the Child, and commence Won; and then my first: wish was, to b.c. : general Object of Admiration of alli th Men and Women, who saw me j t, as this was impossible, and a contra* ition, there few Women, who,
mot admire nor love the Object of sns Admiration, the Fairy could do no )re, than grant what, by her Penetration 0 the Mind, she knew, would please;;
Now I never saw a Man, who did not imediately become my Admirer, I did t Say my Lover: for, as I liked no dy, and my only Desire was admira n, the Distance I kept, and the re vedness of my Behaviour Suffered no an to think I was attainable, and there: : I received no serious Proposals; but as adored rather like an Idol than addressed a Woman. The Women, who could beaf see another more admired than themselves, 0^2 were
24+  XXVIII
were really very fidendly to me (for I never insulted them, nor gave myself any Airs on the Merit of superior Beauty) and acted ac c irding to their own good Inclinations, in doing me every Piece of Service in their power; nay, they liked me the better for being handsome, as it was one Qualification, that rendered me more amiable.
One might reasonably imagine, that this Situation would make any person happy, and yet I was very miserable; for the incredible Devices of the Envious, in raising Lies, and propagating them against me, and the many false Friends I had, who took care, that not one Lye that was I'pread, Should die without my knowing it, plagued me so much, that I had no Peace : so that, I was worried undeferved ly by my Enemies, tormented by my Friends, and gained by it only a little. Flattery, whkh cost nothing to those who bestow’d it on me, as they pleased themselves with being in the Fashion, (for it was then the Fashion to flatter me) and which gave me no real pleasure. What surprised me much was, that I often found, on tracing them out, the mostvirulent
Lies
. E T T E R XXXVIII 245
: s invented against me had taken their first esrom Women, whose Beauty gave them little Pretence to be liked themselves, t, if I had never been born, they V old e had no Chance of procuring even one mirer, tho’ they Should have thrown mfelves in the way of Men who had n half a Year at Sea, without feeing Face of a Woman.
Shis I thought must arise from the iost Malignity; for, if a Man, whose iise was in every respect Suited to his (fe, and form’d for his Pleasure, except Want of a Prospect, and the Want of t Prospect was caused by a few tall Trees his neighbour’s, that stood in his way; hat Man, I say, was to sell those Trees the Ground, tho’ he had no right to it, there might be some Alleviation nd for the Guilt of such an Action:
: should any one run about, cutting m his neighbour’s Trees, where it Id be of no Advantage to himself, nor Pleasure, but merely from the Love of ig Ipiteful and ill natured Actions, such 0^3 Malignity
34  XXXVIII
Malignity would deserve no Forgivi pefs.
I LIV E p on about three Years after left School, which was till I was feventee Years old, pretty much in the same mar per; for, being naturally of a quiet inde lent Temper, I had very few Wishes, th went farther than the present Minute; fuel as going to Balls, Seeing any fine Place o Show I had heard of, and many oath things as trifling, and too numerous to rc' peat. But these, like my Childish Wissie: for play things, all brought their Inconveniences; for I never appeared in an) public Places, but, by the Envy of others, I was plagued, as I have before mentioned.
You will wonder perhaps to hear, that jn Seventeen Years, I should Seem to have had So few Wishes, and they should have produced Sq Small a Number of Incidents j but this was owing to the extreme Goodness of my Temper, and natural disposition; for, as I had not one Spark of Revenge pr Malice in my Composition, I never
ETTER XXXVIII 247
'wished any harm, even sto those, who I done me an Injury; and I Scarcely Right it possible in Nature for a Person hurt, or wish to hurt those who. had ier offended them; so that my own happiness alone, was all that was. pro •ed by the fairy’s Gift. But was such a wer given to too many, I fear, that. : only their own Destruction, but that half the World would be the Confe: nce.
M Y Mother feeing me for ever wretch.. uneasy, began now to be convinced what the Fairy had told her; and ring, as I grew older, and my Passions )nger, that I might make some hasty ish, which might prove my utter Ruin, most earnestly wished to have the Gift •acted. The Fairy presently appeared her, and said, she was sorryit was not her power to relieve her; but, if she, uld recollect the Conditions of the Gift, would find that she might, if she ised, relieve herself.
0^4 Mr
24  XXXVIII
‘ My Mother did not at first: understand her; blit at last remembering, that it was granted to me to continue, only during her Life, or during my Ignorance of it, stie immediately resolved to let me into the Secret, and to deprive me of so fatal a Power. But the Fairy stopped her, and told her, that she did not perhaps know, that, by those very Conditions, the Loss of her own Life would be the Consequence of such a Discovery. But this did not in the least prevent her first Intentions; for she answered, that she never wished to preserve her Life but for my Sake, and stiould now most willingly part with it for my Advantage. She came directly into my Chamber, Sat down on the Bed, and bursting into Tears, told me, that she had been the Cause of all the Unhappiness that I had Suffered; and then recounted to me every Circumstance between her and the Fairy, as I have before related; and, before I could make her any Answer, she fell on my Neck, and tenderly embracing me, breathed her last. I imagined it only a fainting Fit, and exerted myself to cal!
foi
BETTER XXXVIII 249
Help, and used my utmost Endeavours •estore her back to Life, but all in vain;
1 I soon found the Power I so lately had n made acquainted with was lost; for my Willies for her Recovery were inef; ual. The Loss of so good a Mother, lugh she was really the Cause of my un ipinefs, gave me inexpreshble Concern.
WT IL s T I was one day sitting alone,
I indulging my Grief, the Fairy ap ired before me, confirmed all that ^ Mother had said, and so strongly af ed me of the Impossibility there was of 1 mother’s ever enjoying a happy Hour this World, that I became in a manner onciled to her Fate: and when I rested, that she lost her Life willingly, to ike mine easy, it appeared to me a piece Ingratitude to frustrate her good de n, by indulging a fruitiest Sorrow. The iry professed great Friendship and Love me; and said, that for my mother’s te fire was determined never to abandon 2. She again recounted over the various xidents of my Life, and seemed plainly prove, that all my Misfortunes arose from
th
25  XXXVIII
the Gratifications of my Wishes: And, said she, “I make no doubt but you would “now refuse the Continuance of that
Power, if it was offered you.".
I Considered some time on what Ihe had Said; and then answered, that I apprehended that rr^y Unhappiness was rather owing to my Ignorance of that Power, and the early Part of my Life on which it was bestowed; but was I now to command the Accomplishment of my Wishes, I did not doubt, but from the Experience I had already had, and the Direction of my own Reason and Judgement, that I could make myself very happy.
The good Fairy was greatly concerned to find my Inclinations turn that way, and knew how impossible it was to convince me, but by Experience, of the Error I was in. But as she stncerely loved me, she was resolved some way or other that I should be happy. She Saw my Mind So bent on a further Trial, that unless I was indulged in it, nothing could make me easy; and yet she greatly dreaded the consequence of
Such
.ETTER XXXVIII 251
h an Indulgence. However, she at last ermined to grant what I desired for one ar longer; and then she made no doubt; I lliould be thoroughly tired of hing, and might live contented with a nmon Lot. She gave me many kind tractions, and begged me most earnestly confider well, before I formed any Wish j 1, to prevent the ill Consequences that ^ht follow those made rashly and incon tately, she so far limited the Power, t no Wish could take effect, unless it 5 thrice repeated, and the Distance of Hour kept between every Repetition.
; then told me, that as I had chosen to the Direction of my own Fate, she ild not any ways assist me; but when Time was expired, she would visit me in, and do me all the kindness that lay her power. And saying this, she dis leared.
: Cannot Say that I felt any Sorrow ler Departure; for I was So elated with Thoughts of my approaching Happi 5, that I seemed already in possession of ry Blessing this World could bestow;
and
25  XXXVIII
and by the fairy’s last Precaution, I fancied myself guarded against all sorts of Evils; and made no doubt but that at the end of the Year the Fairy, feeing me So ex ccstively happy, would continue this valuable Gift to the End of my Life.
When the Fairy left me, I had really no fettled wish or Destre formed in my Mind, unless those fluctuating Emotions which, like the Bubbles on the Water, are born and die in the Same instant, can be called Such; but on the contrary, instead of being hurried on by the Impetuoflty of any particular Destre, I only Sat down feriousty to constder what I Should do to convince the Fairy, that her granting my Request would prove my happiness.
M Y first Wish was for a very large Increase of Fortune; for though I had already a Competency, yet as I saw all Mankind making Riches their chief Pursuit, I imagined there must be fornething very valuable in what the whole World seemed so highly to esteem. But, as I had really no natural Taste for Grandeur, this Wish
di
ETTER XXXVIII 253
not come from my Heart; and therein much less than the three Hours al ed by the Fairy, I was convinced by Reason of the Vanity of it, and the loffibility of its adding one Grain to my ipinefs: And indeed I saw plainly, that old rather subject me, in many Cafes, Oifquiet; and, without farther hefi )n, I immediately threw it by, and not a little exult in the Conquest I had led. I now seemed more perfectly satif than ever, that my own Prudence and isidcration would entirely prevent all those lonfequences the Fairy had ever appre dead from her Gift.
IV next Wish was to have more xjn landing than any Woman in the World; I made not the least doubt, but that Wisdom of such a Destre would Secure from its being attended with any in venience. Here I was ignorant that true lerstanding is not in the Gift of Fairies, 0 can only give the Appearance and af ation of it. these became presently my, (for my Wish was always to be com ited as far as in the fairy’s Power.) I
now
25  XXXVIII
now began to imagine that my Understandi was superior to that of other Women; a with this Imagination I was greatly pleast My Beauty attracted the Eyes of all w' Saw me; and whenever I spoke, there V a Deference paid to my Words which t most convinced me of my great, and sup rior Sense to that of any of the Compan But yet I was but almost convinced, for had some Suspicions that this was a Con pliment paid me on the account of ir Beauty. The Anxiety I suffered lest should be so, and the vast Care I was coi tinually in to maintain my altumed Cb racter of Wisdom, more than over balance the Pleasure I received from my own far cied Superiority.
After I have been in Company, I hav lain awake whole Nights, recollecting ead Word that has been uttered; and if one I could interpret anything that vas Said ti convey the least Hint that I did not fit firn on my Throne of Wisdom, my Eyes havi Streamed with Tears, and my Heart has bea with Such convullive Pangs as if Some Sac Misfortune had befallen me. One of m]
greatef
 XXVIII 255
reatest Griefs was, that most of the Men conversed with would make love to me. his I looked upon as a strong Indication lat my Person and not my Understanding as the Object of their Admiration. My find was in a manner jealous of my Body, id suffered the utmost Uneasiness at every ddrefs or Respect that was paid to its ivied Rival: And, as Envy is the greatest lifery the Mind can endure, I led a most retched Life.
A T last I took it into my Consideration 3w to get rid of this odd Perturbation and [urricane which poffefied my Mind; and Solved that I would find Some Method of dng convinced that my person had, no are in the Compliments I received. I have ice reflected that I might indeed have ished for the Smallpox, or some ac dent by which I Should have lost my sauty; but at that time I never once ought of this Expedient, choosing ra er to wish that I might be intimate with ree or four Men of Sense, who would : ign to converse with me, and never once ention the Word Love. When the Wish
I
25  XXXVIII
I had formed was really the Bent of Inclination, the three Hours which the good Fairy had given rrte for Consideration, be fore my Wish could be confirmed, were only employed in painting to myself the Happiness that would attend the Fruition of it; so that when the time allotted was expired, my Wish was commonly ten times more ardent than at first.
I Was So pleased to think that I should get So many Instructions from Men who would talk to me as they do to one another, that I imagined I should now build on my own natural Understanding a Fund of Knowledge, which would make my Mind as masculine as my person was effeminate. According to my desire, I Soon became acquainted with three or four Men of Learning and Understanding, who either had not, or had made themselves imagine that they had not, any Taste for Beauty. I was resolved to behave myself in such a manner, as not to be taken for a silly Woman; and therefore gave up all Ceremony, and expected no more Regard than they paid to each other. Decency
they
ETTER XXXVIII 257
y had Sense enough to prescribe to themes; and that was all I required.
Shey were at first: much pleased to It with a Woman who expected no oration; and I was equally pleased to St with Men who would pay me none, ey addressed great part of their Difeourfe northeast; and I was happy to think my Unstanding was preferred to my Beauty, is lasted for a Fortnight, during which e I exulted so much in the Success of Scheme, that Joy now banished Sleep n my Eyes as much as Sorrow had done ore. I lay all night reflecting on what I 1 said the preceding Day; which I al ys approved, and imagined all the com ly joined with me in my Opinion; which agination gave me a Pleasure too great be deferibed.
T last these my Male - Companions hen the Novelty of conversing with a 3inan in this manner was over) began treat me wish the utmost Neglect; and I did not expect any peculiar Deference be paid to me, shey in the Loss of cere vol. II R money
25  XXXVIII
money Swallowed up all Civility, and in a manner Shut me out of the Company. They would neither hearken to nor answer me, but talked to each other, and gave me very little opportunity of speaking;; whenever they allowed me^that Honour, they were Sure to contradict me, even before they knew or understood what I was about to fay: And, as in order to prove my sense, I had thought proper to give up the Behaviour due to me as a Woman, they now treated me rather like a Child; and, as they Saw me willing to be instructed, the only Notice they now ever took of me was, that each would govern me in his Turn. One would have me think one way, another would inspire me with Sentiments the very contrary to those of his Companion. A third would not have me talk any Sentiments at all, and a fourth insisted on my learning things above my Comprehension. It was impossible to please them all; and yet, as I was afraid any one of them should think meanly of my Understanding, I was mad enough to attempt it; by which means I disobliged them every one; and we grew reciprocally tired of each other. They
were
 XXVIII 259
re weary of endeavouring to govern and : h me, because I did not oppose them lugh to gratify their Pride with having red any Conquest: and when I found t they only delighted to prove their own fe, without taking any pains to bring le to my Remembrance, I grew weary being tutored; and in short at last found that I was playing the Part of little ildren, who when they would grasp any ig beyond their Reach, only pull it on ir own Heads, and do themselves a chief.
ow I fell into the other Extreme;
I as this Fancy about Understanding had gued and teased me to such a degree, I; an to have an utter Contempt for all derstanding; and, as I had before looked it as the only thing valuable, I now deed it so much, that I chose to converse: : silly People rather than any others;
II ran about to all public Places, and leavoured to amuse myself the best I lid, with whatever Accident threw m ^ way.
R 2 I,
26o  XXVIII
I, Who had so lately been the Woman of Sense, (that is, in my own Fancy) was now become so full of Levity, that I hardly knew how to find .anything trifling enough to amuse me. I was cpntinually surrounded with that Part of the human Species who are eternally busy, though they have nothing to do; and eternally talking, though they have nothing to fay: and whilst I lived in this manner, I never gave myself time to reflect or wish for anything. But as the Appearance I was obliged to make, in order to keep such Company, carried me into the Expenses of dress, Equipage, and Entertainments, I found my Fortune decreasing very fast, and I was obliged to pause, in order to confider how I should next proceed. Though I had not in this manner of passing my Time found any great Pleasure, yet neither had I suffered any violent Uneasiness. A Continuance of it was quite impossible, without an Increase of Fortune; and therefore I fet myself southeast rioufly to confider, whether it would be worth my while to wish for a Fortune to continue it. But as Levity had no share
in
 XXVIII 261
my natural Disposition, and was only ten up in a Rage, in opposition to what had been so teased with before, I soon vt up the Point, and thought, by greatly renching my Expenses, I Should per j ve whether any of my late Companions' : re worth my further Acquaintance: But Soon found myself entirely deserted; lich (as I very much expected it) gave : no sort of Uneasiness.
However, my next wish was to meet tha sincere Friend. Had a Month, in ad of three Hours, been allowed me for insideration, I should Still have collided, that this wish was the wisest I ild form; and from the Moment it was 1 projected, it was sure of being conn’d. Well, I met with this sincere lend, in a young Lady whose Heart was Sincere and as open as I could desire;;
we were for some time as happy as I lid wish; and in the Freedom of our nverfation, having now a Companion to 10m I could without Reserve open all I Thoughts, I seemed perfectly happy, t this did not Raft long j for my Mind R 3 was
26  XXXVIII
was not fully satisfied for want of an Employment which Should entirely possess it; and at last I took it into my head to wish to be in love.
The three Hours given me for Consideration now stew so fast, that they seemed to my Imagination no more, than three Minutes; for such Scenes of pleasure presented themselves before me in the Consideration that I Should have an agreeable Object on which to employ all my Thoughts, that I was for the present unspeakably happy; and I fancied that now even my Friend would become a double Blesting to me, as the different Sensations my lover’s Behaviour would give me, must be an eternal Subject of Conversation to entertain her with; whereas before I had really nothing to say to her, but what I might have trusted to an Enemy.
As soon as I had confirmed this Wish of being in love, I had the Passion even before I met with an Object. No wonder therefore I fixed on the first that presented itself to my View, In short. Accident
threw
 XXVIII 263
hrew Bernardo in my way; and with lernardo I was immediately enamoured to ich a degree, that had I endeavoured to Dnceal it, to a judicious Eye that En “avour must: have been fruitiest; as the Iind struggling with a newborn Pastion as always too much Employment to ad lit a Possibility of concealing it.
Interest and Pleasure so alternate fwayed bernardo’s Mind, that the most stinguishing Judgement could not pronounce hich did most preponderate. He would ten sacrifice his Interest to the Pleasure 'pursuing a Woman; and yet, when he ought himself sure of Success, he would linquilh that very Woman for any the ost trifling Point of Interest. Ke had nderstanding enough to be very agreeable t least I thought so) but, not satisfied ith what he possessed, he was alwayo •aining to see so far beyond the Mark, at he overlooked everything in his View.
I Never put on the least Disguise, and t he was always ignorant of my true R 4. .Character;;
26  XXXVIII
Character; for he fancied the World to be one great Masquerade, in which every one performs a Part in a Malk; and therefore would not believe, there was any Such thing in the whole Scene, as a bare Face: nay. So far did he carry this Notion, that, whenever such a Prodigy appeared, he only took it for a more artful malkc
This Character of my Lover, is Sufficient to explain what a Life I led, from the time my Heart was attached to him. He at once fufpectsd my Sincerity, and yet made use of that very Sincerity to torment me : He had not one Grain of Tenderness in his Disposition, and therefore could work up my Pafiions to madness, and at the same time think the Follies I was guilty of in the Vent of those Passions, a fit Subject of Ridicule and Laughter.
S E LIN DA, who was sincerely my Friend, became my Curse; for, as I could not conquer my Pastion, I wanted her to flatter me in it, rather than speak that Truth, which, when She saw me in Agonies at Bernardd.^ ill ufage, fire could not help
uttering.
 XXVIII 265
tering. Every time She endeavoured to rsuade me, that breaking with Bernardo, IS the only means to procure my own appinefs; She increased my Distike of; r: till I came to have such an Aversion her, that I dreaded her Sight more, than Should have done that the most; fright 1 horrid Monster the World ever pro iced. Nay, so strong an Imprestion had ernardd.5 fancied Charms made on my nagination, that, when my Friend en: avoured to combat with my Pastion, for ly own Good, I was jealous, that She leaned some Treachery towards me, and 'anted to get my ffover herself.
W H E N I first saw Bernardo, I thought lat I would on no account marry him, nlefs his Love was reciprocal, and he heaved in a manner to deserve my Esteem; Lit I did not confider, that my Fondness A him, would render it impossible for lim, even with his utmost Endeavours, D forfeit my Esteem; and that, whenever t was in my power to gratify my Love, should find it very difficult, to fancy his vas not reciprocal.
At
26  XXXVIII
A T last: I wished to be married to him j and I now thought, that his present usage of me, was only to try my Love, or that perhaps it might be owing to a little co quettry in his Nature, which Matrimony would cure; ^i^at he might have a few capricious Humours, which, by studying and indulging, I might turn to my advantage. I remembered to have heard it remarked, that the most obsequious Lovers often make the most tyrannical Husbands; in short, I mustered up So many Reflections to prove, that there was nothing in Bernardo Temper that would make me unhappy, when he was my Husband, that I did not at all hefltate in confirming my Wish.
I Soon found by his Behaviour, that this was not to be brought about but by an encrease of my Fortune, for he would not marry me, whilst it was any Disadvantage to him; but even this I imputed to a prudent Consideration for our future Happiness. However, it sometimes came into my head, that it might be some small
Want
 XXVIII 267
ant of Affection, and therefore I refolv to take a Month, instead of three Hours, fore I absolutely confirmed the wish of irtune, which was to complete my for er one.
JB u T in the mean time all Objections ere removed by the Death of Selinda, ho really loved me so well, notwithstand g my late Treatment of her, that she left le all she was worth; which was so con ierable an Addition to my Fortune, that ernardo deigned to accept it, without ly farther Hesitation; and so much had forgot all my Suspicions, that within a i^eek we were married.
T o describe, or give another an ade uate Idea of the State of my Mind from bis time forward, is impossible. The foam ig Ocean and the raging Waves, the con mding Elements before the bursting of a ireadful Storm, are but faint Images of the umultuous Passions, which alternately war ^ ed within my wretched Bosom. I loved and lated, admired and despised in such Short ipaces of Time, that the several Emotions
of
268 L E T T E R XXXVIII
of my Mind could scarcely be distinguish’d from each other. My Wish, that my Husband would behave differently, was fruitless; for it was not in the fairy’s power to alter a man’s Nature; and Affection or Love had so small a share in his dispo* sttion, that he understood those Words no more, when I mentioned them, than lie would, if they had been expressed in a Language, of which he could not even read the Characters.
W H E N I had lived this miserable Life three Months, my Year of wishing was out, and the Fairy according to her Promise, appeared to me : The first Question she asked, was, whether I had not found her Words true, and would not now be glad, for the rest of my Life, to take the common Fate of Mortals, and not desire a Renewal of her former Gift: I replied, that I would willingly put my Fate into her hands, if she would contrive any Method of relieving me from the Perturbation of Mind I then daily endured; for that Neglect and insolent Scorn from the
 XXVIII 269
an I loved, had almost turn’d my Brain, d drove me to Madness.
The Fairy then plainly proved to me, at every Uneasiness I had hitherto fuf red, was entirely owing to the having y Wishes completed; and concluded ith telling me, that, had I not insisted i that fatal Gift, I should never have; en married to Bernardo; for, instead of dinda, I should have met with some false riend, who would have got him from le, for which I should indeed have been first much grieved, but afrerwards my ate would have married me to a Man of reat good nature and true Understanding, sho would have really loved me, and with shorn I should have been very happy. But, continued the good Fairy, I will not forsake you, but will exert the utmost of my Power to comfort and relieve you.”
After uttering those Words, she left le, and I heard nothing of her for half a ear, during which time I led the same nhappy Life as before her last Appearance;
27  XXXVIII
ance; for the same Love on my Side, and the Same Contempt on my hufband’s still continued, till he was Seized with a raging Fever, which, notwithstanding all proper Applications, and my most assiduous Care, in three days deprived him of Life, and threw me into such Agonies, that I have often wondered how it was possible to survive them. I raved, wept, stamp’d, beat my Breast and tore my Hair; in short, every Vent the most passionate Grief ever found, I then experienced, and yet all was too little, to ease the Load my fond Heart was burdened with.
Perhaps it may appear incredible, after what I have related of Bernardo’^ Usage of me, that his Death should affest me in this manner, and yet it was solemnly true; for it was at least a Fortnight, before I once recollected any Part of his Behaviour that had made me unhappy, and every kind Word or Look he had ever given me from my first Acquaintance with him, haunted me like Ghosts, and were for ever present to my Fancy.
I
 XXVIII 271
[Accused the Fairy of Unkindness 1 Breach of promise, that she should w, in the time of my greatest Neceshty, Sake me; but, as soon as my Grief be 1 to Sublide, and I was capable of hearken; to reason, she again appeared, and i me, that she had left me to myself in : height of my Agonies on purpose, that ir Violence might exhaust themselves; she knew, that contending with paf is, when they possess the whole Mind, he way to continue them. She begged to constder, that I had lost only my rment, and my Mind would now be ^ from Perturbation, and recover the inquillity it was naturally inclined to. I n experienced the Truth of her Words, I daily grew more easy, till at last I 5 convinced, that nothing could have n so conducive to my Happiness, as the fs of my Husband.
ROM the time I once gave myself Lve to think, that I could live, and bear being deprived of Bernardo, I grew ry Day, nay, every Hour, more easy
and
27  XXXVIII
and composed in my Thoughts: Every Amusement I could meet, without paying too dear for it, I enjoyed : and, as I had no eager Withes, I had no Disappointments.
The good Fairy came often to visit me, and confirmed me in my resolution, never again to be so unreasonable, as to desire to have all my Wishes completed; for file convinced me, that the short fighted Eyes of Mortals were not formed to See, whether the Event of any of their own Willies would produce most: happiness or misery: and that our greatest Felicity often arises from the very Disappointment of those Desires, the Gratification of which at the first View, seems to be necessary to our Welfare.
About a Year after I was a Widow, I became acquainted with my present Husband, whom the Fairy has since inform’d me, I should have been first married to, had not that fatal Gift joined me to Bernardo. I shall not trouble you with any Particulars of our Courtship, but only in
3 form
 XXVIII 273
tn you, that in about three Months we re married.
VIY Husband has Something very un [imon in his Character; for he never res of any Point, till he has thoroughly mined it; and when his own inclina is are concerned, he always deliberates h a much stricter Exactness, before he ces any Determination. In short, he is fectly reasonable, and examines himself, the Motions of his own Mind so nice that I never had any the least Cause: : of him, stnce I have been his fe. At first, indeed, I sometimes want ndulgences not altogether conformable leafon; but then, instead of denying any Request with the Tyranny of an trary Master, he in the kindest gentlest mer used to take such pains to make distinguish Right from Wrong, that I both satisfied of his good nature, and vinced of his superior Judgement; and i came to have such a Confidence in, as to be certain, that, whilst I obey lim, I could not err.
OL, II S We
27  XXXVIII
W E have a Son and two Daughters, in whose Education we have jointly laboured, and who overpay all the Pains their Infancy have cost us. They delight and study to add to our Pleasure, and we are happy to see them improve in Goodness, as they grow in Years.
The good Fairy employs my Husband and Children every day, to divert the paf fengers as much as possible, from pursuing their Journey to that Cajile of Wijhet: I suppose they were gone beyond the Place where your Royal Highness lost your way or you would have met them. They bring all the Pajjengers, they can allure out of the great Road, hither to hear my Story, in hopes of preventing their Destre of journeying on; for, as my Friend axtfairf has the highest Joy in doing Good; she employs most of her time, in endeavouring to prevent wretched Mortals from being dazzled by the false Appearance, and Shut up in that deceitful Castle, where she knows the Inhabitants must be miserable. I hope what I have told your highness,
will
ETTER XXXVIII 275
have the desired Effect, and that you return tomorrow, to your father’s ce; where, no doubt but your Absence: : great Confusion.
H E princess was going to reply, when good old Gentleman, attended by his m.d. Daughters, with a numerous Troop, m they had diverted from their jour entered the Room, and put a Stop to further conversation between the hos isle miftress of this convenient, though'
I Habitation, and her Royal Guest.
V
S 2 LET(
()
 XXIX
From a Gentleman at London, u his Friend in the Country.
SIR,
IS E N D you inclosed two Dialogues, which were written by the Gentleman, with whose Conversation you was so pleased the last time you were at my house. His Name would be a sufficient Recommendation to any who knew him; but I think theii own Merit will recommend them more to your Judgement, than any Name whatever,
7 am, c
* Dialogues were a kind Present to the Author b; a Friend.
MUCH ADO:
A
lalogue.
Written osiober 1744.
S 3
• N ^ **'"•• \' -••*• : s' -•' - <-’***••
Nl •; ••; ' V " C ‘. • 1
rs; ' ¦¦
'*.***• * <», — .•*, **.
- : * * * ' ' * *• ••»#*<. _ I V • - •'
• .* • “* **., .*'•'.* > * — * i ' ' ¦ • * ' ¦ ’ *•
^ - • ' -, ^ ^ - ’_ .* • - > »
* “'¦ -. ¦.»>¦ ' '¦' -•-•-'•• >'. ¦ : ¦ ’. ¦ -¦, •?, •'. -- •- - rr Vvi.’. 'V -•=*• .•.
;. • ^ ¦ 't' '. ' ' ¦ ¦ J ‘ ¦
- A ¦ ''f' ' ^ ^ ’
• I
* *.>'-'** ’’*.*¦
.> • .¦. •. i.; •*.. •,. ..*•
•.. • y. • / .*. * *'’c' *’•*»• ••- -••
• ** “. ' • ei. s. o,
•, « '- * •
, *
*... I. * _.. ‘,
V ', * ¦
T ¦¦¦ '¦ V -
- \. ^.- .., V - \ i V jv. -
. Is' •'
••.. : V - ¦ -- ••> - '
, .• ' .• •., • V.. .' *. '¦ C?
? •
•. - ' *. > «, *
** A..,
-. ¦_ •
• • '
h' N- -- ‘ ¦
at _____^. i. • ' V... '¦ .•*¦> ^ ^
mn...
* ' • - *•*- •- -
fi; ^ .tv w —, : t... ...
J -*- '**>.'.. > ^ y ‘ * -
A “Sfc '-^ S ^
^ -- .E ' •*- .D i, •: .•*.*- - --
i jjr 'l d •, \
-- .j.. •.. * * ' -. _ •.. •
()
MUCH ADO:
A
IIALOGUE.
The PERSONS.
Old Gentleman. His Friend. Mr. fohnfon. His two Nieces. Veny, a, ap dog, c •
E N E, a Garden by the Side of .a Canal.
. gentst OST, Say you
j[_i Friend. Ay, Sir, cast away.
)ldgent. And no account how.?
T. Not the least. 'Tis agreed on all ds, that every Soul perished.
S 3 Old
28o  XXIX
Old Gent. Well, 'tis a Affair; but we are all mortal, and -- -- -- -
Enter Nei ces.
Firji Niece. Indeed, - Madam, Said she, if your Ladyship will but confider, the Flounces are not at all too deep. — Lord! Mrs. La Soye, Said I, they are too deep by
a mile. -- -- -- Your Ladyship, Said she, must
remember the Robeings. -- -- The Robeings,
Mrs. La Soye, Said I — —
Old Gent. Neices! Neices! have you heard the News?
Firji N. What, Sir? what?
Second N. Dear Uncle, what? I long to hear.
Old Gent. The vislory is lost.
Firji N. And who won it, pray?
Old Gent. I mean. Child, the Ship so called is cast away; and in her a gallant Admiral, and a thousand brave Seamen. — A Sad Accident! Are you not Sorry to hear it?
Firji N. Lord, Sir, you know I am no
Politician. -- -- -1 don’t understand these
Matters.
Second
 XXIX 281
Second N. Well, I was always mighty •aid of Water. You remember, Cousin ’nny, I was once like to be drowned. )rd, what a sweet Pair of Shoes did I Dil then by the Wet?
First N. You mean, when you fell into It great Puddle in the Mali.
Second N. I do.
fi?ft N, That was the very Morning rs. La Soye brought home your Pink amafk. Captain O b/aze met us, you member, in Blue and Silver. No, no. vas n’t Blue neither — 'twas Brown, turn’d) with Brocade.
seco?2d N. Upon my word he never wore e Brocade till above a Week after.
First N. Then it must be the Blue and Iver.
Second N, Stay, let me reflect a little —
uddenly ft anting) O Lord! fenny,
ok! look this Moment! Help! Help I First N. 0\ Heavens! Uncle! Uncle I shere’s my Uncle? For god’s Sake,
elp! -- Poor dear little Soul, 'twill be
•own’d this very Moment 5 'twill be lost is Instant,
Second
28  XXXIX
Second N. That odious Turkey cockf Who let him into the Garden?
Old Gent. Heyday! Heyday 1 what’s the matter now?
Firji N. Lord, Sir, see — Veny, Sir — Poor dear veny^m the Canal — frighten’d in by the Turkey cock.
Second N. Sweet Creature! It can’t Swim; it never learned.
Old Gent. Tom I Here! — Lend me thy Rake.
Friend. Look, Sir; look -- -- Miss Jenny
saints.
Old Gent. Be so kind to dip up a little Water, and fling in her Face.
Second N. Speak, my Dear, Speak! — Lordd~lprd! what have I done with my Bottle of Salts? I can’t find it for my
Life -- Speak, Jenny; speak, my Dear! —
And poor Veny too! -- -- Mr. Johnson, you
are vastly good; for you have thrown a prodigious deal of Water upon my Coustn.
Friend. She is coming, Madam, to herself- -- believe we have fetch’d her.
Old Gent. Well, Niece, I have rak’d
him out -- -- don’t be terrify’d venf^ not
drown’d this bout.
Firji
 XXIX 283
irji N. (Recovering herself, and hugging y) — r Little dear Thing! how mon isty 'tis frightened? How it pants, and lakes, and it drops, and it shivers? If Lould take cold now, or have Fits. — ^ ll, please God, I'll send to Dr. slaugh this Moment, and have his Advice.
Id Gent. Come, come, Niece; as the iger’s over, better take a Turn or two be Garden. A little washing will do
Dog no harm. -- -- -- -- But to return,
Johnson, to the bad News -- -- don’t it
te you melancholy, to think on the Loss his brave Ship?
^irfl N. Do you not shudder, my Dear, hink on what might have happen’d to r Veny?
Vd Gent. How was it possible the Pilot Id be so mistaken??.
N. How could Tom be such a etch, as to let that Turkey cock into Garden? An abominable Fellow, to id nothing in the World but his cu nbers, and his Melons, and his Trum
y, and not to confider that
Old Gent. Hark! hark! the Dinner 1 !^ — Dinner, Neices! Dinner!
Firji
28  XXXIX
Firji N. not to confider, that Such a
great, filthy, two legg’d Bird
Old Gent. Dinner, I Say!. Dinner!
Both Nieces, Lord, Sir, we are coming. — Would you have us fly?
Old Gent, Come dong; come along.
[Exeunt Omnss,
• I
FASHION:
FASHION:
A
DIALOGUE.
Written A, D, 1746.
^ • -- - ¦ ' -¦*«
'* » '«•. *.,
ic. 'te ¦
': ¦ * •*-* jt:? ^ V *
_- .- -•_ ^ ‘ ^ -• -
- "'¦ ¦ • ¦ ¦ '¦
- «- • ‘ Ai r. .-= - V.
. ¦ ¦ tait ¦ 'ff '}ytv>‘ •'•••?'
. • ‘
ci ^ ff : ¦•-¦ - k'ti
xsi V ia. .A. ¦;. rix.
* ¦
i • ^ "
', * ' * ' ^ /?'*; *¦ i; k
% *.
. “**.•*.
^ ««
-. *. * ¦ * %
i, -
, • V ^?
i * > • • •;
*; ¦•. r. ^ -
^ ^ ‘ • <- * > * d.., .V' ' ' - -
¦
- -- -- -; ¦¦ ¦ ¦ / C '¦; ¦ ¦'-' ' m'
'.* “'..
• i* ¦ '.. '
- » •
•, • ' • •
( 287)
FASHION:
A
UALOGUE
northeast P E R S 0 N S.
an Old Gentleman. His Daughters. Mr. Prim. A Mercer,
H E N E, a Parlour, with Several Silks lying on the Table.
ifs. f Mr. Prim f that is the Sweet
* silk well, 'tis prodi
)us pretty; 'tis quite charming.
Old Gent. Shall I buy it for you?
iaifs.
2
28  XXXIX
Miss. Do, Papa, do; buy it this moment.
Old Gent. Agreed, provided you’ll promise me not to make it up this twelvemonth.
Miss. O! dear Papa! a Twelvemonth! a Twelvemonth hence, 'twill be frightfus
Old Gent. You mean, I suppose.. 'twill rot by keeping, and fritter away.
Prim. On my Honour, Sir, 'twill be as strong a Year hence, as 'tis now.
Old Gent. Then I imagine, the Colours will fade.
Prim. Not the least, Sir, I affure you.
Old Gent. Then pray, my Dear, how is it possible for the same individual Thing, without the least Alteration, to be charming now, and frightful a Tear hence?
Miss. La! Papa! why, you are so comical — you know 'twill be out of Fashion, and then 'twill be hideous for any Creature to be Seen in it.
Old Gent. You Say then, that a Year hence 'twill be out of Fashion, and hideous.
Both. Indeed, Sir, it will.
Old Gent. But now 'tis fashionable and charming.
Both.
.ETTER XXXIX 289
Ith. It is, Sir, indeed.
Id Gent. And pray, Mr. Prim, how has it been in Fashion? rim. Not a day. Sir, upon my Ho. 'Twas imported but this very Morn ^ France.
Id Gent. A Year ago, then, there were r Silks in Fashion. rim. There were.
Id Gent. And now they are out.
'rim. They are.
Id Gent. And consequently hideous. liss. To be sure. Papa.
Id Gent. And so it happened for Years, and will happen for Years to come. fim. Your Honour is certainly in the ht.
id Gent. It should seem then, Mr.
71, that this same Thing, call’d Fashion, fornething prone to perpetual Muta
'rim. I can’t say as to that. Sir, but to lire, the Fashions are always changing.
)ld Gent. Your Observation, Mv. Prim, ery judicious: But tell me pray: you lerftand Arithmetic?
for. II T Frtfn.
ago  XXIX
Prim. Poor Tradesmen, your Honour knows, must keep their Books, God help them.
d Gent. And pray. Sir, in Addition do you not apprehend, that on this present day, two and two make four?
Prim. Your Honour is so jocose— — —
Ah! Mr. Prim! Papa is sometimes the merriest Creature — - —
Old Gent. No Joak, on my Word. I only ask, whether two and two do not for the present make four.
Prim. I believe they do.
Old Gent. And do you believe a twelvemonth hence they will come to make five ^
Prim. No, surely.
Old Gent. Or, that a Year ago they made but three?
Prim. I never said. Sir, they did.
Old Gent. No, Mr. Prim, I dare say your excellent Skill in Numbers has long ago satisfied you, that their Nature ism alterable; that Truth and Falsehood can never reciprocate, but are immutably difiinfl through' all Eternity.
Prim.
 XXIX 291
Prim, I am very much obliged. Sir, your good Opinion; I was all my life g an Enemy to Falsehood. lid Gent. I dare believe you were; and, I warrant, you have been a Sufferer irfelf. Had you never a Piece of Silk en up, and never paid for, by a mock rd or a Mock lady?
Prim. Ay, Sir, and by real ones too.
Old Gent. And what say you to this?
5 it right, or was it wrong?
rim. I have always esteemed it one of crying Sins of the Nation.
Ild Gent. But they tell me, Mr. Prim, y are going to pafs an Act, to make it full.
Prim. Nay, now I am sure your ho irjokes; for that’s impossible. lid Gent. v/hat, to make Wrong Right, Right Wrong?
rim. Upon my Credit, Sir, I think so oussy.
id Gent. Mr. Pritn, Mr. Prim, you and lave seen Strange things happen in our e; and Strange things, for aught we )W, may happen again. Who can be tain a Twelvemonth hence, but that T 2 Meat
29  XXXIX
Meat may grow Poison, and Ratshane be the common Food?
Prim. That I don’t believe.
Old Gent. Why, Mr. Prim, so positive?? Reasons??
First, Sir, because the thing’s not to be done; and then, again, because, notwithstanding -- -- -- = —
Old Gent. ’tis enough. Sir, your Arguments have convinced me. You are, I stnd, by the whole Tenor of your conversation, a Friend to that ancient School, who maintain the iinalfefable Natures of Truth and Falffood, of Right and Wrong, of Good and Evil: They were great Men, Mr. Prim, who were of that Opinion, very great Men, it must be confessed. I can only observe, that, as these Natures are ever fixed, and Fafiion (as you moss; judiciousty remark’d) is ever changing, it moss: evidently follows, that nothing is true, or right, or good, because ’tis the Fassiion; or the Fashion, because ’tis true, or right, or good but I
have bufiness, and muss go— — Priid. your Servant.
Prim. Sir, I am your moss obedient.
[Exit Old Gent, Prim.
 XXIX 293
nm to Miss. Indeed, Miss, yourpapa —
Dr gentleman! upon my Word, those
Lthematics — I feared what stwould come — indeed you should have some Advice miss. No danger, Mr. Prim, I hope —. pa is indeed sometimes vassly whimsical:
: soon comes to himfelf he’ll be
11 again to morrow you may leave
: Silk tho’, for I am determined to have it. Prim. Madam, your moss devoted —
ir Will is alaw — I am eternally ob
ited, c. s^c. [Exeunt.
T Note.
( 294)
Note. The following Jive Letters were given me by the Author of the Preface. Ifiould have thought this Hint unnecessary, had not much Nonsense and Scurrility been unjufly imputed to him by the Good judgement cr good nature of the Age. They can know but little of his Writings, who want to have them pointed out; but they kmw much less of him, who impute any such base and scandalous produbions to his Pen,
 L
Valentine to David Simple.
Dear David, [London, Decern. 20.
IN Compliance with your Request:, I sit down to write you my Sense of the present State of the Town, tho’ I fear what I have to say will serve but as little
Inducement
 L 295
ducement to you, to give us your com ny here.
T o begin then with Politics, on which ad I shall be extremely short; The ad niftration of our public Affairs is, in my inion, at present in the Hands of the •y Men, whom you, and every honest rfon would wish to be entrusted with it. nongst those, tho’ there is no absolute ime Minister, yet there is one, whose Gets must always make him the Superior every Society, as he hath joined to the )st penetrating Wit, the clearest Judge; nt both in Men and Things, and the )soundest Knowledge of them, of any in, whom, perhaps the World ever
V
This is indeed multum in pafvo, and 11 be abundantly Sufficient to cheer you that Love, which I know you stncerely ar your Country z for this will thrive in ixq different Branch, as the Several bran es are governed and directed by Men of Dper and adequate Ability.
T 4 And
29  XL
And, if Arguments a pojieriore may corroborate the Opinion I have above given, surely we are furnished with great Plenty. What but a Genius of the highest kind could hav e preserved Ireland in a perfect State of Tranquillity and Obedience during the late Troubles! Or what could have restored this Nation from that drooping and languid Fit of Despair, which So lately appeared in every honest Countenance, to those cheerful Expectations, which the present Prospect of Things affords us
From the abovementioned Reason, I suppose you will conclude, that the great and important Article of Religion is in the most stouristiing Situation; and, to say the Truth, as to the external Part, which most properly belongs to the Heads of the Church to regulate, there is no apparent Deficiency; but with regard to Morality, which may be considered as the internal Part, I freely own, I believe no Age or Nation was ever sunk to a more deplorable State.
One
 L 297
) N E great Cause of this, I conceive y be that Luxury which of late Years h rolled in like a Deluge upon us:
¦ the greatest Estates being barely fuf mt to satisfy the Demands of so out eous a Monster, the Hearts of the Opu: are of necessity Shut to the Wants of ir Fellow-creatures, and Liberality, nay n Hospitality, are banished from among while Men of Smaller Fortunes are pushed to all Acts of Meanness and mifcre ifm, in order to supply themselves with Means of imitating their Superiors, nee arises a total Disregard to all true >nour and Honesty; hence every kind of rruption and Prostitution, no Man being Lamed of anything but the Appearance Poverty.
Now whence doth this proceed, but tm our Morals being in wrong Hands? le Wit and Genius being in a manner defect, and Impostors advanced in their ace.
In
29  XL
In reality, what the Ministry are to the State, the Bishops to the Church, the Chancellor and Judges to the Law, the Generals to the Army, and the Admirals to the Fleet; that is a great and good Writer over the Morals of his Countrymen.
The Truth of this Observation will appear, if it be constdered, that there is a strict Analogy between the Taste and Morals of an Age; and Depravity in the one always induces Depravity in the other.
True Taste is indeed no other than the Knowledge of what is right and sit in everything. It cannot be imagined therefore, that one capable, of discerning this in all lesser Matters, should be unable to perceive it in that highest and noblest Object the Human Mind.
When therefore we see a salse Taste prevail in all things else, we may naturally conclude it exists here likewise.
The
 L 299
The first great Corrupters of our Taste s the virtuofo’s, a sort of People with hich we abound to so prodigious a de ee, that their Dexterities engross almost ir whole Conversation, these are a kind ‘ burlesque natural Philosophers, whose ndeavours are not to discover the Beauties, it the Oddities and Frolicks of Nature, hey are indeed a Sort of natural Jugglers, hose bufiness it is to elevate and surprise, 3t to Satisfy, inform, or entertain.
The next great bufiness of the Age is lufick; of our Taste in which I need Say 3 more, to give you an adequate Idea, than arely to inform you we have Operas, in shich Mr. Handel is totally filent.
Architecture, Painting and Sculpture annot fail of Encouragement in an Age evoted to Luxury. In these therefore we nitate the Extravagance of the Romans, nd the Delicacy of the Goths,
These however astist in forming the subjects of our conversation j and it is dif 3 ficult
30  XL
ficult to find a single Person who is not a Connoisseur in them all j and this often without knowing the common Rules of the Art in which he affects to be a Judge.
I C o M E now to the Theatres, of which you will doubtless expect a more favourable Account. And indeed our Actors promise no less;; of these being equal to any of their Predecessors, and some, I believe, superior to any who have ever been. But so artfully is the Theatre conducted in the Choice of Plays, and the Casting of Parts, that I have seldom sufficient Inticement to visit it.
Half a dozen Tragedies, two of which were Jane Shore and the Fair Penitent, furnished the Entertainment of a Month this Winter at Covent-garden: So that we were obliged either to visit the Theatre seldom, or to be dieted with the same Dish. Nor did Drury-lane give us any Relief; for that Theatre, instead of treating us with another kind of Dramatical Food, very wisely attempted to emulate the best Actors of Covent-garden in their best Parts; and
vainly
 L 301
ily endeavoured to rival one who never, nor, I believe, ever will have an Equal.
low much more judicious would it e been in that House to have applied tnfelves to the Revival of several of our Comedies, to which their Company is well adapted. Mr. Barry, who seems lave all the Materials of a good Actor, jht then have gained Applause, without Danger of a disadvantageous com ifon. Mr. Cibber and Mr. jmacklin could have failed of pleasing; nor would the; Genius of Mrs. Clive (inimitable in all mostr) have been lost and forgotten by Folly and Ingratitude of the Town.
A is pity, I think, that the Legislature not interfere, and put the Conduct of I so noble, so rational, and so useful a rerfion, into Hands more capable of con ding it • by which means public en ainment and Example might be rather fidered in Theatrical Performances, than acquiring immense Fortunes to private Sons, who will make it more their Business

30  XL
finest to indulge, than to correct a vicious or bad Taste, when such prevails.
'Till Something of this kind is done, the Theatre can never truly fiourilh, nor the World reap so much either of the useful or the Delightful from it, as it is capable of affording; but the Fustian of • Lee and Row, with French and Italian Buffoonery, will in a great measure monopolise the Stage.
This Regulation is then to be wished j but I am afraid it is to be despaired of: For as to the few truly Great Men whom this Age hath produced, either the Necessity of the Times, or their own Inclinations, have totally diverted them from any Thoughts of this kind. They are themselves far from wanting Taste, (for none can be in reality a Great Man without it) but they will give themselves no trouble to reform that of the Public; thinking it probably of much less consequence to the Good of Society than it hath always appeared to the Wife of former Times.
And
 L 303
And if the Theatres be totally overiked by them, it is no wonder that every ler Branch of the Republic of Letters Duld meet with equal Disregard. This notoriousty the Cafe; for I think I ly affirm with Truth, that there is no e Patron of true Genius, nor the least ^ icouragement left for it in this Kingdom.
IF I was writing to a Sneerer, I might prehend he would answer, by inverting e Complaint, and say, that there was no le Genius at present to patronise.
This in fact is not the Cafe; but adit that it was, the Reason would still be e Want of Encouragement; and indeed may here apply the Answer of a Garner to his covetous Master, who was igry that he had no Cucumbers in his arden : How Should you have Cucumbers,
T, said the Gardener, when you know you old not afford a Hotbed to raise them
Plants
3^  XL
Plants of this tender kind should be carefully watched when they first appear, and placed in warm Situations, if we expect any ripe and good Fruit from them. The cold Air of Neglect nips and destroys them; nor can their Shoots be ever strong and stouristiing in a poor hungry Soil, which denies them Nourishment at the Root.
There have been indeed some Instances of Men of a very rare and singular Strength of Genius, which (to resume my Allegory) have stourished in the poorest Soil, and bid defiance to the frosty Breath of the World; but they make a very thin Appearance in History : and even of these few or none perhaps ever arrived at the full Perfection of which they were capable.
'Till some Patron then of the Muses shall again arise in this Nation, you will not be very curious in inquiring after their Productions. When I meet with any Performance untainted with Profaneness, Indecency, Slander, or Dullness, I will certainly send it you.
One
 L 305
One Particular, I think, now only re nains to be Spoken to; namely, the pri ate amusement of Persons in their own louses. This, my Friend, consists of one l.rticle only, viz. whisk, a Game So uni ersally in vogue, that there are few persons rho do not play two or three Rubbers very Day.
Several get a Livelihood, and others f consequence injure their Fortunes by lese means; but much the larger Number lay with Such equal success, and for Such considerable Stakes, that they lose nothing lore than the Card money and their Time.
O F which latter, I am afraid, you will ink I have already borrowed too much Dm you. I Shall therefore conclude, by furing you
I am. See. ¦ VALENTINE.
vol. II U
( 30^)
L E T T T E R XLI
A LETTER from a French Gentleman to his Friend at Paris; in Imitation of Horace, addison, and all other Writers of travelling Letters.
Done into English.
Monjieur,
At Whitehall we took a Pair of Oars for Putney. these we had indeed Some Difficulty to procure; for many refused to go with us farther than Foxhall or Ranelagh Gardens. At last we prevailed with two Fellows for three Half crowns to take us on board.
I Have
 LI 307
I H Ave been told there was formerly Law regulating the Fares of these peo e; but that is to be sure obsolete. I think pity it was not revived.
As the Weather was extremely fine, s did not regret the tide’s running against, since by that means we had more op irtunity of making Observations on the lest River in the World except the Seine.
After taking a Survey of the New ndge, which must be greatly admired by who have not seen the Pontneuf, we st by a Row of Buildings, not very re arkable for their Elegance, being chiefly lit of Wood, and irregular. Many of em are supported by Pillars; but of what rder we could not plainly discern.
W e came now to Lambeth, where is a ilace of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the etropolitan of England. This is a vast le of Building, not very beautiful indeed its Structure, but wonderfully w ell cal lated, as well to signify, as to answer the U 2 Use
3o  XLI
Use for which it was, I suppose, originally intended j containing a great Number of little Apartments for the Reception of travelling and distressed Chrijiians.
Lambeth is perhaps So called from Lamb, which is the Type of Meekness.
The next Place of Note, as we ascend this River, is fox ilah, or rather Sox hole, the first Syllable of which is corrupted into Vaux by the Vulgar, who tell a foolish Story of one Vaux who resided here, find attempted to blow up the Thames’ But the true Reading is Fox hole, as appears by an ancient Piece of Painting, representing that Animal whence it takes its Name, and which is now to be seen on a high wooden Pillar, Anglice a Signpost, not far from the Landing place.
A V E R Y little further stands marble hau, of which we had a full View from the Water. This is a most august Edifice, built all of a rich Marble, which reflecting the Sunbeams, creates an Object too dazzling for the Sight.
Having
 LI 309
Having passed this, we vere enter ned with a most; fupeish Piece of archi sture of white, or rather yellow Brick, lis belongs to one of the Bourgeois, as indeed most of the Villas which border both fides this River, and they tend to give magnificent an Idea of the Riches which iw in to these People by Trade, as the lipping doth, which is to be seen below e Bridge of London.
Hence a Range of most delicious mea ?ws begins to open, which, being richly lamelled with Flowers of all kinds, seem contend whether they shall convey most easure to your Sight or to your Smell, ur Contemplation was however diverted Dm this Scene by a Boat, in which vere VO young Ladies extremely handsome, ho accosted us in some Phrase which we, ho thought ourselves pretty good Masters the English Tongue, did not understand, 'hey were answered however by our wa rmen, who afterwards told us, that thig called Water language; and consequent r, I suppose, not to be learn’d on Shore.
U 3 Tf^
31  XLI,
V
The next Place which presents itself on the Surry Side (for I reserve the other Shore for my Return) is the pleasant Village of Battersea; the true Reading of which we conjectured to be Betterfee; and that it was formerly a Bishopric, and had the Preference to Shelfee, of which we shall Speak anon. It is chiefly famous at present for affording a Retreat to one of the greatest Statesmen of his Time, who hath here a magnificent Palace.
From Betterfee, verging to the Southwest, stands tvanfor, as it is vulgarly called; but its true Name was undoubtedly ivindmill shore, from whence it is a very easy Corruption; and several Windmills are yet to be found in its Neighbourhood. Here are to be seen a Parish church, and some Houses; but it is otherwise little worth the Curiosity of Travellers.
A s you sail from hence, two lofty Towers at once salute your Eyes from opposite Shores of the River, divided by a magnificent wooden Bridge. That on the Surry
Shore
 LI 311
lore is called Putney Or Putnigh, a fair id beautiful Town, consisting principally one vast Street, which extends from North South, and is adorned with most beauti l Buildings.
Here we went ashore, in order to re le ourselves in one of their Houses of itertainment, as they are called; but in ility there is no Entertainment at them, sre were no Tarts nor Cheefecakes, nor y sort of Food but an English Dish called ^eadandcheefe, and some raw Flesh.
But if it be difficult to find anything to ay Hunger, it is still more so to quench ur Thirst. There is a Liquor sold in s Country which they call Wine, (most the Inhabitants indeed call it Wind.) Of lat Ingredients it is composed I cannot I; but you are not to conceive, as the ord seems to import, that this is a tranf ion of oun French Word Vin, a Liquor ide of the Juice of the Grape; for I am •y well assured there is not a Drop of 'f Such Juice in it. There must be many ^redients in this Liquor, from the many U 4 different
31  XLI
different Tastes; some of which are Sweet, others Sour, and others bitter; but though it appeared So nauseous to me and my Friend, that we could not Swallow it, the English relish it very well; nay, they will often drink a Gallon of it at a Sitting; and Sometimes in their Cups (for it intoxicates) will wantonly give it the Names of all our best Wines.
^ However, though we found nothing to eat or drink, we found Something to pay. I Send you a Copy of the Bill produced us on this Occasion, as I think it a Curiosity:
s. d.
For Bred and Bear -- -- -- o 8
Eating — -- -- 2 o
Wind — -- -- 5 o
Watermens Eating and Lickor j 6
9 2
So that, with the Drawer, we were at the Expense of ten Shillings; though no Catholic ever kept an ajhavednejday better.
The Drawers here may want Some Explanation : You must know then, that in
this
 LI 313
is Country, in whatever House you eat drink, whether private or public, you J obliged to pay the Servants a See at ur Departure, otherwise they certainly iront you.
These Fees are called Vails; and they ve instead of Wages : for though in pri te Houses the Master generally contracts th his Servant to give him Wages, yet ffe are seldom or never paid; and indeed Wails commonly amount to much more.
From Putnigh we crossed over to the ^ ler Shore, where stands the fair and lutiful Town of Pull home, vulgarly called iham. It is principally remarkable for ing, the Ressdence of a bishop; but a ge Grove of Trees prevented our feeing; Palace from the Water.
These two Towns were founded by 0 Sisters; and they received their Names im the following Occasion. these Las being on the Surry Shore, called for a at to convey them across the Water. The atermen being somewhat lazy, and not
coming
31  XLI
coming near enough to the Land, the Lady who had founded the Town which stands in Surry, bid them put nigh; upon which her Sister irnmediately cried out, A good Omen j let Putnigh be the Name of the Place. When they came to the other Side, she who had founded the other Town, ordered the Watermen to push the Boat full home; her Sister then returned the Favour, and gave the Name of Full home to the Place.
Here stands a most stately and magnificent Bridge. We inquired of the Watermen by whose Benefaction this was built. Benefaflion, do you call it? says one of them with a Sneer; I heartily wish ikhad been by mine; there hath been a fine Parcel of Money got by that J o b; a Name which the English give to all Works of a public Nature : For so grateful are these People, that nobody ever doth anything for the Public, but he is certain to make his Fortune by it.
W e now returned by the Shore of mid dlefex, and pasted by several beautiful Meadows where the new mow’d Hay would 3 have
 LI 315
ve wonderfully delighted our Smell, had not been for a great Variety of dead Dogs, its, and other Animals, which being m tiful ly bestrewed along this Shore, a od deal abated the Sweetness which must ve otherwise impregnated the Air.
W E at length arrived at Shelfee, a cor ption from Shallow See; for the Word illow lignifies empty, worthless. Thus a illow Purse and a Jhallow Fellow are Words Contempt. This, formerly, was doubt's a small Bishopric, and inferior to that the other Side the Water, which was lied Betterfee.
Here are many things worthy the cu ?fity of Travellers. This Place is famous : the Residence of Don Saltero, a Spanish obleman, who hath a vast Collection of sorts of Rarities; but we had not time see them.
Here is likewise a Walk called Para Q row, from the delightful Situation, and e magnificent Buildings with which it is orned. We had certainly gone on stivore
to
3i  XLI
to admire the Beauty of this Walk; but here being no Landing place, we must have Spoiled our Stockings, by stepping into the Mud; and were besides informed, that the Road was so abominably dirty, that it would b.c. difficult to cross; the rather, as it Seemed entirely stopped up by a great Number of Dust carts.
A Little farther stands an hofpi tal, or rather a Palace, for the Reception of old and wounded Soldiers. A Benefaction of So noble a kind, that it really doth honour to the English Nation. Here are Some very beautiful Apartments, which they told us belonged to the Officers; a Word which led us into a Mistake, as we afterwards discovered: For we imagined that these Apartments were allotted to those Gentlemen who had born Commissions in the Army, and who had, by being disabled in the Service, entitled themselves to the public Favour; but on farther Inquiry, we were surprised to find there was no Provision at all for any Such 3 and that these Officers were a certain Number of
Placemen,
 LI 317
icemen, who had never born Arms, nor d any military Merit whatever.
Beyond this stands Ranelagh, of which J shall say no more, than that it is a very ge round Room, and will contain abun nce of People. This is indeed a suffi: nt Recommendation to the English, who ver inquire farther into the Merit of any iverlion, when they hear it is very much jquented. A Humour, of which we saw any Instances: all their public Places : ing either quite empty of Company, or crowded, that we could hardly get to lem.
Hence Sailing by a Shore where we w little very remarkable. Save only the arcades of Animals, which were here in such greater plenty than we had before )und them, we arrived at a Place called lilubank or Mile bank; and soon after : e passed, as we were informed, by the enate houfes: but though we went within few Yards of them, we could not discern 7ith any Certainty which were they.
Having
3i  XLI
Having again Shot (as they call it) the New Bridge, we saw the Palace of a Nobleman, who hath the Honour to be a Duke of Prance as well as of England, and the Happiness to be greatly esteemed in both Countries.
Near this Palace stands that of another Duke, who, among other great and good Qualities, is reputed the most benevolent Man in the World.
A Little further we Saw the Palace of an Earl, of a very high Character likewise among his Countrymen; and who, in Times of Corruption, hath maintained the Integrity of an old Roman.
The Palaces of these three Noblemen, who do a real Honour to their high Rank, and who are greatly beloved and respected by their Country, are extremely elegant in their Buildings, as well as delightful in their Situation; and, to be stneere, are the only Edifices that discover any true Taste, which we saw in all our Voyage.
We
 LI 319
V E now approached to Plunger ford -- irs, the Place destined for our landing; sre we were entertained with a Sight r common, it seems, in this Country: is was the ducking a Pickpocket. When
were first told this, we imagined it; ht be the Execution of some legal Seri -: e; but we were informed, that his jcutioners had been likewise his Judges.
V o give you some Idea of this, (for it is )ostible for any one who doth not live what they call a free Country, to have adequate Notion of a Mob) whenever a kpocket is taken in the Fact, the Person
0 takes him calls out Pickpocket. Upon ich Word, the Mob, who are always at id in the Street, assemble; and having ird the Accusation, and sometimes the fence, (though they are not always very ct as to the latter, judging a good deal
Appearances) if they believe the Acer, the Prisoner is sentenced to be ducked;
1 this Sentence is immediately executed th such Rigour, that he hardly escapes th his Life.
The
32  XLI
The Mob take Cognizance of all other Misdemeanours which happen in the Streets, and they are a Court, which generally, endeavours to do Justice, though' they sometimes err, by the hastiness of their deci fions. Perhaps it is the only Court in the World, where there is no Partiality arising from Respect of Persons.
They are great Enemies to the Use of Swords, as they are Weapons with which they are not entrusted. If a Gentleman draws a Sword, tho’ it be only in terro rem to defend himself, he is certain to be very severely treated by them; but they give great Encouragement to their Superiors, who will condescend to Show their Courage in the way which the Mob themselves use, namely, by Boxing, of which we Shall presently show you an Instance.
Our Boat was now with some difficulty close to the landing place; for there was a great Crowd of Boats, every one of which, instead of making way for us. Served
to
 LI 321
endeavour to keep us out. Upon this : caston many hundred Curses passed be reen our Watermen and their Fellows, d not a few Affronts were cast on us, pecially as we were dress: after the man r of our Country.
At lass we arrived safe on shore, where i paid our Watermen, who grumbled at r not giving them Something to drink irall the labouring People of this Coun ^ apply their Hire only to Eatables, for rich reason they expect fornething over and 7ve to drink.)
As we walked towards the Strand, a •ayman run his Whip directly into my iend’s Face, perhaps with no Design of ing this, but at the same time, without y Design of avoiding it. My Friend, 10 is impatient of an Affront, immedi: ly struck the Carter with his Fist, who empted to return the Favour with his hip; but Monsieur Bellair, who is ex mely strong and active, and who hath rnt to box in this Country, presently )fed in with him, and trip up his Heels. vol. II X The
32  XLI
The Mob now altembled round us, • and being pleased with my Friend for not having drawn his Sword, inclined visibly to his fide, and commended many Blows which he gave his Adversary, and other Seats of Activity which he displayed during the Combat, that lasted some Minutes; at the End of which, the Drayman yielded up the Victory, crying with a Sneer —
D -- -- n you, you have been on the Stage, or
I am mistaken.
The Mob now gave a Huzza in my friend’s favour, and Sufficiently upbraided his Antagonist, who, they Said, was well enough Served for affronting a Gentleman.
Monsi e u R Bellair had on the begin iiing of the Scuffle, while the Enemy lay on the Ground, delivered his Sword to one of the by standers; which Person had unluckily walked off in the Crowd, without remembering to restore it.
Upon this the Mob raged violently, and swore Vengeance against the Thief, if
he
LET tfer XLI 323
e cbuld be discovered y but, as this could oath dole, he was obliged at length to ibinit to the loss.
When we began to depart, Several of ur Friends dtrhanded of trs^ Something to rinkbut, as vre Wct6 more out of hu lour with the loss, than pleased with the dory obtained, we could not be prevailed nth to open our Purses.
The Company were incensed at this, e were saluted with the Titles of Moun -- ire, and other contemptuous Appellations; veral missile Weapons, such as Dirt, egan likewise to play on us, and we were oth challenged to fight by several, who )ld my Friend, tho’ he beat the dray lan, he was not above half a Man.
W e then made the best: of our way, id soon escaped into a Hackney coach.
Thus I have sent you a particular ac )unt of this Voyage, from some Parts of •hich you may perhaps conclude, that the .eanest Rank of People are in this Coun x 2 ‘ try
32  XLI
try better provided for, than their Superiors; and that the Gentry, at least those of the lower Class of that Order, fare full as well in other Places; for, to say the truth, it appears to me, that an Englishman in that Station, is liable to be oppress by all above him, and insulted by all below him. V
1 am, c.
N
( 325)
 LII
'rom Miss Prudentia Flutter to Miss Lucy Rural.
unday Morning, Seven d. Clock, juji out of Bed
Dear Lucy,
[SHOULD have writ to you sooner, according to my Promise, but I have ot had one moment’s Time since I came D Town, till now; and, if I had not taken he opportunity of a Sunday, I don’t be eve I Should have been able to write till had seen you, which I hope, my Dear, fill be a long Time hence, unless you can erfuade your Papa to let you come to sown.
X 3 Well
32  XLII
Well then, to begin. After a tedious Journey of five Days, my Papa and Mamma, and myself and Alice, arrived Safe in charming London, Poor Mamma was lick upon the Road, and could not eat j so we brought half our Cake, almost: a whole Turkey, great Part of a Ham, and a Mutton pie quite through.
And now, my Dear, I must tell you, we have taken a Lodging in Pall mall, which is to serve us for the present; but my Mamma says it won’t do, for she wants a whole House to herself in thingamy sc^u are. Papa looks a little grim, but I believe Manama will get the better, for she has cried about it twice already.
I H A y E been only at four Plays yet, so I can’t give you much Opinion about them; but the Elay house is a charming Place, I can affure you; fuph a many Candles rpakes one look so gim; and there is such a Number of fine Gentlemen, I never saw. And the Player men are fine Men too, and prodigiousty well dressed : There is one Sweet
Man
 EII. 327
Ian among them; I wanted to hear him ilk; but, tho’ he came upon the Stage weral times, he never once opened his louth. He is a Sweet Man; but this is oath, that all the Ladies are in love sith; for there is one Mr. Grick, that very body talks of, but nobody could tell le the Name of my Man, and yet he is tiler than Mr. Grick by almost a Foot, I warrant you : I afk’d a young Lady, who tt by me, his Name, and she answered le, he was nobody; I assure her he was andsomer than anybody.
O, But, my Dear, I must tell you; lere is one Colonel Sprucely, who is got) well acquainted with Mamma already, lat they are almost always together, efpe ially when papa’s not at home. I am [Ways sent out of the Room when he Dmes; but if I had my handsome player lan with me, I Should not envy her his Company.
I Warrant you will stare, to hear le ovrn I think a Man handsome; but it X 4 is
32  XLII
is all the Fashion, and there is no harm in it here : I vras a little ashamed the first day or two, but good Company soon teaches us better. Dear Lucy, do, come to Town; for a Country Girl is a horrible awkward Creature.
O, Dear London, it is quite another World. Was I to mention half our Diversions to you, you would not even know the Names of them. Here are Drums, and Routs, and Hurricanes. Mamma intends to have a Drum, as soon as we get into a tolerable House; for we have but one poor nasty Diningroom, where we are, and a Drum can’t be made without three, at least.
I Warrant now, I have fet you a gueshng what a Drum is; nay. i’ll leave you a thousand Years to guess what it is made of — To Satisfy your Curiosity then, it is made of a great many Rooms, and a great many Tables, and a great many Candles, and a great many People — O, stis a charming thing: and, as Mamma told
Papa,
 LII 329
apa, we had better be out of the World, lan not have a Drum.
O, But I promised to write about the burt; ay, but we have not been able to D there yet : for, tho’ Mamma laid out) much Money in Clothes last: Year, every ling must be pulled to pieces, before it fill do. Would you believe it. Child, ly best Hoop wants above three Yards f being anything decent. Not one Rag f our Laces will do, for they are not ear fine enough to be seen in; so we lave thrown away a fine deal of Money s well as Time, to no purpose in the Country; but Mrs. Modijh the Millener, nd Mrs. Tabby the Manteau maker, have )romifed to remedy all soon j So, that in bout a Week more, we hope to be fit to ppear in the best Company. My mam na’s Clothes will be prodigiousty hand bme: the Silk cost above three Pounds i Yard. Papa was at first a little out of lumour at the Price, but three Ladies happening to come in just at the Time, nade all that, matter easy, by telling him,
it
33  XLII
it was the csheapest Thing they ever saw in their Lives. She has bcspoke two other gow’ns and Petticoats, which Papa knows nothing of; for Mamma Says, Ihe may very likely win Money enough to pay for them. I have new Clothes bespoke too, but they are So Shockingly plain, I am ashamed to mention them. But now T must: tell you a Secret. I was at the Opera last Night, and more fine Gentlemen talked to me, than to any of the finest dressed Ladies there— — assure you, miss; nay, they admired my Clothes too, I promise you, and yet I had only the old Shocker on: thinks I to myself, you will like me better soon. As for the Opera itself, I did not understand a Word of it, and I had rather hear you fing the Lass by the Brow of the Hill; but Mamma says, everybody likes it, and so I like it too; for, to be genteel, you must do what everybody does.
I Believe I had more to tell you; but the Colonel is just gone, and Mamma has Sent for me — and just this minute there
is
 LII 331
a great Rap at the Door. I believe me People of Quality are coming up, so haste, I conclude.
Tour affedlionate.
Humble Servant,
PRUDENTIA FLUTTER.
( 332)
__
 LIII
From Miss Lucy Rural to Miss Prudentia Flutter.
Dear Prue,
IH A V E been detained from reading your agreeable Letter the whole Evening, by being in Some very merry Company, where we have had a Game of Chrijimafs Gambols: Jack Bonny was with us; and you know his comical Humour never fails of making everybody happy where he is. And to Say the truth, my Dear, I believe you have not Spent So pleasant an Evening since you left us.
Indeed
 LIII 333
Indeed, dear Prue, So far from having y Opinion raised of the Town Pleasures''
'' you write, I am the more con nced of the Impertinence and Stupidity a Town life; and that we are not only ore innocent, but much more merry and ippy in the Country.
As to Plays, which are the only rational mufement you mention, you know I am ry fond of them, and have often an pportunity of Seeing them within two dies of our House. I confess, they are obably better acted in London; but don’t; angry if I say, this Circumstance ems to have added very little to your en rtainment. I dare swear, we have as )od Actors as that dumb Gentleman you ention, whom I suppose to have been one ' the Gentlemen ushers to Alexander the reat, or some other Hero; and am very rry, he has made so deep an impref 3n on your Mind, which I impute to le notorious Demerit of the Beaus, ' whom, from the Accounts I have reived, I have no very high Opinion.
Sure
(
334-  LIII
Sure the Opera must be a very wretched Entertainment, or ybu Would nevei^ Suffer such Animals to divert your Attention from it.
I Own, my Dear, I have not much Idea of a Drum; and you’ll pardon me, if I Say, you don’t Seem to entertain any very perfect Notion of it yourself: However, I will endeavour to explain a Diversion to you, in which I Spent three evcniilgs in the Chrijimafs Holidays, and which I shall call a Trumpet; partly, in allufibn to your Drum, and partly, as it was our chief Instrument of Music; tho’ I do not find, you can give So good a reason for the Name of your Assembly.
You must know then, that on the Day after Chrijimafs, I dined at Sir Thomas iieartfd. where we had a great deal of good Company. There were present. Sir Thomas and my Lady, who are, you know, a very fond Couple, greatly happy in them * and very desirous of Seeing every other person So; the other Men were. Sir Roger Fairfield, Mr. Woodly, Mr. Green,
3 Mr.
 LIII 335
*. Jones, Dr. Gaylove, Jack Bonny, and Thomas’^ Chaplain: the Women were, ides her ladyship of the House, Old dy Cheerful, Mrs. Woodly, Mrs. Green, ifs Fairfield, Miss Cheerful, Miss Jermy irfield, Miss Betsy Fairfield, and your mble Servant.
While we were at our Tea, Sir Though IS came to us from the Men, and prosed a Diversion for the Evening, which is readily agreed to by the whole com ny. This was a Trumpet, or, to explain to you in a Term you are better ac lainted with, it was to go a mumming.
Two Hours were now spent in dressing rfelves, and, I do affure you, they were TO very agreeable ones. My Lady Cheer /, who has, you know, all the good imour, without any of the Passions of outh, was dress; up for the Witch of en r, and made a Figure so ridiculous, that can hardly help laughing, when I reflect it. Let me tell you, it is no little idication of good fenfe and good nature 0, in a Woman of any Age, to submit
to
/
33  XLIIL
to make her Person disagreeable. Miss Betty Fairfield was dressed as a Shepherdess, and made a most lovely Appearance. Your humble Servant contented to be a Nun, but remember it was only in jest.
A T Seven in the Evening, we were joined by the Men, who had likewise disguised themselves in various antic Dresses. Every Man chose his Woman, as well as he could guess, for we were all mafqued.
• Sir Thomas fell to the share of the Witch, and your Friend the Nun became the Property of Friar Jack Bonny.
A Wa ggon and Six now attended at the Gate, to which we were led by our several Partners; a Band of Music, with a Trumpet at their head, preceding.
Sir Thomas undertook to be Master of the Ceremonies, and the Wagon was ordered to drive to Mr. warmgrovd.d. which is, you know, about three Miles distant from Sir thomas’s. It is almost impossible to describe the Pleasantness of our Ride; Mustc and Lights made the Gloom of the
Night
 LIII 337
Night more delightful than the Day; and So much good-humour, Mirth, and Wit too, I promise you, prevailed in our Wagon, that our Journey past almost in one continual Laugh. Perhaps there is not a more agreeable Creature upon Earth, than Jack Bonny
Well; when we arrived at Mrs Wafnu rrove'd. we found a large Hall well lighted Jp with a Swinging Fire prepared for us; or Sir Thomas, who has a great deal of rue politeness, without any of the Foppery which pastes for it in Some Places, lad Sent timely notice to his Friend of our htention. We were received at the Gate )y Mr. Warmgrove and his Lady, and : onducted into the Hall, where Wine and dakes were immediately brought us, With hefe having regaled ourselves for Some ime, and Some Scenes of Mirth having lasted, on account of the Mistakes which vere made in guesses at our several per bns, the Ball was begun by Mr. Wartn^^ rove and Mrs. Green, who was dressed in
Suit of Lady Hearty’^ Clothes, and past br her all the first Part of the Night. vol. II y At
23  XLIII
At Twelve we were conducted to a noble Supper, where we all unmask’d, and the Night concluded with so much Mirth and Jollity, that I believe no Set of Company ever past a pleafanter.
We have stnce had two more Frolics of the same kind, of which I will not tyre you with the Repetition; tho’ Sir Thomas, who has Shown an excellent Taste for these Diversions, took care to give them a Variety, which greatly added to their Entertainment.
And now, my Dear, what do you think was the Consequence of all this? Why, Sir Roger hath very honourably declared himself to Miss Cheerful, and Miss baty Fairfield hath received a formal Visit from the Doctor; but, what is worst of all, I wish the poor Nun be not seduced by a wicked Friar to forsake the holy Veil. To be short, and to show you, we Country Girls can sometimes own what we are not ashamed of, as well as you Town Ladies, if I write you after next Thursday, 1 shall sign my Letter by a strange Name.
If
 LIII 339
If you Should laugh at all this, as )untry Simplicity, or whatever elfe you safe to call it, I shall have the satif stion of thinking, I have afforded you lat the Town cannot; for, by your Let ’, you do not seem to have laughed ce you left us. If you meet with any ing moi’e entertaining, I know you will idilycommunicate it to your Friends; if
t, we shall have the pleasure of ex cting you the sooner, which, I do affure.
u, will be most acceptable to.
Dear Prue,
Tour sincere Friend,
And affebionate humble Servant, LUCY RURAL.
S. Old George desires me to acquaint you, he has sent the Bacon, Cheese, Butter and Eggs, as ordered, by the Wagon; he has likewise sent a Hare, wildfowl, Partridges, and other Game : the Bees and Mutton,
Beer and Cyder %vill go the next time. George laughs, and says, ‘ Sure, there is nothing good in that same ‘ London.
Y 2
( 340)
UL -- -- -- -- -- -- -
 LIV
Valentine to Cynthia.
At the Bath.
tho ugid ill natured Accidents sometimes tear the person of my dearest Creature from my Eyes, nothing can remove her, even for a Moment, from my Thoughts
This I am certain She believes; and, unluckily for me, it is no Secret to the rest of my Acquaintance Hence 1 become often the Mark of that Raillery with which all People are armed against Love; a pas ston which no one will condescend to own t for Such a Confestion would reflect on the Modesty of your Sex, and Men constder it as no less an Imputation on their Understanding,
a
 LIV 341
I Must, however, do the Ladies the istice to own, that many of them haye nfe enough to despise this foolish opi ?n, and are not ashamed of being known love their Husbands: But I am afraid the samples pf sich Sincerity on our lide are uch rarer: For I solemnly declare, thp’ know several who love their Wives with eat Fondness, I scarce know one who is it ashamed of Sp doing.
This Treatment of a Passion to which owe the Sweetest: Pleasures of my Life, ways raises in me much Indignation; and never fail on such Occasions of defending e injured Cause, and of becoming the lampion of Love; though I generally eet with the Fate which attends all op >fers of vulgar Errors, and have the Re ird of being laughed at.
I Yesterday encountered a large com iny of both Sexes on this Subject; which had introduced, by having drank your ealth in a Bumper. I will not trouble )u with the many Blasphemies (for so I y 3 call
34  XLIV
call them) which were uttered against the divine Passion we both cultivate; but Shall draw up my Argument into the Form of a Speech, and will leave it to your Judgement whether it could or could not be answered.
Suppose me then to have made the following Speech on the Occasion:
“lam surprised at notlung more, than “that Love hath ever been reputed Folly, ‘‘ or that Men Slrould use Words with such Impropriety, as to call it a Weakness of the Mind.
“That to pursue perfect: Happiness, if we were capable of it, would be wif dom, no one will, I believe, have the “Confidence to deny; and if perfect Hap“ “be not attainable in this World, to “acquire to yourself the highest Degree of ‘‘ human Happiness, must, I think, be “esteemed the highest Degree of human Wisdom.
‘‘now, in my eye, Love appears alone “capable of bestowing on us this highest
y Degree
 LIV 343
• Degree of human Felicity. I solemnly ’ declare, when I am in possfeffion of my Wife, (here was a great Laugh) my ¦ Happiness wants no Addition. I think ' I may aver, it could receive none. I ’ conceive myself then to be the happiest: of Mankind; I am sure I am as ’ happy as it is possible for me to be.
“I T may be, perhaps, objected, that I have fet myself up as the Standard of ' true Judgement: that though I Should be sincere in what 1 say, yet this, which is.so great a Blessing in my Estimation, may in the Opinion of another be a very Slight and indifferent Matter; and that it appears otherwise to me, may be said to arise from that very weakness of Mind of which I would, avoid the Imputation,
“I Shall endeavour therefore to evince by reason, that Love, in the Mind which possesses it in the highest Degree, must create the highest Degree of human Happiness.
Y 4 ‘‘ First,
54  XLIV
First, then, it seems to me, that the full Gratification of that Passion which is uppermost in our Minds, is the highest y Happiness of which we are capable.
‘'secondly, it seems likewise, that one • ‘ Man is capable of being happier than another, in proportion as the Passion by which he is possessed (if I may so express myself) is more or less capable of this full Gratification,
Let us examine then by this Rule st those two great Motives to the Actions of Men, which in modern Language are ‘‘ called Passions, Ambition and Avarice : and if we can Show the Advantage which “Love hath oyer these, it will be abunr dantly Sufficient tp found those argu y ments which will effectually prove what “we have undertaken to prove, viz. that Love is not Folly, nor ought any Man to f‘ be ashamed pf its Possession and influence“
“when vre confider the great st Miseries which Ambifion and Avarice
“produce
 LIV 345
“produce to the World, we may, I “think, reasonably expect, thct they should “at the Same time make Some amends by the Good which they convey to the Bo soms which they inhabit,
“Whether they do this or no, I shall not enter into a commonplace Inquiry;; it is Sufficient for my purpose here, that neither of them are capable of a full Gratification : indeed, we may Say, of “any Gratification at all, since every Ac“ “to them both brings Desire along “with it: Desires which enlarge themselves in proportion to the Good ob st tained, and which exceed all Possibility“ “obtaining in the Same Degree as what “is already acquired hath exceeded Ex“ “Instead of proving this from “any trite known Stories, wish which all “Books, both of History and others “abound, I shall appeal for the Truth of it ‘‘ to common Experience, and to the Secret st Information of every Man's Breast, in st which either of these Passions have py st Place.
« In
34  XLIV
In Love it is far otherwise. This sweet Passion admits of instant complete “Gratification. Every Good conferred on, and received from, the beloved Object, “So fills the whole Mind with Pleasure, that it for a while leaves no wish unsa “tisfied. And if, after its Sweetest sa tieties, new Desires arise, these are not, “like those of Avarice and Ambition, “restless uneasy Perturbations; but So Sweet “‘and pleasant, that they bring Some Re“ “along with them.
‘'if Love then Should appear more eli“ “than either Avarice or Ambition, “as it is capable of receiving a fuller “Gratification, we may likewise argue its “Superiority, as it is capable of this gra tification two ways; either by giving or “receiving Good; as it proposes a certain ‘‘ End; ' as this End is generally not only possible, but easy, safe, and innocent; fel“ “attended with Difficulty, Danger, or “Crime to ourselves, or with any Mischief“ “others. In every one of which Lights
it
 LIV 347 “it is preferable both to Ambition and “Avariee.
ir
“lam aware, however, that I am here liable to an Objection not very different ‘‘ from what I have started above: for it “may be said I am still arguing to other“ “myself, and making my own Sen“ “the Criterion of their Happiness. ‘‘ Nay, it may be Said, that having ad ‘‘ mitted in my first Position, that the Hap“ “of Men consists in the Gratification “of whatever Pastion is uppermost in their “Minds, my Doctrine can be only useful“ “such, whose highest Pastion is Love; “and not at all applicable to those Votaries of Ambition and Avarice, who have “very weak, or perhaps no Traces of Love “in their Minds.
“This I readily concede, infisting “only on these two Points, that such Per“ “are less capable of Happiness than “the Lover, for the Reasons aforesaid“ “that the Lover, who is clear of all “the Impressions of Ambition and Avarice, ^ hath full as good a Right to call all the
‘‘ Pursuits
34  XLIV
Pursuits of Mankind which arise fron^ “those other Motives, Folly and Weakness“ “Mind, as the Slaves of those Passions “have of imputing to Such Folly and Weak“ “all the Energies of Love, rnerely because they never felt them.
“Life, to say the truth, without Some st strong pursuit; without propossng to our“ “Some principal End to which all “our Labours tend, is wretchedly insipid “rissng indeed very little above Vegeta “tion. Why then am I to be thus inst sspid, or to become the Slave of Am ‘‘ bition and Avarice, contrary to my In“ “? Or wshy am I obliged to “undergo all the Hardships which those Severe tafk masters impose on their Ser“ “have no Relish for the pitiful “Rewards which are by those two so nig gardly bestowed upon them? Why arn “I not to become the Subject of Love, to “whose Cause I am so well inclined, whose Labours are to me so easy, and whose“ “so extremely deliciouswhy • " must I be called a Fool, when I feel ^.vfelf perfectly happy, and that by those
y who
 LIV 349
who must, to themselves at least, ab" knowledge their own Misery??
‘‘ short, if Love be a Folly, it is so ** only in comparison of the Pursuits of those, who, disdaining the Imperfection, the Incertainty, and the tranlitory short Du ‘‘ ration of worldly Happiness, fix their “Attention on the perfect, certain, and “durable Enjoyments of Futurity; and who think Heaven only worthy to be the great “End of all their Actions. To such I “shall only say, I think they might with “great Safety take Love in their way: for ‘‘ surely, in my Sense of the Word, it would be so far from obstructing their " Journey, that it would only serve to give “them some Idea of the Blessings towards which they are travelling. But for the “Slaves of Ambition and Avarice to give st the Name of Folly to Love, is, in my opinion, a higher Degree of Insolence“ “for a drunken Fellow over his nasty Porter in an Alehouse to affect a con tempt for Gentlemen who are rioting st over Champaignff
I Thus
35  XLIV
Thus, my Dear, I have transcribed the Defence of this our favourite Passion. If I was not blefs’d in the Knowledge of your Partiality to me, I Should have some ap prehenfion that you might think me a weak Advocate in so good a cause, which you yourself could, I am convinced, defend so much better; but you will pardon me when I Say, if my Affection to, and Interest in everything, did not exactly attend yours, you would be much more interested in a Defence of Love than myself;; I have so much better excuse for the Violence of mine, in the singular Merit of its Object; but your goodness will still force your Judgement to think those deserving who endeavour to be So.
O F this Inclination to please you, therefore, I will give you one Instance, by quitting a Subject which I could dwell on for ever, the delightful Contemplation of your Superiority; since it is the only one in which I am capable of giving offence to her who is the Delight of my Eyes, the
Joy
 LIV 351
y of my Heart, my Admiration, my teem, and my Glory.
I am.
My Sweet,
With a Tenderness inexprejpble.
Tour fond and faithful Husband,
VALENTINE.
( 352)
A
VISION.
METHOUGHT I was conveyed into a large Plain; amongst Such Multitudes of Men and Women, that I could have no other Idea, than that all Mankind were assembled together.
At the End of this Plain at a little distance from each other, were four prodigious large high Gates, with a Ticket on each in full view. On the First was written, The Way to Wealth; on the Second The Way to Power; on the Third, The Way to Pleasure; and on the Fourth, The Way to Virtue, All the Company were employing themselves, in reading these Several
Tickets jt
A VISION. 353
rickets; but I observed at the very Sop of the Gates, other Words were writer! in such small Characters, that they were lifficult to be distinguished; On the First, • To Avarice; on the Second, To Ambition;
)n the Third, To Disappointment; and on he Fourth, To Pride: but these infcrip ions were overlook’d by almost every per bn there.
I W A s almost deafned with the con iifed Din of the Multitude, every one arguing strenuously, at which Gate it was best o enter: altho’ their Arguments might lave been Spared : for their Choice had leen visibly fixed before by Inclination; : ach having taken by the Hand the Guide, vho Sat before that Gate which he, or she, Tom the first intended to enter.
Curiosity led me to wish, I could bllow every Company; but, as that was m.postible to do at once, I resolved to fol ow first, the Guide to Avarice; a Monster : oo deformed to be. deferibed: but in Pathes up and down, on the wretch’s tat; ered Rags was inferibed; I lead to Wealth. vol. II Z These
si A V I S I O N.
These Words, like a kind of Charm, blinded the Eyes of all our Company, and in them, the Shocking ugliness of our Guide,
• whose Name, I afterwards found, was bour, was quite lost.
When the Gate was throwin open, ^ we had the greatest Difficulty imaginable, to advance the first Step: They call it but one Step, altho’ it is a Hill So steep and craggy, that nothing but immense Pains could Surmount it; and the Difficulty was still increased by those, who first .arrived at the Summit of the Hill; for it was their constant Custoin to face about, and throw Stones at their Fellow-travellers, III order to keep them down; nay, often to keep down those very Persons, by whose Assistance they had themselves got up. Indeed I observed, that, when any Set of People held together, and helped each other, it made the Way very easy to them all: But the general Method was, to keep others down, tho’ at the Expense of deferring iheiv »wn rise.
Whilst
A V I S I d N. 355
Wri I ffs't there was Such Toiling and Sweating to ascend the Hill, I perceived a little By path, unseen by any but myself, III •which I viralked up very easily. I asked the Guide the Meaning of this 5 when, lobking at nie vary earnestly, he told me, tbit he southwest I was but a Spectator, and cafisc'with thern only’ frofn Curiosity, and not from ahy Iricliiiation to Wealth; therefore his Tickets could not blind my Eyes, but I must have Liberty to explore all their Paths, and See Things as they really ivcte.
T H E Manner of matching of the whole Company was very particular; for, as the Path was narrow, they cofild not go many abreast, but e!xtestded a great length; and, instead of walking on as fast as they could, every third Step they kicked one Foot backward, to keep any other from coming near them; nor did any Tie of Nature or Obligation prevent their acting in this manner: Fathers kicked against Sons, and Brothers against Brothers; and whoever Z 2 went
356 A V I S I O N.
went one Step cut of the Path, scarcely ever found his way back again into it.
Several pleasant Walks and Seats were to be seen at a small distance, which now and then allured some of our Company from us, quite worn out with the long March, and not able to sustain the Fatigue any longer. This happened very Seldom, notwithstauding, except myself, they were all barefoot, and the Ground was so stoney, and so strowed with Thorns and Briers, that every Step must give Pain unutterable: however, the longer they journeyed, the easier became the Way. At last the Guide cried out; ‘‘ We are now come very near the Palace of Wealth, ‘‘ for behold many of its Inhabitants.’’ There were some few Men who looked rather half starved, than like the Inhabitants of the Palace of Wealth, who came bowing and scraping to our Company. The Respect paid them by these poor half starved Wretches, made them already forget the Pain of their Journey, and in these Submifijons they fancied they read their own great Riches: and indeed
these
A VISION. 357
hese Men paid their Respects according : o the perfon’s near Approach to the pa ace, and greatly lessened them to those, vho were far behind.
I Began to be impatient, and asked she Guide, how long it would be, before we should arrive: he laughed, and answered; The whole Company but yourself think we are already arrived, for behold the Palace there before you; “I give it the specious Name of the Pa“ “of Wealth, to allure my Followers, “and they are so blinded, that to them it looks like a Palace; but your Eyes being “open, you see plainly it is the Den of Avarice.”
By this time we were arrived at the Gate, (which was one great Piece of Iron) that gave Entrance to this hideous Place: The way to open it, was hid to all but to our Guide Labour, who had a Key that unlocked it presently. The Multitude crowded in with such Haste and Impetuoflty, to be foremost, that many, were trod to death in the Passage. The In fide of this Z 3 imaginary
3s8 a V I S I O N.
imaginary Palace, and real Den, was frightful to behold; Horrof, Affright, and Anxiety met us at the Door; and, taking our Guide by the Hand, said, they would lead us where we should meet our Reward. Many of us found great difficulty to follow; for the Roof w&s So low, that we were obliged to go almost double; at last we came to a little Room fb barricaded with Iron, that it looked like a Prison. Here Sat Avarice herself, but her Deformity was so very great, she did not care to appear to the Eyes, even of her Followers, but hid herself behind a large Stetue madp of massy Gold. Care Sat on a little Cushion piade of Nettles: on the one hand of her were Heaps of Bags of Gold, and on the other, Numbers of little Arrows So sharp t the Point, that their least Touch gave excessive Pain. Of these she had always a Supply from her own Bosom, So that they could never be exhausted.
All who had patiently born the Fatigue f the Journey, and could produce a Certificate under she Lady Pleasure's own Hand, that she had never in her life granted
A VISION. 359
jcd them any the least Favour, were to b.c. rewarded in this manner: Care, by the Gom, r mand of Avarice, W2S to heap on their Backs Bags of Money, till they could support, no more; and, notwithstanding to eyery Pag She fasten’d one of her Arrows in Such a manner, that it musc pierce the Person, on whom the Bag was lid, yet she was very seldom bid to leave off. Some few indeed did out of this Den, with as many Bags as they could carry; but I was told, they were not the true Votaries : o Avarice, only came that way (altho’ it was round about) in their Road to the Courts of Ambition, Pleasure, or Pride; to all vyhich the showing these Bags was i very good Passport; but all the rest bore he sharp Pains caused by the Arrows, and he Burden of the Gold, till Nature, at ength worn out. Sunk upder the Load, m.d. Death alone relieved them from that vlisery, which (poor deceived Wretches) hey palled their Reward.
Immediately, on any one’s de larture out of this Life, the next Heir ap leared, and carried off as much of the Z 4 Money,
360 A VISION.
Money, as he possibly could, Setting out with full Speed, to pleafure’s Court, where he muss: pay half his Wealth for his Admittance, and might soon meet with Opportunities of Squandering away the other Part.
After I had Seen Several Instances of the Same kind, I grew tired with the Reflection on the painful Reward these poor Wretches met with, for thus patiently wading through all the Dirt, and bearing the Torture of all the Thorns they found in their way to this dismal Place; and making what haste I could out of it, I hurried back to the Gates, where I presently mixed with a large Train, who were then just letting out for Ambition's Court.
The Guide to this was called Fallacy. and, at first ssght, appeared both in Height and Bulk, like a Giant or Giantefs; for the odd Mixture of its dress made it utterly undistinguissrable, whether it was Male or Female; but, when Curiosity had led me near it, and I wanted to know from its own Mouth whither, and to what sort of
Palace
A V I S I O N. 361
palace it was going to guide us, it Shrunk into a Shadow, and to my Sight the apparent Substapceimmediatly vanished. But still it had the same Power of Speech, although' in a very weak Voice; and told me, my Desire of knowing the real Truth, had given me power to See things as they were; but that to all the rest of the Company it appeared, as it had at first sight to me; for that their great Desire of finding it to be real Substance, had Such an Effect on their Sight, as made them believe it was So : “But, continued this Apparition, “I am not obliged to tell more of myself“ “you can find out; therefore I will “not answer another Question; but, when“ “you speak, lest you should corrupt “my Followers, I will order all the Drums,
Kettledrums, and Trumpets to strike ‘‘ up, and try if Noise cannot drown your “Voice."
This Road was much pleafanter than that which led to Avarice, and we should have gone a great deal faster, but that the whole Proceshon went sideways, each Individual fixing one Eye on the Guide, lest
he
362 A V I S I D N.
he Should lose his Way; and the other, on the Person next behind him, at the Same time holding a Sword at Arm's length, that his next Neighbour might not come near him. I observed in the Face of each person a visible discontent, at not being able to put by this Sword. Here and there indeed, a Person of very remarkable Activity leapt over the Sword, and the Bearer of it; When this happened, the Person so jumped over, setup a Huzza, which was echoed by all behind him, till they were all hoarfc, and had no Voice left. these Outcries Served to no manner of purpose; for the envied Man would not come back again, but triumphed in the Thought that he was got foremost.
In this manner we rnarched till wc came to the Palace. The Gates flew open at the Touch of our Guide; and I found no Welcome was thought too great for this unsubstantial Being; this creature’s Presence being necessary to keep the Court of Ambition from falling into the utmost Stupidity. The Moment it came near the Throne, it made a long Speech, to prove that happiness was only to be met with in
that
A V I S I G R 3%
shat Court. That Alexander the Great was a very great Man, j and if he had lived 'till shat time, might possibly, if no Accident had intervened, been Master of the World. That Jutius Ceefar might have been long Emperor of she Romans, if he had not been murdered, fdc. fic.. Then the Wretch ran out into a tedious descant on the hor rpr of Murder,, except 'when done to Serve she Great Princess Ambition; but said, that Design indeed made it laudable,. The Speech end^d, Applaufes resounded through the Palace; and evcty one fancied that he re iembled some of the Heroes therein mentioned. Ambition sat on her Throne, which every Art had conspired to adorn, clothed in Robes made so heavy with Lace and jewels, that they Seemed Sufficient to weigli her down; but when she rose and Spoke, fire made a noise not unlike the blustering of the Northern Winds, or the roaring of she foaming Sea. Her Arms were stretched beyond their natural Length, by continual Endeavours to reach at the Clouds; and her Eye strings were almost cracked, by being turned for ever upwards. Sometimes she vast Crowds of her Attendants, and the various cer^nronies fiie Submitted to.
364 A VISION.
in being always in public, almost tired Ambition herself, and gave her a moment's time for Reflection. But whenever that happened, a young Man clad in Robes of Gold advanced, and presented her a Schedule, which contained these Words: “My “great and dread een, foie Sovereign of innumerable Subjects, Commander of “Armies, Director of Sciences; may your ‘‘ Slave presume to remind you, that the Property of this Palace, which is the Admiration of the gazing Multitude, and “the Imitation of the greatest Artists in Painting, Sculpture, Architecture,
“is yours, and yours alone.’’ >
Ambition, at these Words, smiled Applause, and thought the Fatigue of Ceremonies, with all the Farce and Pomp of Show, too small a Tax to pay for such great and immense Advantages. Her Followers who had travelled long enough to reach the Palace, were thus rewarded. Fallacy blew a Trumpet; Drums, Kettledrums, all sorts of the loudest martial Mustek immediately strike up. A Phantom, called Fame, got up to the very Roof of the Palace,
A V I S I O N. 365
ice, and there fastened a Ladder of Ropes, s it appeared to me, (but to the rest a iroad Staircase, every Step being, in their i)yes, covered with Velvet, and adorned rith Diamonds) which was let down tp he Ground, and ambition’s Followers alj agerly pushed forwards to climb it. At the irst Step there was Such a Confusion and lustling, as made it difficult for any one 0 ascend: : the happy person who gained that, marched onward, whilst the rest bllowed him one by one, still disputing he first pass. It was remarkable, that every )northeast catched hold of one of the Legs of the i^erfon that was next before him, aid en leavoured with all his Force to throw him )ffthe Ladder. This sometimes Succeeded; ind Sometimes in the violent Tug to pull mother down, a Man So shook himself, hat unable to recover and poise himself igain, he was forced to accompany the i^erfon so pulled down in his Fall. To me hey all seemed to labour and sweat every 5tep; but I was told, that fixing their Eyes 3n the Fantom on the Top, they forgot, or rather were insensible of their Pain. On she Right hand of Same sat Self conceit,
who,
366 A V I S I O N.
who" ivas not seen to go up, but was born on Wings, and privately Seated there, before any of te Company Saw her. She held in her Hand a eooldhg glass, which had the Power of magnifying to shch a degree, that all who got high enough to look into it, thought themfeives test times as big as they were before: When the Ladder was full, as it was of a prodigious Length, (even front the bottom to the top of anr mtion’s Palace) It really was'a very odd Picture to see Such Numbers of People, (for the greatest Part, gf Mankind appeared tb be there) hanging on one another’s Legs, The happy Man wjio got first, as Soon as he could rt2c\i Same, and see himself irt the glass of selffconceit, for a few Mb ^ ments sat down contented, contemplating his own greatness. But whoever was next being enraged at the Distance; which all were obliged to keep from him, who had once gained thesummk of the Ladder, called Bw'iy from his Bosom, and Sent her Secretly to fasten a String to the Robes of this supposed happy Person, whom he stigmatised by every vile Appellation imaginable. Envy, as Soon as Sh dpne what she was
coma
VISION. 36y
jommanded, rah down the Ladder letting )ut the String every Step, and made each an forego his present Hold, and take his String in his Hand. As Soon as sti'e ivas at the bottom, the whole Company at : mce gave Such a tug, as staggered the Man ooking in the Glass in his Seat. It is true, they had Several Pulls, before they : outd get him down; but from the time le felt himself thus tottering. Fear and Anxiety poffefied him, and all his happi lefa was gone. Besides, by endeavouring 0 keep his Eyes fixed on the glass whilst le was So often Shaken, his Head turned juite giddy, and he Was disabled from taking he proper Methods for his own referva ion. At last, by one violent Effort, he vas thrown from this mucrh stnight fbr ieat to the very bottom, where a Gulf irefently opened, and fwalibwed him; and is his Place was immediately Supplied, he est no more Traces of him behind, than in Eagle does in the Air through which he has flown.
IT was very odd to me, that no Man, when he came near tshs Seat, reflected on
the
368 A V I S I O N.
the Fate of those who went before him; but thought his own Strength would infallibly Secure him from falling. When I had observed many Instances of the same kind, I concluded, that if I was to stay there for Ages, I should see no Alteration in the Management of ambition’s Palace; and therefore made the best of my way back again, and mixed with those who were hastening to the Court of pleasure.
This Road was So very broad, that we had two Guides, lest any of the Company should miss their way. One was in the Shape of a young Woman, curled, adorned, and painted in such a manner that she appeared exceeding handsome. She walked all the way backward; for behind she was as deformed as her Face was beautiful. Her Name was Illusion. The other was a little Boy like Cupid, only he was not blind; and instead of a Bow and Arrow, carried a Shield, on which was inscribed the Names of every Pleasure puf fued by Mankind. This he had an Art of turning so, as to Show to each Passenger the Name of his Favourite pleasure. He was 2 called
A V I S I O N. 369
called Hope, We travelled very fast. In : he way was a well built convenient Castle, 3leafantly sttuated, and on the Door was Written, Here is Amusement for whoever "hinks proper to come in.
We were met at our first Entrance by a niddlc aged Woman; who informed us her Marne was Ease. Her Behaviour was composed and cheerful, and her Dress decent ind becoming, without the least appearance Df Ostentation. She showed us the whole Iafle; and in every Room was a Set of Company, employing themselves as best suited their Taste and Fancy. For my part,
[ had a great mind to stay here; for the whole Train was invited So to do, (and indeed I thought they would have done wisely in accepting the Invitation. But this was not the Design bf our two Guides, // lufon and Hope, who entered into consultation to prevent the Number of their Followers being lefiened. To every Man who had a mind to lead a married Life, Ease offered an agreeable modest Wife, and to
vol. II A a each
\
370 A VISION.
each Woman who chose to enter into that State, an honest: good Husband.
Then came Hope, and turned his Shield to the Gentlemen, • Where was inferibed a Woman all perfebion. And to the Ladies appeared this charming Sentence, A Husband so violently in love, that he shall tranf form you into a Goddess, To those who chose a single Life, Ease offered a good collebion of Books, agreeable Companions, and Tranquillity; but Hope immediately showed them public Diversion, and an eternal Round of giddy Pleasures, to keep the animal Spirits .in a perpetual stutter. Those whose Delight was placed chiefly in Conversation, Ease showed into a Room, where they might meet with Men of Parts to converse with, almost: whenever they pleased, in moderate Hours. Tl i. was overcome by the Appearance on the Shield of Mirth at Midnight. It would be endless to enumerate the Particulars of this whole Struggle, it is sufficient that our Guides got th better; and our Company was greatly increased, instead of being diminished. For 3 when
A VISION. 371
when we left the cajue, many who lived with Ease, and had been contented with Amusements a great while, were glad of the Opportunity of following Hope, and his Comrade Illusion.
At the Entrance of the Palace, one of. our Guides, namely Hope, left us; and in his stead Certainty with a Smiling Countenance led us into a Spacious Hall, where the .whole Company appeared to be in Raptures, every married Woman found an Adorer in her Husband; and every married Man thought his Wife all Perfection, continually whispering in her Ears, Tcu are a Goddess. Some of the Unmarried were led by Illusion into Such various Diversions, that they had not time to be troubled with thinking one Moment. Others were conversing with the very Companions they chose, and Happiness was displayed in their Countenances.
In short, nothing but the Face of Joy wa? to be seen.
I Began to think, this was indeed the right Road to take; when on a fudderi t A a 2 looked
372 AVI S I O N.
looked up, and beheld at one Corner of the Room Pleasure herself pouring some Liquid of her own composing into a great Bowl; which I fancied would be a great while a filling; but to my Amazement, in a very small space of time, it was full to the top; and the moment a Drop ran over, ihe whole Scene was changed, and Tawnings were the only Sounds to be heard. She was invisible to all the Company but myself; for they were too much taken up by their own Enjoyinents, to mind what she was about; otherwise they would have stopped her Hand, before She overfilled the bowl Now as Soon as the Pawning was heard, Illusion opened a Door into another Apartment, to rouzc her Followers from this Stupidity. Here was the oddest Medley of Confusion imaginable. The new made god defies fell into such Freaks and Vagaries, that they all appeared mad. One moment they gave their Worshippers Laws, the next recalled them; then were angry they were not obeyed; then frowned, and bewailed their Misfortunes; that others could not find out what they liad a mind to have,
though
A V I S I O N. 373
though they were ignorant of it them? Selves.
Their Adorers, otherwise called husr Dands, restless to please, them, yet finding t impossible, alternately grew outrageous, m.d. fell into the most abject Submissions; hen succeeded Jealousies, Quarrels, with he whole Train of domessick Ills.
Those who in the next Room were engaged in cheerful Conversation, missopk lere roaring Noise. for Mirth, and clamo ous Arguments fpr Reason and Philosophy. \nd‘instead of conversing with one another 0 receive either Instruction or Pleasure, the ind of their meeting seemed to be nothing nore or less, than to displease, confound, nd stun one another.
Here everything which we call DL ^erfion was lost; for those who before eemcd pleased and satisfied with what they mjoyed, now so eagerly grasped at so many finds of Pleasure, that they turned themselves pddy with the Variety, and rendered
” A a 3 them
374 A vision:
themselves incapable of the er^oymcnt of any.
hetie, the natural Appetite to be Supplied with necessary Food was perverted into Gluttony and Luxury, which brought their constant Attendants Satiety and dis eases.
Here drunkenness prevailed; bringing, in the Bloom of Youth, trembling Nerves, and shaking Limbs. In short, the whole Scene was So full of misery, occasioned by pleafure’s excessive Liberality, in over filling the Bowl, that I believe the whole Company would have been heartily glad, if she had never begun to fill it.
At the very Roof of this Room, across a Beam, Sat perched a little ugly Monster called Disappointment. From its nasty Claws descended numberless Wires, and at the end of each was fastened a Hook, which the Monster could command, so as to hitch it in the bosom of whomever he pleased. When by this means he had, one. by one,
got
A VISION. 375
got into his Clutches the vrhole Company, he discovered himself by a scornful Laugh; and tugged at once his Wires, to make the Hook more tormenting to their Bosoms.
Eve RY one saw him, and Pain made every one sensible of his detested presence. Struck with Horror at the Sight, I could not help inquiring how long these miserable Wretches were to suffer thus. When // lujion (who was now at leisure, having given up her Charge to the real Deity of the Place, called Disappointment) informed me, they might all be free, whenever they would consent to be touched by a Wand, which would immediately make them See the Impossibility of staying in the great Hall, where Pleasure presides. But, continued She, “Many will sooner bear this “miserable Situation for a great while, than “consent to Such Terms: And Sometimes, “after they have consented to this Condi“ “and have been freed from this dread“ “Punishment, they return here again “with the first Opportunity: But then we “dismiss them on their Request. For we A a 4 are
376 A V I S I O N.
are very sure that People so blinded will ‘‘ never escape our Clutches for any long
time 5 and then the Punishment is dou^^. “bled, by Reflection on their own Folly.'' I was so uneasy at this dismal Spectacle, that I fled from it, and was resolved to indulge my Curiosity to the full, and go pext to the Palace of Pride.
The Name of the Guide to this splendid Palace was Virtue. She was in appearance So tall, that her Head seemed to reach the Clouds; whilfi: the Foldings, and Length of her Robe, hid her Feet from View. Jler Arms were numberless, and even to me, at first Sight, appeared of Bulk and Strength equal to the Talk of Supporting her Followers. The Moment she found I was only a Passenger, and not one of her Goddess's true Votaries, she lost: the Power pf deceiving me, and shrunk in my View into a Dwarf; her Head tottered with its own Weight, her Anns dwindled into Shadows; and I could plainly read in Small Tetters on her Breast, is/y Name Ls de fipfiony MSA^ to all her real Followers,
the
A V I S I O N. 377
the first Appearance still continued, and they rode on these Shadows with as much Ease as if they had been flying through the Air. This Guide did not suffer those of her Train to walk, but carried them in her Arms, caresting and embracing them all the way. Through many a Labyrinth she went, through many a dirty Path She laboured. She had not always the Power of keeping those she attempted to Support, from touching the Ground; but as by her Endearments she had the Art of making them lose all uneasy Sensations, stie seemed well satisfied in the Confeioufnefs of her deceiving others; and therefore thought no Pain too much, for thus gratifying the only Bent of her Nature. The Palace itself was not so magnificent as I expected; it was indeed greatly ornamented; but the Structure did not equal what my Imagination had formed; and I was told Pride had niany other Ways of gratifying her Votaries, besides that of Sumptuous Palaces and magnificent Appearances. The Gates flew open at our guide’s first Touch; and we were led through a great Number of Apartments.
37» A V I S I O N.
ments, till we arrived at that where the Goddess sat in State, and received the Homage of all her Followers.
At first sight I was confounded with the Multitude of Objects which presented themselves to my View 3 but my Guide, who to me only was obliged to Speak Truth, informed me, that the goddefs’s Father, and her own Offspring, numerous as this Assembly did appear, made up the whole of it; and then by Force (for it was Torture to her to let any Person into the Mysteries of the Place) she went on in the following manner:
Our great mistress’s ever venerablc “aged Sire, called Folly who is above five thousand Years old, brought forth “his Daughter from his Head; and though ‘‘ he was then but an Infant, yet she was “born mature in Strength, and in all the
“Bloom
* N. B. As it was necessary to make either Folly or Envy of the Mafeuline Gender, and as either would have done equal Violence to Mythology, I have chose the former j because I think the latter hath of the two the best Pretensions to the Gender I have here assigned her.
. A V I S I O N. 37g
Bloom of Youth : And we have a Pro“ “amongst us, that so she shall re“ “whilst this World lasts. But her “case is very peculiar, in that no time can " come, when her Father will be released from his Care: for the moment he ceases “to support her Head with his mighty “Arm, all her Dignity (I shudder at the “Thought) must vanish, and the goddess “herself stnk into noshing. All her pro geny you, who come only as a Spectator, “See plainly are fastened to her Girdle “wish Cords as big as Cable ropes; but “to those who come here as Worshippers “of the goddess, the Ropes are invisible, and “the Connexion between the Mother and “her Children is not Seen; So that, blinded “by my Assistance, they view everything “according to their own Fancy.
“If you observe, your Fellow-travellers “are divided into Several Classes; this is “done, shat we may distinguish which of “great pride’s Children shey like most, “and to whom they choose to pay their Court. There you see on the Goddess“
“
380 A V I S I O N.
“Righthand sits Insolence, with her Neck “almost broke by continual Endeavours to “lift her Head to the Clouds, and her “Face distorted with contemptuous never ceafing Sneers, looking on everything around her as Objects of her Scorn. But “you may See Pride holding in her Hand her favourite Daughter Envy, who of all her Children has been the most fruit full. For from an incestuous Amour “with her Grandfather Folly, She gave “birth to Malignity, Spiteful Criticism, “false Ridicule, and all that numerous Race of Beings, whose whole Delight “is in pulling others down. From her own fkinny Breall, where is a conti ‘‘ nual Source of Venom, do all her Off“ “take their Nourishment; and not“ “they delight to bite their ‘‘ Mother, yet Such is her Fondness for “them, that she never throws them from “her Arms; but continues to embrace and ‘‘ feed them, without any Intermishon; “seeming pleased with the Pain they give her. these again engender by the Ve horri they suck from their Mother, and ‘‘ multiply
A V I S I O N. 381
‘ multiply daily. The monstrous Pro ‘ ductions they bring forth are difficult to ' describe. They seldom come to Matu ‘ rity, and are often so heavy and unani ‘ mated, that one can hardly Say they live ‘ at all. Their Skin is as hard as Leather, and their Limbs distorted into various Folds and Sizes, which are called folio’s, td.s, or Duodecimos, according to their '' bigness.
They are Spread all over with black “Spots, in colour not unlike Ink. these “little ugly Monsters, from the time they “are born, do nothing but quarrel and “sight, which has the most Beauty; and their Claims are supported by their re“ “Parents, who take great care of them, and endeavour by all means pof “fible to keep them alive : But it is all “to no purpose; for the Space of four“ “Hours generally puts an end to them, and they are never heard of “afterwards. Some of envy’s Offspring “indeed are barren, and do not breed at y all; and those who arc So, Spend their
y whole
382 A VISION, whole Time in sucking the Venom, and then Spurting it out of their Mouths at “the rest 5 and this is accompanied with ** a noise, Somewhat like a human Voice, “only So hoarse and loud, that it almost “deafens all who come within the Reach of the Sound.
“That horrible Figure on the left “Hand of Pride, is called ill nature; and, ‘‘ altho’ she never stirs from her Mother's Side, yet it is not publicly known “whose Daughter she is; nay, she herself“ “disowns her Parentage, and insists upon it, that she made herself“ “the Goddess knows how to punish “such Ingratitude, and will not let her have one Votary, till she has asked par ‘‘ don, and acknowledged her Descent: then she has the Power of exerting her“ “as much as she pleases; and it is amazing how many Inventions she con“ “to rack and toiture the Minds of h others.
“Perhaps you may be Surprised to “see here many Beings, of whose Existence
“vou
4
A V I S I O N. 383
you must be certain, and yet know not, that Pride, bom of great Folly, was the “Original of them all. Here Cruelty zxa “Tyranny take up their Habitation, nay, “even Luxury often worships our God“ “though' her Birth is dubious, and she “pays her Court alternatively here, and to “the Goddess of Pleafuref' I replied, that she judged right, for that I did indeed see many persons there, of whose Descent I had been hitherto doubtshl. I begged her to tell me in what manner Pride rewarded her Followers; she told me, she could not stay any longer with me, for she was called upon to assist in that Ceremony, which could not be performed without her; but if I would observe her narrowly, I should be able to satisfy my own Curiostty. In saying this, she left me, and advancing immediately to the Throne, threw herself at pride’s Footstool.
Pride raised and embraced her. Saying; “My Dear Deception, I must confess you perform your Duty, in bringing me and my Offspring those Worshippers, we So y justly merit; and, if it was not for my
y natural
384. A V I S I O N.
“natural Antipathy to the Word Thankd. “I am not sure, that I Should not ac“ “you deserve them: but go, “reward my Votaries in the usual man“ “
DECEPTION bowed low, and seemed greatly rejoiced at her Command; she then went round to every Inhabitant of the Palace, who each of them gave her a little Picture, through' the Middle of which! she made a Hole with a Small Screw, (of which she was provided with greatnumbers) and left the Screw in it. The moment my Fellow-travellers Saw this done, they all began to beckon, and call to her at once. She Went to them as fast: as possible one after another; they caressed her at first with great Joy, but by their distorted Countenances, I visibly perceived. She contrived Some Method of putting them to great pain.
W H E N the Ceremony was over, I called to her, and begged an Explanation of what I had seen. She frowned, and expressed much Ill humour, at being ob i liged
A VISION.' 38^
liged to gratify me, and then began, by Saying; ‘‘ I thought your own penetrating “Eyes would have unravelled the Mysteries of this Place; but since L find it is other“ “and it is my unhappy Lot to re“ “them unto you, know that all “those Pictures, through which you Saw ‘‘ me put the Screws, are hieroglyphical “Representations of Some Virtue or Fa“ “of the Mind: for example, that given me by Insolence, is a represen “tation of Greatness of Mind; that by “spiteful Criticism, of Learning and Un ‘‘ derjianding; that by false Ridicule, of “true Wit; that by Ill nature, of Justice“ “by Envy, of Penetration -, and So “all the rest, I have the Power of screw“ “into the Bosoms of all who love and “caress me, that Picture, of which they “make choice. This puts them to great “pain, but yet they are so eager to have “it done, that they suffer it very patiently. “Sometimes, when I meet with any Small Seed of that Virtue or Faculty of the “Mind, which my Picture only falsty re“ “I am at great trouble to root it “out; but then the Reflection, how much vol. II Bb “I
385 A V I S I O N.
“I impose on these Fools, (who by culti“ “and improving this Seed, might ‘‘ really possess what they suffer so much “only to fancy they possess) doubly over“ “my Labour, and I am ready to burst: my Sides with laughing. The moment I have Screwed my Picture into “the bosom of my goddefs’s Worshippers; “they have a Power of turning their Eyes “inward, and looking at it for the rest of their Lives. In this, and in endeavouring “to prove to others that this representa tion is Reality, they Spend their time, “and grow very fond of all those who ei there do believe them, or tell them they “do; but those who are too faithful toi “try to impose on them, and would be “glad to take from their Bosoms this pain ‘‘ full Screw, and in its stead place there “what is truly valuable, they hate and “never forgive. This is the Cause of a “very great part of the Discord and con tention in the World. But whenever “two People meet, who have the same Representations in their Bosoms, they are then apparent Friends, though generally
y Secret
A V I S I O N. 387
Secret Enemies. I have no power to do this to any but those who voluntarily caress me; and, with the Exception only " of some few Persons whom Curiosity draws hither, all who enter this Place are fond of me.”
Here She ceased: : stood a Small time astonished at what she had told me; and then desired her only to inform me of one thing more, namely, whether Pride never rewarded her Followers with fine Equipage, Grandeur, Finery, c. My Guide Smiled, and Said that was the common Question of the Curious. But, continued she“ “goddess Scorns to give Such Rewards, her Votaries are often Seen in Rags : But Vanity, who is So distant a Relation of “hers that She will hardly deign to own ^ her, keeps her Court not a great way ‘‘off; whither if you will go, you may ‘‘ see what by Mistake you imagined was to be found here."
I Presently sat out as directed to vanity’s Court; but the Road was So B b 2 en
388 A VISION.
encumbered with Ribbons, Fringes, Gold and Silver Lace, and all sorts of Finery, that my Feet were entangled every Step I took; and the prancing Horses which drew after them gilt Coaches and Chariots, were like every Moment to have run over me; so that it was so tiresome, I left it, and turned up another Path, and endeavoured to find my way back again to the Gates, very melancholy that I had found no Palace where I could wish to stay : but I had now no Guide, and was bewildered in my own Thoughts; when turning my Eyes on my Right hand, I Saw, in a narrow winding Lane, a small Party that seemed to walk cheerfully on, notwithstanding any Difficulties they encountered in the Road. Curiosity led me to join them; and as soon as I came within their reach, the hindmost held out a friendly Hand to help me on; for here, quite contrary to all the other Companies I have deferibed, every one helped his next Neighbour as much as lay in his power, which softened the Roughness of the Way, and made the most rugged Paths Seem easy to us. Our guide’s Name
was
A V I S I O R 389
Was Patience; and hei continual Smiles and merry Countenance gladdened our. Hearts, and made us forget every disagreeable thing in our Passage. Just; as we were getting out of this intricate Path, and saw before us the most beautiful Prospect imaginable; at the very opening of the Gate that led to this charming Scene, were Avarice, Ambition, Pride, and Pleasure; in short, all the Deities at whose Palaces we had already been, were assembled, in order to prevent our entering it, and by the Arts they used, they greatly lessened our Train. But we the few resolute who overcame them, the Moment we had forced our way through, were delivered by Patience over to Truth, who conducted us on to the Palace of Benevolence. Under the Direction of such a Guide, we seemed to fly rather than walk j the Prospect enlarged, and the Road grew broader every Step we went. When we arrived, at the Command of dur Guide all the Gates flew open; and the Countenance of all the Inhabitants was enough to infuse Joy and Gladness into the most insensible Hearts. The Goddess of
the
3 9^ A V I S I O N.
the Place, who is called Benevolergtt, or real Love, makes it her whole Study hourly to enhance the Pleasure of her Followers. On her Right hand sits soft Compassion ever studying the Good of her Objects; and on her Left is placed gentle Tenderness, with Eyes overflowing with Tears of Sorrow or of Joy; though in this happy Place the latter was most times the Cafe. In all the other Palaces I had heard of these two Beings, especially in that of Pride, but till now never Saw any Signs of them. I had So often heard it disputed whether they had any Existence at all, that I was overjoyed at the Sight of them. The very Words Malignity, Anger, Strife, Envy, e. were banished hence; and what elsewhere would be called the Height of Friendship, here was but the common Behaviour of every Man to his Acquaintance; the Rule of their Lives was the gospel In short, here Christianity was really taught and really practised. Error and Infirmities even here crept in, but they Served only to promote the Humility and Penitence of the Offenders, and exert the Compassion and Good
Nature
A VISION. 391
Nature of all the rest. The Sentence, They deserve no Pity because it is their own Fault, however common it may be in the World, was never heard in this Place j on the contrary, Compafiion was here heightened, in proportion, as the Grief of the Sufferer must be the greater. Here an innocent Inclination was always Sure to be gratified; because the very hinting Such an Inclination was reason enough for whoever heard it, to endeavour to fulfil it without any whfs or wherefore’s. If it would but stand the Test of being innocent, all farther Examination ceased. Here all common amusements were heightened into pleasures, by being participated with others; and the Moderation with which they were enjoyed, prevented any ill consequence from attending them. Here every relative Duty, such as that from Parents to Children, and that from Children to Parents, fc, were So exactly performed, that no Complaints of heartbreaking Torments from the ill usage of others were ever heard; nor was that sort of Melancholy to be Seen on any Countenance, that indicates a Mind tormented
392 AVIS I O N.
mented by tender Grief. Here every Seed of real unaffected Virtue was cultivated and improved; and, consequently, all the real happiness Human Nature is capable of, was here enjoyed, and doubled by the Hope of yet greater.
I Was so pleased with this Scene, that I wished never to lose the View of it; but alas! I awoke, and ctl the Vision vanistied. from my Eyes.
FINIS.
