THE 
: ‘ai 
w 
o 
M 
A 
O F 
TJ 
tl 
\ 
o 
N 
O 
R. 
In THREE VOLUMES. 
VOLUME I. 
Letters bring things more home, and represent them more to the life, than either Annals or Lives. 
Bacon, Lord Verulam. 
• ’1 
DUBLIN: 
N 
Printed for James Williams, in skinner~r$w 
Mdcclxviii. 


< 


U, of PU 
j " Library 
\ 
r so - 
> 
^2 
M 
M 
O 
R 
\ 

d 
>5 
0 
j 
rfi 

1? 
'te 
fs 
O F A 
WOMAN of HONOUR. 

■ ’■o 
• l « ‘ 

letter I. 
From Mr. Mellefont, to Mrs. Buckley. 
lancaplre. 
HIS letter, dear aunt, will be delivered to you by that Sister of my wife’^s, of whom you have been so good to protnife that you will take care and do her any good officer that may depend on you. But as in my last I only Summarily mentioned the circumstance of her going to London, it is now very fit to acquaint you more at large of the necessary particulars relating to her past and present circumstances : In favour of preserving the chain of which, you will readily excuse my mentioning certain facts already abundantly knowm to you. 
Her father, the learned Dr. Maynwaring, dying about eleven years after his marriage with the daughter of a country gentleman, left her a 
vol. I. ib widow 
/ 

2 Frovi Mr. Mellefont, 
widow with two children, Esther, and Clara. The first, being the eldest by many years, on her coming into this part of the country, with Mrs, Alderton, a distant relation by the father’s fide, with whom she lived as a companion, I had the good fortune to See her, and soon, with the approbation of her friends, and efpecialiy of Mrs. Alderton, was made, by obtaining her hand, the happiest of men. Views of fortune in this match I could have none. Since I well knew that her father had died in rather straight circumstances, tho’ not long after I received the Small legacy which you know, on the death of Mrs. Alderton, as a mark of her friendship to my wife, and of her approbation of her choice. 
Mrs. Maynwaring, her mother, who was, in every point of female worth, an excellent woman, had not failed to give her children the best education in her power. In her impatience to see her daughter after her marriage with me, as it was not postible for me to be Spared from my residence, she was So good as to take a long journey across the country, purely to pay us a visit; in which there was not wanting to the heartiest welcome, any circumstance but that of her not bringing Clara with her, of whom she was unwilling to risque the fatigue, being but just recovered from the inoculation which The had undergone with the utmost success. 
Unfortunately, Mrs. Maynwaring, not long after her return, was suddenly carried off by bursting a vein, as she was on Some occasion straining beyond her strength to move a chest of drawers in her apartment, not having waited for a Servant to assist her. On this melancholy news, which I was obliged to conceal from my wife, then on the point of delivery, to whom it would, in all probability, have been fatal, and whom I 
could 
% 

to Mrs. Buckley. 
3 
could invent no plaustble pretext for leaving, I immediately, however. Sent off a person to take care of poor Clara, who was left in a very undesirable condition, and who, even in her tender age, not being full seven years old, was So little infensible to her loss, that it had nearly killed her. She was a?.ually so ill upon it, that she could not immediately bear the removal I had directed of her to our house. She remained then under the care of an old nurse in the family, who, though very willing, was very ill qualified for that, or any office, being so worn with years and infirmities, that she died soon after clara’s leaving her. 
Before this distress of clara’s situation was well over, by the orders I had sent, and just after I had found means, by due degrees, to break this misfortune to my wife, we had received a consolatory letter from Mr. Glaffrnore, a merchant of Some eminence in London, and brother to Mrs. Maynwaring, in which there was an offer, conceived in the most tender and affe6; ionate terms, of taking care of Clara, if we would send her up to him. Sensible of the advantages to her from our acceptance of this offer, it was not, however, without Some struggle of prudence with inclination, that Esther, who passionately loved her lister, consented to the preference, on this occasion, of her uncle over herself. 
The point being fettled, and my wife being as yet too weak to bear any travelling fatigue, 1 contrived So as to go myself to Norfolk, where I found Clara Somewhat recovered, and in a way that I judged the journey, and change of ob jeq; s, would rather be of Service than not to her health. It is true she much wanted to go with me to her Sister, at least, before she went to London, and I was myself strongly inclined to 
B 2. give 
/ 
I 
4 fr.m Mr. M e L L e f o n t, 
give her that satisfa£lion; but as I found Mr Glaffmore had Sent a person down to take care of bringing her to town as Soon as possible, I was afraid of his not taking well any retardment. 
This gentleman was a widower, left without any issue, which, doubtless, had some influence in his determination to take care of Clara, and even to leave her his fortune, if she should be found to deserve it. 
I had never seen her, as I had not been before then in that part of the country. She vasi repeat it, about her seventh year, but for her age rather tall. I had been by my wife prepared for feeing an uncommonly pretty child, •jiot however without due allowance being made for dedudfions for Sisterly partiality. But for this injustice I had now at sight of her to make honourable amends, for in my life. I had never Seen, never imagined anything comparable to lier for sweetness and beauty of features, delicacy of shape and air, and a bloom of complexion, in which the momentary prevalence of the fairest white over the roseate hue of her cheeks, from the remaining impressions of languor and affliction for the death of her mother, gave an inexpressible tenderness to her looks, and increased the natural Simpathy for the grief they expressed. 
Not, however, to tyre you unnecessarily with particulars, which Such an earliness of age would not suffer to be very interesting, and which would unmercifully lengthen a letter, that from the introdudfory design of it must be a long one, I shall only observe to you, that she arrived very safely in London, where she was received by Mr. Glassrnore with the utmost tenderness and affection. The loveliness of her figure would, at least, not lelten such a difposition. 
That 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
5 
That no cultivation might be wanting to her natural perfefilions he placed her immediately under the care of Mrs. Mercier, the widow of a bookfeiler, who, by extradfion, was a French refugee. At his death, with the little fortune he had left her, she had setup a boarding school for young ladies at Chelsea, and, by her perfonal management, had brought it into great and just reputation. Her method of education was admirable, for without negledling any one accomplishment that peculiarly contributes to grace the female sex, she had a Special regard to cultivating and improving the heart. It was by making virtue amiable, and by placing in its true point of view, of Superior dignity and pleasure in a consciousness of innocence, that she inspired her Scholars with almost an enthusiashi of love for their duty. Shame, that great engine of education, she employed with great fparing nefs and attention not to stale its effect, or wear 
7' 
out the Springs of it by too frequent an use.. Manual correction was entirely out of the question; she looked on it not only as carrying an air of slavery with it, but even as contrary to the end proposed; from its hardening that tender age in its faults, by endearing them to it for what it Suffers for them, and by only adding to it a newguilt, the Spirit of concealment; which finds a kind of joy in deceiving parents and teachers. Besides that, if you use children to blows or to hard words, they are apt to contract an abject fear,, and by dint of being debased by others are insensibly accustomed to debase themselves. the best masters are not Surely those who prefer bringing their Scholars forward by Slavish corrections,, to the finding out a good method of instruction. But that costs too much trouble. The quickest way with them, and which does not require 
B 3 much 

6 From Mr. M E L L E F O N T, 
much Skill, is that of rating and striking. For that there needs nothing more but hastinefs and ill nature. Whereas to bring them up by rea son, there must be a care, an attention to their tempers and capacities, a delicacy, in stiort, of ■which few teachers are capable. Mrs. mercier’s plan was to make her pupils fear nothing So much as being in disgrace with themselves, on having done anything to incur a just reproach from her, which She never made to them, without, at the Same time, rendering them fensible that it was a pain to herself, which it was mean and cruel in them to give her. Thus governing more by love than by fear, stie was always sure of the whole School on her Side, in the case of any animadverston for a fault; the offending party on incurring her displeasure, lay under a, kind of civil excommunica ' tion, from her companions and play fellows, who shunned her, not without expressions of a pity more mortifying than reproach, tils on her show of penitence or atonement by a better condudf, she was restored to the favour of the Governess, who had succeeded in making herself constdered less as the austere mistress, than as the tender common mother of them all. Always averse to the common arbitrary prafitice of enstaving children to the authority of prejudices, she was especially careful to put them into the train of an early exercise of their reasoning faculty, without the convidiion of which she precautioned them a gainst receiving implicitly any opinion; accustoming them to inquire into the causes of their judgments of things, and leading them to the truth by the way of examination : Thus accustoming them to' think for themselves, and not to let their reason lie idle, or carry it about them, as So many in a more advanced age, like a lame arm in a sting, as if it would hurt them to use it. 
Among 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
7 
Among many other improvements of their understanding, stie had by early instilling into them, a contempt for finery, done the real service to their beauty of defending it against the injuries it is Sure to receive from being overdressed. Everything, especially with children, depends on the light in which it is presented to them; the simplicity of that age being susceptible of any impressions and 'from the instinfiive rei: itude of nature, mostly So of good ones; they are as much and more to be inflamed by real great objects than by little ones. Among the punishments, by shame, which she had contrived for vanity or pride, was that of ordering the party under that charge to be dressed in her best clothes, with all the trinkets that the fondness of parents or relations might have bestowed on her, and obliged to walk or sit, for a certain Space of time, alone, as being much too good for the company of her schoolfellows, who, to humour the joke, kept ironically their distance; or, if her offence was very flagrant indeed, they compelled her to sit on a stool, and danced round her, a milk maids before a May garland. But to turn this at of derision to the general improvement, independently of the example, Mrs. mer cier entreated her pupils, upon their own judgement, to which she fairly appealed, to Satisfy themselves that dress, carried beyond an elegant neatness, could be of no sort of advantage in the eyes of persons of true taste; and as to superficial judgts or to understandings no better than those of fops in one Sex or triflers in the other, the preferable point would be not to please them. Without countenancing or allowing any malignant criticism or reflection on the person of the party under this Sentence of finery, she made them every one, and even the delinquent thus exposed, fen 
B 4 fible 
s 
- I 
8 
From Mr. M e L L a f o n t. 
) 
Sible of the folly and especially of the falsity a reliance on the foreign ornaments of dreis, those treacherous auxiliaries, which, if a woman is pretty, divide the attention to her personal charms, and, in the eye of taste, are no more an improvement of them, than gilding to a fine statue. But if she is homely, the damage is still greater: fine cloaihs and jewels not only draw on those who are under that difinheritance from nature more attention, by making their misfortune more conspicuous, but robs them cf the compastion due to them for that injury, by the indignation which finery So murdered must excite. It is only for idiots not to abstradf the person from the trappings. With men of taste beauty will be beauty in a stuff gown and coloured handkerchief, and ugliness uglinef though caparisoned all over like the mogul’s elephant, with rubies and diamonds. In short, the idea of a gorgeous dress remained on the minds of the young ladies, as much associated with that of shame and contempt, as the fear of a straight waistcoat with a dread of pain in the wounded imagination of those liable to it for insanity. And as the rage of over dreshng is a kind of madness, a fine gown was represented to them as the straight waistcoat of it. 
There was another particularity in Mrs. mer cler’s school which was of great service to the pupils. The back part of her house communicated with a very spacious enclosure, which was partly a garden, partly a wilderness, with a large room on one fide, to Serve for a shelter in bad weather; it was here that the amiable troop were regularly condudfed to their diversion for two hours before dinner, and encouraged to use as much motion and exercise as their vivacity or inclination should Suggest to them. They were especially, and without any the least air of compulsion. 
\ 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
9 
pulsion, imperceptibly guided to make their choice of those kind of amusements that required the greatcst activity. Rehearsals of the lessons of their dancing masters, digging appropriate Spots in the garden, the country Sports of Twinging, and even of stinging coits, bowling, riding, no diver ston, in short, was judged too violent that was consistent w th the modesty of the Sex. There were even prizes instituted for excellence in feats of dexterity : all which were controlled and managed with So much delicacy, that while they excluded every idea of too masculine an air, they manifestly preserved the Shape from the coarseness of a corpulence contradfed by idleness and inadtion, they gave a glow of frestinefs to the' complexion, arid laid the Solid foundations of a healthy constitution. Nor was this end a little promoted by Mrs. mercier’s taking care to keep their palate to that Simplicity of diet, a relish. for' which is originally the precious gift of nature, too often destroyed by being infenstbly betrayed into an habitual taste for made disties, and. for all those poisons of modern cookery, to whicst beauty, health, and life are so often the sacrifice. Knowing human nature too well to give an inclination ■ to them by prohibitions, and being fen stble. that at the tables of their relations they would be sure to meet with these pernicious ■ dainties under the recommendation of rarity and expenstvenefs, she imagined it best to. guard a gainst their fedudlion by anticipation Her own table, then, was never without one or two of those articles, which were left to the discretion • of her pupils; but they appeared constantly under Such marks of reprobation and disgust, that. pone ol them were tempted to touch them; Some would, where purposely destred to make trial of them, Sputter at them like the Savages when 
B. 5 
they 
J > 
10 From Mr. Mellefont, 
they first taste Salt; So that when they Saw the like at the tables of their friends, they were prepared and proof against any temptation from them. Add to all this precautionary management, that there was a note of shame, upon any appearance of a lickerishnefs, of which their understandings had been convinced of the danger even to their beauty. 
It was in this School that Clara received her education, and by the readiness of her proficiency in every branch of it, was the darling and pride of the governefs’s heart, to whom it did So much honour; while the natural sweetness of her temper was great enough to Subdue the envy of her schoolfellows, and at length to make them forgive her Superiority even in points the least apt to be forgiven. 
Do not imagine that any partiality of a relation could bias me to exagerate her merit, I but repeat Mrs. mercier’s testimony of her, and in her own words. 
1 shall only here state one incident that, will Serve to charafterixe at once clara’s sentiments, and the discretion of her governess. 
Among the ornaments with which her uncle Mr. glalsmore’s fondness had enabled her to distinguish her apartment, there was a Superb chi nefe temple of mother of pearl, of an uncommonly curious and costly workmanship, the present of a china fupercargo. This was not only very much valued by Clara, on account of its beauty, but as she had designed it for one of the marks of her gratitude to Mrs. Mercier, upon that worthy woman’s birthday, of which the Scholars having obtained the Specification by discovering the register of it on a family bible, had constantly Since made a law among ihemfelves to celebrate it, out of pure affedion to her, and 
forced 

to Mrs. Buckley. 
11 
forced her not only to consent to this compliment, but to accept any presents they thought would be the most agreeable, and of which any refusal from her would have been a real mortification to them. This day was then near at hand, when Clara, upon Some occasion happening to enter her apartment, found in it one of the half board ers, ail in tears, and in the utmost consternation for having rather carelefsiy, in moving a chair, thrown down the stand on which the Chinese temple had been placed, and which now lay on the floor in a thousand glittering fragments. As heartily chagrined as Clara was, especially at the disappointment of her design, which however she had never mentioned to any one, the unaffected concern and grief in which she saw the poor girl, who was the cause of this accident, turned all her thoughts to comfort her,, and to relieve her from the distress of her fears,, not only from her resentment, but of Mrs. mer ciers.. After then taking some pains to excuse the girl’s carelessness even to her own Self, she removed her apprehension of the governefs’s anger, by taking the accident upon herself. This for some little time passed current. Mrs. Mercier condoled with her on her loss, and the girl who had really broken the temple would have escaped * much as suspicion, but for her own impatience ' of the Secret in the fuiness of her gratitude. She could not help, under the Seal of Secrecy, communicating to one of the young ladies, the obligation she thought herself under to Clara for her procedure on this occasion. This young lady, rather edified by it than from any ill intention,, thought it a pity that Clara, who was universal ly beloved, should lose the merit of Such an acb of good nature, and, in that Spirit, divulged it 
% • through 
12 
From Mr. Melle font, 
through the School. By this means it came to Mrs. mercier’s ears. There were not two opinions about it, except only that the governess Saw cause in it to, give a lefibri to all her pupils. On the first occasion, then, of their being all assembled, she singled out Clara, and after preparing her to receive, without relufiance, her remonstrance, by a preliminary approbation of the good-natured motive on which stie had a£ted, she observed to her, that it was to that motive her error against truth was obliged for a pardon, which was enough to satisfy her that it was an error. Since if it were not one, what occasion could there be for forgiveness; that truth was too great a faaisice to make to almost any good; that in this Single falsity she had not only been herself guilty, but the cause of guilt ' in another, and that the mischief had gone farther, by its being the occasion of a young lady’s betraying the secret confided in her, though most probably with a good intention; that, in stort, nobody could tell where the moral evil proceeding from a falsity would stop; whereas truth was, at least, eternally, by its nature, defended from any fear of shame or reproach. 
Clara, whose docility could only be equalled by her candour, and whose detestation of falsity, had, on this occasion, only been momentarily blinded by an invincible emotion of compassion, touched to the heart at this representation from Mrs. mer cier, of the propriety of which she was intimately convinced, took hold of the hand which her governess extended to her, as a sign of perfect cordiality, and moistening it with' tears of gratitude, thanked her for her instruction, the Sincerity of her regard, for which, she Said, should be proved by an inviolable observance of it in future. 
Mr. Glassrnore, on being informed of this loss of clara’s, and of her behaviour on ft, was So 
charmed 

I 
it Mrs. Buckley 

charmed, that he immediately repaired the damage by the present of a magnificent fet of drelting boxes, of the old Japan, for her toilet, accompanied with a large Silver coffee pot, which Served Clara to acquit herself of the engagement Ihe had Secretly eontrafted with herself, to make Mrs. Mercier a present on the anniversary commemoration I have 
already mentioned. 
I shall pafs over the rest of her proceedings, at that School, except just one circumstance, of which, before the conclusion of this letter, you will see the necestity. 
Among other the Social virtues which Mrs. Mercier had studiousty inculcated to her pupils, as the great Sources of happiness, she had not omitted that of friendship. She had observed to them, that men, with very little pretention to the thing, had contented themselves with the name, which in general, they prostituted, by giving it to a commerce of interest; or to an association in follies or vices; but that as to the women, the other Sex, who laid claim to it as purely a manly virtue, honoured them with a Supposition of their being absolutely incapable of it, and excluded them from it as formally as Mahomet is faicl to do from his Paradise. Female friendship was, according to them, a chimaera, a nonentity, the men grudging them even the name, which is all that they theirfelves retain of it. It was not then as a point only of honour, but of happiness, that she recommended the cultivation of that virtue; she convinced their understanding of how great utility a well chosen friend might be, oa many occasions, and that there was not a Single good argument to be offered why such connexions were not as desirable, as worthy among women, as among men; nay, that the weaker the female sex was, the more expedient it was to multiply 
its 
14 
From Mr. Mellefont, 
its props, and that friendship was Surely not one of the least; that, after all, a jest was not a reason: : that if delicacy was one of the chief ingredients of that virtue, the women were incontestably, in that point, as much qualified as the men. 
Reasons less powerful than these would have Sufficed to persuade a heart So disposed to every Sentiment of worth, as clara’s naturally was. Besides then, the perfect harmony in which she lived with all her companions, she had met above halfway the advances made to her by one of the young ladies of the School, a daughter of Earl Lovell, her name Lady Harriet, and about one year older than herself. A certain fimpathy of temper and conformity of taste, in their favourite obje6i: s of improvement, in short, in everything, had first begun their intimacy, which habit afterwards strengthened and lastingly cemented. Without any such affeoiation of the name of friends, as might be dist agreeable to the rest of that amiable Society, who were all competitors for clara’s preference, they contented themselves with the pleasure they found in the reality of the Sentiment, of which they omitted no opportunity of convincing one another. 
In this tenor of life, in the bosom of improvement, and in all the satisfaction of innocent amusements, Clara had attained to her fourteenth year, when her uncle, impatient of having such a ti easure nearer shim, took her home, to the great grief of Mrs. Mercier and of the whole School, but especially of Lady Harriet, who not enduring to stay there after her, prevailed iikewise on her mother to take her away. 
Mr. Glassrnore, who had long been sensible of his niece’s Superior merit of person and accomplishments, not content with a piciusion on her of everything he imagined would please her. Set her at the head of his house, of which he considered 
her. 
to Mrs. Buckley. 

her, and not without reason, as the greatest ornament. In short, he idolised her to Such a degree, as was very capable of Spoiling one less fortified by nature and education. 
And here it would be ingratitude for me to omit, that she had constantly given us thfe most tender rtiarks of her remembrance of us, not only in frequent letters to her sister, which breathed nothing but the Spirit of goodness and affe6tion, but by sending us on every occasion, presents of such value, that we were obliged very Serioufiy to remonstrate to her against the excess. Nor did she stop at this, but as her influence over her uncle grew to such a point, that he followed all the impressions she was pleased to Suggest to him, he gave us proof, in many essentials, of his natural regard for Esther, being greatly increased by her quality of sister to Clara. In short, it is but fair to confess, that much of the present ease of our circumstances we owe to her good offices with Mr. Glasshiore. 
But alas! that so good an intention, as that of this fond uncle, should be, by his straining it beyond the bounds of discretion, pernicious to himself. It was but just, but natural, for him to think, that the greater was his niece’s merit, personal and acquired, the less she would need a fortune, to which that merit was So rich a Supplement. But as nothing, in this world, is easier or more common, than to ruinoussy confound a true good with a false one, Mr. Glassrnore, who had never been covetous of money for himself, began to confider it as the Supreme good, in the passion of his heart, for the adding to those advantages of Nature and Art, of which Clara was already so eminently possessed, that of a fortune equal to them. In this Spirit, he who had been before noted for rather a slow, cautious, circumfpedl dealer, Suddenly went over to the other extreme, and launched out into trade, 
in 
i6 
From Mr. Mellefont. 
in a manner that Surprised every one that knew him. Then it was that, for the ftrft time, he was Seen to prefer the chance of Sudden great gains, to the repetition of slow, moderate, and more Secure ones. Some Successes, at first. So elated and encouraged him to proceed, that, big with the hopes, they inspired, he used to talk of nothing less than giving.clara fourscore or a hundred thousand pounds to her fortune; and, in all probability, very sincerely meant as he Said. Unluckily, in the very year that he had taken her home, no less than four capital adventures, in which he had rilked by much the greatest part of his Substance, failed, so that in aiming to raise her a fortune, he sunk his. own. His constitution, originally never a very good one, i ad been for Some time sensibly declining, the consciousness of which had, perhaps,, contributed to that precipitancy with which he proceeded in his endeavours to accumulate the fortune he was projeq: ing for. Clara.. This blow then going to his heart, in its disappointment of his darling Scheme, was,, no doubt, of fatal consequence. to his health, and the more So, for. that he could not prevail on himself to procure the relief of un bosoming himself to • the Sole object of his confidence, of his affection, oshis care. He could not,. indeed, quite conceal his melancholy from Clara, .^ though he endeavoured it as much as possible, which only made his grief prey the more fiercely, on him inwards, but the cause of it She could not even guess.. never heard. him mention a. word of his losses,., a reserve which very likely pro ^ ceeded from - his fear of giving her any uneasmess. Not to dwell then disagreeably to you on this Subjefit of affliction, and without particularising the history of his illness, I hasten to the fatal conclusion of it. A few minutes before, his death, of the approaches 
octo 
Mrs. Buckley. 

of which he was fensible, he intimated a desire to Speak to Clara alone, who was So weak with her constant attendance, and watching him, as well as with her fears and grief for his condition, that 
file was Scarce more alive than himself. The at 
\ 
being all withdrawn. She had just Spirits and sense enough to observe, that he was in that sort of confusion for uitering what he had to say, which attends a repugnance to give vent to a Smothered Secret. He began twice or thrice to articulate a few Scarce intelligible words, that Seemed expreltions of a tender concern and compassion, when he was stopped stiort by the force of his disease;; is probable the inward conssidi he was enduring hastened his agony, for thence forwards he remained speecliless Rill the last instant of his breath, which was about a quarter of an hour afterwards. Clara frightened, and streaming for help, was carried out of the room. 
We were presently apprised of this catastrophe, and immediately fet outfortown, where our presence was on many accounts indispensably necestary. You being at that time in Cornwall with your late hustand, we could not have the benefit of your counsels. 
Nothing could be more moving than the deep distress in which we found Clara; pale, extenuated, and finking under her grief. I Sincerely believe that our arrival Saved her life, or at least retrieved her from the gates of death, which Seemed already opening for her. But the sight of her Sister, from whom she had been so long absent, and whom she had always expressed a passionate desire to See, Somewhat revived her, and gave her the first gleam of consolation, Since the death of Mr. Glaffmore. She had from that time remained in Such a state of stupefafilion and unconcern for anything, that she had never once thought of any point of interest, or of what she had to expect 
from 
i8 
F om Mr. Me L L e f o n t, 
from the state of his affairs; and the compassion with which stie had inspired all who saw her, had kept them from mentioning rt to her. 
When his will was opened, it appeared to be of a very recent date, and conformable to his latter circumstances. He had left my wife two hundred pounds, with Some other bequeathments to servants, and Clara residuary legatee. But by a very fair calculation, from the very clear accounts he had kept to the last, it was presently discovered, that all due dedu(3: ions made, the whole of what was left would not exceed from beiween fifteen hundred to two thousand pounds. This, with mil bury farm in Somerfetstiire, which in his lifetime he had irrevocably secured to her, and may bring in Something above a hundred a year, constitute the whole of her fortune, instead of that princely one with which his fond assurances had often flattered her. Out of his constant liberal Supplies She had made Some little reserve of money and jewels, which might have been much greater, but for own disposition and generosity. 
However, such was her unaffeted difinterested nefs, that on any mention to her of condolance, relative to her disappointment of fortune, Ihe could hardly conceive what they meant by it; she was So thoroughly Satisfied with the comparatively small matter that was left, and esteemed it a competency for any wants she could figure to herself, in her a6fual moderation of desires, and proposed Simplicity of life. Bot the memory of her uncle was only the dearer to her for the cause of that diminution of her intended fortune which never gave her a moment’s uneasiness. 
As soon as she had paid her last duties to his 
remains, her earnest entreaty to us was to take her 
down for a while into the country with us, there, 
in the bosom of our family, to restore her wounded 
< « 4 
Mrs 
19 
> « 4 
b 
ed Spirits. There was nothing she could have proposed more agreeable to our own wishes. 
I oaght not to omit mentioning here, that no sooner had Clara been taken home by her uncle, whose declarations of his intentions to make her so great a fortune, had been currently received and believed, that even in that tender age of her’s there had presented themselves a number of Suitors, Some of them in very opulent circumstances, but whom Mr. Glassrnore had not encouraged, in his idea of procuring one of the first matches in the kingdom for her. After his death, when it was discovered that her fortune was nothing equal to what had been given out, there was not one of those who had proposed their pretensions that deserted her. As ever since her uncle’s demise she had shut herself up, and remained inaccestible to any visitors, it was to my wife that all of them made their applications, and entreated her good offices. But as that was not the time to touch Such a string, there could be no answer returned to their proposals, but a civilly elu sive one, referring them to herself, when her affliction should be moderated enough for an application of that kind to be more consistent with decency. Some of her Suitors acquiesced in the reasonableness of this delay; others, in letters (which were constantly with great politeness returned to them,) in the genteelest manner they could imagine, covertly insinuated the merit of their perseverance, even after the discovery of the disparity of her fortune to theirs. At that time, Clara was too much engrossed by her afflictions to take notice of anything of that kind, but when she became restored to a little more tranquillity of mind, she Said, on their being mentioned to her, that she could See but very little difference, in point of delicacy, between Such as should drop their Suit, on finding the inferiority of her fortune, and those who made 
a me 

\ • 
20 
From Mr. Melle font. 
ia merit to her of their perfistance, notwithstanding the Superiority of theirs, the very mention of which betrayed their taking into the account a circumstance according to her ideas of things, of a nature very foreign to a passion of which she knew nothing, nor desired to know, except that she believed it stood very little upon refpedfs of fortune, and was only the better for that contempt, however the world might be in general of another opinion. 
Upon the whole, there appeared in Glara so great an indifference, or rather aversson for this subject, that we never ventured to renew the offence of it to her, / 
All difposstipns being'made for returning to our parfonage house,, Clara left a letter for Lady Harriet, who was then at the family seat, with her mother, at Moultray; and, after taking a most tender leave of Mrs. Mercier, who, in her visits, had been of great Service in joining her confoiato ry efforts to ours, we Set out for my parsonage house, where we arrived without any accident or inconvenience by the way. 
Here it was that the gloom of clara’s melan — choly first gave signs of dissipating, with the removal and change of objedis, wlsile her natural cheerfulness began to regain its ascendant, and (hew itself in gleams of Smiles, which were drawn from her by the little caresses and playfulness of our children. But Surely nothing could be more engaging, nor more edifying, than ner behaviour. The country ladies round us, who had been prepared for all the insoience and affediation of a fine lady’s airs, were agreeably Surprised to find in their stead, so sweet a fimpliciiy of manners, and an unassum ingness, which was the result of the most perfedf modesty in every sense of that word. Nothing was more easy to see, than that she had a great 
deal 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
21 
deal of true wit, and, at the same time, that she did not herself fiifped it, by her neither affecting to show or to conceal it. 
But even we, who had many reasons to anticipate everything that was amiable, from what we had precedenlly experienced of Her conduct, or had reason to infer from the Spirit of her letters, could not help being struck with the ease and grace with which she entered into our domestic occupations, and stid into all the female fundfions of rural ' conomy. 
These exercises, together with the country air, soon had their usual effect; she presently recovered the florid bloom of her complexion, and stood restored in beauty. It is without any the least ex ageration, I can assure you, that few of our neighbouring Gentlemen have Seen her with impunity, or are proof against her numerous attradfions; many of them have already declared themselves;; even Mr. Collins, our squire, who, in his life, was never heard to praise anything but dogs and horses, does her the honour of preferring her to them. But without any airs of insolent beauty, of prudery, or coquetry, Clara has hitherto eluded all their ad reffes, by the art of keeping them at a distance, without offence. Her shunning them appears to proceed less from her dislike of them, than from her natural love of retirement. 
She was extremes / with a very large clo set adjoining to her chamber, which I have added to the parsonage house Since you Saw it. Without any the least romantic turn of head, the melancholic mood in which she arrrived here was plea stngly Soothed by the Situation of it. Sweetly shaded by the trees of a neighbouring grove, where the Silence of its Solitude is only broken by the warbling of birds, and by a rill of the clearest water, forming a natural cascade with almost a mustcal murmur. 
Here, 
2 
From Mr. Mellefont, 
Here, on a harpsichord of my wife’s, she spent Some of her time, in the cultivation of her accomplishment in music, which she would disdain to possess in any degree inferior to that of a mistress of the art. Here, accompanying that instrument with a v^ry fine Soprano voice, and with those graces which are So great an addition to vocal execution, she would, on the least intimation of its affording us pleasure, and without any of the grimace to none So common as to the worst of players, without; their thinking themselves So, give us one of the highest entertainments of which the human refinement of nature by art is susceptible. You know my paltion for music.. and have often blamed me for the excess of it; you will then think that this renders me partial; but lady Proffer, who is universally allowed to be a great and real judge, loudly confirms my opinion of the Superiority of clara’s both voice and performance. In neither did I ever hear any of the Italian singers excel her, no, not even in the graces of Song, which the more natural they Seem, are but the more difficult to learn. 
She has given us too an excellent miniature picture of her own painting, of Flora, our Second child, in an attitude of steeping, which is another proof of her determination never to remain contented with mediocrity in any improvement she attempts. In that Spirit she made herself perfeq; mistress of the Italian, which she at first began only for its life in her study of music. 
You will then easily guess how happy the stay with us, of So accomplished, So amiable a fistcr, was likely to make us, while, from the return of her gaiety, and the fatisfaflion she expressed at her condition with us, we were in hopes that happiness would have been more lasting. An incident, none of us expected, has, at least, interrupted it. 
Clarn 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
23 
Clara had often mentioned Lady Harriet to us, always with the utmost tenderness, and latterly with Some little regret and' Surprise at not having heard from her. It was not full two days from her making this remark, that an express came down from that young lady, and brought Clara a letter, of which, as it relates to the occaston of this to you, I inclofeyou the copy. 
U E T T E R. 
4 
From Lady Harriet Lovell to Miss Clara 
Maynwaring. 
/. 
XC 
ic 
a 
XC 
X 
XC 
CC 
CC 
CC 
ic 
CC 
CC 
CC 
CC 
C 
London, Aiigujf, 
“My ever dear friend, 
YOU cannot conceive how vexed I have been at my receiving folate your letter, through the negligence of our porter, who kept it till I came last night to town. I should certainly have had him turned away, but that I am clear his fault proceeded rather from stupidity than ill intention; and as his innocent wife and children would be involved in his punishment, I am persuaded that I should not make my court to you by an a<sl of Severity, whatever the justice of it might be. It is, then to the implied intercef sion of ybur goodness that he owes his not losing his place. 
“So far in just excuse for the delay of my answer“ 
“do not mean to pester you with a condoleance of mere ceremony, and less yet with commonplace confoiation; but 1 Sincerely ssmpathife with you; I know your fensibility, and, will not, therefore, dwell upon a fubjeist so fit to refresh the Smart of its wounds. 
I say 
24 
From Mr. M e L L E f o n t, 
“I Say nothing to you either of the new difco ** vered inferiority of your fortune to the expedia tion which had been railed of it: why ssiould I, ‘‘ knowing your way of thinking as I do, offer you any arguments to extenuate your loss of an advantage which you would certainly despise if you had it. You are but too rich in endowments, infinitely Superior to those of fortune : a head less good than yours would be turned with the high ground on which you stand, so much above the greatest part of our sex; in the points of excel“ “we most covet. 
‘‘ How dare you, then, - talk to me of the difpa “rity of our conditions? In what have I deserved “this of you? I do you more justice. If it is the part of inferiority to ask favours; see a confestion of it in the Suit I have to make to you in this letter; and let me tell you, that it would be great injustice in you to deny it me, since you are the “cause of my necestity for it; you, who have “made almost the whole world indifferent to me 
<( 
(( 
€C 
€C 
CC 




by comparison of it to you. [In that word almoji ‘‘ there lies a mystery, which when I see you stiall ** cease to be one.] Yes, Clara, you alone have “made me fensible of the essential distinction ** between a recourse to acquaintance from an im patience of Solitude, and the joys of friendship founded on virtue and mutual irnprovement. Is it not to your example, to my emulation of your dignity of Sentiments and manners, that I am more indebted for the little I am worth, than to all Mrs. mercier’s lessons? All the company I See only reminds me of you, and nothing Supplies the place of you. Society at best appears to me a dreary desert, in which here and there, at great distances, in characters like yours, one one meets with a few Spots of verdure that are “of Some relief to the tired traveller. But now 
to 

c 




C 

ii 

i 
r 

N 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
2s 



is 
<{ 

II 

a 
u 
you are more necessary to me than everfor since I had the happinest of feeing you last an; ‘‘ occurrence, of the greatest importance to the rest of my life, has taken place,, about which I need Such a friend as you, in whose bosom I may deposit my fears, my anxieties, my alarms. 
‘‘ If, then, your regard for me is not a vain profession, of which, however, far be it from me to fufpedf you; if, in our tender years, our ssngling one another out, indistin6iion from the rest of the world, was not rather a childish playing at friendship, than laying a Solid foundation for the perseverance of so noble, .so delicious, So virtuous a Sentiment; come andblefs me with your company for as long as you can afford your absence from your Sister, or the will Spare you. She will lay me under an immortal obligation, if she gives herconfent. Enclosed with this you will receive my mother’s ‘‘ invitation, which is as civil a one as She would write to any one under a Princess. You know her idea, which, with all due refpe^ to her, is, I assure you, not mine, of rank, and how apt she is to proportion her style : but, with regard to you, her fondness for me, makes you an exception. 
“I Should tell you, too, that I imagine a coun try recefs is of too Solitary a nature to answer the purpose of completing the dissipation of your melancholy, and that a little of the whirl of of amusements in a town life, may Serve to make a not unnecessary diversson to your grief: but that I w'isti your yielding to my pressing in“ “for your accepting my invitation may be purely owing to your own goodness, to your own friendship for me. 
Come, then, my Sweet girl, come as Soon aa you possibly can; come and enliven me with your presence; there is but one Sun, there is but 
ti 


C 
<( 
(6 



CIT 

CC 
ic 
u 
II 
vol. I. 
C 
a 
one 
25 
From Mr. M E L L E f o N T, 
CC 

one Clara, and I (hall hail your appearance with more joy, than the long benighted Greenlander does the return of the solar orb to gild his hori ** z, on, after a Six months absence. 
Once more, in this request remember, that “I am recommending to you one of the points “I have the most at my heart: consult yours, and “deny me if you dare or can. 
ft 
Yours, & c. 
Harriet Lovell. 

\ 
The foregoing letter Clara dire6uy put into our hands, and as the express waited for the answer, we could not well avoid coming to an immediate determination. 
It was with the most tender regard, with the gentlest fubmistivenefs to an authority we certairdy had not over her, any farther than her own choice gave it us, that (he left us to pronounce whether (he (hold or not accept this invitation. At the same time she did not dissemble to us her own inclination to comply with it, though unfeignedly ready to sacrifice her dessres to ours. She was fen sible, she said, of the danger to one of her years and inexperience, in going into so gay and mixed a Sphere of life, as that in which her companionship to Lady Harriet would introduce her; and that none were more likely to fail in that career, than such as presume the most on their own forces; but thaton one great principle (he durst venture to rely, which was, that she would always herself mean the best, though without any presumption on her own infallibility; that, on the contrary, she depended on nothing so much as on the precautions she proposed to take against herself, judging that her greatest Safeguard against her being deceived by others, would be, to take particular care not to be deceived by herself j concluding with a repetition of sending 
an 


to Mrs. B u C K L E y. 
7 
an excuse to Lady Harriet, if we should disapprove of her giving her that mark of her friendship she fairly owned she wished to do. 
Upon this representation, though we had many objeqions to oppose to her going, independent of our own ardent desire to have her longer with us, we not only cordially returned her the compliment of leaving the point entirely to her own decision, but I took upon me, dear aunt, to offer her, in you, a ssncere friend and useful council, Sure, at once, of your not protesting this draught upon a goodness, which, I am persuaded, is inexhaustible, and of its being hardly poshble to find for you a more worthy opportunity for the exertion of it. Had not I been very clear, ' then, that both you aud Clara would do honour to my recommendation, I would not have taken the liberty to trouble you with it. Richmond being at so easy a distance from the town, will occasionally afford her a ready recourse to you : and Surely you would have been edified at the transports of gratitude with which she received our concurrence to her wishes, and this address of her to you, of wdiom she has, with reason, the highest opinion, from the justice I have done to your charafiter of untainted honour, and of perfect knowledge of the world, and all this yet more exalted by your great good nature. 
Agreeably, then, to this determination the express was Sent off with a most refpestful answer irom Clara to Lady Lovell, and a most tender one to Lady Hafriet, in which she excused herself for her fuccindtnefs, on her unwillingness to detain the messenger. 
Just at this time, luckily for clara’s design, Lady Proffer vas on the point of returning to London, from a visit to her Sister; and, on hearing of this intention, offered Clara a place in her post chaife, which she Said she would not afford her gratis, that 
C 2 she 
2§ 
Clara Maynwaring 
she would not; for she would be paid with a song. You know her oddity, which is very far from disagreeable, Since there is always good nature at the bottom of it: All we are in pain for is, lest the carriage should break down with her weight of corpulence, to the enormous preponderance of which, on one fide, Clara with her flimnefs of make, must he so deficient a balance. However, as one may say, the horses are to, and go the journey she vil, not without leaving many an aching heart behind her, ours included. 
You will now naturally say, that I have been writing you not a letter, but a history; nay worse than a history, a long panegyric : but this is im polllble to avoid, while writing of Clara : Nor am I. at all afraid of doing her an ill office by over raifing your expectation about her. I judged it necessary, because refpeq; full to you, to give you Some idea of the person I was taking the liberty to put, in Some measure, under your protection. 
Yours, c. 
Edward Mellefont. 
• ♦ ^ 
• ■ » 
LETTER II 
f 
Clara Maynwaring, to Mrj. Esther 
Mellefont. 
Dear Sister, 
London 
AS you would doubtless take it ill that such as are so admirably well united, I should attempt to separate, by my writing apart to Mr. Mellefont, this then, and every future letter, is ever to be understood jointly and in common to 
vou 

io Mrs. Mellefont. 
29 
you both. So that is adjusted. I arrived very Safe, and not in the least fatigued, at Lady proffer’s who, with a friendly violence, means to detain me two days at her house in the city, having Sent her coach immediately to Mrs. Buckley, with your letter and a note of apology from me, for my not delivering it with my own hands. But Lady Proffer tells me, Mrs. Buckley knows her too well to take anything amiss from her, for stie will have her way. In my hurry to see Lady Harriet, I could ill brook this retardment; but I do not know what it is to resist the pressure of a good-natured civility which one may feel comes from the heart; 1 would at any time rather suffer an inconveniency than give a pain. 
A crowd of visitants coming in, to whom Mrs. Proffer, in continuance of that kind tyranny of her’s, infists I should imagine absurdly enough, on my doing the honours of her house, giving for reason that I am absolutely the mistress of it, I find I can, at present, have no time to bestow on this letter the extension I could wish, for the effusions of my heart to you. No matter; I know your goodness, and that you will give me, implicitly, credit for wharf am thus hindered from saying;; sure I am, all that I do not say, could not contain all that I feel of affection, gratitude, and respect for you. Embrace your little ones for me, and believe me ever, 
Your obliged aud 
tenderly loving Sister and Servant, 
Clara Maynwaring. 
C 3 
L E T 
30 
Mrs. Buckley 


LETTER III 
Mrs. Buckley to the Reverend Mr. Mel 
L E F O N T. 
* 
Dear Nephew Richmond. 
1 Write myself; I think myself extremely bbli a ged to you for procuring me the knowledge, of your excellent Sister; by what I. can already discern of her, I had rather be her acquaintance than only her relation, but hold it a greater happiness still to be both. 
On the receipt of your letter with clara’s note and Lady proffer’s invitation to town, I immediately fet off, and own to you, that all that you had said to me in your lister’s favour, I found, at sight of her, inferior to the reality. A more striking figure I never beheld, nor certainly a more graceful one. With all the charms of innocence and sweetness, you see her heart breathing in her everygesture, every motion, every word. Her reception captivated me. 
You may be sure I thanked Lady Proffer for the kind care she had taken of her in the journey, and for all her more than civilities. The grossness of that woman’s fat good humour has to me ten thousand times the merit of the delicacy of some of the quality’s meagre politeness. 
I could not get away till the evening, when Clara Sent a card to Lady Harriet, to acquaint her of her arrival, and of her being .at Richmond with me, where I brought her to the apartment •which I have dedicated entirely to her use, and shall keep So, that it may occasionally afford her 
4. 
a con 

% 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
31 
a convenient recess;; I may add, a pleasant one; as nothing can be imagined more agreeable than its Situation, commanding, from the top of richmond hill, such a prospect as I fancy may vie with any that Greece or Italy can produce, the vales of Tempe and Arno not excluded. As there would be a kind of egotism in dwelling to you on all the fatisfa6fion Clara expressed at taking poffellion of the premises, I stall lightly pafs over that circumstance, pleasing as it was to me but still Surely less so than that of finding, by the ease and freedom of her behaviour to me, that ste had penetrated the dispositions of my heart toward' her, and repaid me with all the overture of hers, in the Spirit of congenial confidence and unreferve. 
The next morning, we had not done breakfast, before Lady Harriet arrived in a' coach and six, to fetch away Clara. T iicdr interview astorded a Scene of great, tendernefsj and mutual regard, w hile Lady Harriet overwhelmed her with thanks for her obliging compliance with her invitation. Not having so much as staid to take her breakfast in town, ste sat down to it with us. As soon as it was over, considering me as clara’s aunt, ste begged it as the greatest favour, and with so good a grace that I could' not well have refused her, that I would go to town with them, not .only to see Clara installed in the apartment ste had prepared for her, but to do her the honour of a commencement of acquaintance. In this particular, clara’s prestngly joining her instances determined me, and accordingly we proceeded to town together. 
But before I mention to you our reception, the concern you will naturally have to know the more essential particulars of the lovell family will give propriety to my prefixing fummerily 
C 4 Some 
3^ Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
Some account of what may, perhaps, have efcapect clara’s knowledge. 
I had n acquaintance with the family; but Mrs, Villaret, a worthy neighbour of mine, and a very fenstble woman, is very intimate in it, and might have been more fois her ill state of health had not greatly broke off the intercourse. vshe had often mentioned Lady Lovell to me, but never laid any stress on her knowledge of her, till I lately drew what information I wanted from her, 
Earl Lovell dying about six years ago, left Lady Lovell with two children, a fon, now Earl lyovell, who is about five and twenty, and Lady Harriet, who is many years younger. 
The father was not, that I could learn, ever eminent in anything, but was contented with being one of those immemorables, or cyphers of high life, who, having no opinion of their own, go constantly with their party, right or wrong; whose names you see, indeed, in the list of the Peerage, but which are the disdain of history, and the neglect of their own times; 1 eing hardly ever known out of an obscure narrow circle of menial servants, dependents, or of the party in which they are listed, made tools of, and despised: : the whole, personages rather negatively good than positively bad, and irreproachable enough for anything but insignificance, or nothingness of charadfer. 
The mother. Lady Lovell, is principally remarkable for two passions, which stie carries to the greatest extremity, a pride of quality, an or rogance of state, which dishonours her understanding, otherwise not a bad one; and a boundless Sondnefs for her children, whom she idolifes to shat degree, as to have brought herself at length to believe that they are of a Superior clay to the 
rest 

to Mr. Mellefont. 
33 
rest of mortals; mere earthen ware these, white her issue are the porcelain. 
As to the Son, Earl Lovell, whom by the by I have ogcastonally Seen, he is rather handsome, not ill natured, unless in his wit, but withal the most consummate coxcomb that ever existed, and, to the shame of our Sex, only the more dangerous to it for the being So. He is now actually in Ireland, fettling Some interests in his estate there, but is hourly expected. 
Lady Harriet, as to her complexion, is to the full as fair as Clara; her features not quite so regular, though, in their assemblage, extremely graceful and engaging : she has that sort of beauty that for its not making the violentest impression at the first glance, surely revenges itself at the second, by producing a felf*reproach for the injustice done it, and, upon examination, growi: s forcibly upon you. There is an exquisite sensibility in her looks, which, joined to her great vivacity, tempts one to conclude that there is fqr her no' mediocrity of happiness, or of distrels. She stems born for nothing but great pleasures, or great pains. As to her heart, there is but one report about it, that it is an excellent one : nor surely is it a little prejudice in her favour, that all her mother’s indulgences and. blind fondness have not been able to Spoil her.. But the secret alluded to in harriet’s letter, is the stcret of the comedy, for nothing can be more public than her engagement with the Marquess of Soberton, a 
nobleman of great expeffation, and who has a very good character, [even though a nobleman; Notwithstanding this is a match entirely the result of family interest and connexions, in which little or - no courtship has passed. Lady Harriet adores him. His father being ill at the 'Spaw, he is gone over to him, and, 
C. 5;. „ OE 
V 
younj. 
\ 
34 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
On his return, the marriage is to take effet. In the meanwhile, if I am not much mistaken, the company of Clara is, as Lady Harriet herself says, a recourse to which stie fiies from the usual anxieties of a tender love. Seeking the relief of confidence in the bosom of friendship. 
S ch is the a6tual situation, as near as is necessary to be known, of the lovell family, from which I leave you to draw what inferences you please, and come now to our arrival at Lady lovell’s. 
Prepared as I was by the knowledge of her charaqer, it was wdth much ado I Smothered a smile at the statelinefs this Lady Dowager threw into her reception of us. There was Something So quaint. So formal, and so bridling in her manner, that I really could not help pitying an otherwise good woman enough, for being so excessive ridiculous. But Clara a par son’s daughter, and I the widow of a Country attorney, did not appear characters in life, with which a Countess was obliged to keep much measures; accordingly stie treated us with a fine air of Supercilious civility, every now and then checking herself, as if stie had been afraid of letting down her dignity by too great a condescension, and as if stie aimed at giving us to understand, that we ov/ed the Supreme honour stie was doing us, to her over fondnefs in humouring her daughter’s fancies; much in the same style, • as that of letting her have a doll, or any plaything stie might cry for, in her infancy. And yet, amidst all the blindness of this absurd asttum ingnefs, I could not help thinking that our behaviour rather disconcerted her. On my fide there was a coldly polite reserve, with which I received all stie Said, that could not but partake of my inward contempt. But as to Clara, independently of the striking impression of so uncommon 
a beauty 
to Mr. Mellefont. 

35 
a beauty as her’s, she had withal so truly noble an air, a countenance so Sweetly awful, that I could observe it was not, at length, without its effect on her. Lady Harriet, to her great joy, as she told me afterwards, remarked it too. Upon the whole, however, we had no great cause to complain. 
Our audience of introduction to the august Lady Lovell being over. Lady Harriet carried us first to her own apartment, which was extremely neat, and afterwards to that allotted for Clara, which she had Some reason, to objecl against, for being too magnificent for that Simplicity of friendship with which she wished to be treated. 
After dining together, in family, when Lady Lovell most graciousty vouchsafed to descend a. little more from, her Sublime rank, I left Clara. with her friend, and returned to my own house, at Richmondj where I instantly sat down to write, you, this, and to assure you of my being ever. 
Dear nephew, 
Your affeciionate aunt, 
Lucy Buckley... 
505 OOOOO 0 ooooo 
LETTER IV 
Clara Maynwaring to. Mr/..mellefont.. 
Dear Sijler^^ London Sept. 
A FTER feeing Mrs. buckley’s letter to you L r have very little material to add, except that I have all. the reason in the world to be Satisfied with Lady harriet’s noble and constant procedure towards me. Even Lady Lovell gives me all the marks I could reasonably desire, or expect, of her being pleased.. her daughter’s. 
choice. 
N 

3$ 
Clara Maynwaring 
choice of a companion. There is, however, in me one great unsttness for Lady harriet’s confidence; Ihe is perpetually talking to me of her pafljon for Lord sohejt.on, and is amazed to find I do not enter int<j» it with the spirit she wishes. But this .does not proceed from any objection I have to her taste, for I never saw the mar quefs, and have, from unprejudiced persons, heard an excellent charafiter of him; but, from my total 'unacquaintance with the fubjeq: of love, consulting roe upon it, is like talking to a blind man of colours. I have not any the least idea of that pastioa, nor desire to have it. It is not that I defpire it, that I brave it, or give myself airs of defiance to it, but I heartily wish so preserve my freedom, because I find it fush cient to my happiness. The a6iual good which I now enjoy, in a state of liberty, may be, for aught r know, incomparably less than that which there is a chance of finding in a state of love; but I should imagine a certainty of content rather ■ preferable to a contingency of happiness, 
, the meanwhile, I have the same aversion for any difeourfe of it being addrested to me, as upon any other subject of which I am totally ignorant, and wish to remain So Lady Harriet, in her pitying me, reminds me of what I have read, in travels, of the inhabitants of the Alps, who look down with great contempt upon Such as have not their throats beautified with a wen. No matter; our cifputes upon this point answer her purpose of diverting herself, as much, and perhaps more, than the monotony of my agreeing with her: ’ They serve to advance the clock, which she tediousty counts till the return of the Marquess. There is, however, one point in which I am forced to be insincere with her, land that; is, in fuppreshng a remark of Mrs. 
buckley’s 

MI 

V 
I 
.. 
i 
i.’ 
i 
} 
f 
to Mrs. Mellefont. 
A 
buckley’s on his lordihip’s letters; a remark which', I assure you, would have escaped my inexperience, or rather ignorance of the matter. She says, that in point of style, wit, politeness, they are admirably well written, but that there is not the stiadow of fenriment, nor a spark of love in them. I heartily hope she refines too much; for, after all, why stiould not he love one of the most amiable women in the world, and by whom he is so ardently beloved, that I really believe the bare suspicion of its being unreturned would go near to kill her. There is nothing Surely I wilh less, than for her example to afford me a triumph in that cause of liberty which I am defending against her. But, not to take up Sorrow at interest, let us wait events where nothing in our power can prevent them. 
Yesterday Lady harriet’s brother. Lord Lovell, of whom I had often hear her Speak with much affefition, arrived in town, from Ireland. Mrs, Buckley was with us at tea in Lady harriet’s a partment, when he came in, and staid a good while with us. He is, I hope, worthy of so good a sister. 
Mrs. Buckley says she will write to you by this post, which encourages me to abridge this trouble to you 
Yours, ici 

Clara Maynwaring 
L E T 
f 
38 
Mrs. Buckley 
LETTER V 
Mrs. Buckley, to Mr. Mellefont. 
Dear nephew 
Ktchmond. 
Either my judgement plays me false, or the scenes to which your recommendation of Clara has introduced me, threaten to grow e very instant more interesting. The regard Lady Harriet has for Clara, has led her into the most unreserved confidence in me. She takes to me the more for that disposition to fimpathife with her, which stie does not find in your Sister, who, nt having seen the enemy, as I have done, can give her no account of his marches, and manner of procedure. I shall with great pleasure give up all the honour of Sagacity of conjecture, if her. Lord Should prove as much in love as stie believes him, and is undoubtedly herself. I make not the least doubt of his marrying her; that if seems, is fixed; but to me everything on his fide has more the air of one of your common interest matches, in which Love, either on one fide, or the other, but oftenest on both, takes his revenge for the not having been consulted, by. refusing his sanction to the ceremony. These forebodings of mine, you may be sure, I keep from Lady Harriet. "Why stiould I, on doubts perhaps false and injurious, plant daggers in one of the worthiest hearts that ever animated a human breast? Let that then stand over. 
Yesterday I was by chance witness to a not uncurious Scene. We were drinking tea at Lady harriet’s, when one of the Servants came in and told us Lord Lovell was coming; his mother 
happening 
.1 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
39 
happening to be out of the way on a visst at Ken sington. We expefited to see him in travelling undress, being but a few hours arrived in town from Holyhead. But no; he was full dressed for an assembly that evening at Lady evergreen’s, by an invitation that had met him twenty miles out of London. His Sister sprung round his neck to welcome him, and presented him to Clara and me.. I dare ofwear he took me, by my appearance, for some odd body, whom his ssster had picked up he could not conceive where, and put the full e quivalent of that opinion into the looks with which he accompanied his compliment to me. No wonder. I heartily forgive him; lor between you and me, in my figure and dress, I had not amiss the fair of an old mantua maker Suing for custom, or of a candidate for the place of housekeeper to a city alderman, on the recommendation of a new receipt for dressing turtle. 
But when he cast his eyes on Clara, who did not, I assure you, cast her’s on him, but waited, with the utmost modesty and the ferenest unconcern, to receive his compliment, the cavalier manner in which he had finished his address to me, and was beginning it to her, gave place to the hesitation of astonifhment, and to the refpe6ifu1 nefs of admiration. Presently he recovers himself, and, as if he had meant to make himself amends for the awe with which stie had inspired him, he threw himself into one of the armchairs with which the room was fet, and. Spreading himself out with the most easy familiarity, began to play off such a battery of airs and graces, as, I dare Swear, he expefied would do great execution on the object, against which he directed them. Had you then Seen Clara, .you could not but have been edified with her behaviour. Instinctively guarded by her natural good 
sense 
40 
Mrs. Buckley 
fense against all the false brilliants of coxcombry, Ihe bauhced all his barbarous attempts at Ihining, with a most provoking and a most unaffeal ed inattention and negle6i;. Yet nothing could be more intelligibly at once expressed, than her profound refpea for the brother of Lady Harriet, and her perfect carelessnefs about the very fine gentlemau who was stuttering before her. a t his first coming, he had Spoken of his great hurry to go to Lady Evergreen; and yet he staid above three hours with us, without he himself I believe, observing this inconsistency. Lady Harl riet, however. Seemed to enjoy it exultingly; though, in my opinion, there was one circumstance greatly apinst her brother: stie had often Spoken of him to me, but always with infinitely more of assedion than of esteem. So much is certain, that Clara, during the whole time of his visit, took so little notice of him, that I .question much whether Ihe could have told the colour of his clothes, which were, to do him justice, very magnificent, and not absolutely without taste. When it so fell in her way to Speak, that Silence would have appeared ill breeding, or asseaation, (he acquitted herself of her part of the conversation with the utmost delicacy, and with so much liberty of Spirit, that he had not any the least reason to flatter himself with his having added her to the list of his captives at first fight.’ I Should be loth to rifle the wager .of his not being himself,, himself knowing it. At least there was Something So modest, so difeoncerted, so crest fallen in his air, at leaving us, that might authorise Such presumption. 
No sooner was he out of the room, than Lady 
Harriet, 
■V 
■1: 
r. 
I 

I 
\ ■ i 
1 
to Mr. M e L L e f o n t. 
41 
Harriet, with great good nature, and, I believe, great Sincerity, complimented Clara on a conquest the infallibility of which She had anticipated : to this Clara returned no answer but a vague elusive one, full indeed of refpe6f, but withal So steeped in the cold of indifference, as if the objedf had been of no more account than catching a fly. 
In Short, Clara appears to me so much more likely to be the Scourge than the prey of a coxcomb, that I would, for a very Small premium, insure her from the whole tribe of them. 
Lady Lovel receives a great deal of company, and Some of them persons of real worth. Lady Harriet, entirely taken up with the thoughts of her future Lord, Sees, not only without envy, but even with pleasure, as a justification of her choice, the distinguished court paid to Clara, whom nothing but complaisance for her could induce to accompany her to their drawing-room, being naturally averse to mixed company, A multitude of lovers have offered themselves upon the most honourable terms, but Clara, who makes no violent declaration against a married life, and who, whenever the topic is brought up in a way that she cannot avoid Saying Something, always Speaks respedtfully of love, though as of a foreign power, of which she never wishes to be the subject; appears so utterly averse to any engagement, and throws so repulsive a coldness into her air, as nips in the, bud any attempt at a proposal of that nature to her. Yet I do not think her insensible. On the contrary, whenever she does love, I believe it will be with such a fervour of passion, that the consciousness of her being liable to that excess, and her apprehensions of her dangers from it, make her keep so Severe a guard over her heart. 
It 
c> 

42 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
It is with great difficulty we can get her public places, where Ihe never appears without drawing a crowd after her. But this inconvenience ffie is too modest to give for a reason;; do I believe it, even at bottom, the only one. She pleads a want of relish for them, especially for their being staled to her by repetition; the best, ffie says, will hardly bear above once feeing, as there are few books that will bear above once reading. The feeing the company is no amusement to her, and the being seen by it no temptation to a vanity which ffie has not. Plays ffie likes for the sake of their sense, and oparas for 
the sake of their sound, lieins; fond of music, 
7 0 ras 

both in quality of judge and performer. sto cards, the reason ffie gives for not having learned to play any game, is, that ffie had no taste for them; by which ffie did not in the least mean to impeach the taste of others, but that having never wanted for something in her idea, better to do or to say, ffie had never, for a recourse against such a heaviness of time hanging on the hands, as ffie had never experienced, been driven to a diversion, which, abstradted from the taint of avarice in it, seemed to her only a refuge from idle dullness into busy insipidity. She leaves, then, cards very contentedly to those who like them, without blaming, and certainl' without envying them. And in these opinions ffie is sofar from giving herself a wife sententious air, that they come from her in the style of an apology for her Angularity, and wiffi greatly the more effect, for her so clearly posteffiag the rare merit of a total exemption from affidfation, that tormentor of nature, that poifonerof beauty, that murder er of the graces. Having formed both her taste and her heart upon the best models, ffie has nothing to do but to abandon her words and geff 
turei 
i 
I 
to Mr. M E L L E F O N T. 43 
fares to the freedom of their course. Thence everything she says or does breathes the sweets of native ssmplicity, and strikes with all the pathos of sentimental energy. In short, the more 1 study Clara, the more I am convinced of her being herself a fortune, and superior to a title, though I am very clear of two points; first, that Lady Lovell would sooner see her fon married to a witch of quality, than to an angel in her rank in life; and next that Earl Lovell is not capable of judging, or, at least of being captivated by her virtues. She may, and I do not doubt but she already has, railed his desires, but I much question his being susceptible of love, a defect which will eternally defend Clara against any danger from him. I have entered into these particulars to fatisiy you of tyre motives of my i'ecurity about lier; for had I any the least apprehensions about her, I would immediately pre 
from Lady lovell’s; but it would be cruel to give a pain, especially as the proximity of the Marquess of soberton’s arrival will naturally bring' on a Separation, without any violence to either. - 
I am your’s, c. 
vail on her to remove without such a reason, Lady Harriet so great 
LETTER M. 
\ 
Lord Lovell to Henry Golding, eg at 
Chester. 
Fear Hal, London. 
Have not been above two or three days in town. But before I come to the point, which I have, at present, most at hearty let me dispatch two fools whom you laid in m y way. 
First, 
* 
mm 


44 
Lord Lovell 
First, then, pray acquaint that mirror of knighthood, Sir .Marmaduke Wormly, of my having, according to promise, tried the market, as to his chance of Succeeding in his offer to the ministry, of so great a bargain as himself; and that the result of my inquiry, is that whether he is inclined to put himself up at public au6lion, or to sell himself by private contra he may find a purchaser to treat with him. But this cannot be so well done without a little previous personal attendance at the ministerial levee, or statute hall kept for hiring Servants of all work; when you may tell him for his comfort, that nothing more will be required of him, than his having no character, and being qualified for no Service. 
By going a little out of the road, I managed so as to call at your cousin primrofe’s, who, I hope in the Lord, is only your relation. I had alighted at an inn in his neighbourhood, and Sent to know if he would receive my visit; upon which, after making me wait Some little time, he came himself, dressed at all points in form like Garter King at Arms, on a day of ceremony, and received me with Such convulsions of civility, that I could hardly keep from laughing out in his precious face, that little yellow Shrivelled face of his, that looked like a dried mustiroon. To his house then he insisted I Should go, of which, in our way to it, he gave me as magnificent a description, as if it had been the palace of a Fairy Queen, with ten thousand bed chambers, six thousand Saloons, three hundred and sixty-five courtyards, besides garrets, cellars, closets, and cupboards. I could not imagine where this stupendous fabric could have modestly withdrawn from view, for it never entered into my head, that he was Speaking of a huddle of spit over hovels, 
clapped 
1 
T 
K 
r 
to H ENRY Golding, 
45 
clapped together to form what he termed the Seat of his illustrious progenitors, which stood, or rather was falling just before ui. When I found my error, I bit my lips, to keep from laughing out, as I entered this mansion of the Primroses. He carried me to his best room, where, in honour to his taste, hunsr half a dozen villainous 
paintings, beneath the display of signs in harp alley, and which he currently showed me for (b many raphael’s, correggio’s, and dominiehino’s. In stiort, I never saw a higher original except his old maiden Sister, who keeps his house. I do not know whether she had any tender destgns 
but surely a more ridiculous caricature and affectation was never exhibited 
It was about 
upon me, of ugliness than this 
Caliban in petticoats, breakfast time when I arrived, and after being made to wait a great while for one perishing of hunger, madam made her appearance in all her 
of dress; but what with that win 
After breakfast, he car 
powers 
ter piece, her head, hoary with age, and frosted with powder, her wainfcoat face, and a white tabby gown with green steeves and breast knots, she reminded me of an old-fashioned hall stuck with Christmas. But the infantine airs she gave her fcli, with a voice as hoarse as a boat fwain’s, coming from an enormous mouth, stuck with teeth, Set at distances, like mile stones, almost took away my stomach, tied me to see his damned cabbage garden, with his superb menagery, in which, by way of exotic curiosities, there was a mangy Irish wolf dog, a stinking pole cat, a stck monkey, a lame .mule, a dumb parrot, a Friezland hen dying of the pip, and two mufcovy ducks mudfucking in a dirty puddle, which he dignified with the name of a canal. You may easily guess how these absurdities delighted me; I verily think I should 
have 

4-6 
Lord Lovell 
have staid to enjoy them longer, if I had not been in Such a hurry to get to town. I came away, however, without doing your bustnefs; which, after all his assurances to you of getting it easily done, I soon found is no more in his power, than the crown of Poland is in mine. 
1 had another little affair of my own to settle at St. alban’s, where I staid about four days, and received an invitation from that eternal hag. Lady Evergreen, to her assembly, with a shrewd hint of Mrs. Marigold being to be there, the once so much admired Miss bain; who, in her lust for money, facrissced the charms of an angel to age, diseases, and impotency. She is now looking out, it seems, for a supplement to her dearee’s deficiencies; but I am not her man. To me she stinks of her husband. As who the devil would not have his stomach turned, at the thought of making a meal of what lies cold and maimed on Such a fellow’s trencher? Yet I was determined to go, by the hopes of feeing that little flirt Jenny Perks there, to whom I had done the honour of having some thoughts of her, before I was suddenly called to Ireland, and so was forced to leave the reduction of the place unfinished, though, I may venture to say, there were broad signs of a capitulation, which, I believe, will now come to nothing; for the reason you shall hear. 
On coming to town, I immediately went to my ov/n house, to dress for the aisembly. I knew my mother was not at home, but I proposed a visit to my Singular Sister, who, you know, is sofar gone in the sentimental way : And whom do you think I found with her? An old good looking sort of a decent Joan Douce, and a girl in mourning of about fifteen. Ay! that girl! Hal! that girl is, at this moment, the lady of my ascendant 
; 

/ 
t’ ’ 
K'h 
r. 
hit 
V 
V 
I. 
i • 
i - 

(• > 
S(? 
/(? E N R Y G O L "D I N 0, EL; 47 
vendant; in Ihori, I was planet struck.. But, as inflammable as I bespeak your pronouncing me, let me, at the same time remind you of a justice due to me, that I am at least too nice of taste to be caught by a vulgar form. But this angelic creature it was impostible to see without a transport of admiration. A complexion dazzling 'ly fair enlivened by the roseate colour of her cheeks. Then her eyes! — but I will not go on, I should lose myself in a description that must faint under the reality; yet, let me add, that all the exqui stte beauty of her features and stiape, were nothing to the air of delicacy and of dignity which animated the whole I gazed on her with such intense rapture, as must have put her to pain, had stie minded me, but I never could once catch her eyes on me, though I did and said all I could to attrait her notice. As she kept, for sometime, an unbroken Silence, I was in good hopes she was dumb, or an idiot, that she might have fewer arms against me. But my precious Sister, with mischief, I believe, in her heart, was determined not to leave me that resource, by directing difcgurfe to her, which could not but produce answers., and by turning those answers into matter of farther question, she succeeded sofar to draw her out of covert, as made me very ■clear that she had a great share of wit and understanding; nor a more melodious voice did I ever hear, than that which graced her utterance, and font every word to the heart In the meanwhile, in honour to truth, I must say, that I did not, on this occasion, make the most brilliant figure. By all 1 xould gather from her behaviour to me, she refhained rather more heart whole than myself. I could obfervr in her nothing towards me but the rnost easy unconcern, and the most chil 
lina indifference 
Patience! My day of revenge 
will 
* 
t. 
i. 
i 
48> 
Lord Lovell 
will come. Have her I will, cost what it will. For, after all, what do you think this prodigy should be? A poor parfon’s daughter, with a fortune, I suppose, of twenty pounds, from the feast, at St. paul’s, for the children of the clergy. My Sister dear picked her up, I am told, at a boarding fchool, and, I should imagine rather unadvisedly, keeps her for a companion : But this will be very commodious for me. Yes, yes, I fancy a shiall matter of courtship and a brace of thousands will do the bussnefs. 
However, one Sacrifice I immediately made, for on my leaving them, my proposed going to Lady evergreen’s assembly was as much out of the question with me, as the throwing myself into the river, I came home directly, and Spent the remainder of the evening, and a good part of the night, in reflections on the new conquest I was meditating, and in digesting my plan of operations against this fair enemy of my quiet. As to the istue, I do not greatly despair of it. Remember that I attack in a coronet, at the head of a good rent roll, to say nothing of my having the authority of more than one lady, to write myself 'a pretty fellow. Yet, hang it, I do not know how it is, but I cannot jest with So good a grace as I wish, on this matter : I feel I am more in earnest than ever I was in my life; and, ’fdeath! why not? I never Saw so fine a creature before. By all the powers of Love and Fortune, she shall be mine. 
Meanwhile, Hal, I am terribly at alofs for you. I have fifty acquaintances that are equivalent to the town trumpets, for joining with me to publish the success of an intrigue, but not one I can trust to for assisting me in the conduxing it, in its infancy. In such matters, you are my whole privy-council : and now you are unluckily out of the 
way 
r 4 
to Henry Golding, EL; 
49 
way, .upon a wilcl goose chase after a damned law fuir, which I am afraid will never come to good, for your lawyer here, that was, and whom you have left for one, who flatters our inclination without regard to your interest, infists on it that you have not the (hadow of right on your fide.. You may not perhaps, indeed, despair the more of your cause for that. 
My next will, I hope, bring you advice of my having made Some promising advances. Since I cannot have the benefit of your aid in person, I find at least some relief in this epistolar confidence bn a fubjedf which is at present the foie business of my life. Can I live without having her in my arms whom I have eternally in my head? 
your’s, c. 
Lovell. 
LETTER VII 
Lord Lovell to Henry Golding, EL; 
London. 
Your last, dear Hal, treats my present en terprize with Such an air of compliment oil the facility of it, as I would willingly take for a good omen, if unhappily my own; experience, and, by this time, a better knowledge of the ene.. had not reduced the fanguinenefs of my hopes, to terms of greater moderation. Yet were you even here at hand to make your observations, I could forgive your being deceived by all the appearances of things in my favour, while I have an un aufpicious presentiment that the bottom is clearly and desperately against me. 
vol. I. D If 
5© 
Lord Lovell 
It is now near a month Since I have had as free an admittance to Clara as her stay with my Sister may be Supposed to admit: and, to my eternal stiame, I do not find myself one jot more advanced than at the first instant that my pastxon commenced. And yet, half this time, you well know, has heretofore Sufficed for me to bring down a countess, two baronets ladies, and the daughter of a country ’fquire. It would be pleasant enough if I Should lose all the honours of my generalstiip before a place, which one would imagine, at the first view, very stightly fortified: no dragons of relations, no jealous guardians of a great fortune, to take alarm at the approaches of an invader. Lady Harriet, who would not. So much I know of her, for worlds, contribute to the promotion of any designs, which would not be stridlly agreeable to her principles of prudery, and who, I believe, rather entertains, with regard to Clara, the most absurd and chimerical of all hopes, that of my having designs of a more Serious nature on her; a thought for which Lady Lovell would not very readily forgive her, if stie but fufpefled it; Lady Harriet, I say, provokes me horridly with that perfect Security and insolent unconcern, with which she abandons her friend, as she calls her, to the worst of my designs. But, what is yet more unaufpicious .for me, clara’s conduct towards me justifies but too much this confidence. She does not seem to do me the honour of fearing me. She neither stiuns nie, nor throws herself in my way; and without ever Seeking occasions to Speak to me, when Speak to me stie does, it is always with such an air of unconsttaint, such an intrepid affability, as disconcerts me a thousand times more than shi nefs, or reserve. In stiort, she leaves to the most frozen, and the most constant indifference, the care to tell me on what terms I stand with her. 
It 
to Henry Golding., Efg\ 
51 
It is true, ssie shows me abundance of respect,, that would satisfy me; but the vexation of it is, that this refpest is much of the nature of that which Ihe pays to Lady Lovell; that leads to no Other consequence, than if I was her grandmother. You may guess how encouraging this is for me to enter on a declaration of love. I have tried often with her the old trick of taking circuits in conversation, to make it land at length on that subject, with a view to some overture of my passion. But of this she has constantly disappointed me, without any affedlation of eluding my design, only by such a Silence as it might be supposed she would keep on a question of geometry or Algebra being started before her. She is at no pains to shift the discourse, for she takes no part in it; and lets it fall to the ground, without io much as a motion to take it up. 
I happened one day, just as my lister was gone out of the room and she was following her, to desire her with a beseeching look, to stay, as if I had Something very extraordinary to communicate to her, which, by the way, was the cafe; for I had really armed myself with resolution to break the ice. So far as a declaration may be called breaking it. On this intimation, she turned short upon me, with a look of emphatic Severity; and, making a low curtesy, ajked me if I had any commands for her; and and without waiting for my answer, which she left sticking in my throat, went out abruptly after Harriet. Nothing in the world could be so contrary to her usual politeness, and therefore I have some rea son to think she had penetrated my design, and, preventively of it, did herfelf'this violence. 
Among my dispositions to attack, it will be easy for you to think that I did not omit the old and so often Successful one, of presents; but as I had reason to think she would not accept any 
Da that 
: r 
k 

52 
Lord L o V E L L 
that were crudely offered to herself, I contrived, without affedlation, an opportunity of presenting Lady Harriet wnth Some very rich jewels; of C at the same time, I made it rather a point of breeding, than of gallantry, to entreat of Clara her acceptance of duplicates of them, which I had prepared for that purpose. But even that Scheme would not take; she refused them with the most, polite and the most cold thankfulness; and with no other excuse, than that wanting nothing, she w'oiild receive nothing. Lady Harriet only shook her head, and Said, “Poor brother !” and very currently took her share of the intended presents, but sent them back to me the next morning, with an ironical sheer, that she could not in confeiertee keep them, as my design in my gene rosity had So lamentably mifearried. I made, however, so feriousty a point of her receiving them a gain, that, though with great reludfance, and for fear of an absolute quarrel with me, she consented; hut, in revenge, she mischievously thanked Clara for them, as it .was to her, she said, she owed them. 
Such an incident would, with most women, have at least done she no disservice, but Clara breaks all my rules of judgement of the sex. I could, since that time, feel, in her behaviour to me, rather an increase of a coldness, which was, in all cohfciencc, great enough before. 
You know the impetuossty of my temper, and that to me, who am accustomed to summary proceedings, and to surrenders at the first summons, even a delay must appear a denial of justice to me. My impatience then is put to a terrible trial, by so new and unaccountable a situation, that in all this time I have not been able to get sofar as the initial step of a delaration. At this rate, a man should have a patriarchal length of life to undertake 
an 

■j 
to H E N R Y Golding, Esq,, 

i 
m amour. By the time it would take me to reduce the place, I ssiould be too old to enjoy my victory. 
I suppose I might come to my point instantly, if I could but prevail on myreis to make honourable proposals, but that I am liot yet So far gone as to think of doing, even if Lady Lovell would give her confeut, to which, I am very certain, no earthly consideration could bring her. As much as she dotes on me, and as ready as She would be to Sacrifice any point of interest to me, she is So stark quality mad, that my raarrying any woman not of a titled family, would go near to kill her. In this, her presumable opposition to my playing the fool, and marrying, forsooth, for love, turns upon a very different obje6fion from, mine. 1 am not the bubble of any Such nonsense. Between you and me, and not to let it go any farther, I would at any time prefer the four quarters of pure flesh and blood, of the humblest cottager, if (he was but handsome, to the sixteen quarters of descent of a princess that was not So. Even interest or fortune do not move me much. But the truth is, that with the utmost passion for the Sexy I have an invincible aversion against matrimony; not from any great dread of an abridgment of liberty; for, I promise you, I should make the yoke sit as easy on me as an old slipper. And, i ndeed, to do justice to our times, the nuptial ceremony often Separates more than it unites many a woeful pair, by driving them more than ever into Society, as a refuge from one another. 
To me the great plague of a wedded life is, that it Sets Such a damned sheep mark upon a man, as is very unfavourable to my darling pashon for variety!, Every woman almost to whom you make your addresses, from the fine lady to the pert chana 
D 3 bermaidj 
• V 
% 
54 
Lord L o V E L L 
bermaid, sends you, with a Smart rebuff, back to your wife, or flaps you in the face with the w’rcng you are doing to your sweet lady, your good lady, so that in pity to her they pique themselves on being cruel to you. Not that there are not to be found such as will make no objection toycu on that account, but then they must be either downright mean mercenary creatures or feme frightful stale women of quality, with whom one would not wish to avail oneself of their noble Superiority to a vulgar prejudice. 
The married men too, theirfelves, have in general, among the women, a sort of foolish, inst pid air, as if confeious of having forfeited that title to the universal joy, which is currently allowed to such honest fellows as we that have grace enough to preserve our liberty. Even the women of honour receive us more cordially, and look with a better eye on us, the pandours and hussars of gallantry, than on the regulars of wedlock, to whom they suppose themselves more indifferent than to us, who are known to be prowling about for plunder. For tho’ a woman may be determined enough against making a slip, she may nevertheless prefer those, as affording her the greater matter of merit, with whom she would be the freest; to make the slip. 
In short, dear Hal, I cannot Surmount my antipathy for the connubial state; but could I even be so abandoned by my better genius, as, in a rutting fit to rush upon matrimony, like Lord pepperau, reeking from the stews, I do not know one in the world with whom I could Sooner commit such a folly than with Clara. 
Yet how to get her on my own terms, “aye, that is the question Her uniform stmplicity of principles confounds all the turnings and windings of art; and the worst of it is, I see no glimpse of hope of her departure fropi that resolute evenness, 
that 
to Henry Golding, ejqi, 
55 
that calm steddiness, which one may plainly see in her, has even more foundation in charafiler than in education. 
With your noble way of thinking you will probably wonder that I have not recourse to Some stratagem, or even violence, to get her person into my postestlon, and so take the stiortest way with my fair distenter. But those Schemes of rapes, or running away with women, are, in the first place, what I have always detested and despised; be sides, they rarefy or ever answer the end, and in this country especially are next to impracticable. But as to Clara, for many reasons that! could give you, the probability of succeeding in Such an attempt would hardly be less than that of a Sallee rover’s cruizing above bridge, and making a prize of a thames wherry carrying a company to Vauxhall. 
I could, however, as soon think of parting with life, as of giving over my pursuit: it is not even, in my power, stie so engrosses my whole soul. She is the centre of all my wisties. In short, I propose to leave nothing unattempted that can give me a chance of succeeding with, her (take me right) in my own way. 
There is a certain Mrs. Buckley, who appears to me a devilisti Shrewd, sensible woman, and not in very affluent circumstances. She is a kind of aunt or relation, by marriage, to Clara, and pof festes, as I have reason to think, her confidence, without reserve. Now it is not impossible but stie may be the weak fide of this apparently inexpugnable place; at least, it is worth trying: When, if I do not carry my point with her, I have one grand battery in reserve, that I think can hardly fail; but that is a thought I hoard up like old! gold, not to be brought out but as my last stake. In the meanwhile, I almost envy the happiness of 
D 4 those 
6 
Lord Lovell 
5 
those humdrums who are proof against the charms of variety: If they have fewer pleasures, they have also fewer pains. You see how I am Served by my taste for it: After having dragged me from change to c’ ange, it has brought me, at length, to my present distradied state; between a violent jiastlon for enjoyment, and a resolution not to obtain it on the only terms I am afraid it is to be obtained, and which to increase my perplexity, I see others ready to offer, whose pretenstons to title and fortune are very little inferior to mine. Hitherto I have only this comfort, that to my rivals She keeps unalterably the same tenor of coolness reserve, and discouragement, as to me. But then I tremble to think of the advantage their honourable destgns, forsooth! give them over me, especially with a girl of so moderate a fortune. 
That pale, bloodless fribble, lord Phillimore, with a very good estate, has not only to herself made proposals of marriage, with a jointure at her own discretion, but has got Lady Lovell to interest herself in his, behalf, who was furprised enough at the offer, but stood petrefied with asto nisliment at clara’s modest, but firm rejedlion of it. Nor is this the only one, whom that matchless girl has treated so, without giving them any cause of offence, in the. manner of her refusal, and especially without herself appearing the vainer. 
Meanwhile all these distindlions stown to, Clara, begin to give Lady Lovell Some uneasiness for the, by lessening to her ideas that impossibility she had always presumed of my demeaning myself, as she would certainly call it, in having any Serious thoughts of one So much below me, as a poor parfon’s daughter. This however is a folly which I forgive in my good lady mother, in favour of the double use I may possibly make of it, towards accomplishing my ends on Clara, and myself at 
th, 2 

to Henry Golding, 
57. 
the Same time efcaplng the horrors of the nuptial chains. Good luck to the fish who runs away with the. bait, without being itself caught by the hook! 
adieu.l dear Hal; wish me death or Speedy, victory. 
Yours, c. 
l'ovello 
L E T T E R VIIL 
Mrs. Buckley to Mr. Mellefont.' 
Dear Nephew 
Krih monel 
Your letters gave me great pleasure in the Satisfaffion they express at clara’s condu<9:, and at the constant eye I have to everything that concerns her. I Saw the last letter she wrote you, as indeed she has no reserves for me, and could not help remarking that she defrauded you of a great deal of the pleasure to find her so worthy of your good opinion, by that indifference with which she slips over, without insistence on points that most of car sex would treat as the greatest matter of boast, the number and quality of the lovers who have presented themselves, and whose fuit she has eluded, without giving sherfelf the air of eluding them. 
She has not I find, So much as mentioned to you Lord Lovell among her admirers, and that for a reason which I fancy w’ould rather gall his lordship, if he knew it; but, on this occasion, his vanity 
4 
5 
♦ 
■* Some letters, the receipt of which is mentionedi in the course of these Memoirs, and which being immaterial to the story, are cohtted. 
D 5 remains. 
58 
Mrs. Buckley 
\ 
remains, like a blinded husband, unhurt by offenees of which he is ignorant. 
For those of her Suitors, who have accompanied their declarations of love with Such honourable proposals as topk away from her all right of complaining, (he has, I am persuaded, all that regard, and even gratitude that they could desire, consistent with her firm resolution not to give her hand without her heart, which I am pretty sure is hitherto totally free. But as to Lord Lovell, I could almost Swear she never threw away a thought upon him. In quality of brother to Lady Harriet, for whom she has a boundless regard, he commands and obtains her utmost refpe^f; But for anything farther, I am very perfectly clear, there is not that man on earth that is more indifferent to her. 
Nor can I say I much condemn her. He b one of fortune’s Spoilt children, his education having been like that of too many of our nobility, principally committed to a tutor, who, not having in himself a spark of elevation of Sentiment, could, hardly communicate it to his pupil. 
His travels, which, in the old rote, were merely matter of fashion, had been little better than a, silly, unmeaning Scamper over Europe, in the course of which he had exposed some of the fon lies of his own country, and brought back with him many of those of foreign ones. Superficial observations on things themselves beneath attention, the fopperies of courts, the childish play at. Soldiers, in military raree fhows, or, theatrical camps, with a, list of the names of the most celebrated singers and fiddlers of Italy, and a vile jargon of the technical terms of painiing ill understood, and consequently for ever misapplied, composed the whole stock of improvement, which, at kis. return, made him appear, to his lady mother 
such 
/ 
M". M E L L E F O N T. 
59 
C 
2* 
Such a prodigy as princesses might kneel to, and kneel in vain. 
To finish him, he fell into the rank with the rest of his fellow lordlings, and went souse into all the miseries which they have the impudence,, or the tasselesshefs, to call high life; the noble Sphere of which consists in selling themselves and their country, like negroes, to some minister as worthiest as themselves; in cheating or being cheated, at the gaming table or on the turf; in being lived, on by their flatterers, poisoned by their cooks, and cullied by drabs whom their footmen might disdain.. Not that, at bottom,. Lord Lovell had not with some wit, more hopeful dispositions, but he was weak enough to be subdued by the instinct of imitation, so as to be drawn into the whirl of the current follies, and became good for nothing by the force of example. No 
however, more common than that flimsy pliancy, that imbecility of character, which renders so many the victims of a false Sname. They dare not break herd, afraid of the ridicule of idiots for not resembling them,, a resemblance which one would imagine no great temptation. Is not this much such an absurdity, as it would be for a man in' health,, thrown by chance into a lazaretto of lepers, to dread their derision for not catching the infedfion; and for not having the honour to be covered like them with livid spots and loathsome ul -- cers? 
Thence it is, in a great measure, that in conformity to the epidemical roitenefs of the times,. Lord Lovell, without t e spirit to ralfe .himself above them, without regard for the welfare of his country, which might go to the devil for what he cares, without any passion for true honour, without, so much as an idea of that heroic ardour which characterises great men, is silly enough to forgive 
him -- 
6o 
Mrs ^ Buckley 
himself the wretched use he makes of such great advantages, as birth, title, and fortune, and withr all humble enough to sit down, like so many others, ignobly in contented worthleffnefs, and under the just reproach of having heceflarily recourse to tri. lies from a want of relissi or capacity for great affairs. Alas! take from them their follies, their frivolous amusements, what would you leave them? how would you fill up the terrible gap you would have made? Nature is Said to abhor a vacuum : if their minds are overrun with the vilest weeds, is it not because their minds are not a Soil for great Sentiments to grow or take root in? It is not that all, or even many of them, are ignorant of their duty, but they have a want of manly enough firmness in their charadier to pursue it: they know, perhaps, the value of all the virtues, without its being in their power to pradice them; as a man may know well enough the value of a thousand guineas, who cannot command a billing. 
Lord Lovell, it is true. Sometimes pays to vanity the tribute of attempting to gain importance, by rising up to Speak in the house; but how he must acquit himself you will easily conclude, from the following reflection, obvious; to common sense, and applicable to numbers of his rank. 
Let the frivolous objeq: of pursuit, or fancy, of the generality of our lords or men of fortune, be what it will, horfe racing let me Specify, for example, you will find, that after making it the businefs of their little lives, to pafs for great men in it, when they come to take it for their topic of conversation, all consummately familiar as one would imagine it to them, they speak upon it in bad language, and with worse judgement, even pitifully enough to be laughed at by their teachers, the horfe jockeys, riding grooms, lielpers, and 
boot 
to Mr. M E L L E F O N T. 
6i 
boot catchers. Now is these great men make So miserable a figure on those frivolous and favourite points, which they have studied for years, and which are hardly above the lowest capacity, what can be expefiled from them on thofe great obje^s, the affairs of the nation, foreign and domestic, which they never studied at all, and which, if they did, would more than probably be above their comprehension? 
In the meanwhile, even their herding instin£t is owing to their being necessary to one another. Uneasy in company where they could not help feeling disagreeably their inferiority, they Seek for the mean despicable ease and relief to their vanity, in associating with Such as they cannot fufpe61: of giving them that pain. They live together, as women visit, without a Spark of friendship;; meet without esteem, and part without regret. 
. Pleasure they worship as their idol, without one just idea of what it is, and ruinousty Sacrificing to it health, fortune, and fair fame, fall theirfelves the vifitims of an unknown God. Taste, you will say, is arbitrary,, and that the pleasure of the plough boy, who wished to be a king, that he might ride upon a gate all day long, was as essentially pleasure to him. as carrying a point against, the country might be to a monarch, silly enough to have a Separate interest from it. True. But then the boy has not the absurd impudence of demanding respect for his choice. I have no ob je<£iion to a man’s rolling himself in a kennel; but I should wish he would not recommend it to me for a delicious bath. Then the mischief these men of power and fashion do by diffusing their false taste, and making it the common nonsense of a nation, is really no laughing matter, nor indeed a. very triumphable success even for themselves. In extirpating all the virtues which, make Society happy, 
such 
62 
Mn. B U C K L E Y 
Such as friendship, moral love, generollty, and’ love of country, to make way for all the mean destrii6tive vices, felfissiness, debauchery, avarice, corruption, these leaders of the multitude appear to me to at just as wisely as the poffessbr of a garden, stored with Salutary delicious fruit, would' do, who Should pull up all the trees that bore stand fill his ground in their stead with a shrubbery of dangerous plants and noxious weeds, poppies, bang, hemlock, nigl^shade, and the poisons of Marmol’.. 
The times then had; no doubt, their share im forming Lord lovell’s charadfer. Among other choice instances of the humour and pleasantry in; vogue, that of bantering is in high favour' with. Lord Lovell, who thinks it great wit to make a common practice of it. It is Something in the low style of your old college wit of bamboozzling,, which being at length exploded at the University, is come to make its fortune in town; The greats joke is for one of these wits to deceive, and laugh at you for your not thinking him a knave or a liar.. Somewhat in this way, Lord Lovell will take bold of the hand of any man, especially of talents or of worth, who has been unlbrtunate enough to address himself to him for a favour, and tels him, with a tone of the greatest fervour and Sincerity, that “he wonders Such eminent parts can ** slighted— — the Scate Suffers by not seeking out for Such men,, and employing them — 
‘‘ that for his part, he is Sorry for nothing So -- much as its not being in his power to do the justice he wished to such transcendant merit.” - — The poor man, who is the butt of this barbarous attempt at wit and humour, greedily devours this mockery, and'does not See that my lord.is enjoying his mistake, and exposing him to by standers, by winking with one eye, and tonguing out his 
cheek. 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
^3 
cheek. 
Among others, he Served your friend Dr. Morell So, who observed it, and told me, he was horribly tempted to Spit in his face. 
He. gives himself another air, which I own pleases me extremely, and that is, the declaration of an outrageous aversion against matrimony. For this I would even greatly honour him, if it proceeded from a principle of justice to himself and of kindness to our Sex', in an unwillingness to make any woman of merit so mifer^le, as a match with him could hardly fail of doing But no! the reason, according to him, of his detestation of the nuptial tie, is, that the name of a wife would be a dreadful stumbling block to him in his carreer of gallantry : and yet, if all his conquests are as un triumphable ones as those I have heard of. I should think he gives matrimony its full revenge for his railing against it, These I mean are the stale battered Countess of Flautantribus, of whom half the town had been Sick these' ten years; two baronets ladies, the one parted from her husband for being caught abed with his footman; the other, far from handsome, and a born idiot; and a coun try fquire’s daughter, who had Some time before come up to town to lie in of a bastard she had by a strolling player, with whom she fell in love on feeing him massacre the part of Tamerlane in a barn. 
Peace be to his Lordship, with all his equipage of conquests at his heels; but without fee or^reward, 1 could let him into the secret of the true reason, at bottom, of his indifposition to matrimony; a reason which, probably, he neither knows nor fufpedis; and that is, his moral incapacity for love. That passion, without being a ridiculous Platonism, which never existed but in the fancy ridden head of some philofbpher, who having more imagination than judgement, left Nature out of the question, in 
her 



6a 
Mrs. B U C K I. E T 
r 
.■M 
her favourite object of attention : that passion, I say, for ever, tacitly, or expressly, includes a proposal of its duration and constancy to the object of it, and’thus combines destre with the sentiment that; fantfstfies iti And this is sofar from being an over strained or metaphystcal notion, that it stands instindlively the common, sense of mankind, where undepraved by false refinements, or superior to the being driven like mere brutes by the sensual goad. To go no farther than our own country; you See not only in the rural Sphere of life, where innocence of manners rnost flourishes, but even a midst: all the distblutenefs of towns, the honest mechanic, the industrious tradesman, the generality, in short of the people, hold it for a principle, to found their profpe6; of domestic happiness on this very combination of a passion for. the enjoyment of the woman they like, with a wish of its fettled permanency in a legal union. And this simplicity of view, : which is, in satan instinct of Nature, may, in all ranks of mankind, from the King, to the Shepherd, with perhaps different degrees of warmth and of delicacy, justly be called Love. : A name, of which it is a prostitution to give it to matches of mere convenience of families of sordid interest, or of a brutal appetite that looks no farther than a momentary gratification. In this, dear nephew, you are very lensible that I am launching out into no visionary ideas; you are, happily, yourself an instance of their being praqiically true. You, who furnish, in your own procedure, an edifying example of the permanent bliss to be found in moral love, a love approved by God and Mar. But, to be qualified for Such: happiness, it is indispensably requisite to have a heart; now that is what Nature has refused to too many human creatures. And Surely a man without a heart, is absolutely; and in the worst sense, as disqualified for 
the 


to Mr. M E L L E F O N T, 65 
the greatest and most exqmsite pleasures of love, as the guardians of a Seraglio. Is not, to a true taste, impotency of Spirit less eligible than impo tency of body? Or does enjoyment, without love, deserve the name of enjoyment? In this light, which I defy any one justly to call a false one, how much would so many of our miserable men of wit and pleasure, about town, have to discount of their boasts of their having had a number of women as worthiest as themselves?? this light, I do not at all wonder at Lord lovell’s disinclination to a state, for which he wants the most estential qualification, that of the heart: an incurable defe6f, for which I stiould think it as great cruelty to blame, or rather not to pity him, as it would be to laugh at or refuse compastion to a man born blind, for his want of sight. Beauty may give Lord Lovell desires, because he has eyes; but never love, because he has no heart; he may postibly I; now the gross pleasures of sensation; but never the voluptuous raptures of Sentiment: by nature disinherited of the most exalted bliss that it is in her power to confer, he stands for ever condemned to a volubility of desire, like Sisyphus, from the bottom of a hill to roll a stone, that never reaching or remaining on the summit, but perpetually recoiling upon him, subjects him to an eternal fatigue in vain. He is bound never to rise beyond the animal gratification of an appetite, as distindf from the noble palllon of love as vice is from virtue: an appetite that has no confistence: while inconstancy produced by disgust, and by the weakness of a soul incapable of attaching itself to a worthy objeff, makes him the bubble of a sickly fancy roving from mistress to mistrest, coursing pleasure, and never catching it, or at best a phantom in its stead. 
Carried away by the fubjefl:. I was going on, when 
s 
a ca 


€6 
Mrs. Buckley 
f 
a casual cast of my eye, on the tremendous length of the preceding Scrawl, admonished me to conclude for the present; with reserve to give you, by the next post, the remainder of what I have to say, .where you will abundantly see the reason of this preamble relative to Lord Lovell. In the meanwhile, I am ever yours, c. 
Lucy Buckley. 


* • X 
J • 
# 
# 
Nr 
* • 




IX 
Mrs. Buckley to Mr. Mellefont. 

facbmond. 
Resuming the fubje6l of my last, I proceed in the account I have to give you of Lord Lovell, by way of necessary introduction. 
As if everything had conspired to give his head a cast more wrong than perhaps nature meant it Should have, his evil genius betrayed him into the acquaintance of one Golding, whom he picked up on the turf at Newmarket, and whom, he took afterwards for his companion and confident; one who is infinitely worse than a Scoundrel erefiled intp a gentleman, being a gentleman sunk into a Scoundrel. Nor will you think the term too harsh, after the fafit I have to relate to you, which chara^erifes strongly this honourable friend and associate of the right honourable Lord Lovell. 
A little before I went to cornv/all, I had employed as a milliner one Mrs. Mabberley, a decent, Sober, industrious woman. She had often Sent home to me the tittle articles of her business by one of her journey women, a girl of about Seventeen, but one of the prettiest creatures you can 
ima 
Mr 
67 
Imagine, breathing the sweets of innocence and youth, and withal So well behaved, so fenssble, that I could not help taking particular notice of her. Some years afterwards, when I return d to town, I let Mrs. Mabberley have my custom again, and took occasion to inquire what was become of her pretty journey woman. Her answer was, that stie was a good for nothing hussy, who had been drawn astde by a vile fellow, one Golding, who had debauched and left her. This, I have stnce found, was the identical Goldipg, in Such high favour with Lord Lovell. At that time I thought no more of. the girl, and was only Sorry that one, who had appeared to me to deserve a better fate, had not escaped a stiipwreck only too common to afford much Surprise. A few days afterwards, in a retired part of hyde park, who stould I meet with there but this young woman, dressed with great neatness and Simplicity, with her child by that fellow, to whom She was procuring the benefit of a walk and the air? At feeing me so unexpectedly, stie' would have modestly deciirted any notice from me, and, for that purpose, turned her head astde, and was pasting on. I made up to her with all the encouragment I could throw into my looks and address, and with really more of tender concern, than of an impertinent curiosity, drew her story from her, which, on farther inquiry, I found to be exaslly true, except that, in her diffidence and modesty, she had done herself less than "’justice in certain particulars. 
Golding had, it seems, taken the advantage of her youth and inexperience to seduce her to his ends, by all the usual artifices employed on those occasions. By this means she Soon lost her bread and service at Mrs. mabberley’s, and being with child by him, underwent such a series f base, 
cruel 

68 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
cruel treatment, as ended, at last, in a total de sertion of her and of her infant, whom he abandoned to all the miseries of indigence, and to worse yet, to alt the temptations, with her youth' and figure, to rescue herself from the opprestions of adiual want, by the horrors of prostitution. These temptations she had the virtue to withstand; and after a train of Sufferings, and Severe trials of her constancy to her p’an of a conduct that stiewed how little she had deserved hec’ first fall, especially with Such a monster, she arrived, by industry at her needle, and by, frugality of living, at a Situation just easy enough for 
the maintenance of herself and daughter, to whom she behaved with excessive tenderness, as if she thought it incumbent on her to make her a mends for the negledit of the unnatural father. Streighfc as her circumstances were, she denied herself almost necessaries of life to give her child the best education she could. But what greatly charmed me in her was, the gentleness, the freedom from all acrimony, with which she mentioned the wretch to whom she owed her ruin, and for whom she had Suffered So many hardships, embittered too by the reflection, that it was through his baseness that she suffered them. All her resentment was levelled against herself, whom she allows to have been justly punished for her fault, though she might think it hard, that her chastisement should come from him, with such atrocious circumstances. I have reason to believe she Sincerely detests any thought of renewing with him, and happily now she owes to her good sense, and to the merit of a long tried eondu6t, a condition that Sets her above any excuse of bad circumstances., to wish the resumption of any connexion with a wretch for whom her love must have been long obliterated by the justest contempt 
This. 
iomr.. Mellefgnt. 
So 

I ^ 
This, however, is the precious wight on whom Lord Lovell has so judiciously pitched for his confidential hanger-on, and of whose meanness in pilaying that part, it is not a little aggravation that he is not driven to it by want. He has some .fortune, though perhaps insufficient to his extravagances, to which his lordfhip’s rewards for his Service to him in his vices and follies, may be no un welcome Supply. I never Taw him, but your acquaintance Mr. Sutton, who, by the bye, carries oil his business with great Success and reputation of probity, had a lawsuit under his management. Certain incidents in the course of which gave him a thorough infight into his chara6ter. You may, perhaps, imagine, that Golding must have at least some talent, some accomplishment. Some favourable distinfilion, to recommend him to his lord ihip’s countenance and intimacy. Nothing can be less the cafe. From a concern for a person so nearly related to Lady Harriet, whom I Sovereignly love and esteem, I suffered myself to be told the charafiler of one who has Such an influence over her brother. With a soul of an aether, coarse enough to have been made cut of the damps of a >coal mine, his whole flow of wit, humour, and pleasantry, Springs out of the kennels and finks of covent-garden, in a course through brothels, taverns, and night houfes, of which it has gathered all the loathfom filth and offenfivenefs. Vulgar and illiterate to the last degree, there would be no conceiving how he could have gained the confidence of Lord Lovell, who is, himself, not absolutely without wit, but for his eternal applause and assent to everything he says or does; for the wretch is so determinate a flatterer, that he would reprove the arrantest miser for being too extravagant, and the most abandoned Spendthrift for being too strifil an economist; add to this, 
a Cons 

70 
Mrs. Buckley 
a constant readiness without reserve, to perform any dirty offices on which his patron may put him. In return for which, his lordstiip most heartily despises him, and is governed by him, without So much as fufpefiting that it is he himself who is that low fellow’s led captain, and not that low fellow his. 
Nor are you to think this strange. Nothing is at present so common. It is even the general rule, for men of fortune and rank, to give their confidence to such as they neither love nor esteem, nay oftenest, to such as they contemn, who generally return them the compliment, and, m petto^ repay them in kind. In proof of this littleness in our precious Great, take a list of them, I mean of those in the highest class of life, for title, o pulence, and power, and, on the fairest examination, you will find that by much the greatest part of them, are refpedfively governed by Some little obfeure wretch, who creeps about them, fawns upon, and flatters them in all their little neffes, follies, and vices: most commonly too he is the most palpably worthiest of the whole herd of dependents, who are but the lest jealous of him for his being so, nothing alarming the whole camp of them more, than the rare cafe of their master’s (hewing any favour or distindlion to a man with whose merit their want of it must 
stand in the light of a disadvantageous comparison. There is nothing they dread so much, as the danger to them of their patron’s favour getting into a channel diflferent from that to which they owe that countenance to them, which is so much to his dilhonor and to his prejudice. For you need Scarce look any further, for the cause of that ignoble, trifling, uneltential figure, the genera ity of our great people make, than their raeannefs of taste and Spirit in not disdaining to 
be 
I 





to Mr. Mellefont. 
71 
be the centres each of a little dirty Sphere of Servile dependents, and nauseous flatterers, who must be So far from making great a man intrinsically little, that they must make a real great man appear little, if it could be luppofed that Such a •chara6ler could make such a choice. 
I have known too Some half wits as fond of having a led dunce as some ordinary women constantly take Some fright abroad whlh them, as a soil for the benefit of the comparison. 
I have dwelled the longer on this reflection, rather digreflive, I confess, first because this epidemical weakness of the men, who have the lead in this country, must naturally influence the conduct of public affairs, and then because I really wish to extenuate Cord lovell’s folly, by Showing it to be partly the fault of his times, from the contagion of example. A candour in me, to ‘which you will think him less entitled from my juf tiee than from my contempt; when I Shall have acquainted you with an incident, which alone might defend this long preamble about him from .a charge of impertinence. 
The other day, about noon, who should come to my door in a post chaife, and alone, but Lord Lovell? This was an honour I had no room to expert, from the refpe6tful and cold distance I had always kept him at, notwithstanding plain e nough advances occasionally made me on his fide towards nearer acquaintance: advances of which I had no reason to be extrenjely vain, considering their motive. 
You may remember that I had very early observed his lordfliip’s being Smitten with Clara, about which I was under no sort of apprehension. I knew him susceptible only of that kind of passion against which She was more strongly guarded by principle than even by the fear of 
a danger 

72 
Mrs. Buckley 
a danger which was not a whit the greater there, for her thorough contempt of it. Lord Lovell, finding in her condu6t towards him something so repulsive and discouraging as to give very little overture for any hope of Succeeding easily in any designs of the nature of those he was • entertaining thoughts of upon her, did me, I suppose, the honour of casting his eyes on me, as a relation that might be of Some convenience to him, in the pursuit of his ends, from the influence he judged I had on her, by the great refpe61: and confidence with which that amiable girl has constantly treated me. Of my situation in life, my figure was not at all calculated to give him a very brilliant idea.. My being always in one gown, and that a stuff cne, with every other article of dress uniformly in that style, would at most, to a man of fashion, that is to say, to a man governed by appearances. Suffer me to pass for a decayed gentlewoman on the charl table list. 
Lady Harriet, sofar from undeceiving him, iised to enjoy his mistake. He had precluded himself from any participation of her’s to him, even of the commonest occurrences of life, by constantly looking down upon her from the stupendous height of his own excellence, and superciliously treating her as an odd, insignificant girl, though stie has ten times his sense, without one of his defe<^ls. She had often, with ^ Smothered Smile, heard him tell me to my face, with a fine emphatic tone, as if he was Overwhelming me with honour, that he really took me for a mighty decent good sort of a woman. V 
Heaven help his head! It was not for one OT^ his turn to discover in that “good Sort of a “woman, ” one who at one time, and before She was led to a just estimate of things by a husband 

w 
to Mr. Mellekont. 
73 
band, fortunately for her, a man of sense, had lived not lower than on a line with persons of the first distindion of the kingdom; to which I can safely add, that it was the very dullest part ol my life; nothing being more certain, than that among those of his rank I observed the least room for improvement, the fastest and most futile prejudices, the greatest vacuity of taste; a fistem, in short, only fit to fet the head wrong, and to contradf the heart. The only acquisition I have to boast of among them, was that of a most meritorious contempt for them, on a thorough knowledge of them. Judge then, dear nephew, whether 1 made a sacrifice that cost me much reluq; ance, when entering, onthecon vi£tion of my own experience, into Mr. buckley’s ideas, I escaped from those scenes of taste less enjoyment and ridiculous vanity, into the Snug of life, where in the bosom of ease, tranquillity, and improvement, under the direflion of one of the best of husbands, I pasted the most delicious moments of my existence. 
But I ash pardon while I dwell on this preliminary, I leave his most serene Lordship too long at my door: Let me introduce him into my parlour, where I was sitting mobbed up, with a flan : nel pinned under my chin, for a violent toothache, which did not, I suppose, extremely add to the awfulness of my figure, which was, at best, that of an old fortuneteller, h either could the appearance of my house, very Small though neat, and chosen by me purely for its Situation, combined with the furniture of the room in which I received him the whole of which could not, at a fair appraisement, amount to much above fifty shillings, help to give him other ideas than those he had brought with him, of that mediocrity of my circumstances which he was come 
vol I. 
E 
most 
74 
Adrs. Buckley 

XC 
c 
XC 
c 
most nobly prepared to insult, and to turn to the account of his villainous purposes. 
After the usual Salutations, and Some Silly e nough humming and hawing,, he began: 
Why, you have got here a good pretty kind of a habitation — Let me see; the rent cannot, I should think, be very high. ludeed, the Situation is Something, Upon my word, Mrs. Buckley, a woman of your merit ought to have greater matters done for heri have always thought you a very valuable person.” 
To this, and much of the like, no answer from me, except, now and then, ‘‘ I thank your lordship— — are very good — To be Sure the times are rather hard” — And alstthis with such a profound air of, yes and please you, to everything he Said, as helped to draw him finely out to the point at which I wanted him, an explanation of the motive of this visit. This was stridtly poetical justice; a banter of him in his own way. 
Not to waste paper and time, I shall only give you a Summary view of his business with me. He had long entertained very Serious thoughts of my niece, ashe called her, from his having heard her give me the appellation of aunt,) and had nothing but honourable Intentions towards her. (In wshich I have pregnant reason to think he lied.) That his mother’s oddity of temper could not be unknown to me, the measures he was obliged to keep with which were the only cause that he did not make his declaration more public — That being but too Sure that he could never obtain her consent to a match, in her way of thinking, so disproportionate, he could not well venture to disoblige her, as she had still a great deal in her power. (This is true.) That, in the meanwhile, he was dying of ardour and 
impatience for obtaining the postestion of Clara, 
whom 
to Mr, Mellefont. 
75 
whom he would in all refpefits consider and treat as his lawful wife; and as an earnest of his honourable intentions, would immediately settle six hundred a year upon her for life : that he was afraid it would not be easy, indeed, for h; m to bring her to acquiesce in such an arrangement, which he proposed Should last no longer than till the benefit of time and events should put it into his power to prove the legitimacy of his paf sion: that, for my part, he should not, as an acknowledgment for any good offices I might do him on this occasion. Scruple a thousand pounds, which were ready at my Service as barely a retaining fee. 
Observe, that I abstrafil to you the Substance of his proposal, but Spare you the preambles and circuit of V ords which he employed to gild the pill to me. 
The truth is, that, at first, I did not conceive his drift. I imagined he' was aiming at Somewhat in the nature of a clandestine marriage, which, however undoubtedly unacceptable, would not, at least, have been so gross an affront. It was then, without design, on my part, and purely in a Spirit of explanation, that, by dint of doubts and leading questions, into which I took 
care to throw no discouragement that have shut him up to me, I came at to an ascertainment of his meaning, which was, that all his honourable proposals were reducible to the terms of clara’s being his mistress, upon honour, and I his procurefs for hire. 
You cannot conceive how much the impudence and absurdity of this overture diverted me. My sense of it was absolutely nearer to pity than to resentment. But I took care not to die in his lordship’s debt. 
Composing then my countenace to the highest 
E 2 expression 
Special 
might 
length 
/ 
s 
Mrs. Buckley 
expression I Could throw into it, of mock gratitude and ironical Submission, I made his lordship a courtesy down to the ground, and told him, that I considered myself as under an immortal obligation to him for his charitable intentions, in Singling me out for his Service on So delicate a commission 
That I 
Should immediately enter upon il by acquainting Lady Harriet, and especially Clara and her friends, with the generossty of his flame, and the purity of his designs: that I made no doubt of clara’s jumping at the offer, and of her impatience to qualify herself for touching the first quarter of her honourable pension;; that as he was so pretty a man, I Should think her unconstionable if she did not take that into the account, and afford him a cheaper bargain : chat for my part, I would sofar Set her a good example, that I would give up the brokerage he was pleased to offer me; nay, that if his lordship wanted a couple of thousand pounds, if he would send his steward to treat with I was ready to lend it him at three and a half percent. 
You are fensible, dear nephew, there was no conade in this proffer, I have a much larger 
me 

Sum by me, which 1 hardly know where to place out. ‘my passion for that Simplicity which confi der as the standard of taste, and the true Sublime of life brings with it a Saving, for which I stiould have the greatest contempt, was the economy I observe to Spring from anything so Sordid as avarice. As it is, I do not Spend a third of my income, which enables me to make reserves that may Serve o thers; without occasioning me any self-denial, or self reproach for meanness of Spirit. 
However, before I had well done Speaking, and I had Surely coolness enough not to loose any of the degrees of impression that what I Said was Successively making on him, I could distinctly ob 
j Serve 
II 
1 
1 
\ 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
77 
Serve the progressive growth of his confusson; rage, and shame to their utmost pitch. Confounded at the turn againss him his application to me had taken, enraged at the cool contemptu oufnefs of the irony with which I was treating him, and ashamed of the wretched figure he was making in the eyes of one he had begun with, addressing himself to, as to an objeist of charity, he sunk under the Superiority which his ridiculous mistake of me had given me over him. 
The point withtiim now was to recover So terrible a stumble with the best grace he could. For Some minutes he continued stunned, and incapable of uttering a Syllable. At length, getting a little the better of his oppression, he told me, with a faltering voice, and a tone of humiliation, that he saw he had taken a very foolish step; that he Sincerely alked my pardon, and entreated me to confider that his punissiment was in my hands, and that as he lay entirely at my mercy, he hoped my generosity, af d his unfeigned Sorrow for his offence, would induce me to Spare him; that as to Lady Harriet, my threat of acquainting her of his folly, affefited him incomparably less, than clara’s receiving any ill impressions of him; that he was but too Sensible. that much of his fate depended on my not doing him with her all the the dilkindness he had deserved, especially from me : but as to herself, he was resolved to repair the injury in a manner that should convince me, that the bottom of his intentions was purer than what that step he had just taken gave them leave to appear; a step into which he had been betraid rather by the blindness and impetuosity of his passion, which had hid the irregularity of it from him, than by a dishonourable design. 
This was the sura of his apology, of all which 
E 3 I hal 
7^ 
Mrs, Buckley 
I had to believe as much or as little as I had pleas ed. I knew too weli the nature and tendency of the inlinuation of his intention to repair the affront to Clara, to give him any the least credit for it. 
I replied to him then in an extreme polite strain, but as vague, and death cold an one, as the hol lowest. Smoothest courtier could have employed, to elude an explicit declaration. 1 Suffered him to go away, under a perfect uncertainty of what my procedure would be upon this curious piece of conduct of his. 
As Soon as he was gone, the first idea that naturally presented itself, was to wtite immediately to Clara a succinq: account of what had passed; the weather being too bad for me to go in person, under the pain I was in. About this there was no difficulty: but I much wished to Spare Lady Harriet the cruel uneasinefs I was Sure that her brother’s procedure would give her. I was a fraid too, that Clara herself might, in the first e motions of her wounded delicacy, think it incumbent on her to remove direly from Lady harriet’s, to whom the abruptness of the step, combined with the cause of it, could not fail of giving a great deal of pain. As I was then per fedfly clear that there was no danger to Clara, with her way of thinking, from her continuing a little while longer with Lady Harriet, and that her coming away might imply to him Such a fear of his designs, as She was much above having; I had, to her staying at Lady lovell’s, till the Marquess of soberton’s imminent arrival, but one objection, which was the possibility of Lord lovell’s imagining 

that Such her continuance after so great an indignity, which he would naturally judge I could not well answer Suppressing to her, was a kind of laying wait for his effedfuating that re 
paraiio.n 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
79 
paration which he had insinuated to me, by a declaration in form of more honourable intentions. However this obje^ion I soon Solved to myself, by a reflection on the groundleltnefs of such a pre fumptipn in Lord Lovell, from what I knew of my own ideas, and hatl the strongest reason to believe of clara’s. I constdered, that it would be great injustice to give the worthy, the amiable Lady Harriet unnecessarily great pain, for fear of any vain and false notion of her brother’s. There is not, perhaps, a more pernicious, nor a more common error, than the doing or not doing a thing, out of regard to the opinion of fools, which by the by is doing them rather too much honour. 
In these ideas I sat down to give Clara the necessary and very candid information of Lord lovell’s procedure, and withal! my opinion for her uot coming away immediately, and my reasons for that opinion, which, however, it was absolutely at her option to follow or not, as I was ever ready to receive her with open arms. This letter I Sent by a Special messenger, my own maid, so as not to be delivered in Lady harriet’s presence, to prevent any reserve which the novelty of it between them would render very awkward, and against which I easily guarded my Servant by equipping her with a collateral pretext. 
In the afternoon I received by the return of the messenger clara’s answer, of which I enclose you the copy. 
Yours, c 
\ 
\ 
Buckley. 
E 4 
L E TSO 


Clara Maynwaring 
letter. 
Clara Maynwaring, to Mrs. Buckley. 
London. 

iay ever rejpeiiable Aunt, 
if 
a 
u 
if 
u 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
if 
ti 
if 
if 
ii( 

AFTER exprelfng to you my pain for the indignity you have met with on my account a pain much lefiened to me by my reflection on your superiority to it, suffer me to give to a very sincere friendship the first: place in my expressions of gratitude to you, for your tender concern for Lady Harriet on this occasion. Nothing can be more just than your apprehensious for her: nothing more merited than your unwillingness to give her unnecessarily cause of pain. In honour to truth, I must confess, that I should most probably on the first sense of the insult done to you, (for as to myself, ray Lord Lovell cannot offend me,) I stiould have endeavoured to make Lady Harriet sensible of the propriety of my leaving her, without anything in my heart towards her, but sentiments of the utmost affection and esteem. I arn, I hope, incapable of such an injustice as that of imputing to her, as any demerit, those follies or indiscretions of a brother, which ssie would be the first to detest and deplore. Be it then as you have better judged. Lord Soberton will certainly soon be here, by his father’s orders, who is in a fair way of recovery. The celebration of his nuptials with Lady Harriet will naturally bring on a separation without any violence. The rest of the time, till my return to my brother mellefont’s, in the country, as I originally proposed before the summer comes on, I shall, with your leave, 
spend 
y 
to Mrs. B U C K L E Y. 
8i 
“Spend with you, to my great improvement, I am very Sure. In the meanwhile, I Shall conceas from Lady Harriet an incident that would give " her So great an uneasiness: it is the only kind of perfidy of which my friendship for her is capable. 
** your’s, C“ 
“Maynwaring.” ’ 
CC 
LETTER X 
Mr. M E L L E F o N T to Mrs. Buckley. 
Lancajhiret Nov 
My ever honoured Aunt, 
YOU cannot conceive what pstafure your: letters have given my wife and me, except just in that part where we felt for the indignity of your treatment; which, however, you»are so right to treat with the scorn and deristbn it deserves. As we unfeignedly join in our full satisfaqion at clara’s having the happiness of your counsels at hand, and the good sense. to refpedi; them : we are not in any the least pain about the. issue of Lord lovell’s de ssgns whatever they may be : with such a pilot as you'there is no fear of a shipwreck. 
But if. I stncerely pity Lord Lovell, for his not being above the worthlesshefs of his times, I hope Lraay have leave to pity my country much more, for the danger of ruin to which it stands exposed,,. having its fate depend on no better heads and hearts, than those of the. generality of the people; of power in. all parties. Nor do I see any likeli 
E 5 hood.t 
% 
I'll I ■ifim III _____ 
82 
Mr. Mellefo nt 
s 
hood of an. amendment, unless a few men of good Sense, and real well-meaning, with the requisites of rank and fortune to give their operation due weight, should rise to the rescue of the nation from the prevalence of all the fuiility and corruption under which it is evidently Sinking. But if it is too much, or too chimerical to suppose, that there a few still remaining capable of such an effort of virtue, I hope no one will say that such a country does not deserve its perdition, and that the chimaera would be not to bespeak it. 
And here suffer me to offer you a few remarks on our titled nobility, which, as 1 principally derive them from the information of Mr. Buckley, who, I am fensible, thought no subject of this kind above your comprehenston, wille be rather reminding than prefuraing to instruct you. 
The great authority, then, of our nobles wa unquestionably owing to their official duty, considered in two lights, that of Judges, Guardians of the Law, and Counsellors to the Throne; and that of Defenders of their country against enemies foreign and domestic. 
In their judiciary capacity they constitute the upper house, where they Sit merely in the civil character of Judges, under the titles of Lords or Barons, both which have no relation to anything but the Law: the word Lord importing a magif trate, and Baron a Judge; Barony a distridt of civil government, in former times feudally liable to furnish its contingent to the national Service. In their military province they have other titles, which are an ingraftment on those of Lord or Baron; such as Duke, Marquess, Earl, c. which are destgnations of martial rank, those distinguished by them being originally bound to personal Service, receiving for their pay certain allotments of lands, which they possessed by feudal tenure. 
You 
io Mrs. B u C k L e y. 
83 
You have here their office in one plain, Succinfl view. They were the first in the land for law and arms. Are they in reality, the first in either now? Or is it not a moot point, whether they are better lawyers in the house, or better Soldiers in the field? personal Service in war they have long, in general, renounced, and left to younger brothers, and to any military adventurers, for a livelihood; content, for themselves, to carry arms nowhere but on their Seals, plate, or coach doors, less as ensigns of honour, than matter of a lastelefs parade. But then, you will say, they have stuck the closer to their civil charatster of Judges, of Comptrollers of Ministers, and Counsellors of the State. May be 
So. 
As to their being Judges; it is their essential prerogative to be such; and they,, no doubt, qualify themselves duly for the discharge of that great and refpe6lable office. 
In their political charafiler of Diredlors of Ministers, I am afraid that, in former times, Ministers may have too often found them readier to pay a. court to them, than to correl them. 
As Advisers of Kings, it is, perhaps, to be wished, that, instead of concurring with them, to plunge the nation unnecessarily into debt, they had less refpested those passions and weaknestes of theirs, which were the causes of that debt, of which so great a part has been incurred in a direct opposition to the national interest; so that the worst was not the ad.t itself of increasing the. debt. 
And here there occurs a not uncurious remark,, which I do not care whether any one has made before me or not, soit is but a true and a just one. 
In the earliest ages of Britain and of Gaul, long before Julius Csefar actually destroyed the 
liberty; 

; * 

'i 
8a 
Mr. Mellefont 
liberty of one, and laid the foundation of destroying the liberty of the other, as he too fatally did that of his own country, the power of the Law was predominant over that of the Sword, which was nothing more than executively its'minister. But the guardianship of the laws made in the popular assemblies, was trusted to the peace officers; a dessgnation I prefer to the word Clergy, (which, in those times, long prior to Christianity, bore quite another construqion than it now does; that I may not appear partial to my own order.) However, by various revolutions, the Sword at length prevailed. The power was wrested out of the hands of the Law, and put into those of the military, who to trial by Courts and Juries substituted that of judiciary Duels, on the absurd barbarism of which it is Superfluous to insist, In the ancient fistem, the Man of Learning and the Judge were united; in the fubsequent one, the Soldier and the Judge. But how far our Nobles maintain either the judiciary or the military charafiter, let those who know them best determine. 
I 
To me our Lords in general appear Somewhat like the French Abies who having renounced the graver functions annexed to their primordial institution, constitute a kind of body, which the greatest privilege Seems to be that of doing nothing, and of circulating in Society, their Sad inutility. By this means those Abhh have lost much of their dignity, nothing being more conformable to the principles of equity, than that whoever withdraws from the performance of those duties, for which they are allowed a consideration, lucrative, or honorary, or both, should incontestably forfeit such constderation. Where then any class of men falls under that description, if they are not dead in law, are not they manifestly So in equity? Who is not fensible, that a body from which the Spirit is departed. 

to Mrs. Buckley. 

parted, does not present an idea of great sweetness?? 
is more demonstrable, than that originally most of the lands of the nobility were as purely military benefices as bistiopricks were ecclesiastical ones, both fubjefit to a discharge of their refpefitive duties, and neither of them hereditary. 
Kt length, indeed, the French Set us the example, which it was natural enough for the Barons, (who in their double quality of Judges and Generals had. both the Law and the Power in their own hands,) to follow, of changing the nature of the military benefices and titles, and of making them like allodial estates, tranfmifsable by inheritance. But even then it was not understood, that Such a right of descent should absolve them from the discharge of those duties, for which the revenues of their estates were considered by the whole nation as standing salaries. A Duke, even on this new footing, was a born Leader of an army; an Earl or Count a General, a vice count a Lieutenant-general, and soon; but every one of these titles implied a duty of a6tual military service to the public. Nor indeed could any dispensation from it take place, with more propriety, with more justice, than if our lords the Bishops were very gravely to bring in a bill into the house, for leave to entail their titles and temporalities in their families, without any incumbence on them to discharge the episcopal duties. 
So that, in stridl fads, our Nobles hold their advantages of fortune and honour less by the spirit of the law, than by its prefcriptive connivence at such a sine cure tenure, as is very different from the original institution, and even from the first alteration of that institution. Nor could the nation, in its grant of land for actual service, or even for reward of past service, ever be imagined to include 
86 
Mr. Me LLEFONT 
elude in the idea of reward, a birthright to the descendants, from those So paid or rewarded, of lying an useless insignificant load on it; or intend, as matter of claim for them, the privilege of worth leffnefs, and the mockery of empty titles of a military service, which they never perform, and which they leave to others under the modern denominations of General, lieutenant-general, Bri, 
, who have just as clear a right to expert that their pay, subject to no difeharge of duty, shall be made hereditary in their families, as the merely titular officers of the nobility ever had to procure, as they actually did procure their feo dal tenures to be; the service for which they have So prudently commuted for only paying their share of the general taxation. 
Of this our Nobility, could not be too much reminded, even for their own sakes, as it might tend to excite in them a Spirit of gratitude to a country, by whose courtesy they are allowed the uti poffidetis of So many gratuitous advantages. It might kindle a desire in them to merit, by some degree of utility to the public, that respect which they cannot otherwise claim with the best grace imaginable especially while it is hardly possible for others topayless'of it to them than they do to themselves : it might rouse in them a noble disdain of any honour but what is intrinstcally honour in itself, in a just distindfion of it from that contemptible Spurious honour, which has no better foundation than a prescriptive error of opinion and vulgar prejudice. 
As it is, how very few of them are there, that do not acquiesce in the most ignoble obfeurity 1 poor immemorable insignificants, content with never being named among those who defend' their country with their arms, or prosper it with their counsels I .Does their august body, in fads, form, 
cow 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
87 
nowadays, many very great Generals to command armies, many Speakers of real eloquence in the house, or many Statesmen of abilities to take charge of the national power, or oare of the public interest? Is not there rather a deplorable Scarcity of all these?? cannot but see, especially as to the offices of government, the distress to which this country is reduced for supplying proper personages to fill them. Many have been called Ministers, but how few of them were chosen!! having born that name, who were no more of the standard of capacity requisite for the conduct of affairs, than the obfidonial coins of copper are of a metal answerable to the value stamped upon them, by authority, both, for want of better, owing their temporary currency to the urgency of necestity. 
Nor is it a wonder that places should be so contemptibly filled, while rank avarice, without a Spark of honour or of patriotism, is the principal motive of courting, or of accepting employments: Avarice, that execrable passion, allied to every meanness, and which gives a rage for power to none more than to those who are the least capable of doing justice to it. 
But if Some of our Great would but calculate the worth of what theyloseof real good and Solid Satisfafilion, by Suffering themselves to be blinded by a Sordid felfishness, which not only undignifies them; but endangers their much Superior interest in the public welfare, they would Spurn the idea of any complaisance to a Court, at the expense of their duty; nobly just to which, they would, in fa£f, do much greater Service to their country, to their King, and even to themselves. 
As things are, the corruption of the men of power is arrived at Such an incredible pitch of profligacy, that there are Some of them, who make 
it a point of their importance to be paid not only 
for 
ss 
Mr. Mellefont 
for the good they do not hinder, but for the mis chief they do not do to their country. Figure to yourself the meanness ef such as can hug themselves not only on what they save by not doing a good action, but on what they get by a bad 
ene. 
these reflections, however, are extorted from, me by my sincere regard for that part of our constitution, against which it can surely be no offence, to wisti it more essential, more estimable; their political life and dignity capitally depending on their degree of conssderation with the public, which always measures its esteem of men and things by. their utility to it. 
You may also see by this, dear aunt, that I am not likely to be dazzled by any offers, however honourable that may come from the Earl Lovell, merely in his quality of Lord, for which. Singly considered, I neither esteem nor despise limit is not in his title, it is not in. opulence, but in his chara6ter that Clara is to find her happiness: and I am much mistaken, if she is ever atalanta like,, lured out of her career of honour and prudence,, by the glitter, though it were of the whole globe in gold 
What Ishould apprehend for her mosr, and of which' yet, I am afraid not only to wound her delicacy with: the mention, but in the very mention to incline her the more to what I apprehend, is. her giving to respects of family interest a weight in her determination' that might unfavourably affect her future condition. Knowing how much easier it is to keep egotism. out of ones’s words, than out of one’s thoughts and adiions, it is not toa sine verbofeform of protestation that I trust your doing justice to the clear — nefs of my spirit, but to that instindlive worthiness of your own heart, which cannot fail of doing justice to the. reality of my fenliments. It is then,, 
oet. 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
89 
on this unaffected principle, that I entreat of you to make Clara fensible that she could not, on this occasion, offer to me, or to her Sister, a greater indignity, than that of not following the directions of her own heart, in so sacred a point of personal importance to her, as the disposal of herself for life. 
Hoping and believing everything for the best, I am ever, dear Aunt, 
Yours, c. 
Edward Mellefont. 
1. E T T E R XI 
Lord lovell/o Henry Golding, 
London. 
All is lost, dear Hal, or lb very near it, that 
I have but one chance left, and if that Should fail me, why then, heigh for the lover’s leap, for I will be cursed if ever I take the matrimonial one. That is a state of punishment to which, I hope, I am not predestinated. 
You must know, there is no stratagem, no art, that I could think of, but what I have been trying, to establish my point with this strange, perverse, what shall I call her, Angel, for that word is at the end of my pen, and places itself on the paper, almost without my leave. 
I had often Seen a woman caught by the discontinuance of a lover’s chase, which as Soon as she perceived, she wheeled about infensibly, in a doubling maze, and chopped into his mouth. Upon this plan, I had, for Some days, left off that constancy of visits with which I had besteged her at my stster’s; or if I went there, I not only took no notice of Clara, beyond that kind of common 
civi 

90 
Lord Lovell 
/ 
civility, which is half an insult, when it has been for sometime preceded by more particular distinctions, but I occastonally stngled out t^ady Arabella Castres, a very pretty young lady, who is often with them, and began to pay her such a court, as I flattered myself would be observed by Clara, and pique, at least her vanity, or alarm that fear. So natural to women, the fear of losing a conquest. But I might just as well have spared myself the pains of playing a part that cost me So mach repugnance, for Clara never once gave the least stgn of paying any more attention to my airs of defection, or change, than stie had done to my tenderest assiduities. In short, I found myself not a whit the forwarder for this often successful stale stratagem of love militant. I Soon then came back to my colours, without her taking any more notice of my return to her, than she had done of ray leaving her. But what yet hurt me worst of all, was that intrepid ease, gaiety, and frankness, with which she never failed of using me, in common with every one elfe, except when I ventured to be particular to her, when, without any Simpton of emotion, she behaved to me with Such a frozen reserve, So chilling an indifference, that her anger would have been a thousand times more preferable, and less discouraging. This is the more galling, Hal, for that you well know I am not used to such treatment. 
‘‘ Give her over, ” you will say. Ay, that I would if I could; but a hatchet struck into my head could not give me greater pain than but the thought of it. I am even obliged to persevere, in my own defence; for while she remains unpof feffed, she so thoroughly engrosses my whole faculties of dessre, that she not only hinders me from being happy with herself, but with the whole 
Sex besides. Her incompatable image rises to me 
in 
to Henry Golding, Esq'., 91 
in bar of every application to another woman. My constancy is not So much a merit as a necestity. In short, I could with pleasure sacrifice half my estate to the getting her upon my own terms. Nay, I would gladly say to her. Spare my liberty, and take my fortune. Nay, in Some moments the devil of desire tempts me so violently, torments me so fiercely, that I could almost marry her in a pafilon, if it were but to get rid of my damned love. 
I had, however, a glimmering of hope left, and that was to come at her through a kind of aunt, one Mrs. Buckley, whom I mentioned to you in my last, and who, I had reason to think, knew the world, and understood prafitice. To her, then, I made my application, with such offers as would have engaged many a lord that I could name to Sell himself, and throw his country like paper and packthread, into the bargain. But I happened to be devilishly out in my conjectures about her; I met with such a let down, Haj, such a letdown!! am not yet above half recovered of the cursed cut I then received over my crest. In short, that string is entirely Snapped; and against touching the matrimonial one, even though with no other intention than to make it subservient to my purpose of avoiding matrimony, I have an aversion that equals the horror of water in one bitten by a mad dog. And yet, I find I must have recourse to that detested expedient, and strike my referve blow. 
I had fortunately thrown into my apology to Mrs. Buckley, the hint of my design to repair the injury she was pleased to think done to clara’s honour, in my application to her for her good offices. Now this hint lays a plausible enough foundation for my intended plan of procedure. 
I propose, then to make a falfe confidence to Lady Lovell, of my having entertained Serious 
? -, 
U 
92 
Lord Lovell 
thoughts of honourable addresses to Clara. There is not the least reason to fear her taking me at my word. It is, perhaps, the only point I could pitch on, which 1 would not be sure of carrying with her fondness But in this I am as far from expecting to find her tractable, as, indeed, I am from wistiing it. No. The old Lady, at the bare mention of it, will take fire finely; and the least She will do will be to lay me under t e whole weight of her disgrace. So much the better. The more noise she will make, and I dare swear she will not make a little, the more Service she will do me. In asking what I foreknow will not be granted, I Shall, to borrow an expression of Lord haversham’s, have ‘‘ acted a denial, ” and that isr the very thing I want. In the meanwhile, the devil will be in it if this motion of mine will not at least look well. Such a proof of my Sincerity must reconcile me to Mrs. Buckley, and to Clara give me Such a merit of Suffering for her Sake, as may not improbably place me on a better footing with her than I have hitherto been. The ground will be the less hard for my approaches. Not to mention, that by this step, I Shall get Lady Harriet greatly in my interest, who would not, for the world promote it in any other way, and will zealoussy do it in this, from the joy it would give her at once to make her friend’s fortune, to contribute to what she sincerely believes would renderlme happy, and draw closer the ties of friendship between her and Clara, of whom she is excessively fond; nor, everything considered, faith, do I wonder at it. 
Of Such a situation, then, it will be hard, indeed, if I do not make my advantage, without the danger of being drawn into an engagement, which all this art is meant to elude. 
But to put things at the worst, and to suppose an impossibility, was Lady Lovel to deprive me of ths plea of her refufalof consent, my game would 
be 
to Henry Golding, Efqy 93 
be indeed more difficult, but far from desperate. I should, by the time it would take to bring her to that point, have, in all human probability, sofar lamiliarifed and ingratiated myself with Clara, as to stand fair for the benefit of that chapter of accidents, which so often favours the bold and artful lover. You understand me, Hal. 
And now dare, alter this, to think yourself so necessary to my schemes of gallantry, that I could not take a step out of your leading strings. However, I really wish you was with me, though, from your last, 1 have not much room to expeq; it. 
Yours, 
1.0 V®''" 

letter XII 
Henry Golding, Esq to Lord Lovell 
My Lord., 
Chejier. 
W 
PON my honour, your Lordship is a noble engineer What a train have you laid to blow up the sort of that little Spitfire? Is it for me to preiume to be “necessary to your Schemes of gal“ “?” No, no, you beat me hollow. ’till I knew your lordship, I thought I was Somebody at that Sport, but I find now I am nobody. If 5 mean to get on, I must go to School to your Lordship; you are aperfe6t Matchawellat intreagues. All I have to Say, is, and you must give me leave to be free with your Lordship knows I am apt to be too Sin imusttellyou, I think you give yourself a damned deal of trouble when you might have readier meals than running hares. May I be the capital figure of the first collar day at Tyburn, if I think aii)f of the pusses worth the pains of hunting them 
tender. 
you, 
cear 
t 
94 
Lord Lovell 
tender. Zounds! give me the thing at hand, a good willing tit, even though she stood at livery in one of the stalls at covent-garden, before any of your shy ones, with all their damned vartue at their tails. I know your Lordship will immediately twit me in the teeth with the rilk I run of being had before Dr. Rock, for misdemeanours of that kind. All that is true, my Lord, but a little discretion is a fine thing. Merry and wife, say I. With good care, and picking of one’s bits, there may be found flesh as sweet and as little fly blown in a baud’s larder, as in the safe of a nunnery. Indeed, it requires Some person that knows the market well to be the caterer, and grant clean bills of health, otherwise there is no insurance a gainst consequences. Take things as they run in common there is no venturing on muscles, mushrooms, and women of the town; the danger sells the pleasure. 
You are, I find, for keeping, but that Is a devilish expensive lay. If your mistress should not even play you jades tricks, and keep true to you, as it is hot to be supposed she could do otherwise to Such a fine gentleman as your Lordship, why then there’s brats and christenings, till at last you come as much into family order as if you was lawfully tethered; unless your Lordship would do as I do, who always leave the cow and the calf to shift for their own fodder. 
But as to bidding matrimony defiance, there we agree to a charm; with this difference, that your Lordship, being much wiser than I, has taken upon trust the torments of that hell of a state; whereas nothing would serve me but I must be puppy enough to make personally the experiment, and it turned out as I deserved;; by Jove I was finely Sped. I married for a fortune, which did not, however turn out near what I had imagined, a woman rather stricken in years, who caught me, 
by 
( 
I 
i 
so Lord Lovell. 
9s 

I 
by looking as if she would die. But, what do you think? My precious had the impudence to he jealous of me, and gave herself the airs of expelling I shouuld be constant to her stale charms. conr stant, too! with a vengeance! But I was even with her: I presently broke the beldame of wearing vest low stockings, and cured her suspicions for ever, by certainty; for I brought home too strapping drabs, kept them for Some time under her nose, by way of exercise for her patient gfizzleship, and then turned her a drift upon board wages However, the dear creature is dead, at last, though, by the way, her heart was so tough, it look a damned deal of breaking I found it a great deal easter to get rid of her fortune than of herself— — if ever I am caught again in that noose, may my wife turn the tables upon me, and send me to the wrong stde of the turf. 
I love women well enough, when I vrant them, but who the deuce would choose to live in a cook’s 'shop, where the meat is for ever under his nose, whether he has any stomach to it or not? Wives, too, are such unconscionable creatures, they are for ever either picking a quarrel with you for the sake of the sweets of reconciliation, or extorting more fondness from you than you can well afford, when the poor devil of a husband is like a debtor in a fpunging house, Squeezed for expense, without his either being in cash or in cue for it., In short, my Lord, matrimony is the devil, and all the joys of it as much against the grain as statute labour, or as dull as playing at cards for nothing. Talk of happy marriages! one may as well talk of Soft thunder, stow lightning, a jolly famine, a sweet plague, lively funerals, plump fkeleton’s, and pretty death’s heads. 
From my soul, then, I worship your better genus, forinfpiring you with Such a Scorn of the trap. 
As 


► » 

9^ 
Henry Golding, Esq, yol 
As for that vixon to whom you are now, it Seems, doing the honour of a chase, hang me, if I do not believe your Lorplhip is taking the advantage of my absence to hum me. It is a very likely story, indeed that any girl of her degree in life, with flesh and blood about her, could hold out four and twenty hours against such proffers as yours, with so handsome a young nobleman tacked to them Who does not know, my Lord, that you are the crack of the field, with gold to silver odds in your favour. But'l see what it is, you are so geuerous a sportsman, that you mean to give her law; you have not yet put forth half your strength; whenever it comes to that, my life to an old flioe, that she will lay Subdued and breathless before you. 
In the meanwhile, it is but too true that I am detained here Sore against my will, but I hope it will not be so long as your Lordship seems to think; and, to say the truth, in the method of sap that you are conducting your Siege, I do not apprehend that I could be of much use to you, as you are so much a better engineer than myself. Storming is more in my way. Say but the word, and I will, at all events, come post to town and provide four barrels of gun powder to blow up the beldame at Richmond, and half adozen mirmidons, that in ti e face of day shall carry off your Princess in triumph, and plump her into your arms. 
Your Lordship is, I hope, persuaded, that no Cormantine Negroe could be more absolutely devoted to your commands, than, 
My Lord, 
Your lordship’s most humble, 
and most obedient Servant, 
Henry Golding. 
End of the First Volume. 
THE 
w 
o 
M 
A 
N 
O F 
H 
O 
N 
O 
In THREE VOLUMES. 
VOLUME II 
Letters bring things more home, and represent them more to the life, than either Annals or Lives. 
Bacon, Lord Verulam. 

DUBLIN: 
Printed for James Williams, in Skinner raw, 
M DCC LXVIII 
BOOKS of Entertainment, 
Published by James Williams, Bookseller, 
in Skinner row. 
THE 
BUS Y b O D Y; 
OR THE 
ADVENTURES of Monsieur BIGAND, 
# 
A Man infinitely inquisitive and enterprising, even to Rashness; which unhappy Faculties, nevertheless, instead of ruining, raised him from the lowest Obscurity, to a most splendid Fortune. Interspersed with Several humorous Stories. The whole containing great Variety of Adventures, equally instruftive and inviting. In two Vols. Price 5s. 3 d. bound. 
ALSO, 
L E T T E R S 
FROM 
ALTAMONT in LONDON, 
To his Friend in the Country, Price as. 2d. bound. 
• 4 • 
ALSO, 
The VIRTUOUS WIDOW: 
OR, THE 
MEMOIRS of the Baro NESS DE ba'tt'evili.e 
2s. d bound. 
By Madam de Beaumont. 
N 
M 

O 
R 
OF A 
WOMAN of HONOUR. 

•S 



; > • 
LETTER XIII 
Mr. Buckley, to Mr, Mellefont. 
Richmond. 
Wrote you, I think, dear nephew. Some letters that the Scenes threatened to grow more 
ago 
and more interesting; and I have Such an one now for your entertainment, as though it came upon us as unexpefited as a clap of thunder in a Serene Iky, has not a little diverted and edified me, I need no great prologue to prepare you for anticipating Clara to be the heroine of it; which is the very reafort you would never frorn her hear the particulars. They do her too much honour for herself to Specify them to you. 
Three nights ago I had received a joint card from Lady Harriet and Clara, acquainting me of their design next morning to make a kind of grand tour of the Shops, to buy a number of articles of dress and decoration, of which Lady Harriet had prepared a list, [against the Marquess of sober ton’s arrival, I fuppose, who is now hourly expected with the next fair wind; So that the proposed match will immediately take effect] ] card concluded with a request to me, to assist them in quality of their council of taste; a Service for which, I was, however, disqualified, by my' having long lost sight of the fashion: Not 
Vol. II Fa that 

loo 
Mrs, Buckley 
’j 
/. 
that I at all disapprove, especially in young people, of an attention to it, when not carried to a foolish excess; and am So far from despising dress in our sex, that I think too great a neglect of it, a worse fault, if possible, than running into that of over drefs, where beauty perishes, overlaid with perfidious ornaments, through a mistake as miserable as that of the Roman virgin Smothered under the Gallic Shields, instead of the trinkets Ihe had bargained for, as the reward of her treason. 
In compliance, nevertheless with the desire of two persons so dear to me, I waited on them next morning; and, after finishing the round of our purchases, we returned home to Lady harriet’s a partment, where, just as we were busily employed in unfolding a piece of Silk of our spital fields manufacture, and admiring its richness of taste, and excellence of the work. Lady Lovell came into the room, abruptly and unawares upon us. 
I scarcely need, I should think, observe to you, that, though frequently on a visit to Lady Harriet, and Clara, both whom I almost equally love and esteem, I had always, though Avithout any cause of umbrage or offence, declined any court to this lady, her humour, temper, and opinions, being so different from mine, and indeed from her daughter’s. This you will have of yourself concluded, from what I have precedently touched to you of her character. She was formally pdlite to me, I coolly civil to her. This was not, you may be Sure, the way for us to run into mutual intimacy, which I am sure I was far from desiring, nor, probably her ladyship either. 
She had, I guess, stood a few moments, observing us. At length we Saw her, and paid her the due respedks; which she did not in the least return. I could plainly see her eyes Sparkling, her ..cheeks reddened, her lips blue, and quivering with 
rage. 
i ^ ' 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
loi 
rage, but had not So much as the most distant Suspicion of the cause: : did not Suffer us to languish long in the ignorance of it. The torrent presently burst out, direted to Lady Harriet, in the following tenor, as near as I can recollect it. 
So! Lady Harriet, is this then the reward for all my tenderness, all my care of you, to be the instrument of stabbing me to the heart, in laying baits for your weak silly brother, to destroy the hopes of our family for ever? Was it for this you have brought that firebrand to our house, that female friend of yours, that parson’s daughter, with her whole dowry of charms, talents, and Sentiments; is that an alliance to illustrate So noble a stock as ours? 
n 

€C 
€C 

€< 


ic 
Here has been Lord Lovell just now with me, to alk my consent for making his addresses, to that little creature there; but I have Sent him away with the answer he deserves, nor will ever see him again if I know he dares but to think of a match, than his stooping to which, I would Sooner by much See him laid in his grave, as well as I love him, and, indeed because I do love him too well to See him run headlong into Such mean and despicable ruin. — As for you, miss, (turning to Clara,) are all your pretences to virtue and morality reducible to nothing better than to the Seducing a Son from his obedience, and making a daughter an accomplice of the guilt? And you. Madam matchmaker, (here I came in for my share,) what was you to have for your part of the management? Gracious Heavens! how has the honour and quiet of this family been bought and sold among Such a pack of you? Oh, my poor deluded Son!” 
During this Speech, nothing could equal the consternation of poor Lady Harriet, except the 
F 3 com 
€( 
ic 
fc 
€C 
€6 
ic 
<< 
c 



II 

V 
102 
Mrs. B U O K L E Y 
composure of Clara. For myself, I can Safely Say, I felt no emotion but that of a sincere ssmpathy for the tenderness of a mother anxious for a fon’s welfare; as much misguided as Lady Lovell was on this occasion, I refpefled her motive, and pitied her mistake. 
Her daughter stood, literally Speaking, mute with ustonifhment and grief. I was myself, in default, of her answer, preparing to say Something, when Clara, making a Sign to Speak, prevented me. Lifting then up her eyes to Lady Lovell, and fixing ^thera on her with the utmost modesty,. but with vall the dignity of insulted innocence, she Spoke with a tone of voice, So mild, ' So Sweet, as made it plain, that the provocation had thrown no acrimony into a Spirit greatly Superior to it. 
She told her ladyship, that, nothing; in this treatment, which wa given a violation of hafpitality, hurt her So much as. the afflioiion she saw.it gave to Lady Harriet, than whom none better knew the injuriousnefs of that fuspicion, which: Lady Lovell had given for her cause of ill usage; that she herself had never in word, adfion,; or thought, .encouraged Lord. lovell’s deigning to look down; .So low as her; nor, what was more, ever intended it, if that promise could give her ladyship any ..Satisfadiion : that she was rather Surprised at his lordship’s having given Lady Lovell Such occaston of uneasiness, as asking her consent, before he. had obtained her’s, (clara’s;) which she most humbly entreated; her ladyship to believe she was as far from giving, as her ladyship could possibly ■ her’s; that to quiet her alarms, she would venture to offer her the most Sacred assurances she could require, that she would never give any the least distant encouragement to her Son, who she hum •bly presumed might very well have Spared her 
the 
h' • 
to 
Me L LE F O N T. 
103 
the pain of receiving, in herself, and in the person of her equally innocent relation. So cruel and So undeserved an insult' ' 
then, to Lady Harriet, who stood by in the utmost confusion, pale, and ready to faint with grief and shame at this treatment of her, she' entreated of her not to give herself any the least uneastnefs on her account; adding, that their Separation would soon have come on in course;; its being a little prematured was of no great moment, and carrieff with it the consolation for the manner in which it was taking place, of nothing, on their stde, having provoked it; that she took leave of her, and thanked her for all her' kindness, which she should eternally remember 'with the utmost gratitude of heart, while she would certainly forget, or rather had already forgot, the indignity offered to her, by one So justly dear to Lady Harriet, and whom she should, on that account, never cease to respect.. 
this was Said and done without any fine tal~tidum Xowtf or any theatrical airs, but purely with Such an easy natural stmplicity, as showed she was capable of the greatest fentihients, without any effort, as being rather born than bred in her. Then taking me by the hand, she was moving towards the door to leave the room immediately with me, when Lady Harriet, ihcap'a** hie of commanding her fentirhents, and unchecked by the presence of her mother. Sprung round her neck, and bathed her with her tears, till Clara, in the fear of its being disagreeable to Lady' Lovell, disintangled herself from her arms, and with the tenderest Smipathy once more took leave of her, Lady Harriet continuing speechless, and bursting with a vexation, to wshiclv her respect for her 'mother forbid her giving vent. At parting she darted at me the tenderest and 
F 4 most. 
104 
Mrs. Buckley 
most beseeching look, expressive of the most earnest request not to involve her, with Lady Lovell, in my resentment of this usage. 
As for that Lady herself, I, who had all the time with great coolness kept the most contemptuous Silence, could easily observe, that the abruptness of clara’s departure, combined with the irresistible force of truth there was in what she had Said of her never having given her Son the least encouragement, struck her with Some astonishment, and with Some regret for having proceeded wi h Such precipitation. I read in her looks a willing ness to come to an explanation, which Clara e liided, with a noble disdain, by immediately withdrawing. 
We then went down direq: !y into the hall, where nothing of what had pasted above had, from its suddenness, yet reached; and you may guess the Surprise of the Servants, when Clara, calling for her maid, desired her to come, as Soon as poltible, after her, to my house at Richmond with her trunks and baggage. Then whispering to me where she would go, about half a street off, for a few minutes, till a coach could be got ready, she addressed herself to the Servants, who were giving the most unfeigned ssgns of Sorrow in their countenances, and telling them, she hoped they wmuld forgive her having been of So much trouble to them, and begged them to accept, as a mark of her grateful remembrance, a purse of ten guineas, which she put into the porter’s hands. All this did not take up the Space of two minutes. 
We Soon got to Richmond, in the way to which Clara appeared wholly taken up with her regret of the pain she might Safely believe this untoward incident would give to Lady Harriet, who, however, she observed, with a Smile of Sincere 
to Mr. Mellefont. 105 
cere pleasure, would Soon have her concern alleviated by the arrival of her long ssghed for Lord Soberton, upon which she would be the first to congratulate her. As this reflection, 1 Saw, had brought back all her good-humour,. I just ventured to touch to her on the cause of the thunderstorm, from which we were actually making our escape, the preposterous step Lord Lovell had taken, in alking his mother’s consent, before he had her leave, whose dispositions should rather have been first consulted. 
Clara, without caring to enter into a subject, for which she appeared to have the utmost indifference, only laughed, and said she was not versed enough in the ceremonial law of courtship, to know whether he had erred against it or not. 
but that if he had thought it worth his while previously to know her mind, he might very well have spared Lady Lovell (b terril)le an alarm. 
For my own part, I realty do not know what to judge of this procedure of Lord lovell’s. It may or it may not be well meant, but, certainly, considering his mother’s known humour, he has allied at least very indircreetly, in an application where he might so reasonably presume a denial, and has gained very little advance with Clara, by giving her room to imagine he considered her consent as a thing implicitly in course. If his lordship, then, on the strength of his title, fortune and person, shall have taken for granted, his hav ing nothing more to do, even were he to obtain? Lady lovell’s acquiescence, than to signify his pleasure to Clara, so much, I think, I know of her,, I might question whether he would, find his progress much greater than that of Punehinello’s’ match, half made, since he had got his. own consent. And, by the by, I should be loth to Swear his lordship had got his ’ own,. 
■ F clar.a’is 
5 


io 
Lady Harr i e r 
clara’s .maid did not till the next day come with the things shat her niistrefs had left in town, to whom she brought the following letter from Lady Harriet, .with which I conclude this. 
Yours, See. 
Lucy Buckley. 
o&0o000c000chs000: 00000000000000 
'fl 
E T T E R XIV 
( 
frm Lady Harriet Clara Mayn 
WARING. 
London. 
I Need not, I hope, tell you into how deep a dis trefs I was thrown by the indignity offered to you yesterday. I should in vain endeavour to express to you the poignancy of my feelings; but I should not do you justice, if I could fear your refusing it to me. You will disdain to make me responsible for, thosc errors of others, which I am but she greater object of pity, for my being forced, in some measure, not to condemn with all the asperity they deserve. 
Do you, if but on my account, deign to have any curiosity about what pasted after your leaving ns? Without waiting your answer, allow me to take for granted that you have, and to Satisfy it accordingly. 
My mother and I staying in the room after you was gone out, she had not quite recovered the Sort of confusion in which your admirable behaviour had left her, when she, turned to me, who stood by keeping a stlence, in which it was plain to See no Small share of indignation at what had pasted. 
I underwent, then, a Severe examination about th^shatter of her displeasure; in the course of 
which. 
to Glara mavnwaring. 
io 
which, nothing could be So easy as my part, ssnce I bad nothing to do but to tell the plain truth, which Was only eonfirmative of your just assurance of iiever having in the least encouraged my brother’s addresses; I might Safely have gone farther, and, that you had constantly behaved to him with Such an excess of coolness and indifference, as I had often thought rather leaning to the other excess. But, in the humour The was in, I plainly Saw ssie might perhaps push her injustice So Tar as to call this artifice and design.. respedled, then my poor mother too much to give her occasion for adding one more egregious mistake to those under which she was already not making the. best of : figures,. 
So far Iliad done justice to youj but there now, remained for me to do a piece of justice onmyself,, in a fair confession to Lady Lovell, Thatsthere was ■ nothing Thad hardly .wished more ardently, than ^ that my brother, should, be foi happy as to gain i your good gracesj being; very Sure that he would i have the: best of the bargain. My mother would; not Suffer me to go on, but fell into Such a. fury ■ Nis exceeds description. I. verily once thought she would have struck me.. Aye! now she was Sure you had bewitched me as. well; as her Son, but she would,, as far. as was in.; her power,; deliver m from. yours; She forbade me then absolutely, on pain of her highest difpleasure, to see you and i Mrs. .Buckley any.more adding, that when I was >. mistress of my own conduct, alluding, I suppose,. to my marriage with Lord Soberton,, I Tvas to dp as I pleased, but that in the meanwhile she : would be obeyed; and that as to^ her Son, he might lay his account with’ irrevocable marks of • her difpleasure, if he should deserve them by an = alliance of himself So. contrary to her designs for - 

los 
Lady Harriet 
Dear Clara, I love my brother well, but Sincerity still better. It is this that makes me observe to you, that though there is Somewhat Specious in his proposal to Lady Lovell, of honourable addresses to you, there is, to me, who know him thoroughly. Something too crude, too irregular in that step. What could hinder him from previously opening himself to me, if he had not the heart to begin, as was most proper, by declaring himself to you } He could not, from my Sentiments of you. So well known to him, expe^ I Should be very unfavourable to him. In the meanwhile, I pafs with my mother for an accomplice, where I ivas not So much as a confidant; though I Should not have had the least Scruple of being both. You see, however, that I do not Shrink from the charge, or wish to disown the honour of it. No. I think my disgrace a triumph, without any impeachment of filial duty; because I am very Sure my mother’s resentment turns upon a false fafit; and though I am bound to respefit her errors, nothing obliges me not to See them, or not to hope her Seeing them herself. 
- Pray my best and tenderest respedls to Mrs. Buckley, on whose excellent sense I may sasely depend, for her Seeing, in my present situation, nothing to forgive, and a great deal to pity me. I ssiall not exist till I see you both. I have but one ithing to wish, that my choice in love may be as honourable to me as in friendship; I may add, as happy, for I do not look on the late undeserv ed, and, at bottom, ridiculous, injury offered to it, as any material interruption. May it have, with regard to me, the Same effect on you it has on me, that of endearing you the more to me! 
Yours, c. 
piarriet Lovell. 
L 
(. 

[ 109 ] 
L E T T E R XV 
I 
Mrs. Buckley, to Mr. Mellefont. 
Pear nephew Richmond. 
I Received yesterday a vistt from Lord Lovell, which I did not think I could well refuse. He made, as I expefited, a great parade of merit to me, in having done his best to repair the affront he had offered me, (and for which he renewed his entreaties of forgiveness)) the commencement of a more honourable procedure, in the overtures he had made of his designs to Lady Lovell, whose dispositions he owned he knew, but did not despair of over coming. 
His reason, he said, for not preliminarily addressing himself to Clara, was, that he thought he needed, erpecially after what had passed between him and me, a foundation of Sufficient proof of the purity of his intentions. He hoped he stiould find the acceptance of his Suit, independent of his success with his mother, and that he had now cleared his way for a request to me, that I would admit his visits, on a footing, to which, he presumed, there could be no objection. 
He also expressed abundance of sorrow and resentment for the Icene, of which he had been innocently the cause, when Clara left the house, and concluded, with an earnest desire to pay his respefits personally to her. 
As I was prepared on all points for this visit, by a full knowledge of clara’s mind, about him and his pretentions, I told his Lordship, in a polite, but preremptory tone, that, without entering into the merit of his sincerity, I thought myself obliged not to deceive him with false hopes; that he might make Lady Lovell perfectly easy, by desisting from a fruitless purfoit, for 
mat 
V 
iro 
Mrs. Buckley 
that Clara, independent of any consent, or refusal of consent, from his mother, Was determined to receive no addresses from stim; and that even if he was not, in quality of brother to Lady Harriet, entitled to the moss favourable distinction, tier common gratitude, combined with her detestation of all coquetry, would oblige her to Spare him the trouble in vain of a Solicitation, a gainst listening to which she had taken an unalterable resolution: that she acknowledged he did her more honour than she deserved, but that he would still do her a greater pleasure, if he Would take this answer as final. 
You will, dear nephew, easily conceive how much a vain man, who had, du’ alt his; advantages, and on the merit of the step he had recently taken, presumed a reception with open arms, must be mortified’: at fugh: a rebuff. He then wanted to draw me into some explanation of the nature and cause of this aversion of Clara against, him; but I stuck closely to my point, which was fimply that of a flat difmiiflion of his Suit,, without giving any reason, or leaving him. any glimpse of, hope, that she might be brought to. alter her mind. 
He alked me again if he might have leave to see Clara; but to that request I answered by an. appeal to hinifelf, whether, after such an answer • he had received, she could well admit a vifitr from him, unless he imagined that this rejedtion df her’s was mere grimace, lure, and artifice, which, were not at all in her character. 
Lord Lovell interrupted ifie here, „ and' Said he felt it but too Severely,; that, he was so difconcer -- ted, so shocked, that he did not know what to say;; I really believe, for I could plainly difeern in his countenance the distradling emotions ol wounded vanity and disappointed desire 
», <■ ♦ Mr. M e L L e f o n t. hi 
He then took leave, and the next stay 'Sent a letter to Clara, who returned it unopened. 
I am fensible, that on fhis occaston the - world would be forward enough to condemn Clara, for being wanting to her fortune; and the World would be in the right, if felicity depended Solely on fortune, which may, indeed, ' be always a de ssrable accessory, but can never have the honour of being constdered as a principal. Is it, then, clara’s fault, if the world makes wrong estimates info effenrial a concern? Gris (he to facristce the happiness of her life to the falsity of its judgement? 
Surely, of all the human duties not the least Sacred is that of not marrying one whom one does not love. It is even a crime against the person one marries under that circumstance. A crime so often productive of many others; a crime into which no parents ought to wisti to Seduce a child. It then, purely on this virtuous, this indifpensable principle, that Clara has refused Lord Lovell. Nor is he the only one, by many, to whom she has given the like answer, a number of suitors having already followed her to my house. But she is generally denied to every one, except to a few ladies, and to one or two gentlemen, much advanced in years, of whose conversation she used, to be fond at Lady lovell’s, not, most certainly, for their being old, but for the improvement of her understanding, which she is astlduousty cultivating. One of them you know very well, Dr., Tyson, who, at past eighty, allies all the graces of youthful vivacity with all the dignity of age.. His manner of instructing young people is admirable : it is not by impostng on them his judgement of things that he aims at leading them, but by engaging them to form their own, on a due examination of all opinions proposed to them. 
IS 
e 
112 Mrs. Buckley 
by the lights of their own reason properly prepared, without trusting to it too much or too little. Nor is it a little honour to clara’s taste and good sense, that she is delighted with his conversation and he with her’s. 
Among her discarded Suitors there was one character which I thought the more curious, for his being a young man: one Mr. South wold, who is, literally speaking, ‘‘ dying of nothing but a rage to live.” With a great fortune, and all circumstances agreeable, he cannot enjoy life, for the perpetual apprehension of its shortness. He is constantly imagining himself Sick; while his disorder is entirely that of his own mind. He fatigues with his complaints all the Phystcians he meets with : Some laugh at him, others prefcrib for him, but they all take his fees, and he their phystc. There is not a quack advertisement he reads, but he fancies the cafe applicable to himself, and sends for the nostrum, and by this means he has at length arrived at destroying, or at least greatly damaging, an originally good constitution. He fcrupulousty weighs all his meat and drink, of which he regulates the quantity by the fanc torian chair, as he does his dress by a barometer., 
I really believe he turned his thoughts on Clara, as much with the view of advantage to his health, from having a nurse of her exquistte bloom andi freshnefs as for anything elfe. Another than. Clara, not tempted by his fortune, or not driven by the want of one to such an hospital, would have laughed at him; Clara only good natured ly pitied his cafe, and wished to recommend him; to Dr. Tyson. 
It is really but jpstice to Clara to observe, that she postestes Sovereignly the talent of declining offers. without offence to those who make them. I know of but one to whom she personally gave 
a. iiiort. 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
” 3 
a short abrupt dismiffion, his vanity having been So offensive that she could not keep measures with it, or disdained to keep them. 
This was young Turpin, Son to the notorious Turpin, who has made one of those scandalously rapid and immense fortunes which so justly provoke the indignation of a public, that could not have been so infamousty pillaged, if the guarding against such depredations had not been even treasonably neglected by those who had the administration of the national treasures, and who, for want of capacity, or of attention to their duty, made or Suffered Such bubbles bargains for their country. If Turpin was not guilty, the government could not be innocent; and, in the meanwhile, leaving that question to be decided as it may, he proceeds enjoying without taste, a fortune gotten without honour. 
But as to the young cub of this beast of prey, you in your life never saw So ignoble, so trivial a figure, with a dull heavy countenance, answerable to his understanding, as if nature had disdained a deception. This was the. wretch, who. Smitten with clara’s beauty, made his addresses to her with an insolence ridiculous enough for its absurdity, but not very Surprising constdering the condition from which this Son of a dunghill Sprung, among the dregs of the people. His style of courtship was that of a man doing Clara great honour and not a little charity, by taking her with such a monstrous” disproportion of fortune, (as if beauty, virtue, and talents were, objects of calculation by pounds st llings and pence,) efpe cieliy too as he had at ally half a dozen Dukes daughters thrown at his head, over whom he was most graciousty giving her the pres. rence. Clara, rather Shocked than angry at his pretentions, which She looked on as so degrading to her, was not 
content 
1 * 
114 
Mrs: B u C K t E Y 
content with a simple rejc6iion of him, but threw ‘ into it, to punish his insolence, much Such an air as one would use to a fodtman offering his Service with worse than no character, with a bad one. 
This, however, is really a' Single instance, for ■ it is impossible for any one to have a greater a verston than Clara for giving pain or uneastnefs. That cruelty of which those whom she refuses coihplain, lies, even by their own confession, in ' the refusal itself, and not in the manner, which • is always the gentlest, though the firmest, ' and f the most peremptory imaginable. But they mistake the term; 'her refusals are not cruelty in her, ■'shut delicacy, and even in that delicacy she is her -- Self purely passive, and consequently not to blafne. Is it her fault if those who have hitherto courted her, could not excite in her a liking Sufficient to determine her choice, and prevail over her attachment to her liberty? H she artswerab'e for their want of power to please?? would it not still she a greater fault in her to encourage the addresses of those" she feels she can never love, and to keep them in suspense with the lure of false hopes? The truth is, she is only difficult; but r believe her heart is far from impenetrable to the passion of love; fensible of which herself she dreads the consequences of a choice that is to embark her for life, on a sea, in which there are a thousand shipwrecks for one good voyage. She may possibly, it will be said, with her niceness, out stay her market. Be it So: that is at her rilk and peril, and at the worst a difficulty of choosing can hardly be worse punished than what a bad choice Commonly is. 
In the meanwhile, from her present ease and tranquillity, you would not conclude her greatly alarmed with the fears of any very bad consequences to her future happiness from her present indifference. Yours, c. Lucy Buckley, 
r[ 
[ 1 ■ 
LET E R XVI 
Clara'• Maynwaring to mr.r. Mellefoijt. 
Richmond. 
** CT^O what vicissitudes, to what unaccotmta >x ble turns: are human; affairs exposed!” 
Do not think, i dear stster, this is a Scrap of morality, ssolen from one of Mr, mellefont’s Sermons, without too iuft a cause of application. The Marquess of Soberton, - after leaving bis father at Spaw, with Some hopes of recovery from his illness, finds, at his return to England, a mother, whom he had left. in ' perfe£i healthy at the point of death, from the Sudden stroke of * an apoplexy. She expires insensible in his iarms. His grief was, I am told, immoderate. Poor Lady Harriet, too! ’ How deeply do I feel for her! Independently of her concern for the mar quefs’s loss, and of the retardment, in respe6t to decency, of an union which she passionately wishes with the objed of her purest love, she loses in the duchess a valuable friend. It was her interest with her Son, perhaps, too, even her ascendant over him, that engaged hirn to ratify the choice, which, without consulting him, she had made of Lady Harriet; a choice, to which she was more led by my friend’s merit, than even by the family convenience, which, however, collaterally found its account in the match. I should, indeed, imagine it impossible for one of Lord soberton’s character for taste, not to be struck with Such transcendent worth as that of my friend’s, in wfiom everything, beauty, youth, fortune, and, above all, an irrosistible amiableness of character, • concur to Secure a profpect of happiness. 
It is now, indeed, that I cordially lament the bar which Lady lovell’s chimerical fears have 
thrown 
I : 
■ 1 : 

ii 
Clara Mavnwaring, 
thrown in my way, to my flying to Lady harriet’s, and to my endeavours at alleviating her affliction, by flncerely Sharing it. But, after what has past, for me to go to her mother’s house, is, by all the laws of procedure, stri6uy forbidden me: And indeed I have ever stnce my knowledge of Lady lovell’s injunction to her daughter not to see me, had the just delicacy to avoid putting her duty into conflict with her inclination, and have never met her but once, the day before Lord so berton’s arrival, at an aucfion of pictures, where my aunt casually carried me, and where we exchanged complaints of the perverseness of our fortune, and mutual assurances of the constancy of our friendship. She did not then mention her brother to me, in which she obliged me : and in her letters to me observes the same silence; on my part, I have not once made him an object of inquiry : Nor should I now mention him, but to express withal my pleasure to find that neither the incident of her brother’s fancy, nor the consequences upon it, had produced any diminution of Lady harriet’s regard for me, or any alteration of our Sentiments of mutual esteem. 
I have Sent her a letter of condoleance on the death of the Duchess, to which her answer breathes a melancholy that greatly afflicts me. There is in it I know not what air of diffidence and alarm, that I can attribute to nothing elfe but to too modest an opinion of herself, and an exquisite fenss bility. Perhaps, too, the Marquess is so thoroughly taken up with his grief, and is himself, on his recent loss, too much agitated by the Sentiments of nature, to pay attention enough to those of love. That passion, is, I fear, of all the passions, not the least unreasonable in its expectations. A little time must Soon now clear up everything. 
In 
to Mr, M E L L E F O N T. 
1 17 
In the meanwhile, dear Sister, I long impatiently to See you, and wisti I could prevail on our aunt here to come down to you with me; but of that, for many reasons, I despair. But surely there breathes not a worthier woman. What obligations have I not to Mr. Mellelont for his recommendation? He knows her, and that’s enough; that dispenses from all panegiric. 
Mrs. Proffer was here but yesterday, and has given me a packet for you, of a very good col ledfion of marcello’s composition. He is undoubtedly the Orpheui of church mufic. She has enclosed with it Mr. harris’s Hermes for Mr. melle font. I cannot say but I greatly esteem that woman; she never appears in her element but when she is doing a service, and yet always does it with such an air, as if she was grumbling over it. I am convinced, by what I see of her, that good-humour breeds fat; if foi cannot think she has a bad bargain of her’s, for everybody loves her. 
You must give me leave to throw in my mite, for I shall cram into her packet the Statut mater of Pergolefe, and the Miserere of des lands, which, though inferior by much to the other, is not however without its merit. The whole goes by the next coach, with a whole cargo of play things for the children, of which you will be so good as to make an equitable distribution. Yours, c. 
Clara Maynwaring. 

XIV ^ x*. 
LETTER XVII 
Mrs. Buckley to Mr. Mellefo nt 
Dear nepheivf 
Richmond. 
I Can hardly conceive that you can be without some curiosity about Lord Lovell, which, however, I should be unable to gratify, but for Mrs. 
Vil 
118 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
Villaret, who, as I have before, I think, mentioned to you,, had Some acquaintance with the family, which was rather interrupted than dropped. 
Upon the final rejefilion he received from me; in, clara’s name, he returned to town, and appeared extremely mortified and disconcerted, and went near neither Lady Lovell nor Lady Harriet; not would Scarce see any one but his old companion Golding, who was just returned to town and with whom he has, at length, quarrelled, on a cause that really does his lordship honour. Golding; it Seems, to ingratiate himself with him, was strongly urging him to Some afl of violence, for getting Clara into his posseftion, which Lord Lovell totally disapproved. In the heat of the difcuftion, Golding, very probably without weighing his expressions, or in the ignorance of their force, happened to drop something that Squinted towards a reproach to his Lordship, for not having a heart for such a mettled enterprise. Lord Lovell, in whom his own licentiousness had, at least, its bounds, being naturally of not the most enduring temper, and besides, already on the fret upon that fubjefit, took fire, as if Golding had accused him of paltroonery; and over heating himself with that notion, which, however, was not a just one, (for certainly the other had no such meaning,) came to violent words with him, and even to blows, of which he was afterwards heartily ashamed, as it might give the world room to say, he knew whom he was beating. Lord Lovell, by the bye, never wanted for courage, of which he has given unquestionable proofs. As for Golding he had no character to lose by this incident; a Negro needs not fear being blacker than he is. For Some little time he made the most abje6l fubmistions to be taken into favour again by his Lordship, who, however, held out; and who, besides declaring himself sorry for 
having 
to Mr, Melle font. 
no 
i 
Mm 
haying ever countenanced such a fellow, niade no secret of thc: cause oif the quarrel. Such is generally the end of that society among unequals, 
which is only founded on a community of vices and follies.. 
Golding, grown desperate by all this, has, by way of extenuating his own guilt, charged, in his turn, his Lprdfhip with having jio need to be so 
for that his honourable love to Clara 
M * > 
was all a pretence; and that even he had made the overture of it to Lady Lovell, with the worst designs. I really do not know how he Satisfied those to whom he told this story, but Satisfied it Seems, they, were of the truth of it 
Lady Lovell, who passionately loves this Son, and who was, So mortally averse against his marrying Clara, is with all her weaknesses,, a woman of strict morals,; upon hearing this, account, of the truth of which she was, it Seems, convinced, she had the candour to declare, that she could sooner forgive Lord lovell’s meanness in his courtship of a woman of inferior birth, than So abandoned a procedure, as that of preshng her'name into the Service of dishonour, and of designing her for his tool of feduffion; so that he was in thorough, disgrace with her. All this, combined with clara’s disdain of him, even on the footing of honourable love, had So overwhelmed him with shame. So crushed his vanity. So Sickened his gallantry, that he was not, likely soon to be in a humour, or in a capacity to projedit, with a very good grace, new conquests. 
His revenge on Golding being out of the question, by that fellow’s being notorioussy beneath all farther anirnadverfion, he Seems to have turned all his revenge against himself, as if one folly could not be repaired but by another. He is now all for the joys of the bottle. You may guess what a 
Set 
N 
% 
„. V 

''Pi 
i20 
Mrs. B u C K L E V 
Set of company hejs got into, with whom he can murder his time in midnight uproar and ghastly revels; a company only fit to invert the miracle at the feast of Canaan, and turn the brifkest Burgundy or Tokay into ditch water; to make pleasure stupid and gaiety detestable. There is great liveliness, to be sure, in being carried to bed, after a sitting of some hours, without hearing a syllable of wit, and great humour and taste in the fro licks of rakes, dull. Sober, and worse drunk In Such a course, however, is Lord Lovell now Seeking to drown reflection, and must soon destroy his health and intelle61; s, if he is not prevailed upon to stop himself in time in that infamousty pernicious career. 
Already Lady Lovell begins to relent, and to be in great pain for him, and, did not her pride Secretly oppose it, would perhaps own a wish that he had been in earnest in his addresses to a woman of honour, though ungraced with a coronet in her family, that should have Saved him from the confusion, “worse confounded, ” into which he is at present plunging himself. There is, however, one point of which it was with the utmost difficulty she was brought to the belief, that not only Clara had given her fon a flat refusal, but that her Ladyship might very Safely rely on her not retraft ing it; an assurance that gives her the less pleasure, for its being beyond her conception, and for its rather hurting her vanity of opinion, as to her son’s irresistible merit. To know him despised by Clara was To her almost as bad, as would have been the knowing him married to her. 
As for Lady Harriet, her Sisterly affeffion makes her Suffer greatly for him; she has laboured very Sincerely to bring about his reconciliation with Lady Lovell, and it is to be hoped, that by the exertion of her good sense and influence, she will 
bring 
\ 
Mr 
121 
bring her brother to a cooler sense of things, and to a greater refpefi for himself. 
Clara, in this point, very cordially fimpathifes with her, and' would, I believe Sacrifice to Lady harriet’s satisfaction, anything but her heart, which is independent of her. This I can Safely attest in her favour, that I never heard a fillable come from her in the style of triumph on this occasion, but many a sigh of a compassion that had nothing of insult in it. 
But enough, and too much of stiis at best disagreeable theme, of which I fancy we have got pretty well rid : in my next I shall have another matter of communication to you. Yours, 
Lucy Buckley. 
* 
LETTER XVIII 
Mrs. Buckley to Mr. Mellefont. 
Richmond. 
I Threatened you, in the close of my last, with a new fubjefl: I now keep my word, and proceed with pleafiire in the character of writer of an epistolary history, of which Clara is the heroine. 
She had been by Lady Proffer introduced to Mrs. Pierpoint, a Lady of great worth, who has a noble house on richmond green, and is passionately fond of music, to indulge her taste for which, she has fet apart a very commodious falopn for a musical assembly, by whom, under the dlreffion of a great master, there are concerts executed three times a week. The performers are chiefly Such Ladies as have pushed their talent in music beyond the degree of those common dillettantes^ who with their Small proficiency, and premature 
vol. II G pre. 
% 
122 
Mrs. Buckley 
pretensions, are fitter to torment than to please the ear. The two Miss willoughby’s, the one with her harpsichord, the other with her lute, riiight play with distin6tion among the first professors of the art; Clara, as you well know, has an admirable voice, with great judgement, and an inimitable grace; the rest of the band are not quite so excellent, but there are none of them that are not much above mediocrity. So that upon the whole they contribute to furnish a very agreeable entertainment, which is never continued a moment beyond that in which it ceases to be so. Mrs. Pierpoint does the honours of it with great elegance of taste, and without any affedfation, taking effedfual care that none but real good company, in the justest sense of that word, should be admitted, as she would no more open her doors to a worthless Duke, than to an indigent sharper. Everything is eondudfed there with the greatest ease, joined with the most perfedb decency. Without presuming to didlate to the taste of her company, her contempt of cards does not hinder her from indulging them to those who chiisp them, and whom the hot reducing to the necessity of sheer conversation, renders hiore indifferent to them than they possibly might be if they were not at hand. But all that can be called gaming is effedfually discountenanced. The refreshments provided are regulated by an attention to health, and to the season, and are of no very great expense to Mrs. Pierpoint, who gives the entertainment, being chiefly, coffee, tea, chocolate, biscuits, and the like. 
It is very Seldom, however, that Clara goes there, and never without Lady Prosser, whom she is always desirous of obliging, and with myself. Not that she does not greatly love music, or can have any objection to her exercifirig herself inht, in an assembly of which she is the adrniration 
and 

to Mr. M E L L E F O N T. 
123 
and delight; but I don’t know how it is, there is in her a natural difinclinalion to go into company, an invincible timidity, which Seems less to proceed from her not being used to it (which certainly is not the cafe, for she has seen a great deal,) than from an exquisite delicacy of fenssbility which makes her shrink from the approaches of any but of those with whom she is well or long acquainted. She appears so much born for domestic life, that she is out of her element in a public place, or iti mixed company. To those with whom she is familiar she lets herself loose with all the boundless freedom of innocent gaiety; but, among strangers, she carries somewhat of an air of reserve, but a reserve sofar from gloomy, sofar from re pulstve, that it rather serves us as a zest to that engaging sweetness of her’s which is in perfedi harmony with it. 
Lady Proffer and I then had got her one morning to Mrs, pierpoint’s, when there was no assembly, but only two or three ladies of her acquaintance, round the harpsichord in the mufic fa idon. 
Mrs. Pierpoint having received, the evening before, an Italian song, fet to music, which has a great vogue, and which I enclose you with this, desired Clara to favour her with the execution of it, by way f rehearsal against the next assembly. Clard complied without the least hesstation, and sitting down to the harpsichord, was singing it at sight, with her Usual ease and superiority of skill, when on a Sudden there 
entered into the room, a young Gentleman in it seems, expected by 
without being anounced, deep mourning, who was Mrs. Pierpoint. 
The attention of the company being absorbed by clara’s performance, he had the time to place himself behind her chair, unobserved by her, and 
G 2 for 
% 
124 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
for Some moments by the bye flanders, whose eye when he Saw fixed on him, he made a sign of in treaty not to dillurb the finger. 
In the meanwhile I, who had really never Seen him before, readily conjectured, from the air of familiarity and ease with which he treated Mrs. Pierpoint, that he was Some person not only of character, for her door was open to none elfe, but particularly esteemed by her; as then his eyes and ears were wholly taken up with Clara, it was easy for me to examine his person. 
With a very noble deportment and a stately presence, there was in his countenance an air of languor that was even pleasing, as it appeared less the impression of a grief, than of a temper So habitually turned to tenderness and humanity, that his face had moulded itself upon his lethe was tall and genteel, in short a very agreeable figure. 
No Sooner had Clara finished her Song, and received the applause which it was hardly poshble to deny her, in which the stranger emphatically joined, than Mrs. Pierpoint, taking him by the hand, presented him to those of the company who did not know him, under his title of the Marquess •of Sobertoru 
At this name Clara could not help starting with the emotion of an agreeable surprise, when the Marquess,, giving her the .time to say anything, bowing very low to her, entreated her pardon, both for Mrs. Pierpoint and .himself, having laid this Scene for a first interview, for which Lady harriet’s encomiums, both in her letters and verbally, had given him the most impatient curiosity;; that he heartily forgave Lady Harriet for her not having done her justice in her defeription. Since he saw that was impostible. 

to Mr, Mellefont. 
125 
\ 
Clara letting this compliment fall to the ground, with much more modesty than the taking it up' and dwelling upon it would have been, acquitted herself of the expression of civility on this occa sson with a cheerfulness, a frankness of air, which I had never before observed in her to a stranger, used as She was to be remarkably shy to any, especially at the first sight. Her eyes Seemed to glisten with the Smiles of liking and approbation. 
As for the Marquess, as I had all the coolness of a bystander, I could easily discern the impression that his view of Clara, as Ihe stood up to pay her respefits, made on him He looked profoundly struck, which, however, might be nothing more than the common effet of clara’s appearance; soon, however, encouraged by her engaging manner of receiving him, which had even Something cares ling in it, he recovered himself into rather more ease, and they presently Aid into a conversation, of which Lady Harriet being the Subject, chra was the less' reserved, and the more drawn on to speak with readiness and familiarity. Perhaps I refine too much, perhaps my partiality for Clara may seduce me, but I thought of the two it was not the Marquess that was the least embarrassed. soon the conversation growing general, and the time approaching for Separating, the Marquess, addressing himself to me. Said, he hoped he should have both our leaves to pay his respectful visits to Clara, which, if admitted, he Should the oftener avail himself of the permission, as he was come to stay for Some little time at Peterssiam, with his aunt Lady Clifford. 
As there could be no reason, on the terms he stood with Lady Harriet for declining Such a civility, Clara joined with me in assuring him, that 
we stiould confider it as an honour, and receive as a 
favour.. 
G 3 
No 
% 
126 
Airs. Buckley 
No Sooner was Clara returned home, than she iat down to write Lady Harriet a minute account of what had pasted, which she concluded with a stncere congratulation on her profpe£t of happiness, in a choice that did her taste so much honour. 
Lady harriet’s answer exprested great fatisfac uon at clara’s having Seen this Sovereign elect of her heart, and especially at her approbation of him, which, if it could not she Said, increase her love, at least confirmed her judgement, and gave to her pastion the authority of reason. Still there was in her letter a turn to the gently plaintive strain, lor the Marquess not having given her opportunity enough to employ herself personally in the alleviation of his grief, by Sincerely sharing it, and for his flying for consolation to anything but love. She concluded with these words: 
You might wonder, my dear Clara, that sensible as I ani of the power of your charms, I am not in the least touched with a jealousy, which from my never having felt it, I may venture to aver, is not inseparable from love; I say, you might wonder at this, if you did not know me and yourself. Incapable of so vain a thought as that of presuming on, my lord’s con stancy from my own personal merit, I please my“ “with the unlimited confidence I have in his ** charadier. I would disdain to owe his fidelity to the poor circumstance of his not feeing a woman more worthy of being beloved than myself. On the contrary, I wish him such trials. If he comes off victorious, the honour will be the greater to him, and the Security to me. If he does not, I may and shall undergo the most mortal affli^ion, but should disdain a postestion on so precarious a tenure, as that of a super eminence, to which I am clear I have no pre 
tentions. 
ic 
t€ 
CC 
CC 
<6 
€6 
f 

to Mr. M E L L E F O N T. 
127 
K 
tendons, or of that of a heart capable of sacrificing 
to a motive of change so easily presumable, 
and which often depends on the levity of fancy, 
the happiness of a woman, that should entirely 
** found it on the faith of his superiority to it.” 
Nothing more just, nothing more generous, 
than Lady harriet’s sentiments on this point; but 
the greatness of my regard for her makes me fear, 
that Sne has not enough distinguished between the 
cruel and too common acquiescence in a family 
arrangement of interest and convenience, and the 
clear fpirited pashon of love, such as she finds it 
in her own heart, and presumes it because she 
wishes it in Lord soberton’s, and because it would 
^ « 
perhaps have hurt her too much to entertain a doubtj that might have led her to an examination. Her sincerity of pashon will have blinded her to the coolness of his return. Not that I think Lord Soberton capable of insincerity to her it i with, himself that he will have been insincere, in his taking those sentiments of esteem for Lady Harriet, which it is not poshble to know her and to refuse to her, for love, or for Something very likely to become love. 
I have Seen and perused his letters to her, from the Spaw, where he was with the Duke his father, and wherever he introduces the word Love, I thought I could, more agreeably to the sense of the context, have Substituted Esteem. I have marked his procedure since his return; it has always appeared to me in the highest form of good breeding, but without anything of that eager ness and warmth, that charafterise a pashon, and less in the style of Sentiment than of ceremony, rerhaps I over refine, perhaps I may be mistaken, at least, I fi cerely wish I may be so. 
Mrs. Pierpoint, who is intimate with bis aunt, and has known him from his infancy, gave me, 
G 4 the 
♦» 
% 
128 
Mrs. Buckley 
the other day, his history, merely in the course of conversation, without my having led her into it by the way of inquiry, and purely from her own pleasure in Speaking of him. 
His education had proceeded in the commorr rote through School and college, without presenting anything extraordinary except his stngular application to his studies, which produced a prohci er.cy in them very uncommon for those of his rank, who are too often ruinousty indulged and even encouraged in a remisthefs, which, if ever years bring with them judgement, they are Sure to repent, vv^hen the loss of the most favourable time for learning of any kind is, generally Speaking, irreparable. What expectation can there be of an harvest where there has been no cultivation? The Spring of youth is naturally the season of improvement, and man knows no Second Spring. 
Upon finishing bjis studies, instead of being hurried away prematurely on that Silly wild goofe chase after accomplishment, called the yrand tourj in the manner it is commonly performed, he underwent at least a year’s preparation, not only by reading the very few good books of voyages, which' were Specially feleisted for him, but by being instrufited in the actual position of th Courts of Europe in general, and particularly of those he was intended to vistt, and in the cha radiers and viewi’s of the respective leading men in each. His desire was also excited to see and converse personally with all the eminent in arts and Sciences, to whom he was to carry introduqiory letters of recommendation. Such characters being of all the least likely to make any advances to him, or to throw themselves in his way; the lights and instructions, however, to be gathered from whom were incomparably a greater objet of curiosity than domes, porticos, paintings, sta 
O 
Mr, 
12pi 
toes, monuments, cabinets, or the like, that fb vulgarly Satisfy the sslly Superficial gap of travelling sight mongers; not that these need be wholly neglected; the just point is only to confider themi in a very Subordinate view.. 
On his travels, thenj. his taste thus previously formed was not only useful to himself but did honour to his country, by his Supporting the dignity of a British Nobleman, I mean Such as it was before the barely not total extinction of that character. Mr. Greville, who attended him as a kind of travelling council;, qualified by more years, and a greater experience to - advise. and direct his conduct, was himself a real Gentleman ofi the politest education, the greatest elevation of senti- -- and a perfect knowledge, of the world; Xo define himj by negatives, which will give at once an idea of the happinefsiof the choice procured for his Lordship,,, of thb wretchedness of that So frequently made for those of his rank,, he was not one of those Hottentots of literature, those uncivilised pedants, with nothing to recommend them but a few undigested Scraps of Latin and Greek, who themselves need a preceptor of manners, and who have so strikingly the air of a bear leading his cub a dance;. As little was he one of those pert, shallow.. led captains, who equipped with a Smattering; of murdered French, and with all the. scum of courtffutility,. imagine themselves the finest of fine Gentlemen, and consequentially enough to So false a conceit, run theperfonage, wisely entrusted to their charge, through a whole course of nonsense, of everything, _ in short that taste would fly from and disdain, a stupid circle of pandars, buona robas, opera singers, the canaglia virtuofa, mumping. Cicermes^ silly cicisheos, or foreign noblemen, more ignorant, if possible, than themselves: and when they return, what a boast 
G 5, to. 
% 
iiii 
130 
Mrs 
il 
'1 f! 
to have Seen the Pope, the Pre tender, and all the fine sights, with an emphasis that makes trifles more trifling. But no matter, they will, and the more is the pity, have seen Europe, and Europe them, ” as an old Knight Said to his Son. 
Lord Soberton having been happy enough to escape the disadvantage to him of either of these choices, and being pre instrudled in that art. So useful and so little known, of feeing with judicious eyes, proceeded on his travels, which he finished with great and just satisfaction to himself and friends, under the care of Mr. Greville, who, attending him in the charaq; er of companion, friend, and guardian, acquitted himself nobly of his charge. 
He returned home, fraught with useful points of knowledge, and especially, by comparison, penetrated with a reverence for the constitution of his native country, which he looked on as the fheet anchor that would alone enable it to weather the temporary detriment to it, from the wretched government under which he found it, without order, and without authority, and, what is worse yet, without deserving to have any : in a condition, in short, that made it no small merit, the not despairing of the commonwealth. 
So soon as he was arrived all parties made their application to him, not most certainly, for any good they expedfed from him, of which they had not the least conception, but for the ill that each of them apprehended from the weight which his acceshon would give to their opponents. Without honour enough to esteem merit in their enemies, they detest it in their friends, because they fear it everywhere. It was not, then, poltible for him to have less merit than the heads of the parties wished him to have for their service, which' is so exactly true, that you would have Sworn the competition for 
places 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
1.31 

ic 
QC 
places was carried on by an emulation of worth leltness. One who is now associated to the rank of ia Peer, has had the candour to attest this me lancholic truth, of worth being even a necessary exclusion. 
Perhaps, dear nephew, you may think this exagerated. Turn to his pamphlet, of which I Sent you, Some years ago, a copy, for the curiotity; it is entitled, A mode ft Apology for his con dubd"* You will find, page 15, these ever memorable words. 
\ 
“I cannot help recolle6ling to what numerous “inconveniences, not to say mischiefs, a nation is fubje^;, where the very nature and neceltity of public affairs, or of those who direct them, make ‘‘ it absolutely necessary to exclude the greatest, the “wlfest, and the best of men.” 
Yet what is this but in other terms imputing to a government the most shameful, the most execrable of all false necessities, that of a recourse to the Service of knaves and fools? 
In this condition it was that Lord Soberton, at his return, found his country,, much as he had left it, or rather growing every day worse and worse, its interest lying iiegle^led, like a house in chancery, between contending parties, and running to ruin So as to threaten Soon to be not worth to any the getting possestion.. He beheld, then, with pity and indignation, So vile a System as the current one, titles degraded, ribbons stained,, posts distionored by the dirty channel in which preferment to them generally ran, reversions ican daloussy anticipated, pensions out of the money of the public, for incapacity offervice;, or, worse yet, for notorious disservice to it; • while many of these infamous benefits were not even conferred by favour, or Spontaneous emanations from authority,, but insolently forced from it, the trophies^ of victorious 
% 
II 
13a 
Mrs. Buckley 
torious faction; in which cafe they had shockingly the air of the prises of a low dirty Scramble, or of goods Snatched out of a house on fire, by ruffians watching the hour of distress. 
With the Spirit, then, to prefer an inrolment in the book of state martyrs for Serving his country, to a place in the Court calendar for betraying it, the Marquess Spurned the applications of all parties; determined as he was to devote his whole power of utility to the real Service of the nation; disdaining the implicitness of being enlisted, where a man dares not call his vote his own, even in the most sacred of all cafes, that of the trust reposed in him by his country. 
With these ideas, you may easily think he would not be ministerially recommended to any borough, and though Sure of carrying one by his family interest, he looked on his exertion of that influence as a criminal prevarication against tl ose laws, which.so wisely prohibit to Peers, their intermeddling in elections, and which are So dan gerousty, not to say treasonably, tending to Suffer abolition, by disufe, connivance, or neglect. In vain did his father and friends press him to conquer that Scruple, which they even tried to turn to ridicule, by giving it the name of false heroics, in times when there was, no hope of effectually opposing the current, but by appearing to go with it: the Marquess to this inflexibly opposed for answer, That a man who was himself breaking the law in one point, could with a very ill grace oppose the breach of it in others, and that he would disdain to enter the house at a door he was determined, whenever he should have got in, to endeavour at condemning, or shutting up for over in future. 
Soon after a borough deputed to him, with an entreaty to do it the honour of representing it 
Lord 
to Mr. Mellefont. 

Cord Soberton, who was not at all the bubble of this invitation, and knew very well what it meant, did not think himself at liberty to refuse, though but a Seeming opportunity of being in a way to Serve the nation, but was withal determined to preserve an inviolable respedt for his own Savorite general maxim. That whoever buys his Seat will sell his country. He declared himself then, a candidate, but when it came to the push, though perhaps the kingdom cannot boast a Nobleman of a more truly generous Spirit, he would not Sacrifice Sixpence to bribery, diredi, or indirefit, in any of those stiapes which that Proteus takes to elude the danger of the grasp of Justice, little as that danger is, considering that her hands, on this occasion, appear taken up with being held before her eyes. But what was the consequence? His appearance in that charafiiter only Served to raise the price of the seat to young Turpin, who had stood against him, who, literally Speaking, was beneath the honour of being his footman, but who, in virtue of ten thousand pounds of that money, of which his father had plundered the public, being thrown away by him, in order to make a most villainous figure in Parliament, carried it, in the jockey jargon of the turf, hollow against his Lordstiip. On this failure, the Marquess Said he was only lorry, that with all his execration of corruption, he had been the cause of it in others; but that he much wondered at the absurdity of our laws, who punistied with death any wretched debafer of the lawful coin of the kingdom, while they had provided no adequate punistiment for an infinitely more atrocious crime, that of debasing the lawful fubjefifs of great Britain by corrupting them. “A kingdom (Lord Burleigh observed) could not “be rich while the coin was base he might have 
justly added, that while the fubje^s were soit 
Xould 
% 
V 
1 
I • 
( i 
t I 
i!:, 
’1' 
. I 
I ' 
11 I) 
I 
i ■ 
I 
L 
( t 
1; 
; t. 
I I ' 
I 
t I 
I i 
m 
Mrs. B U C K LAY 
* 
could not be strong. When the very foiintains of good government, on which the national welfare and Safety so capitally depend, are poisoned, what destructive evils must not flow from them? While the facility with which Corruption, by talking a thousand stiapes, eludes what little restraints there appear to be laid on it for form sake, only shows it, at once the more mean, for its jecourfe to disguises, and the more dang^^rous, fpr, the difficulty of guarding agaipst it. Adding, that to murder a Bfiton was, in the eye of Sound policy, a venial trespass compared to that of corrupting him out of his duty to the public, stnce it killed the freeborn fubject, while it left the villainous stave alive; for surely a bought voter is, in fact, no freer than a forced one, and certainly more infamous; left him to rot aboveground, a nuisance to his own conscience, and a pest to his country. In which plain, unexaggerated light, though a massacre of a multitude of Britons might carry in the sound of it Something more dreadful, it could not, in the sense, give a more .horrid idea than the pestilential vapour of corruption’s destroying the nation itself, and making of it a cadaverous mass, fit only, with its leaven of putrefaction, to engender and nourish Swarms of vermin; for surely it is not men that corruption breeds. 
To those who, on his thus missing two elections, expostulated with him, on, perhaps, an overstrain of rigour in him, in times that required a greater latitude of principle, his Lordship was thc; first to laugh at himself for acting as if he was very seriously looking on the House, as the Romans did on the fanctuary of Honour, to which they allowed no access but through the .temple of Virtue; but that, all jesting apart, he heartily adopted Sir Ben; 
; ‘‘ there was 
nothing 
jamin 
3 opinion. 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
35 
nothing in the world worth being a rascal for, ” and that, according to his fixed principle, there could not be a more mean, rascally aq:, than that of tempting others to break the laws of their country, in a concern essential to its very falyation: bessdes which, he had an unconquerable aversson for his resembling, in any point, the knaves of interest, or the fools of fastiion. 
That as to the first, whose motive for getting into the house, was to make a traffic of themselves, and of the greatest concerns of the nation, he had not words to express his horror for those infamous political fortune hunters, or adventurers, who had not a single ideaof representing their country, or any part of it, except that most contemptible part of it, their own dear Selves, which they commonly sold a most bitter bad bargain to the purchaser, as they cannot possibly fetch less than they are worth, their whole stock of merchantable ware, consisting generally in politics without knowledge, Speeches without eloquence, and votes without opinion; votes, the rage of selling which had infected all classes of the subjects, being as common at market, and their price current as well known as that of another staple commodity : that Germany traded in its Soldiers, Egypt in its Eunuchs, Circassia in its fine Women, Africa in its Negroes, and Great Britain in its Voters, which might not impossibly be the cause of its soon having no other trade. 
As to those trissers, whose pretty little lives dimple along, running to waste in their ssiallow current, and who mean absolutely nothing more by getting into the house, than a matter of course, with their fortunes to gratify thefilliest of all vanities, that of an attainment, in consequence of which they must make a poor, subaltern, contemptible figure; one would be tempted to forgive them the 
pur 


ir 
I ■ 
; I • 
f I' 
li' ‘ 
ii: 
: | : 
!■ •' i I ' 
I I I,. 
1) 
I i 
II 
! • : 
136 
Mri. Buckley 
putchafe of their seats in parliament, if they could at the same time purchase abilities to fill those seats or the Spirit to do their duty in them; instead of being the cyphers of parties, the tools f ministers, or the bubbles of falfe importance. Humanity would owe them Some pity, if that pity was not exhausted on the wretches who can look up to them, or on their country that Suffers by them. 
However, when the Marquess found he could not get a seat, upon his own principles he with great ease and great Scorn, renounced any thought of obtaining one by the pra^ice of the times,. shrugged up his shoulders, and left things to their course, which he was not the master of stopping. From an eminence on a bank he Saw the shallow dirty current roll away beneath him, carrying away with it the little trifling straw, fcruff, and bubbles on its Surface to the gulf of perdition: This he beheld with Sorrow and with pity, but Surely with no Sort of temptation to fling himself into the loathsome puddle. 
Thus far, dear nephew, byway of giving yom Some idea of the marquess’s political character; ini his private he has nothing of the acrimony of misanthropy, or of too Supercilious an intolerancy of fools; an indulgence to whom he looks upon to be Something in the nature of clemency to brutes.. When business, when connexions of family, when chance throws them in his way, it never costs him an effort to dissemble to them a Superiority, which might be plainful or offensive to them; for he never thinks of it himself, and consequently throws nothing into his air or manner, that may make them think of it. His never taking the^nead of the conversation, gives him the chafi^^ier of the company, and he instinctively lets himself down in unison,, Sometimes, it is 
not 

t Mr. Mellefont. 
137 
not very easy to do. So as to be low enough. those who displease him, he rarely condemns in any way, but that of stunning them, without letting them see that he stuns them. He is extremely reserved in the choice of his company, not from pride, but from taste. With a natural enmity to any distinction, that arises out of liu tie objefits, nothing Satisfies him but real greatness in anything. Small thinking he holds very bad, Small talk still worse, Small writing Surely not much better, but Small life contemptible to the last degree, and among those of his own rank, What could be more common than Seeing all these at once? His dread then of becoming himself bad company, made him keep as much as possible out of that which is So vulgarly and So impudently called good company, and which is only fit to contract the head, and to corrupt the heart. And no wonder, since among the greatest of them you meet with prejudices as pitiful, and passions as mean, as ainong the lowest of the mob, only with less nature, and more power of disguise. compassionis an honour to humanity, but it is a pain too; and the wrong heads, foul hands, and rotten hearts. So frequent to be met with in the present System of Society, giving him that kind of disgust which one commonly feels at the sight of blotches and ulcers, makes him the fonder of Solitude and recess. Who does not pity loathsome diseases, and yet who would chuse to live in an ho spital of incurables, or run the danger of their contagion? 
Yet, with all his Spirit of toleration of the follies of the world, he could not remark, without Some little resentment, that Scandalous indistinction between the worthy and the worthless, from which So many think it as cheap to be good for nothing as not, on much the principle that the 
vilest 

% 

L 
b‘ ■ 
I, 
t! ' 

till 
n: 
; t 
ol 
'I 
)i 
I ' 
13s 
Mrs. Buckley 
vilest mechanics will tell you that it is better to play for nothing than to work for nothing. Ignoble idiots, who never confider as indeed they never think, that merit is its own reward, independent of opinion, or of fortune, and confequenlly well worth all the pains of attainment, if it led to nothing more than to be with justice re fpediable in one’s own eyes. But, surely, when these poor devils give you their sublime delights, taverns, brothels, foppery of dress, dangling at a court, or a chocolate house, gaming tables, routs, horfe races, and the like, for objesis of envy, and proofs of taste, the absurdity of a beggar’s fluttering his rags as if they were finery, could not be more ridiculous. 
His Lordship, sensible that those who do not enough despise trifles, will certainly not have a passion for great things, very good naturedly, and very sincerely pities the futile occupations of those titled infe6ts that flutter about, with a pert vivacity, which adds fatigue to dullness. For my part, when I see them in that Sickly unmeaning whirl of frivolous diltipation, they remind me of the flies, who, on a mischievous boy’s plucking off their heads, move in Short, circular staggers, dragging for a while their bodies about, without point crview; and when their little lives are out, arc not one jot more immemorable. A fly or a fool the less in the world is no great damage. 
But there is one vice against which, I am told, his Lordship has declared immortal war, though now grown so universal as to have almost Swallowed up all the rest, the pitiful, low, dirty vice of avarice. A vice, with all its infamous littleness, big with the ruin of every nation in which it is not exploded with the Scorn and contempt it deserves; if but for its rendering unfashionable 
rliofe principles, the destruction of which must 
be 

Mr 
139 
be fatal to none more than those who are actually hard at work, to promote, and have nearly effectuated it, under the instigation of that execrable fiend. Alas! take the calendar of our leading men, peruse it, analife it with candour, and tremble for your country, to confider how few of them are exceptions to the general designation of them for staves to that ignoble pastion, equally defpicabie whether its issue be in tastelefs expense, or in sordid parcimony. But what a stiame! what a reproach to humankind is it, that many of those wretches Should make of their not wanting money a plea, not for declining the degrading wages of corruption, but to raise their price on the purchaser in proportion to their infamy for their not being above the Sale of themselves. Their noble reaibn amounts to nothing better than that the fatter the beast at market the more it fetches. Thence that callous insensibility to true honour, or even but to common justice, from which they receive the pay for worse than being only of no Service to their country, and rather for eating, literally Speaking, the black bread of treason;; sale of a vote, or the cooperating to carry through unnational measures being nothing less. Or is it poflihle hardly to name a more atrocious breach of trust; while those Soft, indolent triflers, who stand by and see the detriment, without interposing to hinder it, are but one degree less guilty, and liable, at least, to the charge of a mifprision of treason?? mischief they do not oppose, they in Some measure commit, and are at least as much aniwerable for the ill they do not hinder, as for the good they do not do. Pitiful charaisters! if but for being pandars to the avarice of others, who only despise them for their connivence; poor creatures, incapable of 
opening 
% 
r 
* 
140 
Mrs. Buckley 
r! 
i 
f I 
I; 
opening their eyes upon their own worthleffness: devoted to inutility, and content with being counted for nothing by the public, but especially by those who take the advantage of their tameness and ductility, to Seize all the best morsels for the feeding their own avarice, without giving them So much as the bones to pick. And this they Suffer! nay, think it life to Suffer! I adore their Serenity! but am rather Shocked at the impudence of their pretentions to dignity; yes, dignity, forsooth!! the circumstance of Such consummate worthleffnefs. 
It is, however, on the prevalence of this low tyranny of avarice, that Lord Soberton, who, as I have before observed, is himself the most generous of men, will hear of no modification or composition for the horrors of that villainous passion. The universality of it is sofar from" intimidating him, that it only redoubles the stern nefs of his indignation, which is barely tempered by the coolness of his contempt. He often,, it Seems, says, that if he had but half a dozen co adjutors, men of weight and authority, to assist him, and who Should be as much in earnest as himself, it would be no more than a party of pleasure to them, to go against the whole camp of Corruption, and force it in its innermost in trenchment: that it would be but a kind of diversion to rout regiments of lady birds and batail lons of butter flies. And why not? Who does not know that nothing enervates, nothing effeminates more than avarice; which has no entrance into any but souls as mean as the vice that inssaves them? But if those half a dozen determinate assistants required by his lordship are not to be found, what then? Why so much the worse for this country: it would in its ruin, have np right evervto its own pity, if the supposition of 
a possi 

to Mr. M E LL E F O K T. 
II 
a pofllbility to collefl So Small a number of men of real worth, on So noble an enterprise, should be, with justice, pronounced an utopian chimaera. 
Lord Soberton has, I am told a very liberal allowance from his father, besides an independent inheritance from a deceased rich aunt. This would enable him, as he does not live with his father, to keep a great house, with equipage and servants in proportion; but he has reduced his way of living, to the terms of the utmost simplicity. A Small neat house, two Servants, and a chariot, which he hardly ever uses, being, as he says, always ready to run away on foot out of it, for its cheating him of his exercise, form the principal part of his domestic expense, combined with that of his table, which he keeps constantly open to a few fele^l friends, whom he takes care not to poison any more than himself with those infernal ■made dishes, which he never sees, but, he thanks God, he is not cursed with a palate for them. His plan is to unite the most exquisite delicacy with the utmost Simplicity, qualities sofar from incompatible, that the first cannot exist without the last, which does, not, however, imply it, the inverse not holding good. Excellence in everything, in dress, in diet, in poetry, in eloquence, idepends on simplicity, yet simplicity alone does not; give it, choice is required, and for that there is 'in nature Such infinite variety, that taste needs be rat no loss for its exercise. 
. as to the Savings made by this System of iiife so inferior to his income, the purposes to •which he applies them abundantly defend him a gainst any suspicion of a mean regard for money in them; a regard, from which even some of our youug Noblemen are not exempt, and which must make them prodigies of infamy, being as "Unnatural to that season of life, as a hard frost 
to 

r 

so 
i: 
r.": 
■ 
V ’ 
C 
■; .!i 
In: 
V i 
'’ I 
L; i 
r I 
'I 
I. ». 
142 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
/ 
to the middle of Summer. The truth is, that he has, even to profuseness, indulged himself in the noble enjoyments of private aq: s of generossty, which would probably never have been known, but for the great delicacy and refinement of manner which he threw into them, and which defeated his designs, and even his injun6lion of Secrecy, by that irresistible, pleasure it gave the parties who received them, to mention them with bursts of gratitude. 
Another great outlet to his fortune is, his being a munificent patron to all literary merit, and, indeed, of all eminence in the arts and Sciences, the floristiing of which he looks upon to be a point of national illustration and prosperity. His house is filled with the best works of Britisti artists, especially painters and Sculptors. Not that, with his taste, and with his candour, he is not sensible, that they have not reached the degree of perfedfion to which Some foreigners have attained : but it is precisely for that very reason that he thinks himself the more obliged to contribute all that lies in his power to inspire them to attain it. Seeing not the least stiadow of a reason to imagine, that the British genius could not, with due encouragement, take as high a slight in any art as any other nation whatever, she is not at all afraid of pasting for the bubble of any afitual mediocrity in his countrymen, while it is to aid them to emerge out of it, and soar to perfection, that what it costs him in the preference of their performances to the however better ones of foreigners, is, in that view, a very unregrettable | Sacrifice of at best an object of vanity, to the virtue of a national Spirit. 
I should here think it Superfluous to dwell on the mention to you of what is So much in course, 
in 

to Mr, Mellefont. 
143 
in a character like Lord soberton’s; his constant and grateful friendship to Mr. Greville, of whose fortune he had taken liberal care, but who has lately received a great addition to it, from the death of a near relation; he is actually now in the country giving personally orders about building a house on his estate there. I find he is still his lordship’s principal if not only confident. 
With So much merit, however, you cannot well, dear nephew, be Surprised at the pastion, with which the Marquess, young and handsome as he is, has inspired Lady Harriet; the only Wonder would be, that it should not be as much on his fide as on her’s; for. Surely, there is no charm you can name that she has not. Nature, education, fortune, have all conspired to make her Such an objefit of, love, that reason herself must ap 
a paflxon for her. I do not here throw into the account the dutchefs’s having made such a point with her Son of this match, as I am aware of the aversion which love has against being laid under Such engagements. It is, perhaps, the only caiife why the marquess has not as yet, at least So far as it appears to me, done justice to Ladiy harriet’s merit, in an equal return of n. This is, I hope, to come. 
In the meanwhile 1 have been the more particular to you in his charafiter, not only for my wishing you to be well acquainted with it, ■but for its So nobly contrasting to the generality of his class of life, and as I had much rather dwell on what does honour to humanity, than on what so deplorably degrades it, as the common run of our degenerate Nobility. 
I am, yours, dec. 
Lucy Buckley. 
L E T 

144 
Lady Harriet 
LETTER XIX 
Harriet Lovell, o 4^^ Clara Mayn 
WARING. 
My ever dearfriend,, London. 
YOU may be Sure I have not of late pasted my time the most agreeably in the world, not having Seen the Marquess of Soberton these ten days. He had, it is true, at last visit, prepared me for the pain of this absence, by a plea of invincible necestity, of which he did not, indeed. Specify the particulars, but I have reason to think him wholly taken up with the management of certain affairs he has in charge from his father, which, it seems, do not allow him the leisure of a resort to town. But what yet hurts me more, is to find his Lordship still remain So affesled with his late loss, that it gives him an air of pensiveness, reserve, and chagreen, which, appears to keep all tenderer Sentiments of love at a distance. I do not wish him less the Son, but I should not be Sorry if he was more the lover. 
I should, however, in my uneasiness certainly have contrived a visit to Lady Clifford at Petersham, where, he now stays, but that I could not well go without Lady Lovell, who is detained at home, as well as in a great measure myself, by a very untoward accident. 
Lord Lovell was, about eight days ago, at a tavern, which he had never before used, with Some whom, by a profanation of terms, he calls friends, and Setting up till very late in the morning, the whole company was it seems, greatly over heated with wine when there arose, between Mr. Salway and my brother, a violent dispute, upon Some extremely frivolous point, I think it was about the colour of a race horfe, which one insisted was black, the 
other 
to Clara Maynwaring 
h5 
other bay. This difference, on So very a trifle, brought, nevertheless, on Such high words, that the rest of the company interposed, and the affair appeared to be amicably terminated; on Mr. sal way’s Side it certainly was. But my brother whether the more piqued for his having been the more in the wrong, which, I am told, he unquestionably was, on the parting of the company, staid behind in the room, giving Mr. Salway, by a pull on the steeve, an intimation that he had Something to Say to him. The rest of the Gentlemen, in much the same plight of intoxication, had not minded this gesture of my brother’s, and went out without dreaming of the consequences. Mr. Salway staid, and Lord Lovell instantly Ihutting to the door, compelled him, against his every protestation and entreaty, to draw his Sword, which at length he did, purely in his own defence; and endeavoured, as much as he could, consistently with his own Safety, to avoid doing my brother any mischief; till receiving from his mad fury, a wound in his sword arm, and dreading still worse, he ran him through the body, misting, as it has happened, the vital parts. My brother falling, and the doors being burst open by the waiters, Mr. Salway had the generosity not to leave him, but, at the hazard of his own loss of liberty, to stay by and take care of him. Accordingly, a proper carriage was instantly provided, when Mr. Salway, who was but a new and superficial acquaintance of my brother’s introduced as a bottle companion, not so much as knowing where he lived, but on a gross guess that it might be .at his mother’s gave directions for his being carried thither, he himself being determined, as he actually did, to Surrender himself to any demand of justice. 
It was, then, about four in the morning that my 
vol. II H poor 


U 
145 
L ady Harriet 
f ■ 
1 I 
{ I 
poor brother was brought home, speecbless, motionless, to our house, which was, on this occasion, knocked up; and while the chairmen were Setting him down, with as much gentleness as could be, in the hall. Lady Lovell, alarmed with the noise, came down, and found her Son pale, dead, in all appearance, and weltering in his own blood. What a light for the tenderest of mothers! It flung her instantly into fits. The Servants did not wait for her recovery out of them ito send for two surgeons, both of whom came, and having examined the wound, declared that it had only gone through the fleshy part of the breast near the arrn pit, and they would answer with their lives there was no danger but from the loss of blood, or a fever Supervening on so bad a habit of body as they apprehended in his Lordship, from his inflammatory way of living. By this time Lord Lovell had recovered his senses, and the first use he made of them was totally to clear Mr. Salway, Vvsho he hoped had received no hurt, taking all the blame on himself, as the aggrestbr, I say nothing to you of my sensations on this occasion, you will easily conceive them. 
, Meanwhile our .steward did a very sensible thing: considering the pain which the publication of this incident would give to all parties, he sent round to the editors of the news papers to have if fupprested. 
As for Lord Lovell, he had lost a great deal of blood, and the fever, which the surgeons had feared, actually did come on, and with a violence that manifested great danger 
Lady Lovell hardly ever stirred from his bedside, and constantly watched him herself. Now it was that she began to refleq: with grief and confusion, on the fatal epoch of that course of riots and dishpation, which had brought him into his 
present 
to Clara Maynwaring. 
147 
present condition; an epoch, which Ihe very rightly connefited with the termination of his pretentions to you, on your rejc(5tion of his fuit, which, whether that fuit was honourable or not, had wounded at least his vanity, if not his love, to such a degree, as drove him to that miserable recourse. 
But this was terribly confirmed to her by his frequently invoking the name of Clara in his delirium, entreating your pardon, confesting his wrong, and, at whiles, outrageousty reproaching you for your barbarity, your disdain, and the like. 
The effect this had on Lady Lovell would be unconceivable, but for one just reflection. Her strong aversion to Lord lovell’s being what Ihe would call mis allied, was purely the Suggestion of opinion, but the Saving her fon’s life was a didlate of nature, over the Sentiments of which fashion has very little empire. 
There was nothing she had more ardently desired, than to see him married according to her System of quality matches; she had, since your reducing him to despair of you, proposed to him lady Catharine Beaumont, who is very far from disagreeable, and has rather a good fortune for an earl’s younger daughter; would not hearken to it; and, 
I Sincerely believe, that if he glimpse of an opening to renew' with you, he would with all his fierce declarations against the nuptial state, have, on your acceptance of him, been very glad to “Benedick” it. Of this I am Sure, he has very heartily repented the ridiculous ideas that had led him into those impertinences to Mrs. Buckley and to you. 
Lady Lovell, on her part, is touched to the soul with the recolledfion of the injuriotisnefs of her, behaviour to you, and indeed has long Seen you 
Ha in 
but 
brother 
my 
to do him justice, had Seen the least 

148 
Lady Harriet 
; I 
’ I 1 
I I. 
; 
I 
P ■ 
; j 
1 :. 
(( ' 
• I! 
\ * 
in a light worthier of you, worthier of herself, while nothing but false Shame, the natural istue of false pride, has hindered her from asking your pardon in form; mine she has actually condescended to do, and gives me great credit for my choice of so ef tlmable a friend. I do not, however, tell you, that the danger of my brother had not Some share in this relenting of her’s. Her apprehensions for his life, in which I verily believe her own is wrapped up, and her fears of his relapssng, if he Should recover, into the same course, have greatly turned her thoughts to a wish of what she once so much dreaded. Not content with Soothing him, and humouring his bent, which, whether he is in his delirium, or out of it, she observes strong towards you, by hints, and ambiguous assurances of a willingness to comply with anything that would make him happy; for, if the declaration had been more dire A he woiiid probably shave ‘fufpeefed it of dessgn; not content, I say, .with this, .she has seriously, in the .way of ashing my advice, sounded me about any hopes there might he entertained of your accept .ing her., advances to you. 
She was already in these difpositions, when a fit .more violent than any of the preceding ones, and attended with his usual ravings on you, for your name has sheen constantly repeated in them, has so renewed her dread of the worst to him, especially as the physicians theirfelves appear very diffident of the issue, that she begged of me to write to you an assurance of her Sentiments of the utmost regard, and desire of making you every reparation in her power for what had passed. 
My brother’s fit went off Sooner than any before had done, and a profound steep Succeeding, at his awaking there appeared a visible alteration for the better, the Physicians gave us the greatest hopes of him, and the Surgeons, on visiting the 
dressings. 
to Clara Maynwaring. 
149 
dressings, confirmed their opinion of the danger being humanly Speaking, well over. 
Lady Lovell, overjoyed at this, was So far from retrafiling her intentions, that she desired me, afresh to apply to you, adding, that ssie would herself write to you to the same purpose. 
Here, my worthy girl, you have the fatisfa£ition’os having, without your deigning to give yourself any the least trouble about it, obtained a double victory, over my brother’s folly, and my mother’s pride. She Sincerely lays it at' your feet, and, I dare swear, you are much too generous not to forgive an offence to you, that was more the ef feo; of their weakness, than of any badness of heart. The fastiionable way of thinking of the times, had, doubtless, too much share in the Several errors of both; From refpefl, I refrain from dwelling on my mother’s foible; but, from the first, I ever thought my brother was taking away with you that would never carry him to any end but disappointment and confusion. To obtain your love, he ought to have begun with laying hiriifelf out to win your esteem, wshich^ he was not very likely to do by showing that he had none for you. But I heartily wish you would think he has been Severely enough punished, and Sacrifice something of your justice to a mother’s tenderness, and to your friendship for a lister, who has ever passionately desired to see the tie of it drawn ctofer by Such an alliance, I know you too well to urge it to you on any Such motive of advantages as the world would annex to such an offer; the most that I could hope would be youf forgiving those advantages to us, sure that you are more like to confider them as objeflions, than as inducements to your yielding to our entreaties, call them our Supplications if you will. 
In all events, it is a great relief to me, to think 
H 3 that 
1 I 
i; 
, I 
t I 
; » 
« 
II! 
ji 
[ 
t' ■ ■ 
I; 
• I » 
: li 
i 
I 
i 
r 
\ 
50 
Lady Lovell 
that Lady Lovell repents and repairs, at length? Iier wrongs to you, as far as it is in her power You cannot conceive the pain which her injurious and unprovoked treatment of you gave me, nor do I think the atonement she now makes less than what you deserve. Of your forgiveness I have not the least doubt, my only fear is, that you will not accept the offer that accompanies the entreaty of it. 
My best, my sincerest respects to the worthymrs. Buckley. What is it she might not command irom me for a retaining fee, to be our advocate with you in this cause;; cause of honour, of compassion, of love, and of friendsmp? I have the more hopes of it, for her having been offended; as I have Such an opinion of her Spirit, that she villi flatter myself, look on the favour she will do us as the noblest way of showing how little she deserved her share in the indignity. Yours, c. 
Harriet Lovell. 
LETTER XX 
Lady LOVELL to Miss Clara Maynwaring. 
Dear Miss, London. 
•> 
Am very fensible of my having been much in the wrong to you and to Mrs. Buckley. My ashing you both pardon for it is but a duty in course, and I acquit myself of it with great pleasure. But there is more yet; I owe you a more essential reparation, both for my Son and Self. This will, with great propriety, arise from the motive itself of the injury. The false light in which I then saw things has given way to juster Sentiments: I am very Sincerely the convert of your virtues. The prejudices which made me blind to so much worth, 
are 

to Clara Maynwaring. 151 
are totally dissipated, and you have not only my consent, but my wish, that your acceptance of Lord Lovell may be the feal of your forgiveness. 
your’s, c. Arabella lovell, 

LETTER XXL 
Miss Clara' Maynwaring to Lady Lovell, 
Richmond. 
My Lady 
v/hicli 
N answer to your I, adysnip’s letter, breathes the truest spirit of nobility, in the disdain it implies of leaving any cause of complaint to fubsist, I have the honour to assure you, that both Mrs. Buckley and myself are extremely penetrated with your condescension, and have not So much as the stiadow left of a disagreeable remembrance of anything that has passed, with respect to your Ladyship or to Lord Lovell. 
I have, then, to entreat of your Ladyship, I will not say the favour, but the justice, to believe that nothing of that kind has any share in my declining, with all humility, with all gratitude, the great and unmerited honour proposed to me, with so much goodness, with So much condefensson, in the conclusion of your letter. My true and Sole reason is, that I am perfectly certain of its not being in my power to make your Son happy, and I leave yourself to judge, whether, under such a conviction, it would not be a base, ungrateful return from me, for such a proof of your good opinion, were I to take so unfair an advantage of it. In every other point but that, for which I may, indeed, deserve your pity, but never your blame, you may command me without reserve, as I am, with the most heartfelt gratitude, and the most profound refpe<5l. Your ladship’s, c. 
Clara mayny/aring. 
L E TH 
4 
% 

TV- -- 
: <! 
M ' ' 
1 i; 
11 
I i 
I; 
1. 
I I 
’ I ' • 
CI : 
: C : 
I; I ■ 
III : > 
'I • 
i ■; ' 
I C : 
I I 
! t i ' 
1 
I i 
I 
! r 
i i 
; t t 
II 
! I 
i 
I 
I ' 
1 I 
I { 
I 1 I 
t 
I 
r: 
i 
2 I 
K 
I 
Clara Mayn waring 
LETTER XXII 
Miss Clara Maynwaring to Lady Harriet 
Lovell. 
Dear Lady Harriet, Richmond. 
Enclose you, under cover and a flying Seal, my answer to your good mother, but wish you, before you give it a perusal, to read this I am now 
V 
writing to you. 
It was not without much pain and concern, that I observed the disaster besallen to Lord Lovell, and am very happy that you give me room to hope that he is now out of danger. 
I am withal greatly edified at Lady lovell’s at once noble and tender procedure towards me and Mrs. Buckley, while nothing hardly could more Severely affli^ me than the impossibility of my availing myself of the occasion that Seems to offer So fair for strengthening, if that were needful, our ties of friendship with those of affinity. 
I flatter myself, that you know me too well to think me capable of grimace, of art, and less yet Surely of insolence, or ill nature. But especially you would cruelly wrong me if you did not believe me ready to make the greatest Sacrifices to my regard for you. In the present point, my situation is really distressful. Your friendship induces you to wish me So great a good as an alliance to you, for I leave the other advantages out of the question, and I am forced to appear, in the declining it, ungrateful, while I am only adhering to an inviolable principle with me, which opposes to your kind intentions towards me, an invincibles bar. 
How often have you and I Settled the point, that there was not only great weakness, but great baseness, in those of either Sex. giving their content to marry, where that content had not the Sanction of inclination! It is cruelty to 
one 
to Lady Harriet. 153 
oneself, it is injustice to the person accepted. Where there is a sincerity of love on one Side, and nothing but a regard for convenience' on the other, the one in this last cafe, who yields to a union on such different motives, gives one no idea but that of a mercenary life. You may say that love may come afterwards; as I know nothing of the nature of love, but believe it a re fpe6table passion, from such characters as I myself know and see made happy by it, I cannov say to the contrary of such a fupposstion; but this I know, speaking only for myself, I should not care to run The risk of it, or expecl a hap -- pinefs, any hopes of which T should have begun with forfeiting by the commission of at once meanness and an injustice. 
I should ■ also be the more culpable for my utter disregard '* to those. tyrants of opiniouj titular .’ distinctions; and matter of interests But allowing to them even much more weight than ever ** their intrinsic worth can'deferve, I' have no conception of their rout balancing, especially in our " sex, that protestatioiif made by. an undepraved i heart, in its ssmplicity of nature; against such a Sacrifice of V liberty, of contentment; of delicacy,. and, let me justly add, even of modesty, to an' union unauthorised by inclination. i rdo not by this mean that inclination alone suffices, but that r it is andndifpenfable essential,, and that the whole, ceremonial' without it is an absolute profanation. Only think; dear Lady Harriet, of the horror, and, perhaps, the moral impossibility ’ of honouring; ^ and.obeying, where the loving is not,, in one’s power. The heart is an arbitrary monarch, independent of our Reason, though never,, unless through weakness, in opposition to it, and though' it hardly ever alks leave of it, for its. love, its aversionsj or its indifference. Pethapj..^ 
H. 5 - itvx 
I 
I ' 
I o [ 
» J 
• * r 
i t < 
b: 
: 
‘ I ' 
IM 
''Ml 
11 i 
1 I ' 
!i: 
: t ' 
I. 
: •! 
I ' I 
H!' 
M! ' 
i! 
i I 
I. I 

ii: : 
, i 
I : f ' '! 
); t 
■ III : 
if! 
CM 
I; I, i I r I 
J f 
ilii 11, 
LI 
( I 
i I 
> ► * 
O : I 
, - I 
M ’ M! i f : 
} t 
h 
il 
I I 
I I 
!, 
154 
Clara Maynwaring 
it would be better if it was otherwise, but we must take nature as we find her, and, in my poor ppinion, there is rarely anything abstituted to her with advantage. In general, the Law of the heart is the Law of reason; at least, I am perfe6t ly Sure, it is So, in the cafe of refusing to marry without inclination, the want of which is never imputable, since it is always involuntary; our will being no more at our command than our 
faith. 
There is also in this difpensation of nature Something very just, there is nothing in a refusal that detra6ls from the merit of the person refused, any more than an acceptance adds to it. This is mpst clearly, most equitably Solved by that arbitrariness of the will. Oiherwife the preference given to one over a number of others would be injurious to them; but that is never the cafe. Vanity indeed may take offence at it, but when was vanity ever just? To bring this home to the point, may I, dear Lady Harriet, rely e bough on your friendstiip for your acquitting me in your own heart of any unkindness in my declining what now appears offered to me, or of any the least thought of dlfrefpeo; to your brother, who stands restored, in full right to my re guard for him, if but on your account? But as that my regard ■ is quite of a different nature from love, and never can, i am intimately persuaded, resolve into it; judge yourself whether it stands with my Sincere affection for you, or even with common gratitude to Lord Lovell, for me to do him such an injury as to avail myself of his blind partiality for me, to render myself his partner in everything but love, which is the great essential. Do you imagine, that my want of it could escape his discernment, or when discerned not mortally wound his delicacy? No, I had rather, than commit 
c' 
Clara Maynwaring, c. 
j55 
mit Such a perfidy to you, to him, to your family, that he should think and say of me, that since I declined him, I did not deserve him. 
In this apology, however, my ever dear friend, my ardent desire of your fair construction has drawn me into almost a dissertation in form, upon a cafe which I should imagine common enough, for me to have nothing new to say on it. I recommend myself with full confidence to your candour, and especially to your friendship, in the spirit of which your desire to find me not unworthy of it, will supply any deficiency of my justification. 
Mrs. Buckley presents her most tender refpe^s to you, and assures you of a thorough oblivion of any passed disgust at your Koufe. You did her but justice in taking it for granted, that she was incapable of letting any resentment overcome her generosity. She Sincerely loves and esteems you, and was rather inclining to that fide which your great friendship for me has engaged you to espouse, till her examination of my reasons, and the weighing my opposition of sentiments, fet her right in. her opinion of my procedure. Yours, c. 
Clara Maynwaring.. 
LETTER XIII 
Lady Harriet Lovell to Miss Claras 
Maynwaring. 
My ineomparalle friends 
my life depended on ascertaining which most' prevailed in me, affliction for the refusal contained in your letter, or admiration of that dignity of your spirit, which does honour to our Sex, I could not decide the dispute., 
B save. 

TI 
11 
.1 
f t ‘ 
! 1 
: ( 
I 
»; 
if 
!f 
. \ 

Lady H A R RI E T 
I gave your letter to Lady Lovell, wbose motiorrs I watched while ssie was perussng it. They might be, and I rather believe they were, at first, those of a pride not a little hurt by what I am hire she did not expel, your declining her offer. But this sensation Soon fubsided into the consideration of that modest unnoffenfive turn you gave to your non acceptance. If she felt the force, she felt the justice of it too; and I am persuaded is sincerely Sorry for her former treatment of you, which your forgiving her, is but a reason the more for her not forgiving herfetf. You have really made her feel that there is a nobility of souls infinitely Superior to that of blood, and of which she had not before so much as a conception. But as none are more apt to admire an aft of fublim* virtue than those who have laughed at it in theory on judging it un reducible to practice. Lady Lovell unaffeftedly acknowledges your great worth, while, I can assure you, no remains of her former notions of mif alliance, interfere to lessen her present vexation at losing the hopes of so desirable a match for her Son. Her fears for him are now renewed, not for his iflnefs, the danger of which may be pronounced pretty well over, but. for what course he will take on his recovery. She has not yet communicated to him your answer, though she only waits a favourable moment for it, as he constantly persecutes both her and me to interpose with you in his favour, alas 1 in vain. I am really myself in great pain for how he will take it. 
I was going on, but was obliged to drop my pen, on Lord soberton’s coming in. He has kept me a good two hours, chiefly talking of you. He was that moment come from my brother’s apartment, whom he was greatly pleased to see in so fair a way. As I knew Lord lovell’s passion for you had ben no Secret, I thought it no indiscretion to 
com 
j' t 
■ I. 

to Clara Maynwaring. 
•157 
communicate your letter to him. It was not approbation he gave to your procedure; no, it was a rapture of applause. He made me repeat all the particulars, many of which he had often heard me mention before, of everything that had passed between Lady Lovell, Lord Lovell, and you: and all of them appeared to me to make upon him an impression of novelty and of pleasure. In short, he admires you So much, that I dare hope you will have no scruple against my taking him into partnership of your friendship, the most precious of all my present possessions. 
My refpefits to Mrs. Buckley, they are always in course, for they are always in my heart, expressed pr not expressed. Yours, 
Harriet Lovell. 

^ O 
LETTER XXIV e^r/'lovell to Miss Clara Maynwaring. 
Mifsy London, 
IT is with a hand trembling, and Scarce yet recovered enough to hold a pen, that my impatience to lay my sentiments before you, urges me to the giving you this trouble. 
Lady Lovell communicated to me this morning the answer which you had made to her instances on my behalf. This, conssdering the pain which she might very justly conclude it would occasion to me, could not, in my present condition, have been extorted from her by less than the expression to her of my fears, that she had been only aiming at tranquillizing me with the false hopes, not only of her consent, but of her interesting herself for my happiness, in the reparation which she really 
owed 
liu 
I ( 
'!st, ■ t ■ 1. 
: 'i;; im ^ 
• 'll 
i i ' 
K’' 
II 
11 
■I 
11 
'h 
• 11 k. 
I ■ 
II • 
: I ' 
.» * 
I I 
i : 
t 
I! 
t: 
t •. \ ( 
I I 
!■ i 
ii 11 
II i 
1. 
158 Lord Lovell 
owed you. I find I wronged her, and that the stroke of death to all my hopes, to all my wishes, comes from yourself. 
There has been a time, when Such a blow would have deeply hurt my vanity; but that weakness having been long driven out of existence, long extinguished by you, I had no sensibility left, but for the cruel disappointment to my love; that love, which has been but the stronger for all my struggles to shake myself loose of it. I sought in vain to drown it in a course of distipation; for still it kept fast hold of me, and by its disdain of submitting to the force of my vices and follies, proved to me that it was a virtue. It is, angelic Clara, to you that I am indebted for the discovery of my having such a thing as a heart; it lay dead and buried to me in my breast, under a heap of rubbish, till you awakened it to life, by the double wound of love and despair. You have opened to me a new world within me, and given me a view of a greater manner of existence. Fool that I was to imagine, that one of your incomparable merit was to be won by a total want of any! I shall, however, strike this advantage out of this overwhelming misfortune, or rather out of the just sense of the demerit to which I owe it, that it will be henceforward a perpetual goad, a noble incentive to me, to render myself less unworthy of you, and to lessen the distance that your Superiority over me places between us. My future life shall be one continued endeavour to repair the errors of the past, and to retrieve the time I have lost, together with myself in wretched nonsense and frivolous delights. 
I hope the bottom of my heart is not desperately bad, though the surface of it has belonged to every folly that fashion could authorise, or depravity of taste adopt. It was reserved for a love, which I 
must 

to Clara Maynwaring. 
159 
must not call wholly disastrous, since it has been productive to me of So desirable an effect, to make me fensible of the dignity of my being, and to rescue me out of the ignoble career, in which I was running to waste. / 
Your refusal, and the motive of it, which I must suppose, though you Spare me the mention of it, have recalled me to myself, or rather to my duty to myself. 
I shall not, then, quite in vain have dared to love you, since my future virtues will be your gift, and the restoration of me to the paths of honour your work. Yes I heavenly Clara, I am Sincerely your convert; nor is the cure of a coxcomb Surely among the least of miracles. You have opened my eyes for ever on my past worth leffness, and made me Salutarily ridiculous to myself. Nor needs the suddenness of my conversion render its duration fufpefiled : I am abundantly defended from all fear of a relapse, by the clearest convidfion of the incomparably greater joys to be found in that state of grace with myself, into which I am now entering, than in the reduction to practice of the utmost riots of a Seduced imagination. Not yet quite recovered of my illness, and even amidst the horrors of my despair of you, I have felt more Solid, more exquisite delight in barely the thought f getting into a way less unworthy of myself than ever was realised to me in the a^ual gratification of silly vanity and false pleasure. 
Such, then, is my deep, my heartfelt obligation to you. Nor will I presume to hope your friendship, (for I must not mention the word love on a line with that of hope) till my condudf shall have Satisfied you of my being less undeserving of your favourable opinion, than I now Severely, but Serviceably feel and confess myself. 
In the meanwhile, my purest refpedis, my best 
wishes 
1 

io 
he Marquess oj Soberton 
wishes attend for ever the divine Clara, to whom I remain, ssncerely and unalterably, 
the most obliged, devoted, 
and faithful humble Servant, 
Lovell. 

<>	*7^ tE*	♦E* <•>




vtv> 
LETTER XXV 
Marquess of Soberton to Lancelot Greville, ejq'j at, in Glouceferfbire. 
My e’ver honoured Friend 
Peterjham. 
Your last contained a tender reproach, which I am Sorry to say I too justly deserved, for my being in arrears to you, the answer of two Letters. You are very sensible this is a failure of which I am very Seldom culpable, as I can hardly conceive a greater impertinence than a negle<st of pun6filioufnefs in this duty, which may so properly be placed among the frnall morals, that are nevertheless of such great account in civil life. The not answering a Superior must be a stlly madness; an equal, an unpardonable impolitenefs; .shut an inferior, the height of ignoble insolence and rank brutality. Yet we are not always to. condemn in a hurry, for fear of having our judgement to reverse. Do you remember what a pallion Dr. Ellington was in, at his not receiving, an answer from Lord Chipley to a letter, in which he was doing him an essential Service, till I quieted him, by telling him, that I believed the poor man could net read, but was very fare he could not write. I am, however, sofar happy, that I can depend on your having made the. most, fair construftion ol my Silence; perhaps a fairer one than I deserve; for,, not to dissemble with you, I have had Some. Small repugnance 
II 

to L Greville, Efq’, 
ii 
nance to write to you, from a confciousnefs of having something to say, which I could not well, without a violation of friendly confidence, suppress, and of which I can clearly anticipate your disapprobation, since I am actually Suffering under my own. 
I have received a letter from my father at Spaw, by which it is plain he has not yet recovered the blow given him by our common, Severe, and un expedled loss of my dear mother, upon which he has given me Some orders, relative to his affairs, that greatly confine me. He has especially forbid my going to him, as he proposes soon to return to Britain, but means to take so great a circumflex, as his intended trial of the waters of Barege may require. I do not find that those of Spaw have touched the bottom of his disorder, though the exercise of the journey, and the regimen that goes with those waters, had at first a temporary appearance of alleviating his complaints. 
As to your recommendation of Mr. mowbray’’s Suit for a pension, you could not, for the injustice you did me, in construing too rigorously my general declaration against all pensions, make me a more agreeable reparation, than by throwing in my way this opportunity of making just distinctions. 
I have, it is true, an invincible horror against those pensions which are obtained from the Court, as tacit recompenses for the Sacrifices of nation interest, or as the bribes of a vile acquiescence where opposition is a duty; in either of these cafes, the accepters may justly be Said, to eat the 
black bread of treason, sopped in the kennels of corruption. 
Nor, indeed, have I a much better opinion of those genteel Paupers cast on the charity of their 
country, 
i62 
f: ‘ 
I! ■ II ■ 
11. 
: ( ■ i: : 
! I 
i, 
i t 
i I 
I I, 
( I; 
.'; i 
^ ^ i 
■ ^ ’ 
I 
■ \ I 
■ i •: 
f ' 
II 
> I! 
• I * 
! '! 
J 
11 
! I I 
Ml; 
: ' ' ';. I 
< ’ f i 
I • : ‘ 
!i; i 
’ I 
;! I 
: 1 
I! 
! I 
: i!; 
i : \ 
! » i 
i ( ‘ 
1 I I 
*; I ' 1 : 
f 
\) ' 
: 
I '! 
: » 
. I 
:; 
{! 
The Marquess of Soberton. 
\; j; 
country, without any the least title to it, and with a much worse grace than the vulgar poor are put into a workhouse, where they become necessarily a rent charge on the providence of a parish. For these Splendid beggars in all the triumph of worthlesshess and idleness, to roll about in chariots, to strut in embroidery, or to dazzle you with an offenssve glare of plate on their fide boards, is such an insult on that nation, from whom they do nothing to deserve it, unless an implicitly inssaved vote be a merit, as that nation "well deserves which can or will endure 
ih 
V 
But there is another kind of penssons, for which I want words to express my Scorn and indignation; penssons, extorted by a pretence to patriotism, forsooth!! nauseous stale resource of disappointed ambition, or of fortune hunting imposture : when Such as on the strength of an influence, which they could never hav obtained by great talents or by real virtues, have been enabled to make their own terms with a weak ill advifed Court, and render the Crown itself tributary to their powers of false patriotism, false politics, false eloquence, false ‘‘ everything.” 
Nor do I think those others quite blameless, who, when their country appears like a bare carcase, devoured to the bone by the state vultures, not to mention the vermin ingendered in the putrescent mass, can So meanly, not to say worse, stipulate for the Scandalous fuperlucration of penssons and reverssons, as conssderations for their most gracious acceptance of great places going a begging, though that portentous confusion and niquity of the times, which deters or difgusts men of character from intermeddling with the state. In this, these are, I confess, very wrong; for it is then they are the most necessary; then is the time for every man to stand to his arms, and 
run 
1 I 
!! r k 
tolj. Greville, Efqy 
163 
run to the breach, not to be defaulters to their country at its greatest need. But their aid to be valuable, or indeed effectual, should not be mercenary. As to those who insist on money or lucrative considerations for taking their refusals, I leave you, or any man of sense or honour, to judge, what sort of service can or ought to be expected from personages capable of so infamousty factious an extortion, such an unconstitutional fubje6ling to the rack rent of avarice and insolence that country of theirs, which is, it Seems, of no more worth to them, than what they can sell it for, or Squeeze out of it. Of this, however, I am certain, that if this sordid, abje(£l, family fpirit does not soon meet with an effectual check from 
the powers of it will entirely with it every 
the constitution, properly exerted, swallow up the public Spirit, and hope of national Salvation. 
But as to the pensions given for real service to the nation, I can hardly conceive a nobler use of the public money, than that of manifesting public gratitude, where the claim is clearly made out, and not too lightly taken for evirxed, on the impudence of importance, making its sport of the vulgar credulity. The truth is, that from my readiness to allow the justice and fitness of bestowing pensions on those who have clearly titles to them, Springs, in some measure, my reprobation of that shameful profuston of the national treasure, Squandered away on imposture, on worthleffnefs, or on corruption, to such a degree as must render it difficult to Spare what is due to real pretensions;; as in the present course of things, the wretch of interest is Sure to be preferred to the man of merit, against whom the people of power have ever that sort of prejudice natural to medio 
pity, or to worse than mediocrity, when it gets into place. 
It 
164 
Sfbe Marquess of soberton 
It was, precisely, then, my Gonvi£hon of Mr. mowbray’s clear right to the object of his mit, that made me the "more diffident of my obtaining for him a propitious issue. I know that he has not only run out an estate, (which, if not a great one, was at least his all)) speaking, in the service of his country, while others were feanda lousty getting stupendous fortunes, in channels the most destru6tive to it. that the malice of hell 
could devise;; that he has also greatly suffered in his constitution, and twice ran the rilk of 
his life among the enemies in the late war. 
in a 
very delicate commission, which he executed with great success. After all which, he was condemned to forfeit all his claim to recompense, by his me ritoriousty giving his vote, in favour of a very worthy honest man, setup by the Public Justice to that character, in opposition to one of the most dirty, contemptible rascals, than ever disgraced the patronage of power, and who was countenanced by the Ministry, who, by the bye,, rarely countenance any other kind of fubje6ls; in which they remind me, of a sitting Alderman, who, during the late war, on a. man’s being brought before him for a villainous misdemeanour, recommended him to a regulating Captain, “as a fit person to Serve the King.” 
In compliance, however, with your recommendation, and, indeed, with my own desire to Serve, if possible. So worthy a man, I forced myself to go to the minister’s levee having never been at one before. You know, I presume, that it is a place of great trade, but as there are no staple commodities at that market but implicit votes or Servile interest, in which, 1 hope, I stiall have the grace never to deal, either as buyer or seller, I appeared with all the freedom and disengagement of a simple fpenator. 
But 
♦ V — 
to L G R E V I L L E, Esq 
165 
But I am ashamed to tell you, since it is So much at the expense of my humanity, that I could not help enjoying the diverting Sight of the group of animals in waiting, that were making circle to the minijirijjimo, who was, with the utmost awkwardness, proportioning himself to the different degrees of his noble attendants and waiters. To Some he threw into his looks a; n air of stateliness and Superiority, that I should hav wondered, if I had not known or guested the personages who were exposed to it, that they did not burst out a laughing in his face: but it was infinitely worse yet, when addressing himself to persons, whose fortune, title, and rank awed him, though they had no right to awe him, since they could be mean enough to descend So low as to an attendance upon him; he put on such a fine Simper of gracious affability and princely protection, as made me tremble for fear of not keeping my breakfast upon my stomach. 
Among them, who do you think I should see, and who would have blushed, if that had been in his power, for my catching him there, but the ‘‘ third Cato” dropped from the clouds, Mafkill, Member for Windborough, that fierce, that independent raster against Courts and Ministers, till they were either silly or vindidlive enough to muz zle him with a place, in which they could not but know he would cut a most ridiculous figure. The offer was no Sooner made him than the stroller bit at it, and all his plaster and varnish of patriotism cracked, peeled, and came off with the first ray of the Court sunshine. Do you remember my prediction of it at our hearing him from the gallery, theatrically fpousing away rants of declamation in favour of his poor, dear, injured country, in a fine tragedy tone, that reminded us of Harlequin, at Paris, in columbine’s clothes, crying 
i66 
The Marqiiefs of Soberton 
ing out with a burlesc pathos, O Caro Padre! 
0 amato Conferte! 
I observed there, too. Lord Champignon, who has, at least, the merit of not adding hipocrify to that avarice, which makes him Set that intrepid face of his to every destrudtiye measure that a Ministry, as ignorant of the national interests as of their own, could put him on : and this, not out of any hatred, at his heart to his country, but out of his Superior love for half a crown, to which he would, if it lay in his way, Sacrifice half a dozen countries, and throw that delightful, precious soul of his into the bargain. He is the only one I know, who makes open profession of a contempt for all principle, and has, upon that foot, in defiance of the public, hoisted the standard of corruption, and marched vidtorioussy against his country, drums beating and colours flying, for which he has been rewarded according to the System of the times, with a title and a fortune. 
I am Sure I should sicken you if I was to particularise to you the gallery of originals I remarked there, which would, indeed, be fuperssuoussy offensive to you, for, there is Such a same stupid uniformity in the sheep mark of that rotten flock, that your knowing one gives you to know the whole mutton headed Species, always ready to jump as the silly bell weather leads. 
As to the minister himself, he appeared, at the first sight of me, not a little embarrassed at my strange appearance where he could So little expe^ it, from the profound contempt in which he knew 
1 held him, and which his vanity hindered him from returning. For though, among men, no debt is, generally Speaking, more faithfully repaid than contempt for contempt, the vain alone have not, it Seems, that relief of despifing those who despife them : they are too much hurt not to hate; 
and 
A 4 V 
\ * 
\ 
\ 

I will not here, however, ascribe to this last Sentiment the readiness with which he gave me audience. Possibly curiosity to know what brought me there might have its share in procuring me that dispatch. 
Making up to me, then, with an affe6ted eagerness ot the most gracious difposstion, he desired to know to what it was he was happy enough to owe the honour of feeing me. 
As I knew him false, narrow minded, of a costive head and a cold heart, incapable of feeing objects as they really are, and ignorant to So great a degree, that he took the rote of forms to be the very quintessence of affairs, which rote too, was dictated to him by little creatures and Secondaries of offices, I did not amuse myself with opening the point of my bussnefs with him by a preamble of Mr. mowbray’s merit, of his Services, and, in short, of the justice of his Suit, which made the issue of itan honour to the person who should procure him the recompense, and not a favour to the petitioner. All this, I knew, would be words in waste to a man who had no conception of the ideas they were designed to convey : I told him, then, with great politeness, but firmly, that the Duke and myself expedited that a regard should be paid to our recommendation of this gentleman to the pension, of his Suit for which I knew him pre acquainted, and of which the event would in a great measure depend on him, the Sovereign dis penser of his master’s favours. To this I did not add one Syllable that could be construed into a menace, though perhaps the eqiiivalent of one was in the tone of Superiority with which I Spoke, and which rather belonged to the justice of the plea 
I was 
\ 
issm ’ 
• i •' 
111 
I ( ' 
I' 
'' p I I 
!■ ' i! 
Iji' I III 
'!■ 
LI ' 
I'll, 
'It' ' 

■; •: 
.; 
‘ > 
. I j 
68 
The Marquess of soberton 
I was urging, than to any air of arrogance or pre sumption I was giving myself. 
In answer to this my requisition, he started the obje6tion of the vote given against the known dif postilon of the Court, and concluded with asking me, if I would not think that Minister a pitiful fellow that would not take away a pension, and much more not refuse one, in such a cafe. 
y \ 
A hare beating a drum could not have diverted me more than that instnuation of political courage by a man who had not a spark of it, unless against any in such an inferior condition of life, that to oppress them vvas cowardice itself. I only then answered him, with all the coolness of contempt, that I could not imagine a greater indignity offered to a minister, than the fuppostng him mean enough to expert or accept the Sacrifice of conscientious opinion, a Sacrifice which was nothing better thap the homage of a stave, to the stave of Some miserable court plan, in opposition to the interest of the nation.. That I did not, however, apply to him to give him lessons of politics, and less yet to receive them from him, that I only desired to know upon what it was I had to depend, that I might acquaint my father of his answer, and take m measures accordingly. 
Now, whether this peremptory manner of treating him overawed him or not, I will not pretend to Say, or upon what motives he yielded, but yield he did, and the pension is now a6fpally Secured to your friend, upon the most honourable terms he could wish, without condition or reserve, and expressiy as it should be, as a reward of his merit. 
As Soon, however, as I had got my answer I left the levee room, glad to breath a less putrid air than that of a place, which, considering the prostitutes who were plying at it, had all the rankness 

to L G R E V I L L E, EL; 

Tiefs of a brothel, of which the choice pieces were at once, stupid, impudent, ill favoured, and rotten into the bargain. 
Now, as to the obliging offer you write me Mrs. Williams makes, of keeping for me, against the next races, the apartment I occupied at her house the last year; be so good as ta make her a handsome present in my name, fofthe compliment, of which I do not propose to avail myself, as there is nothing I more firmly determine, than never punishing myself with another sight of that kind, which may divert whom it pleases, soit is not your humble Servant. 
To Say the truth, I hate races because I love horses,, having learned from you to confi der riding as an accomplishment indispensable to a gentleman, and having, in consequence, used my best endeavours to acquire it, I must naturally look with contempt upon an use made of them that has no relation, or at least a very remote one, to that attainment; because, too, I am grieved to see so noble, so praiseworthy a motive, as that of procuring fine breeds of that valuable animal, put to so vile an use, as to be made the pretext of Sacrificing So much time, money, taste, and cha rafiler, to the abandoned stupidity of the present Sistem of races, and assemblies at races, compounded as they are of the dirty, despicable misteries of the turf, of the infamous chances of the hazard table, and, perhaps, to crown all, of the noisy roar of a jollitry, railed by a wretched tartarous wine, the parent of so many lingering diseases and 
racking pains, as well as of so much lamentable nonsense. 
It is, no doubt, far from being beneath men of fortune and rank to, give their attention to the keeping up the breed of our horses; but would not it be to the full as commendable for them to bestow vol. II I, fomc 

170 She Marquess oysoberton. 
Some little pains on preserving their ownselves from degeneracy? 
besides, L am not very clear, that the generality of these noble horfe keepers do not make of it rather a point of parade, than of public utility; as the King of Siam maintains a ^^hite elephant, more for state than service. Among the egregious cullies of that kind of vanity, can you forget ’squire hobby who having a number of capital racers, some tf them’adfually entered for the plate, thought it something osta mighty pretty air to exhibit himself, ambling about the course, on a scrub poney not worth fifty billings?? 
for those harpers, or adventurers, who keep horses for a livelihood, or the family men, the bet mongers, and the like locusts of the green, I have nothing more to say, than that such as are devoured by them very well deserve their fate; for Surely a Set of duller wretches never existed: they have not an idea out of the horfe courfe, or above the capacity of that animal, nor a word to convey an idea, but what is contained : in the jocky jargon, or cant of the turf. 
Certainly, after all, a mere race horfe is a thing of very little use, implying no ferviceablenefs for the road, the chase, or for war : unless, indeed, on such an oc casson as the Battle of the Spurs in France, where the prize was for the fleetest runaway. As to the Sport itself, a more unmanly, a more frivolous one can hardly, be conceived, than that of feeing those creatures, under mercenary riding grooms, put to their utmost Speed, and straining every nerve, to convey not a Single idea beyond the obvious one, that a horse with blood and breeding for the course must run rather swifter than a dray on a cart horfe. Then as to any honour of the victory, so much of it falls to the hare of the horse and she jocky, that there is little left worth mentioning to the 
great 
Voto 
L Greville, fjq\ 171 
reat keeper himself of the running cattle, whose.. merely of property cannot be much Superior to that of a good horfe dealer. For my part, I cannot see where the mighty great difference lies, of a man’s having his mistress ridden for his pleasure, by a proxy, or his horse, for his honour, by a groom. 
I own, I thought the anniversary race of the Pallio at Bologna stupid enough, in all conscience, though we could not help admiring the instindt of that noble animal, in the barbary courfers, who run for the prize without riders, and who consequently are not to be spoken ’wlthf There was at least Something worth remark in the prancings, and exultations of the winning horse, on the prize, a piece of brocade being carried, with music in state, before him; while the others followed with dejection of head, and dragging their legs after them. Such a triumph does not mistecome a horse, upon a victory all his own: but in the name of common sense, where can there be in this to the two legged owner any great matter of strut, especially too to the owner that does not ride him himself? Though I think I see the hardly Suppressed Swell of face of one of those immortal geniuses, for his horse the black joke having won the last king’s plate, by the Superior jocky ship of Tom Collins, his riding groom. Perhaps the growing sense of the emptiness and numbing stupidity of this diverston, became the cause of Seeking to render it more lively, more interesting, by the addition of bets, in which cafe the remedy was Surely worse than the disease. Since that villainous accessary has Swallowed up the principal. Who does not now see, that the Spirit of gambling has taken the lead of the Spirit of racing, and distanced it out of ^ght? Are even Some of the illustrious sprigs of our Nobility clear of that Scoundrel vice? 
I 2 There 
172 he Marquess of Soberton 
There is Lord Pigeonet: I do not Say he will di reffiy cheat you of half a crown on the turf lay; no; but he will lay what he thinks a devilish clever train to make you cheat yourself; and triumph on his success in such a low, dirty piece of cunning, as much as any of his ancestors could have done on the most heroic deed of arms. There is worse yet; he will find among his noble compeers those that will or envy, or admire him for it. But this conformablenefs is no wonder; nothing more common than to see Knavery arm in arm with Folly, its banker. I know, however, the tenaciousness of an absurdity, reduced into fistem, too well to hope it will be soon exploded with the Scorn it deserves. There is no privilege more dear, more Sacred, to a fool, than that of persevering in his fooleries with an obstinacy that gjorioufly .fills up to him all his void of reason;; that you j may just as well crack your whip in the air, as aim the friendly lash at his nonfense. I think I see the figure Folly with her tail held up by Fortune, and with her broad unthinking face, sticking her arms a kimbo; with her stupid bloated insolence, bidding defiance to Wisdom, and telling her she will do what she pleases for all her. 
To complete the joke, there is nothing wanting hut that some crazy Frenchman, bit with this iprecious maggot, should carry it to his country! and, in procurion the adoption of one of our follies, give us some revenge for the fhoufands we have imported of theirs. i 
But let that be as it may, my life for it there .will not, at the next races, be a horse, an idiot, or a sharper the less, for any protestation of tale against their futility, or of honour against the infamous ingraftment of gambling on that ill] stock. 
To say but the truth, most of our bubbles o' 
fafliioi 
/ 
r - 
to L Greville, 173 
Safhlon live intrinsically as thoughtless as girls of the town, and with as little concern as they, for character, unless perhaps among one another, which is as much as to say, they dare not break herd for fear of the ridicule of those they despise, for nothing is more certain than their commutual contempt. It is even their principle of cohesion. A foous never more at ease than with a fool, if it is but for the ill natured pleasure of laughing at one another. A dunce never gives quarter to a dunce. 
Thus far. Sir, in answer to your letters, which have carried me to a length that, if I did not respect truth above everything, I might ascribe to my deference to your advice of exercissng, at once, the faculty of thinking, and the talent of writing in such confidential emanations from the heart, in the epistolary vein; but let me be more just to you, or at least anticipate the shrewdnefs of your conjecture, which would probably lead you to guess my motive. I have, then, been principally, in this tedious preamble, playing the part of the Schoolboy, loitering or taking the longest way to School, where he is sure of meeting with a correction he is right conscious of having deserved. This is but too truly my cafe. Prepare yourself, then, to lecture me well, for once more I tell you before hand, I am in the wrong, and stand felf con demned. 
To the point, then. You know my Situation with Lady Harriet, whom I have often thought it pleasant that you should chide me for not loving enough, when I really was as much irt love wish her as it was in my power to be; and certainly I loved no one elfe. You are certain I am not one of great profellions, and perhaps not the more for that deficient in fenilments. I had always done Lady Harriet the justice of considering her as perfectly capable of making a reasonable man very 
1-3 happy. 
d ♦ 
r 
11 
> I 
j 1 
! i 
174 Lhe Marquess of soberton 
happy. Both her person and temper appeared very pleasing to me; her own merit, then, which did not even stand in need of my mother’s recommendation, I, in the stmplicity of my heart, thought Sufficient to secure my heart to her. Perhaps I too little distrusted rnyfelst or I stiould not have now 
to give you rather a disagreeable account of myself. 

I had chosen, after my mother’s decease, my aunt clifford’s at Peterstiam, there to remain in recess for sometime, till I stiould have finished the examination of some papers, with the consequential notes upon them, by my father’s Special direistion. While I staid there, you may be sure I would not omit to see Mrs. Pierpoint, which is hut a gentle walk from my aunt’s. Finding her full of her encomiums of Clara, a companion of L ady Harriet, who had often mentioned her to me, and always with great warmth of praise, but whom I had never Seen, she readily entered into a very innocent scheme of mine for Satisfying with my own eyes, my curiosity. I found, too, that some preparation was the more necessary, for that she hardly ever appeared in any of the royal gardens about Richmond, or in any public place where I might have the chance to see her; I was told, at the same time, that this reserve, did not, as might be colledied from the rest of her behaviour’s being perfeisuy clear of any = artifice, proceed from the consciousness of how much value rareness adds to beauty, but purely from an averston for the glare of life and from a peculiar taste of her’s for domestic retirement, by the imitating of wshich negative prudence many of her sex might, be gainers, and the public no great loser. Theydo not enough confider, that they are like Some kinds of merchandise which do not go off the worse, for 
the being rather kept in a warehouse, than ex' 


to L Greville, ejq'., 
1-75 
posed at a shop window. To Say the tfuth, none lose more than the women by our present way of treating them. Instead of encouraging them to look upon themselves, as they really are, born to be the bleshngs of domestic life, we make of them a vain, insipid, foolish decoration, ' and consider them purely as butterflies fluttering about to amuse the eye for the moment without touching the heart. Nor can I imagine, that there can be any great joy in the confuston which reigns in mixed companies, where the figures, who are corrimonly silly enough caricatures, neither leave, nor deserve to leave any more impreshon on the head or heart, than those from a magic lantern on a wall, which Succeed and efface one another with equal rapidity. It is then in favour to the fair that I would have that just medium observed, which preserves to them their dignity, without abridging them of their due share of the current entertainments. I would not wish them recluses, nor not to go occasionally to public places, but I would not have them live in them. Pafs me this digreshon; as it is to the honour of Clara I could not suppress it. 
Well, then, to Mrs. pierpoint’s she came, and I stole into the room just as she was executing, with the accompanyment of the harpsichord, an Italian Song much in vogue, with a divine voice, a most masterly skill, and with more graces than ever La Gabrieli threw into her execution. This is no fulfom exaggeration; it is literal truth. But, oh 1 my friend, when she got up to receive my compliment of introdu<£tion. What a celestial figure! What an irresistible power of beauty; enough to strike wit stupid, or to irradiate stupidity with wit! Such a shape! Such an air! Such a complexion! Let who will for me admire the Ivory of the Greeks, the Ebony of the Africans, the Copper of the Americans, the Jonquil of the Indians, 
1 4 the 
1 
176 
The Marquess of Soberton 
the Orange of the tawny Moors, but give me the Roses of Britain! With what a delicacy did they not bloom on her cheeks, to lose themselves by degrees in the ambient White’ While all together Ihe displayed one of those rare forms, that Nature seems to create in complaisance to Love, for the greater glory of his prerogative, in the confusion of our reason. 
But when we entered into conversation, she Soon discovered tome that her outward charms were the least of her merit. So modest 1 So proper! So correct, without stiffness! Then a voice which was melody itself; in such a harmony with everything she said, wh'i^ everything she Said breathed the Spirit of truth, and the energy of Sentiment, that nothing could more strongly prove the power of reconciling sense to Sound, and of giving to reason itself the charms of musical ex prestion. But what Sovereignly enchanted me. was the total unconsciousness that appeared in her, of her excessive beauty, without the least taint of affedlation, that horrid and detestable, Sm against the graces of nature. Her understanding Seemed to have all the nerve of manliness, under the soft nefs of the most exquistte female delicacy. Upon my honour, the more I reflect on such an assemblage of perfedfions, the less I find myself guilty or not having withstood their power. 
I was not, however, coxcomb enough to be the bubble of that ingenuous frankness, that gracious ease which she threw into her reception of me. I was far from construing it extraordinarily in my favour; for I plainly discerned that I owed it to the footing on which I stood with Lady Harriet, and which, I confess it with shame, I could, for an obvious reason, have been content with its not being quite So advantageous an one. Yet, to that consideration it was that I was obliged for leave to 
pay 
'/ 
A' 
io L Greville, Esq 
177 
pay her my respe6ts, where she was living at one Mrs. buckley’s, the widow of an Attorney, but a woman of a most cultivated understanding, and a most excellent character. I think, too, she must have been, in her time, remarkably handsome, which may be discerned through all her present total neglect of anything that might fet off her person. Her air is still extremely noble, and she carries with her all the deportment of one wbo has, seen the highest company, in the way it is the best to see it, with a just Superiority to it. She brought but a small fortune to her husband, who had a very competent one, independent of his practice, which was very extensswe, and very honourable to him for the probity with which he exer -- cifed it. He had had, it seems, the good fense to discover those treasures of it, which Mrs. Buckley possessed, and which his own great learning, enabled him to improve to a, very uncommon pitch in return for which she made Him the happiest of men in her domestic condu€l:.. At his decease he left her in very easy circumstances.. All this I particularise to youj not only as I know you delight in such characters, but as nothing is indifferent that has any relation to Clara, to whom she is a kind of aunt, by marriage: In short, she, is a very worthy refpediable woman. 
Of my permishon then to” visst them, I did riot fail of availing myself; but took great care not to give it any air of mystery or destgn, So as to alarm the delicacy of Clara, or any suspicion of Lady Harriet, who, on the contrary, was extremely pleased at the notice I took of her friend. In another, this Security might have appeared a presumption, but I: must do her the justice to say, though the truth tends to condemm 
, that it was owing either to her coni 
£ shleucs^ 
178 
The Marquejs ofsobertoi? 
stdence in me, or in Clara, and, indeed, I rather fancy in both. 
The opportunity, however, of Seeing Clara, in which I indulged myself as afllduoufly as I durst, confistently with the necessity I Saw there was of keeping fair with all parties, could not fail of producing the natural effect of enstaving me more and nqiore. Every time I saw her I discovered new beauties in her, and had the less power left to listen to the protestations of my reason, and e ven of my honour, against a new passion, in the circumstances I was in with Lady Harriet, whom I could not still say that I did not love, though not in the violent degree with which Tburnt for Clara. 
Whenever 1 was going to visit this sovereign of my soul. It was always with the pain of a heart distradted between a dessre of succeeding with her, and the inward reproaches of wounded honour; but at the sight of her every Scruple vanished, to leave to love the entire rriastery of the field. 
As to Clara, I am very Sure, that in the innocence of her heart, and the Simplicity of her intentions, she never once had any the least glimmering perception of all that passion with which she was inspiring me, and for which I was, at the first, myself the less diffident, from its being perfedily pure and clear of any libertine impression. My love wa masked to me by that friendship which is perhaps bne.of the greatest proofs of love, being, in truth, inseparable from that passion where that passion exists as a Sentiment. I am, indeed, but too Sensible, and am perhaps myself an in stance, that the cafuistry of love is rather a relaxed one, but not to Such a pitch as to allow of enmity to the object of it, and Surely there cannot be a greater hostility than projecting its dishonour or ruin. My infidelity to Lady Harriet vasa great fault, though an involuntary one as I was yielding to a 
refistlefs, 

/ 
y 
to L G R E V 1 L L E, Esq 179 
resistlefs power; but I could not the more for that harbour a thought of injury to Clara, the innocent cause of my guilt. 
Mrs. Buckley discovered as Soon, or sooner, probably, than myself, the weakness into which I was falling, and the drift of my assiduities, and I must do her the justice to attest, that she threw into my way every difcouragcment that she could, without coming, to an explanation with me, that must have ended in an open rupture, and without acquainting Clara of her suspicions. This, I Suppose, she avoided, either that she might not disquiet her, or because she judged it best to let the discovery come from her ownself. I could have heartily wished to have had her on my Side; I founded the ford, but found it impradficable. In, short, as far as I durst pen myself, at a distance,, and and in oblique hints, I found her unapproachable, for which, in my heart, I detested and honoured her, and despised myself. 
My cafe every day growing more and more desperate, by the increase of my pashon to an intolerable height, and by urgency of the term that could not be far off, for my making good my engagements to Lady Harriet, I was driven to a state of distradfion. Often had I been tempted to give myself the relief of acquainting Clara of the condition of my heart: but never could muster up courage enough to hazard the step. There was. always, when I approached her with that intention, Something in her looks that checked me, unknown perhaps to herself. 
I knew she had at her option a number of advantageous offers, which she showed no inclination to accept; I knew she had refused Lord Lovell,, in a manner the most Spirited and the most no — ble. All this, while it raised my passion, sunk my 
hopes, especially as my cafe with regard tq her, 
wa.5'i 

PW 
180 
Th 
O 
?fs 
was far from favourable. I had a double talk to fulfil, a perfidy to extenuate, and a palfion to declare. With many of the sex, indeed, the first would be rather a recommendation of the last, though I cannot say I much admire the wisdom of admitting an infidelity to one woman, to be a very great temptation for another woman’s faith. But soit too often is. Then as to the other’s being a friend, that consideration would but render the triumph the greater in the sacrifice. But I knew Clara too well, and had too much love not to tremble for a very different reception. 
To Speak, then, I fairly confess it, I was afraid, especially having a plea to urge of the badness of which I was myself inwardly but too much convinced, my heart treating me So tyrannically, that while it was compelling me to obey its orders, it disdained to conceal from me the injustice of them. Shameful and detested weakness! We readily allow that we feel the force of the pastions, but do jiot lay stress enough on our equally feeling our duty to resist them. On this occasion I was mortified to the highest degree, to find that all the authority of my reason Submitted to their lawless Jway, and could neither bear the figure I adtual jy made to myself, nor that which I so justly apprehended I should make to Clara, on the declaration to her of my sentiments. The worst of it, too, was, that I had too much cause to think; I should have ail the guilt to myself, in vain, withr ut the consolation of making an accomplice,. 
In the necestity, however, I was under of r.un jiing the riffc, which I had not the power of so much as endeavouring to decline, I chose of the only two ways there were for me to run it, that which was the least embarrasting to me. I wrote to Clara, then, a letter, and received her answer, the copies of both which 1 indose you, for your 
con 
A: ' 
l9 Mhp CL AKA Maynwaring 
I Sr 
tonsideration, only entreating of you, in the midst, of judgement, not to forget mercy. Remember that I have begun as I now end, with condemning myself. Yours, 
soberton. 
LETTER XXVI 
inte Marquess of Soberton to Miss Clara 
Maynwaring. 
Mih, 
Feierjham 
determined by a ressstless impulsion to write to you upon a point on which, I confess, I dare not personally Speak to you; how shall I go on, who have already So inaufpicioufly begun? Or what can I say to you, with any hopes of a favourable acceptance, while the very Suit I have to urge to you is itself my crime }: 
Yet one would imagine, that a sstuation to the reproach of humankind. So common as mine, might, at least,, furnisti the form and matter of an apology in extenuation; but you, O incomparable Clara! stand in Such a degreejof Superhuman eminence, that, with respeft to you, there is nodrawing into precedent the past procedure of any of our Sex towards any of yours. 
Everything eonspires to discourage me. While those perfections of your’s, which form, at bottom, the strongest plea in favour of my delinquency, are in the awe with which they strike me So great a check to my hopes of your forgiving it, what reason have I not to despair of your rewarding it, ef your crowning it with the highest happiness, to which the greatest innocence joined with the greatest worthiness could hardly dare to aspire I 
JL 

! f 
I I 
r \ 
[r «. > 
182 Lhe Marquess of soberton 
•4 
I shall not, however, make any merit to you of not using any false colouring or artifice, as I am very clear, that your great good fenfe would immediately see through it, and spurn the indignity offered to it, from which you are, besides, abundantly defended, by the sincerity of my sentiments towards you. 
With intentions less pure,, less candid than mine, another would, at least, evade the mention of the degree of engagement in which I stand with Lady Harriet, if but to avoid the untowardnefs of the reminding you of so unfavourable a Situation, and making, as it were, a necessity of honour to you, to seize so obvious a plea for your denial. 
But, angelic Clara, I am sofar from wishing you to forget it, that it is precisely on your just, your fair consideration of that very circumstance, a consideration, especially, in the light of friendship to Lady Harriet, that I ground what very little hope I have of your suffering me to sue for, pity, if in vain it is I must sue for love.. 
Is it not even comformable to your own principles, which, are so admirably just, to condemn one, who should consent to the nuptial union with nothing more than indifference for the other party? Yet, how much greater must be the guilt of perpetrating a marriage, with a violent passion in the heart for another? In such a position may it not be truly said, that Love and Honour both a gree to forbid the banns, before it is yet too late ?’ If in such a dilemma a point of honour stands opposed to a point of honour, is it not fit that the greatest of the two should carry it? And, surely, the greater one is, in this cafe, not to consummate so. unaufpicious a sacrifice as that must be, to which the heart is wanting. In what is it that the worthy, the estimable, the truly amiable Lady Harriet can have deserved fa ill of me, that I should wish 
tg' 

to Clara Maynwaring. 
183 
to give her my hand while my heart is another’s? Yes, another’s, without any fault of mine. Deign to ask yourself this question. Is not my present sh tuation one of those forced ones, to which pity is so much more due than blame? Is it not the necessary effe6\ of that invincibly, Superior power of your’s, which is at once the cause and the justification? 
What friendship, then, would it not be to Lady Harriet, to deliver her from one, who is himself too unfortunate to make her happy? 
But what a Superhuman effort of generosity would it be, an effort worthy, in Short, of the divine Clara, not only to forgive an involuntary fault, if loving her could be called a fault, but in consideration of herself being the cause, innocently sono doubt, but still the cause, to think Some compassion due to me, if not Some amends, in that Spirit of equity, which didfates the reparation of any hurt to another, though but an unintentional one? 
Nor would I have you think, incomparable Clara, that I would wish, even were it in my power, to draw you into any procedure that would, or at least ought to lessen you in your own opinion. No. It is by my passion’s being founded on esteem, that I know it to be a virtue; and consequently Superior either to the meanness of a clandestine obliquity, or to the greater meanness yet of a false bravade. 
I propose, then, I will not Say on your leave for it, but on your not expressly forbidding it, to repair directly to Lady Harriet, to throw myself at her feet, and, by an ingenuous confession of the state of my heart, merit, at least, her pity, if not her forgiveness. I will go farther. I will make her, next to yourself, the arbitress of my fate. I would even tender to her that instant my 
hand. 

0 
!!!' 
\: u 
h'.. 
in (r I; : '.f ’ 
II ' 
t 
El 
1s4 
The Marquejs ^ysobertan 
hand, but for a reason, which certainly would not be that of fearing she would take me at my word, in which eventi should unquestionably realise my offer, but because such an offer would have too much the air of indignity, as it I could imagine she would not Scorn to accept me in such a sttuation. To say but the truth, I have so high an opinion of her, that while I do not despair even of her showing clemency to my guilt towards her, I am sure of her doing justice t j your perfe6t innocence. 
Unfortunately, the greatest of my fears is, not that of her reception of a declaration compelled from me by the neceshty of it, and even fan^ified by the inviolable regard I have for herself, and for those laws of honour that ffo strongly remonstrate against pushing to a conclusion an engagement, which is prophaned where Love refuses his plenary assent; I am more in pain yet, and not without reason, lest this procedure of mine should give you an ill opinion of my charaqier, or an unfavourable impression of my power of constancy. To an objection so obvious on this occasion, and, I add, even against myself, so naturally to be inferred from my own plea; what satisfactory answer have I to make? Not any, I repeat it not any, except one, which is not a whit the less fa eredly true for its being so trite, so commo nr place an one, and to which, moreover, your supreme modesty will hinder from giving the weight that it deserves. It is this that you are, by your match — less perfe6lions, placed above all fear, all danger ef any present or future comparison to your disadvantage, with any human beauty that the universe can be imagined to produce. O Clara! deign, but to do yourself justice. Where is that requisste: hat you do not sovereignly possess, for gaining the heart and fixing it for ever.j^ 
[ iss ] 
In this true unflattered light it is, that I contemplate you, with the full approbation of even my reason, which assures me I can do nothing more agreeable to it, than to offer you, with all the diffidence of conscious inferiority to your merit, everything in my power, to lay at your feet, and to entreat your acceptance, on your own terms, while in every event I remain, with perfect devotion, respect, and esteem. Miss, Your most devoted, and most faithful humble servant, Soberton, 
ca 
LETTER XXVII 
Clara Maynwaring to the Marquess ej 
soberton. 
My Lord marquefsy 
Richmond 
there is in your letter an alarming passage, 
which has thrown me into So exquisste a distress, that I hope I shall stand excused to decency for this injury to it, in answering one of your sex, efpeciaily on the subject on which you have been pleased to write me: It is, my Lord, where you cruelly threaten me to go to Lady Harriet, and to take me for your text of insult to the woman in the world who the least deserves it, and particularly from your Lordstiip. 
You reserve to me, it is true, the liberty to forbid that horrid step. But the word ** belongs to a style of authority, which I have no pretentions to use to your Lordstiip. As a very high favour, indeed, I may and shall take it, if you will, on this occaston, deign to allow me a representation, which will, at the same time, include an answer to the rest of your letter. 
But first give me leave to return your Lordship 
my 

186 
Clara Maynwaring 
my most humble thanks for the compliments of which you have condescended to be So lavish on me, and of which not one flatters me so greatly as the profession of your esteem : I value it lo highly, that I stiould be extremely loth to forfeit it; and if the Smcerest retribution of that sentiment may acquit me to your Lordship of rny acknowledgments, I can, with great truth, assfure you, that I have ever done justice to your merit, and never wished you worse than that you should keep up to your great charadfer, nor ever derogate from yourself. 
I do not here, my Lord, mean to enter with you into any discussion of the plea you draw from the power of that lawless passion, of which my knowing nothing, and my wish to know nothing, which is not, I assure you, lessened by this circumstance, dispenses me from saying any more. 
I have but one fuccindt peremptory answer to offer. Perfedfiy fenssble as I am of all it must have cost one of your lordship’s strict honour to make me so undue a sacrifice, I cannot better prove my gratitude to you, than by my not accepting it. This is my unalterable resolution. Nor will you, I presume, take offence at this, since that cannot be called a refusal, which is only so of what it is not in my power to grant, nor, indeed, very clearly in yours to offer. 
As your Lordship, then, may rest fully assured of the impossibility of my changing my mind, I leave it to yourself to judge, whether you can, to any valuable purpose, make use of my name to strike a dagger to Lady harriet’s heart, and through her’s to mine, in such a confession as you have threatened hie with making to her. 
Hitherto this transstory eclipse of your reason has had no other consequences than giving me the greatest uneasinefs, which I ssncerely forgive : Nay, 
shall 

. to the Marquess 0/ S o B E R T o N. 187 
shall ever remember the motive, not only with gratitude, but to your great honour, on its becoming to you an occasion for exerting the superiority of your virtue, and proving your power even over yourself. 
As this step of your’s is a profound Secret to Lady Harriet, and may ever remain So, you have no reparation to make to her, but that of returning to her with a regard only the greater, for its momentary intcruption : A procedure this so much its own reward in the happiness it will bring with it, in the innocence it will restore to you, and in the honour it will do you, as can hardly tempt in vain a heart So noble as that of Lord Soberton. In what could you find the equivalent of the only measure left for your recovering your own esteem? Mine is not worth mentioning. 
With this I inclose and return your letter, in no intention of slight or difrespedf, you may be Sure, but purely not to keep any monument that might have the air of a trophy on this untoward incident, which, however, it is now So much iti your power to turn into the greatest of all human triumphs, the triumph over yourself; 
I am, with every Sentiment of esteem and respe6l 
j 
My lord mark ss 
9 
Your lordship’s most obedient and 
most humble Servant 
9 
Clara Maynwaring 
End of the Second Volume 
F 

II! 
t!=‘' 
VI 
‘1 
;; I 
Oil 
t' 
I ■ 
f'iii 
; iir 
ii 
J 
, t. 
i h 
; h 
! 
If.' 
It 
n 
II • 
i • ■ 
- 
iit 
i;; - 
'! I 
. l.)c t 
it 
j1 

j \ 
; «: : 
• *.' ' I 
jl. 
I: 
'■ »• 
■ 11‘>' 
hlb: 
.■ <■ I 
bi • 
'»■ 1' 
i; ', 
• II. 
i'iii:! 
if": 
il|n| 
'' I • I 
•is 
L 
of 
.s 
I ■ 
HI 
IQ 
ii •• 

i 
Books of Entertainment, 
Published by James Williams, Bookseller, 
in Skinner Row. 

n 
BEL LISA RIUS 
By Marmontell. 
price 2s. 8d. h. 
le TRIUMVIRATE tic Memoirs of And; Carewe, 2 vols. 
5s. fcl 
The History of Sir Charles Gran 
difon, 7 vols. 
I 
Qs. 6d 
The History of Clarista Harlowe, 
7 vols. 19s. 6d. 
The History of miss Sally Sable. 2s. 8d. 
The Adventures of Capt. Greenland, 4 vols 
I of. lod. 
The supposed Daughter: or, the Innocent 
Imposture. 2s. 8d. h. 
True Merit, True happiness : or, the Adventures of Mr, SEATON. 2s. 8d. h. 
i 
THE 
\ 
w 
M 
A 
N 
O F 
TT 
Jnl 
o 
N 
o 
R. 
In THREE VOLUMES. 
VOLUME III 

Letters bring things more home, and represent them more to the life, than either Annals or Lives. 
Bacon, Lord Verulam. 
DUBLIN: 
* _____ 
Printed for James Williams, in Skinner row. 
M Dcc Lxviir. 
I 

I! ■ 
L 
II 
[)• 
LI 
S' 
k 
■ 
II ’ 
h 
ki 
iiil 
i?' ' 
'b I 
I 1 
»< r 
rii 


t. 
I 
1 
1 
fi i 
I. 
1 ^ 
id 1 
i 
if I 
, ?■ y 
1- V 
Books of Entertainment 
Published by James w’^illiams, Bookseller, 
in Skinner Row. 
The History of miss Harriet Fitzroy, 
AND 
Miss EMEU A SPENCER. 
Written after the Manner of Mr. richardfon’s Clarilfa 
By theauthoroslucindacourtney. 2s. 8d.h. 
ALSO, 
The History of Felicia and Charlotte. 
B Y T H E 
Editor of the Death of Abel. 2s. 8d, h. 
m 
also, 
The Country Cousins : 
Or, a Journey to London. 2s. 8d h. 
A L s o, 
The Vicar of Wakefield, a Tale. 
By OLIVER GOLDSMITH. 3s. 3d. 

ALSO, 
The Adventures, Voyages, and surprising escapes of Capt. Froude of Cork 2s. 2d, 

[ <91 ] 
M 
M 
O 
R 
O F A 
WOMAN of HONOUR, 
LETTER XXVIII 
Lancelot Greville, Esq to the Marquess of 
Sobertor. 
My Lord Marquess 
Gloucejlerjhire. 
Your letter has given me great pain, on more accounts than one. But let me reply to it in order, point fcr point, in th hopes that considering how essential most of the matters are which draw from me this answer, you will forgive its unconfcionably exceeding all the uncommon limits of a letter. It is then rather an episso lar pamphlet, that I am offering to you in virtue of that authority of friendly advice which you have not disdained to continue to me. 
I am very sorry, though not at all surprised at my lord duke’s receiving no material benefit from the spaw waters. That Dr. Addle, in whom your father places So implicit a confidence, has, it Seems, for a lass ressburce, after he has done all the mischief he can to his patient’s cpnssitution by his prescriptions of worse than only ineffesfual medicines, the rage of sending them to any waters that occur to his imagination, without the Shadow of reason or propriety. 
I dare aver, that there can hardly a difease be vol. III named. 

192 The Marquess of %0'bis.^‘v 0 
named, to which the Spaw, must not, on the plainest rules of common fense, be more likely to be unfavourable than Salutary. That many lick’ have returned thence, with their disorders diminished, or even cured, I make no doubt, but not from any good that could be fairly attributed to the waters. They have, on those occasions, the merit of a victory to which they contributed nothing, nay, oftenest obtained in Spite of them; a circumstance in common to them with many a philician, whoboasts of curing where he could not kill, though, two against one, the disease and himself. A villainous marshy situation, down a vale, with an air confined by the Surrounding mountains, and waters only the worse for their being impregnated with harsh metalline particles, not only difficultly assimilable, but so likely to throw their weight unfavourably into the balance of the Solids against the fluids, afford not one satisfaqiory reason why Such a place should be recommendable for the recovery of health. Nor is this my opinion singular. The judicious Rbedi^ who was one of the first philicians, in ^hese latter ages, that endeavoured to restore his art to the simplicity of nature, and endeavoured it in vain, makes the following perfectly fensible remark on them. 
Those so much boasted mineral waters, always “leave in the human body a great part of their 
mineral faburraf 
Your Lordship, even without that tincture of natural philosophy in which you so much delight, and with no more than the plain lights of reason, must easily conclude that Such particles, only the more pernicious for their minuteness, must make a dreadful havoc in the Small' capillary vessels, on which, the great principles of life capitally depend, and into which the fluid in which they swim, 
com 
the Marquess of Soberton. 193 
compell the admittance of these hostile inmates. To old age, their destccative astringency must be highly injuriofts, and increase the obstru6lions and rigefcence already too natural to that time of life. Nor indeed do I conceive any age, or any distemper, in which they can do other than harm, except perhaps in the Soft telaxed ststem of young children, or of girls eaten up with the green fick nefs; in granting which, I am not very clear, that I do not grant too much. 
Sure I am, however, that Some Noblemen of the first distinction, whose cafes were, I may say, palpably opposite to the prescription of them, may be laid to have perished, or at least, in all human probability, to have had their death accellerated by the use of them. If ever the light of a truly phifical inquiry should be carried into, this subject, I have strong reasons to believe that these waters, and many other thermal, chalibeate, and mephitic, now in vogue in a medical intention, will be banished into the wide and lamentable domains of chimaera, together with the virtues of asses milk, of bezoar, of pearl, and that childish trick of Riverius, by which he got an estate, of the effervescence of lemon juice, Saturated with Salt of wormwood, and a multitude of other articles, worse than only unserviceable, which here is not the place to particularise to you. 
It must Surely give an alarming pain to humanity to think, that while the laws are so punchli ousty attentive to the defence of property, they take so little care of prefervingthat health without which there can be no enjoyment of property. Would any one believe, that the lives of the fubjecls should be left exposed, as they actually are, under Such insufficient guard, to credulity on one fide, and to ignorance or mercenary imposture, on the other? How easy, but especially how necessary a measure of state would that be, to erect a tri 
vol. II K bunal 
194 L G R E V 1l L E, Esq to 
bunal of magistrates of health, for the protefhoii of that inestimable benefit of nature? 
Who can remember, without Shuddering with horror, that two^of the highest class of life perished, not long since, under, and not quite impossibly, by Such an infernal prescription as that of brown paper in milk, boiled away to a third, for ajdiforder, which it was more likely to give than cure? 
I could name to your Lordship one Nobleman, recently deceased, who had, long before his death, lost the use of all his limbs, by his fatal listening to the promises of a quack, whose drug was rank poison. The tortures and murders by these false pretences are innumerable, while Scarce a day pastes, without the boast of new Specifics, which, in Spite of the averred proved inefficacy and perni cioufnefs of the old ones, still find fresh bubbles and fresh vififims. 
Nor let me be so unjust as to impute exclusively to quackery and empiricism, mischiefs from which the rational phific, as it is most falsely called, is itself far from exempt; the present theory of it, and especially of the powers of the various articles of pharmacy, being so demonstrably .groundless and wrong, that a very eminent protestor of the art Said, with perfeq; justice, that he was the greatest phifician who had the least faith in phific as it now stands. Another also, of a well deserved reputation, confested, he was in most cafes more embarrasted about prescribing what should not hurt, than what could relieve the patient. In the present prafitice, the regulars prescribe upon a falfc judgement, the quack upon no judgement at all; and it is of these last that mankind must questionless have the least bad bargain, if if be true, that the march of Scientific error must be uniformly wrong; whereas, though the odds against any good from the blindness of ignorance are extremely 

the Mark fs 0/ So BERT ON. 195 
ly great, it is not, however, impossible, that the round of chance may produce a happy hit. 
In this age of dioilonaries, a well reafoned index expurgatorious, or didlionary of the medicines that are not to be trusted to in the diseases for whicst theyare generally prefer ibed, or indeed to be trusted at all, would not be an undesirable work, and might help to atone for the thousands of Superfluous or pernicious ones, with which the public is incessantly pestered. Nor would the list be a short one of the pretended remedies those domestic traitors, taken into our Service on a false charaqier, and infamous for their breaches of trust to us at our greatest need. In short, nothing can hardly be more essential to mankind, than a new rationale of pharmacy, combined with a new theory of phific : both as things are, being demonstrably false, according to reason, and, what I hope no one will deny, according to experience. 
I should imagine, too, that whoever had power enough of persuasion to explode but a ssngle noxious article of our present common Sistem of diet, however generally received, or rather with the more reason for its being generally received, could hardly deserve much less of universal Society, than those fabled heroes of antiquity, who could have at best but the local temporary merit of delivering a country, or part, of a country, from some wild beast, like that of Gevaudan, whose ravages must be incomparably less extenstve, less durable, and, perhaps, constdering the torments and death accelerated by diseases, intrinstcallv not more horrid. But even the hopes of such a success are denied by man to man, ever his own greatest enemy, and ever more ready to be persuaded to his harm than to his good. Slight and ridicule are probably but the least cruel return, that would await the attempt. 

A pleastng, though pernicious habit of 
K 2 the 
196 
Essai 
1 
If (; !■ i, 1 
> 
i 
the palate will for ever carry it against the vain protest of the human stomach and constitution. 
I return your Lordship many thanks for your effectual exertioninfavor of Mr. Mowbray, whose success is the more unexpe6ted for the justice of his claim. Besides, he was in all respects too worthy a man not to despair of having anything done for him. What stiadow is there for merit to hope a recompense, either among those who do not know it, or among those who are hurt at it? Add, that by most of our pleasant Great, beneficence to men of real worth is considered in the repugnant light of a lawful demand; whereas, their Serving fools has more the air of paying a gaming debt, to say nothing of the favourable circumstance of their being more congenial to them. 
Mr. Mowbray, however, is perfeq: ly sensible, that he owes to yout private interest that success which was due, from the public spirit of the Minister, if he had been capable of any, and has accordingly written to me in the terms of the utmost gratitude to your Lordship, 
To your remarks on pensions I need add nothing here except that while the whole encouragement from the Government to Literature, or to useful talents, hardly .amounts to a .miserable thousand a year, that very Government suffers some hundreds of thousands of the public .money to be extorted from it by the pernicious influence, or the impudent worthlcffnefs of subjects, who never did their country five farthings worth of service, nor are capable of it; which last circumstance is, however, the only apparent reason for some of them thus quartered on it. This fuggestion you will not think exaggerated, if you will yourself be at the pains to cast up all the Pensions, Annuities, Reversions, Sine cures, or, what is next to Sinecures, offices of which the salaries and perquisites 
are’ 


the Marquejs of S o B E r T o N. 197 
are enormously disproportioned to the public Service done for them, with all the various shapeis into which the pillage of the nation is methodically put, and which the Dictionary of La Crufca So emphatically and so julily calls Upan di tradi mento^ the bread of treason: : black bread, for which few are now so fqueamifli, as not to have an ever open stomach. After all, is not that infamous avarice oftener than vanity itself, at the bottom of the rage of such numbers to get a seat where they abundantly prove themselves to have been less tempted by the honour of doing their duty to their country, than by what they project to get by betrarying it? And this, like the chambermaid’s putting into a lottery, they call being in fortune’s way. 
As to that low, beggarly levee fcene which you ' describe, it has something too stiocking in it to be only ridiculous, when one considers that the great offices in this country, with all the numerous train of consequences to its welfare, are villainousty bought and sold among personages so fcandalousty mean, as to descend to an attendance there, and to make circle to some worthiest Minister, whose foie title to superiority over them, is his impudence to presume it, on the strength of court favour, of tenest solely owning to his undertaking the sacrifice of the national interest. 
Who can forbear laughing, on reading occasionally in she public papers, those most important pieces of intelligence, numerous Levies being held by little, trifling mushroom ministers, whom, sofar from not disdaining to attend, a man of any spirit or taste would think himself dishonoured or miserable, if he was condemned to keep no better company? 
This is one of the blessed effe6l: s of that new form of Government, which has crept into exif 
K 
3 
tence 

i 
I I : 
, I I 
t 
'I i 
1. ■ 1 
i f 
iji 
• f 
I t 
f t 
I I 
) 
> I 
: t 
»- ’ 
* i 
'I 
: i 

V 
M 
f 
198 
L Greville, Esq; to 
tence, through the breach of our constitution, in resting the whole power of the state on the ssngle point, not of parliamentary influence over affairs, but of an undue influence over the Parliament itself, in favour of some view opposed to the interest of the nation, and often to that of the Court itself, too avaricious, or too ignorant to see, that in ungratefully pursuing the detriment of that nation to which it was owing all its greatness, it was in faff implicitly seeking its own de stru6tion. 
The sublime projeq; of fleecing the people by Charles the Second, to support the stupid liber tinifra of his court; or of William the Third's coutinental attachments, covereff by the pretext of frustrating these fthemes of dniverfal monarchy, which were by us so devoutly to be wished for in Lewis the Fourteenth, the man on earth the least likely to effectuate so frantic a chimaera; and lastly, in the two late reigns, that System, the most abfutd, the most cruel, the most ruinous for all parties, for everlastingly taking German troops into British pay; Such projects, I say, give you most plainly and most truly the whole foundations of that detested corruption, which, in time, only brought on the national debt to the enormous point at which we now see it, but made of the Sovereign a kind of stave to any Minister, who, on the strength of the interest to carry, by a majority in the House of Commons, those great trustees of the burfal power, that capital court point of draining the country of its clearest treasures, and of plunging it over head and ears in debt, and into wars, which were the false pretext for creating nd eii creasing that debt, might, in every other matter of state, use him like a Negroe, nay worse, like an accomplice in so foul a Scheme. 
By this means the royal authority fell debased 

• \ 
) 
Mara 
199 

S 
CD and dishonoured into the hands of Some private suhje6l, often odious to the Sovereign, but necessary to him in that criminal view, and whose trusty circle of agents dependents, and Subalterns constituted an impudent oligarchy, which received the new and improper denomination of Ministry;, among whom most commonly no one had so\little interest as the Sovereign himself, who was compelled to continue them in his Service while their patron’s power lasted in the House of Commons, which was the foie tenure of it at Court, and reduced the Sovereign, though certainly not without its being originally his own fault, to a difficulty of distinguishing which were his fubje6l: s and which his minister’s. 
The following farce has often my Lord diverted me, not very good naturedly I confess, for the extreme dullness and folly of it; I mean the progress of a political adventurer, or the generatioa. of a Minister out of the corruption of a Patriot. 
A Member, especially of the Lower House, assembles others, lays before them pathetically the grievances of the nation. All he says is unfortunately but too just. Satisfied with the truth of his allegations, and detesting the Minister of whose party they are not; and consequently not in place,. they choose this new opponent for their leader, and list under his banners. Soon his party increases; the public, whose good is the stale \yatch word, and always credulous, though so often cheated, fortifies it with its voice., He is now in pass to gall a Ministry, and Sometimes to overset it. In which last cafe, the Court feels a necessity of purchasing its peace of him; and its gates are Set open on the easiest terms it can make. The stipulation once concluded, in which the good of the nation has not the compliment paid to it of being so much as mentioned, the conqueror fneaks 
K 4 in 
\ 
Ill 
I • 
i I 
. I 
I t 
I 1 
I. I 
i. * 
iii: 
: 
! ■ 1 
: o; 
. 1 ■ 
■ij!' 
I » I I t \ 
.VC 
• { 
1 
; I 
: i 
it 
. j 
L 
f, 
! I 
I I 

1! 
ili 
I I 
00 
L G R E V I L L E, eli to 
really best friends, Ieav« at the door, who might him turn So stiort, if the common : I call these his have the honour of a fate 
This So often 
lie was 
In, and often drops his ing them like footmen be ahonistied at feeing thing was not quite so really best friends, who in common with that of their Sacrificed country, in being left out of the villainous treaty. Those he takes in with him are rather worse off, Smci they stare the infamy of deserting the public cause, an infamy not quite improperly compensated by a post, wstich their eternally lost charaq.er and influence, soon make it so easy to take from them without much ceremony or much consequence. 
nauseous game I have, my Lord, Seen played, that I stould wonder the pub not sick of it, if I did not know it so much more Seldom led by its reason than drivea by its pastons, for which unfortunately the benefit of experience does not seem to be made. But what exceeds all bounds of ridicule is the strut of insolence, the airs of state assumed by the Successful adventurer. And yet in what is it that the most wretched employ of Scribbling in a white limed garret, by the light of a farthing candle, with no Sustenance but a red herring and small beer, is not even an honourable occupation, compared to that of catch penny patriotism?? hang a man, who, to defraud a private fubjefit of his money, is guilty of a single at of forgery of hand : but a man is advanced to the first posts of the kindom, who, to cheat, or to abet the cheating the public of theirs, is guilty of a whole course of forgeries of heart. He will even have cheated it of more than its money, of one of the greatest of all human goods, of its esteem, of which he will have made no better use, than to sell the too credulous people, like steep at a market, while, 
stllier 

the Marquess of Soberton. 
201 
fillier than sheep, they will too often stand to be fleeced, without bleating. 
Read, my Lord, but with attention, our history from Charles the First down to the present period, and you will constantly find Some court point that was, at the Same time, an unnational one; which was felt enough to put this country into a state of defensive war against the court, and against its accomplices, in form of minister or ministers, who sold to the much mistaken Sovereign an assistance, doubly treachefous, in its being at once detrimental to their country and to himself. 
The Marquess d’argenfon has very justly ob fervedj that this new System of government by ministries, has obtained in many parts of Europe, as well as with us. True. But the difference is, that in other countries it is owing to the indolence of despotism; incurs, to the corruption of > liberty i; .while so many members of the Senate,, whose duty it is to consider themselves as the lawful 'judges and comptrollers of the ministry, in dutyibound, not only theirfelves to do no wrong to the nation, but to see that no one else does any, too often fink So low. as theirfelves to take their impulsion from it, and Suffer their votes to be as ' currently canvassed, presumed, and undertaken for, •> as the drudgery of the arrantest staves, whose bodies being venal may be only a misfortune, whereas ' a venal soul can never be less than a guilt. A do ■ over the understanding is a trust unalienable to any mortal,. and especially to such ^ one as can have no reason to pretend to it, > unless to make of it an use pernicious to his ' country. It is even treasonable - to > enstave,, on any account, the dignity and the eminence ’ of parliamentary rank.. As it is, opinions in general are not anticipated from reason but from ‘ interest,. humour, prejudice, cpnnexion, ^ - 
K 5. from 
1 
mi 
1 0 d 
; ■ • 'I 
I, f 
: ■ u 
I. 
! : • I: 
1; : i, 
I ' ■ I I 
: ». 
I II 
hi 
>1. 
I I 
!; • t 
I 
I : 
I • 
'i ' 1: 
: I 
I I 
M., 
.,, 
i 11 
I • i 
i! 
11 
.. r,, 
II : 
d' 1st 
C 

I t 
't 
r ^ 
fi 
I 
■K 
!fi'03 
L G R E VI L L E, FL; to 
from everything, in short, but the one thing needful, a regard for country. 
From this remissness or falstty of too many of the trustees to the public cause, it is, that this originally mushroom power of the ministry has lately gained such a cedar height. The government itself has currently taken the air and form of the System of Tonquin, in which there are two kings, the nominal, or king de jure called the Bua the other the king de fabjo^ called the Civa^ or first rai jiister, who dispatches all affairs, and is the great fasiot'um of the state. 
Many of our late Sovereigns have, in favour of Some unnational point to be carried, against their own clearest interest, most humbly acquiesced in being nothing more under their Minister than what the Roman Consuls were under the emper in the times of Imperial Rome. The public acts were, indeed, still loaded with their names, while they had no more power than what Some of our minister ridden monarchs have had over a Servapt from whom they were obliged to take their orders, before they .could give them; and who, to mend the matter, was not always their own choice; but elected for them, like the Dey of Algiers, by his influence among the mercenar yies. 
Such a place, a place possessed by such a tenure, is, in all conscience, contemptible enough:; but what can you think of the men of rank and fortune, who can, without the excuse of indigence,, be mean enough to hold up his train, and at in quality of his subalterns, abetters, and accomplices, with some ministerial sheep mark upoir them, in form of place or pension, that obviates the qiief tion of Cujum pecus f an Meliboei? a poor mutton headed flock, ready to follow any bell wea there, and jump for interest after any party, whether of court or country. It 
i 
'4. 
the Marquess ^soberton. 203 
Is it not, then, owing to this execrable system, that we now See the nation lie like a carcase almost picked to the bone, the ravens driven away from, which keep croaking at the vultures in poffes fion, who are preying on the miserable leavings? 
Soon, nay, perhaps already, power must go a begging with no one to take it in, it stinks So of the rottenness of the times. Men of less public Spirit than Phocion will be afraid of Phocian’§ fate, who perished for having occasionally taken the helm, in what he stimfelf called the wreck of the State., 
In short,, my Lord, I See no resource for the Salvation of this country, but one, which I represented to my Lord Duke Some years ago, which, he entirely approved, and which nothing but his state of health hindered him from pushing with all his power : This was, a constitutional plan for parliamentary exertion, in a proper manner. Pray heaven it may not be too late! For even the noblest remedy may lose its efficacy and charafiter, by being delaid till the disease shall have turned for death. Every other recourse to oligarchical combinations will most likely be found a paltry and. dangerous palliation, 
I was unlucky enough to state this notion of, mine to Lord Washerley, just to divert myself' ' hearing what I was Sure he would say; nor did he disappoint me. His answer was perfectly in chara<ster.. He Said, be was assured it would not do, the face of the times was So fet against it. For this I heartily forgave, and even pitied him; for the very idea was enough to Sweat him., It is not easy to persuade men of the good to result from efforts of which they feel themselves. incapable. Everything tending to greatness of Spirit is lost upon little minds; they are incapable of strength or ekvation. A Willow will northeast -- 
ver. 
I MI; 
M' 1 

i I • 
-!; I 
I • 
i 1 
III 
I I I 
J " 
: t ( i; 1 t 
Mb 
4. 
I; 
; ' ■ 

pii' 
II 
jib: 
il' 
: : lib 
! ll 
5 
i; 
; 
i.h 
II 
i ■' 
>1 I 
I L 
Hi 
204 
L G R E V I L L t, kli to 
ver be an Oak, nor a Butterfly an Eagle, nor a Trifler a Statesman. 
I shall punqually observe the orders you gave me for making Mrs. Williams a genteel present, for the compliment of keeping her apartments for you against the next races, an offer which I do not wonder at your not accepting. 
To say nothing less than the truth, races, in their present state of amazing stupidity, would be even beneath your scorn, for scorn implies notice, but for the real mischief it does to both the mobs, the little and the great. 
The common people in the country, it robs of much more manly diversions than that of Silly gaping at running horses. It take them off from wrestling, leaping, bowling, throwing the bar, and other rural sports, which render the body robust, and qualify them for exercises of the militia, that only constitutional army of Britain, which, to be effeflive, should, conformably to the original institutes of Nobility, be officered by the men of the first titles and rank in the kingdom, who, if they were in earnest, would soon give it a discipline as formidable as that of the regulars, or standing army, which Springing out of the corruption of the feudal government, after its dissolution, plight almost make that form regretted, with all its train of evils and inconveniences. It has actually enstaved France; but Britain it has hitherto only beggared, which leads at least to sta very. 
But as to the men of fashion, or rank, who have run into a folly So very wretched, that it has not even the excuse of leading to any pleasure which taste would not spurn with disdain, what would it be to me, to you, or to the nation, that this,, or that titled idiot of fortune, should make it his 
justng passion, and court distinction, from so mr 
ferable 
the Marquess of soberton'. 
20< 
Serable a futility, but for the melancholic const deration, that the absurdity of every individual contributes in some measure to form the general mass of worthleffnefs, and helps to establissi a contemptible charaqier of the times? In which view, where men of power and influence are wrongheaded, their private folly may be deemed a public calamity. 
While men of real good sense, and worthiness of character, fensible that attention to business, and to improvement, requires, at intervals, the relief of diversions, but at the same time convinced, that the efltence of the soul consists in the at of thinking, look out for fueh manly amusements as my satisfy that at once noble and agreeable faculty; the little fry of triflers are on the hunt for nothing so much as for such objefits as may furnish them with matter of not thinking; such as cards, races, and the like futilities. 
As to races, the pretext of their being of use to preserve the breed of a very valuable animal, may originally have been just: but I can hardly imagine any one driveller enough to attribute that motive to the present heroes of the turf. They would laugh at any one that would do them the unjust honour of but fufpeo; ing them of it. No. The current system of the rage of bets, is grown the primary consideration, and is nothing better than a vile ingraftment of avarice, on a stupid stock of vanity. The great fporters at the races, have no more in their head the idea of keeping up the breed of horses, than gamblers while they are stripping their bubbles at play, have that of encouraging the manufacturers of cards and dice. 
A plea of much the like validity, was offered in defence of the bear garden, and Hockly in the Hole, importing in substance, that the preservation f the national valour depended on the encouragement 
< r. ( 
! J n 
I M b. 
i i ' h i 
': I j’ 
! '; S * 
.to) 
i C f" I 
! 1 
. j ■ 
t 
I!; ■ 
itt 

r; I 
I! ' 
’: k 
206 
L Greville, E/fy to 
ment given to the noble entertainment of a couple of the lowest wretches, under the name of bruifers, mounting a stage, and heroically fighting at fisty cuffs for the house, that is to say, for the money taken at the door, from Such as could find an amusement in So interesting and so curious a sight; and this, I can assure your, though it may Seem incredible to you, that Some of them were of the highest classes of life. But avarice, in its true chara6fer, of there being nothing so low to which it will not stoop, crept in here too, and produced its bets, which became the principal Sauce of the tastelefs dlverfion. 
A pitiful complaisance, however, to the follies of she great, ere£ied these black guard battles into the dignity of the pugilate of the ancients, with about as much propriety as the races of Newmarket may be compared to the hippodromes, or chariot races of the Circus, before the degenerate times of Rome. And even then the fa: ions of the various colours of the charioteers liveries turned' shore upon the humour of opposition than upon the vile admixture of any pecuniary considerations; the laying bets being left, with great propriety, toi she dregs of the people. 
The low nonsense of these boxin^ fmatches grew, however, to Such a pitch, and. was attended; with so many bad consequences, especially that of ' railing no Spirit so eminently as the Spirit of highwaymen and footpads, that the legissature intert fered to put it down; nor would it be very honourable to the British valour to suppose that it has Suffered in the least shy the Suppression. 
Not that by this I would insinuate any wish of mine, that the races, with all their train of inconveniences and evils, should under go the like fate: let them rather die of themselves, die of the dis eale the most common and most fatal to fikh entertainments, 
the Marquess of sobirton. 207 
tertainments, their own rank intrinsic dulness and insipidity. 
besides, my Lord, Such an intervention might alarm the whole nation of the Dunces, for their inestimable privilege of worthlesthefs. To them it would have an air of persecution for their religion of bagatelle, that would only make them cleave to it the closer. Unfortunately, too, for them, they have to plead the examples of feme men of very good sense, who have indulged themselves in this amusement; but then those idiots never stand to confider the distindlion between throwing Some trifling into life, and one’s whole life into trifling. A man that would never let hira felf down to play the fool, would neither be the happiest nor the wifest man in the world. a mufements, as amusements, are even necessary, but it is only for fools to exalt them into occupations, on the plan of Seeking in them a diverston which they are condemned never to find, from their never having had serious employment, without which the word itself, Diversion, is an absurdity. Who can be diverted that has not had business from which to be diverted? Or will any one call the dreary waste of a fool’s life diversion r And yet if you was to take from them their horses, dogs, dice, cards, dress, loungings at a court, fmali talk, eleftioneering vanity, in stiort, all the futilities of false taste, of silly ostentation, and mean avarice, what would you leave them, but an uncomfortable desert of the head and heart, in which they would lose themselves? The vast dominions of dul nefs are their native country, out of which they would pine like the Swiss with their Hemjveb., A Greenlander would as soon renounce the eternal ice of the Pole; a Negroe the Suffocating heats ol the Line; and Arab his barren Sands; a Hottentot his gilts and garbage,, as a fool his stupid 
■<r 
fti 

<' I 
i ', : 
t ' 
I; 
i’ : 
: i ■ ^ 
I 
‘I. b 
I, '. J 
I I 
Cl( ( 
'
ii 
.•bb': 
> 1 
I • I > 
■flil'! 

•itei: 

O; '- 
ilc 
di ' 
O' I MI 

i 
iif 
Pi" 
'ih 
I 
los L greville, 5/^; to 
pid nonsense, and his ridiculous conneffions of folly. Constitutionally unsusceptible of great views, they constantly prefer the ignoble ease of worthlesthefs to that heroic fatisfaflion which is to be found in public utility, the only genuine parent of public esteem, and can sit down contented with the infamy of never being So much as thought of, or named, by judges of merit, for any place of trull or eminence, which, however, I must own, ^ is not unfrequeutly the cause of their being chosen into one by a Minister, for his Service, and for the misfortune of their country. 
Another curse which attends them, is, that in the truly tame and faint charafier of mediocrity, being generally destitute of all original spirit, they are condemned for life to a servile instinct of imitation, from which, though vainly fond of distin guilhing themselves, they dare to do nothing but what they see others do. This alone would make it impossible for them to be great men, while they congenially take one another for models, and are contagioussy good for nothing. Thence so many men of rank continue grovelling all their lives. If their private influence, or the public misfortune, puts power or trust into their hands, incapable of railing themselves to an equality with their offices, they bring those offices down to their own level, and render them as contemptible as the.oj felves. 
Some again there are, whose natural levity forbidding them any resting place, they are for ever Subject to wandering fits, like the Norway rates, and wishing to be anywhere but just where they are: fidgetting about, light as feathers, to the sport of every idle unmeaning gust of fancy, now wafted over Sea, now • t lo wn about town and country, till they take ground for ever. 
Such, or the like characters, the great point, 
. \ 


tfs o/soberton. 
209 
and not resemble them, ef example is rather a living one would wilh not to be. 
jny Lord, is to pity pecially while their lesson of everything 
I am very fensible to the honour you do me of approving and even adopting my idea of the benefit, which muss obvioussy result from occasionally treating, in letters to intimate friends, of fubjedis, as they, occur to you. Among my political reveries there is hardly any that ssrikes me in a more favourable light, than that of its being made a ssand ing order of the Cabinet council, that every Officer of the State, in a great employ, and especially our Minissers at foreign Courts, ssiould annually give in, upon honour, his opinion on the public affairs, not only of his own department, but in general of the whole State. Such )a pradfice might serve at once to give a satisfactory idea of the talents and'abilities of the persons employed, and often occasionally to contribute useful lights to the government itself. You will, perhaps, object that Some might elude this ordinance by employing Secretaries, or Writers for them. True; but even the merit of making a good choice of such would not be a Small one. It would also serve to kindle a noble emulation, and excite many to acquire talents which they now see they may as well do without, or indeed better, considering the umbrage and offence taken by little people in power at any eminence of that kind. Such an inssitute, combined with the revival of feledling young Gentlemen of the greatess hopes from our Universities, to be bred in foreign parts, for public employment, might possibly ressore to this nation its ancient character of breeding great men so' the cabinet as well as for the field, or at leass preserve it from the ssiame and damage of 
being Served by the meanest and most disqualified 
personages. 
1; i ■ • T ■ 
,.. ( I. i ' ■ 
Cil 
. t 
'I 
.! : • I 
I ' 
1. 
». 
! .‘r - 
• 
. 1 
. ►. 
'f I 
f • 
r 

■.f W : 
'"•‘ul. <■ .»?■,; » 
^ V 
‘ ' • t 
* 
I. ' 
T' 
'I'iii 
r; I 
; ?■ ■• 
h! 
! ' ■ : 0 1 
rim 


210 
L G R E V I L L E, Esq; to 
personages. Ambassadors that cannot Speak, and Secretaries of State that cannot write. 
I come now, my Lord, and I presume you will think it high time, to that capital part of your letter which acquaints me of your new paleon for Miss Maynwaring, and of your procedure on it, with her answer. 
I am as far from the injustice of not distinguilh ing in your favour between those things you cannot help, and those you can, as I am from the perfidiousness to you of soothing and encouraging you to persevere in what you do yourself the honour of confessing to be wrong. 
I do not, then, at all blame you for that weakness which is nothing but what you have in common with the rest of mankind, of being momentarily Subdued by a Superior attraction, real or imaginary. But, I own, I should expert from the Marquess of soberton’s power of reason such a victorious effort as would distinguish him from the multitude, who on the like occasion are irrecoverably hurried away. Such an effort as would restore him to all his virtii^, with only the greater lustre for his having triumphed over a passion which, circumstanced as you are, is So dangerous an enemy to it. 
I say circumstanced as you are, because I fairly own, that but for your engagement to Lady Harriet, which, for many reasons well known to your Lordship, is gone too far to be retradled with honour, I would not have a Single reason to objest to a choice that would so nobly justify any Sacrifice you could make to it. I say nothing of that beauty of her’s, which, to judge of it by its effeq: on your Lordship, must be great indeed; but considering only that Simplicity of principle, that clearness of Spirit, with which she has treated 
your offer, I am ready to allow that there can be 
no 
the Marquess ossober TONNE. 
II 
BO fortune or rank to which she is not at least e qual, especially if you take into the account the mediocrity of her condition, which only exalts her the more. Clara on a throne, could not be more intririiically majestic, than in her procedure towards you. Here the dignity is all her own. Her strict honour, while it is fatal to your love, justifies, at least, your choice, which to a mind so noble as your’s must be some consolation, and will, I hope, prove a not unprofitable incentive to imitation. 
For, after all, not to flatter yourself, have you laid stress enough on your engagement to Lady Harriet? (old Clara, looking on it very justly as having proceeded too far to be retracted with honour, receive your addresses in any other light than those of a virtually married man? You may observe I say nothing of her particular situation with refpeq: to Lady Harriet, which might, however, have had its share in her determination. 
In your defistence then, from your pursuit, the more hopeless the better for you, as it is an argument the more for your defistence. You obtain the double good of proving your manly power over yourself, and of purchasing, though with the privation of a great pleasure, an escape from a pain that must over balance it, if the duration of one may be Set against the momentary excels of the other. For, after all, your success with Clara could never have bred more than a temporary suspension of your remorse for your treatment of that most worthy, and most amiable Lady Harriet, whose consent to give up her claim to you, considering her unquestionable and innocent love for you', would only have redoubled your guilt toward her. That compunction then would, to^one of your sensibility, have 
been 
1 
;! 1 I 
1 
i; i i 
I! 
■ » 
hi 
• I 
ir 
'I 
I t 
, I 
: II 
h 
f; 
212 
L Greville, bf<jy do 
been a perrennial fountain of bitterness, in which the torch of love would have run a great risque of being cruelly extinguished • being more unjust than the passions you would perhaps have, at the best tacitly, made Clara accountable to you for the failure of which yo’u would yourself have Seduced her into the being your accomplice. You would, and not quite without reason, suspect her of having yielded to your proposals upon other motives than those of love. Then would she, in your esteem, fink into the ordinary class of women, especially of her pretentions as to fortune and condition, to whom the advantages of Such a match would have been an invincible temptation not toex.a mine over scrupulousty the objections to it. But, above all, you would have found it difficult to reconcile yourself to yourself. Your deliverance, then, by clara’s noble procedure fromfo lasting a torment to you, as your own just reflections would have been, is perhaps not a less happiness than your accom plistiing your purposes with her, as great a bliss as I stiould readily own that must have been, but for that poison of felf reproach, which it might indeed deaden for a while, but never entirely kill. Soon would it recover its power to prove to you, that a pleasure, necessarily stiort lived, when purchased at the expense of honour, is not the least of bargains for a long repentance, inevitably consequential to the weakness of not having enough respected so sacred a principle. 
Nor think, my Lord, that in this I am crudely and even inhumanly taxing you with a breach of honour. No. I am rather congratulating you on your happiness, in having made such a worthy choice in the person of Clara, as has defended you from that precipice, defended you against yourself. I have before allowed, and very justly allowed, 
that such weaknesses are a tribute which the great 
ess 
the Marquess 0/ Soberton. 213 
eft of men are liable to pay to human nature, insomuch that the first steps are absolutely not in their power, and those first steps too often insensibly betray them into ulterior ones, which consummate their fall. You have been evidently in the first cafe, and very fortunately are not in the Second : so that, now to proceed, while you have So fair an opening for retreat, would be in you a determinate will to at against your own sense of right, which is what'i do not in the least fear for you. It is only for weak minds, like weak constitutions, not to expel the poison they have once imbibed: but your established Superiority to that class, does not leave you that excuse. 
I do not then hope too much from you. For as to that character of invincibility, which the modern tragedy writers, and Novelists, have, in their crazy fancy, bestowed upon the pastion of Love, and of which that numbing frigidity, with which they in general treat of it, proves that they never knew what Love was, nothing is more false, especially with regard to great men. Heroes, you may find in history, have not been more exempt than others, from a pastion which, of all the human pastlons, has the most to say for itself. You will find too, that Some have gone great lengths of inconsiderateness and folly, for the objects of their attachment; but you will find few or none of them, Such desperately true loiyers as to put themselves theatrically to death with the dagger or bowl, merely for being crojfed in fove. You may indeed, nov and then, read in our new’s papers of a lovelorn chamber maid applying for relief to her garter, or a slighted apprentice taking the lover’s leap into the next pond; but rarely of any above their rank of life, or their Size of understanding, playing the fool in that manner. Nor can there be a truer, though So 
trite 
II 
I j' I 
I 
1 
4 
{! 

11 
i »! 
•; i 
* M r 

f; 
': I 
!! 
; I 
ill! 
0 
! I 
k I 

R ' 
i t 
LI 
214 L Greville, L; to 
trite a proverb, than that the bell rarely tolls for those who die of love. The bills of mortality do not So much as admit it among the diseases which “flesh is heir to.” All this I mention, my Lord, you may eaflly perceive, not most certainly, as Suppossng you in the case of Such nonsense, but merely to take from you any Scruple about an extra ordinarinefs of procedure in your fufferirig So many Superior conflderations, but especially that of honour, to overcome a passion, in which, without very Sufficient reasons for breaking its hold, I readily admit that constancy is even a virtue. 
If tragedy and romance dealt more on truth, and consequently more in nature, or if they paid their court more to the virtues than to the weak neflfes of mankind, they would, oftener than they do exemplarily represent, in the most amiable, and in the most encouraging light, Such characters as do perhaps more honour to humankind, in their conquest over violent passions, than in that total exemption from them, which is much more frequently the effet of imbecility, than of a per fe6fion, at least too rare among mere mortals, to afford hopes of imitation. I should, for example, imagine, that the continency of a Scipio, would’ be a subject:, if handled by a real genius, to the full as interesting, and much more edifying than that of Anthony lossng the world for love, or rather for a luxurious attachment, for of love he had not virtue enough to be susceptible. And by the by, well considered, what does the story 'of his amours with Cleopatra present, but that of one of the most detestable, profligate, and withal stupid cullies, whose name ever fouled the pages of history, ruining himself for an abandoned woman, to whom the title of Queen was, but a reproach the more, notorious only for pride without honour, intrigues without love, prodigality without 
taste. 
A V AAA 
I 
5 
(Is 
» 
i I 
t 
it 
I, 
, » uiuacxer, in Short, Somewhat of the air and hue of his own, in which what brilliancy there ever appeared was that of a jet black? Could then the fall of the mean murderer of Tully, of execrable conspirator with Caesar against the liberty of his country, provoke any Sentiment, but that of a regret of his not having expired on a gibbet, or of his not having lain broken alive on a wheel? I know this is di grefllve, but I am carried away by my indignation, on my recollection of his catastrophe having been too tenderly treated, on the theatre by some excellent "authors. I allow;, however, that some poetical justice there was in the historical truth of things, since he was brought to his death, tho’ a death not equal to his crimes, by one of his own gang, that cowardly and cruel in cold blood, Augustus, whose Successes' as they are called, were the ruin not only of his own family, which would indeed have been nothing more than a just visitation, but of the greatest repulic, that with so many vices rendered everything relative to it interesting in its favour, till finking into slavery, 'its annals, after that period, became of ' as little account or estimation as the sessions papers of the Old bailey; the reproach of humanity, the disgrace of history, and the Scorn of curiosity. 
But that by the by. It may, however, without any flattery to humankind, be averred, that the cure of Love, conquered by virtue, is not So extremely rare, as Poets, Novelists, and Romance writers would persuade us, in their records of fancy and fhstion. The real truth is, that this passion, with all its arbitrary power, is not always invincible, especially by great characters; to represent.it otherwise is not only injurious but disheartening 
2l6 
ili 
t; 
*,. 
, I 
• h, 
I ''. 
I ‘ 
• I 
.» 
! ♦: 
> ' I 
I >> I 
(IN 
; I 4 
i II I, i:, ' 
'' I ' I 
: 
I. 
: 1 I I 
>■', 
: { : 
LI 
i 
! 
L Greville, ejq\ c. 
heartening to human reason. The statuary, who exhibited the man overcoming the lion, if he even granted more to invention than, to matter of faff, furnished at least to mankind an encouragement to try for the victory, which may Sometimes be gained with presuming, but never by an abjest despair of it. 
Hitherto, my Lord, you have a clear right to treat this incident as nothing more than the greatest men, when they are not enough on their guard : but that captivity needs not be lasting; a noble exertion of manly resolution will easily, and with a good grace, free you from chains, injurious to reason and to honour. 
I say nothing to you of the reparation to Lady Harriet by your just return to her, nor of the respect you might think due to the memory of a lender mother, who So pashonately wished this match into which she engaged you; I lay even no stress on the regard you owe to yourself, to your plighted honour, and especially to the happiness of a young Lady, to whom a desertion would be so cruel an indignity, because T am but too fensible that love is not to be commanded by any respeds, and flies with disdain from everything that has an air of tie or constraint. Liberty is its very essence; it will Sometimes, indeed, endure to be expelled, by the powers of reason and virtue, but never to be compelled into posteflion. This point, then, is too tender, too delicate, too much dependent on yourself, for me to presume or wish to touch upon it. Whatever resolution you may take, be the merit of it all your own. You have in your breast the most authoritative of all monitors. Consult that sacred oracle, your heart. 
I am, my Lord, c. 
Lancelot Greville. 
LET. 
[ 217 ] 
LETTER 
Lbe Marquess of Soberton to launcelot 
Greville, ejo'y 
My ever honoured Friend, 
Peterjham, 
I Would not Suffer you to remain a moment longer than I could help it, under any incertainty as to my resolution and procedure, in consequence of my disastrous pastion, and stiall, therefore in this letter confine myself to that object alone, leaving all other matters to future notice. 
After that I had received clara’s letter, I Avaited near three days before I could well determine what to do. At length, urged by the violence of my sentiments, I could think of nothing better than to try to obtain one more audience from Clara, in which I proposed to exert my utmost efforts of argument and persuasion to induce her to accept my offer : as little of hope, then, as the design of this step presented, I took it nevertheless. 
I went to Mrs. buckley’s, who, I found, was only denied; but as to Clara, stie had absolutely, the day after (he had Sent me her answer, removed from Mrs. buckley’s, without leaving any dire6lion or trace to where she was gone. Mrs. Buckley, I might very well suppose, knew: but it was not through her, I could hope any information. Without ever having come to any explanation in form, I was perfectly clear as to the unfavorablenefs of her sentiments to my desires. 
In the perplexity of Spirit, caused to me by this news of clara’s removal, I, immediately, though not without confusion, not without reluctance, drove to Lady harriet’s in town, where I wished, and yet dreaded to have my doubts cleared up, as to the disappearing of Clara in that manner, and at that junifiure. Lady Har 
Vol. III L riet 

11 ■! 
< i I 
Tl:;, : 
i.li'fh 
S' ’ i : 
i 
I •. !•' 
'•; ’ * I ‘ 
liits i ^ 
'.tc: 
if' 
I, I < ‘ I 1 
: Ii!! 
11'!!!! 
n, 
b it. 
’S T ^ 
U *•• : 
: 'ld l''‘f 
V! si f);, 1 
: !d 
dbuibi ■ 1. ■ • 

I 
f : 
fr.: 
I'M I 
t 
I; ■ I ■ " ■ 
/! 'll’: 
■iilc 
I : 
V 

'•r. 
11 
te - 

j 
I I 
lit 
* 1 
i!! 

ri: 
l l’ 
ic 
C 
O';. ' 

1 
"I i 1 > 
, ' I 
» ■ i 
{ I 
I 
; n 
1 I 
I; i 
O 
i8 
The Mqrqnefs o ^ S o B E R T o N 
riet did not receive me with her usual cheerfulness, which, in the natural conscioufnefs of guilt, I instantly ascribed to Some intimation, I will not say directly from Clara, for I did her discretion and honour too much justice to suspect her of any ill office of that kind, but from Some quarter or other, of what had pasted against the regard I owed to Lady Harriet. 
I was mistaken. Nothing of that nature had transpired, so as to come to her knowledge. The little cloud I found on her countenance, and which was presently dissipated, proceeded from nothing but her fenssbility to a short note, which stie had just before received from Clara, containing nothing more than a tender and fuccindt excuse for declining to take leave in form, for a journey into the country, which a hidden emergency required, and which she did not specify. Nor did Lady harriet’s imagination lead her to any conjecture, but that of some family concern, which might render clara’s presence necessary, or at least important, so that she laid no farther stress on it. 
It was not so with me; for I could plainly, and with great felf reproach, difeern, that Clara had had recourse to this step, not out of any fear of me, for with one of my charadfer that was quite out of the question; nor even out of any appre henston of my visits or assiduities being more frequent to her than she could have wished, for her own .quiet, .or Lady harriet’s, as she could not but be fenstble, that one ssngle express prohibition of them would have rid her of Such importunity; but purely out of her candour and good nature to deliver me, by that decisivenefs of conduct, from the cruelty of incertainty, as it is the mixture of hope with dessre that creates and continues the torture. Possbly too she might, in her spirit of friendship, think she was leavingjby her absence, the fairer 
'st eld 


4 
to L G R E V I L L £, Esq 21 gr 
field for the justice of Lady harriet’s reclaimer. 
But whatever were her motives, and I am very sure, that to know her, and not ascribe to her, not the most virtuous and the most laudable ones, would be the height of injustice, my vexation, my Sorrow for my having disturbed her peace and thus driven her out of her proposed course, made it very difficult to reconcile myself to myself. 
And here, my dear friend, do not let me make a parade to you of a false virtue; truth is to me above everything : for Suffer it or not, honour, admit it or not, duty, murmur or not my heart, I must say, that if I had Seen the least glimpse of an overture of succeeding with the invincible Clara, I should have Sacrificed every consideration to my passion for her. I could Sooner have parted with my life than with any the least shadow of a hope of obtaining, in the possession of her, the supreme end of all my wishes, of all my desires. I had already a6lually given up more than my life, my honour, in the proposals I had made to her, and which, for that very reason, were, to my shame I confess it, unworthy of So pure, so celestial a character; my passion, in short, burnt too fiercely to be extinguished by anything but utter despair, and I presume, there is no passion, except in idiots, that can survive hope. It is in that light tl at it may, without a paradox, be Said, that what re -- doubled my esteem for Clara, lessened my love, by placing her at a height So much above my reach, that not to have given over the pursuit was only tempting the renewal of the fable o" the embraced clouds. It is not, then, to me that the honours of the triumph are due, but to Clara I have not to boast of a passion vanquished by my own reason, but by her virtue and my despair. 
All these thoughts did not instantly occur to me during my stay with Lady Harriet, which my 
L 2 vexaiton 
t • 
I ■ 1' 
I, L 
I ' ‘ : 
i o 
I ‘ 1 
iii 
, 
I 
I 111 
!! f 
I 
i J 
1 
t; 
< i ' 
''Ti 
• I ■. ' 
•, t : : ‘ 
! ( :. 

, 11 

'lii!!! 

I 
.1' .1 
M I! 
! ii,,! fh 
: !i 
w I ’ 
i’ll'' Ii'lh' 
''.i i M 
I.( 
'1 I! : 
fili' 'i ( 
i, it 
Ili i 
.till I' ' 
L ils: : 

The Marquess of Soberton 
vexation obliged me to make as short as it well could: but in the first moments of Solitude, I came to a clear explanation with myself, on the nature of my Situation. clara’s cool and resolute procedure, combined with my perfect convi6tion of her Superiority to all Suspicion of coquetry or art, had Satisfied me of what I had not to expe6t from her. 
I had, then, a barbed arrow to pluck forth from my breast, which I was Sure would tear my vitals in the attempt. Do not let me, my worthy friend, give your fensibility the pain of a minute description of the pangs it cost me, of the tortures I endured, before I could, in the agonies of my des pair, pronounce to my desires, the Sentence of death. They were criminal, myself their Judge, though too much their accomplice not to deserve to Suffer, as I afilually did, little short of death with them. 
Behold me, then, restored to freedom j but purchased at how dear a rate! I shudder yet to think of it! still there was another piece of justice remaining for me to execute. A reparation to Lady Harriet, only the more her right, for her not so much as fuspefiling that I owed it to her. Nothing is more true than that in the midst of all my jage of pashon for Clara, I had never once had •the barbarity to impute to Lady Harriet as matter of complaint from me, whatever bar my situation with her might oppose to my success with Clara. Nor do I by this mean, with a coxcomb’s presumption, that that bar was the only one, for I have no sort of reason to think I had made any sort of impreshon on clara’s heart. However, I was sofar from looking on Lady Harriet with an evil eye on the account of her being an impediment to my designs, that I was constantly in my inward Sentiments for her proving to mystlf, 
that 
r 
to L G R E V I L L E, Esq', 
221 

that though there may be no loving more than one at once, there is a greater latitude for esteem, as mine was, I am Sure, fairly divided between herself and Clara. It was indeed, precisely on that Solid and unalterable foundation of esteem, that it became the easter for me to resume, even with greater force, that tender regard for Lady Harriet, which I had once taken for love, and which perhaps was love, though not in so violent a degree of ardour as that with which Clara had inspired me. The Sentiments I had had for Lady Harriet, had more of the nature of a lambent harmless flame; but my pastion for Clara, more the character of a fierce fire, that had burnt reason, duty, and even honour itself out of doors. 
On this occasion, then, I have called myself to a strifit account; and believe me, my dear friend, could I, on the stri<stest Scrutiny into the deepest recesses of my heart, have found lurking at the bottom of it so mean. So Selfisti a view as that of 
filling the uncomforrab!^^ it, by my 
failure of success with Clara, with a resumption of my addresses to Lady Harriet, I honour, I esteem and I hope I may now say, I love her too much to make of her nothing more than a reserve, or resource, in the cafe of another’s refusal. Instead of the indignity to her of such a motive of procedure i n me, my whole thoughts, my whole soul are intent on nothing so much as on entitling myself to her forgiveness of that involuntary crime, by the sincerity and innocence of my future con du^. There may be characters infernalj enough to hate where they offend; but to me the injuries, secret or not, which I had done to Lady Harriet, are to me but an indearment of her the more. Before, I had only Amply an engagement to fulfil, I have now a breach of it to repair. Besides, let me not dissemble with myself or you, it is not easy 
L 3 to 
'hr 
: II ' 
'II ^ if 
i]! 

111- 
H 
l,, 
; II 
; d. 
.' 1 ' II 
'is 
i!.! 
I • 

.i. I < I 
bids 
''IL,! 
i' 

II 

f ' ■ 
. i ■ 
■ C! 
ibi 
ib; 
■'ii ‘ 
• .1 I 
I, L I I' 
rii'i' 
L; !■!' 
i 
idi'ii 
i' I. ■ 
I ■, 
bl: ir: 

i 
n: 
'j 
b 
t, 
II ' 
hi 
I!.' 
li 

t 
I 
: I 
I I !i I 
1 
, 1': 
’ I 
‘ I 
■ji i 
L I 
b I 
! i 
!i 
II 
O 1 
The Marquess <ysoberton 
to conceive how much Lady Harriet has gained of advantage in my opinion, and even of loveliness in my eyes, by the consideration of that friendship with which she could inspire so admirable a judge of worth as Clara. There must be in her own chara6ier fomerhing extremely engaging and attractive to live with her, as, indeed, I always judged from what I myself could discern of her; but clara’s choice is to me a powerful confirmation. 
I shall also have gained by that failure, which I own it was no merit of mine, that it was not entirely consummated, a benefit, which is not a little one, that of an experience of ray weakness, which will for ever henceforward keep me in a Salutary diffidence of myself, and on a thorough guard against another surprise of this kind, which, by the by, I have not greatly to fear. There are not many Claras in the world. 
I am, however, sensible, that in thus returning under the banners which I had — 
deserted, I sin against all the laws of romance; according to which, though inconstancy is not approved, the best reparation for it, that of returning to the first attachment, is as little the praciice; but leaving that pleasant statute of the love code to its proper authority in the imaginary Spaces of fiction and chimaera, I am not in the least afraid of subitiitting this recovery pf my false step, to the decisions of Reason and even of Love. The restoration of a lost heart to its right owner is the only atonement I can now make, and I arn but too happy, and more lo, I am sure, than I deserve, in that a of justice being as yet in my power. 
In this Spirit it is, then, that I propose immediately to fet about hastening the accomplishment of my engagement to Lady Harriet. I know, that her family passionately wishes it, and I would fain 
hatter 
VA .* 4 

to L Greville, ejqt^ 
223 
flatter myself that the pressing it will not be entirely disagreeable to herself. The more reason I have to think So, I feel myself the more guilty, and the more obliged, in honour to devote the rest of my life to the making her’s happy, and on that happiness to build my own. 
But then that angel Clara! nay, do not be a larmed, I cannot, it i true, mention her name without emotion, but it is most certainly not the emotion of love. It is rather wnth such a rapture of zeal mixed with awe as one would speak of a superhuman being. She is gone. But where? That I shall soon, I hope, learn, for my purpose of fair amends to her for any disturbance I have given to her. Wherever she goes, my constant good wishes, joined with the purest intentions for her service, shall pursue her. My love has yielded its place to an eternal friendship: I look on her family as mine: it shall have as much the benefit of my wist to have been honourably united to it, 
as it would have had of the deed itself. 
I had naturally, you may be Sure, made some inquiries about her relations: nothing could be more favourable to my views: you have already been apprised of Mrs. buckley’s transcendent worth: Her nephew, Mr. Mellefont, married to clara’s elder lister, is a Clergyman of an excellent cha rafiter; in short, one would imagine, that merit ran in a rich vein through the whole family, like the orestreak in a mine. Most luckily it is, just at this junoiure, in my power to give Mr. Mellefont, who, I am told, has a growing family, a demonstration of my good will to all who are related to Clara. The Duke has given me the presentation, at my disposal, of the living of well borough: it brings in near seven hundred a year, which, even every other consideration a part, I do pot find that I could bestow better than on so wor 
L 4 
thy 

11 
o o 
4 
>/ 
1 
thy a man. Nor is this all; So far as my influence jfhail ever extend, I will have my eye on him, for any preferment or for any advantages it will be pos sible for me to procure to him and to his. These overtures of Service, actual and intended, I Shall, through Mrs. Buckley, render, I hope, acceptable to him both in the propriety of the manner, and in the purity of its motive. 
As to Clara herself, my marks of friendship shall be as boundless as my esteem. With what I know of Lady harriet’s generosity, and especially of her difpositions towards her, I have not the least doubt of her being even thankful to me, for the proposal of her making, in the form of a wedding favour, a present to Clara of her jewels, as those of the duch efs will be full Sufficient for herself. These clara’s delicacy will engage her to receive with less repugnance from Lady Harriet than from me; who do not, however, mean that they shall acquit me to her. I shall, of myself, join to them the gift of that neat fnug box of mine in Surry, with the grounds round it, which may be about two hundred and forty pounds a year : but of this donation, 1 must also entreat Mrs. Buckley to undertake the making the acceptance agreeable to Clara, in its true light of an homage paid by the purest friendship to the mostperfedt worth. It would be hard, indeed, if vice engrossed So exclusively all rewards as not to leave any for virtue. 
Meanwhile, I have not any fear of your imputing this account I am giving you of my intentions, to any vain ostentation or parade: you will castly see my drift in it is to recover what of your esteem I may have justly forfeited by my weakness, and to make you Some amends for the pain that weakness was but the more likely to give you, for your having laid the foundation of a stronger constitution of mind than what such a terrible falling. 
to L greville, 22$ 
ling off has betrayed. Remember, I can never be reconciled to myself, till I have your approbation for my Sandlion. 
Yours, c. 
soberton. 
I 
1 
b 
LETTER 
Lancelot Greville, Efq‘, to the Marquess of 
soberton. 
at -..^ Gloucejierjhire. 
My Lord Marquefsy 
YO U have recovered your fall with Such a Superiority of Spirit, that it is a question whether you could have stood fast with more dignity. It is without any compliment, which you know me uncapable of ussng with you, or indeed with any one, that I may venture to assure you, that you have given to that untoward accident of a passion, only unjustifiable by your Situation of a prior engagement, an issue worthy of yourself; you have rescued your honour out of jeopardy, and turned your defeat to a triumph only the more a triumph for your renouncing your claim to it. ^ 
Your difpolitions towards Clara and her family’ are truly noble, and strongly prove to me your complete vifilory over any little acrimony natural to be felt on the disappointment of desires So ardent as yours; they prove you recovered, without any, danger of a relapse. 
But especially let me congratulate you on your return tp your engagement with Lady Harriet, who so much deserves your love, and who ha given so many proofs of her sincere affection. for you. What offers did she not refuse, on your acl 
5 ' count 
s 

, I 
226 
Mrs. B U C K L E Y 
count, even before matters were So much advanced as they have been since?? as fly is, with all the advantages of blooming youth, of beauty, of fortune, of education, and especially of excellent sense and chara6ter, I do not hazard much in bespeaking for you the most exalted happiness, in the form of the most indispensable duty; that of keeping faith with that amiable and all accomplished i^dy. 
It is with that auspicious presage that I conclude, and am 
Yours, c. 
Lancelot Greville. 
y * I : 
'I 
LETTER XXXI 
Mrs. Buckley, to Mr. Mellefont. 
Dear nephew London, 
Prepare soon to receive your fair fugitive stster., But for what a fugitive? For Love? No. Guess again. For honour? Now you come nearer the matter. But let me explain myself, after which I shall deliver the pen to L lara, who is, at this moment, with me, in Lady proffer’s closet, in the city, dated from which you receive this letter. Leave her, then, while I am writing to you a whole Iliad, to amuse herself with reading the last new play. But where is Lady Proffer? Patience, and I will tell you. She is at this instant as busy as you can imagine, in preparations for her journey into the country, a month, at least. Sooner than she originally proposed, for the sake of clara’s company, who is in a hurry to leave town, and to 
go 
to Mr. Mellefont. 
227 
A 
J t 
1 

go down to you, for a reason which will come in course. 
No Sooner had she received the Marquess of soberton’s declaration, which, as I wrote you before, I had long, not without reason, anticipated, and which, I assure you, gave her infinite pain, on Lady harriet’s account,, than merely from the dio: ates of her own heart, she Sent him, in the politest terms, the most peremptory denial: after which she had the impudence to ask me if I approved her conduct, as if it was possible not to worship her for it'. To confess the truth, I had done her, for Some time, the injustice to be in pain for her while I saw her,, with so much facility and unreferve, deliver herself up to the danger of Lord soberton’s distinctions and assiduities, whose great and undoubted merit made me tremble for her, and, indeed, for himself. I knew him, irrevocably engaged in honour to Lady Harriet, or but. for that invincible bar there is not, as I conceive, in Europe, that match I should have been better pleased with than between Clara and him. he is, to do him no more than justice, a most worthy, a most amiable character, independent of his title and fortune, which I am very clear are, in her delicacy of thinking, less a temptation than ' an objecfion : • matter rather of apology than of boast to her. The worst that can be said of; him,, IS, that on this occasion, a passion foo an object the likeliest in the world to create and even to justify a violent one, be this said without the least partiality to Clara, hurried him beyond the bounds of; duty, and compelled him to take a step, 'in which,., he was too worthy, too refpeclable a characler,, in short, not to deserve the happiness be met with, of being,, refused where it would; have been death,. both, to his honour and to her’s to have been accepted. 

As it has happened,, it vas reserved for 
clara’s 
if! 
r 
1 
I \ 
i I 
I! 
11 ' 
'■ I 
■ 
\ ■ 
it. 
i ‘ 
II ' I 
f! 
228 
Mrs. B u 
C K L E Y 
clara’s magnanimity not only to Save him from himself, but to give him withal the consolation of finding, that since he was to fall into such an error, it was Somewhat mitigated by the dignity of a choice that was to preserve him from its being irreparable : one involuntary error, in short, compensated by a thousand virtues. 
It was then on a strong presumption of the mar quefs’s probity, that Clara, founding a hope of what I am periiiaded she stncerely wishes, his return to Lady Harriet, started, of herself, the idea of confirming, by her immediate absence, the de cifiveness of her answer. But to this she added a 
reason, which I confess would never have come into my head, and which yet is not absolutely without its weight. Of the two cafes she concluded one must be the consequence, that the Marquess would not refiime his engagement to Lady Harriet, or that he would; but that in either Supposition, it was clearly right for her to quit the Scene; on which, if she staid, on his continuing his injustice to Lady Harriet, Suspicions might arise of her designedly hovering and playing a stale game of duplicity, or of attradfion by repulses. On the other hand, if, as she rather hoped, wished, and believed, he should come to that conclusion, to which he was bound by every tie of honour and duty, Lady Harriet would infallibly give her an invitation, which she could not easily elude by any other excuse than that of a great distance, to assist at her nuptials, which, for any objection she had to them, she could see with no Sentiment but that of a Sincere 
a ceremony, 
•/ ^ 
joy, on her friend’s account: but then she imagined, that after what had pasted between Lord Soberton and her, there might appear in her being present at them, a kind of air of bravade to him, 
which 
I) 
Mr 
12.2^ 
which was an infuk neither in her nature, nor indeed deserved from her by his Lordship. 
To this resolution then of clara’s, I concurred, with no repugnance, but that of parting frona so sweet a companion; especially too, as I was fenss ble that her original intention was to go down to you, in the course of the Summer. But as this removal was, by the circumstance, required, for obvious reasons, to be immediate, i thought she could not do better than to accept Lady proffer’s pressing invitation to stay a few days with her in the city, where she might pafs as much for being gone into the country, as if she was a hundred miles off, and where she might, in the meanwhile, make her difpositions for effectively Setting out on the journey. But Lady Proffer was no sooner acquainted of this intention of her’s to proceed for Lancashire, than, ever ready to Seize an occaston of service, she proposed to take her down with her herself, and deliver her to you, as safe and as well conditioned, as she terms it, as she received her from you. Nothing could be more agreeable to Clara, who has a great aversion for travelling alone; so that you may very soon ex pect to have her with you, and in her one of the greatest ornaments of humankind. I think, too, I dare answer for you, that you will at once approve and admire the Sacrifice she has made to honour and to friendship; content to quit a Scene of numberless conquests, among whom there are certainly persons of great worth, but who have not had the Secret to touch her heart, and to Seek, in your rural recess, a refuge from all the pomp and glare of a world, in which she has So many universally received pretensions to make a most distinguished figure. But! repeat what I have before mentioned to you; I never Saw one of her age, I think. Scarce Seventeen, - with So determinate a turn for 
purely 
!h 

!' ‘ 
LI 
lit 
di 
I. 


) I. 
: \ I 
• i 
I! 
i 1. 
>! I 
ii' 
'i I. 
'1 
fi' 
I' ' 

( • 
I. i 
<. 
im'' 
; iij 
ri.l 
ii 
L 1 
I _ t 
.; I 
, 1 
: 1 
'I 
('; 
0 
fi 
Y 
, !!! 
.!i. 
i 
h!il 
'f 
^‘1 
*'!| 
iji! 
Iii: 

I' 
!i! 

s 
ill 
230 
Mrs. B u C K L £ y 
purely domestic life, which is Surely the greatest qualification for that connubial one, to which, however stie appears to have So little difposition. Nor can she reappear among you, under the disgrace of a negle6l: ed beauty, since she has evidently refused Some of the first matches of the kingdom,, and most of them from that principle of honour which is her unerring guide, that of disdaining, on any profpe6t of fortune or ambition, or, indeed, on any consideration whatever, to give her hand without hpr heart. A profanation of which whoever is voluntarily guilty, not only foreclofes all equity of redemption from one of the worst kinds of hell on earth, to which she will have condemned herself, but forfeits all right of repining,, at those horrors of her fate, which can hardly faik of being the punishment of her folly,, of her meanness, and, indeed, of the bafeness of her perjured injustice to the man she marries, to whom she solemnly vows a love she has not, nor is it probably in her power ever to have.. For surely any appearance of fondness afterwards must arise from a' motive too gross to be mistaken for love. On the other hand, what execration is not due to those tirannical parentsk who, sacrificing Nature to h'or tune, inflidf a punishment worse than death itself, on children instindtively of a taste too just to see the same charms as they do in money or titles! If Such parents were but to consider the torments to which they expose a tender amiable child, by throwing her int the arms of some disagreeable wretch, whom not to detest wcnild be a want of common sense;; they would but fairly weigh a, length of loathfom horror against the dispatch of a moment’s mortal pain, they would owm that the sacrifices of infants to Moloch, in the vale of Hin ’ were tender mercies compared to the suffer 
non 
ings toswhich they doom their innocent children; 
by 

id Mr. Mellefont. 
231 
/ 
by making viflims of them to Mammon. While, to render the cruelty the more completely bitter, they insult them with the pretence of its being all for their happiness, though they are all the while consulting nothing but their own interest or their own vanity. Ido not here lay any stress on the temptations, to the falling under which they expose their children, because I am sensible that those staves of the dirty Selfish pastions, never have delicacy enough to take that consideration, all natural as it is, into the account: indifferent alike to the misery and to the guilt of their unhappy offspring. So they but humour their own eternally false and despicable ideas, which unfortunately the world irfelf is too apt to countenance, in the abandoned turn it has taken to an avarice, which estimates everything, even happiness itself, not by the constitutives of personal merit, but by Something more current at market, articles of fortune. 
But what an unnatural shocking sight must it be, that of a blooming beauty, allied either with the infirmities of decrepitude, or, with what is perhaps ' as great a Source of disgust, with an ill temper or diseases at any age, and especially in youth, because there more extraordinary! Is it for parents to exafit Such Sacrifices from their children? 
Let me give you here an example, which you will hardly think digrestively introduced. You have not, perhaps, forgot a Sweet little girl, then a child when you took notice of her, about eight years ago, Lucy Harwood, the only daughter of the goldsmith who lived the next door to us : she was, since that time, grown strikingly Sightly, with all the glowing freshnefs of youth, and all the points of female beauty, graced, above everything, with the most engaging modesty. Happening to be one day at Some public place, I do 
not 
232 
Mrs, Buckley 
! I 
I;; 

I 
t; 
?. • 
I 
I! 
j' 
not well remember which, where Ihe attracted a general admiration, she had no better luck than to make a conquest of one Mudly; a fellow, originally a follower of his father, a crier of old clothes, for whom he carried his bag, till by Some accident he got to be runner to a public office, and there made his way, by no other merit on earth but that of an implicit stave that would run any risques for those in power to advance him, and would fet his hand and face to any job or drudgery, the fouler the more welcome to him. With this noble dif position he could hardly fail of Succeeding, and he accordingly made a constderable fortune, originally, by the relaxation of management, and indolent connivence of authority at the waste and malversations in offices; but this fortune he Swelled immoderately, by occastonal hits in the stock jobbing way, and loans to the government, out of the very money of which he had cheated; loans on occastons perfectly unnecessary, if counsels less courtly and more national had prevailed. After, then. Spending the greatest part of his life in enriching himself by Schemes against the public welfare, he began to lay out for pleastng himself, by a project against private happiness. Senfually, then, affefited by the sight of Lucy, he Soon got himself introduced to her parents, and without giving himself any the least trouble about the girl’s inclinations, but with all the cockfure insolence of the purfe proud adept of a plum, he proposed his right honourable intentions. The parents, dazzled with the opulence of this fon of rag fair, thought they could do nothing better for her happiness than to bury her alive in the arms of that detestable lump of mortality. But to give you a juster idea of the happiness they proposed for their child, Suffer me to furnish you with a description 
of 
io Mr. Mellefont. 
233 
id. 


y 
1 
of his personas I am apt to think you never Saw him. 
Figure to yourself a little thick Squab animal, not much above four feet high, with a prominent belly, which, with the shortness of the inferior part of his body, might give you the idea of a toad Set on his hind legs, especially if you take into the picture a broad, bloated, tawny face, with a wide mouth that had the air of meaning to go round his head, if it had not been luckily stopped by his ears, in revenge of which it looked as if it would bite a piece out of them every time that in speaking he made a contortion with it. Add to this a flat nose, blubber lips, eyes goggling like those of a strangled cat, and a greasy undluous perspiration for ever on the surface of his phyz. Somewhat like the Sweating of a vault in Summer; and, with all this, your imagination can never reach half the horrors of his appearance: be this Said without any the least caricature. 
The charms of his mind were also answerable to those of his pretty person, which, in all the stmplicity of good faith, he took for the perfect model of manly beauty. Nor will you think this strange, when I tell you, that, take him out of his rote of official bustle, and the jargon of change alley, he had not an idea beyond that money grubbing Sphere, and was Scarce not a born idiot, with a head as contradled as his heart, and nothing could be more So. Accustomed to fawn and crouch to those Superiors from whom he had anything to hope or fear, he indemnified himself for that constraint by the utmost harffiness and haughtiness to those whom occasions, or their disastrous fortune, had made any way dependent on him It was then that he would give a full loose to all the insolence of his native meanness. And 
yet 

234 
Mrs. Buckley 
yet, with this very wretch I have Seen fbme of our first nobility, cheek by jowl, treating him with the utmost familiarity, slapping him on the ihoul der, and calling him honeji Tom Mudly! It is true they had borrowed money of him in some of those rare moments that his vanity had played his avarice, the trick of rendering him less Scrupulous than usual about Security. 
To a girl possessed of these invaluable treasures of Nature, the graces of youth, beauty, and innocence, and that girl too his own daughter, this was the precious rich objet Mr. Harwood presented;; object rather less prefentable than a Negro dying of the yaws: for with his death there would be mixed an idea of delivery from him, whereas the disproportion of this poisonous monster’s age was not, after all, quite so great, as not to threaten Such a duration of torture, as was likely to make an end of her first. At the bare of fight him, however, introduced on that footing, Lucy of shuddered, and recoiled with horror and affright, which he very currently attributed either to her maiden modesty, or to the over whelming effect of his delightful person, or to both combined. But he did not long remain under that deception; she presently let him know her Sentiments of detestation of him, with all the ingenuous candour of an age incapable of dissimulation. In vain had he the mean indelicacy of Seeking the Satisfadlion of his passion, which her refusal had only the more inflamed, from the arbitrary will of her parents, who sofar complied with his request, that, after remonstrating to her the duty of unlimited passive obedience, after representing to her what She would lose by her obstinacy, equipage, jewels, sideboard of plate, fine clothes, everything, in short, of which the ^ possession at best tyres or grows indifferent after a 
flgw days, but which with Such a condition annexed 
# 
to Mr. mell£font. 
235 
!1 
ed to it, as that of subjection to Such a monster, would become even matter of execration; they concluded, on her noncompliance, with the threat of turning her out of doors, and abandoning her ro the wide world. And they were as good as their word: for Lucy, protected by an instinct of Naturejnfinitely wiser than their instigation of false opinion, ventured, for the first time in her life, to have a will that was not theirs, and perfisted in rejefiting him. The unalterable tenor of her ob je6tion to their pressure was plain and unanswerable. I do not love him; and if I do not love “him, I ought not to marry him; and this is a “duty, to the breach of which no parents ought ‘‘ to compeii or vdsh to Seduce me, ’^ This was her text, and (he stuck unremoveably to it. Nor was this in her any Spirit of disobedience to them, but merely an invincible aversion against a man fit to inspire nothing else. Neither had they the common resource of imputing this refra^orinefs in her 
to ny p.'‘c* rhgageriient of heart contrary to her duty. She did not need that circumstance to fortify her abhorrence of So shocking an obje6l. 
Both father and mother, then, enraged at her wilfully missing Such a heavenly bargain, literally Speaking, turned her into the street, where she must have absolutely fallen upon the chance of Public Charity, or, worse yet, upon the chance of private vice, if she had not been taken in by a distant relation, who, neglected by the family for her poverty, had been occasionally relieved, in Secret, by lucy’s natural goodness of heart. With her then she was fortunate enough to find a temporary refuge, I was then in Cornwall or she should not have failed of receiving assistance from me. The grateful good woman, not content with only harbouring her, procured her means of Subsistence by the hnnest industry of an employ of her talents in 
embroidery. 
r 
236 
Mr 
embroidery, millinery, and other articles of female work. Nor was it long before she was taken notice of, and courted, by a Sober young tradesman, of very good morals, that had just Succeeded his father, with a competent stock, in a flourishing way of business, who married her, and to whom fly makes a most virtuous, difereet, and happy wife. It was, however. Some time before her tender parents would be reconciled to her; and that being the only point wanting to her fatisfafifipn, I had the pleasure at length of Succeeding, in bringing about the restoration of her to their good graces, more for her sake, you may be Sure, than theirs. 
Meanwhile, what do you think was the opinion of the world On general? To its eternal shame, a condemnation of lucy’s condu^i: not for disobedience to her parents: no; but for her having stood in her own light, as they vulgarly called it; in not prostituting herself for life, (and Surely a marriage merely for interest deserves no Softer name,) and that to a hardly human creature. 
I have been glad to particularise this example to you, of the false and sordid judgement of the generality of mankind, in points of interest slighted or trampled upon, because I know that Clara has not escaped blame for the many great matches she has refused, not indeed with Such violent reasons as lucy’s, but Surely with full valid ones, in the eyes of nature and of honour, even, if she had had no other plea to offer but her want of Sufficient liking. 
I was in a fine writative vein for tiring you to death, but here comes Clara, with impatience in her eyes to relieve you, me, and herself. (To Clara) What ails the girl? Why do not you take the pen ?” 
Clara Jits down, reads what Mrs. Buckley has ‘written^ and continues the letter addrejjing 
berf^lf to Mrs. Mellefont.'j Deaf 
(( 
tt 
I 
i 
isb 

To Mrs. M E L t £ F O N T. 
237 

Dear Sister 
IT is very happy for me I am escaping from Mrs. Buckley, who would certainly Spoil me, if I was to stay much longer with her, she is So terribly partial to me. I adopt, however, in its whole force, her plea for me, where she has left off, of a want of liking being a sufficient cause to forbid the bans of matrimony: I adopt it too, the more readily, for its reducing the whole of that great magnanimity, which she does me the honour of attributing to me, to my only not being jade enough to take the advantage of a transtent weakness of a very worthy man, to essentially injury him, to betray a friend, and to dishonour myself; and all this wishout any temptation; for I never constdered as a temptation any views of fortune or ambition; and then as to any liking, that was absolutely out of the qirestion; so that having had nothing to Sacrifice to my duty, I own, I think it is even injurious to me, to allow me any mighty merit for my procedure, as if it had been just or natural to cxpeq; any other from any one that was not totally unprincipled. 
As for fortune, I neither meanly wish it, nor give myself the air of false heroics to despise it: nay, for many obvious reasons, but especially for the good it enables one to do. I rather hold it a destrable object; only I think it may, like gold,, be bought too dear, at the expense either of honour, or of those points of happiness which it is e ternally out of its power to give, or to Supply their place, though it may and often does destroy them. Content with my humble mediocrity, and having enough, what miss can I feel of the more that I do do not want? With my taste for retirement and Simplicity of life, in everything, any Superfluity, as to myself, would rather perplex than please me : I might indeed, wish greater circumstances, for 
the 
^ A 
Clara Maynwaring 
the Sake of my friends; but, thank Heaven, I have none that are in want, or that would not be sorry to profit by any advantages to me that were incompatible with my happiness; I might wish a more affluent fortune for the sake of relieving the poor or distressed, but that duty never exacting more than a proportion to one’s a6lual abilities, does not require improper Sacrifices to interest; and Surely no Sacrifice could be more improper, than that of a duty so inviolable as of never marrying till the heart can join with the mouth, in pronouncing the Sacramental word of Love, not as mere matter of ceremony, but as a Solemn truth As to ambition, for example, of a title; it is not barely matter of indifference to me, for it is without any the least affectation I can aver, that I have rather a strong prejudice against that distindbion, especially as, in my Small Sphere of observation, it has appeared to me to be generally, I do not say necessarily, an unfavourable one. To persons of real merit it adds no sort of lustre, while to the worthiest, it seems rather to throw a light on them, that directs the pointed finger of scorn to its mark; as Surely where a title is unfilled, (and how few of them are not so?) the strongest contempt is even a duty. In short, I am almost tempted to subscribe, without reserve, to Mr. mellefont’s opinion, “That titles are remains of Gothicifm, antiquated forms of appellation, the sound of which having long Survived the sense, remain in vulgar use, without foundation, or meaning, and merely by the force of prescription. In short, as titles now stand, and considering the persons on whom they are commonly pinned, they appear absurdities, to which custom is sofar from reconciling one, that ‘‘ it is only a provocation the more to disgust and “derision.” 
I confessed, too, that I have been a good deal confirmed 
ic 

CC 

CC 
ic 
C 

t9 Mrs. Mellefont. 
239 
I 
> 
firmed in these ideas by the company of that rank I saw while I staid at Lady lovell’s, who did not, however, receive worse charaflers than the common run of people of quality, and whose rote of life Seemed to me one continued Scene of wretched trifling. It even hurt me to see them reduced to such poor Ihifts for disposing of their worthless leisure, when, by choice, taking refuge from the irk fomnefs of not knowing what to do with themselves, in parties at cards, which one would imagine rather enjoined for a penance, than a recourse for amusement, being neither recommendable for mirth, nor for exercjfe of body or of mind. It is, in truth, and without any the least caricature, hardly possible to conceive anything more trivial, more insipid, or more numbingly stupid than their assembly nights, when every card table appears an altar erected to Idleness and Dullness, at which the celebration of the Service is at once worthy of the Divinities, and of such votaries as are capable of Sacrificing time and taste to them. Lady Harriet used to call those ridiculous routs the states ge neral of Nonsense, and the person who gave the entertainment, their Stadtholder for the Night. 
Motives, then, of fortune and ambition being quite out of the question of my non acceptance of Lord soberton’s offers, there remains only for me to state my want of liking, which, rendering it no felf denial, reduces to nothing any pretehtion to merit from it, and leaves it in the rank of or 
7 
dinary procedure. For nothing is more certain, than that he had not inspired me with any the least inclination to enter into a partnership of his wrong. Not that he wanted merit. I know no man on earth that has more, or with whose friendship I Should think myself more honoured; but having never viewed him in any light but that of a man e quivalent to be married to ray intimate friend, he had 
never 
r 
240 
Clara Maynwar'ing, c?r. 
never cost my heart the question how it stood af feq: ed to him, in the point of a more tender Sentiment. 
I shall then, dear lister, be with you Soon, and carry down a heart as clear and as free as I brought it to town, and as it is my sincere wish to preserve it, without airs, without affe6l; ation, without prudery. This my wish is the produce of my fear, I am but too sensible of the nature of 
the passions not to dread their violence, and not to put my heart, of the weakness of which I am but too justly diffident, as much as possible on its guard against those enemies to its tranquillity and content. 
Here I should, of my real grief and concern for parting from the worthy Mrs. Buckley, whom I love and honour beyond expression, say more, but that she is to read this letter before I close it. 
As to yourself, and Mr. Mellefont, I flatter myself I am arrived with you to the pitch of not needing professions or formularies of compliment. 
Yours, c. Clara Maynwaring. 

LETTER XXXII 
From Mr. Mellefont to Mrs. Buckley. 
Lancashire. 
AS your last letter, dear aunt, included an acknowledgment of the packet having come to your hand, which contained, together with the advice of clara’s Safe arrival, our joint retribution of the most grateful thanks for all your kindnesses and favours to her, I should not, perhaps, have troubled you So soon afterwards, but for the indispensable duty of my conssdering every request of your’s as a command. That indeed of my acquainting 



To Mrs. Buckley. 
241 
cfuainting you of any incident materially relative to .Clara, carries whth it so great a pleasure, that it robs me of any merit of obedience. 
Something then having happened, in which Clara seems more deeply interested than probably even She herself fufpe6ls, I Seize the occasion of giving you an account of it, but am obliged to introduce it with Some preliminary lights. 
About three or four months ago, Mr. Sumners, an Officer, who had been put on the half-pay on the close of the last war, came into this part of the country, and took a neat Snug lodging at a farmer’s, Scarce a mile and a half distant from my house. At that time I had not any the least acquaintance with him, and, indeed, he was little, if at all, known to any of the neighbourhood; a circumstance which had been one of his principal motives for the choice of this recess, where he proposed to wait the return of a fon, who was absent in Holland, on Some business. His turn for Solitude, independently of bis having long Seen the world with eyes rather of distike than of only indifference, was also, in part, owing to a languisti ing state of health, from the wounds he had received at the battle of Quebec, and of which he hadi never been well recovered. 
He had not been there long, before he was exposed to the indignity of a distress by the failure of a remittance of his pay, through the infidelity of a Cashier to Mr. Stanley, a very worthy ham borough Merchant, and constant friend of his, to whom Mr. Sumners had entrusted that concern, and in whose counting house, Mr. Sumners, his fon, had been indulged admittance, there to take a tincture of merchant’s accounts, and of commercial notions; in which situation he had contracted a stri(5t friendship with his fon, who, it seems, went lately to Hamborough, on some affairs rela 
vol. III M tirt 
‘ h 
r ■ 

f: 
■s'!# 

242 
Mr, M E L L E F O N T 
tive to trad 
C 
It was, then, on this failure, that, for a debt far from considerable, incurred by the purchase of a horse and chaise, this worthy Gentleman was arrested when in a country where he was an entire stranger, he was, for want of immediate bail, or at least of such bail as he himself did not 
choose to incur an obligation by accepting, carried to a common gaol; upon which he wrote immediately a tender expostulation to Mr. Stanly, who had not till just that instant discovered his castiier’s imbezzlements. On receipt of this letter, Mr. Stanley was not content with immediately sending down expreis the requisite relief, with ample reparation of damages, but came down in person to make an apology, and satisfy Mr. Sumners of his innocence; nor would he be persuaded of his forgiveness, till he.had consented to an arrangement, that stiould thence forward make such another accident, 
humanly speaking, an impostibility. 
And here, dear aunt, on the occasion of my mentioning the treatment of Mr. Sumners, in his being so unnecessarily and yet not illegally thrown into prison, forgive me, in favour of humanity, a digressive reflection on the impolitic cruelty of our laves, in authorising, under such little restridiion, those burial places of our fellow-creatures alive, incomparably oftener Sacrificed to the cruel humour or to the revenge of merciless creditors, than to the calls of justice. I am ready to grant, that feme debtors do notdeferve a less punishment than common highway men, their means of coming at the money of honest tradesmen.. of others, by fraud, or circumvention, being not a whit less detrimental, and much more odious, than by open violence; but if you would Set against these villainous debtors those insidious creditors, who have by design, by artifice, by taking the advantage of ignorance and inexperience, brought unfortunate objects 

t: 

to Mrs. Buckley. 
243 
r 1% 

Il 
a 
/ 

jests under their clutches, by the letter of the law against its spirit, and I fancy you would find the account of fraudulent debtors, in contrast to unjust creditors, so nearly balanced, as to afford ho fair argument in favour of the least humane fide; especially if it be considered, that it would be more eligible for ten of the guilty to escape, than one innocent person to Suffer. This would clearly reduce the state of the question to the point for which I would contend, that Debtors, generally Speaking, (and it is from generals and not from exceptions thatconclufions are to be drawn, or laws framed) cannot, in the eyes of humanity, and especially of justice, the glory of which is never to be at variance with humanity, for whose sake it came into existence, deserve of all deaths the most horrid and the most torturous, that of perishing, as Such numbers actually do, in the dreary dungeons of legal captivity, by a Sickly languor more intolerable than the most acute pains, by atrophy, by ananition, and espcially by affliction and despair. 
But perhaps I exaggerate. The term torturous” 
may appear over strained, or declamatory. It can only appear So to those who either do not think at all, or are destitute of human feelings. consult any physician of skill and ability, and I dare aver, that he will easily Satisfy you, that the Sufferings of the body, and the anguisti of the mind, in the process of a confinement, under its generally concomitant circumstances of penury, cold, hunger, filth, want of free air and exercise, hardships of all kinds, and especially corrosive grief for the coolness or desertion of tired out friends with, in Short all the train of those evils, from the very idea of which humanity Shrinks with horror altogether form a complication of torture, compared to which any other torture must appear light, espe 
M 2 dally 
\ 
244 
Mr. Me llefont 
r 
cially if you Set the duration of the one against: the sharpness of the Iharpeft imaginable. 
Dogs gnawing one’s joints; the having every limb broken with an iron bar, and the being afterwards coiled alive round a wheel, with the head hanging down; the cutting open the bowels of a man and fastening them to a windlass, to be spun forth for the amusement of tenderhearted fpe6ta tors; or the Persian device of a punishment for some enormous criminal, by confining him to receive the falling of water stowly, drop by drop, on his bare head, close shaved, till, with the extremity of that exquisite torture, he raves, despairs, and dies, afford some image, though a faint inadequate one, of that stow but excruciating pain, not only of the body by various hardships, but worse than of the body, of the spirit, under which it is even a familiar event for so many poor close confined wretches to pine away, in their execrable immurement, in Such a manner, that dashing their brains out against the prifon walls would comparatively be a tender mercy, or a death warrant at of clemency. 
Certainly, certainly the deaths which are the most terrible to behold are not the most terrible to endure. That gloomy remorseless tirant tiberiusj who might have given lessons of cruelty to an inqui fitor general, hugged himself for the idea of favouring his revenge in the making his prisoners die by inches, and feel their death, which, on its. coming, at kngth, he envied them, as an escape from him. 
And, in fao:, the worst kind of execution is the civil one, by a length of torments, which so often makes death be invoked, and sometimes desperately resorted to, as a deliverance. “I cannot in“ “” (said a stony hearted Arabian, and sighed)) my debtor.” (but then he added, with a 
smile, 
i 
n * 
y 

to Mrs. Buckley. 
24$ 
smile, on reflection,) 
** him hang himself, ” 
So emphatically calls and curses“ “heart 
I can do more, I can make This is what the Psalmist 

saying the bro 
A pound of human flesh, cut out near the heart, would Satisfy the gentle Tew of Venice; but nothing less than the bleeding heart itself, and torn heartstrings, will glut the white livered revenge and inveteracy of some Christian Shylocks, who profane, with a palpable mockery, the lord’s Prayer, by the daily repetition of what so Solemnly condemns them and yet, that it is but just for the Law to lend its hand to gratify this blessed humour is contended for by some of our law puritans, with all the rigour of the righteous over much, and with all the infenstbility presumable of Such as can loathfomely prey on the distresses of their fellow-creatures. 
As the Law now stands, it would hang a creditor that should take upon him to murder his debtor in a compendious way; as if envying him the office of executioner, it chose to take it out of his hands, only to put the unfortunate debtor to a more lingering torturous death, by burying him a live in the receptacle it has provided for him to rot in by inches. And this in complaisance to a phantom usurping the name and form of Justice, For surely it is not the less true for its being proverbially trite, that a prison pays no debts. At least for one that it recovers, it cancells and destroys a thousand. And yet the orginal intention of justice in providing Such places of durance, was purely tp compell the able and unwilling to pay, but never to punish unfortunate infolvents, or to make their inability more desperate by laying them under greater distress. A Lord Chancellor of England, at once a humane Judge and great Patriot, 
M 3 used! 
! 
, ' 
'( : i i 

; I; 
it 
! r 
II { f 
246 
Mr. Mellefont 
used to Say, he could hardly conceive a debt So great that a year’s close imprisonment ought not to Satisfy; and yet So literally true is the Saying, even in this sense, that a gaol pays no debt, that no length of that horrid punishment is taken into the account of the discharge, or reckoned part of payment. 
But how happy for creditors. In general, would it be, it the Law was even for their greater pro fpeci of relief and benefit, as tender of the liberty of the Subjeci', as it aftedts to be of his property; if justice, in Snort, disdaining to humour, and especially to be the tool of their vindidiive ness, would consult their interest more, and indulge their blind pastlons less! Between the creditor and his debtor, it is unquestionably the creditor that is entitled to the most favour. He is the party aggrieved. But is it any real favour to him, to abet his folly in increasing the inability of a debtor, or to minister to his cruelty in murdering him, after trusting him, perhaps, injudiciousty, or will a view to make a property of him by extraordinary profits? 
Can the white wash, as it is in deriston termed, of Some even base and fraudulent wretches, not preventively enough guarded against by the Law and sheltering themselves under an ads intended for a general benefit, but, like all other human acts, liable to partial abuses and inconveniences, be big with a blacker train of horrors, than the letting Such multitudes of those who are only unfortunate, daily perish in gaol, and worse than needlessly perish, to the reproach of Justice and of Humanity? or can there be a more execrably false reason opposed to the putting an end to the tortures of the innocent, than its opening a door for the guilty to escape them; if any one can properly be called guilty enough to deserve worse than death itself? I have 
U 1 
i 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
247 
K i 
• I 
1 
t i 
s! 
..'i 
• t 
I have begun with fairly granting, what I here repeat, that there are debtors, who, for the villainous nature of their premeditated frauds in con tradiing their debts, or for their baseness in eluding the payment of an honest worthy creditor, who is perhaps himself ruined, and liable to a gaol, for their failure, deserve death equally, or rather more, than those who rob on the highway; and yet, I think, that the death by that lingering torture, to which some of those vidfims to their own villainy are so often brought, is rather too much. But be that as it may, to infer from their guilt any expedience of involving those clear of it in a parity of punishment, is at once to renounce justice, humanity, and common sense. To take it for granted that the Law cannot provide proper distindtions, is to suppose Justice too blind, too unfeeling, or too indolent to make them. 
Unhappily the tricking debtor has too often a better bargain of a debt incurred by fraud and treachery, than the honest debtor betrayed into his distress by mere misfortune, by error of judgement, or by Silly thoughileffnefs. The first being commonly better prepared than the other, and living on the creditor’s Substance as long as it will last; while the other starves on his innocence of so base a destgn: Sometimes the creditor will have laid the foundation of his right by law to his Suit of imprisonment, in having avrong ed, circumvented, or infnared him, in which cafe the villainous creditor is always the most unmerciful. How many objects, at this instant, of both sexes, are, for want of means to prove their innocence of the debts for which they are Suffering their torments, perishing under them! But putting their cafe at the best; that they can at length make their wrongs and false imprisonment appear; what Jury can estimate their past groans, or the floods.of 
M 4 teapis 
248 
Mr. Mellefont 
tears their oppression will have cost their families What Sufficient damages can be given for the vexation of Spirit or the agonies of grief? and yet this is a distress much more common than is imagined, or.than the Law can redress. 
But even among those, who, on their first entrance into those mansions of misery, before they will have consumed what had wrongfully escaped, their creditors, and before their heart comes to be 
broken by a length of confinement, asset airs of bravade and unconcern; among even those, 1 say, it is easy to observe, that their festivity is loath ibmely forced, and their convivial jollitry awkward and unnatural. You may plainly perceive in all their dismally acted mirth, to which they have recourse by way of stunning their sense of their condition. 
a funeral countenance, and the horror 
of a ghastly smile; a mirth, in short, to which the faint flame of false Spirits gives a difcolored snap dragon hue, that makes them look as if they were celebrating their own funeral obsequies, or singing dirges at the burial fervice of themselves in those graves for the quick, which may sooner than they imagine, make them sigh for the graves of the dead. 
Amidst, however, the consideration of all these absurd horrors, it was not without Some pleasure that my researches into the antiquites of Britain led me to the discovery, that this infernal process, by imprisoning human creatures in dungeons, for civil debts, was a prafitice unknown to those times of simplicity and humanity, to which the great bulwarks of liberty, the Trials by Juries, and o there privileges of the common-law, can be traced. This impolitic, senseless, barbarous custom, was, strictly Speaking, imported into this island, together with its stavery, under imperial Rome, when her assimilative policy bred so great a change in 
the 

V 
fi Mrs, Buckley. 
249 
the laws, manners, customs, and religion of th British natives. And yet I have great reason to think it was So little agreeable to their genius and Spirit, that it was abolished on the Romans with drawing their forces, though it came afterwards to be revived by subsequent alterations of the forms of Law in imitation of those of the Continent. 
But do not imagine from this, that the Security of private credit was neglejfted by our more ancient laws, before this baneful exotic plant of remorfelfs tyranny took ultimately root. The goods of the creditors were liable to Seizure, but the human liberty was deemed too Sacred to be alienable for debt. A man could no more engage his liberty than his life. Private property, inherited or acquired, was considered as belonging to the fubje^, and as Such was transferable and feizablc on private Suit; but the fubjefis theirfelves were held to belong absolutely to their country, and as Such were solely at her disposal according to her want of them, for the occupations of peace, or of war. Throwing them into prison was robbing the public hive. The country was held the preferable creditor. 
But where there was any room to judge the debtor fraudulent, or contumacious, in the Secreting or with holding lawful fatisfafition with his goods; he was not only, by a judicial process, rendered the object of public infamy and Scorn, but driven out, by a civil excommunication, from Society, and finally out lawed. He was under a kind of interdifition of fire and water, till justice was Satisfied of his insolvency being involuntary, a misfortune and not a guilt. Thus were the rights of creditors Seemed so Sacred, that the pay ment of debts was held even a religious duty. 
This disposition, dear aunt, existed actually in those times, represented, by even very good au 
M 5 thors, 
• t 
; ' t 
f 
i 
, I 
f 
250 
thors 
Mr. M E L L E F O NT 
as times of barbarism, in which the Britons were supposed to be much Such Savages as the Cheroquees or Catawbas of North america, though nothing is more true than that all that is the most excellent, in our present constitution and laws, derives to us from tbose very pretended Savages, who were So uncivilifed as to place the law above the Sword, the greatest honour of which was, its being the guard of the law, and Subordinate to it. These were the times in which Mr. Buckley 
plainly demonstrated to me System was in reign before it 
that the allodial 
tain too great a mixture of the 
was Supplanted by the feodal one, and that what of liberty we now enjoy is owing to tbq former, though we still re 
latter. This, too, in one capital point, we have greatly corrupted, or at least put on a vepy false footing; the Substitution of regiments, formed by general levies out of the mass of the people, to the ancient provincial militias, which were attended with incomparably greater advantages. But, to enter on a discussion of this would be a digression within a digression. 
To return, then, to the subject of civil process, in the cafe of debt. Let me here indulge the fatis fadfion of doing justice to virtue wherever it is found. The French, who had from the Romans a dopted the inhuman pradbice of throwing men into gaol for insolvency, adopted it, however, with greater modification than we, and especially with one that does honour to their humanity. No man, after Seventy years of age, is liable, as L am told, to personal imprisonment for debt, or can be held to it, if already in custody. The prifon doors are Set open to him; and this, on the tender consideration, that to the infirmity and helplesshefs of that sea fonof life, it would he cruelty to add the miseries of confinement. Old age has, in that respect, the privilege of its Second childhood. 
showever. 

\ 
» ': i 

to Mrs. Buckley. 
251 

However, it is devoutly to be wished, since it is not, in the present prevalent hardness of the human heart to be hoped, that this inveterate abuse may receive at least Some mitigation, and that the laws, on that point, as they now stand, may be restored, in as great a measure as the general good will admit, to their ancient humanity, and Spirit of tenderness, for private liberty, in which public liberty has so great an interest. An amendment which might be achieved without any fori of wound to private credit, that life of commerce, which is but the better provided for by the Bankrupt laws. Our periodical als of Insolvency, notwithstanding Some particular instances of their being abused, favour, in general, this opinion. If that at of Humanity is just at one time, what valid reason can therf: be assigned for its not being so at all times? Or should Humanity not keep an even tenor, but b exercised only by fits and starts; on occasions, too, where Such as are rather unmeaning, temporary compliments to power dian favours of justice to the cause of humankind?? 

It is not, dear aunt, that I have thus run into a digression unawares. I meant one, but not quite So long a one as that into wshich I have been betrayed by the matter of it; a fault, for the pardon of which I dare rely on the interceshon of 
J 
your heart. You will only be sorry that so good a cause is not in better hands, for the sake of your darling spirit of humanity, to which it will be but an incentive the more, the consideration of the unfashionablenefs of the fubjedf. If the great are treated as they deserve for their paltry worthleffnefs, or their despicable follies, thousands of stupid Sycophants and dirty time fervers are up in arms to curry favour with them, by repelling the attack, and by imputing it t mean envy. And who are 
these 
I! 
252 
Mr. Mellefo nt 
these they pretend are So envied, but Such as arc more properly objects of pity? Or elfe they ascribe it to a cinic insolence, when the truth is, that the want of refpe6t is to one’s Self, in descending so low as to deign to animadvert on them. Of advocates, then, perfectly worthy of them, they need fear no Scarcity : there are always enough to step forth champions of the happy rich; but who takes the part of the unfortunate poor? Or who interceeds for humanity, expiring under lingering tortures? Expiring obscurely, unheeded, and especially to not one valuable purpose of justice or example. 
Mr. Sumners, then, after his recovering his liberty, resumed his habitation at the farmer’s, who had behaved to him with great tenderness and fen sibility, insomuch as to offer to be his bail or Security, which Mr. Sumners declined with, perhaps, too much delicacy. His chief amusement used to be reading, angling, or stiooting. It was on the occaston of the last that I happened to fall into his way, when, without too abrupt an im politenefs, of which his charadier was unsusceptible, he could not well avoid joining company with me. It was, then, that the little I saw of him gave me a great destre of his acquaintance, which it was not, however, without Some difficulty, and the Sacrifice of signal advances on my fide, that I could obtain. But I was, in truth, richly overpaid for my pains. I have conversed with many, but never, in my life, met with Such universal knowledge of men and things. He had been in the army from his infancy, and all the hours of leisure from the duty, study, and occupations of his profession, he had devoted to the cultivation of literature without pedantry, and of politics without party. And this turn was the more me titorious in him, for his being perfedily sure that 
acquisitions of that kind were, in these times, more 
I 
to Mrs, Buckley. 
253 
r 
likely to be prejudicial than Serviceable to him. But, independently of his being strongly impelled by his taste to the cultivation of his understanding, he had collaterally another objedi in it. This was the education of his only and darling Son : which he held too sacred an imcumbence to trust to any one but himself. Accordingly he made a conscience of previousty Satisfying himself, not only of every truth, but of the degree of value of every truth that he taught him, together with the manner of examining it by the lights of his own understanding. He recommended especially to him, the propriety and, indeed, the modesty of that kind of rational scepticism, which suspends deci iion till fair judgement shall have warranted it; warning him especially against the dangerous Servility of too implicit assent. 
Having been ordered early to America with the national troops; his wife, the daughter of a Merchant of the city, whom he had married with little or no fortune, but who, it Seems, made ample amends for that deficiency in the amiableness of her person and character, would not Suffer him to proceed without her, and Leonard Sumners, their fon, then a mere child. She did not, however. Survive but a few days her landing in that country, being carried off by a distemper, too often fatal to newcomers. By this misfortune the care of the fon devolved entirely on Captain Sumners, and he acquitted himself most worthily of it. It was in the midst of the wilds of America, and of all the fatigues of his duty, that his Sweetest relief and refreshment was to accomplish this boy, at all points, and to give every virtue the best chance, by being the first in poffestion of his heart; not content with forming which, he proceeded to store his head with Solid and essential knowledge in proportion to his 
growing Susceptibility of instrudf ion, which to judge 
of 
At 
L * 
'i 
f! 
ui! 

; i I 
, \ * •* 
p 
I 
!i 
: : f 
lii 
> 
* » 
254 
Mr. Mellefont 

of it by what Mr. Sumners related, as simple matter offacl, with great modesty, must have been prodigious. 
To these accomplishments, he added that of accustoming him early to all the manly exercises, in a way to give hardiness to his" constitution; and to inure him to fatigues. In these exercises he grew so amazing a proficient, that, without any prejudice to his studies, from - which these were indulged him as relaxations, he came to surpass the Savages themselves in all the points of bodily agility, dexterity, and valour, which they esteem so essential a part of personal merit. He was barely fourteen when he could out strip the fleetest of them at running, or defy them to out sw'im him in the roughest lakes, or cross the stream at a tremendousty Small distance from the fall, of Niagra; nor could one of them excel him as a marksman, whether with the bow or the gun. He was not Superior to them only in the chase of the fox, the mouse, or the elk, but would attack with more open intrepidity the bear and the panther. His father had often to tremble for his over rashnefs in emulation, and in his daringly provoking dangers; and yet could not find in his heart to damp his courage byrestraining it. 
However, just on the point of engaging in a ikir mish with the French, Some time before the fiegeof ci^ebec, his paternal tenderness had sofar prevailed over him, that, though leonard was tall and well formed for his years, he judged his age was a sufficient dispensation from exposing him to the chances Mof war. On this motive of caution, shefore he went himself, he gave his Son in charge to a trusty old Savage, with fpeciai order to keep him from the aeid till the addon .was over. Tut while Mr. Sumners 
5 
s 

i 
ft 
«• 
Id 
to Mrs. Buck lay. 
255 
LI 
ners was in the heat of it, he was not a little surprised, nor indeed a little concerned, to find his boy, with his little mufquet and bayonet, fighting close at his sie, crying, ‘‘courage, father! “I am with you.” The solution of this Sudden appearance was, that, in the noble impetuosity of his martial ardour, he had, without standing upon ceremony, knocked down the Savage, who had not stood in the least on his guard, and whom he left Sprawling, while Snatching up his arms he flew to the Scene of battle, and Soon discovering where his father was engaged, gave him the terrible pleasure of feeing him at his fide. 
But he afforded him a much more pure joy, when, after the combat was ceased, by the victory declaring entirely on our fide. Captain Sumners Saw him bussed in nothing but assisting the wounded, as they lay on the field, and assisting them, without any distindtion of frienffor enemy. He did more. As a French officer, left wounded on the field, was begging bis life of one of our Soldiers, the brute had twice Snapped his pistol, which twice misgave, to blow out his brains; at sight of which, as he was prepared to make a third trial, Leonard pushed his hand aside, just as he was presenting the pistol afresh at the unfortunate officer. The Soldier, enraged at this, turned the muzzle of it towards him, and firing it, the pistol this time went off, and the balls just grazing leonard’s head, went through his hat. At this, and at hir cowardly cruelty to a Suppliant enemy, his own comrades were So moved with indignation, that'toa man clubbing their raufquets., they knocked him down, and would infallibly have drubbed him to death, if Leonard had not effec ■.tuaily interposed to save.him. After which, giving the Soldiers a trifle to drink, he protected .the Trench officer from being plundered, and leadin 
him 

2<6 
Mr. 
him off the field, presented him as his prisoner to his father, by whom he was treated with the utmost tenderness and civility. 
As to the poor Savage, whom the blow given him by Leonard, to take off his opposition to his escape, had only stunned, with very little hurt, he not only begged his pardon, (which the other, the cause considered, readily granted him, with tears of joy to see him Safe returned,) but gave him a very fine mufquet, and a complete cloth ing from head to foot. 
In relating this story, I will not say that a father’s just pride in so humane and valiant a fon, especially at his age, might not have some Share; but it is certain, that he gave, at least, so great a part of the praise to the gallantry and native generosity of Spirit in the Britisti Soldiers, that it could not be Said he was not glad to introduce the narrative for the sake of doing justice to the virtues of his countrymen. 
At the battle of Quebec, his fon, though barely fifteen, greatly distinguished himself in that memorable action, when poor Wolfe, after having in his last official letter to the Secretary of State, pathetically and justly lamented his having been Sent a Sacrifice, Sealed with his blood, the consummation of his complaint, falling himself the vidfim in the bosom of a viqory, gained by a rash but necessary stroke of despair. 
It was at (his battle, that while gallantly doing his duty. Captain Sumners received two gun ssiot wounds, the one with a ball that went quite through his body, not without a considerable offence, in its passage to the noble parts: the other was with another ball, that not going through, lodged a little above the loins, but So that it could never be ex tradfed. The consequences of these wounds were a total inability to continue the military profession, 
which 
• * 
to, Mrs, Buckley. 
257 

which he, therefore, quitted to return home, and retire on half-pay; under a languid infirm state of body, wdth few intervals from pains, and those at times very acute ones, which' he bore with the most manly patience. 
On a consideration 6f the sufferings of this wor* thy Gentleman, and of the mediocrity of his re compence for them, in the straights of half-pay, I could not, without indignation, help comparing his hard fate with that of Some of the national 

leeches that had fattened on the blood of the war, and whole monstrous fortunes, the produce of their country abandoned by the negligence of its Government to their unmerciful depredations, were at once a public Scandal and calamity. What a contrast! Behold, on one hand, a true gentleman, and gallant officer, dying, by inches, of wounds received in the acquittal of his duty to his country, or exposed to perish in a gaol; and on the other. Some dirty, lowborn wretch, in virtue of a happy hit of calculation, or of some vile contractor’s job, given him through ignorance or breach of the public trust, by the interest of some man of power as worthiest as himself; behold such a one, I say, without having so much as Seen the shadow of the dangers of war, rioting in the Spoils of it, and insulting his own plundered country with gorgeous equipages, glittering fide boards of plate, and purchases of estates of which the unfortunate owners were reduced to the Sale, by their being involved in the common misery of the times, brought on by the politics and management of those who made those fortunes, or were the cause of their being made. 
Sometimes indeed Mr. Sumners would, in the midst of his pains, say, with even an unforced smile, that it was at least some mitigation of torture to him, to reflect that he had received hi 
vioundt 

258 
Mr., M E L L E FONT 
wounds in the cause of his country, and not in Serving against it, like the unfortunate troops in Germany, whose valour was so cruelly misemployed on the very Side diametrically opposite to the clearest interest of their country; on the fide of, at bottom, the greatest friend to our greatest enemy; on the Side of a prince., from whose head had proceeded that transient hurricane, which, without any good to himself, had done so much mischief to mankind. Of this fatal epoch of false policy, with all its fuccestes in its train, so justly contemptible on the crazy foundations which had been laid for them, Mr. Sumners could never speak but with a virtuous and truly patriotic indignation. Consequently thereto, this consideration it was, that a brave and loyal fubjest, serving in the army, might, at the will of a worthiest or corrupt ministry. Supported by a deceived, or implicit Parliament, be Sent on the most deplorable of all errands, on absurd, fenfelest, ruinous expeditions on the Continent, such as undoubtedly our last was, that made him disinclined to have his fon liable or subjected to that horror, by his continuing in the army. 
With all his profound regard, too, for discipline, which he looked upon as one of the most indispensable estenfials of military force, he had, by reflection, contracted a Sovereign dislike of the army on the footing it stands at present. Pie observed to me, that the French had been totally enslaved by the regular bands stolen in upon their constitution, which bad, very bad as it was before, com padted of a number of petty foedal tyrants, was rendered still infinitely worse by the power concentering in a Single hand, which turned the state itself into a mere stratocracy, of which the King was Generalissimo, and in that quality was invested with ail the terrors of a military despotism, and fet 
above 

to Mrs. B U c K L E Y. 
259 

above the Law, which was degraded into Its too and Support. Whereas in Britain it had not, indeed, as yet, produced that ever execrable effect. Slavery, thanks to the Spirit and genius of liberty. So innate to Britons : but that it undoubtedly was., at bottom, the principal cause diredi and indirect, of that most enormous evil, the overwhelming pressure of the national debt. This, he observed, had brought on a worse state than that of beggary, which if not, as yet, ssavery, had a manifest tendency to reduce us to it. That in the meanwhile, all the destru'diive causes were proceeding in full operation against us, without anything material or worth mentioning, So much as thought of to counter act them. On the contrary, we were insenssbly entering into perdition, and that So imminent, that a man of any foressght, might, with tolerable justness, calculate the moment of the catastrophe, unless Some truly nationals, men of real worth and honour, touched with a Salutary sense of the dangers of their bleeding country. Should, ere yet too late, resolutely rise to her rescue, and join in earnest, to put the constitutional energy and powers into motion, and away with all this loathsome infernal nonfense under which She is So Shamefully Sinking. To Such virtuous Subjects, posts would appear only desirable as ccca sions of public Service, or rewards of approved merit, not the vile prostituted baits of avarice, in which even ambition itself is absorbed. His reasons for this opinion were demonstrative ones, but it would be here too much out of place to Specify them to you. 
As to that great movement of the state, the necessary military force, he averred himself ready to make it as clear as the fun, that a militia, equivalent to the army, was perfedily practicable, and that there was no end attainable by an army that 
was 

I! 
a6o 
Mr. Mellef o nt 
i 
was not equally So by a wels established constitutional militia. Something in the nature of that in Switzerland. Of which by the by, it is to be noted, that one single Canton, landlocked and Surrounded as their country is by papist powers, itself at a distance of the sea, with hardly any trade or manufadiures, could not only, in virtue of its militia, defend itself, but by the moderation, probity, management, and patriotifrn of its government, keep out of debt, nay, amass the astonishing sum, for Such a state, of more than a million and a half sterling, to throw into the funds of a nation, who had fifty times the reason, from advantage? natural and acquired, to have twenty or thirty millions at least in store, instead of groaning under the load of a hundred and forty millions sterling, not a single shilling of which was ever borrowed on any exigency, but that of a false and unnational policy, on various pretences, palmed by a designing Court, on a generous, brave, and credulous people. A candidly commented history of the Said debt, conducted thro’ every parliamentary mortgage of the national revenue, would, to the impartial, prove this assertion, beyond a doubt. 
All this, together with Some personal observations on the preferences of interest to merit, and on the bad constitution in general of the military establishment, made him peremptorily take his Son out of the army, and trust his future fortune to Some civil or mercantile employment. In this last view he had placed him, as before mentioned, in a friend’s counting house, where he was, when he Sent him to Holland, on Some business, which I should imagine, could not be very extraordinary, as in his mention of it, he Seemed to lay no stress on the issue. 
His fon had not been long gone before the incident of his arrest, which I am apt to think he did 
not 


i 
to Mrs. B U C KLE Y. 
z6t 
f 
not write to him, for fear of giving him an uneasiness that might interfere in his bufiness, or bring him back prematurely. To the best of my remembrance, he stightly hinted this to me, in some of his more open moments. For in virtue of that unfeigned respedl for him, with which he could not but be fensible that he had inspired me, I had the honour of being admitted not only to the pleasure and profit of conversing with him, but even to some (hare of his confidence. In the course of it he had historically, and always with great indifference, not to Say contempt, introduced the mention of his having been occasionally betrayed into the personal acquaintance of some men of the first rank in the kingdom. This had made me, at first, wonder how, with his abilities to serve, instruct, and delight, they could be So little their own friends, as not to do themselves the honour of Seeking to be essentially and permanently his. But my surprise Soon ceased, on the very obvious reflection, that such a charaditer of real greatness as his, could never agree with their littleness. Even those very talents, to the reputation of which he might own their vain barren curiosity for feeing him once, would be against their desire of feeing him twice. In his company they would feel, or imagine they felt, a sort of necessity for what on all things on earth they hold most in horror, thinking. Now thinking is to them a state so violent, that they are on tenters till they get out of it: and in the meanwhile wissi the cause of this torture to them at the devil. Pining out of their natural element of insipid futility, and unmeaning merriment, they are miserable till they rejoin their blessed compeers in tame, saint, ignoble mediocrity, or, lower, yet, in absolute worthlesshefs. The ** worshipful Society” of triflers is the true fool’s paradise. 
How 

i K' 
252 
Mr. Mellef o nt 
.1 II 
However, I was not to enjoy long the pleasure of So valuable an acquaintance as Mr. Sumners. It was but a very few days before Clara arrived, that he was taken Suddenly so ill, of the consequence of his wounds, that he had baiely time to make his last difposttion, which was chiefly that of leaving in my hands a packet Sealed up, of family papers, which he desired might be safely conveyed to Mr. stanley’s hands, who would take care to deliver them to his Son, whom he mentioned with the most pathetic tenderness and regret; saying, that his absence, just at that jun<^ure, was even a consolation to him, as he was fenstble of the pain which the sight of him in that condition would give him, and which it was so much better should be Spared him. His death, he observed, could not, to his Son, in the eye of his reason, be any cause of surprise, or of Sorrow, considering that it was a relief from a life fubje(!st to such constant tortures, but that his presence at it might too much shock his excellent nature. He requested, that he might be buried in my parish church, and Soon after expired with the most pious fortitude, and the most placid resignation. 
I wrote immediately advice of his death to Mr. Stanley, who, with great exprestion of grief and esteem, left the care of his funeral entirely to me, with a desire that no cost might be Spared to make it decent, and worthy of the deceased, for which he Sent me an ample advance, excusing his not coming down himself, on the absence of his fon, gone to Hamborough, on Special affairs, which, however, would have been no obstacle, but for Some extraordinary call of business, that would not aliow'of his leaving town. 
You will naturally now ask, what is all this to Clara? have patience, dear aunt, and you shall know, but not till the next post; for to tell you 
but 
1 
to Mrs. Buckle y.. 
26; ^, 
but the plain truth, I began this letter too late to Save this, unless I break off, as I now actually do with the usual affuranees. Yours, c. 
. Mellefont, 

LETTER XXXIII 
Mr. Edward Mellefont to Mrs. Buckley, 
Lancashire 
[/« 
CLARA was, I may Say, but just arrived, when one day, as we were sitting after .dinner in our fore parlour, which looks to the door of the little spot of garden before the house, the noise of that door opening made us turn our eyes towards it, and behold! four men, with some o thers that followed out of curiosity, bringing in, on a hand barrow, a man, in a blue surtout, without any hat, all bathed in his own blood, senseless, and to all appearance rather dead than only dying. 
Our hall door being instantly opened, he was brought in, and laid on a couch, taken out of the parlour for that purpose. He seemed to be young; but there was no distinguishing any features of his face, it was, together with his hair, so Covered with dust, and blood that gushed from two wound in his head. He had also received a hurt in his right fide, not, indeed, deep, but broad and jagged, so as to have more of the violent contusion in it than of a wound, though it had produced a great effusion of blood. 
I dispatched a man instantly for a surgeon, and in the meanwhile those who had brought the stranger could give no other account than what they had from the postboy, who had come with him from the last stage, and who was not 
yet 
It; 
• %,. i; 
II 
I! 
264 
Mr. Mellefont 
yet returned from looking aster the horse that wai the cause of this accident. 
The person so hurt, was, it seems, riding post, and Setting his horse carelessly, being probably so much absorbed in other thoughts, that, not heeding any thingon the road before him, he was unprepared for the Sudden start of his horse, at assght of the carcase of a dead one which lay in the way; a start astde from it with such a violence, that it flung him against the ragged stump of a tree hard by, stuck with Some dry branches, so stiarp pointed, that they ran into his head in two places, bruised his face and flde, so as, upon the whole, to have greatly disfigured him, besides stunning him to Such a degree, that he was taken up for dead. 
This accident not being forty yards from where I live, which Was the nearest place of any likely to afford him aflistance, if not too late, Some who had joined to lift him from the ground, and to place him on a gardener’s barrow for conveni ency of carriage, judged very rightly that they could not do better than to bring him to my house. 
Mr. Atkins, the Surgeon, living but half a mile off, being luckily in the way came immediately, though not before the stranger had given Some signs of returning life and sense. On his arrival, he visited his hurts and wounds, and pronounced them more alarming in the appearance than dangerous in the reality; and that as to his trance, he apprehended he was only stunned with the violence of the blow, and hoped it would have no worse consequences, which were, indeed. Sometimes the cafe of contusions of the head; but that, in all states of the cafe, rest and composure of body and mind were essentially requisite. 
In a very few minutes, the stranger was sofar recovered, that be opened his eyes, stared wildly 
about 

to Mrs. Buckley. 
2s5 
about him, while raising his head from the bolster of the couch, he leaned on his hand, and coming to his Speech, the first use he made of it was to thank us very politely for the astistance we were giying him : And the next was to ask us how faf he might be from kettleby farm? That question instantly gave us all to know what the greatest probability • is that you have already anticipated, his being Son to Mr. Sumners, whose residence had been precisely at the place so called. On my telling him the Small distance, he Seeniied greatly pleased, and asked me if Mr. Sumners was still there, by which I found he was unapprifed of hi decease. While I was hesitating my answer, the Surgeon, who knew the father very well, and had attended him in his last illness, relieved, with more presence of mind, my embaraffment, by telling him, that his father was gone upon some indispensable call, but believed he was very well, and much better than he had been years before : at which the poor young gentleman’s eyes sparkled with joy. Alas! how soon to be cf eeived of the self in which he understood it, and of which the i 
n was purely iheant in tenderness to his present condition, when the stiock of the mournful truth might have been fatal, or at least greatly hurtful to him. 
Common humanity would have Of itself alone induced us to take the utmost care of the greatest stranger, in Such a circumstance; but now the knowledge of him made still a greater point of our concern for him, Clara, solely moved by a principle of compastlon, exerted herself with all the officiousness of a good heart, in assisting my wife in her difpositions for preparing an apartment, and everything proper in his cafe; moved especially by the consideration of the peculiarity of it: A young gentleman thus grievousty hurt on his return to a father, whom he would find dead, and 
vol. III N who. 

Mr. Mellefont 
■who, in all probability, must have left him in very indifferent circumstances; All this only the more recommended him to her tender commiseration, and drew tears of it from her softness, even before she could properly be Said to have Seen him. For the blood from the wounds in his head, mixed with the dust amidst which he had fallen, had so disfigured his face, as not so much as to afford a guess at the features of it. But after it had been, by the furgeon’s care and direction, cleansed, and restored to its native honours, it is not ealy to conceive the difference it made to his advantage. It is not possible to imagine a more noble, a more engaging countenance; while what paleness from cffufion of blood took from its vividness of colour, was made up to him in attractions of tenderness and companion, by softening Somewhat of an air of command in the not unpleasing stern nefs of a brow, which in youth is a zest of manly beauty that tempers its softness, and defends it from effeminacy. In harmony with his face is the whole of his form, cast in the most exquisite model for shape, stature, and proportion. Then his port, manner, and air, have Something uncommonly great in them: he might have pasted for one of the first nobility, in the times when those of that class derived their air of distindion from elevation 
of Sentiment, and from a stern disdain for anything little or dishonourable : before indolence, avarice. 
and meanness of Spirit had, by an habitual im prestlon, given them a trivial ignoble counteance, only the more ridiculous, and the more remarkable, for that strut of insolence, which they preserve in midst of all their debasement, and which they take for a fine air of state and importance, though it is but a fimptom the more of their beggarly want of true dignity. But leaving these precious compeers in worthlesthefs with my charitable wish for their waking, happily for themselves, happily 
for 


to Mrs. Buckley 
267 

for their country, out of their portentoully stupid dream of the postibility of forcing rcfpeff, by laying upon a barren ground of vanity the false and yet poorer manure of dirty gains by venality, let me proceed to do but justice to Mr. Sumners. It is easy to discern instantly in him a native greatness of Spirit, Setoff with so amiable a grace of ease and sweetness of temper, as, combined wits his bloom of youth, and a figure formed to please, can hardly fail of prepoffesting strongly in his favour. 
As Soon then as the Surgeon gave leave for a visit to him in his room, my wife. Sister, and I, went in to pay our refpe6: s, and to assure him that all imaginable care would be taken of him, with request to him to tranquilife himself thoroughly, as one of the most effectual means for.his speedy recovery. But while Clara was acquitting herself of her compliment, the most indifferent by stand ers could hardly have escaped observing the impression she made on him, of surprise, mixed with Something more powerful, more tender than surprise. His gaze was as intense as politeness would admit. He appeared confounded, motionless, and, after a length of pause, could hardly articulate, in breaks and confusedly, an answer to her civility: It would be premature to Say, that his appearance had on her an effect, in any degree like or approaching to that which hers had had on him. And yet, I thought J could discern in her looks, logether with her surprise, a certain melancholic tenderness. Such as I had never remarked in them before, and which, after all, might be nothing more than an expreshon of a simpathising mood. 
After this, as often as it could be, without prejudice to his recovery, or without being disagreeable to himself, we gave him our company, to preserve him from the natural weariness of Solitude in a Strange house;; I cannot, consif 
N 2 tently 
268 
Mr. Mellefont 

tently with truth, Say, that Clara betrayed atiy a versson for contributing her, share in her affistancc at this discharge of our duty of hospitality. 
As soon, then, as he was enough recovered for conversation not to be prejudicial to him, since the Surgeon had So managed, as to make him easy about his stay with us, as more convenient than at his father’s little apartment in kettleby farm, to which he had, at first, much insisted on being removed, but was grown tnore indifferent about that point; we used our best endeavours to.amufe, and especially to divert, him from any impatience for the return of his father, till his health, grown more confirmed, would admit the cessation of this innocent fraud of concealing from him his death. 
But in the meanwhile noshing did more real honour to his memory than the astonishing proficiency of his fpn, in all parts of learning, in all objects of the human inquiry. Yet no one could be less verbose than he was, a Succinfitnefs which was, stri^ ly Speaking, owing to his being a perfefit master of every fubje6l, on which we led him to Speak. In every Science, in every art, he had Seized the precise point which threw the clearest light on the whole, and rendered it comprehensible, at one view, in all its parts. On my expressing my asto nishent at the progress in learning, he had made, in Such early youth: he attributed it, to the fair representation of study, by his father, under the form of pleasure, without deceiving him as to its limitations of possible acquirement. Learning, he Said, was a hill, of which if you should arrive at the Summit, you can no more expert to touch the Iky than if you had staid at the bottom : but then in the very aft of ascending, you have a great deal of pleasure, and on your gaining the top you enjoy more delightful prospects, and a 
fe 

Mrs 
269 
f 
ferener air, when thus got above those fogs of ig noranee and prejudice, which involve those whom you will have left beneath you in the valley. 
Yet all his profusion of knowledge was rather drawn from him by the course of a conversation, in which he always followed, and never led, than it came uncalled for, in any spirit of display. Everything he said, was So graced with winning modesty, with So unassuming, so diffident an air, as gave me the highest opinion of his understanding and charadier. But what the most amazed me was, his prodigious facility of transstion from the most Sublime subjects, of which he treated with the greatest command of thought, and language, to the merest arrantest trifles, into which he entered with as much ease and propriety, as if trifles had been his element, and he had studied nothing elfe all his lifetime. By this means, he is the master of proportioning himself to every chara6ler, from the great Philosopher who thinks the most profoundly, down to the little Lord, who never thought in his life; from the consummate Scho, and Statesman, versed in the abstrufest points of literature, and of policy, to the gay Lady, whose ideas never rose above the humble circle of stich objects, as ribbons, laces, pompoons, the misteries of the toilet, points of dress, fashions, routs, lap dogs, or pretty fellows. 
You will eaflly judge, however, that I anticipate here the discovery of his talents, which could not so unfold themfejves, till after he was more thoroughly acquainted, more recovered, more at ease in his mind. 
In the meanwhile, Glara, I dare aver it, at first, from nothing but her natural goodness.. disposition to pity, was, in doing the honours of the house, and of fulfilling the duty of hospitality, of great Service to her Sister, who under favour of her 
K 3 assist 
V. 
rr 
— / 
o 
Mr, Me L lef o n t 
aflistance, and supplying her place, could have the more leisure for her domestic affairs, and the care of her children. 
In the purity of this view, she occasionally attended the sick young gentleman, and carried him in his broths, and such articles of diet as the Surgeon 
allowed him; which he was observed to receive from her hands with transports of alacrity and satisfaction. Nor was she deficient in the good nature of yielding to the great desire he expressed of her sitting down, and whiling away the tedious moments of his chamber confinement. 
In a little time, however, we had Some reason to think, that this frequentation, originally Suggested by refpefils of civility, began, at length, to be granted to inclination. There appeared a most manifest revolution in clara’s temper and countenance. Her air was, from the openest, frankest gaiety, softened into a tender melancholy, her looks wore all the marks of an inward confli^ between 
a growing passion and her reason, over which she probably dreaded the victory, without having the power to form resolutely a wish against it. It naiist, no doubt, have cost her a violent struggle, to reflect on her refusal of some of the greatest matches in Britain, and on the waywardness of her fate, that was now captivating her to stmply a young gentleman, in far from paramount circumstances, without anything but his personal merit to recommend him, which is, indeed, a great consideration, but ought not, perhaps, to be the only one. 
We have all of us, however, refpefiled enough her secret, which it is not impossible may be a secret even to herself, not to disturb or difeoncert her with our suspicions. Though I must own, I am not perfectly pleased at the course I imagine things are taking. Not that any interested motives sway with me in the least. If I mention Mr. 
Sum 

I 
i.: 
to Mrs. B u C K l1 y. 
271 
sumners’s want of a competency, So obviously to be presumed from the straight circumstances in which his father died, a good part of my concern is for himself; I do not think clara’s provision a Sufficient compensation for the bar and heavy encumbrance to him of the nuptial state, so young as he is; and at a time of life when setting out in quest of adventurous achievements of fortune, there is no being too light armed. Yet let me not take tip Sorrow at interest; al may still be for the best; and of this at least, I am Sure, I mean and wish the best. I think match making rather a dangerous office: but on Some occassons, not more So than match breaking. Having, in fat, no control over Clara, nor, indeed, desiring any, beyond the influence of the most tender friendship, I remain the more easy, for my being perfe^ly satisfied of her honour and discretion. A paflioa may gain Some empire over her, but never beyond a certain point. Her clear spirited ideas of a happiness independent of ambition and fortune, may, perhaps, lead her to despise the false prejudices of the world, but will, I dare answer for her, never engage her tojconfound with them the just ones. 
Meanwhile, her influence over Mr. Sumners has been of Some Service to him. You will eass ly imagine, that so fast as he recovered, we should be the less able to continue the concealment from him of his father’s death. We had. indeed, had 
the early precaution, on finding that the moment he could hold a pen, he wrote to Mr. Stanley, in London, to send away to him, by the same post, a letter, containing the account of his fall, and of our luppreflion to him of his father’s decease. 
This had had the effest of bringing Mr. Stanley down in person, who had, however, the discretion not to go in to Mr. Sumners abruptly; nor before he had consulted with us on the best means of 
breaking to him, with the least danger, the misfor 
N 4 
tune 

27 2 
Mr. mellefont 
tune of his having lost his father, which it was every instant growing more and more impradica ble to keep from his knowledge; especially, too, as he expressed Some doubts of his well-being, from w’.hat he had heard on the road, of the indignity he had undergone of an arrest, and was inclining to impute his absence to that circumstance, which he had been, till latterly tender of mentioning. 
Conssdering, then his manifestly favourable dif tinfition of Clara, it was proposed to her, to take upon her the difelosure to him of that event; hut we could not prevail on her to accept the commission; it went, she said. So much against her heart, to strike such a dagger to his, especially in his present condition. For our dispensing her front this disagreeable talk, she gave other reasons, So plaustble, (though by the by, Ido not think she gav^ the true one at bottom) that we acquiesced in them. 
Upon this Mr Stanley engaged to hazard the discovery to Mr. Sumners; and being let in, they 
li4vl rt prcily jri 1 Y 
Mr. Stanley, almost immediately, fet off on his return to town, where his presence was necessary. At taking leave of me, he put into my hand a bank note, more than Sufficient to defray any incident charges, with many thanks, and a Special, but very needless recommendation, of Mr. Sumners to our utmost care. He had offered to send 
down a Surgeon from London, but Mr; Sumners being perfe^ly Satisfied of the shill and probity of Mr. Atkins had rejected the proposal. 
No Sooner was Mr. Stanley gone, than there appeared in the young gentleman So visible an alteration for the worse, that we began to repent of not having waited still longer to undeceive him. The news had adiually caused Such a revolution in his mind, as had affected his body to such a degree, that it produced, what had been before kept off, a 
feverish heat: and the wound of his breast, which 
was 
t 0 Mrs. Buckley. 
2i?3 
f 
wa precedently in a very promising way, began to break out afresh, not to mention other difcou^ 
His stomach especially turned against all Sustpnanee, and there \yas great reason tor fear that his grief and dejection would have very facious eonfaquences. 
It was now that.clarafs talk was to commence, which, I assure youj she made little or no difficulty of undertaiking, that of consolation, and of endeavouring to Sooth aud mitigate his afflifitions But wh^le she employed herself with all the zeal] of fimp^thy, and not without efficacy, in this tender office of humanity, she was rather consulting the good of his health, than the Safety of her own heart. The moving expression of his unaf fe^ed fisial Sorrows; an expression which was even more in his air and looks than in his words, added greatly to the amiableness of his person; lb true it is, that the heart embellishes the exterior. Nothing, however, could so powerfully have affe6, ed Clara, conssdering her turn for sentimental tenderness, and Simpathy for. the. afflicted. 

I am, then, much mistaken, if, under the favour of this mood of softness, a yet more tender passion has not stolen unawares into her bosom, and taken possession of it. At least, I am pretty clear that she has all the Sirnptoms. For her coufolation, however, all appearances are false, or. she is in no great danger of the inclination being, all on ■ her Side.. It is not difficult to discern at the bottom of all the boundless respect and modesty of this young gentleman, the profound impression it is, indeed, no great wonder Clara should have made on him; if you combine with the common effects of her beauty on all who see her, the additional charms of tenderness in her offices. of compassion, and, I may venture to say, in the difposttions of her heart 
N 5 so 
274 
Clara Maynwaring 
lo new. So strange to her, and which are So far from mifbecoming her. 
Such, dear aunt, is the present posttion of things. Our Angelica has, I fancy, found her Medoro. Of this event, I have, however, judged it my duty to apprise you, especially as you expressed such a concern for Clara, and for everything that relates to her. Yours, Sic. 
Edward Mellefont. 



0/ 

LETTER XXXIV 
Miss Clara Maynwaring to Mrs. Buckley. 
Dear Madam, 
laneapire. 
That cruel L shat unjust brother of mine! ^ But hold! do not let me abuse him too much; for there is, I am afraid. Somewhat of truth in what he has written to you, and communicated to me; but, I hope, matters are not quite So desperate with me, as he makes them. 
refpe^ling as I do the inviolable laws of candour, and the rights your friendship has to the clearest truth from me, I will not, nay, I need not dissemble, what I am not conscious of its being a guilt, that I give to Mr. Sumners highly the preference over every one of his sex I have Seen. I go farther. I do not deny that this preference is attended wish a wish to please him, which in my life I never experienced for any one before him; and if, as I violently fufpeq: it, their lurks, under that wish, anything of that dreadful passion called Love, which I tremble to pronounce or write, so horridly have I been terrified both at the word and the thought, (Modesty by your leave!) I will not offer to so much reason, to so much honour, as introduced it, the indignity of denying it, as if I could 
think fensibility to merit matter of reproach; Of 
this 

¥ 
to Mrs. Buckley. 
MS 
this I am very Sure, that every Sentiment of my heart, might, on this occasion, stand the Scrutiny of the Severest virtue. And yet, to judge of the power of that passion, by what I feel of the little I know of it myielf, I accede, from my whole heart and soul, to the opinion of its^being a dangerous one. I do not wonder shat parents are So much afraid of it for their children, conssdering that often the hap pinefsof their whole lives is at stake, on their making, or not making, a proper choice. Unfortnately, they are both liable to error from very different causes. The old are generally governed in their choice for the young, by the thing on earth that has the least to do with love; interest : while the young are too often missed by their own unfufpe8; ing truth and inexperience, into a reliance on the fastest pretences, under the Seducing malk of that passion. Unhappy sex that we are. So commonly doomed to the fatal alternative of being Sacrificed or betraid. Do not, then, dear Madam, do me the injustice to think, that, putting the consequences at the •worjiy (I was really going to write, the hess) of what my brother apprehends for me, I shall not have taken my resolution, without such a deliberation, as may do honour to my choice, and defend it as much as possible, from any air of weakness. Peace be to those romance writers, and novelists, who are for ever painting love under the character of madness, and calculate its strength by its triumphs over reason 1 In general, I fancy they may may be right enough! But I hope that exceptions are not out of nature. I should rather imagine, that a love founded on the great principles of honour, reason, and virtue, must burn with a ten times brighter fierceness, than a love obscured or debased by the admixture of mean passions, or unworthy motives. In the confcicufnefs, however, of my own weakness, I dare not be Sure that 1 should, if I was unhappily in the cafe of it, renounce 

276 
Mrs. B U C K L E V 
nounee a passion for its not being authorised by reason, though I should eertainly try; but of this I may be very dear, that inclination can at least not be the weaker for its having reason on its fide : nor can I think otherwise, but that love is never So strong. So invincible, as when it is a virtue. 
Upon a subject lb delicate, and So new to me as this, a Subject that mocks definition, and can, as. I conceive it, be only reached by Sentiment, I know too well your candour not to rely on it for your excusing my not Saying more. I recommend myself, then, to your best construdion, the hope of which is among the strongest incentives to the regulation of my condu6t on my desire of deserving it. Yours, c. 
Clara Maynwaring. 
letter XXXV 
Mrs. Buckley to Mijs Clara Maynwarinc. 
My dear and ever ejleemed cb Idy 
T is not easy for me to express the pleasure I received from Mr. mellefont’s two last letters, with your epilogue to them. 
I never thought So ill of Clara as to doubt of her susceptibility of love. Nature, who has made her So amiable, would hardly, after she had turned out of her hands So finished a piece of work, use herself So ill, as to break off her communication with it; she would hardly bestow, all in vain. So many blessings as she has done upon you, under the curse, vjhich, as St. Catherine of Sienna So shrewdly and So justly observed, charaderifes she Devil, an incapacity of loving. 
, Nothing, too, was more likely, than that a passion, So often rebuffed in. its attempt, to gain admittance to your breast, under she passports of 
ambition 
to Clara maynwarin.«f. 

s^mhition and fortune, should, at length, furprisse aji entrance under the cover of a virtue, especially. So lovely an one as that of pity. 
Then, Mr. mellefonts description of Mf^ Suna?* ners gives me So great an. idea of him, that if X was not So near threescore.. in honour, to truth, I am obliged to confess myself, I verily think, t cpuld order a poft chaife to my door, and. Set out for my nephew’s in a hurry, to. dispute him with you. 
But, jesting apart, which by the by would not be very good-natured on a Subject So Serious to you, it is your choice of him, that fixes my belief of his not being without a very extraordinary, merit, flnce, he could make an impression on a heart So Solid; ^ so guarded as yours: it is not, in truth, from your having rejefled So many Splendid offers that X draw this conclusion; I have known more than one, woman, who, after having refused very advantageous, matches, have miserably thrown thernfelves away, ^ on Some despicable object of their sickly fancy, or wretched caprice. But I, do you more justice; X as little fufpefl; you of folly as of vice. Some of our Sex unhappily, and very confistently, conjoin, both; you are infinitely above either. 
In this cafe, it is the nature of the choice that for ever justifies or condemns; in which are northeast cestarily implied, the inviolably Sacred refpefits of duty to parents, and of the laws of honour, under which a due degree of consideration of circumstances is undoubtedly included, as who would wish, to be the cause of detriment or misery to the object of one’s affefilion? But in this last clause, I only mean a just attention to the requisites of a competency for happiness, without taking into the account those Superfluities, which oftener exclude than procure it. 
With these reserves, which are sofar from in compatibie with a true affection that they are. 
essential 

278 
Mrs. Buckley 
give coachman, maid, the 
essential to it, for I do not fuppose any one will to a girl’s running away with her father’s or to a vicious old fellow’s marrying his honourable name of love; with these reserves, I say, of duty and of honour, that passion has all the chara^er of innocence, and is even under the Special proteffion of virtue. Not death itself is baldly a tribute more certainly paid by old age to nature, than love by youth. The Spring might as well be without its verdure, as that season without its susceptibility of that passion; nor think, my Clara, there is in this any ludicrous looseness of cafuistry. The horror and ssiame are to those who dare deny the bindingnefs of the law, of all the laws of nature the moss Sacred and the most innocent, the law of moral love. The abuse of that inssin6t, is, doubtless, indefenssbly bad, but perhaps not essentially worse than the infernal practice of exa6ting, under a most blasphemoussy false colour of religion, a Solemn vow of disobedience to one of heaven’s commands the most explicitly signified by revelation and nature. 
As I have, then, but the more esteemed you for your virtuous and honourable refusal of offers from Such as either had not been able to inspire you with a liking Sufficient to justify your yielding, or were forbidden to you by an invincible bar of justice or honour, I shall not, I assure you, esteem you the less, for not holding out, where there exist no Such objections, as are founded on those laudable principles, which made your refistence a virtue. 
There is even in the choice to which you now seem inclined, manifestly clear as it is of views of interest of ambition. Something noble, magnanimous, worthy, in short, of Clara: and as you have a moral assurance of Mr. sumners’s charadier, there is no great hazard of your distinction of him being lost upon him, or of his not being sensible of its value. On this occasion your greatest honour 
NU 
Clara Maynwaring. 
279 
nor appears to me, what, however, is no wonder in perse harmony with your greatest happiness. 
In all this, my worthy girl, I am the freer of my sentiments in favour of your inclination, not only because I think it a virtuous one, but as I am fen sible your modesty needs, perhaps, this friendly encouragement. 
As to the news of the town, as you, doubtless, see the public papers, though marriage mentioned in them of one of your ac<iuaintance, and nothing more than your acquaintance, will hardly have escaped your notice; Mils Bloomfworth to Billy Grinly, that egregious feather headed fop, whose rage for rendering by all the powers of dress, that horrid figure of his Somewhat more tolerable, would have been So much in vain to any but Such an idiot as herself. You must have Seen him, I fancy; nay, if I remember right, he was one of your danglers, till you drove him from you, as you would any other noifom infe^, that pestered you with his buz. She caught, it seems, the little animal at Court, one drawing-room night, or rather it caught her with a taudry tastelefs birthday fuit, in which he was fluttering about like the king of the butterflies. 
She had been, for sometime before, courted by Mr. Plowden, of rather a Superior fortune to his, and who had nothing against him, but a certain roughness, and unpolitenefs of character, which concealed much Solid fense and worth. This too was owing to anegleoiof his education by his father, 
one of the most determinate fox hunters that ever 
# 
nobly risked his neck over a five bar gate; a neck which however was, at length, broke, in too ardent a pursuit of the glories of the chase. These two suitors Miss Bloomfworth weighed in Scales, of which not Solid judgement, but sickly Fancy held the balance, and accordingly the lightest in the eye of taste proved the heaviest with the Fair 
one 
3 
28o 
Air, 
one, and Plowdon had she good fortune to kick the beam, Grinly was the ele^' of hearh only made for trifles. She had not the fense to con fid^r shat in fiieh a flimsy coxcomb, there was not the stuff ever to make a man; whereas; in the rustic, there was. a solidity of substance; that wanted only the polish which it was very of. receiving. Gut? of a block of marble, in the greatest roughness of its first chippings, there may be formed the noblest statue; but what the deuce can you make better of a human figured stick out of a toy shop than a frippery rag doll? Besides, to love a down shay be but a trespass against opinion, but to love a fop, is a sin against nature. 
Well, but therehas been another marriage which you could not lee in the papers, because,, certain reasons of decency and family regard, which will be obvious to you, it was expressly kept out of them, and the ceremony hut three nights ago performed with the utmost privacy, in the presence of a very few feled persons. “Ay, but what marriage?” I wonder at your assurance in alking me shch a question; as if you had not yourself been present at the nuptials of Lord Soberton and Lady Harriet Nay, do not stare. “What, I Clara ‘‘ Maynwaring, at that time in langashire at two “hundred miles distance, I assist at a wedding in in London? indeed Mrs. Buckley, I am Sorry ** for you, but you really dote.” — Abuse me as much as you please, but I do aver, and will maintain it, that you, yes, once more you, was at that same wedding; I do not say, mark me, quite, in your own proper person, but, virtually, through me, she self constituted proxy for you on that occasion, at the earnest request of the two parties So that the old, sat, ugly, Mrs. Buckley, had the honour of representing the young, blooming, beautiful Clara, of which, I assure you, I was not a little proud, nor a little welcome there; as I am perfectly 
I 
to Clara Maynwaring. 
281 
se€l: ly Satisfied that the news will be to you. 
But I have here anticipated Some material e vents. As Soon as Lord Soberton had finished the ultimate arrangements for the nuptial ceremony, he came to my house, and with the most cordial expreshons of friendship and esteem acquainted me of everything being fixed, and entreated, in Lady harriet’s name and yours, my presence at it, in acquittal of your promise of being one of her bride maids. 
But what Sovereignly pleased me, was his telling me, that he had disdained to impose himself on Lady Flarriet, under the stur, though but of a consciousness to himself, of a Secret offence. The way he took to break it to her was not amiss, considering the fairness of the step. He threw himself at her feet, and feriousty declared to her, that he would not quit that posture, till she should sincerely, and from her heart, pronounce his pardon for a fault he was going to confess to her. You may guess the answer of a women, who, you are sensible, adores him; and, perhaps, the rogue knew it too. However, after Securing his terms of an absolute unreserved remission, he, with all the proper Softenings, confessed his wrong to her, and did full justice to your noble procedure on it, M'hich Solved, So much to your honour, the mystery of your Sudden disappearance. 
The manner in which she took this discovery, for it certainly was one to her, m, y Lord told me, had raised her infinitely in his opinion. Without betraying any emotions of anger, or vulgar jealousy, she gave him So much credit for the frankness and generosity of his confession, that she did not Suffer him to endure a moment’s pain of uncertainly about her sentiments. Not' content with immediately granting' her forgivenefe, as ample as he could dessre it, she, without meaji iiefs, or weakness, Set Herself to Sooth his confusion, and even to Suggest excuses for his failure, which 
she 
2: 82 
Mrs. B u C K L E r 
she principally took from her allowance of your transcendent merit. She saw, in short, too much, and too justly in this his acknowledgment of an error, the stncerity of his regret, and the Solidity of his return, not to let the sense of her wrong, be absorbed in the joy of his readiness to repair it. 
As for you, she wanted words to express her sense of your worthiness. You had not so much surprised her, as you overwhelmed her wish the dignity of your conduct. 
I dare Swear she built altars to you in her heart. In her estimate it required a Superhuman power to withstand the offer of a Lord Soberton, that god of her idolatry. And, to do him but justice, he is a prodigy of worth, an illustrious exception indeed to the delpicable generality of his fellow nobles. 
It was, then, with a transport of the most grateful delight, that she hailed his proposal of a nuptial present to you of her jewels, to which, however, she would not consent, without adding to them a thousand pounds in a banknote, which, together with a deed of gift in her name, of an estate and manfion house in Surrey, of about two hundred and forty pounds a year, will instantly be forwarded to yon in a box, by a Safe messenger. As to the estate, it is originally a donation from Lord Soberton to Lady Harriet, in order to her conveyance of it to you, as being presumably more fatisfaflory to your delicacy. 
There is more yet; Lord Soberton bestows on my nephew the living of Welborough, which is a good Seven hundred a year, not to mention his assurances of future patronage, of which I dare guarantee the stncerity. But all this will be better explained to you in their joint letter, which goes in the box, and which is conceived in terms so respectful, that the manner furpasses the benefit. 
And now, good folks, (I address myself to you now 
in family,) I have undertaken for you, that you 
shall 
to Clara Maynwaring. 
283 
shall not refuse the munificence offered you, on the foot of the most honourable regard and esteem. This would not only be false heroics, but high treason against friendship; for of this I am sure, your non acceptance would make Lady Harriet very unhappy: and as for me, besides that I should be piqued at your not doing honour to my engagement for you, I would go and swear to whoever would hear me, that Clara especially refused them, in dudgeon, because you and she were sorry, upon second thoughts, for her letting Lord Soberton slip through her fingers. So, pray, let me have at least no vain scruples; for as to just ones, you will find me very ready to admit them.) 
But, dear Clara, (I now write singly to you, the lovell family has still another obligation to you, and a very essential one, that of the real and thorough reformation of Earl Lovell. There never was so complete a change of conduct, which he himself frankly attributes to your being the cause of his opening his eyes on his folly and worthlesshefs of chara^er. But no entreaties "of Lady Lovell could prevail on him to break the resolution which he took, on your refusal of him, to go abroad, and Seek, in travels, a dissipation of his discontent, at his not having Succeeded with you. He proposes, too, to go exadilly the same tour of Europe, which he took when he made it in pure complaisance to fashion, and gives for his reason, that he is Sure everything will appear, to his eyes of observation, as new as if he had never Seen them with ihofe unmeaning ones, with which he went abroad the first time; and carried, like the Snail too much of home on his back, to make any progress in the knowledge of men and things. His mother and Lady Harriet are both sorry for his being lost to them, just as you had restored him both to them and to himself; but especially Lady Lovell repents, from her whole 
soul. 
/ 
2^4 Mrs. B u C K L E y, Cfr. 
Soul, her having opposed, what she would now ardently wish, his happiness with you, on a fup posstion, that you might perhaps yet be brought over. Lord Lovell, however, is himself more justly perhaps yet be brought over. Lord Lovell, however, is himself more justly persuaded of the im poshbility, which confirms him in his determination to leave the kingdom for a while. He Sets out next week, having only staid so long to assist at his lister’s nuptials. 
And now, Clara, suffer me to offer you my fervent wishes, of what, however, I make not the least doubt, that the choice of your heart may make you ample amends far your noble contempt of title and fortune, so often at your feet, and which you have so virtuousty rejected, for their not being presented to you by the hands of Love and Honour. But even independently of that event, what joy could title or fortune give you equal to what you must at this moment derive, from your reflection on your having adhered unalterably to your principles! This is a real heaven you will have formed in your own bosom; and how fur perior that permanent internal one to the transitory fools aradife of stupid greatness and infamous opulence! There is not, surely, a general axiom more Sacredly true, than that we are essentially happier by virtuous Sacrifices, than by weak indulgences. Adieu, yours, c. Lucy Buckley. 
LETTER XXXVI 
l^r. Leonabi? Sumners to Mr. ch arlbs 
y Merchant at Hamborougb. 
I t is, my dear friend, to you that your father only excepted, I write the first, on my recovery cff the ability to hold a pen, after the misfortune 
of which he will before now have acquainted you. 
You 
To Mr. S T A >5 L E Y. 
285 
You cannot conceive what a disappointment it is to me, for many reasons, not to find you returned to England, from your Hamborough expedition. In my present Situation you would have been of great consolation and Service to me. 
I do not, however, forget you, and as yet not released from the confinement to which those hurts have condemned me, that I received from an accident rather burlefc than tragical, I Seize what leisure is afforded me from that circumstance to acquit myself of my promise to you of the account of my success, whatever it should be, in the profpefit on which I went to Holland, fore, indeed, against my will, as I was loth to leave a father, whom, as it has happened, I was never to see again; a father whom I Supremely and deservedly loved and reverenced; a father languishing under pains and infirmities, and whom nothing left than his express command, could have obliged me to leave. 
His reasons were nevertheless very cogent ones. You are sensible of the streightnefs of his circumstances, and of the passion he had for their taking a better turn, upon my account, more than upon his own. This led him to embrace for me the overture of Mr. Arnold, my grand uncle by my mother’s fide, to whom I was naturally heir at law, being next in blood, and who in a decrepit age, being eighty six years old, had Sent exprefsly’ for me to Amsterdam, where he had resided, in quality of Clerk and Merchant, from his tenderest infancy. But as his personal history is not foreign to ray purpose, I give it you Summarily here. 
Born and bred till the age of fifteen in London, he had been by his father, who was not able to give him any fortune, placed, for his education, in the commerical way, in the counting house at Amsterdam of Minheer Vanstieben, his correspondent, and 
a Mer 
286 
Mr. S U M N £ R g 
a Merchant of Some repute in that city, though originally only an orphan, without friends brought up at the wees houfey and who, at length, by his in dustry, had made his way in the world. With him,, in the quality of Clerk, my uncle had lived Several years, upon the hardest terms, and with barely an allowance of necessaries of life, which had inured him to a habit of penury he was never afterwards able to shake off, though it had long ceased to be a neceshty. For his master, all on a hidden, and without observing any interfnediate degree, descended from the height of the most distant reserve to the level of the mostfften'dly familiarity. 
I have been told that this is not uncommon to the Merchants of this city, who exadf, indeed, from their Clerks a long and stridi probation, but when that is fatisfa6lorily got over, they immediately take them to their tables, raise their stipends at once from two hundred to two or three thousand florins a year, and often abandon to them the whole management of their concerns. 
But Minheer Vanstieben had collaterally another motive. He had but one child, a natural daughter by a young woman of a reputable burgher’s family, who had been In a great measure, the cause of her fault, by their not confentlng to her marrying him, and who, on the discovery of her pregnancy, treated her So ill that she died of their persecution, immediately after her delivery. Vanstieben naturally took care of the child; and Was So faithful to the memory of the deceased, that he never would marry again. 
On his daughter’s being grown up, he pitched on this my grand uncle, for her husband, having before Satisfied himself of their mutual liking, and took him into partnership, which continued till vanstieben’s death, Some years after. 
Mrs. Arnold had brought with her not only a competent fortune and the share of a good bust 
nefs. 
i9 Mr. Stanley. 
487 
L 
nefs, but a difposition to carry economy much beyond those bounds where it ceascs to be a virtue; in which she proved but too congenial to her hus band, who was himself not a little touched with that miserable vice. 
They had two Sons, who both of them died young and issuelefs, the one, of the smallpox, in his father’s house, the other at Batavia, where he had been very unnecessarily fenton the pretext of making a fortune, while the real motive was the Saving to them the expenses of his maintenance. Nor do I find that they much regretted their children, avarice giving a sort of hardness of heart that makes it insensible to the feel 
V 
ings of Nature. 
Mrs. Arnold survived them many years, and died Something more than a twelvemonth ago, in a good old age, at which I do not much wonder, having observed, that from that very frugality, which is even a virtue when not owing to so great an evil as covetousness, there arises, however, one good, the preservation of health, if the prolongation of such miserable lives can properly be called a good. Mr. Arnold thus widowed, and left without a Single relation, in Holland, for whom he could have any the least regard, and being, by many infallible Symptoms, admonished of his own approaching end, turned, at length, his thoughts towards his own family in England, which he had for above half a century So totally neglected, that it cost him Some pains of inquiry to discover his next heir in blood, to whom he was determined to leave his fortune and possestions, probably not so much from any motive of tenderness, as merely from an impulse of the custom of prefer ing a relation to a stranger. 
Having committed, then, this inquiry to Mr. Von hock, his correspondent in London, with proper indications, I was, after Some research discovered 
288 
Mr. Sumner 
covered to be the person entitled; upon which Mr. Arnold signified his desire that I ssiould go over to him, for Some very Specious reasons which he gave. Hereon, my father, who had hardly ever heard of this Arnold, So complete had his dctachednefs been from his family, and who had not conceived any great idea of the invitation, judged however, that I should be wanting to myself, if I did not make a trip to see what there might be gained, and nothing could be lost but a little time, and Some expense Scarce worth mentioning, by this step of complaisance. He laid, then, his injundtion on me to go, and I accordingly took, alas! my last farewell of him. 
As soon as I was arrived at Amsterdam, e quipped with the most: authentic testimonials of my identity of person, together with a letter of introdufilion from Mr. Van hock, I repaired directly to my uncle’s house, which was far from a conspicuous one, though very commodiousty situated near the stadt house. I was, on mentioning my name, received with as much civilty as could be Well expefled from an honest: old Swiss, who, having lived long in Holland, was, as our cambridge friend would say, hardened like a quill, by being Dutched, and who had probably never said a thing, before in his life that was not dry or harsh. This man, who with his wife, as much stricken in years as himself, composed the whole domestic attendance of my uncle, who, he told me, was very ill, but he would go instantly and acquaint him of my arrival. 
In the meanwhile, I could not help taking notice of the furniture of the hall, or outer room, consisting of four broken back chah^s, and a table that appeared rickety with age, and of which one leaf, off the hinges, hung on the ground. Who does not know the mechanical force of appearance? 
so Mr. St a n L e y. 
289 
ance? My heart was chilled within me, at the sight of So cold and comfortless a prospeff. 
I was, however, after Some little wailing, introduced to my uncle, in an inner apartment, very little better furnished, where he was Sitting up in his bed, with the letters and papers I had brought him, on which he had just cast an eye. He appeared to me a venerable old man, but so much broken, sofar gone in a decay of nature, that the first idea he excited in me was that of compassion. 
I cannot say that he gave any great signs of e motion at the sight of me: on the contrary, I thought I remarked in him rather an insenfibili ty, which finished the disheartening me. I was wrong. There was a double reason for it; first, the natural indifference of old age to everything, especially under a mortal infirmity; and then his having contracsfed, by his long residence in Holland, a habit of the Dutch phlegm, which does not abound in outward demonstration, and yet, often, is not deficient in inward feelings. This was precisely the cafe of my uncle towards me. For after some inquiries into the state of our family, and thanking me, in his dry way, for the pleasure I was giving him, in letting him see me before he died, he ordered the proper public officers im diately to be Sent for, and a will, he had ready prepared, with blanks for the purpose by him, was filled up, in the most valid and authentic form, with my name and proper designations, as his foie heir, and executor, with not a single legacy besides, except of an annuity of four hundred storins, to the old Swiss and his wife, for their lives. 
It was high time he should take this step, if ever he was to takerst; for though after it, he appeared rather on 1^ mending hand, he did not Survive it quite a week, during which, considering the nature of the difposition he had made in my favour, it is unconceivable with how cold a re 
Vol. III O serve. 
2q0 
Mr. 
Serve, how Superficial a regard, he received tnj dutiful attcndence and Service. Sometimes, indeed, his eyes, already dim with the shades of death, he would fix on me, with a faint expression in them of pleasure and approbation; but then he would instantly take them off again, with a sigh, and air of regret. Very probaly, it was less in the light of his nearest relation that he looked on me, than in that of an heir, longing for his last moments to rob him of poffestions, which nothing but his inability of carrying them with him, could have engaged him to leave to any one. If that was his idea of me, he wronged me greatly; but he furnistied in it one of the strongest arguments against that' money mad avarice which leads its wretched votaries to accumulate wealth against that moment in which they are to cease for ever to want it, and in which it must pass to heirs, whom they must naturally hate, on the not improbable presumption of that joy at their death, for which their life will have so fenselefsly been employed to collefit cause and matter; a life, the whole dirty groundwork of which will have : been the thinking how or gain to save a sixpence. 
.1 am Sensible, indeed, that some have made of their innocent children an excuse for their sordid penury. One wretch of this kind I knew, who, against every call of generosity, or charity, used for ever to plead his being accountable' to his dear children for every Shilling he Spent. He was, in fat, very rich; but as to those Same dear children of his, and he had two, he would, for half a crown, have put them both into a pie, and for another half a crown eaten the pie, and hugged himself on being hired to Save by it the expense of a meal. The truth was, that he starved to death one of them, and by ill usage broke the other’s heart. 
But abstracted from the laudable Satisfaction 
oi 

to Mr. Stanley. 
201 
b 

of a parent’s leaving to his children in a moderate provision, rather a Spur to their virtuous industry, than, in an overgrown fortune, a cause of idleness, of worthlesthefs, and often of min, I cannot conceive what difference it can make to a man, whether he dies possessed of fifty millions or of not five (billings, unless to his greater regret in the first cafe. 
I had, however, at first, been So much influenced by appearances at Mr. arnold’s, that I had written to my father, not to entertain over high ideas of my expeftancies; which I had room to believe were much less considerable than we had been made to believe. 
Being now, by my uncle’s direction, in quiet poffestion of everything but his private clofei and papers, I apppeared, and indeed was, master of the house, in which he gave himself no longer any concern, leaving everything to my disposition, in which, I dare affure you, I behaved with all the modesty and circumspection imaginable. He had, as his voice grew, like his perceptions, fainter and fainter, faulteringly acquainted me, that the keys of his closet, and bureau, were under his bed’s head, which he desired me to take as soon as the breath should be out of his body. But, what you will think Singular enough, when that happened, which was about ten in the morning, he was found to have expired, with his keys fast grasped in his right hand. The Swiss, who had faithfully attended him, and who knew him better than J, told me, he fancied it was in order to deliver them to me. May be So. I (hold otherwise have currently imputed it to his tenaciousness of a Secret which these keys are now to discover, and of which I am very dear the honest Swiss himself was ignorant: since even to me his designed heir, whom it so much concerned, he had not opened his lips about it. 
O ^ The 
2^2 
Mr. Sumners 
The first leisure moment, then, after his death, and after giving the necessary diredfion for his funeral obsequies, in the manner which he himself had positively dilated, I went to the closet, unlocked the door of it, and the first thing that struck my eyes, was a pretty thick folio book, laid on a kind of writing table, and which hastening to open, I found was a Schedule or inventary of his whole fortune, written in the most legible hand, and in the clearest order. 
Mr. Arnold had always passed for rich; but that being a vague general term, gives no positive idea of the Specific degree of opulence which constitutes that title. Now, though, considering the nature and greatness of his dealings, combined with his Spirit of parsimony, it was humanly Speaking not possible for him to escape, as he had wlstied to do, the being reputed rich, contrary to the common run of misers, who though they affect the outside of poverty, are nevertheless pleased with the reputation of wealth, and especially with the mean refpeo: commonly paid to it. He had, however, by the most Sedulous endeavours and most guarded attention to the gratification of his and his wife’s peculiar humour of concealment. So far Succeeded, that no one’s conjectures or Suspicions had ever come near to the reality of that imraenfe fortune, which he had amassed; and of which this book contained the clearest documents and indications. There were not only, in it, the refpeclive references to his proofs of great property, in all the great Banks of Europe, Such as thofeof London, Amsterdam, Venice, Genoa, the Steur of Saxony, chut to Substantial Securities of mortages, of bills, of bonds from Public Companies, and of various other articles of that kind, and all of them most easily and most readily to be realised and converted into casti. There were also the deeds of two large estates, 
which 
so Mr. S T A N L E Y. 
293 
t 
1. 
which he had purchased in Gloucester and Kent, in his own nanae, with only the more Secrecy for his having affected none, unnoted by any but Such parties as were immediately concerned, and which I found he had. Since my arrival, and without mentioning a Syllable of it to rnyfelf, left to me by particular astignment, on a presumption, perhaps, that the general devise in his will was not sufficient. In Short, I found that nothing had been omitted by him, rhat could enlighten or Secure me, in obtaining or keeping poltefllon of that great fortune, which be had bequeathed me; and so strifitly Speaking, great it was, that I was obliged to consume near a week in barely going over the various articles, and ascertaining their refpedifive references: the whole amounting to such a Sum as I can hardly venture to Specify to you. It was not only beyond my imagination, but beyond any wishes that I could have dared to form. 
Then his books, which were kept with admirable accuracy, and in which I could observe but two hands his own, and that of Mrs. Arnold, clearly pointed out the Sources of this astonishing accumulation of wealth. It is true, there appeared on them fnndry branches of dealing, but the principal spring head was absolutely in our own change alley. 
Mr, Arnold had, it Seems, long made a profound study of the nature, essence, fluquations, and causes of ssufituation of our stocks; by a constant Series of bold and shrewd Speculations upon which he had improved an originally not inconssderable capital into that stupendous one of which I now found myself in posseshon. 
He had not only made occassonally Sundry trips to London, but had kept, till two or three years before his death. Special messengers and advice boats, stationed for the Speedier conveyance to him of any in 
O 3 telligence 
I 
2: 4 
Mr. Sumners 
telligence that could affe6l his transactions in that way. 
I found also afterwards, that, upon his plan of concealing the enormous swell of his fortune, he never made more bitter complaints of ill luck, in that Species of gaming, than when he had gained by it some considerable advantage. 
But what was more singular yet, he most heartily despised this very branch of dealing, by which he was making these exorbitant profits. There was, however, in this nothing paradoxical. This very contempt gave him the greater coolness both in his speculations and reduction of them to practice. Though our jonathan’s and garravvay’s were to him, in virtue of his correspondences, the mines of Mexico and Peru, he treated, in confidential letters and converfatioij, the whole System of them, with the utmost disapprobation. Independently of the total needlesthefs of contracting the public debt on which they were founded, he Saw nothing in the reigning practice of stock jobbing, but the calenture of the year 1720, which had made So many take the South-sea for green fields, and drown themselves in it, Since then converted into a continual slow fever, that would only the more certainly consume and destroy the body politic : and, indeed, what better could beex pecled? The fair Spirit of commerce, the meritorious courage of attempting new discoveries, had Seen the streams of wealth, that used to Supply those Salutary channels, pefnicioufly diverted and running into that Spurious one, the navigation on which, in paper vessels, Mr. Arnold used, not quite unhumoroufly, to say, was, literally Speaking, in the way of a trade wind, or rather itself a wind trade; fincea’paltry, ridiculous, unauthentic puffin the news paper could make fair cr foul weather, rise or fall the stocks. This he had often experienced; having Sometimes gained from one to two, 
or more thousands of pounds by nonsense of this 
kind 
to Mr. St a n L e y. 
295- 
kind. 
And, in this course, his losing was comparatively very rare, which was owing to his Superior knowledge and constant alertness at watching events, and gaining the earliest true intelligence, or at making the most of false. considering, then, the advantages of a cool experienced gamester, at So long a run, amidst the pastions of heat and unskilful players, the wonder was intirely’taken off to me of his having been able, in a term of near half a century’s close application to that single objeq:, to a mass the fortune he did. The point of surprise lay in his havingfo effetluallly concealed it, to his endeavours at which he must have been little less than astave; 
The very disorders, however, and weak fide of the stocks, which none knew better than he who had gotten so much by them, made him bethink himself in time of drawing out his great stake in them, and of realising the Sums he had amassed in them. 
Among other reasons, which he gave, in a letter to a friend, and which I will deduce to you more at large, when I have the pleasure of feeing you, he very fensibly observed, that the national debt could not go on augmenting ad injinitum; that it was more likely the fabric would first fall to the ground, by its foundations being overbuilt: that if that cafe was not already in existence, it imminently threatened to be foin the meanwhile, his availing himself of the current practice, did not hinder his making another not less judicious reflection. On the trite but undeniable principle, that in all human affairs there is a certain line or measure beyond which there is no going with impunity, he averred it demonstrable, though the cafe was certainly a rare one, and even at the first view bordered on the paradoxical, that an excess of real wealth might, .for reasons not difficult to give, be hurtful to a nation; and if so, how much more pernicious must be an over flow of fidlitious wealth. Such as actually exists in the prodigious glut of our 
O 4 paper 
2q6 
Mr. Sumners 
paper mill coinage; not the least of its mischiefs being that of railing, on so craxy a bottom, the prices of all the necessaries of life, to the manifest injury of the community, and especially of our commerce, foreign and domestic, the solid advantages of which have been so impolitically Sacrificed to an unwholesome bloated appearance of false opulence, from a nation’s being mortgaged without necessity, and posterity Burdened without deserving it, and all without one valuable end being gained for it, but much the contrary. 
In the fear, then, of worst, and with that Spirit of caution So natural to the love of money, ever Seeking its greatest Security, Mr. Arnold had latterly begun to take measures for that thread’s not breaking in his hands, on which his fortune in the funds hung, and Sat about winding out of them, as Snug and as ur.observed as he could pof sibly contrive to do. I heartily hope, however, that his apprehensions were rather the produce of a timidity constitutional to himself, than of a rational mistrust; ‘ and that the edifice of the stocks may" be like the leaning tower of Afinelli near Bologna, which always appears to threaten a fall, without ever falling. 
Upon the plan, then, of the Solldest realisation, he, at length, converted the bulk of his fortune into various articles of the Safest nature. Nor do I mention but as a very Small part Some bulses of diamonds and jewels, to a pretty large amount, which I found in the drawers of his bureau. 
But there was one inconsistency which I confess struck me a good deal, considering his unquestionable knowledge and sense of the value of interest. along the back part of the closet, there Stood., on the floor, a range of thirteen chests., rather Somewhat larger than the common size of the thousand pound ones for stiver bullion, or dollars for exportation. On opening the chests, they were, 
accord 
to Mr. Stanley. 


according to the Specification in his books, full of the gold coins of various nations. But, I own, I could not conceive any fatisfa6lory reason why he had thus suffered, at least some of them, tp ste dead for many years, the cords, with which they were tied, being rotten with age. The interest of them must, in that presumable time, have ampunt 
near if not quite double the sum. how there they were, and I immediately sent for security, to be deposited, for me, in the Bank of Amsterdam. This alone was clearly a 
ed to ever, them 
princely fortune. 
On finding, then, this glut of wealth So suddenly, so unexpefiledly poured in upon me, how much was I not indebted to that philosophical cast of mind with which my father had inspired me,, and which hindered my head from being turned with it? My great point then was, to stand on my guard against that infatuating quality, for which, opulence is so deservedly infamous: Fortune being so fond of Folly, that where she does not find men fools, she makes them so. Of one thing, however, I am very sure, that if I cannot ennoble my fortune by the use I hope to make of it, I shall ever fpum with disdain the thought of my fortune’s ennobling me. Nor can I conceive anything so very despicable as a money made Lord, except a Lprd by descent degraded, or, more properly speaking, unmade, by such a sordid attachment to lucre, as is absolutely uncompatible with the ideas of honour, once annexed to that distin6lion; but now pretty well abolished, since vanity is Seen capable of erecting the very dirtiest money grubs into Peers, as a varice is of finking the most illustrious Peers into the arrantest money grubs. 
As fbon, however, as I was clearly Satisfied of, everything, I wrote ray father a fuccinfit account of my success, and gave the letter to Mr. Haynes, a Gentleman, who was going over to England, and 
O 5 whom 
298 
Mr. Sumners 
whom I overtook, about a month afterwards, at Helvoetstuys, when he had, by a very uncommon accident of a contrary wind of so long a duration, been detained above three weeks, as he was waiting there to go by the packet; so that my poor father died without the satisfaction of knowing my succession to that fortune, which was so much endeared to me, by the prospect of sharing it with him, and of rendering the remainder of his life more easy, and more commodious. 
During that month, I had so fettled all affairs, and so fecrflrely quieted my possessions, that I could with peifedt tranquillity quit Amsterdam, to return to my native country, where I was determined to be entirely governed by my father’s advice, and not even to take a Single servant or domestic, or make any the least (how, till I stiould have his opinion and direction. 
As to the honest old Swiss and his wife, who had been long faithful Servants to my uncle I raised their annuity from four hundred to twelve hundred florins a year; and, what will make you laugh, 1 could hardly prevail on them to accept it; not that they did not love money; not that they piqued them selves on generosity; but the augmentation appeared out of rule to them : in the hardness of their heads they had no conception but of the letter of the legacy, and almost dreaded Some trap in the addition. However, they were foont convinced, thankful, and very well pleased. 
But before I leave Holland, with which I conclude this letter, with reference to the next post for continuation, allow me one Summary stricture on the national chara6ter of the Dutch. By what I could see of them, in my very Short stay in their county, where I was too much engrossed by my private affairs, to make any valuable general observations, they appear to me to be, to the test of mankind, what the bes are to the animal kingdom. 
a 
to Mr. S T A N L E Y. 
299 
a Solitary kind of beings, hived a part, the freebooters of every plant or flower that offers them honey always murmuring, incessantly intent on their work ready with their slings for any diflurbers, induflriousj but unsocial. 
I am afraid, too, that their hive is liable to be pillaged by bad neighbours; but as the old saw has it, “Let the Bees look to that.” 
I am, yours, c. 
Leonard Sumners. 
LETTER XXXVII 
Mr. leonardsumne rs to Mr. Charles' 
Stanley, Merchant at Hamborough. 
ldtlcdjjilv^ •'f 
Resuming, dearcharlcs, where I broke off in my last,, to tell you, that I embarked one morning at Helvoetfluys,, and arrived So early the next at Harwich, that I could with the greatest ease lay my account with breakfafling at trevil’s, whose country house lies but three miles out of Harwich on the northern road, justin my way as I was direcsfly making my point for lanca fliire, to my father’s place of retirement. 
It can, I presume, be no news to you, that by the unexpected dropping of two elder brothers, he is lately come to an estate of a good two thousand a year, befldes a considerable Sum in the funds: a windfall, that had raised him from the lowest cir gumftances imaginable, which you well know, to ease and affluence. 
To say the truth, I prefigured to myself great pleasure in his being the first bid acquaintance I should meet with in England, and' in embracing him as doubly my brother, both in adversity and good fortune. All my pain was, the fear of being so overwhelmed with caresses and civilities, that I ffiould find it difficult to get away with that exrr 
pedition. 
300 
Mr. S u M ir E r s 
\ 
pedition, which my duty and destre to See my sa there required. 
I proceeded, then, thither in a post-chaise, being pre affured that he was at his seat. Stopping at the door, I Sent up my name, and after waiting a good deal longer in the servant’s hall than the urgency of ray time would allow, at length down he came to me. I ran to embrace him, expecting to be met with out stretched arms, when I could not but observe, that he rather drew back and flinched from me, keeping his hands behind him, very probably across, for the sure avoiding my stiaking him by them. He contented himself, then, with only making a slight inclination of the head, in return for my cordial and friendly Salutation. But what painter could do justice to that face of his? Such a mixture of forbidding reserve, and majestic haughtiness, as distanced every idea of familiar compellation! 
This reception immediately struck me"with the character of the man, and I was determined to enjoy it, and to give myself the Sport of drawing him out to the utmost length of my line. 
After, then. Such a look, and Such a how d’ye, as made me plainly feel the wind was in a cold corner, and my some time pilades’s friendship at the freezing point, he bid me welcome, with an air that gave him the lie, and Satisfied me that he wished me at the devil. This gave me my cue; and I had the malice to tell him, I was just landed from Flolland, where! had been on a certain affair, and being bound to the North, I was come to take a dinner with him. 
He told me, he was horridly out of luck that he could not have that pleasure, but that he was indispensably engaged to his neighbour Lord Gossamer. To Lord Gossamer 1 thought I; a wretch, that a man of any taste or honour would have preferred 
the penance of walking twenty miles barefoot, to 
the 

kj J.VJU • 

t' I 
!‘i 
I 
I' 
i 
•• U 
« k 
: i 
■d 
the horror and stupidity of a quarter of an hour Spent with him. I was only Sorry within me to believe, that, on this occasson, trevil’s excuse was a lie. Its being true, was what I should havo wished for his punishment sake. As to his pretended engagement, it was certainly no disappointment to me; who sooner than dine with him, after what I had room to think of him, would have sat down to a meal with the hangman’s helper. 
He then offered me a dish of chocolate, but in so slight a manner, that I was obliged to refuse it, resolving to trust rather to the next stage for my breakfast. 
But what shocked me beyond measure was, his telling me, with such an air of indifference, mixed with insult, of a distress befallen my father, by an arrest, out of which he was, he added, immediately relieved by yours, that I could with great voluptuousness of scorn have spit in his face. This piece of news changed, however, my purpose of proceeding in a chaise, to that of riding post, for the sake of greater speed, and became remotely the cause of that fall, of which I am but just recovering. 
I was, by this time, all on fire to be gone, and yet could not resist the temptation of playing off my last reserve of sport with him. I then put on an humble grave face, and desired him to lend me twenty guineas, (observe, I said to hnd^ not to y, though he owed me at least twice as much, which I had, at tixes. Spared out of my poor pittance, to relieve him, in very ugly situations.) To this, “my “dear friend, ” (you remember that was the name he used to give himself to me) answered, with, a visage cafe harden against every impression of shame, 
. that he really had no cash by him, but that if a guinea would be of any Service to me, there it was, and hoped he should see me in town, when he would do me any good office that lay in his power. 
I took 
302 
Mr 

I took the guinea, and to his great surprise, the window being open, I slammed it out, with a Smile of the most consummate disdain: an action for 
which I aflc pardon of the poor for the wrong it did them, as it would have better bestowed in charity to them, than thrown away, on the imaginary punishment of a fellow beneath it. Imaginary I call it, for I dare answer, that he did not even feel it: or if he did, it was absorbed in his hugging himself on having Saved the other nineteen. 
Upon this, giving him such a look as he deserved, without Speaking a word, I Spun upon my heel, master enough of myself not to stoop to any explanation with him, or to Satisfy him of my having fifty times at least, the Sum about me, in cash and notes, requisite to carry me to my journey’s end. His thoughts were too much beneath ray consideration, to throw away one of mine upon what they were, or might be. 
On flinging myself into the chaise, which I was to change at the next stage, for post horses,! could not help recollefling your juster judgement of tre vil, in whom'you had always Seen the rascal through his hundred folds. You are sensible he knew a great deal of what is called the Town: and currently enough passed, in the jargon of it, for a devilish honest fellow. Neither did he whnt for a sort of wit? he could tell a story with Some grace, humour a ballad, ^ and fifty other Small qualities, that took with one so young, and unexperienced as I was. I never could find in my Heart to fufpe6t him of not having one. But above all, his ingratitude was what shocked me, which, as one of our poets (Thompson) justly expresses it, is “high “treason against mankind.” He had obligations to my father, he had obligations to me, who, had often watched his wants, that I might have the pleasure of preventiug his application to me on the 
fixed 
to Mr. k T A N L E Y. 
30 
3 
I 
I 
I 
fixed principle with me, that he who, knowing a friend’s distress, and having it in his power to relieve him, does not from his own mere motion relieve him, has already in his heart denied him, or if he waits to do it, for his alking him, he overfells the benefit. You know I have even borrowed money of you to lend him, and, in that, did more for his wants, than I ever did for my own. And this was the retribution. 
However, dear Charles, in this confefllon to you of my defeat of judgement, in suffering Such a wretch to impose himself on me for a friend, I am glad to make you honourable amends for my having too crudely, imputed to you too great a Severity of opinion, in your contempt of him. 
I am also really obliged to him for this warning, which will have this good effect, that in future, I Shall be more cautious, but not more unwilling to do good offices. I even think myself piqued in honour, to atone by Services to the worthy, for my folly of having so much misplaced my obligation on So ungrateful a monster. Yet, after all, is he such a monster, at least, in point of rarity? I am afraid not. I fancy he rather represents in general the World. 
But enough, and too much on so loathfom a subject. I have done with it for ever. And now an indispenfabie interruption hinders me from going on with my narrative. I refer you then to the next post. Yours, dec. Leonard Sumners. 
LET 

• rv 

$04 
Mr. S U M N E R S 
Letter XXXVIII 
illir, eeo N A RD S U MNERS to Mr CHARLES Stanley, Merchant at tjamborougb. 
I N my journey, dear Charles, to the Northward I met with no ssnister accident, till, I say, I touched the end of it, when I was fling from my horse, by a Sudden start, and rather (orely than dangerousty hurt. The particulars of it, your worthy father tojd me he had written to you, as well as of the kind deception employed to conceal from me for same time my father’s death. The repetition here then would be fuperstuous. 
I had been carried, stunned and senseless, into Mr. mellefont’s, a clergyman of great worth, and goodness of character, where all the requisite assistance was instantly procured for roe. As Soon as I was in a condition to receive the visits of the family, Mr. Mellefont introduced his wife, attended by her younger Sister, Miss Clara Maynwaring. But when this young lady came to pay me, in her turn, a compliment of condolence on my accident, during which, I could not help looking at her; I own to you that I must have made, even in the light of common civility, a most contemptible figure; for Surely the most consummately ill-bred clown could hardly have exhibited a broader stare of surprise and wonder at any objet, than I did, just then, at the first sight of this miracle of beauty. It was a blaze that overpowered me : a rapture that kept my eyes motionless, and fixed on the di vinest face that in my life I ever beheld. I could, with pleasure have answered her by an exclamation : Angels are ye, are you not all in Heaven? ** For fprely this is a more than mortal beauty.” Perhaps I stiould actually have broke out into some Such intemperate sally of admiration, if I could 
have 
to Air. Stanley. 
s05 
I cannot be 
have articulated my words clearly. 
Sure that what I did Say was not worse, for I can safely Swear, that I do no not know what f Said; nor, I believe, they either; my utterance was So confused and unintelligible. So much the better. No words could have done justice to my Sentiments. 
But when I reflefied on the combination of the exquisite beauty of her most delicately featured countenance, enlivened with the frefhest colours, and of the most perfect modelled Shape, with the enchantment of her naturally melodious voice, now still more softened by that strain of tender pity, which melted on her tongue, and glistened in her eyes suffused with tears, my whole heart was forced to agree to the confession I inwardly made to myself, that Clara fulfilled to me the Sublimest i dea of the power of her Sex to charm, that the human imagination could form. And yet I did not then know half her excellencies: those of her mind were, if possible, equal to their perfedli ons of her person. 
Believe me, dear Charles, there is not a fillable of exaggeration in this. If you do me justice, you may remember that I am not of the most inflammable temper, and have Seen very great beauties, with very little emotion. To Say the truth, all the women that S had ever besore Seen, rose, to my recollection, in no better view, than as the common flowers of the field; while Clara appeared to me the perennial rose to be worn in the bosom. It was reserved for her goodness to rivet the chains in which her beauty had begun to hold me. 
It was, then, at Some of those times which that hospitable family might judge hung heavy on my hands, in the course of my recovery, that Clara, in her turn, or fupplementally for her lister, 
would bless me with her company, Sit by me, pity 
my 
3o6 
Mr. Stanley. 
my pains, and sooth my impatience. It was in those delightful moments that, without affefiation, without intention of display, (he let me discover in her. So cultivated an understanding. Such an admirable fund of sense, as defended her good nature from any fuspicion of weakness, and exalted it into a virtue, which made all the other virtues in her, the more conspicuous and the more amiable. There was in her So graceful a modesty, so Sweet an un pretendingness, Such an unaffected ignorance of the power of her charms, as astonifhed and captivated me. Formed to be one of the greatest ornaments of Society, stie Seemed nevertheless, in her air and conversation, to breathe nothing so much as a taste for the Shades of retirement, and the Simplicity of domestic life. She was at that very time com ted, followed, hard preffed, by persons of the first distinction and fortune in the country and declined them all without affecting it, and without, perhaps, herself knowing that She was declining them. And yet she did not disdain to come occasionally into my stck room, and pass hours without any Show of reluctance or disgust, granting to pity what she had denied to love. ' Nor, by anything that ever es caped her to say, vasi led to conjeclure, what I afterwards learned, by other means, that she had refused the most advantageous proposals on the most honourable terms, for no reason assignable but that of her not liking the parties enough to listen to them. 
But what had the greatest power to enstave me, was the pure difinterestednefs and nobility of Sentiment, which were so unfufpiciousty signalised, by her condescension, her assiduity, her care of one like me, in the character of an unfortunate and distressed person. To that very circumstance it was So plain, my owing her redoublement of attention 
to 
U Mr. St A N L e y. 
307 
to me, that I never let a hint escape me of that change of my fortune, of which, in the delicacy of my love, I absolutely Should have been jealous. 
And here let me confess a fault, and a great one. The passion with which she has inspired me — But hold, do not let me give to So virtuous So rational a love as mine, the name of a weakness; my love produced, however, a weakness. It was the cause, the undoubted cause, that the charms I found in her company, making me forgetful of the past, and improvident of the future, in favour of that enjoyment of the present, in which I was totally absorbed, contributed not a little to my meeting more than halfway their innocent deception of me, as to the fate of my poor father; and, though I certainly did not fufpedf his demise, to render me less Solicitous than I ought to have been to procure more circumstantial intelligence about him. But when were credulity and neglect of duties not the failures of those in my condition? Lovers believe everything like children, or break through everything like madmen. I had greedily Swallowed a gross enough illusion, and had omitted Some very important incumbences, both of filial regard, and of the dispatch of my affairs, which you will easily think were immediately urgent. But what of all that? I was in love to distraction, and thought of nothing but itsobjeft., 
I was in this Situation of mind, when your father came down to me, and, with the properest preparation, acquainted me of my father’s death, and of the motives of tenderness from which it had been concealed from me. It was then that love yielded for a moment its empire to the feelings of nature; and I had nearly sunk under the Severity of the stroke, but for the absolute dominion Clara 
had 
to 
Mr, Stanley 
had over me, even without knowing it herself. Her confblations assuaged. Soothed, calmed, my grief, and amidst all the gloom of it, drew even Smiles of joy from me, at her entering So compassionately into it, and especially at her continuance in the mistake (for I had desired your father not to mention my circumstances) of the state of my fortune, as it helped to keep up that Sentiment of pity, of which I felt all the advantages to my love, and, let me add, to my delicacy of love. 
Another fault of lovers is, that they imagine every one to whom they relate the progress and particulars of their fuccess, is as interested in it as they are theirselves. conscious of this dear Charles, I will Spare you all the gradations through which 1 at length arrived at that critical step, a declaration. 
I did not make it till I had, be it said without the least tincture of a coxcomb’s vanity, prepared my fuccess; and perhaps by nothing So much as by my real diffidence of it; till, to clara’s honour be it observed, it was from my high opinion of her clear Spirit of candour, that I derived, at length, the necessary courage. I flattered myself, that I could not be mistaken in the hopes which her eyes, her looks, her tone of voice gave me, of my having led her, by rnsenstble degrees, from a Sentiment of pity to a Sentiment of esteem, and from that to a yet more tender one. 
‘the necessity approaching of my removal, on the visible forwardness of my recovery, I had no time to lose. After, then, taking my resolution, on the first opportunity of clara’s being alone with me, I threw myself at her feet, and with all the modesty of a fear inseparable from genuine love, laid before her the state of my heart. 
Clara, who had not Suffered me to go on, till she had raised me from that Supplicant posture. 
Seemed 
to Mr. S T A N L E Y. 
309 
Seemed to listen to all I Said, without any Sign of anger or displeasure. But when I expected her answer, she gave me no other than that of bursting out into tears and deep sighs. At this, nothing could equal my surprise, but my pain for having occasioned anything like grief, to one for whom I would have laid' down a thousand lives. I ap 
> as I really was, under the greatest consternation and dejection of Spirit. But I had not long to languisti under this torturous suspense. As soon as Clara had recovered her Speech, she desired me not to be alarmed or hurt at her expression of grief; that the cause of it was very far from injurious to me; ssnce it was entirely owing, not to the novelty of her receiving declarations, to which it had never cost her any effort to give a peremptory denial, but that, in her present Situation, her terror, her grief arose from the difposttion. So new to her, of her own mind to listen to me, at the expense of that liberty of heart, which she had hitherto possessed, and which she had cherished as her Supreme blessing. — That, having always thought nothing more dishonourable than dissimulation, she would not now begin to use it with one who had inspired her with Sentiments before unknown to her, and whose happiness was Secure, if he made it depend on anything in her power to contribute to it. This answer, she added, did not come from her easi nefs, or weakness, but from her judgement, which had decided everything in my favour. 
I had, dear Charles, often heard and red of instances of dying of joy; I now do not believe a stllable of its poshbility, or I could never have Survived the rapture into which this her acceptance of my Suit threw me. I remained mute with ecstasy. No matter. Such a Silence had 
more 

••• 

- - -»»« 
■^10 
%>' 
Mr. Sumners 
more of eloquence in it, than all that I could have had liberty enough of heart to utter. But, O power of Love! O charm of Sentiment! what an increase of beauty did you not give to the divine Clara! What a true glory did fly not derive from that noble Superiority of her’s, to the false honour of trifling with torture by prolonging suspense. What obligation had I not to her, for all the pain she Spared me? I was, however, happy enough to make her sensible of all the esteem that my gratitude for this procedure, added to my love; she believed me, nay, readily believed me, and why? Not, I assure you, from any weakness of preposseffion in my favour, but because I was ssn cere in all I Said; and because truths from the heart are irressstible. 
For the first time, then, I ventured to Snatch her hand, and imprint on it a kifs, burning with the fervour of the purest Sentiment; and she was rather struggling to withdraw it, when all on a Sudden, Mr. Mellefont, followed by Mrs. melle font, came into the room, and Surprised us, most certainly, without any design to surprise us, and merely to bring Clara a letter just received by the post, and which they knew by the Superscription to be from their aunt, one Mrs. Buckley. 
I cannot say but I was Somewhat hurt and confounded at their interruption of us, just at that critical juncture But on a moment’s reflefilion, recollesting myself, and before Clara could take the letter out of his hand, I addressed myself to Mr. Mellefont; and with an air of as little prefump tioni as if my fortune had been in no better a condition than what appearances placed it, I made the overture to him of my honourable pretentions to his sister. To do him but justice, he heard me with great politeness and respedf, without answering a word, till fixing his eyes p, n Clara, who modestly 
Mr 
311 
r 
deftly dejefled hers, and reading in her looks that this my application was not unauthorised by her consent; he told me, with the best grace imaginable, that clara’s disposal of herself was entirely in her own power; that, nevertheless, if his opinion was of any weight with either, he did not Avilh to with hold it : that from his whole soul he ratified her choice with the highest approbation, sofar as what he was pleased to call my personal merit, was concerned; but that with as clear a contempt for mere refpe6ls of interest, as the Spirit of his profession, Superior to that word ly consideration could require, he was only afraid that the mediocrity of clara’s fortune might not fuffize, so young as we were, for Supporting the appearance his regard for us made him wisti we Should make; and that especially he was apprehensive of its throwing an obstacle in my way to the pusti ing my advancement, and to the bettering my circumstances. 
(At this last hint I gave a Smile, for which, I dare Swear, they were all of them, Clara included, at a loss to account.) He then went on with remonstrances drawn from the worthiest friendship, and the tenderest esteem for both of us, and concluded wdth observing, that he had not been in the least, in all he had Said, meaning to refuse his concurrence to our determination, and that a reason was not a denial; as he, would prove to us by the alacrity with which he would acquit himseif of the sun61; ion of his office, in uniting us. 
Upon this he gave his aunt’s letter to Clara, who in the style of politeness, asking me leave to read it, withdrew towards the window. Mr. mel lefont and his wife remained with me, assuring me, very obligingly, that they were neither Sorry nor Surprised at this event, which they had anticipated 
w 
Mr. Sumners 
ticipated by what they had observed of us both. We were, then, infenlibly Aiding into a perfeq; good understanding, when Clara called to them both, and dessred them to join with her in the re perufal of his aunt’s letter to her. I kept, in the meanwhile, at a little distance; while presently Mr. meuefont ran to me, and taking me by the hand, told me, that certain points in that letter had greatly removed his objection, which, however, had never been a very violent one, to the incompetency of clara’s fortune for the happiness of both. At this I stared a little at him, and looking at Clara, who had followed him, I thought I observed her eyes sparkle with joy, which I afterwards found was owing to the Aiare Ihe took in the fatisfaffion of a certain Lady Harriet, of whom Aie had often spoken to me, without ever mentioning the sacrifice stie had made of Lord soberton’s offers, to the truth of her friendship for her, and to her own strict ideas of honour. 
As to the accellions to her fortune, mentioned in that letter, they were rather, it Seems, matter of doubt with her as to the point of her accepting them, than of exultation. This doubt I was happily enabled soon to dissipate. 
It was now high time for me, after my being thus doubly, indeed, convinced of the dissnterested nefs and purity of sentiments of this worthy family, to declare myself, and to leave not a shadow of scruple about my circumstances, which I had hitherto, with such an honourable intention, less myself dissembled, than I had suffered the appearances of them to fubssst. After a proper preface, I laid open to them the real Situation of my fortune, which could not but be superior to their most sanguine imaginations; and I laid it open with that true and unaffe6fed indifference to it, which became one that had never entertained a 

thought 
-4 
to Mr. Stanley. 
3h 
thought of being obliged to it for any recommendation. And let me do justice to that clear fpi rited family, and to Clara especially; I did not find that the discovery affected them much, or her, in the least, with any delight. On the contrary, I had reason to think myself happy, that it did not do me a prejudice in her opinion; for nothing could be more certain, than that the presumed distress of my circumstances had not a little contributed to my winning her, by the Sentiment of pity, which they had excited. In short, she barely forgave my hot being So unfortunate as I had appeared. 
However, all being now referred to myself, as to the acceptance of those offers contained in Mrs. buckley’s letters relating to Clara, I acquiesced in her receiving some jewels destgned her for a wedding prefent by Lady Harriet, on the footing of friendship, because I proposed to contrive Some return of twice the value. But the money which was to accompany them, Clara will absolutely refuse, with all the politeness due to the good ness of heart from which it is offered. 
As to the donation of a Small estate, in Lady harriet’s name, but which came originally from Lord Soberton, my delicacy would not allow of her having Such an obligation to any one but myself, though Surely the motive of the donation, does immortal honour to clara’s virtue and greatness of soul. Mr. Mellefont takes it upon him to e a proper colour and Softening to this refusal; as well as to that of a living, very nobly offered him by the Marquess, but which his delicacy will not Suffer him to accept, for reasons I cannot but highly approve; and, indeed, rejoice at, constdering how much it is in my power and inclination to make him ample amends for the self-denial. 
VOL. III 
P 
V 
3’4 
To Mrs, Buckley. 
Everything, then, dear Charles, is Settled per fe£hy to my desire. I only wait now the time that decency requires, for the celebration of the nuptials that will make me the happiest, of mankind. I lay my account with my being fully recovered by then, and hope I may depend on your Speedy return to this country, for more reasons than one, but for none so strong as that of friendship, and of my desire of gratefully proving mine to you, now it is in my power. 
Yours, & c. 

Leonard Sumners 
- T 
<50 


LETTER XXXIX 
'Exiradi of a Letter from Mr. .mellefont U 
Mrr. Buckley. 
• ^ 
hancajhire. 
— — THIS very day I have had the exquisite pleasure of doing the office of uniting the most amiable pair that I know in the world; the thoroughly recovered Mr. Sumners to Clara Maynwaring, under the united auspices of Love and Sionor.? 

Edward Mellefont. 
E N D 

U, of Pa. 
Library 
