
T H E
LA BYRINTHS
O F
L




V O L I.

T
1 -. v.. '
'■ /
> •'
,
X' '.
•.
t »•
. <•
♦

'K
\ *
I •
VI
.
ST
• «
« N.


A *•
.
• -- * a


\.
'4
I
« • ft

t
r
; .i
r t
#
»
/
> %

H »
’ \
■'■ sr
.m
fi'
'•-

V

ba
■V


. • t
•C. w '
r •
THE
ABYRINTHS

I
o F
F
E.
A
NOVEL.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
EXCESSI VE SEN SIBILITY,
AND FATAL FOLLIES.
IN FOUR VOLUMES
V O L I.
iolin’‘r**johnstor.

LONDON:
*•
PRINTED FOR G. G. J. AND J. ROBINSON,
4
PATERNOSTER-ROW, I^QI.
A VF

V *

fac
r
•
si
v
> »
it
■•
’f*,
t
t C f -

■: ■ ■
•- -•- : • er
iv, ■■■•,


- '
'-^'
'T ^ tc /..'

/

O ■ • ' •<», '
-■; N; L

T O
•
E R G R A G E:
THE DUCHESS OF LEEDS,

sp
0
>


4
., ^1 "
r
, 0f
■;
«.


L
<; £
if
f’

V
ta

I
f
V
<.
V ‘
CC ‘
C
M A D A Mi
THOUGH the praaice of dedi.
Gating books to distinguished cha —
%
<
racters has, like other things beeai
perverted in Some instances to low
purposes, yet in its origin it was'
'«
unnaiural nor unuseful The ancient writers,. from whom:
VOL I,
A
the

11
DEDICATION.
the practice of dedication is derived, were wont to address their compositions, in the outset, to. Some respected friend, whom they
kept in their eye throughout the progress of the work; from whence there was derived a twofold advantage

The author was animated
with the idea that at least one good judge, whom he was ambitious
to please, would read what
\
he wtote: and, in wniting, the same idea operated as a monitor, that no Sentiment or exprefsioii Should be Suffered to escape the

pen of the author, that the judge'
'/
the taste, or the virtue of
the
D E DI C A T IO N.
• • •
m
the party addrested might be ready to condemn.
It is on these principles that I have presurned to address to your Grace " , intended to strew, that amidst all the fluctuations of human affairs,,
however Surprising, there is, Sooner
or latter, a reward for patient and
persevering probity and honour;
#
«
I Shall be' exceedingly happy if
this trifle Shall afford a few hours
amusement to your Grace : for I
have a Sincere respect for your
graces personal acomplishments
and virtues, as well as for the noble family of Leeds,, and the
f
^ most


• A
B E D IC A T IO K.
most amiable and respected noble*
I
man who now represents, it.
I have the honour to be
9
Madam,
Your grace’s most obedient.
humble Servant,.
THE AUTHOR




VI
•'rp...


: > yo *
7 — Ka' ••.*••

- .*.'+ 'c
■’ • .-••^ • r'
'' <•- = ^ •
'• ' - •=, 'J. '
•■->-*'• I .'
■ ■' .*
.„• - 'I

THE
 ,
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
WILLIAM RAYMOND, esq.
MY DEAR SIR,
Harewood Grove
I '
Arrived at this place last night about eight o’clock, after a very
M.
I met with
I '
my friend Charles and his lister Emma, who came there on purpose to meet me. There appears a perfect harmony in this amiable family.
B Every
VOL, I,
2

Every one is studious to please. Even the Servants Seem to have caught the manners of their master. I cannot conceive a happier situation for a man far advanced in years than that of Mr. Vernon, surrounded by his children, all studious to render the decline
of life as easy as possible, and postest
#
withal of an ample fortune, which enables him to reward the duty, and provide for the future happiness of his posterity, vvte are to be very gay whilst I remain here. Indeed where happiness so constantly reside?, it is not nostible that dulnefs.should
i.
long be a guest. A country life is Surely the most to be wished for. There is a Something in the stillnefs of the Scene, that tends to tranquillize the mind j So many objects that call
forth our admiration and wonder,
which

3
which are never Seen in the busy tumultuous city; or is Seen, looked on with the eye of indifference. The man
of bufiness has not time to view nature in her loveliest garb, and the man of fashion, runs disgusted from everything that seems to reproach him for the follies of which he is daily guilty. Artificial life and artificial manners, are what they are engaged in: nor would they bepleased with that man, who should endeavour to reason them out of their folly. I wonder what apology they can make to themselves, when they cast their eyes on
strudures mouldering into ruins, formerly the Seats of hos pitality and mirth, and where their ancestors laid the foundation of their fortunes, at the Same time that they materially affilled towards the aggran
B 2 dizement
magnificent
4
 .
dizement of their countryi have
been led into this way of thinking by
having this morning witnessed the
«
decay of one of these monuments of former greatness. The day being remarkably fine, Mr.vernon proposed that the ladies ifhould ride out with me, in order that I might view a beautiful profpe<5l from the extremity of a hill, not four miles distant from the Hall. Accordingly we mounted ourhorses, and arrived at this earthly paradise. It is not possible to view a richer prospect. Indeed the eye grew almost tired with the luxurio

ance of the Scene, which extends for
more than thirty miles every way,
»
over the finest green fields, woods, lakes, rivers and mountains. At length my eye was arrested by an
object not more than two miles distant.

5
tant. It was the turrets of an old castle, embosom’d in a wood which almost hid it from our view, but which, at the Same time, cast an air of grandeur and melancholy over the whole. I asked, who owned that Sweet romantic Spot. The rats are the present poffesssors, replied the Sprightly Emma. Indeed, Mr. Neville,. Said her Sister Laura, we do not know who is the owner. It had been deserted many years before we came to this part of the country. I have often rode round it, and lamented that time Should have made Such ravages on So Sweet a Spot. There was nothing more Said on the Subject; but, as we returned, the ladies wished' to pay a morning visit to Lady Wentworth.
I
them farther than the gate, saying
excused myself from attending
B 3
6

that I was not drested for a visit to a
fine lady, and that I would ride round the Spot I had been just admiring, and attend them in less than an hour. To this they agreed, and I arrived at Raby Castle; which, indeed exhibited a Scene of
\
desolation, and the tenants which Emma had given it. Seemed to be the only ones likely to trust themselves under its roof.
I
general
However, I
was not affrighted
from making a nearer approach, which
«
I did through a double row of stately
I
elms, forming an avenue of near a mile. In order to give you any idea of the castle, I can only say, that it bore Some resemblance to Holland house near Kensington j but was much larger, as well as built of stone, and consequently conveyed a
greater
  J
greater air of magnificence. I alighted from my horse and gave it to Miss vernon’s Servant, who came with me in order to point out the way, and without ceremony opened the front door, which I found without a lock. I entered a Spacious hall, which had formerly been laid with black and white marble, but of which very few traces were left. The staircase, which came down on each fide of it, had been also of white marble, and the walls had been adorned with Some very fine historical paintings. I could See here and there a head, an
arm
or Some other marks of figures
%
that had been defaced by the damp,
which Seemed excestive. I then opened another door, which led into
a Spacious parlour; and, to my utter astonishment, found two or three
B 4
people

people actually at dinner in one cor
of this room. Their Surprise at Seeing
a stranger of my appearance, amongst
them, being over, I took off my hat, and begged pardon for my intrusion,
which they readily granted: and an old woman asked if my Honour would like to see the castle. On this a venerable old man arose from a great chair in which he had been sitting. His back being towards
the door, 1 had not Seen him before.
See the castle. Said he, lack a days, there is nothing now left worth feeing. It makes my heart ache when I only walk 'from one room to another.” Then, friend, I presume you have Seen it in a more stourifhing state. Said I. “Yes, yes.
Sir I have Seen it, when old En
0
gland could not produce another Such house, or another Such a master.



9
ter.

Here the old man wiped a tear from his eye, with the cuff of his coat, and made an inclination of his head, as if he meant to apologise for his sensibility. The rustics arose from their meal, and went about their different occupations. The woman still insisted that his Honour did not want to stand talking so long, and that if he pleased. She would Show him the castle, and the beau tifullest prospect ever was Seen from the battlements.. Only, She said he must excuse her from Showing a particular room in that wing, which was called Lady mary’s, I inquired, the, cause— — said, because that
t
room was haunted, and though she had never seen the ghost, yet she knevi? those that had, and she was affear’d.
The man, whom I shall for the fu
B 5.

lo
ture call Simon, Said, Do not. Sir, fuppose that I pretend any of my family were ever masters here: but I was born and bred in the village, and lived Servant thirty years in this very castle. Only think, then, how it must grieve a man, to See it tumbling thus to ruin.’*
The
poor
creature was greatly affected whilst he Spoke. I could with pleasure have staid all day, to converse with him, but my watch reminded me that it was time to return to the ladies. I was obliged to promise the old woman, that I would call again to See the prospect. I put Spurs to my horse and arrived at the Hall, just as the miss Vernons, who had been joined
by my friend Charles, were remounting to return home to dinner. I related my adventure, which pleased Mr.
Vernon
  II
Vernon So much, that he intends paying old Simon a visit. I hope you will not be tired in reading my long epistle. My wish is to amuse yoursels and Mrs. Raymond, to whom I am So much indebted, and for whose health and happiness I shall constantly pray.
I am, dear Sir,
Most affectionately yours.
THEODORE NEVILLE
/
B 6
12
LADY JERSEY
T O
MISS WENTWORTH.
Portman Square.
Yo U know not, my dear Sister,
how much I wish to join you in the delightsul shades of Harewood, and to meet .the Smiles of a beloved parent; and yet I fear her penetrating eye will discover what I wish to conceal from every one, but most from her. She will find her Jemima is not that happy creature that she predidled she would be. My misery may pass unnoticed by the world — I would not have them think that Sir William has a fault; nay, So great is my affection for hirh, that I Sometimes
i think
  i3
think myself that he has none: but his indifference is So rooted, that I
cannot doubt of it, is I allow myself
/ \
to reason for a moment, and compare his former, to his present conduct. Perhaps I have unknowingly offended him: yet, he is possessed of Such' an openness of dispofition, that if it were So, I think he would tell me,
in what I had the missortune to dis please him.
Do, my dear Horatia, advise me how to act: for I am So perplexed
with my own thoughts, that I cannot determine on anything. For two years I was the happiest woman on earth : but, from that period to the present moment, I have experienced a reverse. Yet I have
4
never complained to any one, but yourself. In your bosom I wish to lock up all my sorrows. I know
you
14
you will be faithful to the trust, and that though you cannot relieve, you will sympathise with me. Sir William is Seldom at home, and I go as Seldom abroad; of course we do not often meet. I cannot remain long in this state, and I dare not look into futurity.
That I may not infect you with my melancholy, I will give you a piece of news, that Sir William has just now told me, which is, that the gay miss Berkley is going to be married to Lord St. Auban. As we are neighbours in the country, I shall of course visit her “stie will enliven us.” I wish she may, but I greatly doubt her power over me; for, where the disorder is in the mind, company rather increases
than diminishes it. I shall
expect
William
  i5
«
expert a long letter the first moment you can Spare. Your correspondence is the only gleam of comfort I have, and I know you will not refuse it.
That you, my Horatia, may never feel the misery of having lost the affection of an husband you adore, is the sincere wish of
Your friend and lister,
JEMIMA JERSEY,

l6
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY
T O
CHARLES VERNON.
Portman Square
I DON’T know what a dissipated
Sellow has to do with a wise! Here have I this morning been planning a thousand delightful excursions, and cannot execute any one of them, because I am martied — month at Brighton, six weeks at Paris, then pass on to Brussels, visit the Spa, and return when I am weary. But then my wife! — Take her with you, Say you. — That, my dear Charles, would Spoil all my pleasure— — Paris would have no more charms than my old house in
the

  IJ
♦
the country. It is true I was not compelled to matrimony — I was in love,, and that, you know, is an ex cuse for every weak or ill-bred action a man can be guilty of. 1 cannot account for the change of my Sentiments. I can only Say, I wish they had continued the Same: for 1 hate a life of insipidity. 1 haye too muph Spirits for mere humdrum matrimony.
Lady jersey, is very beautiful, very
accomplished, and very amiable, and had I never been her husband, I should have adored her to this moment. I endeavour to hide all this
s
from her: but I fear she perceives some alteration in me. If she teizes me on the fubjetst, I shall heartily hate her.
St. Auban is to be married, I hear,
next
is

next week, to miss Berkley. I wish
him joy. I think he is in the highroad
to happiness. I rnean to be a
very good neighbour, and visit xvud
lay Castle very Srequently.
I believe I shall See you Soon, for
i ^dy jersey has, this morning, asked
my permission to visit her mother
Now, to Save appearances, I shall
escort her to Harewood, stay two or
three days, and then — an excuse of
Something very particular will release
me: and, if you are not better engaged,
we will, like knight errants
of old, go in quest of adventures.
damsels are not Scarce in these days:
however, we will take our chance.
You are a happy dog : you are single;;
if you prize your own freedom,
continue So.
Now, I pray you, do not condemn
me

19
me from my own confession, that I am sick of matrimony, and suppose
r
from that, that I have formed attachments elsewhere : for this is positively not the cafe. 1 believe I am not domestic enough for the state I have entered into; and Lady yerfey is quite another creature than the sprightly yemima Wentworth. She has taken upon her all the gravity of a matron
of forty; which may be very proper. I dare say her good mother. Lady Wentworth, has told her that decorum of behaviour is necessary. I wish
that she would have let her alone;
*
for to alter one jot from what she was, must be for the worse.
Some men, I dare say, would con ssder themselves perfectly happy in what I am making a cause of complaint. They may be right, and I
wrong.
20
wrong. This is a Subject I cannot reason upon: I know just what pleases
pae, and am not, at present, inclined to think any further.
I shall, if I continue in the same mind, reach Hare wood on Thursday evening; where I expect to meet you
in order to settle our other plans.
<
Yours,
WILLIAM JERSEY.

21
MISS WENTWORTH
T O
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY.
Karewood Hall.
It was with extreme pain I received your last letter. I hoped that you was happy. I yet think you are mistaken, and Shall wait your arrival with anxiety. Our amiable mother would, indeed, be miserable, could She Sora moment suppose that an union, that took place under Such
'ijfesi.
eft.
*
Suited, could in the Short Space of three years become a Source of affliction to her child. You may be Sure your Secret Shall remain buried in
I my

2z

my breast; nor will thecause of your regret, I hope, be in existence when we meet.
You are frequently inquired after by every visitant at Harewood; and I have announced your intention of Seeing us, on Thursday, to miss Vernon, who rode over here this morning for half an hour’s chat. We have been
laying plans for some very pleasant
*
whilst you are amongst us; and if you do but contradict: your last letter, which I still think must have
been written in an hour of melan cholly, I do not know a happier party than we shall be. Lady Wentworth is just gone to See if fires are made in your apartments; as, she says, she will not trust the health of her children to the laziness of Servants. The coach is ordered by twelve o’clock
3
on
  2j
on Thursday, as we cannot wait your
arrival at home : Somewhere, on the
>
road, we shall meet you. Till when, I remain,
- y
Most affedlionately yours.
HORATIA WENTWORTH.
24

THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
Harewood Grove.
f
Have frequently promised to give you a reason for what you was pleased to call caprice in my disposition, and have very often attempted the talk; but, I know not how it is, I never could bring myself to sit down Seriously
to write what, perhaps, may lessen me in the opinion of my friend. I hope, and think you superior to vulgar prejudices, which you must Surmount before you can again asture me of the continuance of your friendship; If any one were to choose a
dist
  25
agreeable situation, I think he might exhaust his utmost invention besore he could find one more distreff ing than mine.
This declaration, perhaps, will astonish you; as, when at School, you always considered me as the nephew of Mr. Vernon. This is not the case, Edmund; for your friend, Theodore, knows not a relation of whom he could claim protection from the sever!tie? of fortune. Even in childhood to be deferred 1 The very thought chills me with horror. Unfeeling parents, to leave me to a merciless world before any ad of mine could have incurred your displeasure I— — every animal protects its young until it can protect itself; and that human Beings, instructed in the Sentiments of humanity.
VOL. I.
C
should
26
Should act thus, astonishes me. How must the generosity of Mr. Vernon affect them? And in what a point of view place their unfeeling conduct towards me } They felt Some degree of shame, no doubt, as, a few days after I was received into Mr. vernon’s family, (the manner of wshich I cannot bring myself to relate even to you) a letter
V
was left one evening for Mr. Vernon, fupposed to be written by one of my
jparents, importing, that very uncommon circumstances occasioned
their sending an infant to him, who was in no wise related to it; but desiring him to be assured, that it would be one day claimed. That it was the request of the parents, that I might have the education of a gentleman; and that there might come’ a time, when I might do honour to ‘ his
; f
I
I
u
C
  27
his generosity. inclosed, in this
V
letter, were bank bills to the amount
of one thousand pounds.
This circumstance is the only one
*
I have on which to found my weal pretenfions to the character of a gen

m
tleman.
0
From the receipt of that letter, to this day, Mr. Vernon has never heard from either of my parents; yet have I ever been treated in his family as a friend, and educated in the most liberal manner, I am now arrived at
the
age of twenty-one.
without
knowing which way to steer my course in life. Mr. Raymond points to the army; as there he says, I may have an opportunity of signa
A
lifing myself So as to force from the pride of my parents what I ought to expect from their affection and justice:
C 2
he
%
28
he can procure me a commifiion from a friend when ever I determine to accept it. There is but one reason for my not thankfully accepting this proposal. To you, arid only to
you, dare I avow my presumption miss Vernon is the obstacle. It was

impossible to see her, and not entertain a tenderer passion. She has ever treated me, without restraint, as the friend and schoolfellow of her brother. — It may be arrogance in me to say, that I have observed, or fancied that I was not indifferent to her. May not Some one, whilst Lam far distant, attending to the duties of my profestion. See her with the same partiality that I do, without the Same obstrudion to a declaration of his pastion? Yet do not suppose, Edmund, that I would take any improper
h
I.
  2g
s
per advantage of any opinion (he might entertain in my favour; for be astured, much as my future happiness depends on her, would her father offer me her hand immediately, I 1 would not now take it. I could not be dependant on the woman I loved. It would not be possible for me to Support the idea of her taking
a beggar to her arms; I Should be lessened in my own opinion. All I
at present wish for, is, that I were placed in a situation where it might not be presumption to offer my addresses to miss Vernon. Those ap proved of, I would instantly accept the commission offered me by my more than Father; and Seek in the field, same andfortune, in hopes to be rewarded with the hand of Laura,
c3
only
OQ
: 5

\
only when She should be convinced that I have deserved it.
I have wtttten you a long letter which however interesting to myself, cannot be So to you : therefore the Sooner I conclude it the better. I have only to add, that I hope the discovery of my real Situation will not shorten the duration of our friendship; and that this may only cease with our lives, is the sincere wish of.

’jit
THEODORE NEVILLE.
FS d.





3*
LAURA VERNON
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
Yo
U must excuse me,, my dear
Lady Anne, for not writing before, to acquaint you that I arrived Safe at
home, and found my Father, Emma, and Charles in perfect health, I was most agreeably surprised on the same evening, about half an hour after my arrival, by feeing Charles and Mr, Neville enter the parlour. You know my sentiments as to this amiable young man, yet I cannot help saying, that he did not appear so friendly on our first meeting as for
C 4
merly t
32
merly: and to what to attribute this
change I am at a loss.
What I used
to construe into a partiality, was not, perhaps, intended as Such on his part, and I alone am to blame, I wisti I knew his thoughts on his first .entrance into the parlour.
My Father Said, “Well, Neville, here is your old Sweetheart come to
congratulate you on your arrival, ** for he reached ihe Grove only two

wma
hours before myself. I believe I looked very foolish, for Charles laughed very heartily. Mr. Neville came up to me, and inquired after my health, and then of your Ladyship: : unknown, as, he was pleased to Say, you must be amiable because honoured by my friendship.
You

  33
#
You will Say, well, what would the girl have more! True. What I have related could give me no cause of complaint: yet if my ideas of a lover are at all just, his heart is whole — There are ten thousand numberless attentions and assiduities which are unknown but to one whose
breast has imbibed the tender pafiion*
%
Perhaps his heart is in London; if not, I know no obstacle to his declaring himself, for I will not for a moment Suppose my Father So unjust as to oppose an union where two hearts are united. If. he could be So cruel, why was I placed in So dangerous a situation as that of being So frequently in the Same house with so amiable a man as Theodore Neville?
C
My
34

My Brother brought him home, by my father’s desire, almost every
vacation
; nay, he uscd to flatter me by saying“ “was to me that the visit was paid.” What very hard talks are imposed on our Sex? where he in my situation how differently might he act?
« *
You See I am running on strangely; therefore I will not teise you any longer on a Subject we have So often discuffed when together, and on which we have very Seldom been of the Same opinion.
Lady jersey is expected tomorrow at the Hall. I have just received a card of invitation to meet and welcome her to the country, which I shall accept with great pleasure, as our earliest infancy pasted in the
Society
  35
Society of each other; and I felt very Severely when deprived of her company. Adieu, my dear Lady Anne.
I remain yours,

LAURA VERNON
c6
26 •
EDMUND LASCELLES
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE.
Clarges Street.
O U must allow me, Neville, to
Y
thank you for the confidence you have placed in me. Be assured I do not worship that idol riches, So much as to part with a valuable friend because he is deficient in point of fortune. However you shall share the favours of the fickle dame equally
with myself — my purse will Serve us both. Money
happy as when I find it conducive to my pleasures, and if it can for a moment relieve you from anxiety, I shall be amply gratified. Command
my
makes me so
rate
  37
my purse on all occasions, you know its extent.
Be assured, the Secret you have reposed in me, is not more sase in your own breast than in mine. I feel for the situation to which you might have been exposed, and truly vene
the good Mr. Raymond. I think it is your duty now to convince him that he has not been deceived in his opinion of you; and to whatever object he points, let your mind be determined to pursue it. — Indeed, as far as I can advise, 1 think the army
•r
the best situation in which you could be placed; especially as we are Said to be on the eve of a war. Yost will remember this line,
“None but the brave deserve the fair’*
Cannot a man be in love and yet
continue a rational
being.? I own
myself
* '

myself as yet a novice in the art, therefore I cannot resolve the question.
. Is a man, the moment an impression is made by a beautiful face, or an accomplished mind, in the true Spirit of ancient chivalry, to take leave of common fense^ and all the rest of his life combat giants and windmills? It is very well for milk and water
misses, to sigh for purling streams and shady groves; and for lovers, dis guised as shepherds, piping on the mountains: but for our Sex, in these days to die for love, we should only be laughed at, and called stupid dogs: no one would pity us. Therefore, prithee, Theodore, leave heroics, and let your owe good understanding be your tutor. Implicitly follow that, and, my life for it, if
your Laura deserves you she will be
yours

"9
yours much Sooner than if you build all the castles your fertile brain can invent. — Do not believe that love can transform a man into an oyster, lest the next metamorphosis you Should be sensible of, may be that of finding yourself transformed into a fool. Are you certain of the girl’s affections? If So, rely on her honour and attachment, and do not whine, or I Shall hate you. If you wish to run away with her, let me know, and I will instantly assist you. My chaise and a Set of good horses shall await you in any lane you please, and away with you to the land of matrimony.
Yours,
EDMUND LASCELLES
40
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY
T O
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY,
It is with unspeakable concern
that I take up the pen to write on a Subject, which I had determined to lock for ever in my own breast. The present - moment re quires that I Should wave that determination. As the peace of a beloved parent is at stake, my own, is a Secondary object. Let me conjure you, by the affection you once entertained for me, to point out in what I have been unfortunate enough to displease j I am not conscious of the cause, though I Severely feel
the

  4i
the effect. Surely you once flattered me with Saying, 1 possessed too many amiable qualities ever to lose the heart I had once conquered. That I was in possession of yours two years, Spent in perfect happi ness, convinced me; and the tear that falls on the paper as I write is
occasioned by the remembrance that those hours are fled, and that each Succeeding one now pasfes in dreadful contrast. Your time is Spent abroad amongst a Set of men who will in time lay the foundation of certain misery to us both. I know it is not the duty of a wife to arraign the conduct of her husoand: pardon me, then, for doing so, and say, that I shall hold that place in
your affections of which I am So emulous.
Were
42
Were
Severe
Mother
j
the
she,
the
j. o -- -- A -- -- -- - — -- -- - f
I am Sure, would not Survive discovery: and I am not hypocrite enough to conceal my misery from the Searching eye of an indulgent parent; nor could I Say a word that rcfledted on the conduct: of a beloved husband. Let me, therefore, entreat you to say what is disagreeable to you, that I may instantly remove it. This done, to visit Harewood
in your Society will be attended with redoubled pleasure to
Your affectionate,
JEMIMA JERSEY,

43
S IR w I L L la M JERSEY
T O
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY
Never was more astonished than at the receipt of your curious epistle. Perhaps you will be offended when I tell you, that I actually laughed at it. I really cannot Say a word
in Serious answer: only, that you
1
are too good a wife for me. I believe I must take a little of your gravity, and you a little of my gaiety. The air of Harewood will al as a restorative to your health and Spirits, as I think you are a little nervous. You should go more abroad : every Society I am thrown into,
inquire
44
inquire aster your health. I am obliged to make Some headache excuse or other; but, since you begin to grow out of humour with me, you shall in future fib for yourself, I have made a party for you this evening at the opera, and you must, if not better engaged, attend me thither.
Yours wholly,
'A
WILLIAM JERSEY,
  45
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
J Am Sure you will be pleased when I tell you, I have acted just as you would have me to do, in accepting the commission offered me by Mr. Raymond, and that in a fevr days I fiiall commence Soldier; which name,
1 can only say, Shall never be dis
V
graced by me.
I am convinced there are many bars to an union with imiss Vernon. Absence may assist my resolution of entirely forgetting that I ever thought more tenderly of her, than
was
46
was confisterit with the purest friendship.

You will wonder, no doubt, bow
I
have So Suddenly changed
my
Sentiments. I’H tell you my reasons, and you will own for once, that they
I
are very good. Yesterday morning, whilst the ladies were preparing fora
visit to the Hall, Mr. Vernon, Charles,
#
and myself, took a walk in the Shrubbery, when Charles asked his Father, who were to be of Lady wentv/orth’s party.? he answered, that he knew of no one but our family, and Sir James de Grey, a most accomplistied gentleman. I wish, Charles, ” Said he, ‘‘ that you may have it in your power to call
“As how, pray,
him brother
Sir, ” Said Charles, has Sir James
ever
I
  47
ever a lister ‘‘no, ansvvered Mr.
’ Ah
Vernon, but you have two.’* earthquake could not have given me a more Severe shock. I hope I was not observed by either Father or Son, as ‘I turned aside to caress a pointer that was playing by my fide. I recovered a little. ‘'•well, Sir,
Said I, you will excuse me, but as Sir James cannot marry both the ladies, I am curious to know to which you wish to give a title ’*

Why
“Laura
to be Sure; she. is the eldest. be fides. Sir James would not think of Emma: she is too young. don’t you slink Laura would make the Baronet a good wife ?” I answered, without doubt. He then entered into a discourfe on the perfedi pro
j
and

48
and his daughter; gave us the pedi. gree of their respedive families nearly as far back as the flood; whilst poor Neville could not reckon one Solitary relation. I made Some. foolish excuse, and quitted their company, perfectly ashamed of mysels, and of my presumption; and resolved never again to let my ideas wander that way i and, for fear I Oaould relapse into folly, I contrived,
before
we
Set out on
our
visit, to address a few lines to my best friend, Mr. Raymond. In these I assured hitii how fenssble I was of all his kindness to me, and that
I had conssdered of the proposal he had made me of a commission before I left town. I would accept it with gratitude, and afterwards endeavour to convince my country, that I was not unworthy of his pa'
'tronage,
'  47
tronage, or the honour conferral upon me. I expect your, congratulations on this conquest over myself. Would it not be mean in the extreme, for me, if I. could do it, to * hinder Miss Vernon from uniting herself to a man of family, rank, and fortune, whilst all I could offer, as an equivalent, would be the hand and heart of a beggar.
Perhaps too stie is partial to Sir James! It must be foi was induced to think on my last visit to Harewood, that I was not indifferent to her. But her father no doubt has been speaking to her of Sir James, and convinced her that She ought to have higher views, than
V
a person of my Situation. I would have given the world to have been excused from being of the party to
VOL I,
D
the
50
the Hall, but as I had accepted tte invitation and was drelsed for the visit, it was inipofiible to avoid it. At the usual hour, the ladies came
from their dresting room; and I thought Laura had taken uncom« inon pains in the adornment of her person, which is always Sufficiently lovely. I complimented her on her looks; Saying, (he was armed.at all points for captivating the beaus we Should meet at the Hall. ‘‘ This is very necestary, Mr. Neville, Said she, don’t you know that Lady jersey is there and that it is impostible to look tolerable in her company, without
taking infinite pains ?*’

Lady
jersey is married, Laura, Said I, there'
'She is no very formidable rival, ”
%
** Very well. Sir, Said Emma, but
we are not.” I could have killed her
for

, \ y
1
y
. <»’
4^
. >/ ‘c.
. >
. t
ia

/
<-

1

  51
for the reply; the force of it I severely felt both then and during oiir whole visit. On our arrival we were introduced, or rather I was
>■
r
i ^ introduceed to Lady and Sir Williani jersey, Lady Wentworth and her other amiable daughter. Lady jer fey is the most perfect beauty, I ever beheld, stie is not at all affected, as I have often observed your ^ celebrated beauties generally are. But I forgot that you are orie of the intimates of Sir William, and that I need not describe what you are much better acquainted with than myself. I looked round the drawing-room for Sir James de Grey, and not feeing him, I began to think that Mr. Vernon had been mistaken, and that our party was now complete, when a carriage drove up the
D 2
avenue
. ^ ^
.JL'


52
avenue; and, in a few minutes, Sir James made his appearance. Though I was predetermined to dislike him,
I must in justice Say, he is a most elegant man. He was drested in mourning, and I would fain have attributed his good looks to that circumstance. I observed Mr. Vernon was studious to engage him in conversation, and to display those accomplishments in which he knew
the ladies usually excelled. Shall I own to you, that on going to the music room, I felt a Secret Satisfaction to find Lady Jersey infinitely Superior to Laura, both in voice and execution. Indeed, I never heard her fing worse. Before v/e parted, Mr. Oshorne gave Sir James a general invitation to the Grove. We returned home not in
the
■ '- “s

53
the best Spirits. Charles had Some bufiness to transadl with his Father, and the ladies were sati?ued, So that
we parted for the evening Soon after we arrived at home. I did not go to bed, but walked in the wood for two hours, exclaiming against the caprices of fortune. I affure you I am
a'
most grateful for the offer of your friendship, and affure yourself, that if ever I am reduced to the necessity of putting my hand in any man’s pocket, I shall make my first attempt on yours.
Adieu.
THEODORE NEVILLE.
D 3
54
LAURA VERNON
«
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Harewood Grove,
DID expect si line in answer to my last, but as you are busily employed in preparations for Lord St. auban’s nuptials, I will excuse you. We have been very gay at the Grove ever since my return, as your neighbours Sir William and Lady jersey are still amongst us, and a little matter Serves to enliven a country village. I think I am the only stupid being
of the party.
I am at present under the opposite
influences of love and duty: and I
^ greatly


 , 55; '
reatly fear the imppfibility of reconciling them to each other.. This proceeds from a conversation I have had with my Father, previous to my last visit to the half.
It was directly after breakfast that he desired me to follow him into the library, and give orders that no one Should intrude until he rang his bell This alarmed me, as I knew he mult be going to Speak on Some interesting; Subject.
After I was Seated, he Said, Lauraj^ I hope, my dear, you have ever found me an indulgent parent; that I have endeavoured hitherto to consult your happiness, and that to see you placed in the world So as your own merit and accomplishments deserve is my most ardent wish. You will not be.
D 4
^;

56
Surprised, after you refiedl a little, that' I am the more anxious about your future settlement in life the more my own becomes precarious. Therefore,
my dear, I would wish you to receive Sir James de Grey as my particular friend, and as one with whom,
were there no material objection on your part, I could wish a nearer relationship.” I burst into tears as he
t
ended the last Sentence.
“Do' not afflict yourself, my child. Said he, I only wish to direct, not to compel you to anything disagreeable to your own inclinations. Perhaps Some one has engaged your affections already. In that cafe, let him make his proposals to me, and
if they are such as I can approve, I shall not hesitate to makeyoii happy.
The


The distance is So Short betwixt the
i
cradle and the grave, Laura, that much time ought not to be Spent in
opposition: to make the road Smooth, and the descent as ealy as postible,,
should be the common study of mankind. — Therefore think of what I have been Saying only as of the advice of a friend. For Sir James de Grey, if you should approve of eachf other on a further acquaintance, it will make me happy; if not, and you are So, I am content.”
With what
gent goodness'
has my Father acted towards his children on every occasion, and to me particularly on the present? yet I own myself wanting in gratitude towards him, when I declare, that I Sir James now for the first time
Dc
'58
with a determined prepoffefiion against him. I cannot account for this otherwise than that I had fixed my opinion decidedly in Savour of another objedf. — Every little attention that Sir James Showed me, rendered my distike the stronger. I intend, if possible, to corredf the ingratitude of my dispofition, as I have not one good reason to give my father for my refusal. I have no person to present to him whose addresses might want the Sandfion of his approbation; therefore to oppose his wishes would she both unjust and ungrateful.
Mr. Neville, I understand from
\ •
my Brother, has chosen the life of a Soldier. May he find it a happy one.
I do not know in what I have offended
him, but he does not appear the
Same
* V

 . 59;
same person in this last visit to the grove that he did on every termer one. If he had consulted me before he had, determined on taking a corn miffion, I Should have spoiled all my brother’s fine plans;, for I dare say
Charles has given his advice,, nay
/
persuaded him to enter into the army.. This is mere vanity in me, for I do not. know whether he. would have followed my advice, had he condescended lo ask in. Indeed I have every reason to think it would have had but little weight; Why should
I trouble myself about the pursuits of a man to.whom Lam totally, indifferent?
I think the air of London or Berk
>
does not agree with Lady Jersey; for she does not look, So well as
wsheii
t
6o
when She resided at Harewood; Something certainly deprefies her Ipirits.
Sir William is the gayest man in all our little Society. He frequently rallies Charles and Mr. Neville, Saying, that benedid is wrote in large characters on their foreheads, and that he himself is the only careless fellow in company. We are to be
deprived of his
Monday
next. My Brother, too, leaves us at
the same time.
Will
ed to town on business, and Charles goes with him by way of company.
They are to return in a fortnight; but, by the preparations making by Charles, I should judge they were to stay four months at least. When I questioned him He desired me to
5 make
I
1


  6t
make no inquiries as bachelors were not accountable to our Sex.
I wish you would come here for we shall want a little of your spirits to enliven us. Have a little charity, and confer an obligation on your friend.
LAURA VERNON
62
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
LAURA VERNON.
SHOULD not have attempted to obtrude my lettera on miss Vernon, were it not to exculpate me from the charge of a breach of friendship; which, Charles says, *yoti urge against me, in not consulting you shefore I determined on the life of a Soldier,. Had I, madam, considered that you still retained the Same degree of friendship for me, which Subfisted at our last parting,, be astured your decision would enevitably have determined my fate — it is now too late: and, to receive your approbation, is
the
'
I

8p
E

  63;
the only thing that can reconcile me. to m
Perhaps you will be Surprised when I Say t\\2ltyou was the cause of my having So Suddenly embraced the profession I have chosen. The day may arrive when you may be convinced of the truth of myassertion. In the mean time let me assure you that however distant my behaviour may Seem, my thoughts and best wishes are ever attendant on you j that in every place you will be prescnt to my imagination; and that to be assured of your esteem would be, in
absence, the best consolation to
THEODORE NEVILLE.
64 the l.^byrinths of life
\
LAURA VERN O N
1
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE.
V
I
Yo
U know not, Mr. Neville,
I
to what an extremity of misery you have reduced me! I the cause of your determining on the life of a ■ Soldier! Good Heaven forbid! — I \ tremble whilst I write — it is a lise So full of danger to yourself, and dnxiety to your friends, that it is imooffible to rank me as one, w’'en you aceuse me of being in any degree accessary to your decision. As to my approbation, it is impossible for me
it. I regard you as a brother;

to
IV e
THE   LITE., 65
there; I esteem you as a friend; therefore I cannot approve a step that I
LX Ji
am sure is not calculated to
%
you happy. The humanity of your disposition I well knov^i: and though I acknowledge that this is the cha raoreristic of a true soldier, yet it will force many a sigh from your bosom, and expose you to innumerable dangers, that a man of insensibility would not experience.
All I can now say, since a choice is not now left you, is, may you meet that protection from Providence that I think you deserve; and, if laurels are your ambition, may you, whenever you are called to assert the rights of your country, return crowned with glory. But, on the contrary, should you fall
m
66
her cause, may you meet in immortality a richer reward than is
in the power of this world to confer.
t
LAURA VERNON.
\
{

  67
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES
1stotwithstanding what I Said in
my last, I greatly fear a relapse. A single grain of hope has Set all my boasted stoicism to flight, and I begin to reprobate my own rasti ness in embracing a military life; since I evidently see it is displeasing to Laura.
I have enclosed a copy of her answer to a letter I wrote, as an apology for my not consulting her before I decided as to taking a commif fibn — The original I prize too dearly to part with though but for a
jnoment.
Since
68
\
Since She thinks my life valuable, I affure you that I have taken a great deal more notice of myself than I did Tormerly. Yet, what signifies her regard to me I does not She prepare to receive the addrefses of Sir ames de greyis he not approved of by her Father.? and will he ever relinquish Such a match in favour
I
of one, without fortune, without friends, and indeed without eyen a name he can call his own.
$
Thus I reason; but the letter I have received from the dear girl herself, never fails to inspire me with
hope — I have read it over once every
/
hour Since I have received it. I think it breathes a language Something
warmer than mere friendship. It has animated me with hopes, that I would not relinquish to be made * poffes*
  69
poffefior of all that this globe contains.
Could I once hear Laura pronounce, I love you every obstacle would vanish. Such a declaration would operate with me as a talis man. For I am Sure she poffestes both sincerity and constancy, and I would try to deserve her.
Give me your opinion how I ought to interpret her letter. IS she should only feel a friendship for me, and should be united to Sir James, I should go distradted. May not female vanity step in and decide in favour of a title .ii have often heard Laura expatiate on the inefficacy of riches towards happiness, and speak in terms of indignation of those females who have sacrificed to ambition. She was very young at that
time.
70
time and may now have imbibed
more worldly ideas.
I will not trouble you Ion
ger with my opinions, which are
various, on the present Subject, and
are continually fiudfuating betwixt hope and fear. Would they were
fixed! for suspense is most painful to

Yours,
.DHEODORE NEVILLE.
  Jl
FROM THE SAME
TO
THE
SAME.
Yo
Harewood Grove.
U need not answer my last, or
ever mention the Subject that has lately employed my thoughts and pen. I probably Shall See you Soon; as my fate is decided. Slow I pass the Teraainder of my days is as totally indifferent to myself, as it is to the rest of manstind.
Yours,
NEVILLE
72

LADY ANNE WESTBURV
r
T O
LAURA VERNON.
Audley Castle.
I'
excuse your neglect of me, my amiable friend, as friendship admits of reason. Love knows not any. Indeed these are ever at variance.
I certainly never shall marry again,
for I am determined to have a rea
\
being for a husband, and I positively declare against an antiquated one.
However, I need not despair at present, as 1 have three declared lovers j
»
and though I certainly never intend to marry either of them, yet will I amuse myself by just keeping alive,
as
  73
k
as a cat plays with a ball, until (he sees a mouse; upon which, she disregards the paltry play thing, and Sixes her affections on what she is determined to tease for the remain der of its life.
This is my cafe. I have nothing Serious to amuse myself with, therefore, they are welcome, until that period arrives, to make a part of my fuite.
You would laugh to see old Lord Kingsherry distort his old wrinkled face into a thousand horrid forms, in order to look amiable in the eyes of my Ladyship. His own, poor dear creature, have not only lost their lustre, but almost their sight. Whenever I meet him at a ball, I entreat him to dance with me; which he never refuses to do, for
V OL, 1.
I

fear
74 the i/abyrinths of life.
fear he should be thought old. He moves just as the pasteboard figures in a toy shop, which have cords fixed to their legs and arms: for he is blessed with both gout and rhu matism. He is, on those occasions, particularly careful of my health, fearing lest I should over heat myself, and catch cold. He had once a sister, who died from not being careful of herself after dancing; and, I am sure, to hear all the circumstances of her death, with many additions every time he feels an ugly twinge, as Lord Ogleby in the comedy expresses it. Indeed he is
«
the counterpart of that nobleman; for my woman informs me, that he is just three hours after he rises before he is made up for the day. How I should delight to see him at
his
  yg
his toilet. He is frequently telling me the many advantages Lady Kingsherry would poltess above many other ladies of equal rank. Perhaps to attend in his drefiing room is one of them. However
\
this is an honour that I dream not of.”
But I am all this time writing of
an imaginary lover, whilst you
thinking of a real one : I mean Hmpfi He Orev. for him you
are
oir James ae urey, tor mm you flail positively marry, if you ask my consent. He is a most amiable young man. I know him very well, he travelled with my Brother, and fpcnt Some time, after their return, at Audley Castle. My Father was very fond of him, and always made Sir James a pattern for St. Auban; which had this effect, that as my
E 2
Brother
y6
Brother did not chuse to imitate him, he began to shun his Society j and that on the death of my Father, the intimacy dropped between our sa miliest which I Shall be under a particular obligationifyour ladysliip will be the means of renewing: for if you do not, I Shall be obliged to forget my Sex, and absolutely make love to Sir James myself. For this
Mr. Neville : never think of him, child. He has no idea of you, depend on it: or if he has, will Mr. Vernon allow you to marry him.? No. — Be reasonable then and forget him — I think you told me that he was dependant on his uncle, who is a rich merchant — But you can live on love I suppose. I Should be glad to know where the tradesmen live, who would take cupid’s notes
for
  77
for the payment of their demands for though you and your Spouse may
be aerial beings, your Servants will be vulgar enough to eat 5 depend upon it.
I beg I may hear of no more Such
nonsenfe, but that a formal invita
^ $
to attend as humble bride’s maid at your nuptials, may be the of your next epistle,
St. Auban has written me word that I need not be in any great haste in my preparations at the castle,
because his bride, that was to have
%
been, and he, have fallen out. The Subject of their quarrel, no less than a rival. miss Berkley prefers Lord svownly to Lord St Auban.
Thus it is — The lady has had an invitation to play the part of Lady Ldownly at the Duke of A -- -- -
E
3
s private
ys
vate theatre. My Brother infists on her not accepting the character. He declared to Lady Berkley, that if She perfisted in the resolution, he begged to break off the engagement, as he would never marry any one who could condescend to personate a character for the amusement of the public. The lady is determined to “Strut her hour upon the stage” and St. Auban is at present angry.
If the marriage is really broken off, I will endeavonr to See you very Soon. In the mean time, I desire you to See Sir James de Grey
with a favourable eye; for marry him you positively shall.
If either Neville or yourself were
rich, I would let you make fim pletons of yourselves. don’t you
see.
  j()
see, child, that matrimony generally ends in indifference? This is placed purposely before your eyes in the persons of Sir William and Lady jersey, who married for love. Sir William was worn to a ikeleton before Jemima blessed him with her fair hand. And now, I am much mistaken if he would not give half his estate to be stngle again. If this is not true, report errs.
I
I have just finished my grotto.
It is dedicated to Friendship — I
don’t intend to let any male crea ture approach it, not e; ven St. au ban, as they never profess a friendship for our Sex without having a design to profit by the appearance of Sentiments, of which very few possess the reality,
E 4 Let
Bo
Let me hear from you Soon I hope to Spend next winter in town with Lady de Grey, and I desire I may not be disappointed.
Adieu, ma cheer amie.
Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY,
/

THE   8e
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY
T O
EDMUND L A S € E L e1
The Castle, Brighton..
A
AT LENGTH I am escaped from, alt the formalities of life, and begin tci breath again..
Vernon and I left Hare wood yesterday morning, about eight o’clock lady Jersey questioned me as ta the bufiness I was called away upon It was out of my power to tell the truth, and therefore I made hec believe any lye that came into my
head.
The first pershn I Saw after my arrival was a certain lady who' iifed
E C to
$2
to flatter herself that the name of jersey would sit very well upon her. She looked very lovely, and, for the first time, I Seriously repented being married — She hardly returned my bow, but about half an hour after I Saw her footman speak to my valet, and when I drefifed I asked him — was not that Lady susan strangeway’s Servant you spoke to, Lo Brun? Yes, Sir, he came to ask me how long you had been here, and how long you proposed staying, and whether my Lady was
with you. I told him her Ladyship was at Harewood. — The fellow was filent; and. I did not chuse to be
V
more particular, as I never was fond of making a confidants of my domestics.
But,
 . 83
But, Edmund, it is plain Lady Susan only affects indifference, and I (hall like to humble her pride.
Vernon has fallen fouce over head and ears in love with a pretty French milliner, who sits tacking together a parcel of gauze caps; they are exchanging glances at this moment; for her shop is directly opposite my window.
We go to the rooms tomorrow evening; this I know is imprudent
in my present situation, but I muss meet my charmer, she may relent and admit me again into favour. If foi shall spend my time agreeably enough: for it is absolutely necessary to be engaged in some intrigue
to make a watering place tolerable. Hang me if I think there
e6
would

84
would be hals So many of either
sex at them, were it not for this motive. You are admitted with more freedom into the houses of your friends here than in town. Mothers and maiden aunts relax a little. Even husbands permit their wives to go alone to Such places as
these, and charity says Some one must take care of them.
I believe you correspond with Neville. Pray be careful not to hint to him that you know where I am, as he is frequently visiting Lady Wentworth.
All our letters to Harewood we stiall Send to you dated as from ortman square, you must put them in the postoffice in town. I believe
there are a great number of my
friends
i

 85
friends here whose company I could very well dispense with. I do not intend to play at all here, it is carried to too high a pitch, therefore I must endeavour to kill time in Some other manner.
St. Auban, I understand, is expected here. Pray send me word if any Jracas has happened at Lady berkley’s, as I have never Seen his marriage announced, and he would not leave town alone without Some reason.
I suspedl your friend Neville is in love with Laura Vernon. Poor
fellow, he looked So very wretched at every compliment paid to his
mistress, the day he dined with us at the Hall, that I pitied him. I
endeavoured to rally him when we
were aldfie, but he would not confess

86
fess to me. You are his confidant. Betwixt him and me, you will be pretty well employed.

Yours,
WILLIAM JERSEY.

.t j
  87
LAURA VERNON
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
Harcwood Grove.
DID I not know that you poffess a heart susceptible of the finest feelings, and that you Sympathise in all my distreffes, I Should be angry at the levity with which you treated my last letter. It is Sufficient to be miserable without finding one’s
Self the jest of a Sportive hour. However, I forgive you, knowing that this, is your natural disposition; and, at the Same time, being convinced that you think me in the wrong, and that this method of telling me I am So, is better couched under a little
88  .
badinage than Serious advice j for which I thank you. Severity I could not bear; but, to Speak the truth, I have ever experienced the greatest indulgence from my friend. I shall still take the privilege of friendship in writing on a Subject that at present engrofies all my attention. I shall hope to meet with
Some indulgence, except where your observation can point out any marked
impropriety. The passion I have imbibed in my earlier years, I am convinced, will be for ever interwoven with the remainder of my existence. Indeed I hope it will, as I am certain the object of it is deserving, and I have lately had Some reason to think that I am not quite indifferent to Mr. Neville. Pray heaven the time may never arrive

rive when I am So. To come to a certainty as to his thoughts of me, or indeed whether he had any, I
will own to you, Rady Anne, I dis sembled a little? I even blush whilst I own this to you. Two days af
r
ter we dined at Wentworth Hall, the afternoon being rather fine, we went out in order to walk in the wood. Emma brought her pencil with her intending to sketch a view of the neighbouring village. Mr. Neville ashed me to walk on the terrace fronting emma’s Seat: we
i
had not taken more than two turn?, talking on general subjeds, before he Said, “This is a prospect you will not enjoy much longer, Miss Vernon, and this wood will lose all its charms when you are gone” ■here he Seemed to wait for my reply.

I
90

ply. — “Indeed I hope I shall enjoy the prosped: much longer than you Seem to imagine.” — Is it
possible that miss Vernon can look on the ‘ person and numberless accomplishments of Sir James de Grey with indifference ?” “I cannot See, Mr. Neville, how the accomplishments of Sir James de Grey and the present prospect can

be at all connected.
^9
“Cannot
you, Said he, I am glad of it; for
pof.
I would
give .worlds were I
S
r
from
of them to wipe the ideas
»
that occasioned
‘ Surely, Said I,
my
memory
9f
these thoughts.
they must have been very painful ones. As I had Some share in them, I beg I may know what they were”.
Had they been pleasant, you certainly would have had a right
to

91
to them, but you must excuse me, for I am not of the general
ought
to corn
opinion that we municate our Sorrows in order to lighten them, I think it should be considered as an additional weight to, misfortune to involve our friends in our misery, and however the objects who Sympathise in our affliction may be endeared to us by the recollection of their endeavours to Soothe and share our griefs, yet the same
poignant anguish remains in our
own breast” ' — Here h
e
sighed
“‘well, Said I, I will not endea
I
voui* to combat your opinion, but I should like to find a congenial soul that would Soothe my
f
mind when in affliction. I must insist on knowing what was your
mean
gz
meaning vtihen you mentioned Sir James de Grey, as I am much interested in whatever concerns that
gentleman.

ic
No doubt but you
are interested in everything that concerns a man with whom you are destined to pass the remain
pray.
der of your days.” “And Mr. Neville, who has been So kind as to inform you, that Sit James is my destined husband? Not that I mean to Say that it is not possible this may Sometime happen — I do not know a more amiable character than his.” “Miss Vernon, Said he, you have long honoured me with your friendship, excuse me if I have used too much freedom in speaking on So delicate a Subject. I shall
now only Say, may you be united
k ta

93
to an object that is deserving of
■you
and
may
he
ever continue
to know the value of the treasure he posibfites! And though I shall be deprived of your Society for ever, yet Sometimes honour me
Is it
with your remembrance.” possible, Mr. Neville, Said I, that I should give my hand to one who would not esteem your friendship an additional happiness.” **
That
IS
impossible. Said he, but I See your ■father, to whom I am under a prior engagement this evening.” He left me before I could make any reply. I was then truly Sorry for having been the cause of pain to one whose
happiness was So materially con nedfed with my own.
I joined Emma, who had just finished the Sketch, and we went in
* » quest
94

quest of Theodore, as I Saw his engagement with my Father was only st feint to quit me.
After walking near a'mile through the wood, we Saw him ascending a hill at a considerable distance. It was impost!ble for us to pursue him farther, we therefore turned our steps homeward. Emma could not guess the cause of his leaving us so abruptly, and I did not choose to be communicative on this subject..
returned under the impression of very different sensations; she delighted with the drawing that she had just completed, and I vexed at the part I had been acting.
The, character of a coquette I despise; and doing So, I heartily hated
myself.
However I was Severely
punished on our return, by my Fa
3
ther’s
  95
ther’s desiring to Speak to me alone. My Sister left the room. He then told me that Sir James de Grey meant to breakfast with us in the morning. In order that I might not be unprepared for his reception, he must inform me, he Said, that Sir James came with the intent of offering me his hand, and this with his entire approbation. He hoped that Sir James would be received on my part without any reludance, as he had Some time ago Spoken to me on the subject; and I had neither then or since made any objection. I answered my Father as well as the perturbation of my mind would allow. That it was true I had made no objection, but that I had never yet thought feriouoy on the
Subject.
As to Sir James, every
person

^6 THE   LIRE.
.person who knew him allowed, that he was very amiable j but that I did not find myshls impressed with any other Sentiment than respect: therefore I entreated my Father not to allow Sir James to make any pro posals to me at present. He Said that Sir James was not to be trifled with. As I had not any material objection, he expected that he should be properly received. Time and Sir james’s assiduities, he had no doubt, would incline me to think still more fovourably of him.
He lest me without waiting for a reply, or I certainly should have made one not very pleasing. My
mind was in a state of anarchy. I Sat for Some moments‘without one
idea I could connect with another.
»
At length I recollected that I had
been
’
r
  gf
been the cause of uneafiness to the only man that I felt the least Spark of regard for, and that this was my punishment. I then determined to go to the shrubbery and endeavour to meet him on his return, as he generally enters the garden by a private gate. There I was to be disappointed again; for rny Father joined Mr. Neville at the extremity of the Elm Walk; which put it out of my power to endeavour to palliate my fault. Nay, I thought that perhaps my Father might be talking on the Subject that was, at that time nearest to his heart, and thereby be adding force to the wound already given.
I walked at Some distance in order to observe whether they would Separate

Mr
VOL. I
F
more
98
more than ten minutes, and then
avoided meeting me, and went directly to his own apartment. When Supper was Sent up he made his excuse, having letters to write which must go by the post in the morning. We made a hasty Supper and parted early; my Father not being pleased, nor I in good Spirits. I Slept but little; and, as Mr. Neville’^ chamber is directly over mine, I heard him walking about, at intervals, the whole night. In the morning I was happily relieved from my dread, by Sir james’s Sending a polite card, excusing himsels from
paying his respects to us in person. A party of gentlemen had just arrived from London, whom he was obliged to entertain; but, he Said, the earliest opportunity Should be em
5 braced
  ^ J
braced for endeavouring to accomplish the first wish of his heart. wou’d I felt the same emotion! but alas ’tis otherwise with me. I am delighted, however, With this short respite, for which reason I meart to give you one also, for I find I have
a news paper. Emma joins with me in desiring you not to forget your promised visit.
I had a great deal to Say of Lady jersey, who went from hence yester
written
day into
therefore no
doubt but will Soon See her Adieu my friend and mentor.
Y
ours
LAURA VERNON
p2

ioo
CHARLES VERNON
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE.
Portman Square.
Beg you ten thousand pardons, Neville, for leaving you So long; but as the company of my Sisters, I have heard you Say, was preferable to mine, I stay here in order to punish you; and please myself.
The fact is, I am detained here by a pair of the Softest blue eyes In truth they rnight tempt an anchorite to sin, though 1 do not absolutely say they will have that effect on me.
All
  lot
All this entre mm : not a Syllable to the old Gentleman, or the girls; they cannot keep a Secret; a word dropped to them would be half over the village by night.
But I must do both my Sisters the justice, and I think I do no more, when I Say, that they are as prudent as their Sex are in general by-the-bye what is de Grey doing? Ami to call him Brother Soon? I wish, Theodore, you had Sufficient of the needful, and liked either of the girls; I know no one I would be happier in Seeing either of them united to than yoursclf.
When did you See Lady jersey Does she Seem to wish Sir william’s return? 1 fear he will not be able to join the party lo loon as he wishes.
Fs
or
102
or at first: intended I am aix idle fellow, and wait his pleasure with proper patience.
befid.es, my little blue eyed nun affures me, that I should die of ennui were I to return into the country So Soon.
You cannot have anything to do but write letters, therefore pray let me know all you are about at Harewood. Send your letter to
the Hash and Lady jersey will Send it in the next packet of love she sends to Sir William
How do you like Lady jersey, Neville?; You must: have observed
Sir William was not over ashduous in his attentions to her; and to a man of gallantry to shy more would he unnecessary.:
You
‘V

  IO
You know how I hate writings and therefore will think this a tolerable long letter. I never, when we were at college together, wrote above six lines at a time to my Father; and never then, but when I wanted money. I have written to him by this post on the same Subject, I am rather afraid that this has been repeated too often to have much weight.
However, Jersey has promised to be my banker. I Shall expect to hear soon that you are well. Are you habited a4a miutaire yet? If you are, all the girls will be for Setting their caps at the captain. I should have no chance with a plain brown coat. So I will e’en stay where I am, until you leave the country.
f4
Re

104  .
(
me to the girls at home, and all abroad that inquire after me 5 and believe yours,,
CHARLES VERNON
i ■

K
)
I
Is
h
r
t

105
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY
T O
MISS WENTW OR T H
\
Jersey Place, ^
I Arrived yesterday at born; and am at length escaped from the piercing eye of a. fond parent,.
to indulge myself in ruminating o’er my hard, fate,, alone and unobserved..
I am well informed, my dear Horatia, that. Sir William has, never been in town but one night Since he left me, and has never
been seen here, ind yet all my letters are directed to portman fq.uare, and all his answers are dispatched from thence,
^ 5 '
i06
What can I think, when I find a mystery in my hushand’s conduct?
a thousand dreadful conjedfures rise
9
in ' my imagination, and each Succeeding one but adds to my perplexity. Sometimes I blame myself, and think I may be unjust in
f
jtiy surmises; but then where is Sir William } Why am not I acquainted with the place of his residence? I have not Spirts to bear up against the ills of life. Other women, 1 frequently see, pafs over with indifference what would nearly break my heart, I begin now to
feel that too much tenderness is as
%
bad, nay, worse than Severity, in the education of a female.
nursed in the very lap of parental fondness, I knew not what af
fiidion


  loy
flidfion meant: too Soon I fear this will become fiimiliar*
I wish you, my dear Horatia, would inquire of miss Vernon if she has heard from her Brother,, and where he was when he wrote home last,
I yesterday received a letter froi» Sir William dated from Pbrtman
r at the same time, I
Square;
received one from my houfekeepery desirlng to know if we intended coming to town Soon, as if not, the painting of the housh will be begun,. I shall not say, in my answer to Sir William, that I not at the place from whence his letters are dated. He is gay, and I fear, too thoughtless: but yet 1 hope cruelty does not make a part of his character.
f6
IS
i08
You must excuse me for giving you this short letter, as my mind is in that state of rcstleffness which
9
cannot dwell long on the Same object;; the Subject of my present letter is never absent Sora moment. Adieu.
That health, with all its atten
«
dant bleshng, may ever await my most amiable and revered parent and yourself, is the fervent prayer of

JEMIMA JERSEY
» 9t
1
I
  i09
EDMUND LASCELLES
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE,
What is the eause of your So
long silence?? prohibited me to write on the subje(5l that has been most pleasing to you for Some time past, and promised that I should See you very Soon : but as you neither come nor write, excuse
my inquiries.
I do not admire your manner of late; it savours too much of perplexity


Endeavour to bring your
mind to a point. If, as you have frequently exprested in your letters, your affections are fixed on Miss Vernon, I advise you to leave Harewood
directly.
no  ■

1
f
directly, and divert your mind by;
r
a change of place, and amushments. t This is your only way, - ffnlefs you i determine to embrace certain mi 1, Sery j which, if you do not quit
I
your present Society in a very short time, will be unavoidable.
This advice, I foresee, will have its weight according to the tone your mind may be in at the time my letter arrives. 1 am ill natured enough to hope that it will reach you in one of your despairing moments; wshen you will feel the full force of my Sentiments,, and quit directly a Scene that 1 Sec is replete with nothing but ruin. I am as tonished to see with what avidity Some of my friends plunge into error, when a moment’s refiedion
would
  IJI
would convince them of the impropriety of their condudf.
However as I (hall not Set up for a
\
reformer of the age, I must let those alone who will not be advised. I have a friendship for you that will make me officious; and, at the risk of your displeasure, I must convince your reason, against your paf sions, The latter I well know, at your age and mine, is a very power sul enemy; but once vanquished, reason reaffumcs her throne with redoubled Satisfaction, tranquillity takes her place in the mind that has been, during the contest, the Seat of anarchy and confusson. these things I hope tp See verified in the person of my friend, and that at the next meeting, which I hope is not reserved for any very distant
period.
1 12
I
period, we may converse on the present Subject of our disquiet, as on a disagreeable dream.
If you will marry, 1 Shall look out for a rich wife. You want Jortune^ not beauty. This is the presentr^i^e in London. The wrinkles, not the dimples, are the ladies greatest charm.
Provided the estate be large, and unincumbered, it is not thought material whether the person be as
f
large as a giant or as diminutive as a dwarf. Every imperfedion carries a charm with it, that being an apology for the hushand’s neglect; which must necessarily follow Such matches.. There is no fortune that can compensate. for Such Slavery.
'I was yesterday on a visit to a friend of mine whosc, lister, a bloom
iflg
  II
t
ing girl of Seventeen, is just married to an old fellow of sixty. This was a contrast of a different kind. Most heartily did I pity the poor
Six
girl.
I hardly knew her.
months ago (he was lively gand gay in the extreme. Now She Seems the ghost of her former Self. And the old dotard, who has the presumption to fancy he has a right to her affections, because her Father was cruel enough to Sacrifice her person to his avarice, is constantly on the watch, lest Some one should take that heart by furprise on which he has found gold could make no impression This talk I have assigned to my
sels.
w^ilh me success. This I
think lawful game, and I shall pur sue it with avidity. If the rich rew

114
0 _
ward be mine, I shall bless my stars, and sit down content; no remorse, no conscience to plague me. I think I hear you exclaim, how easily we accommodate our conscience to our wishes, and how readily we gloss over improprieties when they are our own I I could write an. hour on the Subject had I time At present
I have only just enough to Say, that I am on all occasions your friend,
f
i
f.
EDMUND LASCELLES
r
  II
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY
T 0
SIRWILLIAM JERSEY
Raynham Farm.
Your last found me just arrived here, in the expectation of your Soon joining me, but its contents banished that hope, and leaves me in doubt as to the time when I shall be So happy as to see you.
If your bufiness is of that nature, that your presence in town is absolutely necessary, 1 will come to

you
I have never been accustomed
to visit this place without your Society, and I absolutely shed tears when I came down to dinner and
found
Il
found only one
plate
OR
the table.. Lady Wentworth and yourself have made a Spoiled child of me, I Shall endeavour to fill upi the time with my music, drawing, and books, until you quit that horrid town, and Seek peace and piness in the shade,.
I affure you Raynham is greatly improved since you last Saw it,. My shrubbery is grown a little wood
“Already it calls for my love,
“To prune the wild, branches away
- I would have prevailed on hora tia to accompany me here, but my mother’s health is not So good as I could wish; therefore I would not deprive her of the company of my Sister; who, whilst she lives,,
t
I am Sure will never marry; nor indeed do I think she ever will.
The

  11^
The Severe disappointment she met with in the death of George Barry, still preys on her Spirits, and Spreads an air of melancholy over her that does not ill accord with the gravity of age.
Lady Wentworth endeavours, as much as possible, to enliven the Hall, by giving invitations very frequently to the families who live in the neighbourhood I have pro mised^ in your name, that we shall Spend our Christmas with her.
I have had an invitation from
Mrs. Gordon, to go with her and her daughters to Brighthelmstone,
to spend a month, as she Says. She has engaged a house large enough to contain two families. I don’t know but I shall go with her, if you don’t come here, or Summon me to
attend
. A
Il
attend you in town. Mr. Vernon Says, if you keep Charles in London long, he hopes you intend to make him your heir, as his ideas will be too refined to inherit his Sortune.
Sir James de Grey and Laura, I believe, are Soon to be united; though when, is not yet fired. They are both very amiable, and is being So is any claim to happiness in the married state, they bid fair for felicity. I Shall, by my jprattle, hinder you from more Serious bufiness, and So be myself the cause of your absence. Adieu.
Yours,
JEMIMA JERSEY,
  I i9
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES
1 Think you wished your letter to arrive in one of my despairing moments : may every wish of your heart meet with as ample gratification, and then you will be Supremely blessed. Hope was never long a resident in my breast. It has frequently shot across my mind, like a flash of lightning, only to render darkness more visible. I am the adopted child of misery; therefore any endeavour I may make towards happiness is but struggling against the stream. I yield
to my fate, and
no longer at
tempt
120
\
tempt at what is beyond my aim, I am glad that necessity obliges me to quit this place, as I have orders
to join my regiment
I have been
weak enough to stay here till the lad moment. Sunday is the day fixed for my departure : to stay beyond that is impossible.
wtat renders my being obliged to go at this crisis still more dreadful is, that the object of my affections Seels this Separation equally with myself; yet is llie destined to the arms of another, and I am myself the dreadful cause of that destiny. Delicacy too long with held me from declaring my passion to Laura; before (he knew I loved her she had given her Father a prcmise to become the wife of Sir James de Grey: that once
given, although partly extorted, how
* II

  I 21
is it possible to i*ecant} Yet how can she persorrn the fatal promise? Sir James has never been abfentfrom the Grove one day this week; consequently I have been most wretched, although this brought on an eclair ciffement which I had long wiqied.
1 dare not presume to attempt the
0
gaining over Mr. Vernon to my interest. Even in my most Sanguine moments, I always deemed that impossible. His honour is pledged, his daughter’s consent given. Yet what 1 dare not, that will Laura attempt
^ jl
this evening. Her father loves her asfedlionately — She hopes everything from his goodness. We have been all this morning raising obstacles, then Surmounting them, then contending with fresh ones starting up. In short we are in a labyrinth of
VOL. I,
G
doubt
»
122
doubt, I have totally banished every glimpse of hope.
How happy are you, Edmund, born to an affluent fortune, the Sole delight of two most amiable parents, and at liberty to pay your addrelfes to most women within your own circle; but I don’t know how, it is the poffes ffon of blessings .that makes us ungrateful beings insensible to their real
value. I allow the justice of the Sentiment expressed in a line of a favourite author of mine:
“How blessings brighten as they take their

flight.
9^
I hardly knew how happy I was at this place, until I felt the absolute necessity of leaving it. I shall See you as I pafs through town, in my
way to H
where our regi
2
ment

^23
ment now is. — I am afraid I shall not make a good Soldier; I mean in the
way of gaiety, as all the ladies expect great attention from us young en signs; and my present situation renders me totally insenfible to everything except where my heart is engaged.
You talk of change of objects and amusements; I am of a different opinion from you on this Subject, 1 think that the greatest of all absurdity is an endeavour to fly from one’s Self; I could be as much alone in the midst of a crowded assembly as in the most dreary forest. Company only Serves to harrass and vex the mind that is ill at ease j it does not tend to relieve it for one moment.

G
so£
124
For your offer of a Dowager, I thank you, but my hand and heart Shall both be disposed of at the same time; they Shall be given in return for one I Shall think of much greater value. So, you see, 1 am adluated by a mercenary tnotive, though I seem
to fet out with difinterestednefs.
%
I must attend the tea table for the last time: — what a melancholy idea.
Expect to see me on Monday.
✓
Yours,
THEODORE NEVILLE.
t
V
A
  12§
JAMES VERNON, Esq.
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE
SIR,
Never entertained a thought that the friend of my fon could be capable of undermining and destroying the peace of any family; much less that he would have fixed oh mine as the properest to receive a mark of disgrace: for such I must confider an alliance with one whose family is as much a stranger to himself as to the rest of the world.
JAMES VERNON
G 3

w
126
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
JAMES VERNON, Esqs
1 R,
X OUR letter has penetrated my
very Soul; not with the pangs of guilt, for I am not conscious of one action, through the course of a very unpleasant life, that could ever raise the blush of shame on my cheek.
As to the obscurity of my birth, that ought rather to give me a claim to the protection of Society, than to drive me with disgrace from it. I
have never Sullied the charadfer of
$
a gentleman. As Such I was received into your family. I have to protect the honour of a Soldier, and the
rights
  127
rights of an Englishman j both which I hold as Sacred 'as the man who boasts the proudest ancestry. these are my only inheritance; and with my life only will 1 give them
up.
To have felt the influence of beauty, both mental and personal, cannot be a crime; and with more than this, you, Sir, cannot charge me. Love is an involuntary pastion 1 I admired, in silence, those charms and accomplishments, to the poffes lion of which I dared not to in Spire. Accident discovered to me, that your charming daughter honoured me with a preference. I will not Say, for fear of giving offence, how dear the discovery of this is to me: yet you yourself, Sir, will judge how highly
f
I prize the blessing, when 1 consider
G 4
ed
123
edit as too great to be asked of you, evert when urged by her whose moil distant wish should be gratified at the expense of my existence. My resped for you, Sir, makes me thus explicit.
The letter you wrote to me, I
would not have answered to
any
other person. I know the value of the treasure in your poffestion, and can feel for the anxiety of a parent in the difposal of it. Yet, as I am about to quit your family for ever, I cannot leave it under the imputation of ingratitude. Be astured that I have felt your’s and your son’s many
attentions towards me as they deserve.
i
The peace of your family may bs restored by my departure; my own
never can
To

the labybinths'df life. 129
To whatever difficulties my fate may expose me hereafter, the pangs of the present moment may be equalled, but can never be exceeded.
You, Sir, may give your daughter to a man of rank and fortune, but whether you will either ensure her happiness or your own, is doubtful
The affections are not to be controlled; nor, once bestowed, to be recalled.
Under the conviction of this truth, I shall only Say, that the time may arrive when I can with propriety urge my claim to an alliance with your family, and when you may, without indignation, receive it.
Yours,
THEODORE NEVILLE.
Gs
ICO.
THEODORE NEVILLE.
T O
LAURA VERNON
elsord Bridge.
%
Know your astonishment will be great when you receive this letter, and See its date. I am just arrived at this place in my way to town. I tore myself last night from all I hold deafest on earth. It contains
the only object of my hope or fear. I could not bring myself to bid you adieu in the cold and common form of civility, and a tenderer was impossible.
I have received a letter from your Father, that your gentle nature would
be
  II
be shocked at. My proud Spirit was in arms. The recollection that it was laura’s Father who wrote it,
d
disarmed my anger, and grief took possession, where rage had lost its
influence.
That I am unworthy of So much excellence, need not be told me. I every instant feel my inferiority. Ever since the moment when I first found I was not totally indifferent to you, I have determined to disclose a Secret, of which, however, I am certain you must be now in pof sefiion. A certain dread, I will not
“m
call it shame, with held me : but I had determined last night, at all
events, to See you, and discover my whole situation. Your kind solicitude to quiet my apprehensions.

G 6
led
132
led you to disclose to your Father my partiality.
By a letter from Mr. Vernon, I was instantly convinced, that you had met with the kindness you expected.

It was impossible to See
either of .you after the receipt of it,
%
and to linger about the house like a guilty wretch, for a few hours longer, I could not bear.' I took my horse, and, in an absolute fit of frenzy, arrived at Elford.
As I pasted the Vicarage, Maria
was sitting near the window of her dressing-room, with the shutters half closed. 1 stopped some minutes to deliberate whether I should not take my leave of her. On determining to the contrary, I put spurs to my horse, and did not stop for the distance of more than a mile : I then
wished
 I
33
wished to return, and take another view of the Vicarage and Maria, as I knewi that she would See you before 1 should.
My horse decided in favour of my return; for as I was wavering, he turned round, and I pursiied his di
recftion. The CL 'ck struck eleven as
*
I reached the churchyard.
The village was wrapped in silence, except the yelping of a cur, which the approach of my horse had awakened. I Surveyed Mr. arnold’s house. Not the least glimpse of light could be observed. maria’s window was closed. It was impostible for me to disturb the family. I laid the reins over the horse’s neck, and let him take which road he pleased. He went gently up the hill that leads to
Harewood, Before I reached the top,
the
134 '
the moon burst as it were from beneath
a cloud, and shone with unusual
Splendour. This gave me the
last view of the Grove. On my lost
year the old turrets of Raby Castle,
rendered still more romantic by the
stillness of the Scene. I grew enthu
fiastically ridiculous, and will not detail
all my Solly. At length I grew
reasonable, and returned to this place
in a state of mind not to be described.
There was no one up in the
inn but the hostler, who was waiting
for the stagecoach. I would
not let him call any one up; So
threw myself, dressed as I was, on a
bed, to which he showed me, and
from which I am just risen, with a
mind almost in a state of distraction

Laura!
  i35
Laura! I have lost sight of you
perhaps for ever! and am now going to join a Set of dissipated young men, from no one amongst whom I can ask consolation in the moment when my Spirits are depressed by despair. They have none of them Seen you, therefore cannot judge of your worth. Hht why do I dwell on my own Sufferings? Perhaps, in my absence, you may be forced to a marriage with him, whose name I cannot write — my whole frame trembles at the bare idea.
Will you not cheer the days of absence with a line : I know, the delicacy of your difposstion may revolt at writing to me, but Surely you are above Such trifles, and will not render the man you have honoured with your affections miserable for mere
form’s
1-36  .

form’s Sake. Your letters Shall be Sacred. No one Shall see them but myself. They will chase away des pair. Though I do not doubt your constancy, 1 well know the refpest you pay to your father; and that the duty of a daughter is a first principle. The propriety of your conduct I ever did admire, nor would I lessen, in the Smallest degree, your attention to the best of parents; yet, in this instance, I could wish him less severe, or my fortune more favourable. I Shall wait at this place until 1 have a line in answer to this incoherent letter, which I Send by a fellow who knows Agnes, and who will watch an opportunity of giving it to her.
The poor girl met me as I crossed the court last night in my way to the Stable. I involuntarily Said, God bless
you,
  i37
you, Agnes.

Lord, Sir, Said
she, for certain you are not going away at this time of night! Does Miss Laura know of it — I ran from her, not being able to reply. By her question I know Ihe has observed my partiality; and the natural goodness of her heart, which I have Seen evinced in an hundred nameless astions since I have been at the Grove, convinces me that I may trust her. Can you condescend sofar as to relieve my mind by a. line in answer?? is become more necessary. Since the Secret of my birth has been disclofed, and that not in the most favourable light. I wait with the utmost impatience.
Unalterably your’s,
THEODORE NEVILLE.
138

SIR WILLIAM JERSEY
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
For
*
Castle, Brighton,
heaverrs sake let the indosed be Sent directly to Portman Square! 1 hope no busy body has been writing to Lady jarsey that I am at this place. Her last letter was written in a manner which Serves to awaken Suspicion in me. Do you know, Edmund, that She threatened me wusth a jaunt to Brighton, if I did not come direduy to her. This is
petticoat government with a vengeance. This won’t do, my Lady! You must stay where you
being under
are
  I 39
are, and I will stay where L am, until I please to return. However, She must not come here, that is very certain; Sori am in the most delightful Society, from which it will be
4
vastly difficult for me to be extricated, because I do not by any means
wifii it.
»
Lady Susan, my boy, loves me; and will, I believe, at my earnest Solicitation, elope with me. ^don’t Say a word. She is all life and Soul; just what Jemima was j and not what Jemima ts — my wife.
I dare say that my affections for Lady susan will not last for life, and then, you know, I stiall be a reformed rake; a charader that is always Said to make the best husband. Good
or bad afterwards, 1 must enjoy the present moment.
Lady
140
Lady susan is So consoundedly jealous of Lady jersey, that I hardly
dare mention her name in her presence.
Women are fools! they do not know their own interests; they should

not get husbands in Siich haste, it is lovers they want: nothing is So truly ridiculous in the present days as a fellow in love with his own wife.
To Speak the truth of us, we are as accommodating to the fashion as we can be. You know that I always hate to be out of the ion.
Charles has had a letter from old
I
square toes, who good naturedly Says, I shall ruin him. i’ll do my best I never attempt to hinder people from doing as they please.
I find your friend, poor Neville,
has got into a Scrape at the Grove.
I am

II
I am Sorry for it; for 1 like him much. There is a modest dignity in his air that impresses one greatly in his favour. 1 wish he had a fortune sufficient to enable him to marry Laura Vernon; although I don’t know if this would tend to his happiness.
The old Squire has written a letter reproaching Charles for introducing Neville into the family; interspersed with Sentiments not of the most liberal nature. Charles was shocked at these, and is greatly hurt at the
manner in which Mr. Vernon treated Theodore, on his discovering their pnehant for each other. If his Father does not behave to the girl better than he did to her lover, Charles fvvears that he could find in his heart to assist him in running away with
her,
142

her, did he not know that Neville would ruin hiinself by taking Such a step. He has not yet written a line to Charles on the Subject. Perhaps he thinks he is to adopt his father’s
resentments.
Mr
his Father, I suppose, but they are of very different dispofitions.
I believe you never Saw Lady susan Strangeways, I will therefore endeavour to give you a description of her person. She is of the middle size, has a prosusion of auburn hair, large hazel eyes, which she never fails to use to the best advantage; a Grecian nose, and the finest Set of teeth that you ever beheld; and a pair of lips that is imposhble to describe;; neck and shoulders are also undefcrib ably beautiful. — I shall not say anything of the rest of her person, for
I am

143

1 am but bad at description; besides, itis impossible to paint heaven: I hate an unsuccesssul attempt at anything. There is a delicious languor that Sometimes prevades her whole frame. The summit of delight is reserved for the man she favours; and that I am in expectation of being, that I am certain you do not doubt.
I hope, however, Lady jersey is not acquainted with my being here, iirting with the lovely susan, as her gentle nerves might be Shocked at such an impropriety, and I should have an hundred Sermonising letters from Lady Wentworth, cc.
Charles thinks of returning to the Grove next week, in order to please the old Gentleman, which I am sorry for. — A man in love, yoii know,
wants
144  .
wants no better company in the absence of his mistress than his own thoughts.
II
If, when the darling maid is gone. Thou doll: not ligh to be alone,
And muse and sold thy languid arms, Feeding thy fancy on her charms; Oh never dream again that thou Hast lov’d — for love is nourifti’d so.”
these lines are the produdfion of a very accomplished woman. They are truly feminine. We men never give ourselves half the trouble to demonstrate our pastion. If those which she points out are the true symptoms of love, there would not be above one man in love in a thousand years : Nor, as I believe, who could say with truth, they were exactly descriptive of his feelings. I am a mad
I fellow.
  i45
Sellow, you will exclaim. I think it a Solly to be rcasonable when mad ness is So pleafiing to
youfs,
WILLIAM JERSEY
P. S. I shall be fit company for you at eighty.
f ♦
H
j46  ,
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY
T O
MISS WENTWORTH
At length,
my Sister, I am relieved from suspence as to the con dud: of my Husharid; but this re lies has plunged me into still deeper distress. He no longer loves me this is past a doubt; and I am truly wretched. He is Sacrificing those vows at the Shrine of another, that I once thought my only treasure.
is at Brighthelmstone; So is Lady susan Strangeways.
You know not, my Horatia, how many different transitions my mind has undergone since I was informed
of the Southeast dreadful truths. Their first
m
im
  147
imprefiion deprived me of all recollection : but it returned with redoubled Severity on my recovery.
4
My pride was wounded. I strove for Some minutes to hate the author of my misfortunes: but my affection took part against my pride;
now has full poiteffion
and
grief
of my mind.
It is two days since I received this shocking news, yet I am still alive. — I have Several times taken the pen to write you the particulars as I read them, and as often has it dropped from my hand. My Husband me I — My tears gush
from my eyes even in writing this line; then guess how my heart must bleed at the cause. He loves another — fondly loves her — I am the bar to their mutual happiness. I
/
Hz
cannot
I -

cannot exist under this idea. I would fly to you, but am restrained
by my duty to the best of parents; whose tender frame could not support
the recital of the griefs of her child. Do not let me steep a mother’s couch in tears.
I charge you, Horatia, conceal from her my Sorrows. Pray forgive me, I am ashing your Silence on a Subject with which you are yet unacquainted. I will endeavour to relate the dreadful story.
I went to dine with Mrs. Gordon. — After dinner She proposed that I should read an entertaining book which she had just received from London, whilst Elizabeth finished
a piece of embroidery. This I was just preparing to doj> when the Servant arrived with letters from the
post
  149
post house. There were three or four. Come, Said Mrs Gordon, these are all chit-chat letters, from Brighton: we will each take one, and read them all in turnj this will Save me the trouble of relating a vast deal of news to you, and we shall be the Sooner released to get to our book. Accordingly we each took one, and, breaking the Seals, proceeded. I had not read more than the first page before I cast my eyes on my hufband’s name, and read as follows:
“Your neighbour, Sir William “jersey, is the surprise of this “place. He has been here near “three weeks; and although there “are a number of his friends here,
he has not visited any one of them, ‘‘ and has only been to the rooms
h3
‘‘ once
 ,
once. Ill health is the cause he alleges, for not mixing in So“
“but report Says, he has “lallen violently in love with Lady Solan. Strange ways; or, to Speak more properly, he has revived “an old flame; Sori find he

tc

ic
bis addresses to Lady susan before his marriage, but that the present Lady jersey stepped in and bore away the prize. I believe
f. /
“she now means to retaliate; fori “have obstrved them walking on the beach by moonlight, at a very late hour. Lady Harriet is
of the party; but Some other gentleman walks with her at a pretty considerable distance. I “think Mrs. anson, their Aunt, “very imprudent to Suffer this,
“What
II
if
if

if
  151
*
What Sir William jersey eaii mean, I am at a loss to guess — ”
I could not read more than thus far, but fell Senlelefs on the floor, with the letter in my hand
I could recollect anything, Mrs. Gordon had found out the cause, and was kneeling at my fide, as
well as Elizabeth, in tears.
Said and did everything ^ to Soothe my distracted mind..
Gordon in fisted on my letting Elizabeth return to the farm with me. This amiable girl has never left me
She
.<5,
Sora single moment,
«
with me, but oh. She cannot know the sorrow that overwhelms your Jemima! I cannot write, to Sir William. I cannot remonstrate.. I find that I yet love him too well,
IT 4 even'

\
152
even to write harshly to him, although he should break my heart.
It was but the day before I received this dreadful news that a letter was brought to me dated port man square, entreating me not to go to Brighthelmstone with Mrs. Gordon j for I had told him in my last letter, of her invitation. He Said it would be cruel in me to quit the farm just as he was on the point of finishing his business and taking
wing
for Berkshire
What duplicity
! Can I answer such a letter? No; I know not what to do! I am above deceit! 1 will not reply.
Pray write, and advise me how to ads.
4
The gentleman, with Sir William, was doubtless Charles Vernon. That be should act a part to render me
miser
  I
miserable I am surpnsed. — But, no. I do him injustice: he could not estrange the affections of my Husband. Perhaps he never loved me. Lady susan had his heart However I will rid him of the in cumberance of a wife whom he no longer value?, I will Seclude my selsfrom the world, I cannot bear to be pitied; and am too wretched
f
ever to appear again in Society,.
Let me hear from you, which is the only comfort left cto the wretched
JEMIMA JERSEY..
h5
C

154
LAURA VERNON
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE,
Wa
S it then necefisary for me
to write to affure you, that my Sentiments were still the Same? Did you think So meanly of me as to suppose that the circumstances of your birth would alter my opinion of you? It was not founded on Such trifling considerations, believe me. To give you any consolation is out of my power. I need that too much myself.
My
ever indulgent before,
is now' grown quite the reverse. He strenuously infists on my union
with
  15.5
#
with Sir James de Grey, who is
constantly here.
My Father oiily last night wrote him a letter, wherein he Said, that to Spare my blushes he would name the day for our nuptials. He mentioned that day month, and sternly dessred me to remember that his honour was engaged for mine. I knelt at his feet, and entreated he
would confider again, before he Sent the fatal letter. He then fworer
that if I was not married on that day to Sir James, he would no longer confider me as his child; but as dead, both to his family and affections. He Sealed, and Sent the letter to Clifford Place before I th
Jadge what were my feelings.. Why did you go away So precipitately'? I
e room
H 6
fear

j e6
fear that this circumstance has en creased the anger of my Father. He loads you with reproaches that I know you do not deserve: yet it is impostible to convince him that you are innocent of what he accuses you. To my parent I have ever paid implicit obedience; nor dare I, even in this instance, where my own happiness is So materially concern ed, disobey him. Why did fate place us in a situation So dreadful? What Shall we not both Suffer by this eternal Separation? I hardly dare to think of it.
My Brother is expected home next week. Perhaps he may prevail on my Father to break this en
%
If it was to save my family from ruin, I think I could patiently Suffer any Sacrifice. I have
fre
  i57
Srequently determined to write to Sir James de Grey, and entreat of him not to insist on my fulfilling an engagement made by my Father, as it cannot render him happy, and will to me, be a continual Source of misery. But, jhen, should I take this step, and he be unfeeling enough to perfist in making me his wife!
I do not know how to adl in this dreadful crisis. Advise me what
can be done to prevent us both from wretched ness.
Yours,
LAURA VERNON.
I c8 THE

WHLLIAM RAYMOND, esa.
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE.
MY DEAR THEODORE,
Ecdford Row.
IN C E we parted from you last liigbt, 1 have been informed that your regiment will be immediately ordered to Gibraltar. I am very Sorry for this intelligence, as I do not think it So good as when you left us to visit your friend Vernon. The climate you are going into is not the
best for a sickly person
I beg,
if you find yourself unwell, that you may write to me diredfly; as, I believe, I can procure an exchange
I would
into another regiment
not
  i59
not advise this, on any account, un less your health makes it absolutely necessary Perhaps there is Something on your mind which I am not acquainted with. In this cafe do not treat me with reserve: let me poffess your full confidence. I know that love is a very troublesome companion to young men of your age. Is that the cause of your depression of Spirits ^ Mrs. Raymond, as well as myself, observed a very visible alteration in, you : you are to consider us as your parents. We have ever considered ourselves in that light. Have one of the amiable daughters of Mr. Vernon made an impression on your heart? Do not fear to let me know it, if this be the cafe. I lliall impatiently expedtyour answer. As I have 'made you a Soldier, I
would
lo
would have you become a hero. To avoid the first opportunity of displaying your courage, may, by Some, be attributed to a wrong cause. I enclose you bills for five hundred
pounds
A voyage is expensive.
Mrs. Raymond desires to fit out the Generali for Such She expests one day to See you. A young man, Setting out on his career in life, Should be gay and cheerful. The world will throw in his way Sufficient Subjects for discontent. Be yourself, and consult your own happiness, which will greatly contribute to that of your friend and father.
WILLIAM RAYMOND,
  ll
H GRATIA WENTW
T O
LADY JEMIMA JERSEY
Harewood Hall.
Sit down to write to my Sister, unable to give her the least consola tion. What were your feelings on reading the dreadful paragraph, 1 can easily conceive. I am hocked at the conduct of Sir William. Poor insatuated man! how will he one day Suffer for this attachment? I had thoughts of writing to Lady Susan
Strangeways, and endeavouring to convince her of the impropriety of her conduct: : on restedion, I
gave up the intention j as a mind
capable
162
■
capable of forming Such a connec
tion.would be callous to every. Senti
ment of justice or humanity. To
write to Sir William would be equally
vain. If your letters do not rouse
him from this lethargy, mine would
be dilregarded. I think you Should
let him know that you are acquainted
where he now is. Tell him direct
ly, as it happened, how this came to
your knowledge. The part you
have to act neither admits of, or
needs deception. Do not cast him
from you with reproaches, as this
may render his return to rectitude
difficult, and therefore discourage
him from making the attempt. I
greatly fear for your health in this
conflict. Let religion and fortitude
Support you. I do not think Sir
William
He
will
/
THE LABI^RINTHS OF LIFE. 163
will return : and I know you too well to doubt your sorgiveness. Your own good sense will dire you better than 1 can how to act.
Our Mother is Somewhat better than when you lest her. The (lightest intimation osyour unhappy situation would destroy every flattering prospect of her restoration to health.
I inquired of miss Vernons, who called here yesterday, where their brother was. Laura replied, in London, with Sir William jersey. Is he removed from thence? Indeed that may be the reason why we have not heard from Charles lately. I Said, I understood that Sir William was at Brighthelmstone, but might be mistaken. Poor Laura — She is not happiy. My Mother entreated them to dine with us, as we were entirely
alone.
164
alone, and could dispense with dress.
Laura Said, she would gladly accept the offer is Emma would return to dine with her Father, as he might be uneasy at their stay, not knowing that they intended a visit to us. Accordingly Emma returned home. besore dinner Laura and I took a turn in the Garden; where, with tears, she disclosed to me the situation of her heart, and ashed my advice. Indeed it was impossible to advise her; the case is hard: yet Mr. Vernon is not to be blamed, except for the Severity in which he wrote to Mr. Neville. Poor laura’s affections are placed on this young man, who has at present no fortune but his commission;; he is also particularly unfortunate, you know, in regard to his birth.
This
  165
This day fortnight is destined for her marriage with Sir James de Grey. I do not think Mr. Vernon, on this cccnfion, ads with that confistency that generally marks his conduct: : though he might not think Mr Neville a proper person for his daughter to marry, yet to force her to accept of Sir James is cruelty towards her, and injustice towards him.
After the cloth was removed, and
the Servants had retired, I asked her
permission to consult my Mother;
who endeavoured to persuade her that
*
it was her duty to obey her Father, though at the same time the tear of pity glistened in her eye. She pref sed Laura to her bosom at parting, and bid her hope everything from a good and beneficent Creator, who knows what lot is best for us.
After
166
♦
After Laura was gone
Lady
Wentworth wept Some time, and Said, she loved her as a child of her own — She had been yourplay>fellow. She then proposed going to the Grove, in order to expostulate with Mr. Vernon in laura’s behalf; which, I be lieve, she intends doing tomorrow. Pray heaven that she may Succeed, and that you may do the Same in the recovery of your hushand’s affections.

Your affectionate Sister,
HORATIA WENTWORTH
0
  167
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
WILLIAM RAYMOND, esq.
me leave to thank you, my
Give
most generous benefactor and Father, for this last among many other prooss of kind attention to me. To dis
V
semble with you would be a crime of which I hope I am incapable.
Mrs. raymond’s kindness has ever surpassed my poor ability to thank her. I very Senfibly feel your offer
of an exchange into another regiment. This I would not permit to be made, even for the preferment to ^\^hich Mrs. raymond’s kindness prompts her to expect I Shall one day arrive. I go to Gibraltar with pleasure.
t6s
Sure. To remain here would be certain death to mei hope to meet from the hand of a generous enemy what I dare not give to myself.
What you suggested is but too true. miss Vernon is in possession of my sincerest affection. I think I
am honoured with hers in return; but her father has forbidden her to think of your Theodore, and she prepares to wed a man who is her parent’s choice, in the person of Sir James de Grey, You, Sir, who Sympathise with every one in affliction, will easily paint to yourself what must be my feelings on the present occasion. I received a letter from Mr. Vernon before I left the Grove, which I inclose for your perusal, such as no other man on earth should dare to write to me
without
this  . 169
without meeting that chastisemerit his iiisolence - deserved, It is hard for a Spirit like mine to bear an in sult; but it was from the father of her who is dearer to me than life it sclf, and without whom I find itim
poshble to ex ish
these Severities convince me, e very hour, how deeply I am indebted to you. Fear not, my dear Sir, that I should ever disgrace the profession
you
have chosen for me.
will animate the natural courage which I hope I ppsstess. My. life may be of Service to my country, though u Sele Ss to myself t to that shall the remainder of it be devoted, I would not die inglorious. It shall never be Said that you sheltered one whose mind was as low as his fortune. Tell Mrs. Raymond, that if
VOL. L
1
ever
'ryo
ever I am placed in the Situation, I will endeavour to deierve the honours ■due to a Wolfe.
.As to my health, I will, if possible, regain that for your sakes. I think with pleasure and impatience on the day of our embarkation. This will not be defered longer than ten days, at which time I hope to receive a line from you. Whilst I exist you shall never find ingratitude an Inmate in the breast of your
•LHEODOR.E.

LAURA VERNON
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
The Grove.

1 Have but just heard of your in disposition, or I Should not have waited for your reply to my last. My time ever since I last wrote has been occupied in a very dreadful manner. Every hope of happiness is
totally fled from me.
Thursday
week stamps my future life with endless misery. On that day I am
to resign my hand to Sir James de
Grey. My Father infists, and I dare
not disobey him. I claim your
I 2 promise
l4
THE   litev
promise of being present : I shall need the aflistan.ce of every friend on
that fatal day. I hardly think that I shall Support myself as I ought.
I have not dared to breathe a word to Sir James how much this union with him is repugnant to my inclinations. My Father has threatened, nay Sealed it with a dreadful oath, that, if I uttered a word to Sir James to diflbade him from accepting my hand, he would cast me off for ever from his family and affecliom
This, I am certain, I could not fun'
'
s ^
port. The other conflict I know not how I shall suslain j but if it terminates a life no longer valuable to me, 1 shall have this satisfaction, that I have faithfully performed every incumbent duty. My Father affects
to

TITE  .
to attribute my apparent dislike to
Sir James to the modesty of the Sex,
/
He must be little versed in. the feeling of the heart, if he can mistake averfioti for tirnidify;
Mr. Neville, for I yet dare write his name, has left this place almost a
It; and he. is now preparing to embark, for Gibraltar., This is the present seat of war, and presents the most dreadful ideas to my mind t what may be the event, I dare not
think, I must sty from thought,, or lam lost for ever.
I shall depend on Seeing youv and expect a line Saving how Soon : let it be direoly if possible.. joins
me in an entreaty for your company. Poor girl! she pities and weeps with me; this is all she can
1 i
do

174 'SHE  .,
do, having tried every other method to gain over my Father, at the utmost rilk of his displeasure.
Adieu, My dear Lady Anne,
youss,
LAURA VERNONL
  IS
THE ODORE NEVILLE
T
EDMUND LASCELLES
Portsmouth
Cannot quit the country, although we have not parted many days, without again saying how truly Sensible I am of the advantage I derive frofu^ your friendships This, and the fatherly care of Mr Raymond is the; only good Fate has left me..
I sit here, Surrounded by people, as?
unnoticed as if I was in a desart.. Every one is, either in person or by letter, taking leave of Some object of
Mothers, listers,
their affection
lovers, are all exchanging a last farewell. The Sails are putting in order.
I 4
and
in  AND
the wind expedfed to be favourable every instant. Do you know that I still feel a degree of reluctance to quit the country that contains all my heart holds dear or valuable on earth?
I have received letters from Laura written in the deepest Sorrow for our unfortunate Situation, yet breathing that kind of philosophy which 1 am certain she does not feel. 1 can conceive her situation to be still more dreadful than my own. She Says, She relies on that power for strength who thinks it best for her to Suffer.
She has, through motives of delicacy and affection, concealed from me the
day on which stie is to Sacrifice to
duty the remainder of her days t I
glad Ihe has done So. Do not fear
to mention her name in your letters.
1 would
am

I
I would still hear of her, though Ihe: must no longer correspond with me. 'This is a weaknes 1 own, but I cannot combat it, and theresore I yield.
Before we removed from H
I was this
might calm my
twice on. the point of returning to the Grove, in order to steal a last look, and I fear that my resolution would, now Sorfake me,, were not I convin ed that the ship will be under Sail'ia a Sew hours. I wish we were fairly
on board.
rrdnd, for then it would be.imposhble to waver. All communication then must cease. My mediately gratified,, for I have an instant Summons on board.. Adieu my friend, may every earthly happiness attend you,, whatever be the
fate of
THEODORE nevieler
is



lys
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T 0
0^

LADY MADELINA MORTIMER.
A ND pray how is my amiable
Coz? I am totally forgotten, and might be your grand mother for the attention you pay to my letters This is the third I have written and DO answer. It is well 1 have fbme consideration, and recolle(fl that you are in Portland Place, and that I am the quiet inhabitant of an old country house.
So good to you,. 1 intend this as a farewell epistle, unless I get an immediate answer, which you must di re€t to Mr. vernon’s, at the Grove, Harewood ^ for I hpe just received
Notwithstanding I have been
a. Sum
TITE LA'BYRTNTHS OF lipei
a Summons to attend the marriage'of my friend Laura with Sir James do Grey. I Shall not fail to be therej
My friend, I fear,, is not So well. pleased with this union as I am, for she is foolishly in love with a very amiable young man, whomsher father does not think a proper match for her, and therefore is the more anxious to get the present con eluded. I feel, greatly for her situation, but must appear insenfible to itj
in order to support her fpiritsi This I own I should be incapable of doling, did I not hope she will be happy
♦
with Sir James, who is the most miable creature in the world, has am excellent estate, and I am Sure is fond; of her, or he would not have made proposals to Mr. Vernon,. Did L not regard them both I should not
16
have
lo
have promised to be present at the ceremony, for I Hate your funeral weddings.,
I was yesterday on a vifitof Sorrowy and have not half recovered my Spirits It was made to Lady jerseyi. I was fhoeked to behold So Sweet a creature dropping to the grave; through the perfidy of the very man who would have given his life but three years ago to have preserved
hers only for a day., itent on mon to inquire
health; and to say, that if She would permit me I would bring my lute and endeavour to amuse her, but only on one condition, that I Should be received as an old friend,. miss Gor*
%
don, who has been at the farm ever finee She was made acquainted with her misfortune, wrote word that her
Lady
I
I

1

Ladyship accepted my offer, and a reed to the conditions, as she was
e
too much indosposed to admit of th
visits of any but friends., On my arrival I was shown into the dressing room. Lady jersey was reclined on a Sofa, and looked like a beautisul eorpse. She held out her hand to nie: it was burning. She put her other hand to her forehead, and burst into tears. I did not attempt to Soothe her until she ceased weeping; as I thought she would thereby be relieved. I was right; and a little after She grew more composed, and Said, excuse my weakness, Lady Anne, you have heard the cause: do you pity mei assured her that I did from my heart, and wished it were within my abilities to afford
her relief.. She then Said,, Sir wil
liam

isa
liam is not So much to blame. His affection for Lady susanwas previous
to our marriage
It was I that coulff
not dislinguifii betwixt a real and a
pretended passion, who was in fault., I now Suffer for it Severely. My huf band too Suffers.. I Shall Soon releafe him, Lady Anne, and then he will be happy.. Never, Said I, can that wretch be happy who could injure Such excellence. You are too good,. Lady jersey.. I would I was the wife of Such a wretch. I would wring his heart: the torments he pre pared for me, in his turn, he should Suffer. She gave a faint fmilc, and Said,, she had not Spirits, if she poffes fed the inclination, to vex Sir William : but you are supposing, she added, that he possesses Some regard for me, which, is imposhble.. It is not
true

 . 2: 83,
true, Lady jersey, he does love you He cannot help it: it is the natural inconstancy of his horrid Sex: they are for ever in Search of variety. Shall I tell you how I would Serve Such a man if he belonged to me She desired me to proceed,, for She stood in great need of advice. Why, I would
take no notice of his inattention to me;
\
I would go diredliy to Harewood, bring my lister to town with me, order a new carriage, send cards to all my acquaintance, invite them to a masked ball, flirt with the handsomest man in the room, take care that my huf band’s particular male friend Should be of the party, get an account of the elegance of myself and entertainment into all the fashionable news papers, be abroad every evening, or entertain at home, give concertsin short I
z
would
1s4
would be the life and soul of society.. would rouse his jealousy r he would be at my feet in less than a month : and Lady Susan might break her heart at leisure. This was a plan, she Said,, which her Spirits would never Support her to execute.. She could not exist deprived of the regard of Sir William, and to give him happiness she could die with. pleasure. I could not bring her to: my plan, and So was obliged, to take
my leave. I thought my chat had a; little enlivened her : for after dinner
she spoke a good, deal. I have promised to See her again before I go to: the Grove. I wisli she would adopt! my method of regaining a husband., I would give my life in pledge for its success. I would humble the; brute' ' I must get married.
again

again to teach my simple Sex how to manage. 1 am out of all patience with every wise that I know. If I ban not instrudl Lady de Grey in my
method, I will even marry again and
\
Set the pattern rnyfelf.
Lady Susan Strangeways is artful in the extreme. Jersey is vain, dissipated,
and not very wise.
Lady
Jersey it too quiet for him. 1 fear her health will Suffer greatly, for (he is nervous : if I was not called upon by friendship in another quarter, I .would visit the farm very osten and contribute to amuse her Ladyship, .and make her forget her injuries if poshble. Remember I write no more Adieu.
yours,
.ANNE WESTB uril

386
 ..
S I Pv JAMES D E G R, E N
T O'
PHILIP DAVEN port, Esq.
•N

next
Do not forget my promise, although it is now five years since it was made, that whenever I married,, you was to be present at the ceremony.. At that time, I know, both you and I considered that it would be very long, ifeveryou was Summoned for that purpose. is the day appointed for my marriage,. I entreat you will come to Cliffords
.. I do not mean to stay here: longer than the ceremony is performed., You must make one of the party
to my house in Cornwall, that I have fitted up for the reception of a Lady..
This
 . I 8y
This house, which is at present too much in the bachelor style, must be modernised, and this will be best
done
my absence
The Lady who designs to honour me with her hand is the daughter of Mr. Vernon, a neighbouring Gentleman. Perhaps you may know Something of his ehara<ster, is you are not
His
and
personally known to him. daughter is an elegant figure,
I
has amiable manners, without that forward impertinence that has So frequently disgusted us both in our present race of young unmarried ladies. She has been brought up in the country, under the inspection of her Father, who has Spared no pains or ex pence to render his children (for he: has two daughters and one fon) estimable in the eyes of every one who
knew
I

knew them. You will not wonder at my being struck with the person
and a
ccomplistiments of the eldest of the ladies. I d, o affjre you that her beauty, of which She is possessed of no Small stiare, is a Secondary object, in my union with Mils Vernon, I wish for a friend and a companion, one who can think herself happy, though She live six months of they

year in the country, in the Society of rational beings, who perhaps never heard of Mara of Marchefi.
I Suppose you will wonder to find me So altered in Sentiment Since w'c last parted!. I was then gay and thoughtless, had no idea of marriage myself, and admired every woman who. would be. silly enough to conr tribute to my amusement. 1 thought every married woman a divinity who
wouidi


IS
would coquette and flirt with me, in order perhaps to tease a very valuable man, who was her husband, and fool enough to Suffer her to torment him. The case became altered when I thought of a wife myself. Having been convinced of the follies and im
i
proprieties committed by what are termed fashionable women, I determined to quit London for Some time, and endeavour to find an amiable woman amongst my country friends.
i
r I
I think 1 have Succeeded, and am in hopes of realising the prospeo: I have painted in imagination of conjugal happiness. Do not Suppose that I intend to bury myself in the country from the dissike I have expressed of the manners of the town ladies. There are Some women, even in
London, who are excellent patterns
of
ipo TKE  .
of imitation, both as wives and mothers, and whom I highly esteem. Were the manners of the court regulated by the conduct of the highest ornaments of it, the profligate of both sexes would shrink from Society.
I shall expect you directly at Clifford Place, nor will I hear of any
excuse,
You must leave the dear
town, for the Sober country. We will endeavour to amuse you, and when you find us no longer pleasant, you shall be Suifered to depart,
I have Mr. vernoi\and family to dine here, and of course must prepare to receive them.
your’s,
DE GREY
THE.
191
ts IR WI L LIA M JERSEY
T O
CHARLES VERNON.
Brighton, '
Never wanted you more in my life than at the present moment, Charles! Sori am no longer concealed. A letter I yesterday received
from Mrs. Gordon, a neighbour of
»
ours at the Farm, informed me of Tady jersey’s being acquainted not only of the place where I am, but to whom I am paying my adoration, and that She is too ill to write. I am Sorry for it! but too much in love to pay attention to the preaching of old women. I thought Lady jersey had had more delicacy than to
take
19 s

take notice of a little ssirtine. Hither
O
to i have gone no farther; but as I am now under no restraint, 1 may, by the fair one’s leave, quietly enjoy the blessing heaven has placed in my way. I do riot See why the stars should inot be as much in fault in the male cafe, as a female one. I remember a line of rowe’s I thiiik
which runs thus :
“For if weak women go aftniy,
Their liars are more in fault than they.”
That I adore Lady susan is certain, that she loves me is as certain.
V
love and be beloved by the objedtpf your affeoion is certainly the greatest bliss on earth. Therefore, to be happy whilst I can, shall hence forward be my motto. Not that
Lady jersey shall have anything to
complain
  193
complain of.; half my fortune (hall he her’s, whilst she is reasonable; but I will not be dictated to even by her, whom I esteem equal to any woman existing; and for whom, had she not been my wife, I might have had as great affection. Pope never expressed a sentiment more just than this:

Love, free as air, at sight of human tics
Spreads his light wings, and in a moment flies.’*
I am quite poetical this morning I think. Faith I am in better Spirits today than I have been for Some time past, and i’ll tell you why this is. Lady jersey and her friends, I
thank them for it, have published to the world the true state of my heart. This I was reluctant in Some degree to do myself, on her account. She
VOL. IK

has
194  .
has laothing now to do, but make herself happy with the opinion of the world in her favour. Live with her again I will not. I will lay my vows at the Sect of lovely Susan, and be supremely happy, while other dull fools are only dreaming of happiness. The fair one has many scruples of conscience to overcome, but 1 have no fear but almighty love will Surmount them all, and then I take wing for Paris, or I Should be pestered with the remonstrances of old tabbies and
maiden aunts in abundance, who never having been loved themselves, are at mortal enmity with the affections of others. Lady Susan is of the Romish religion; therefore, if nothing else will prevail, z.prieji Shall be my last resource.
Let
  195
Let me know what your Sisters Say on the Subject of my infidelity. The women are violent in their censure of our Sex in these cafes, yet I do not know if in their hearts they do not give more credit than blame to the naughty man
What are you all doing at the Grove? marrying Laura to De Grey, and So making bufiness for Doctors Commons. Where is Neville poor devil! I pity him from my soul. I wish he would come and join me here, I would endeavour to amuse him and get him a fresh mistress. The gentle Harriet, the lister of my charming susan, I think, would accord well with his dispofition. She is gentle as the Summer breeze, and might prove as inconstant too, for
K 2 ought
I

ought I know. Their mother was not famous for the virtue of con stancy more than,
Yours,
WILLIAM JERSEY.
  I9i7
\
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
T O
w
Portland Place,
I Acknowledge my fault, and ask for giveness, It is granted I know, I have been involved in Such a vortex of receiving and returning visits, to say nothing of operas, plays, cc.
that I have not had a moment I could call my own for these three months' past, and I most heartily wish I was,, what you call yourself, a quiet inhabitant of an old country house,
I want to know why you are buried in the country, whilst all your friends are in town. I have asked your brother the question more than
k3
once;
fr'..
no more.
: #. ■
II THE  xfte.
once : he says you are love fick. I do not implicitly give credit to all he says, but wish to be informed from yourself. There is some reason, and a good one, I do not doubt, or you would be here as usual. If 1 am impertinent tell me fb, and I will offend
I sincerely pity your friend Laura! I do not know a properer person than
yourself to sustain her on the present occasion. 1 shall expect a long letter descriptive of what pastes whilst you are at the Grove, and I, in return, will give you a detail of what pastes in this giddy city, where every body’s head is turned. I am too grave in my disposition fora London life. My Mother is much younger than myself, if one is to judge from gaiety of
disposition. She is never tired. She
IS
  i99
devoured with ennui if we are a day without company, and the country is absolute death to her. At this moment we have hardly a room in
4
our house that, can be made use of. as they are all under preparation for a masquerade and ball the dutchess gives on Monday next. I am now writing in Mrs. sanders’s room, in an attic story, to which my toilette has been removed. The Duke has had great difficulty to keep his library from the general routes I am not yet certain that the ancients must not make way for the moderns, as there is not a proper place for a coffee room; and Daubigny says, that the library is the only room fit for one; therefore, as Mr. daubigny’s opinion is opposed to the duke’s, I greatly fear my Father must Submit.
k4
The
200
The dutchess is Seriously angry with
\
line at this moment, because I did not quit writing in order to give my opinion about the dispofition of Some a rtificlal flowers, with wshich (he is
hanging the drawing-room.
She
Says 1 have no taste, and am not fit for a woman of fashion. I apree
O
with her, that in Some particulars I
N.
am not, for I cannot amuse myself with absolute trifles, and be happy in the midst of a crowd.
V
The liberty of turning the house out at the window was obtained from my Father at no Small expense, for we were obliged to promise to quit London directly after the birthday, and go down to Derbyshire, and there remain until after Christmas,
without making one request to return until our time is .expired. To this
1
  201
I could readily agree; So did my Mother, who would as Soon have given her word to Seclude herself for as many years as we did months, in order to obtain this one delightful and Splendid evening. There is not a creature we ever Saw at our house but is honoured, with a card of: in
vttation
Lady R
»
has just Sent a direc --
tion to the dutchess, to find a man who.ihe Says has the most elegantly charming taste in the dispofition of flowers, on these delightful occasions, in the universe.” I must go to the farthest part of the city in
feach of this Italian creature. The coach is ordered, and L am to accede to his own terms. My Mother will be in great distress until I return : therefore, to make amends Tor want
K 5. of

202
of taste myself, I must not delay a moment to procure her the assistance of one who is said to be compound of elegance. Adieu, my dear.
Yours,
MADELINA MORTIMER
  20?
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
9^
Harewood grov6r
Y O U were forgiven before you asked it.. I. thank, you for your description of your preparation for the masquerade. I have Seen the Duchess in idea, most buiily employed. I know her dispofition well, and that this entertainment is at present amongst
the most Serious concerns She has in this world.
I arrived here on Tuesday last, and
found Laura much altered as to looks, though better in Spirits, than I,
who know her dispofition, at first
K 6 thought
204
I
thought possible. Mr. Vernon received me with that kindness and hospitality he is So well known to posssess. Emma looked all life. The approach of a wedding is always pleasing to young people, for they do not know how Soon it may be their own lot to get a husband. wish Sir James had fixed on Emma, as She is a very amiable girl, and has no prediledfion in favour of any other man. He is, I think, almost a faultless young man : and that is making a prodigy of him. I know that she cannot be happy with Laura, should he by any accident hear that her affections were placed on another person; for he is paticularly nice in his Sentiments with regard to our Sex, You will wonder perhaps how I came to be so well acc]^uainted with his
1
to
  205
dispofition. Fie travelled with St. Auban, and lived much in our family after their return, until my brother grew too dissipated, and then the acquaintance was broken offi. I Saw Sir James here yesterday morning
he begged to be considered as one of my old friends, and said that my present visit was a favour himself as well as to Miss Vernon.
He drew me assde, whilst the ladies
♦
were bussed in giving Some orders, and said, Lady Anne, do you not think me very fortunate, considering the life of dissipation that I led in town, to have made choice of So ex cellent a woman as your fair friend? I am under inssnite obligations to you for your good opinion of me, for
Emma told me you had written To her Sister, and had not forgotten an
2 old
2o6
old acquaintance. He talked much of his approaching happiness, more I fear than he will meet with in reality.
I have endeavoured to convince Laura that she ought to confider this union as a bleffins; rather than a misfor
o
tune, but I have a powersul opponent to contend with in her inclination in favour of Neville., She Lever mentions
his name without tears.
Lash
night she consigned his pidure, which she had drawn herself, to my care, saying, that though she herself mush be for ever wretched, she wished not to render another So, and
r
therefore, that it was proper to put the picture out of her own poffeshon.
I much wonder Sir James has not discovered her reluctance towards an union with him, as she says she has.
frequently
mm O ^
  toj
frequently burst into tears in his presence, and been obliged to quit the room. He must ascribe that to delicacy, or Surely he would never marry without Some explanation from
cither her father or herself.
Mr.
Vernon makes up to Sir James in attention for the want of it in his daughter.
laura’s fortune is to be five thousand pounds, which Sir James has desired may be expended in whatever (he chuses to adorn her person, The diamonds that were hi mother’s have been new Set, and are very handsome; these however she looks on with indifference. I have insisted that She Shall not appear So melah cholly before Sir James, as she must marry him. Though he takes no notice now, yet if this Should continue
after
2o8 the TABYRINTHS OF: LIFE.
%
after they are united,, he vtfill then be Gurious to find out because: : if Gonnedted with her present shyness, it may lead him to think she had formed Some previous attachment... This would be fatal indeed to their future peace, which I most fistcerely
wish to be preserved.. I have done:
(
all in my power to enliven them fince my arrival, and have put myself into a; tliousand different shapes.,
I do not know but the old Gentleman and I shall make a match of it:. we have fiirted,, a good deal,, which sometimes ends in marriage, I have threatened Charles with becoming his mother inhaw : he only laughs at me, and says, he would marry me himself rather than let his father
■4
make a fool of himself. Very civil? this truly,
Wq

We
to Tady Wentworth, who is not yet acquainted with the misfortune of
j
She was very inquisitive
as to the health and looks of her daughter, and aslced me, rather emphatically I thought, if Sir William was at the Farm when I left that part of the country? I told her Ladyship that as I had not paid Lady Jersey a visit for Some days previous to my departure, I could not ans

fwer her question. > Miss Wentworth took me to her dressing room, under pretence of showing me a picture of
She is acquainted with every circumstance, but a bad account of her Sister but it was a just one, and I did not think I should do right to dif
o
semble with her. I advised her, if
her draw’ing.
I gave her
O
Oi


210
4
possible, to go to the Farm, observing that her presence might be of Service, as there is Something conso latory in the company of any one in whom we place a confidence. In Such a state as her’s the mind is apt to be unsteady, and is therefore glad to rest on the opinion of one whose cooler judgement may best advise, Why am 1, who am So unfit for this purpose, placed amidst all this misery miss Wentworth appears to be greatly affected by her sister’s calamity

She is perfectly astonished.
as indeed every one else is, at the unaccountable conduct of Sir William. She thinks if Lady jersey does but preserve her health, he may be brought, by expostulation, to See his errror, and endeavour, by a different conduct, to make atonement. I am of another opinion quite.
With
but not altogether a bad one.
  211
With Some dispofitions this might have effed, but not with any So light and volatile as his.
I told miss Wentworth the plan
\
that I had laid down for Lady Jersey. She Seemed to think it dangerous,
I wish
she may persuade her Sister to try it.
You do not know how happy it would make me, as I am almost certain of success.
I shall write to you again from Truro in Cornwall, as Sir James has a Seat near that town. We are to go there immediately after the ceremony, which is to be performed on Thursday next at the Grove. I think this happens very well, as a change of place and different objects may ashst Laura in reconciling herself to her new situation. She is pleased herself
at
212 THE   LISH.
at removing from a Scene that brings daily to her remembrance an object that must, if possible, be forgotten.
Sir James is here very frequently, and endeavours to amuse us a thou sand different ways. We were yesterday
evening agreeably surprised one our return from Lady wentworth’s to find a very fine band of music
concealed in the wood. These people are engaged to attend us into Cora -- wall, as the house is Situated on the point of a rock that hangs over the. Sea, and the music, I dare Say, will have a fine effect.
I Iliall expect to hear of the conquests, real or imaginary, you have; made at the masquerade. I fihall think of you. on the delightful evening


\ •
THE   LITE. 2i3
Why I have staid in the country, is a Secret even to St. Auban, which
I
his prosundity of wisdom cannot guess. Time rnay inform him : I will not. excuse my silence on this subject.
You
ANNE WESTBURY
\ I
214
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME
Whe
.Truro Point, Cornwall.
>
N you shall have perused these sheets, your eyes will have paid the tribute of a tear to its melancholy contents.
It is only six days since I wrote
lash How dreadfully has the intermediate Space been filled! I will endeavour to give you Some account of particulars.
On Wednesday morning Sir James de Grey rode over to the Grove, accompanied by a Mr. Davenport, who was his particular friend, and who
came
  215
came by invitation to be present at his nuptials. They Spent the remainder of the day with us, only retiring as Soon as tea was over, in order to give us leisure to prepare for the next day’s journey,
Laura behaved with surprising fortitude, although 1 could see the starting tear force its passage down her cheek many times, when (he thought herself unobserved. Sir James was all Spirits: his mind was wrapped in the most perfe<st calm. He Seemed to contemplate his future happiness j and the expression of his countenance was perfect harmony. After he was gone, Mr. Vernon retired to his library; Emma to prepare for packing up her clothes; I to give Some orders to my maid 5 and Laura to her dressing room, where stie desired to
be
2i6
be left alone. About hals an hour after, I Saw Laura walk down the
V
elm walk towards, the Shrubbery, As I had finished my bufiness with wilson, I followed her. After, a long Search I came to the hermitage, by the fide of which She was on her knees. I immediately struck into a nother part, not wishing to obtrude on her retirement. She had Seen me and followed, her eyes streaming with tears. How good. Lady Anne, are you to Seek a wretch, who is endeavouring to hide even from herself, You have been witness to my weak iiess. I have been embracing my favourite myrtle. It was planted by a hand dearer than my own. It will droop when I am gone; no one will
take that care of it that I have done,
%
(
This tree has witnested vows that
are
  21/
are registered in heaven, and here at
^ \
its foot have 1 been imploring astil tance of the Supreme difposer of events, to enable me to adt with becoming propriety. I have Sacrificed everything to fulfil the duty of a daughter, and I would not be found deficient in my condud as a wife.
I' Sat down and endavoured to comfort her with every argument in my power. She assured me that those
were the last tears She would shed.
We walked towards the house, and were joined by Mr. Vernon, who
looked earnestly at his daughter, and then Said, Laura, my dear, you have been weeping! I am Sorry to See this. You think me cruel: I hope you will not continue long under that idea. Lady Anne, Said he, it was impossible to let my daughter maity VOL. I. L a beggar I
2i8
4
a beggar; an unknown person : one that, however good in himself, might by his connexions have brought difi» grace on my family, which has remained unspotted through a course of nhore than four hundred years.
The Gentleman whom I have provided as an husband for her is, of all others, the most calculated to render her happy, and whose family would add lustre to the brightest situation. Here Laura interrupted him by saying, if, Sir, I have given you any uneasiness, forgive your child; She is resigned to your wishes, and will never, by any conduct of hers, disgrace the family to whom she is going to be allied, or that from which she Sprung. Her father pressed her to his bosom, into which she shed a torrent of tears. He bid her go and
3 coinpofe
♦l
  2ig
compose herself, and he would meet us in hals an hour at Supper; then greatly agitated left us.
Nothing but family pride, of which he pofirefises a very considerable share, could urge him to this Sacrifice of his daughter’s affedfions. We met at Supper, made a very short meal, at which, I will venture to say, none of us were Satisfied, and retired early. I slept with Laura, or to Speak more properly, I Spent the night in her chamber for we were not in bed more than two hours before Agnes came to call her mistress. I love this girl, she is So affectionate. So much inter rested in everything that concerns the family in the Smallest degree, that it would be impossible to treat her as a common Servant. But to my story. We arose, and notwitstanding the
L a fatigue
\
220
fatigue of mind she had undergone, Laura looked extr emely lovely when dressed, She wore a very pale Sappho blue silk great coat with elegant pearl buuons, a white silk ridinc hat, ad
^
orned with an elegant plume of feathers. It is needless to give you a description of emma’s dress or mine, we made ourselves look as well as we could. We were just assembled in the breakfast room, when Sir James and his friend arrived. He was in an undress frock of pearl coloured cloth, looked very well, and was in the highest Spirits I rallied him on our waiting breakfast, to which we had Scarcely Sat down before the clergyman arrived. The sight of
this person absolutely frightened me, although he has one of the best countenances I ever beheld. He brought
his

221
his daughter with him, to be present afthe ceremony, as Ihe has been the neighbour and companion .of Laura from their insancy. Sir James pres sed Mr. Arnold to let Maria go along with us into Cornwall, This was
not possible, as She was engaged at home with company.
aster breakfast we all repaired to the drawing-room, where the indissoluble knot was tied. I kept my eye on my friend during the whole ceremony, as did her Father also; She behaved with a calm resignation. When her Father saluted her after
the ceremony, She trembled So much
%
that I thought she would have fainted, but a flood of tears came to her relief. This was attibuted to weak
nerves.


I hurried
222

I hurried the Servants as much as
\
possible in tying the trunks on the
carriages, that we might get away from this Scene. There was hardly a door betwixt the drawing-room and that of the hall at which a Servant was not weeping, in order to get a glimpse of their mistress as she pasied. The old grey headed butler stood in the parlour, when I came down. Well, my Lady, Said he, pray excuse me, how is my young mistress } her Mother was not married in Such a way j — heaven bless her, and Send she may one day find that comfort in the match she So much needs at present. I assured him I joined in that prayer.
Mr. Vernon and Charles put us into the carriages. Sir James and Lady de Grey in shis post chariot,
myself,

223
myself, Emma, and Mr. Davenport
coach; our maids and Sir
trie
james’s valet de chamber to escort them, in Dr. davenport’s carriage, the happiest party of all the group, brought UD the rear
O i
Wte pasted through two or three
i
nighbouring parishes where the bells
4
were all ringing. Sir james’s Servants, that were lest behind, stood at the park gate, decorated in wshite cockades, to See us pass. •
Everything we lest behind Seemed to indicate Sestivity. I can'speak for myself, I never was in worse Spirits during the course of my life.
I shall not defcribeuhe rest of our journey, but only say, wc arrived at Truro Point about six in the evening, where a most magnificent entertainment waited our arrival.
*- The
224
The wind was blowing hard, and as Sir james’s house is situated on the edge of a rock which projects into the Sea, we were presented with a grand, rather than a pleasing pros pect. When we retired after dinner, we went to the drawing-room window, in order to contemplate the Scene besore us, which every instant grew more trernendous. The wind was whistling and Screaming through every part of the mansion, as is it had been inhabited by perturbed spirits.
Lady de Grey took an uncommon interest in the hurricane. It brought to her mind an object who must, at that time, be on the bosom of the
deep.
The rain poured down in
torrents, whilst the thunder Seemed to shake the rock., The whole horizon


225
rizon, in a kind of twilight darkness, darted frequent Hashes of lightning. We were thrown into the greatest terror. The gentlemen joined us, as, they Said, if was not possible to sit unmoved in the midst of the present tempest. Sir James ordered a telescope to be brought, through which the gentlemen Surveyed the awful Scene before them,
I must here drop the pen for the present, being very much out of
Spirits
I
Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.


••-;. ••■ • •■•,. o ' -.. ' "
•, S‘
t... d • ' •
-. ■ -- - •-•■-■ •,. » •
''
■•;. ' rv.
T' -■ o. ins -..- -
■,, V C - V C- --
•• - ■•; -; • - '. ^
V. ■•. ■;... •.‘‘ c AS.'''
.''' ' '• ' '‘S'", '.'‘•r' "S '' '■• - V
•, .• ■* ' ■'■ ''C', ', ■*■'•••: ^ -
■■.. ■ N :;. - ■■ '* -
. tec., ^ s ■ '
f •.

•; '; ‘■•'t.' n \v '^f'licav : J

«.• ■

• y'
■' - 1'.
• • • '* >' C
•, ' v'

•%l.i • ^yyybc'aiv" 'vm
."••.-■...‘ -- ' ■vo. co

j,

•- • ‘‘i ■ 'f riv
... y, '.
"A
r
./•
*.. •
V' .'■ •>.0 •<- '•. ••■ - .^. • A ■> “'s:. <■ .-\ ^a.axr •ijjf ^ C %*<.•'.•-' ■'■'^ ■ * 'N.. .' • ..- ', •-'»: i' ' ' ' ' '"■■• ' ' '•'■)


SOWN" -: v fria
lc j515 ^v it', V,
/: ■; V- -- -. a dm
'.; V
, r..
■A'


Ari -- i

: AM


V
5w: i
dam
vs. vce^

- ■'■ •>

/.'. -'•• • •., r '.' ■- •'




Ki



S * s ' •; ’• 'j • '*'

V.. '^', » >••, >


^ ri
C -.' '
.. '.? r. ■



S' •?c'3
'• ‘''re.* * --


N AD

T ' ' * ' • *
-•" * V • •*. '
■■ y
■ i..
> : ' •■.
i' •'

..: '! - • -^ •/
- • •■ •. V

. ^'."•- -- : -

. '•■ ' .■ ^. ■ /. T. '■ ’ • - .' 'v‘ "1 '■

'- ■'i.
•xr<
: H
r. '■
r 1
y

9"

FZ3
r
//
^vh
rfc y
; S '. 01
NJ;; • ' -*. >1
'riri •* ^. ■ .a •t’' -
V #1*1




^ it .« 4 • .«
9> »>
* • iw •>
A
lil'v< V
•fcr.v’. tt •



rare book collection
LIBRARY
universityy
PENNSYLVANIA





I y. V

■ r ' ■>

ria AA' ' ' - - rr.. ■
•• -- >x‘ v; N. --; h'••v' v N: :. A .< ■■ •

/■ •• see •■■•' -
te rv'.
f. -

f : PI. : n>v.' sc.■.'>■■.
• i rri. 'y V -- ■'. .' ..••■, »

t.vmiv;
.A.
>. ■, ■-
- •■ 'r,
, y ■
v v ■ it'c A
T '■-. ' V- -- - -- *•■
'., •% ‘
► 1
r .r' - ^
. » •,. V ' ' r ' • • 4. •


. '- -■ - 'r


- t
^ ^ * * * • *. *

< i >-

- va

•'


•., *•’ V
4 1


■ TI
. '■ *. ■*■* '*■ •■
....., ' - -.... -.
C i'"/ ‘.'t .t i'a' /P'■ '■' s'vl' 'r ^lrdf I 'SA'"' - - '" ■■■ va'k.v
“S'
V
V "J
< dr '■ r •ib' b' - 'T' •.. V'
'•■•., ' * / »,
'^b‘ ■• <p'lf I • «> • ^
.-^ '■"• • .bin. ’; '■ AC; : : 'b.bb> - b •
, r ■•.. '.. • b ... __
■ ■' 1.’'. '.V: -.'•: by r' • *. • / ^
y ^ '1' •’., <■'' ■ -■ > r
- * *• /

■ V'C' V i; vtei'v'o' -- T A: : \-. ' ■ : '; '"vfb ’- at"■'' '•'aa 'r
■■ ■'.; -- -- ' •■ - ■/■ vc, A: '/ -- >c.‘c.. -- na;; / V 'A' •' "hf '■■"■■■ •V'\ i\ya ''P.S. 'S '.; Ah- -- '-'
Nr .’. CL C’ : 'N; C’.: - L ■ CS'/.CS: L ite ^tvccb
AAV'V' -- S. • ‘■■vc -- h c, .: : ...A" ";; :; '; ... : : -. C t ^ci A

.V >
', >
lta: ST; is a ■' AV'H: ' - A: ■ 'i claa; iii
Is■'a': ^adriad.i^arir^ r L -■^ -- ■ ii' r ■■. '-•. V"lv '-■■; : T'.' V^’; V -. ■ .s.ll.
ylnl ccs; s ns.l: L - tb; ■; b' ' - -'. ■' y L LL,, V WL :
y cbn^ytynt'ii>sy i y' ^. - .cv.' b' l --.. b.. • - r ^.■', •■y b yr: : -> /y y
V.C?.. ^tr, ivv v'" ■.-••■■'" ■'■■ • .^. i ^ ''■'. ^ '• i -"■■ ' \ ^, : ^‘ "
'.ti.' ••.' '■<.•'••: -. ' ■•- r \ -... ■ •.. ..."'. -.
^cbyy'byy yy^cbtyft; b; '■;.. V y, yl l
sv yyb b 'bv'. .ivy
■•
vyb'vacc>n; cec:; r tt; C ?n; : ^^^^^^^^ ■■.■.:, ■ i ^ '■ ■". 'i A; s 'b ■b'a ba'bt.. by. -- ■ if vobb’:
tabb bbc%c^^ cls%yy ybb: L : by: b; ..,; : .^ b C 'b^byy'b: L y: byb

<'•■• r i.
■y N V
y ..• • -', * •: •, .1. •• •';; <-, y •■ •' ria'' '' ■••• • • :
, ', •» '. • - 1*. * ■ ■ t. •. '
'■'%-. ' ' : * '•'. '. -- ’y * ‘ FK ■ ■,
V 1‘ tie ■C.' b'. b'. ’ft' -- '-.-, '".y
'V.
.. ■
- .< ■*
bile.. ^•.\' rb\., : ■ ' •.•■'■; .r
b. : t '*• « b. ^ ' T • • •,,, - •* •
.VU.
*•,
r>y or i^ yy 'b L ar'rixy \ d.a l'b*"'^'b^bb

- /.

r,,
'i' •■' /.. " -•; •.
■ '. • '’'' »* • • •. "^ .' ' '' • ' ‘ ■ ■■ •.' '■
bbv V ay..; ..vab' *- ’ y, -; b; AA v;. A' - '•*- V .: ••• •.- ‘ .dyc - bv.': .':
V .' '-■•
-% / ' «•• •
V
b V b; b “b. ■.
. ■
f a' yf> o nbyc.

'• ■ V -.'- ■ ‘ ■ .•-• 'b ■'
•; s ■ s... - ' ■
: • •'• • ' '

■ i'
''ben
'«'■' ■

'I..'
V -
'(: baa -- tyb; " .■...', ..say '■ ■ ■.,

; -' A *''. V -- ** '*■ A II .* • ' b; .'.. V ^ '.v.' ■.' ~ ' ' ..•■.*
•'' v vaf y '- '.'s'a’y' ■'..•■ o -•'■-•> •.•.•
■'• i • • -.•. b V '•• ■ -. ■■ V' •■' ..... ' ■/ ' ~* ■
Lb. ■ vy^',, wl ...: : ■.
■ ■bcy nny; -" •‘■■•bb N.L, ■ : ■-'
bcbb •ry.; VA: -: r .bte'n' : -: AB C ' \ ' vy. VA.... ' ''
, b.
..V
*• • '.Jr, :..
X'‘c'b ' •, jvc sb .'b
-. a:.
4-; '. •

..'- v'*.v • •■•■V ’-•' b'bc'‘~’...;.,; y - ' ' V •: 'i.
y.bi\'...> b ornbobbycb '. b.:. ..• y y'l 'ts'. '. -■ bv ••'cyv. .b.: v
b.. .■ CC. *c..: : AA., \., ASS r b. ' ..••V b --. >••.
nia 'aan.c^ay"'*a ..a:; ..bb.^ -- ba;; s yi -- -: .• d'hcbyxr^.vb'y.ca. 'vb yv"’'
NT yaa: aab. — Ybb a aab.cabs’ ... ■■•: tniaaab' \abbacbyb .'nn'v rb.; .^
vs., .-.,, : .b; bbc' •• ceb':
bb: .by, .N..D'
r
r
r 1 -- /
/
i
*. V
Ls'^ — ■
- ^
THE
LABYRINTHS
0 F
L
T
%
•• AI


F
E.


AL ' >
VOL. II
i
a


/ ^
t


• O Fiki to

‘ s '"it
0 *.*.
.- I'
i
^. •’ t V
.♦ ■ '
• 4 »
*0
%
>
; \
V
./
i i \
\
\ *
I
I
*«
/ '

rv?.

s
< 4
/\
/ ••
;

i
# ^
H
*• H
A


4^
55. rt

- -<«-■
i

*
i ♦
C. y


■ THE
L
Y
I
R I NT
7?
H S
O F
F
lo*.»n ‘b«johnitof),
A
NOVEL.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
EXCESSIVE SENSIBILITY,
AND FATAL FOLLIES.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
VOL. II

L O N D ON:
PRINTED FOR G. G. J. AND J. ROBINSON,
PATERNOSTER-ROW, I79t»

VJ. of p*
Ubi
[. -2 > in
VI M
THE

9
; f
i
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER,
d:

f
6
f
♦
I. »
>
(
>
wm,
V
t
V

tjf
i
Truro Point, Cornwall,
In a Sew moments, aided by a Sheet of fire, they discovered a ship tossing about and Seemingly driving towards the shore. The thunder abated, but
s.
the wind increased its fury, ^ The fishermen, who stood round the shore, all declared, that if the wind did not change, nothing could save the veftel.
VOL. II

B
It
•
.«•
ro

O'
ri cv;


2

It was a very large Ship. We distinctly heard the firing of their guns. Lady de Grey was in an agony, it had Such an effect on her Spirits.
“Will not those men lend the poor creatures Some assistance? Said She. Oh, pray. Sir James, use your influence to prevail on them He promised her to say all in his power,
nay, to offer five pounds to each man, if necessary, who would lend his assistance. Mr Davenport went down with him, in order to use every argument in his power. When they were gone, Laura took me by the hand, and Said, “Oh you know not the dreadful apprehensions that possess my mind.’* I begged her to retire with Emma, who was almost as ill as herself, adding, that I would bring her word the moment the Ship
/
6
was
s.
 .
3
was out of danger. I at length prevailed, and they retired to a room from which there was no view of the Sea.
In less than five minutes I law the vessel with only one mast. Lady de Grey was Sending every instant. At this dreadful momeat She entered the
room, saying, that the reality could
0
not, be worse than st e painted it in
\
imagination; and that therefore (he would See the event of the storm. We durst not tell her that Sir James had gone to sea in one of the boats which were driven about by the wind and were unable to ie the assistance they wished. The ship sunk in a moment. Lady de Grey fell into emma’s arms in a fainting fit, I stood almost totally infenfiblei my
eyes were fixed on the boat III which

B z
were
4

were our friends. Every wave I ex
0
pected would involve them in the general ruin. The housekeeper took hold of my arm, and in treated that I would allow her to lead me to her Lady, whom they had conveyed to a couch in the next room. I did So, not knowing what I was about. The sight of Lady de Grey roused me from my stupor, and I cried, where is Sir James? Oh heavens! cried She, is he in danger? Where did he go? I hesitated— — Said She, he did not venture — Hers lost. Oh I know it! No, no, indeed he, is not, said I; compastion prompted him to go out with the boats, but he will instantly return,
A servant brought word, that the fishing yestels; were making for thu shore. We wept the fate of the unfortunate


5
/ortiinate Sufferers, and consoled ourselves with the return of our friends in Safety, hoping! that they might have becrl of service to Some of the
A
ship’s crew.; : Word was brought
that one of the boats was near the .beach, and another not far off. : But
^ K. • f ^
that the one. in which Sir James went out was at a very great distance. As the storm however had ceased in a great degree, there did not appear to be any danger. We then went to the drawing-room to wait their return, and See whom their humanity had been fortunate enough to rescue from the waves. A number of sailors and some officers, we coiild discover, were of the party, all wet through, and hardly able to crawl. One, we observed, was born on the shoulders of the men. We hastened down, in
b3
order
6

.-^ • ^1: •>
•- *• S' Vi ’'

■■ .'fe:
:
^ Vu’

•’. ’er ••>'* j.

order to administer relief if postible. This threw us all again into the utmost agitation. The men bore him into a parlour, and laid him on a couch. As we descended the stairs. Some one Said he is not dead; I am
certain he may be recovered. I almost flew to the place. Lady de
_ »
Grey had feme Salts in her hand, which She begged might be applied to the temples of the genleman.
The crowd that Surrounded him instantly gave way, on hearing her
voice, and we approached nearer the lifeless form, at the sight of which. Lady de Grey clasped her hands,
dreadful Scream, and sunk on the ground. On hearing this, Agnes, her maid, whom stie had brought from the Grove with her, ran to her asti stance, crying, for
god’s
gave a most


r ^

.. i


7
god’s Sake what is the matter with my Lady; her Spirits are not able to Support Such sights.
They had just raised the young
man
in
their arms, when Agnes turned round to take the Salts from
r
the hand of a gentleman. Gracious God, Mr. Neville 1 exclaimed (he: Oh my poor Lady I my dear mistress! atuhese words, 1 was unable either
to speak or think what was best to be done.
They carried Laura upstairs, and I involuntarily followed. When we came to the room in which we had left Emma, who was unable to ac company us down, tears came to my relief, and I related to her the wonderful discovery, which almost reduced her to the state of her sister.
Ba
When
every
•; ■ 'ft. -
- —. C ■ >
.
»»
When Lady de Grey recovered from her Sainting fit, (he went into violent hysterics,, in which She continued for Some time. At length I entreated her to go to bed, and endeavour to compose herself before Sir James returned, who was every instant expetsted. This she.promised, and only begged me to See that the unfortunate Neville should have possible assistance.
Emma went with her sister, and I, as I had promised, went to See what was doing below stairs. On my entering the room, one of the gentlemen begged, that if I was known to Mr. Neville, I would not at present let him See me. I astured him that I was a perfect stranger. I found by this, that Agnes had told this gentleman how we were all situated, and
that
iu

that he had taken me for Lady dc Grey.
Mr. Neville was greatly recovered; So much So as to know his com panions. They told me it was with the utmost hazard that he had been preserved } That getting down the fide of the ship, he had misted the boat fide and had actually sunk under her. He inquired anxiously where he was, and was told, on the coast of Cornwall. I took one of the gentle menafide, and inquired, if bethought any accident could have happened to prevent the other boats from returning, He thought that, the storm having Subfidcd, w’e might expect them instantly. The Same motive, he observed, that induced Sir James to put to Sea, might detain hirn a little longer.
BS
rr 'i
I nc
10
The moon was just fifing, and from the window we discovered the vessels at a Small distance. Good God! Said Major Grenville (that being the name of the gentleman to whom I was Speaking) what can we do with Neville? he must not stay here! To know where he is, at the present moment, would throw him into Such distress as might endanger his lise.
Mr. Neville, who was looking at the picture of Sir James, which hung over the door, begged Major Grenville to come near him. For heavens Sake, Said he, inquire whether that is the picture of the owner of this house? Is that the lady of the house } Pray answer me quickly : my senses are bewildered, and I would Sain
think I am in a dream.
Maj
told
  II
told him, that he understood that it was the owner of the house whose picture he Saw. He covered his face with both his hands clasped, he took them away, and then looked attentively at me. I ordered the Servants to leave the room, fearing lest in his delirium he might discover a truth best concealed. When they were gone, I drew nearer to him than before, and begged him to recollect and compose himself, hoping he would Soon recover from the accident. Oh, Madam, Said he, you are mistaken if you think I wish to live! Death, in any shape, would be preferable to my present' situation. I have one request to make, for which I may be thought impertinent: may I be permitted to inquire your name? Be afi'ured this request arises not from
B 6
any
V
12

any idle curiosity— — he waited
anxioully my reply.. Westbury, Sir,
*
is my name, with which, I think, you are not unacquainted. Heavenly powers! am I under the Same roos.
Grenville, let us go — I would Suffer any death, rather than continue longer in this house. Why, criiel friends, did you preserve me When to have let me perish would have been Such an act of mercy. Forgive me. Lady Anne, you know my situation, and can feel for it. I dare not ask any questions: your presence at this place answers them all. I will go instantly, ere Sir James returns. I could not See him exulting in his happier destiny.
We thought it advisable that he Should be removed to the next town, which was only about a mile
from

13
from the Hall. A carriage had been Sent for to remove some of the gentlemen, who, as they had been informed of this being the day of Sir james’s marriage, wished not to intrude further on his hospitality
^
That circumstance was luckily concealed from poor Neville, lie being in a state of insenfibility at the dime the other gentlemen heard it, and
they, in pity to his feelings, had since been filent. After they had taken some refreshment, the carriages being come, they assisted Mr, Neville, who was yet extremely weak, into one of them. He was Scarcely alive, but pressed my hand to his lips, and could hardly articulate ten thousand thanks. They drove off.
I then turned my thoughts on my friends above stairs. • Just as I approached
14
proached their chamber door, the bell at the gate was rung with great violence. I returned to the parlour in order to receive Sir James. Mr. Davenport entered; his Sace pale as death. For god’s Sake, Sir, what is the matter Where is Sir James? He flung himsels in a chair and covered his Sace with his handkerchief. 1 went out of the room, not being able to wait the coming of the Servants. The housekeeper met me. Oh my Lady, what will become of our poor Lady? Why, where is Sir James, Said 11 Oh he ventured too rashly — he is drowned. I do not think the instant stroke of death could give me a greater shock. As Soon as I had power, I returned to Mr. Davenport, who Said, pray ex cuse me, I really had not the power
of
  i5
9
of Utterance when I first entered: where is Lady de Grey? how shall we impart the dreadful story to her? I Said, that the fatigue of mind she had undergone during the storm had been too much for her Spirits, and that I had prevailed on her to try and compose herself.
I entreated him to give me an account of the dreadful accident. He Said, that the boat that they were in approached the wreck as near as they could, in order to pick up the drowning wretches who were floating on the waves; that just as they were about to return, the body of a man almost quite exhausted was thrown by a wave nearly into the boat. It Sunk down but came up again, when Sir James, who stood near the edge, leaned over the fide, and got hold of
the
l6
the hand, as we suppose, of the drowning man, when, in an instant, a Squall of wind nearly overset us, and threw my poor friend overboard; nor could we ever, see the least sign of him afterwards. The poor creature, as we imagine, was at that moment finking, and Sir James, we think, unfortunately took hold of him, and that he had never let go his grasp, but dragged him down with him. We have been these two hours endeavouring to find the body, but to no purpose. I hardly knew how to
return. Never, Surely, was Such nuptials as these. I would freely have given all I posteffed to have Saved my friend. A poor Sailor stripped instantly, and jumped into the water, but to no purpose. He
Swam

17
Swam about until he was nearly dead before he again reached us.
Lady de Grey rung her bell. I begged that none of the Servants might inform her of the melancholy event. I did not wish to inform Mr. Davenport of the Scene to which she had already been witness, but thought it best to mention to him, that Lady de Grey had been greatly shocked by Seeing Some of the ship’s crew who were brought in almost dead, and that I feared this Second
shock would overpower her quite.
»
We agreed to send an express. to Mr. Vernon immediately, requesting him to come directly to us. This I left Mr. Davenport to do, whilst I went to my friends. Every Servant was in tears; my own eyes were in the same condition. The instant I
Saw


i8

law Laura she asked, where is Sir James? Surely he is returned before this time. I cannot see him, indeed I cannot, in the state of mind in which I am at present. I did not answer her, for indeed I knew not how. Agnes, who stood by the bed stde, sobbed aloud. Gracious Good! is that unfortunate youth dead? he is, — I am sure he is. — But, Neville, although I am now the wife of another, I will not linger long behind thee. That God who permitted our Separation, can at his pleasure distolve this union, and unite us in death. I astured her that she was wrong in her conjecture; that Mr. Neville
was So much recovered as to be re
#
in a carriage to Truro, at his own request. Did he know that I
was here did Sir James see him?
what
  tg
what does he think of my not joining the company? Do not ask me, my dear, Said I, the events of this day have rendered me unable to answer so many questions. It is now near midnight, and it is fit you should
endeavour to compose your mind to rest.
I hoped that before she should a wake in the morning Mr. Vernon would arrive, and that he would break the dreadful catastrophe to her. I ordered Agnes to sit up with her Lady, but on no account to im part to her the death of Sir James.
I cannot account for my being able to Support myself through these misfortunes, So well as I have done.
My
have undergone a very
Severe shock, and it will be long ere they recover their former tone.
I did
1 %
2 O

I did not steep a moment. Mr. davenport never went to bed. So anxious was he to go out and examine round the coast is the merciless waves should have cast.the corpse of his friend on shore : and also to wait the arrival' of Mr. Vernon, who, we calculated, might arrive by eight in the morning. I arose at Seven, and sat trembling every instant lest Lady de Grey should be stirring, as she is
naturally an early riser.
Whilst I was waiting, Mr. Davenport returned, but without any tidings

He had Sent out boats with a
promise of a very large reward, if they should find the body. We sat in filent expectation. At length, about half past eight, Mr. vernon*s chaise drove up. I was unable to stir. Mr. Davenport went to receive
him
THE   LITE.
21
him. The tears rolled down his venerable cheeks, as he entered the parlour. Ah I Lady Anne, Said he, how Shall I See my poor Child? Is She acquainted yet with her loss No,, Sir, we waited your arrival. Alas I how can L break it to her, who am So truly afflicted myself.
I
I rtook an opportunity of relating
_ m
to Mr. Vernon that part of the story with which Mr. Davenport was un ‘ acquainted. This Served to increase the misery of the good old gentleman, and. excited, very dreadsstl.ap prehenfions.for the health of Laura, He thanked me much for my great prudence, in not giving the least
hint ltd Mr. Davenport that Mr.
Neville was known to lany of the faihily;; =, ^ ^.
> V 1 4
Agnes
22
Agnes came in, as (he heard her Master was come. The poor girl wept at sight of Mr. Vernon, as if he had been her father. Oh! Sir, Said she, my poor Lady — Ah! how is Ihe? My poor girl, thou hast Severe
afridtions to encounter. God forbid. Said Agnes, that my Mist refs should ever have more than the present, for she has been weeping and praying all night. She only dropped asteep once, and then she awoke in such an agony, that 1 thought it would have been her last moment. She bid me come down and see who was risen, and to tell Lady anne*s maid, that the moment her Lady waked she wished to see her directly. I said, I would go to her immediately, and endeavour, if poshble, to calm her
mind,
\
  23
mind, So that (he might hear the dreadsul tidings.
I went to the bedside of Lady de Grey, — Oh, I have pasted Such a night. Lady Anne, you know not what I have Suffered; but I hope to be able to act with propriety. Does Sir James know that Mr. Neville was here? 1 Said, you cannot guess to whom I have just been giving breakfast. Should not you be greatly Surprised to See any of the family we left at the Grove? — My brother is come to chide me for deceiving
the man who was once his dearest
friend. What could 1 do? I was
/
blameless, you know. — This is not as you suppose. Mr, Vernon is below, anxious to See you; he will wait on you in your dreffing room. My
What
Something
24
Something is concealed from me, I
am Sure: let me not remain
any
longer in fuspence. She arose directly, and hurried on her clothes, that She might know her doom. Something dreadful was yet behind : her apprehensions, she Said, convinced her it was So. I did not answer, thinking it best to be filent.
As soon as (he was in the dresting room, I went down, leaving with her Emma, who had been informed before, by Agnes, of the death of Sir James. Mr. Vernon went up to Lady de Grey. He remained with her more than two hours, and broke
the matter to her as well as it was
%
postible,. It had Such an effect on
her that she Sat motionless in a state
} '
I
of perfect infensibility.,
I went
  25
I went up, and took her by the hand, which was as cold as death.
I offered her my Salts; she did not Seem to hear me. Very luckily the Surgeon who had been Sent for the day besore to attend Mr. Neville, called, and Mr. Vernon desired that he might See Lady de Grey. She was let blood, which gave her the power of breathing. We put her to bed, and the Surgeon desired she
might be kept perfe<stly quiet, and, that we should answer as few questions as possible. This was done without her uttering a single word,
ft
although we were all in tears around her. Mr. Vernon went down to Mr.
Davenport, who was in as great dis tress as any of us.
I have given you a very long journal, considering the agitation my
VOL, II
C
mind
26

mind has been constantly in since I
t
have been here. I look on everything
around me with a kind of horror.
I do not think Lady de Grey will remain long here, when She is able to be removed. She has continued in a deep melancholy ever since She was made acquainted with the dreadful fate of Sir James, which is now three days. Mr. Davenport left us this morning. Charles Vernon came here the day after his Father. Indeed I Shall be glad when I again reach my home. Any one but myself, who have Spirits enough to Serve two or three ordinary women, would have died under the fatigue I have undergone.
Adieu, my dear Madelina. Give me a line from the land of the living,
2 for
  27
«
for I am in that of the dead. Let
me know what you hear in town of that abominable wretch Jersey.
Oh, I had like to have forgot that the Surgeon who came to See Lady de Grey told me, that Mr. Neville could not be prevailed on to stop at Truro one night, but proceeded directly to Portsmouth, where he Said there was another vestel, in which he might be yet in time to embark for Gibraltar. The Surgeon pronounced him stark mad. Poor wretch! I should not wonder if he were So in reality.
In my next I hope to give you a more pleasing account; a more me t lancholy one than this I cannot. Adieu.
yours,
ANNE WESTBURY.
C 2
28
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
Portsmouth
/
have doubtless heard from Mr. Raymond of the dreadful situation I so lately experienced. dont you think that my ill fate pursues me
4
with its utmost rigour? nor will it relent until I shall have resigned an existence that has ever been a torment to myself, and quite indifferent to every one else.
Thank heaven I did not see Laura. To have been witness to her Sorrows would have been more than I could have born.
How
THE   LIE. 29
How Short a way do we See into futurity I When I embarked for Gibraltar, I considered myself as removing from the Scene where all my
Sorrows were centred. But a very
%
few days brought me to the only place on earth I wished to avoid, with the additional misery of knowing the fatal knot was tied, and that my presence could only Serve to agi

gravate feelings already too acute. However, under very Severe bodily pain, my mind retained Sufficient firmness to resolve on my immediate removal, before Sir james’s return which I effected. Oh Lafcelles! I
a
shall never forget the ten thousand horrid ideas that rushed on my dls^ ordered senses, when, on recovering a little, my friends raised my head' from the Sofa on which I was lying.
c3
The
20
The first objecst that presented itself, at that dreadsul moment, was a whole length pidure of Sir James de Grey; and, at the Same time, I perceived a southeast male about the lize of Laura, Speaking to Major Grenville at the window
I hardly had power to ash, whether that was the Lady of the hpuse whom
I Saw. Before I could get an answer the Lady advanced towards me, which relieved me from fuspence : she Said her name was Westbury. The rest was known immediately, when I re colleded Lady Anne Westbury was the friend of Laura. I am certain that she is posteffed of great sensibility. Though she said little, yet I Saw in her countenance what con
H
vinces me that her mind is posteffed of the finest feelings. I was a thousand times prompted to request per
mistion
tongue
 3 I
4
million to Speak a word to Lady Anne in private, only to alk whether the object of my affedions was under
the Same roof with myself; but my
resused. Fearing to hear what I wished to be insormed, I departed in total silence. When I arrived at the inn at Truro, I was Soon relieved by the landlady, who came to entreat I would go to bed. — Dear me! who would have thought, Said
she, that Sir james’s wedding day would have turned out So full of mif
Well, I hope it is no figri
of bad luck to the young couple. God bless her Ladyship, she looked like an angel, as she pasted my house, this morning In an agony, not knowing what I Said, I exclaimed, Oh she is indeed an angel! Did your honour know her before this here
C 4
dreadful
32

dreadful accident. I interrupted her by Saying I was very ill. She then hoped I would excuse any noise in her house for that evening, as all Sir jambs’s tenants were to Sup at her house, in honour of the wedding. Th is determined me to proceed for this place, even at the riik of my life. Could I stay and hear the coarse rejoicings of a parcel of rustics, for an event that for ever robbed me of peace? The very bells were sounding my misery. In Short, distraction was everywhere Surrounding me. I instantly ordered a post chaife, and prevailed
on
me.
Maj
Grenville to accompany
The Major had been most kindly attentive to me ever since he
was made acquainted with my misery
#
by the unguarded Agnes, who is
maid
  3 J
t
maid to (I cannot write the hated name, I will still call her), Laura.
1 have been interrupted by Major Grenville, .who brought a news paper in his hand, with the intelligence that Sir James de Grey perished in an attempt to Save the lives of Some
people who were shipwrecked on the
!
coast of Cornwall. For heaven’s.
\
sake, lascelles, inquire into this. surely it is not true. Perhaps my
being carried lifeless into the housh gave rise to the report. If true,,
what will become of that unfortunate;
«
fuiferer? She will, I know, accuse herself, and perhaps me, as the dreads full cause. The world too, cen; -
0
forious and ill natured, will aim the venomed shaft of malice at her breast,, which is the Seat of purity and honour.

Cs
Relieve

>.

34

Relieve my mind from suspence
by the return of post. We shall
not fail these two or three days, therefore
you have time to write. There
was no mention of the names of
those who were saved from the wreck.
•I
therefore I may escape unnoticed, and
Laura may avoid what she so ill deserves,
— censure.
L am really vastly ill, from fatigue
of mind. The blow I got on my
head was only a slight contusion,
from which no bad effects were to be
apprehended. Do not hint to Mr.
Raymond that I am so ill. Say that
I am preparing with all expedition
for a second embarkation.
I hope you will long enjoy both
health and happiness, although these
bleifings are denied your friend.
/
THEODORE NEVILLE
rite L A B YRINTITS’ OF IFS. 35'
MISS WENTWORTH
T O
MISS EMMA VERNON
A D it not been for the very Severe indispofition of Lady Jerfeyj. with whom I now am, nothing should have prevented me from attending
Lady de Grey, for whose misfortune we are most truly Sorry. I greatly fear she will hardly be able to Sustain the shock Sir james’s untimely death must occasion. Should the subjedi not be too painful, Lady jersey and myself would thank you to write us; the circumstances of that dreadful day. As there are numerou we cannot rely on any as true
C 6 b
'4.
36
be very particular as to the health of our dear Laura.
{
Indeed Emma, I have a task almost as hard and as painful as yours to perform. It is to sit by the couch of an amiable lister, whole heart is nearly broken by Sir william’s desertion. To add to our grief, Ihe is
declared to be pregnant: a circumstance that would, twelvemonths ago, have rendered her supremely happy, as it would also have done that perfidious man, who now openly lives in defiance of all Sentiments of justice
and honour. Our mother has
>
written to him on this subject, and
#
has great hopes that this, circumstance may produce the happiest effect. Heaven send it may!
It was impostible
ceal Je mother,
Y
who

37
who was always watchsul for the letters. My concealment of the contents of Lady jersey’s alarmed her so much, that I found that the absolute certainty could not be worse than the apprehension. I therefore
broke it to her as easily as possible
/
I concluded the dreadful story I repented the talk I had undertaken, for She was So deeply affected, that I greatly feared it might endanger jher life. When She had a little recovered the shock, she determined to
go instantly to the Farm, well knowr
#
ing jemima’s constitution could not bear her up under Such a calamity as Sir william’s desertion of her must
9
occasion. All I could fav to the contrary could not prevail on her to wait until the morning. Her terrors
of travelling by night were laid aside,
, #

I
38
«
and at six in the evening we lest Harewood, the very day after you left the Grove. On pasting this place we stopped to inquire for Mr. Vernon, and were then first informed of your dreadful accident. Mr. Vernon being with you, wc proceeded on our way to the Farm, ‘where we arrived the next day to dinner. My
Sister was then very ill in bed. It is impostible to describe the meeting between Lady Wentworth and her. It was all that the tenderest affection could Suggest.
We were greatly Shocked to see what ravages grief had made in so Short a time on the features of Jemima. She strove to look cheerful, in order to calm the grief of Lady Wentworth, which it was impostible
for her to conceal. The Physician,
the

  39
the next morning, declared, that it was his opinion, that Lady Jersey was pregnant, that in a few days he would be able to ascertain it. He yesterday Said, that what he before supposed, he was now certain of; and advised that stie should be kept quiet, and that an express should be immediately Sent to Sir William. This was done yesterday, and we anxiousty wait its return. Surely he will hasten to his injured wife, and, by a different conduct, induce her to forget her past misery in her future happiness.
It was not until yesterday that we told her of your sister’s misfortune, at which she wept much. Poor Laura, Said she, is doomed then to fuster as well as myself. We will go together, • and Seclude ourselves
from
/
40
from the world. I wish she were near me. I am only fit Society for the unhappy.
Let us have a line from you as Soon as poshble, for though our own situation
is dreadful, we can feel for that
«
of yours, and shall weary heaven
with Supplications for the restoration
>
of peace to both families; in the hope of this I remain,
Yours,

HORATIA WENTWORTH

41
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
T O
LADY ANNE WEST BURY.
You might well Say that I would
pay
the tribute of a tear to the
mournful contents of your last; those who could read and not weep, must have hearts of adamant. I do not know that 1 was ever So much affected at anything in my life. Not that I felt So much for the dead, as I did for the living. Lady de grey’s
situation was pitiable in the extreme. But if I were in her situation, I Should not, I think, in my heart, be So very Sorry. Poor Neville! why did not you comfort him ^
You

42
You are the conversation in all the circles we frequent; and I am Sorry to Say, that a thousand stories are related about Lady de Grey and Mr. neville’s attachment, that I am Sure are the children of the brain of
N
those common retailers of scandal, which are to be met with in almost every society. I had very nearly broken the rules of politeness last night, when they were relating their scandalous anecdotes, by giving the
direct lie to two old tabbies, who were loading each other with news. Dear me. ma’am, Said one, did the young man attempt to astaffinate Sir James How shocking! how wicked! Oh no. ma’am, replied the other, no, no: there had long been an extraordinary kind of correspondence
between these young people, which
Mr.
r
C

43
Mr. Vernon was lucky enough to find out besore it discovered itself. Then a loud laugh between these hags took place. Well, Says the other, then that was the reason why the
match with poor Sir James was con
►
eluded So quickly. For my part, I think differently from most people, for his death, in my mind, was a blessing. How afilifted must he have been, had he lived to find out how much he had been deceived What must that wicked Neville feel, who, they say, was the means of
I
oversetting the boat Sir James was in, and who ventured his own life to rescue his enemy
They would have gone on in this strain until the present moment, I am convinced, had my patience lasted as long.
I have
44.  .
I have listened. Ladies, Said I, in Silent admiration, at the fables you have been just relating. Fables indeed, Said miss Petworth; I believe, Lady Madelina, it would be very well is it could be considered as a fable. Aye indeed, replied Mrs. Archer: you are not surprised, are you, to find wickedness exposed to the just contempt it deserves??
Ladies, Said I, I am not; but 1 am
%
Surprised to hear you both Speak of an event, and relate as Sadis, what I find you are equally unacquainted
with; when, at the Same time, the
0
character of a truly amiable woman is made the victim of your misinformation— — Madelina, it does not look well to See So young a woman Supporting any character that is So doubtful as is Lady de grey’s.
Ladies.

I
fi
  4^
Ladies, Said I, I never had but one governess, and (he taught me to detest a falsehood, though it (hold
come from the lips of my parent;
I therefore, that you might not seem to utter one under a mistake, I thought myself but doing justice in endeavouring to fet you right. They 1*1 both bridled; and my Mother coming up, I left her to finish the dispute.
She told me, after they were gone,
, that she had related most part of your letter to them, and that she was Sure they were less pleased to find Lady de .Grey entirely guiltless, than they
would have been to have joined in her condemnation. I ever did hate these two women, and I shall henceforward detest them.
You
I
K
[•
111
ll
'll
46
You desired to know what I hear of Sir William jersey. I will tell you, with this caution, that I am relating from mere heresay, and therefore may be guilty of the fault I have just condemned; though I know you will acquit me of the same malignity. It was Said at Lady lucan’s route, last night, that Sir William had gone off with Lady susan Strangeways to France, from Brighthelmstone; and that Lady Harriet had consented to accompany her lister. I can hardly believe the latter part of the intelligence; as I cannot suppose Lady Harriet, without attachment. So dif folutc as to countenance her sister’s infamy. However, this is affirmed
for truth. Their relations are greatly incensed at their unprincipled conduct.
Poor
I

  47
Poor Lady jersey I I long to hear bow she Supports the misfortune. Every one pities her, and execrates the wretch who could injure her.
I suppose you will be on the wing for the Castle soon, as you imagine that Lady de Grey will not continue long where she now resides. Your Brother is paying his addresses to Lady Lucy Fenton, I am told, and will marry her, it is said, out of spite. She will never trouble him with theatricals, for it is with the greatest, difficulty that she is able to Speak. Her frame is too delicate for walk;
; has left that off these six months. It is Supposed that when she is carried down to the Castle, St. Auban will inclose her in a glass cafe similar to those in Westminster Abbey, which contain the figures of
some
ing
O
48
fame of our deceased queens. I shall come and take a peep at her, as you
will still do the honours of the fa
\

I had forgot to tell you that our masquerade is over, and as they are in general all alike, I think a description of one the most tedious thing in nature. The dutchefs’s taste was admired: “No taste like hers:
Never was anything half so delightful, so exquisitely charming, ” was the language of the evening.
The next morning was spent in restoring the house to its former state; and the present time is employed in making preparations for our journey into Derbyshire; which is not quite so pleasing, as I formerly hinted to my, Mother, as all our former prepay
rations,
  49
rations, although much more So to
me.
As Soon as I get to the Abbey I will write again: till then I rev

main
MADELINA MORTIMER

IT.
. ■ t
■■ 1$'?
VOL. II
D
50
MISS EMMA VERNON
.r f

X

fi 1
V V
rt

O
U


ri (LA if
MISS WENTWORTH.
Truro Point,
OUR kind letter, my dear friend,
arrived late last night. I take the
earliest opportunity to thank you for
it, and to Say that my Sister is extremely
ill. Her Spirits have received
a shock, from which I fear it
will be very long before she recovers.
Morning Herald of the 2oth (which
I have not the least doubt but you
have read) for an account of the unhappy
accident, as every circumstance
is there related as exactly as it is possible
for me to do, in our present
k
situation.
I o h n * J j

h
no ru tonne

I
I must beg to refer you to the |
  51
situation. I cannot think where these people get the news So cor redlly. /
-
have i^ever been able to fihd' the body of Sir James, which afflidis us all extremely. My Sister has offered large Sums of money, to induce the fishermen to use their best endeavours, but these have proved, as yet, ineffectual.
I read your letter to Lady de Grey, who was much affected at its contents, and desired me to say to Lady
jersey, that her first visit, when she
went abroad, should be made to the Farm. My Father is for our removing to the Grove directly as Clifford
t
Place is so hear, and, as he thinks, that Laura will regain her health and spirits by changing the Scene, better
than by remaining in a place which
D 2
cannot
\
c2
cannot fail of presenting horrid images
to her imagination.
V
Lady Anne Westbury has been
with us, and contributed all in her
power towards my sister’s recovery.
Indeed had she not been here, I must
have sunk under the fatigue of spirits
I underwent. Our Father is greatly
j
and sometimes, when a little peevish, '
blames us for fustering him to quit
the house in Such a storm. For my
own part, I was So frightened, that
I did not know that he was gone,
until Lady Anne, growing alarmed
for his safety, informed me of it.
Laura has never left her room
since she was first informed of Sir
james’s death : nor will she ever go
into that part of the house that fronts
the Sea, She Says, the sight of the
spot

  53
Spot where the accident happened, She believes, would deprive her of her reason.
The title and escate devolves on'a first cousin, a young man, who was before rather in indigent circumstances. He has written a letter of condolence to my Sister, desiring that she will not hasten her departure Trom Cornwall, to him; Clifford place, with the house in town, to my Sister. My Father wrote the answer, as Laura was too ill, thanking him for his attention to Lady de Grey, but that she could not think of staying longer here than her health made absolutely necestary, and would inform Sir George the instant she quitted it, which would be in about four or five days. I therefore make no doubt but
This house belongs
d3
we
54
we shall take you in our way to the Grove, if only to stay an hour.
Poor Lady jersey! Surely, by this time. Sir William is with you. He cannot hear of her present situation, and also of her Sufferings on his account, unmoved. Lady Wentworth should go to Brighton, and expostulate with Mrs. anson on the extraordinary behaviour of her Niece, and
represent how much
jersey
Suffers by her imprudence. This, I think, could not fail of having Some effet, as, after this, his visits could not be admitted. You must excuse my giving advice where Lady Wentworth is; but my good wishes for Lady jersey’s peace prompt me to Suggest a hint, which I sincerely hope is, before this time, rendered useless by the presence of Sir William.
Lady


55
Lady Anne desires her best compliments to the whole family, and begs me to Say, that She will be a very good neighbour when we can Spare her from nursing. My father’s best respetsts attend you all. And I
remain
Yours,
EMMA VERNON.
Da
56 THE   LISS.
t
sr
LADY WENTWORTH
T O
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY.
SIR,
we last parted, I never
When
thought itpoffible that my pen could be employed in writing on the present Subject to you. The talk is painsul, but must be persormed. It is a duty I owe to my Child. It is a duty I owe to myself. As a parent I demand, and expect an immediate answer.
In what has Lady jersey given you cause of offence? I know her dispo fition So well, that, if She has given any, it has been without intention j
as.
>
t
  57
as, at this moment,, she is finking under a weight of Sorrow, oecafioned by your very extraordinary conduct Whilst you are revelling in Scenes of
dissipation, stie is hastening to an untimely grave, still blessing the hand that gives this mortal blow to all
her happiness.
I cannot sit unmoved, whilst I behold the filent tear steal down her pale cheeks, and not think for whom
they were Ihed: for one, I fear, unworthy of them. Let me entreat you
#
/
to reflect ere reflection come too lateo
In what is the object of your present shameful partiality Superior to your Wife? I will presume to name one perfection, where there can be no competition, — purity of mind. In
nothing can the depravity of the hu
f
man
^ t
58
man heart be more clearly evinced, than in the conduct of a Semale, whose arts are, levelled at the peace of an amiable Wife. Such I pronounce yours; yet you have deserted her without a moment’s thought, and at a time when other men would be more particularly attentive.
You will shortly. Sir William, have the name of Father added to
i
that of Husband. In what manner will you stand excused to yourself should you be the murderer of your Child, as well as Wise, whose heart is nearly broken, though she does not complain. I hope I am right when I attribute your present conduct to thoughtlesthess, and not to want of principle.
Should this letter produce that
effect which I hope and expect it
will, I shall embrace you, on your
return
  59
return to the arms and affections of the best of women, with tears of joyw Let me asssure you, that in following the paths you at present pursue, you are planting daggers in your own bosom, to which every Succeeding day must add additional poignancy. The
unprincipled woman who with holds you from your family will, herself, be a constant Source of misery. Her attachment will not last like my jemima’s, to the last period of her ext

r /
istence.
%
Let me conjure you to take half an hour’s Serious thought. After this, 1 am sure you will order your chaise into Berkshire : the fieht of
which will produce unspeakable joy to a family which are now plunged in unspeakable sorrow. Do not fear any reproaches, although justly med
6
rited.
6o
rited. jemima’s happiness, at sight of you, would be too corhplete to admit of one uneasy thought.
In the hope that you will realise what maternal fondness paints to my
imagination, I remain.

Affedlionately Yours,
H. WENTWORTH.
jr
\
9
  6l

S I R w I l1 IAM jersey
T o
EDMUND L A S C ELL E S.
Paris..

1 HIS is the land to livevfh! Give me joy of my arrival, and of the prize I bore from your stupid country. Lady susan has blested me with her heart, and 1 am the happiest fellow breathing. She is the modern Cleopatra, and I the Anthony. “All for Love, or the World well lost.” So it is. Existence is not worth a straw, when we cannot follow our inclinations.
Now you would have sighed in secret, had you been in my place;
and
62
and perhaps have run the risque of the fair one’s expiring for love. No, no! We have adopted a better plan. Cupid Spoke a word in my favour, and with a few protestations of unalterable fidelity from myself, the
presence of the priest was rendered unnecestary. The divine susan determined to rest her hopes of future happiness on me, and trust lierfels in tirely to my care. I lost no time, after
having gained this point, to prepare everything a' quietly as possible for our departure for this place. susan was also employed in persuading her Sister to accompany us. This I a greed to, in order to please her Ladyship, who did not like to brave the censure of the world alone. 1 believe there was another advocate in the breast of Harriet, who whispered a
few
b
/

I
THE   LISS. 6j
few Soft words in favour of Charles Vernon, who, though absent, was not forgotten. She consented to be of the party.
I have no doubt but this will be a matter of general surprise. I shall
i
be thought a bold fellow to run away with two women at one time. I like eccentric characters, and therefore have no objection to be thought one myself. Old Mrs. Anson will be obliged to me for carrying off these girls, for they were quite out of her management.
Wte got off very well; for I contrived to invite both ihe Ladies to ta*sa Sail with me, in a vessel belonging to a friend of mine, which I borrowed for the occasion. I had a packet stationed at a proper distance
from shore, which received the trembling
rit


64
bling Sair ones. We reached Dieppe the next morning, aster a very pleasant Sail. My time was taken up ia quieting the consciencesof the Ladies. Their Confessor could not have taken more pains, nor do I think he could
have Succeeded better.
besore
we
en
more.
i
»
[
Paris, we were totally
6
Jhmille., and are to continue So, until \
h
time, or either o us, (hall be no
1
I think the Vernons have made a good pretty affair of their marriage, which was to be So happy. De Grey was a lucky Sellow; for if he had not been drowned, he certainly would have beeh horned.
I heartily congratulate Neville on his good fortune. 1 doubt not but Laura, after the necessary time for counterfeiting Sorrow is pasted, will
give
II
5-
i
I
r
  65
I am also glad
give him her hand, that old Vernon has been disappointed in this Savourite Scheme of
his.
Emma and Charles will be
left to their own discretion in their choice, as their Father will be sick of projects to aggrandise his family, at the expense of their peace.
I hardly dare to Speak of Lady jersey, even in a letter; for this sub jed 1 have promised never to touch upon it, an d I believe it will be best to exclude it from my thoughts. She has exposed me before I deserved it, and now has to thank herself, if she feels the effects of her own folly. I have ordered my Steward to pay her the half of my income, with which I hope file will rest content. I do
not mean to read any remonstrating
letters
66
letters She, or her officious friends, rnay write; So that they may Spare thernselves the trbuble.
We Shall not stay long here, but proceed to the South of France. I shall wait here until I hear from Vernon, whopromised, when he left
Brighton, to join me at this place, I think he cannot fail when Harriet is the magnet of attradfion.
Send me all the Scandal of London, and also what you are doing yourself, You are So quiet, I can make nothing of you. I am a decided character.
4
The women will call me a rake, Well, let them! Tis all one to
WILL. JERSEY
  67
CHARLES VERNON
T O
THEODORE NEVILLE.
I Have waited a considerable time,
in expectation that I had a friend
who would not entirely forget me; and who would distinguish betwixt my father’s prejudices, and my partiality. 1 have let a considerable time elapse, until I hear that you are about to embark for a distant country in total silence. This is not as I
f
should have acted towards you, in the Same circumstances.
I am equally grieved with yourself at the late dreadful events. Had my opinion been asked, or decisive, these
never
63
never would have happened I cannot help the ambition of my Faiher, or his treatment of you, which, I own, hurt me extremely. But 1 thought you had possessed more liberality, than to be angry with me for faults not my own.
I wish you would not leave this country directly. I am certain that no one esteems your character more than my Father; and, now that his favourite match has misgiven, he
may relent, and give Laura to you.
*
Though this must require Some time for its accomplishment, yet, if it ever should happen, I know you would be rendered happy.
It
IS
worth
waiting for.
If you go to gibraltar, why, a cannonball may prevent your return, and then my Sister will have to break her heart in. her turn.
This
f
Y
  69
This is all ettire nous., for I had the highest respecf for Sir James de Grey, and would not now Seem to treat his death with levity.
My Father returns tomorrow, and
with him comes Lady de Grey, who intends to ressde at difford place
during her widowhood. She is extremely unwell, Emma writes me. A nervous fever has confined her to
her room ever since the death of Sir James.
Let me beg you will not go to Gibraltar, but take a trip to Paris with me. I am going to join Jersey there, who has carried off Lady Susan Strangeways and her Sister. He Says,
that the fair Harriet has avowed a
«
penchant for me: that being the cafe, and being single, I am at the fair one’s Service. Hang me though, if
1 could
 '
✓
I could act as Sir William does, to leave So excellent and So charming a creature as Lady jersey, for all the coquettes in Christendom. The honour of triumphing over coquettes, is like the art of writing fine veises. It costs much time, and repays not the labour.
I am afraid that, in similar circumstance, I Should not be found as obedient as my Sister was; for I would not give my hand where my heart did not give its assent, for an
empire
I intend to die a bachelor.
You know 1 always exclaimed against matrimony, and the older I grow, the more I am confirmed in my o pinion, that a single life is the happiest.
I wrote to Mr. Raymond for your direction, and received a most charming
  71
ing letter in answer. In Some parts indeed it was a little Severe; but as this related to my Father, who deser ved it, and not to myself, I forgave
him. He possesses the most exalted Sentiments, and a most unbounded affection towards you. ’faith I am almost inclined to think he is him fels your Father; his words and actions border So much on the parental.
I can hardly think anything but natural affection could inspire him with the unbounded generosity he has ever displayed towards you.
Let this letter, dictated by the sincerest srienship, have Some weight on your determination. I am convinced my sister’s happiness depends greatly on your’s, although it is im postible for her to signify as much, in her present Situation. I myself
* feel
72
feel a vacuum, which nothing but the return of your usual friendihip can fill up. Write then, and Say, that my advice has its usual weight in your breast.
Yours,
CHARLES VERNON.
  73
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
CHARLES VERNON
DEAR VERNON,
Yo
U R letter gratified my mind
more than I can express. I implore your sorgiveness for leaving England without giving you a line. You was my first friend, and will ever retain your situation in my breast.
Do not suppose that I ever, for a moment, thought you accountable for your father’s opinions in regard to me; which, though I regret, I cannot wholly condemn. ^
Your request, as to my remaining in this country, was dtelated by a friendship., of which I should think
myself
VOL. II
E
74 the  .
f
myself unworthy, could I attempt to stay and profit by the late unfortunate accident, which renders your Sister independent of the authority of a .parent. My situation is not altered, except in that of being placed by Fortune at a still greater distance. I know Laura is Superior to these ideas; and I also know how much she Sacrificed to duty, ever to think she would give her hand, were I mean enough to request: it, in direct opposition to her Father. I must de serve the blesting before I ask it, Vernon. My Spirit, though it cannot boast an illustrious line of ancestry, is as proud as though I had been descended from a caesar.
That your Sister has an affection for me, is the only gleam of comfort
that cheers me in my absence. This
idea
  75
idea I cherish, because I can return it independently of any Sordid views. But, be assured, I will never owe her hand to the gift of any one. ask it of your Father (although I highly respect him) I never will. Neville will either return in Such a character as may justify him in Soliciting the hand of Lady de Grey, or he will fink into the grave, as he has always lived in obscurity, There may, and Something tells me there will, yet be a time, when our friendship will be renewed in its original state. Till which time, believe me, wdth all
ood wishes,
your’s,
THEODORE NEVILLE,

7^

LADY DE GREY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
clifford Place.
It vas not until late last night that
I arrived at this place, under very different sensations from those I experienced the last time I was here, I yet .tremble when I look back on
I
the Scenes that have intervened since that period. You, my best friend, have contributed greatly to calm my mind under afhidlions almost unsup portable. The loss of your Society I shall, and do already very Senfibly Seel. I cannot deferibe the agony my mind
underwent on my approach towards Harewood, Every cottage, nay, every
tree,
•/
!■
  ^7
tree. Seemed to remind me of the many peaceful days I had passed. Sad reverse! — I was now returning to pass the remainder of those wretched days with broken health, broken spirits,
My

and almost a broken heart. Father, Emma, and Charles said and did all they could to calm the perturbation of my mind.
On my arrival at the Grove, the Servants, the friends of my infancy, looked on me with weeping eyes. A' stood of tears relieved me, or I Should have died, I really believe. My Father would not permit me to go to Clifford place that night, as I at first proposed.
I retired Soon, as my spirits, daring the day, had undergone too great fatigue. I wished to indulge my grief in silence; and hoped to come
3 pose
ys
pose mysels to rest, but that was impossible. busy memory Surnished me with a train of ideas that banished sleep. I felt mysels as having been in Some degree accessary to the unfortunate fate of Sir James, who, but for his fatal partiality for me, had still been alive. His virtues, his amiable qualities, will be the subject of
every tongue; and will they not look on me with detestation, who have deprived them of Such a friend? His Servants too, have reason to lament so good a master. — I will endeavour to make up their loss. As I cannot live for my own, the rest of my life Shall be Spent in promoting the happiness of those around me.
I determined on quitting the Grove the next day. Clifford place was a a new Scene, and I hoped to find
relief
.   79
relief in Solitude. Therefore, yesterday morning my Father and Emma condudled me hither.
How different was my reception from, that intended but a few weeks before. The house was altered, and entirely new furnished, according to the orders of Sir James, as the housekeeper told me, with her eyes fwini ing in tears.
Why should I, who am. So unable, be made to bear Such dreadful calamities ^ I will endeavour, through the aid of religion, to bow my head in Silent submission to that Power
9
who sees it good that I should be thus afflidied.
I shall anxiously expect your promised visit. Do not forget to come, for into your friendly breast I can pour iny Sorrows. This is my only
E 4
con
o
consolation. I shall, as Soon as my
Spirits will permit, arrange Some plan

for the employment of my time,
Emma and Charles are to Spend the
day with me. I would not let my
Sister stay last night, as I know my

Father, who is by no means well, is
in want of her Society.
your’s affedionately.
i'.w
LAURA PE GREY.
j
'
t


‘n ■. • *
.
i' --
I ^

., ^ ‘ j' -
-!■


i. n <<
I' S'., r'. '. I

  81
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER.
Audley cafue,
#
ND So you tell me, St. Aubau will marry out of Spite! ’tis but a bad Scheme. Lady Lucy Fenton is exaoiy what you describe. She w’ould make a very pretty picture, but a very bad wife. As to my doing the honours of the house, after St. Auban marries, that is impossible. Whenever that event takes place, I
mean to take a cottage and live for myself. Two years which I experienced of matrimony is quite cient to Serve me. The bitters open
E 5 rated'
52 i'he lastyblnths OB lffe.
rated too powersully during that time, for my ever again venturing on Such a state.
I have taken up the pen the very first leisure moment I have had since my return to the Castle, where I
have been only three days
Lady
de Grey made this in her way to Clifford pkce, as She had promised
Lady jersey a visit. We were all greatly shocked to See this amiable Sufferer. — A Settled melancholy Seems to have taken possession of her fine features. She was pleased to See Laura They both wept much at their meeting, and were Some minutes before either could Speak.
We endeavoured to divert their ideas from entering on the fubjest of either’s misfortunes. This was but an endeavour; for I could See the
mind
H.
i
\

Bz
mind of each was busy in contemplating its own Sorrow.
I learned from miss Wentworth, who, with her Mother, still continues at the Farm, that Sir William
/
is gone, as you informed me, to Paris, and paid not the least regard to a letter written to him by Lady wtent worth. Unprincipled wretch! I have not common patience with him. Lady jersey is very far advanced in her pregnancy. Miss Wentworth told me, that she very seldom Speaks of Sir William. This, she thinks, she avoids, in order to render her. Mother easier in her mind; but it is plain that his base conduct preys on her vitals.
I hope my friend Laura will regain her health and Spirits at clifford place, for I do not actually see what
£6
she
$4

She has to grieve for. She is out of the power of her Father, who extended his tyranny over her as far as a parent could, and much farther,
in my opinion.
than
any parent
ought. Our minds were originally intended to be free; not subject to the control of any second' person. Advice and reasoning are the privilege of a parent; but by no means compulsion, which never fueceeds.
Lady de Grey determines never again to enter into the marriage state, but devote the remainder of her days to religion and acsts of charity. Mr, Vernon, I know, has exacted a promise from her, that She will never think of a second husband without consulting him on the Subjedf. I do not think I should be very Scrupulous in this particular. Neville has
a power
I
»»
  s5
a powcrsul advocate in her breast, I am very certain : and, that Fate will accomplish the rest, I do not doubt.
I understand Charles Vernon is going to join the profligate party at Paris, at which I am greatly astonished. I always considered him as
a young man possessed of Sentiment, and am very Sorry to find myself deceived. Lady de Grey means southeast rioufly to Speak to her Brother before he departs for the Continent. She thinks those that countenance Sir William are hardly Second in guilt
to himself.
How much more
worthy would Charles prove himself did he go over with a view to convince him of his error, and bring him back to an
wise, and her disconsolate parent. When I Spoke to him, which I took
the
86
the liberty of doing at Truro Point, when he came to fetch Lady de Grey, he answered, why. Lady Anne, you would not have me to desert all iny acquaintance because they do not in all points adt with the most perfect: propriety. .No man is accountable for my conduct, nor do I look upon myself as answerable for that of any man. Jersey is a very pleasant fellow, and I like his society. If you would all let him alone, he would fall into the right path of himself; but he will not be driven: of this I am certain. And if this were practicable, I am not the man to attempt it.
How easily these men excush one another, and yet how hard and inflexible are they, when a female
character is in question? They are al.
.
T
 , 87
ways more ready to condemn than excuse the Slightest impropriety, un < less they themselves are the objects for whom it is committed, I heartily hate the whole Sex, my own Brother not excepted,
I give you ten thousand thanks for your defence of the charadfer of Lady de Grey, in making which, you will always find yourselsjustified. Thole old hags., for you certainly gave them a right name, are to be met in almost every polite circle. They are on the perpetual watch for Some chai

racter to destroy, and are never fb happy as when thus employed. You lest them in good hands when your Mother undertook to Set right.
Poor Neville, I understand, has again embarked for Gibraltar. May
he
them
88
he make a more prosperous voyage than the first outset promised 1
My young villagers were all happy at riiy return. I frequently contrive Some rural amusement to divert them, and they always repay me with the Smile of pleasure whenever I approach.
The return of a family, Such as your’s, to the country, dresses every face in Smiles. It gives a kind of gaiety to the Scene, of which eves the rustic is Sensible, besides giving bread to many poor families. To;
Search out, and assist the old and infirm, I know, is your care. The Duke could not have pitched upon a more faithful stewart to his bounty
than yoursctf. You receive a rick reward for your trouble, for it has delighted me often, when we have
walked ^
  89
walked through the village, to hear
even the infants lisping your name, and praying for blessings on your head.
I Shall he glad of a line as Soon as you are again fettled; till which lime, I remain.
/
tour’s,
ANNE WESTBURY.
go

EDMUND LASCELLES
T O
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY.
Clarges Street.
You must excuse me for not being
a very punctual correspondent: my health of late has not permitted me to follow my inclinations. Had I been well, I should not have remained So long in town j the ties of early friendship would have made me attend Neville to Portsmouth. I hope this voyage of his will alter the Severity of his fate, and that before his return it will assume a milder
form. I do think his breast is the
/
seat of every manly virtue! I would
freely

91
freely give half my estate to See his parents restored to him, and himself happy. I am afraid they are dead, or they vrould certainly have appeared to claim Such a Son. Any man
f
might be proud of the relationship, as I am certain he never has, nor ever will, derogate from the character of the man of honour.
I am extremely angry with Charles Vernon. Was it proper to adop6 his father’s pride So far, as to let Neville depart in silence from this country? No! he should have been above Such Selfish ideas. Had I had a sister, and Neville had gained her affections, he should have married her with my full approbation; not that this was in vernon’s power, as his Father was living; but he might,, by attention to this unfortunate
youths
I

02


youth, have Softened the Severity of
his father’s refusal, which was couch
ed in most ungentlemanlike terms.
I hardly know what to say about
yourself, but the world Seem to

think you a prodigious hero. What!
t.
run away with two girls at one time
when one is more than most of us
can manage
But to be Serious, jersey, I am
dilpleased at your conduct, as well
as vernon’s. Lady jersey is one of
my favourites. She is, I think, of
all women, the last to be deserted, if
personal beauty, and more than common
accomplistiments, could command
the affections of a husband. I
am not going to preach, don’t fear
that; though this is a Subject I
could dwell on, and indeed would,
if I thought anything I might Say
would

i
/
1
r
C

93
would have any weight towards re storing her peace, which I am told
is very con fiderably wounded. There
is a report in town that her Ladyship is pregnant. I hope that this is not true, or is it is, that you will confider the bufiness, in which you are now engaged, as a mere frolic, and that you will directly return and Solicit her forgiveness. If you
t
want any one to open the road to your return, I will take that upon myself, as I think the talk will not be difficult.
You Say you will be fit company
for me at eighty. I do not believe you ever will, if similarity of dispo fition is to be considered. You was always a mad mortal, and will remain So as long as you exist, I have always given you credit for a good
heart.
94
heart. And I hope that the weak ness of my head will not be called in question, should I perfist in my opinion. — This rests with you.
If I was to send you, as you desire,
all the scandal of London, my paper must be spun out to an uncommon size indeed; and as you are the principal subject, it might not be So palatable.
I was really extremely distressed at the fate of our friend Sir James, as I think he deserved a better. He was certainly very rash, although this is to be imputed to his humanity, and to the distress experienced by Lady de Grey; whose thoughts, if I judge rightly, were placed more upon the Sea than the land. Not that I would have it understood that
1 mean to reflect on her Ladyship
* for

  pr
for whose character I entertain the
highest respedl.
Having written a long
a valetudinarian, I will conclude with wishing you health.
I am.
letter for


JT
< :
fri'
ivi ■
tour’s,
EDMUND LASCELLES
X.
S' •

'.f <r


g6
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
\
Thornly Abby,
t __
HAVE now Spent near a sort night at this place in a rational manner, and find myself coming
by degrees into my old pursuits. The dutchess thinks I fiball make
a good wife to Some country ’squire, or perhaps parson, I am So well pleased with niy situation. I do not know but I should be happier in Such a station than in Some ■
othen in which I may chance to be placed. We are Surrounded by Some
very agreeable neighbours, and is my
Mother is not determined to be mi
ferable
I '
  97
ferable out of London, I doubt not but we Shall be very happy. The Duke is quite busy already, projecting improvements, and enlarging his farm. He says, that he is cutting himself out a great deal of bufiness, in order that our persua fions may not drag him to town before the time he proposed.
I
Mother
Marq
from his travels, which is now ex pected to take place in about a month, we Should meet him in town if we only staid a week or two; but my Father says, he will, he doubts not, bring along with him a sufficient quantity of foppery from the Continent; and that therefore it will not be necestary for him to stop in London for a fresh supply. So that this
VOL. II
F
scheme
V
t
98
Scheme has failed, and we are condemned to Spend the Summer here without any hope of a return to the Metropolis.
We have got an addition to our neighbourhood, of a city family, a
i
Mr. Anderson, a man who made a rapid fortune by contracting for
corn in the last war, by which my
«.
Father says he almost reduced his own countrymen to famine. He has, I understand, amasted a prodigious fortune, and at last fixed upon Derbyshire to display his grandeur. The family consists of Mr. Anderson, his Lady, two daughters and a Son. Mrs. Anderson is as unweildly as the Lord mayor’s State Coach. She is the Daughter of an eminent Corn Factor, who once served. the
office of Lord Mayor, on which oc
6 cafion,
■|
f
I
p
i <'


99
cafion, his daughter officiated as Lady mayoress. At this period Mr. anderson grew enamoured of her charms, or of ten thousand pounds; a portion which her Father was
particularly anxious to make known that he could give her. Mr. anderson waited upon her Father, and declared himself the lover of Miss;; which, her Father approving of him for a son-in-law, they entered upon particulars like men of business. Mr. anderson wished to have five thousand pounds more in addition to the fortune, which caused a demur of three cr four days, the Father perfisting in not parting with a farthing more. At length it was agreed that they should meet at a tavern, and each bring his friend to judge and decide the matter. After
F 2 dinner,
\.
loo
dinner, and the wine had circulated
pretty briskly, Mr. anderfon’s heart opened, he felt the impression of
the lady’s irrefifiible charms, and he cried, “Well come, to end all dispute make it guineas and i’ll have her.” So ten thousand guineas was agreed upon, and he married the Lady. This was related to us yesterday by a gentleman who was acquainted |
with one of the friends of Mr. An
• •
family. He declared it an undoubted fact, and his veracity we
can
rely
on.
What Should
you
think of an admirer who was So good a calculator? We promise ourselvcs much mirth with this family, with whom the duchess means to vist and live upon terms of intimacy. They will enliven her She says, and
prevent her from being turned into
one
  IQI
one of the petrifactions, for which you know this country is So famous. I wonder the andersons were fond of coming to this country, where, as we stand a little on our ancestry, family pride is not quite extinguished. Unless they had brought a pedigree little short of cadwallader’s in the Farce, they would not be held in great estimation, though they brought along with them the riches of in dostan. I understand the family are making great preparations for the races at Derby, which commence the beginning of next month.; I
wish you would come down and join me in a laugh at their expense.
We
pay
morning.
them a visit tomorrow My Mother has desired
#
to be drested in the Simplest style I can. She herself intends wearing a
f3
plain,
\
102 THB  .
plain, dark, cotton gown, one she
had made Sora masquerade. This
is a little of this Same pride I was
Speaking of, stepping forth in the
shape of humility. Of this I do not
approve
but being under control
I must conform in silence.
I am Sorry to hear you rail against
matrimony. It is a certain Sign,
my Father Says, that you will not
long remain single.
I had promised myself a delightful
visit to your cottage. .don’t disappoint
me I pray you.
I wish my Brother may, return
before the races, as I fear the country
will be dull for him, in which
cafe he will not stay long amongst
us, and I am So fond of him that I
would be always in his company.
1 hope

i
I
 103
I hope to hear, in your next letter,
that Lady jersey, for tvhom, unknown, I am much interested, is restored to peace by the return of Sir
William. Adieu,
Yours,
MADELINA MORTIMEJR..
f4
L
I
I
104
MISS WENTWORTH
T O
LADY DE GREY.
I
The Farm, [
It is with extreme pain I write to acquaint your Ladyship that my
Sister is confined to her bed, and
%
tnat the physician gives US Vcfy little hopes of her recovery. She has struggled with her afhidtion as long as postible. Her frame being at best extremely weak, I fear she droops
never to be revived again. My Mother too is in a state little short of jemima’s. Judge then what a Situation mine is, to watch the dissolution


  IO
lution of a beloved Sister, with almost an absolute certainty that our parent will not Survive the blow.
Remonstrance is vain, or I would write to that wretch who has occasioned all this misery. No I — he
would only laugh at our letters, with those women, who must be dead to every sense of decency or Shame, before they could consent to become a party in Such crimes.
I would ask your Ladyship to dedicate a few days to friendship, did I not know your health cannot permit you to enter into the troubles of others, whilst your own is So recent
in your memory
I hope
time, the common balm to all ills but ours, will restore your ladyship’s tranquillity.
Fc lun
lo
/
I understand by a Servant who has
this minute called, and who lest Sir William a few days ago, that he is gone to the South of France, and
• V
that he never opens any letters from England until they are perused by the creatures who are his astbciates. Surely this infatuation approaches nearly to madness.
We think if we were to dis patch this fellow after him, he might find an opportunity to Speak to Sir William, as he may be
ignorant of the Sufferings and situation of Jemima.
We do not propose to let my Sister know that we have Sent after him, as her anxiety for the return of our messenger might
prove fatal. Pray heaven that
the

I
i
I'
*
I
  IO
the embasfy may be produdive of his return to reason! This Is the last and only prospect we have of returning peace.
t
• Yours,
HORATIA WENTWORTH.

/
f6
i08
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
The Farm.
V
Yo U will doubtless be surprised at receiving this So Soon aster my last; but, my Sister being a little better, she has taken a Sudden resolution to leave this place and go to London immediately. She thinks that in her situation, she ought to be near the best advice. My Mother is also of the Same opinion: we theresore Set out tomorrow morning.
I was yesterday witness to a Scene
that would have drawn tears from
your

  loo
Lady jersey called all
your eyes, her Servants together
She told them
that in her present distressed state,
I
both of body and mind, it was un necesssary for her to retain So many
Servants. She Said that she had
*
called them all together in order that those whom her situation obliged her to part with, might not be fup posed to have fallen under her dif pleasure, as she declared that the behaviour of each might command a character from her that would en title them to any place of which
The
women
they were capable, were all in tears, and the men turned aside and hung down their heads in Silent Sorrow. After a short pause, which my Sister was obliged to make to conceal her own anguish, a general
110  , ral murmur ran throupsh the whole
or
1
\
i
group. — They made application to the housekeeper, who Spoke in the name of the whole. She Said that it was the wish of all the Servants
[
present that her Ladyship would ac j cept of their Services. They did [ not want wages, and would be moss highly gratified if, by their attention and assiduity, they could contribute to her ladyship’s ease, toward the restoration of her health. My Sister was unable to answer— — was silence. They entreated that I would speak for them. Every heart Seemed to Smypatbize in jemima’s Sorrow, wshile the tear of sensibility and gratitude rolled down her pallid
countenance. On her recovering
%
she Said, “my honest friends I
p
thank

  fl
thank you for this last mark of kindness which shall never be forgotten

I am truly Sorry my pre
e
Sent state will not allow me to accept your continued Services; but be assured that my prayers and best wishes will ever attend you. My Spirits are too much agitated for me to go through the painful talk I have begun. My houfi
keeper shall acquaint you with my
\
wishes, with which I have received
s
too recent a mark of your attention to doubt your compliance.
They left the room with a kind of lingering step which Seemed to Say,
“Think again, do not discard us.”
I was happy my Mother was not present. The faithful attachment of these people would have affected her too deeply.
I am

I 12
I am not pleased with our removal
to town.
The change of
Scene may divert fora moment, but the air cannot be So good as where we are at prcsent.
You shall hear again Soon from yours.

HORATIA WENTWORTH.
'%

  113
CHARLES VERNON
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
Lanfanne.
Yo U ought to give me thanks
for being So early a correspondent, as I only arrived here late last night. Besides, I am doomed to wear the willow, and therefore ought to be absorbed in grief instead of writing letters: but I am of pope’s opinion, that whatever is, is right.”
To hold a mystic language no longer — the young Marquis of ar rand.ale has Supplanted me in the affections of the fair Harriet. He
appeared
114
appeared a Subject more worthy of atttention than the booby Son of a country
’squire. He was deeply
finitten, and the Lady could do no
less than return his passion.
The Marquis was on his return
from making the tour of Europe. He now finds a female tutor more agreeable than a male one. What the Duke of Mortimer may think of the exchange, I know not. He
irwr/l n.
w ao

1 n
JL x.lk
f ir\n rvf tvia


marquis’s return, as I was told, in passing through London, in my way hither.
Lady Harriet has no intention or f desire to revisit England, I am very certain. I am very glad things have turned out as they have done,
for I find I am not quite fashionable

  I 15
able enough for intrigue. From the Specimen I have of its effects in my friend Jersey, I am as well as I am. He is absolutely a lunatic. Lady Susan leads him : bout in a string. He v/orships .the very rose cn her Slipper. I can see die does
not relish me much.
She
thinks
me too nearly conne6ted with the Wentworth family to be very sincere towards her. She is very arti

Sul: that I can see already. I shall watch her Ladyship close enough : of that I can affure her. Aad, I must own, I should not be displeased to find her addicted to that fashionable
disorder
•tji.
Then
might it be in my power to bring jersey to his senses.
Nothing elfe
will do it.
I was
Il
I was told at Paris
jersey
bad lost Some considerable Suras at
play.
He and Lady susan when
I arrived last night were at piquet. aster the usual congratulations had pasted, jersey Said, Vernon, I believe this charming creature will win my estate as well as my heart.
t
I never play at cards with her but I lose. Just before you arrived ssie stripped me of my last guinea, I am an absolute bankrupt until I hear from my steward. — 1 am for
J
ry for that, replied I, you used to be my banker in cafes of emergency. Oh! but Sir, replied Lady Susan, he is my banker now, and
I contrive to find pretty Sufficient circulation for his cash, — don’t I, jersey? Yes, faith do you, re
pliec
  I I 7
plied he, but were I in possession of the riches of Peru and Mexico, the treasures they contain should be as much at your command as my poor purse. — You are Sufficiently Satisfied of the folly of this mad fellow 1 am certain.
#
I have waited patiently to see whether he will inquire for Lady
jersey
Last night we were not
alone 5 therefore I excused him : but this morning we have spent more than an hour together; but not a word of home. He inquired after my Father and Sisters, but not a word of the Farm or Harewood Hall. I shall wait the conclusion of this day, after which I shall venture to hint at the probability of his having, by this time, an heir to his
estate.
f
Il
estate, and See what he will Say to that.
You was wrong
when
you accused

me of letting Neville depart in silence, I wrote to him and received an answer previous to his departure.
Yours,
CHARLES VERNON.


119
H ORAL I A WENTWORTH
T O
lady d e grey.
Have escaped from the bedside of my Sister, vtshom I have never left Sora momentjince our arrival, which is now three days, just to inform
you that yesterday morning she was
\
brought to bed of a Son : but 1 must also inform you, that the joy of this event is greatly damped by its being the opinion of every one, that it is very doubtful whether either Jemima or the child can Survive.
The birth of a Son has rather
V
made an addition to her Sorrow. She weeps incessantly over the infant,
and
120
and calls on its cruel father to protect it when she (hall be no more; until all present are dissolved in tears, The child has had very strong convulsions, and it is feared will go off in one. With the child all our hopes of reclaiming Sir William would be gone.
My Mother is confined to her room. The agitation of both body and mind is too much for her.
The attendance on my Sister must excuse the shortness of my letter. The next I hope will convey more favourable intelligence.
I am affectionately yours,
HORATIA WENTWORTH.
  121
MRS. BROWN
T O
LADY DE GREY.
MY LADY,
It is with the deepest Sorrow I obey the orders of Lady Wentworth, who
Set off for her estate in Yorkshire
%
this morning, that I inform your Ladyship of the death of my .most amiable Lady and Child, which happened within two hours of each other. She gave orders, the day before her decease, that she should be buried in the vault belonging to the family, at Harewood, and that the funeral should be performed by torchlight, Some time betweeen
VOL, II
G
the
1 o ^


the hours of ten and twelve at night. She Said, poor dear Lady, that she chose that time, as it would prevent So great a concourse of people, and consequently the indignation which might be raised against Sir william’s conduct. As she forgave him, she
hoped that God and all the world would do the same.
What will become of that unfortunate gentleman, when he comes to hear of the death of So good a Lady 1
I hope your Ladyship will excuse my taking the liberty of writing So familiarly.
miss Wentworth deli red me to say, that as soon as her grief was abated, she would write, but that,
at present, it was imposhble.
An express Set off for Lausanne,
to
\
Tiife labifrtnths OR Lira.
last night. I shall
William
attend the corpse of the best of Ladies to Harewood 5 and will, with permission, wait on your Ladyship. This is from your most obedient Servant,
MARY BROWN.

124
lady de grey
T o
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Clifford Place.
»
Surely, my dear friend, my life
, /
is to be dedicated to. Sorrow, and my tears will never cease to stow. Late last night I received an express
from London, which brought me a letter from Lady jerfey’s housekeeper, announcing the death of that amiable Sufferer, and her Child. To paint to you the agony of mind I suffer on this occasion, is impostible. What must that unfortunate man feel, who has Sacrificed So much goodness to his vices 1
^ Lady

Lady and miss Wentworth are gone to an estate of her ladyship’s, in a distant part of Yorkshire, in order, no doubt, to avoid Seeing the place where j>oor Jemima has dclired to be buried.
The news Spread over the village
last night, as I Sent directly to the Grove, to acquaint my Father of the melancholy event. Every eye this morning is drowned in tears. As Lady jersey was a friend to the poor, they cannot fail to revere her memory.
How uncertain are the events of this life! Who would have thought that Jemima Wentworth, the life and Soul of every Society, only four years ago, should be now lying a lifeless corpse; her death occasioned by the perfidy of the man .who, at
G
3
that
1 z6
/
that period, worshipped her! Surely remorse will now touch his heart; that heart which was callous to the feelings of justice and humanity,
will now be wrung with the stings of a bad conscience. He will feel
the worth of that innocence he has
r
destroyed, when it is too late to
make reparation. Instead of being
an object of pity, he will be held ia
/
detestation by the rest of mankind, as well as the woman whose infamy has occasioned all this misery.
Poor Lady Wentworth! my heart bleeds when I think of her Sufferings. To hang over the bed of a dying' Child, to So affectionate a Mother, was too Severe a trial for human nature to Support. That Being who causes Such Sufferings,
can best heal the wound.
1 had
I


127
I had but just brought my mind into Some little degree of tranquillity — this event has quite deranged
me again
I believe 1 am never designed
by Providence to enjoy a moment’s Serenity. Yet I cannot complain, when I see others, as undeserving So hard a fate, ' Suffer vv^ith myself
My Father, who is greatly affeefed, has written a very Severe letter to my Brother, commanding him to return instantly to this country, and not continue to disgrace himsclf and fa mily, by associating with the murderer of Lady Jersey;; name 1 do not think improperly applied, however harsh it m2iy found.
Poor Mr. Arnold, the clergyman whom you Saw once at the Grove, with his daughter, has been here to
G 4
iearm

12s

learn the dreadsul particulars, as the good man expressed himself, most
Severely afhidfed.
%
Poor Maria, iwho is possessed of great Sensibility, is inconsolable. We were all play mates together. I have prevailed on her Father to let her remain a Sew days with me.
Mr. Arnold is to meet the corpse at M -- -- -- -
-- -- tomorrow evening. 1 she
funeral is to be conducted as privately as possible. twenty-four of the villagers are to bear torches to light them to the church. They are not to stop at the Hall.
If my Spirits would allow me, I would, uninvited, attend the funeral.
I
I do not approve of the present cus itom of abandoning our relations, immediately on their decease, to she
care of Servants. This may be called

129
9
ed Sensibility, but I Should give it
just the opposite name. Not that
I mean to cast any blame on Lady
Wentworth. She s too excellent a
woman to deserve any. In her situation,
it would have been impossible
# ' •
to have paid the last duties to her daughter.
I greatly admire the following beautiful lines, which I think very
applicable to the present fubjeo: :
#
“On some fond breast the parting soul relies;
Some pious drops the closing eye requires : ev’n from the tomb the voice of nature cries; ev’n in our asties live their wonted fires.”
V
I will write again by the next post,
ft
and remain,
Yours,
LAURA DE GREY.
HO

FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
Clifford Place.
Believe my next will be dated from fitzroy street, as I am advised to go to London in order to divert my mind a little t which, I can affure
you, is much in want of Some relaxation.

Oh my friend! yesterday came little short, in point of wretched ness, of some of those you have Seen
me experience.
When I arose in
the morning, I was greatly affedfed, and pleased to See every creature who pasted my window, which looks to the highroad, drested in their best
a clothes,
'
*
  II
clothes, with Some mark of mourning, Such as a black gown, or elfe ribbon, to denote the melancholy
occasion,
although
their downcast
look gave better proof of their Sorrow, than could be exprefised by any outward Show.
About tvrclve o’clock, I Saw the poor men who were, destined to light their young mistress to her last home,,.
pass by, attended by the steward and Servants, from the hall On Seeing me and Maria at the window, they each applied their handkerchiefs to their eyes. No doubt the recollection of the happy days they had witnessed, and that we had Spent together, caused this emotion. From whatever fburce it Sprung, we mixed
our tears with theirs.. Maria entreated that I would, retire to one of
G 6
the
132

4» V
the back rooms. This I refused, having determined to devote the remainder of this day to the indulgence of grief. The Sound of the bell, that had tolled all day, at each stroke Seemed to remind us of dur Jemima.
About nine in the evening, the village and cottages around were pouring forth their inhabitants, not with that rude and tumultuous noise whith which the meaner class generally assemble, but with decency and order. Every little group were relating Some. good deed done by her
whom they now mourned.
The evening being remarkably fine, I had ordered the candles to be
left in an adjoining room, and Sat
. #
with my windows open, that I might, unobserved, weep over her
whom

133
whom I loved, with a Sisterly affection. The clock struck eleven, and the bell, from the stillness of the evening. Sounded with additional Solemnity..
About a quarter of a mile from this place, they had to pafs through the corner of a wood, where I first observed the melancholy procession,
t
by the glimmering of the light through the branches of the trees. They had been joined at the entrance, toward Harewood, by forty charity children, who are clothed and, educated at the expense of Lady Wentworth. This was unexpedled, but
was a
mark of grateful attention.
these children, with tapers in their hands, Sung before the procession.
I. was almost insensible as it approached. Maria dropped on her
knees.
134
knees, and we continued in that post ture until all was passed. The Sound of the hearse, which moved (lowly along, was most dreadful. We sol lowed the remains of our Jemima with our eyes, until out of sight, and then retired.
How many pleasing prospects had we anticipated in our childish days, walking in that very v/ocd through
which Lady jcrsey had just been carried.
After the funeral vas over, Mr. Arnold, according to promise, called on Maria. He said, he had never experienced So hard a talk as that he had just gone through; for, besides the respedt, and almost fatherly affection, which he Selt for Jemima, he had been greatly moved by the Sudden burst of grief which proceeded from, all pre
Sen t,
 ' I 35
Sent, when the coffin was consigned to the vault. It was Some moments besore he could proceed.
At M
-- --, a poor woman, who
brought three children in her hand, pressed forward when they were removing the coffin. She kissed it herself, .and made each of her children do so too. ** See here, Said She, is that blesssed Lady, that good angel,
who Saved you from perishing, who
/
Snatched your father from the grave, and gave him to a helpless family. Her soul is among the blessed, and needs not our prayers.”
This affected every one present, as the poor infants Seemed to feel the force of their mother’s Speech,
and clinging around her, hid their tears in her apron.
I this
ia

I this morning received a note from Mrs. Brown, begging my excuse for not feeing me, as she was obliged to Set off post to Yorkshire So early, that it was impostible to wait on me, according to her promise. Lady Wentworth was extremely ill, and Miss Wentworth wanted her astistance. Indeed I was rather glad stie did not come; the sight of her would but have added to my present uneasiness.
The following lines are so descriptive
of her we have lost, that yon will be pleased with them over
: for I doubt not but you must have read and admired them before.
again
The midnight clock has told; and, hark! the bell Of death beats slow! Heard ye the note profound? It pauses now; and now, with rising knell,
Flings to the hollow gale its sullen sound.
'“Yes,
i t
  i37
“Yes, Coventry is dead! Attend the strain. Daughters of Albion! ye that, light as air,
So oft have trip’d in her fantastic train,
%
With hearts as gay, and faces half as fair. •
“For stie was fair beyond your brightest bloorn, (This envy owns, stnce now her bloom is fled); Fair as the form that, wove in fancy’s loom,
Floats in light visions round the poet’s head.
<
“whene’er with soft serenity (he fmil’d,
Or caught the orient blush of quick fui’prife.
How sweetly mutable, how brightly wild,
The liquid lustre darted from her eyes I

“Each look, each motiort, wak’d a newborn grace. That o’er her form its transtent glory cast :
Some lovelier wonder soon ufurp’dthe place.
chas’d by a charm still lovelier than the last.
\
“That bell again 1 it tells us what fly is;
On what she was, no more the strain prolong t Luxuriant fancy, pause! an hour like this Demands the tribute of a serious song.”
i
The lines are no longer applicable, though equally beautiful.
I shall
138 THE   llfe^
I Shall hope to See you in town the ensuing winter; and that, in the interim, the Subject of our letters will not always be as melancholy as slate they have been
/
DE


LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER,
Audley calhc*
You have probably read in the
news papers
ere this letter has
reached you, an account of the death of Lady jersey, which has greatly stocked me. To Save myself the? pain of writing the particulars of the funeral, I inclose the account as I received it from Lady de Grey; who insorms me, as you will See, that She is preparing for a journey to London
whither I intend to repair also, for
\
Some little time, before I make you my
promised
■140
promised visit, in order to get a Sresh
« \
recruit of Spirits, to prepare me for Seeing the dutchess.
I believe you are not likely to See yoiir Brother very Soon. As a correspondent of mine informs me, he is at Paris, with Lady Harriet strange ways, whole chains he at present wears., I am Sorry to give you intelligence, as the object of his attention I hold, in the utmost abhorrence, thinking no one in existence worse than herself, except her Sister,
Lady susan.
Into what difficulties may the Marquis not be plunged by this connexion? The present situation of
Sir William J
IS' a
striking
proof, that once entered into the
paths of vice, the wretch still finks
deeper

141
deeper and deeper, until quite overwhelmed.
How will that man ever be able to face the world? But, what is still worse, how will he bear the stings his own conscience will repeatedly, give him? Will not the amiable qualities of the injured Jemima rise in dreadful contrast to the infamy of the woman whom he has preferred to her, when she shall leave him a prey to despair!
I am informed that his affairs are not in, the most promising state which leads me to think, his present dream of happiness will soon have an end. Lady Susan will not be found Sufficiently attached to stand the test of poverty.
You will see that I am in a very grave mood, by my writings but
how

142 fhe   liffi.
how can I be otherwise on Such a Subject?
I have many thanks to give you for your last Your city neighbours afforded me a very hearty laugh, as I
doubt not that they will to you, during your stay in the country. The
9
dutchess, whose turn is rather Satiri
i ^
cal, will delight in the cultivation of their acquaintance.
I (hall expect, with impatience, your description of the race ball. What a pity that the Marquis does not arrive time enough to dance with
miss Anderson?? might, perhaps, be honoured with her fair hand, and ten thousand guineas; for Mr. an derson having given the precedent, pounds will never be accepted with
any of that illustrious family in future
Tell
!


Tell the Duke, that I have not absolutely declared against matrimony. If he will find me a male creature, who is willing to give up his liberty, and hencesorward to have no will but mine, I don’t know but I may condescend to take him. He must
I
not be a fool: no 1 nor too wisc neither. I am very difficult; therefore, on Second thoughts, I had best chuse for myself.
I have no news to entertain you with : my Subjects of late have been melancholy: I hope London will furnish me with Something lively. Scandal, dear Scandal, is ever alive in the metropolis. To Speak truth, it
does not die in the country. It is a welcome guest everywhere; from the cottage to the gilded roof
If
1
144

IS you write Soon, I Shall be found at this place, which will oblige,
Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY.

I
45
CHARLES VERNON
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
Lausanne.
Promised to write fbon again, to insorm you is I had any hopes of jersey’s ever returning to reason.
On the day on which my last was Sent to the post, Lady susan went out alone. As Soon as I Saw this, I went into the drawing-room, where jersey was sitting, playing with a favourite lapdog of her ladyship’s. You are very happily employed.
Said I; if you are fond of nursing, I know where you will shortly be furnished with a more pleasing ob
VOL, II H ject
as
146
ject than what you are fondling at present. Very true, Vernon, Said he; So you, may, no doubt: but don’t you know the old ' proverb, “Love me, love my dog.” Ay, certainly do T, replied 1, and the proverb ought to hold good in the cafe in question. Ought! Said he, but don’t you know I never did 1 ought in my life. But come, let
us know what you mean. — So I will,
\
if the subject will not be displeasing. I guess what it is, replied Sir liam; provided it is not a very long story, you may proceed 5 but I have a devilish trick of yawning lately You are very indifferent, jerseyj I think, about what pastes in England. Do you mean to spend the remainder of your life in France; I Should fuppole So, or you would have
asked
Will

Some months ago
 . 14?
ashed after your friends in Berkshire, There is a young stranger expected there, whom I alluded to in the former part of my discourse, Of this you are not ignorant, as Lady Wentworth
wrote to you on the Subject
Wrote to me! Said he, * — never! What do you mean, Vernon? Speak out, I pray you. — ^ Do you not know that Lady jersey is far advanced in her pregnancy, and, at this moment, that her life is in the utmost danger? He started from his chair, and struck his forehead. — What a rascal am I, exclaimed he? Are you Speaking truth, Vernon? do not trifle with me. By heavens 1 am; the last news I heard from the Farm was brought by my Sister, just as 1 left home. Her Ladyship, (he Said, was dropping fast towards
H 2
the

148
the grave. You Seem touched, jer fey; is So, let us not lose a moment, but fly to England, and Save, is pos fible, this amiable woman.
I
He remained, without Speaking a word, his head resting upon his hand, leaning against the window shutter. At length he Said, did you not Say, Vernon, that Lady Wentworth wrote tome? Where is that letter? Nay, replied I, that I cannot Say : but you rnust have received it, certainly: but never mind that; come, deterrnine to return with me, and we will make excuses for not answering it, I warrant you. Yes, Vernon, we will Set out to rnorrow morning.
'He rang the bell for his valet, and desired him to get ready, as he was to leave lausanne the next morning. He walked up and down
^ the
  I
49
the room in great agitation. I did not interrupt him, as I perceived that his mind was greatly hurt.
Lady Susan came in very Soon,
Seemingly in as great agitation as himself. What is this I hear, Sir William, are you going for England i What new whim has got into your head at present. She cast a look of disdain at me, as much as to say, this is all your doings. I kept my eyes on Sir William, upon whom 4 considered that I had worked a miracle.
Yes, Lady Susan, said he, I must go to England for a little time. Have you received any letters directed for ine, since I requested you not to let me see any from England? Vernon tells me, that Lady Wentworth has written me one, wherein she informs me of the pregnancy of Lady jersey,
a 3
Here
150
Here Lady susan affedfed to burst into a fit of laughter. And are you Such a fool, jersey, Said she, as to believe that story? Why, you may be Sather to half the children in London, if you are So credulous.
V
Nay, Madam, Said I, 1 will pledge my honour for the truth of the story. — Yes, Sir, you are the friend of Lady Jersey, and, no doubt, wish her well, but you are not let into all her secrets, I Suppose. I have no, doubt but Sir William might be presented vyith an heir on his return, Observe me. Sir, I do not mean to
on Lady Jerfeychastity, (this she Said wdth a Sneer) but children have been purdiafed — I have heard of Such things.
Here she waited to see wshat effest
her discourfe had on Sir William,
%
who,

rene
\
THE   LITE. 151
who had listened very every word She uttered. Now I think on it, Said he, if this had been really as you represent, which I begin to doubt — excuse me, Charles, but Say, upon your honour that you Saw Lady jersey, and that you believe her to be pregnant. Upon my honour, I believe Lady jersey to be pregnant, but I have not Seen her
Since we left her at Hare wood to go to Brightpn. She was too ill to b
4
Seen when I last called at the Farm
I ^
with Lady de Grey, on her way from Truro Point to Clifford Place. But Laura Said, that She was far advanced in her pregnancy.
don’t you know, Said Lady susan, that women always assist each other at a pinch, or bow should we ever
tful
0

be able to cope
h4
ar
wretches?
daugbter’^s
152
wretches? I do remember having received a letter, just as we were quitting Paris, where Lady Wentworth mentioned her being with child; but the letter would have done well enough for a methodist Sermon. I remember the hair dreffer papered harriet’s hair with it. I knew it would have put you in the vapours to have read it. Why, the bare mention of it has made you stupid. My ponies are coming to the door; come and drive me out, and the air may recover your senses— — come along, Said she. He followed her without Speaking to me, who stood in astonishment at his infatuation.
^ They drove away, but not without first countermanding the orders given for his immediate departure for England,


land. Lady susan had the address to persuade the infatuated man to carry her to a place about ten miles distant, where She affected to be taken ill, in order to prevent his return; fearing that I should again get Such an ascendancy over his mind as to bring him to England.
I shall write again to morrow*
I am.
/
yoursy.
CHARLES VERNON,
154  .
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
A S I thought. So it has happened..
The Servant was Sent back with a note of excuse from Sir William, and ordered to bring Lady susan’s woman, as her Lady was taken extremely iih I then gave up all hopes of effecting my purpose, and determined to return to England directly,, for to reclaim Sir William was my motive for taking the jaunt to the Continent, though I did not say so, as I should have been mortified to have returned without its accomplishment. On the Second
day.

  155
day? aster their departure from home, I was walking at a little distance from the house when an express arrived for Sir William. The boy who brought it, said, he did not rightly know what was the matter,, but, if the gentleman had a wife, he believed that she was dead. I never was more shocked at anything than this intelligence, and. how to break it to Jer sey I did not know. You will think, after the specimen I had So recently of his feeling, I need not have been alarmed on his account. I attributed his former behaviour to that Circe
•S
who held him in her chains. I determined to go over myself with the packet as they were at an inn. Accordingly I did so, and sent up my name to Sir William, saying' ' I had urgent business to communicate.
H 6
He
1^6 THE  lifen
He was in a room with Lady susan,.
%
and begged that I would come up. I returned for answer that I must See Sir William alone, but would pay my respedts to Lady susan afterwards.
He came very reluctantly
Jersey,
Said I, I Sear this packet which came express from England, contains Some heavy news. He Seemed unable to
open It.
I asked him if I stiould
open it and read the contents. To this he agreed.
It was a letter from Lady Wentworth, announcing to him the birth of a Son, and at the Same time the death of both the child and its un happy mother, written in the most pathetic language,. He tore the letter out of my hand, read over and over its contents, then threw himself on the ground in an agony of grief,
wrung

  157
wrung his hands, beat his breast, tore his hair, Swore that he would destroy liimself, and Said that I ought to have dragged him to England from the wretch who had detained him by an artful story. It was impostible to offer consolation in a cafe like his; Lady Susan, notwithstanding her severe indisposition, on hearing the news which had been carried to her by the officious servants, came dowm to the room in which were Sir William and
myself.
Her face, at the news of
Lady jersey’s death, seemed lighted up with the glow of fatisfadfion. Sir William quitted the roond on her entrance. She desired that I would show her Lady wentworth’s letter. After reading it with great unconcern she returned it to me, saying, I don’t See why her Ladyship should write fosse

158
Severely to Sir William, Lady jersey is not the first woman who has died in childbed. What could he have done had he been in town? — What might have been done if Sir William had been in town, I cannot say; but, as things have turned out, it was rather unfortunate that he was not there. I can only say that the world has lost a most deserving woman. She turned, upon her heel without making any reply, and left the room in pursuit, I suppose, of Jersey, who had stint himself up in his chamber and would not admit any person.. About three hours after, I Sent up word to him that I was just going to Lausanne, if he had any commistion that I could execute.. To this he returned for answer, that he thanked me,, but that he had none at present; and he begged

  159
ged that I would excuse his feeing me before I went, for that at present he could not see any one, but should return to lausanne as soon as he had Sufficiently collected his mind.
It is now two days and I have heard nothing of him; if he does not re p> turn Soon I shall depart without feeing him, as I have a letter from my Father written in very severe terms against Jersey, and desiring me to return home immediately. I fuppose Sir William will not be for leaving Lausanne very soon; for I do not see, situated as he is at present, how he can go to England. I pity him extremely; he has no stability, but is led away by the opinion of those in whom he places confidence. His grief is at this moment excessive. It will not however last long; and
then,
\.
V
lo THE   LIST.
then, I Sear, that artful woman, who governs him, will have stronger hold of his mind than ever. I have swelled this packet to an uncommon size; but I know the subje£t is interesting, on which account I Shall make no apologies, but Subscribe myself,
Yours,
CHARLES VERNON.
  l
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
WILLIAM RAYMOND, esa.
Gibraltar.
HAVE taken the opportunity of a packet which fails this evening, to inform you of my safe arrival, in good health, at this place on Monday last, after a very pleasant palfage; and it has been rather a quick one I am informed.
I had not the best prospect on Setting out, but it may brighten up hereafter; be what it may, my gratitude will be equally alive towards you and
Mrs,,
i62

Mr
who have made me
what I am, and to whom I Shall hold myself accountable for my conduct to th'e last hour of my existence.
The garrison are making great preparations for the liege. They are indefatigable in their exertions. The Governor-general E - - - and Lieutenant Governor-general B - « d are on horseback, from sun rifing until fun setting, giving orders, which makes it impost! bie for any one to be idle wfithout being observed.
I have been here So Short a time that it is impost! ble for me to give you any account of the place with accuracy, therefore I Shall defer it till the next opportunity,. I stiall expect a line from you, my dear Sir, by the first mail. That I may be astured that you and Mrs,.
Ray
  163
t
Raymond, to whom I beg to be most affedfionately remembered, are in good health, is the sincere wifii of yours.
THEODORE NEVILLE.
* ^
264
THEODORE NEVILLE
T a
EDMUND LASCELLES
Gibraltar.
AM at length arrived at the rock of Gibraltar, after a voyage which turned out more agreeable than the first appearances proiniled;; what rendered it So was, that 1 had a brother officer on board, as foolishly in love as myself. This gave me the liberty to indulge myself in Speaking on a Subject on which my mind was continually engaged. Major gren ville is the gentleman to whom I al
Inde.
  l
, He Sell most violently in love with Lady Anne Westbury, whom he law at Truro Point during the time we staid there aster our dreadful, accident, I believe you are acquainted with her Ladyship, and can inform the Major whether he has any chance. He is most miserable at present, fearing that So fine a woman cannot long retain her heart in her own possession, there being, no doubt, So many candidates for the prize. This, I know, you will Say, is like my folly. Well, I am glad to have the Sandlion of a man of sense, of which character is the Major.
I shall alfb tremblingly wait the arrival of your letter, in which I shall expect you to give me an account of Lady de Grey j how she pastes her
time
1’66
 IME
; where she resides;; if she is, which I fuspect, Surrounded bj a crowd of admirers. I have been on the point of writing to her at different times; however, I have hitherto restrained myself, for which I shall ei
9
there give myself credit or blame, according to the tenor of your next letter, which I shall most anxiously expect. don’t fear to write, let what will .have happened since my depar
f
ture; I am used to disappointments, and always look for them in succession. I reproach myself, at the moment I am writing, for supposing that Laura will act unlike herself“
“pilgrim that journeys all day To visit some fardillant shrine“ “he bears but a relic away,
“Is happy, nor heard to repine.
« Thus
trim   l6f
9
Thus widely removed from the fair,
“Where my vows, my devotion, I owe ■ “Soft hope is the relic I bear,
^ And my solace wherever I go.’*
open and fear alternately take session of me, and reign Supreme in my breast, which at present resembles the ocean we have just crosted, and I believe the resemblance will last whilst I have existence. May she who causes these emotions in me, never herself express a wish that is not instantly gratified I
Perhaps it may never be my fate to revisit England, biit my name shall never return with ignominy; on this I am determined. When death stalks in dreadful majesty through the battle, he shall not find me shrink at
his approach i should it be my fate
* to
l6s
to be conquered by him, I will with
my latest breath pray for ’the happi
_ «
ness of her who alone could have rendered my life valuable,
Grenville has just entered my room, and desires I will again request that you will be particular with regard to his Sair mistress, Lady Anne, at whose feet he means to lay his laurels; of gaining them, he says he is certain, inspired by So much beauty.
In riiy next I will be more particular with regard to our situation;; may be able to give you an account of an engagement, as the Spaniards, as well as ourselves, are quite indefatigable in advancing the works and in various preparations, Tiie garrison is in good health and Spirits. I cannot Say exaduy the Same of myself as to both } however, my health
is.
>
  l
ib, upon the whole, better than when I last saw vou, and it will be in the power of a few lines from you to bring my Spirits to the Same tone.
yours,
THEODORE NEVILLE.
VOL, n.
J
lyo  .
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
\
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Thornley Abbey
Your last afforded me both plea
#
and pain, as it informed me of your health and at the same time of the death of Lady jersey, whole undeserved fate calls the tear of pity to my eyes whenever I think of it. The Duchess was greatly affected, as was my Father alfb; he says, that Sir William has rendered his name'contemptible beyond that of any other man existing. With regard to my Brother, he is greatly displeased at
* his
 17^
his conducsl: : he says, had he attached himself to any other female he should not have interfered; but that the present connexion he must insist on being immediately broken. He has Sent positive orders to Mr, Weston, who accompanies the Marquis, to return to England directly, and to alsure the Marquis of his dis pleasure should he bring Lady Harriet Strangewaya in h\s fuite. This I hope will prevent the mischief you are fb good as to warn us of: it may prevent Aniiandale from experiencing the misery of that wretch, ir Will
4
Ham jersey, who justly merits all the misfortunes into which he may hereafter fall. But, to dwell no longeron disagreeable Subjects, I shall give, you Some account of our progress towards
12 good

172
good neigbourhood between the an dersons and our family,
Considering the time, we have been
wonderfully successful. I believe 1
\
am fortunate enough to have captivated the heir of this illustrious fa mily, and may hope, in my time, to receive the compliments of the citizens, on being arrived at the dignity of Lady mayoress.
In my last, I mentioned that we were intending to make them a visit the next morning. About twelve o’clock, my Mother and Father, and myself, Set out to pay this visit, from which we expected no Small diversion. We were all of us drcsted as plain as quakers.
As our coach drove up the avenue at Egginton^hall, we observed a
6 footman
  i73
/
footman standing on the steps of the' hall door, from which he. ran into the house, to announce our approach. When the coach stopped, out came Mr. anderson and his Son, who handed us from the carriage. The young man escorted us into the house, while the Father almost Shook the hand of the Duke out of joint, in welcoming him to Egginton. On our entrance into the drawing-room, Mr. anderson presented us to his Lady, who, with her two daughters, one on each fide, stood at the door to receive us, and reechoed the words of their Mamma, that “they were proud of the honour of Seeing
us.

My Mother Said, she promised herself much pleasure in having So
I 3 agreeable
174  .
agreeable neighbours. Here we all sat down. No doubt, Said Mrs. anderson, it must be mighty dull for your Grace, when this here Mall was empty, as I have been told you was very great with Sir harry’s family when they lived here. The duchess replied, that she had never been at the Abbey since the death of Lady Horton.
The Duke was endeavouring to lead Mr. anderson into discourse on
He was obliged to confcss that he knew very little of that subject, but that he knew what a Sack of flour was worth with ever farmer in the county, I was Silent, taking a survey of the furniture. The room was hung with crimson damask, the curtains and
chairs
Agriculture
a

  175
chairs fringed with green and gold,, and the chimney-piece Set out like a china (hop., In front there was a row of Mandarin figures, all nodding
their heads, until my head was
giddy in looking at them
Above
these was a curious assortment of lion?, leopards, and rnonkeys, interspersed
with shells in abundance.
From these I turned to the family themselves, who were dressed for a fide box rather than a morning visit. Mrs. anderson wore a gold muslin, trimmed with poppy coloured Satin j at the edge of which was a very fine point lace; Her neck and face vied
with the trimming for preeminence of colour. Over the former was a.
handkerchief of joined blond, and.
/
ansher head she wore a.fmall capos
14

i; 6
s
very fine blond, intermixed with ribbon, to correspond with the trimming of the dress. She is uncommonly large. Indeed her size is almost absolutely necestary, as Ihe carries her whole family about her own person. Her husband and Son adorned her arms, which looked, from their rosy colour, as if fire had worn over them a pair of pink gloves. The pictures of the young ladies were hanging pendant from the chain of a gold watch, which was the size of a common desert plate, with the addition of half a dozen Seals, besides other trinkets.
miss Jane and miss Agnes were dressed exactly alike, to the very
placing of a pin, in blue Satin polo neses, trimmed with straw coloured
ribbons;
  177
ribbons; and they wore white Satin Sashes, tamboured with gold flowers. They are both very clumsy in their make, which, of all other dresses, a polonefe shows to the greatest disadvantage. Their caps were composed, like their mother’s, of a profusion of blond lace, with the addition of Some artificial flowers.
The Gentlemen were drested more in the present mode; only that Master dicky’s person was Set off with a white Satin waistcoat, bound with gold lace, for which article this family Seem to have a prodigious pastion. The Father wore a snuif
coloured coat, and a very large wig, which, during our stay, he was continually pushing about from one fide of his head to the other.
Is
I Suppose
lys
I fuppose that winter commences
in the city Some weeks before it reaches the west end of the town, as I should never think of wearing satins so soon as the first week in September.
My Father ashed Mr. Anderson, if his Son was a good shot. No, my Lord, said he, his Mother never would let him learn. No, certainly,, replied she; don’t we every day hear of accidents of guns going off of themselves, and killing poor young men. don’t talk so, Mother, laid Dicky, I am determined, now that
I am come into the country, to learn. don’t fear me i’ll take care not to shoot myself; T am not a tired of the world yet. Well, well, Dickj said his Father,. Fll go out with yon
and
 . 179
and See how you. come on.. myta there offered our. game keeper to attend on. him any day they would appoint. Mrs.. anderson insisted on their not fixing on a day, as she should be miserable. Why, there, Said the, ^ young man, you was frightened out; of your wits when 1 first got om horseback, and: now I can drive a pair of horses as well as our coach
j
man
can’t I, Jenny? This
gave
Miss an opportunity of speaking: she replied:, yes, Brother, -, to befure you can y but Mammals So timmer some. She was affeard to ride in the coach aerofs the river, t’other day
and made us get out, though it rained, and.walk over the foot bridge, though, we saw a one horsh shay pafs, over just before.
16


VV S

lo
We could hardly refrain from laughing. For my part, I durst not
Mother
verfation;
Mr
put a stop, by saying to my Father, your Grace has not Seen the improvements I have made since I purchased this place: will you and the Ladies like a walk? To this my Father agreed, and we descended into the garden, where Mr. Anderson had been at great trouble to destroy the taste of Sir Harry Horton, who had been at great expense to render the grounds about his house as complete as possible.
Surprised, after walking about an hundred yards, to find our ears Saluted by a peal of bells from a steeple that peeped out of a little wq@d..
The
We
  ll
The moment they began ringing, the whole Samily turned their eyes upon us, waiting, no doubt, for us to inquire from whence these wonders proceeded. e’ent that werry like Bow bells, my Lord Duke, Said Mr. anderson? It cost me a great deal of money to get them. There was an eminent drysalter in bishopfgate street bid against me; but I was determined to have them, to enliven the girls in the country. You was perfedly right, said my Father, young people want amusement, certainly j but I Should have thought Ibme musical instrument in the house would have been more agreeable to the Ladies. So it would, my Lord, Said' miss Agnes, but Papa bought them to please himself. He likes to walk
in
O'

in the wood and Smoke his pipe, whilst: they are ringing. Come, come, Agnes id her Father, you know you can'll play on the Spinnet, you used to cry and take on So, when your rnastep Game,., that your Mother Said you would grow melancholy. So I consented to discharge him The young Ladies desired I would give them my opinion whether or no they ought to wear powder, at the race ball at Derby.. Their Mother was very much.against it, they Said as their dresses were to be white, I decided on their wearing powder,, as I do not think, any one. appears dresr Sed without it.
miss Agnes asked me iffl had ever; Seen the Spirit, for they were insorm? ed: that the Abbey was haunted.
She.

  18^’
She declared, if (he lived in any Such a place, (he would never walk about the house without a footman,, who should carry a good large stick, which would frighten the ghost, she
was certain. Brother had seen something, which he believed to be an apparition, she Said, one evening last week. It had great saucer eyes, and ran so fast,, that it would have been impossible for any one to overtake it. I inquired where this ghost was seen. She said, it was just dark;
Dick, who was coming from the village, ventured to come through the wood for the nearest way, and it pasted, down the lane on that fide next the Abbey : he did not stay to see which way it went, but ran into the house, and was as pale as ashes
when

V
1^4
when be came into the parlour. She believed it was on Monday night.
I Said, I was very Sorry that we had put Mr. anderson into Such a fright; but that, on that evening, about the time she mentioned, my Mother and myself had pasted through the lane, in our way home, and that, ’the night being dark, the lamps of the carriage were lighted, which he had converted into Saucer eyes.
I am Sure you must, before this, be Sufficiently tired of ignorance and
Superstition.
We did not leave this delightful group, until we had appointed
^ f
a day to dine at the Abbey, in defiance of ghosts and goblins.
We had a good laugh at their expense
all the way home. The Duchess


l8
mm
h
chess Says, that an elegant family could not afford her half the diversion these people promise.
I Shall, from time to time, endeavour to make you join in the laugh, though at a distance.

Yours,
MADELINA MORTIMER.
\
2

LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY DE GREY.
Audicy Cafllco.
Promise myself great pleasure ii meeting your Ladyship, in town, intend to be your chaperon. It is necefisary for every young woman to have Some old antiquated piece of goods fastened to her elbow in public, to prevent the censorious people from talking,. Now I’U be your she dragon, though, as a married: woman, you are at liberty to dispense with my Service. This I do not Intend you. shall do, as it is not Safe
for
  1s7
for a young widow of twenty to be left too much to herself. Besides, I have Some little compafiion in my nature, and I shall not allow you to flirt with every handsome coxcomb who will pay court to you..
There is a very deserving young man, whose name I shall whisper in your ear, if ever I find you listening to the Small talk of the London petit maitres. I don’t fupposh you will ever be able to guess who I mean: I will give you until we meet to rack your brain,
I am writing all this nonsense in order to raise your Spirits, which were greatly depressed when I last heard from you. Indeed I don’t know how they could be otherwise.; I have shed many tears to the me
i88

mory of our charming friend. The lines you transcribed are beautifully
descriptive of her, and I thank you for them.
I pasted the Farm yesterday, for the first time since the death of its mistress. The windows were all
shut, 'and the court before the door, where chickens were feeding, presented a melancholy picture of the general disorder.
I expect my Brother, with a number of gentlemen, who come down in order to destroy the poor partridges.
Inhuman creatures!
/
Men, if they are not brutes by
nature, of which I entertain my
%
doubts, are So by education and cus
'... ..i. •
tom, being early initiated into a System
of oppression. The poor birds
first
  189
first feel the effeds of their tyranny, whose nests they plunder with the greatest joy, not giving a moment’s
thought or concern for the trouble
this will occasion to the parent bird,
whose labour for weeks, nay months,
I believe I might say, is in a moment
destroyed. The timid hare too is
hunted to death, for the amusement
%
man. Next comes our poor Sex,
of whom he makes his Sport; and,
though perhaps, (for which we, I
believe have only to thank the laws)
he does not kill us, it were as wxll,
in many instances, that he did, for
worse than death has often, through
his brutality, happened to many an
«
unprotected female.
I am led to write thus Seriousty by an adventure that I met with only
yesterday.
tgo

yesterday.
■as I was dresting to
receive Some company, one of the houfemaids was astisting my woman, I observed that stie had been weeping 5 and, as I take a concern in all that happens to every individual of
the family, I Said, Mary, has any
misfortune befallen you that has oc
• _
your weeping? No, my Lady, Said stie, nothing has happened to myself, only I was down at the George just now to send a letter to my Father, and I saw such a beautiful child in the kitchen with Mrs Benson. As I knew She never had a child, i’afked her who'that pretty Miss belonged to. Who does stie belong to, said stie? that Tm Sure I can’t tell, nor can stie herself tell! maybe it may be a question more than her
mother
  Ip!
mother can answen Oh, Said I theft you know her mother. Yes, I wish
I had never Seen either her, or her
mother
with Mam
ma, Said the Child, for She is very sick. The Child Spoke this with tears in her eyes. She Said this So mournfully, that I could not help crying to see it. Well, if your Mouther is sick. Said Mrs. Benson, it will be best you go and sit with her, for I have no Servants to wait on her:
I keeps no more cats than catch mice. miss did as She was bid and ran upstairs. These are fine taxes upon us
innkeepers; here they bring cattle from London, and leave them to die upon our hands. The woman could not go any farther, or John the coachman Should not have left
her
192

her here i’ll afture him. He promised to take her on, next time he comes down, if she is better. I doubt she won’t be removed until she goes to the churchyard, for she is quite a skeleton. However, if she dies, I slant bury her, that I can tell her, if she has not got money,
V
which I believe she has not; the parish must do it: 1 am Sure I pay
Sufficient taxes,
#
I could not help calling her a wretch. This encouraged Mary to go on with her story, which she did in the following words, as nearly as I can remember:
✓
“The poor Lady must be in reat grief. Said I j when did she come here.” - — ** Grief! aye, she’s in rief enough; she had better pluck
up
  i93
t
up her Spirits, I think, and write to her friends, it She has any, to fetch
her
away
She won’t tell me
where to direct to them or i’d Soon write. Is the Lady young or old. Said I— — She is young enough, and handsome enough, for that matter : but handsome is that handsome does, says I. The Lady rang a bell, but I Saw no one attempt, to answer it j So 1 offered to go up, as I wanted to see the Lady. To this Mrs. Ben son readily agreed, and I went up. She was lying on the bed : the child had hold of Her band : I Saw they
I Said,
had both been weeping, what did you please to ring for. Madam. She cast a look at me that would have melted any heart to have Seen. — 1 am Sorry to be So trouble vol. II K Some,
194  ,
some, indeed I am, but the Child will insist on my eating Something, for fear I Should die and leave her; therefore, to quiet her apprehensions, I would be glad of a bit of toasted bread, and a glass of very weak wine and water. that’s a good Mamma, said the little infant; now I know you will be well, in Spite of the cross woman, who Said you would die and leave me with her; I knew you would not be So cruel. She prested the Child to her breast, and I went down for what she wanted, poor creature. Would your Ladyship believe, that unfeeling Mrs. benson re
«
to give me the gill of wine, until the Lady Sent down money for it? I paid her out of my own pocket,
f
and Ihe even took money for the bit
6 of

19
■)
of bread. I carried it up, when the Lady alked me if I belonged to the house. I told her that I did not. She Said, she thought So, for I appeared to be possessed, she was pleased to say, of more humanity than she had hitherto met with. I told her I was Servant to Lord St. Auban, and lived at Audley Castle. She asked if his Lordship was now in the country. I Said, no, but that your Ladyship was, and that if she had any message to send, I would with pleasure carry
ft
it and bring an answer. She thanked me, but Said, that she was not in that situation in life to be known to people of quality; and that, as a stranger, she could not take the liberty of addresting your Ladyship; but that if I came that way, she
K 2 would
jg6
would be glad to See me again, for God only knew, she Said, when she should be able to pursue her journey. shan’t we go tomorrow. Said the Child? I wish we were out of this house, the woman frightens me So; and she Said she wished she had never Seen us. i’m Sure I hate to See her. Pray, Mamma, don’t send me down flairs any more to ash her for anything. Never mind her. Child, Said her mother, she will not hurt you, and if God pleases, we may go from hence in a few days. She heaved Such a sigh as she laid the last words, as Seemed to Say, that she hardly expelled to recover.
“I promised to call again to morrow,
with your ladyship’s leave, to see how the poor Lady is, for she
finds
  I 97
finds very little comfort where she
IS.

Here Mary ended her story. For her humanity, I gave her praise, and ordered her to return diretstly to the inn, with my compliments to the Lady: to Say, that if she would permit me, I would call myself in the morning, and that if, in the mean time, she wanted anything that the
Castle could afford, it should be immediately Sent. I gave Mary orders
to Speak to the unfeeling wretch who kept the house, and promise her payment, in my name, for whatever the Sick Lady wanted.
, You would have been delighted to have Seen with what joy poor Mary received the mest'age. I am Sure, my Cady, Said she, I shall fly through
Ks
the
198
the park. Your goodness will make
the poor Lady almost well; it will
raise her Spirits, which Seem to be
Sadly cast down at present.
I have dispatched Mary to See the
poor creature, and, if postible, I will
be of Service to her : for I doubt not
but she is reduced to her present con
••
by the perfidy of Some wretch of a man.
I will write again tomorrow, to give you the Sequel of the story, which interests me very much. In the mean time.
I am,
Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY.

199
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
S A M E.
Now lit down to perform my promise, although I cannot, as I promised, gratify all your curiosity.
As Soon as my visitors were gone, I rang for Mary, who instantly appeared. Well, Said I, have you Seen the Lady — how is stie? “Oh yes, my Lady, replied she, I thought the poor creature, when she received your ladyship’s mestage, would have died. She burst into tears, and was very nigh going into convulsion fits. As Soon as she was a little better, she
k4
Said
200
Said, your Lady is very good to inquire after me, who am unworthy of lier notice. Would it were in my power to accept of her offered kindness. But alas 1 let me not abuse her goodness. I am unfortunate, but cannot bring myself to act with deceit. Give my respects to your Lady, and say, that it would highly gratify me to receive a visit from her, were I in a Situation that would admit of it. As it is, I can only return my thanks for the honour which I dare not accept.
“I begged her to send another an swer, observing, that your Ladyship

was So good, that you would excuse anything, as you only meant to Serve her. Of that I am certain, Said she,
I
but I dare not appear before her
'Lady
  201
Ladyship. She wept most bitterly. The Child stood by her, and wiped the tears, as they rolled down, off
f
her Sace. Pray do. Mamma, ask the Lady to come and See you j she will not Speak cross as Mrs. benson does, will she, ma’amno, my dear, Said I, my Lady is all goodness, and would Serve your Mamma. Oh then bring her here, Sori want to See her.
“I tried all I could to persuade the
Lady to accept of your ladyship’s viiit, but she still perfisted in Saying she durst not; but desired me to as sure your Ladyship, how very Sensible she was of your kindness.
“When 1 lest her, I went to Mrs benson, Sori went to the Lady first,
thinking to rejoice her at the news I

brought.
Mr
k5
I
wnat
202
what do you think of the poor Lady now? Think of her! Said (he, why, just what I always thought of her, that stie is no better than She Should be. — You Seenn very fond of her, I think; I wish you would persuade your housekeeper to Speak to Lady Anne, may be she would take her to the castle: she is very good to the
Sick. For my part, I won’t let her stay here longer than tomorrow night, that I can asture her; for she has not got any money, I dare Say. She has none in her pocket, for my girl went into her room this morning, and the Child and she were asteep, and So she had a mind to See if Madam could pay her way; when behold you, she had not a penny in her pocket: but she had a Silver toothpick

A •

pick case, forsooth, which She will not need here, I believe; for I shan*t trouble her with too much meat, now I know She has no money to pay for it,
“If that is the cafe, said I, I am come in good time. I could not bear to hear her go on any longer so like a brute. Lady Anne has sent
me to say, that She Shall visit the Lady herself tomorrow, and that whatever your house affords, and She
will take, you are to giver her, and look to her Ladyship for payment.
“Well, said she, her Ladyship is very good, and God will reward her. Give my duty to her Ladyship, and tell her, the poor dear Lady shall have the best attendance I can give her; for certain it is very bad to be
k6
sick
204  ,
/
lick in a strange place. — Here, Jenny, calling to her maid, go you upstairs,
and See is the Gentlewoman wants
%
anything; tell her, that I have got one of the finest chickens fire ever saw, if She would like a little broth made of it: and ask her if Ihe would not chuse a fire in the room? I had forgot she had not one, for the nasty stagecoach quite put it out of my head. I dare Say she is come of good
parents, she is So polite, and miss is
* «.
quite like a lady, poor dear little creature: my heart has often ach’d
9
for her. It is very well file happened
to be taken sick here
in
Some
houses she would not have been taken Such good care of.”
Mary said, she ran on in praise of herself, until file left her to return to the Castle.
I give.

205
I give you the conversation thus particularly, to Show you what wretches there are in this world, and how easily they can turn their manner of acting as interest points.
My curiosity was greatly raised with regard to the stranger, who, in her present situation, certainly claimed attention, let her former conduct have been ever So reprehensible. I determined to go the next morning, notwithstanding what She Said against it; which 1 believed rather proceeded from modesty, than any dislike to my visit.
About ten o’clock, I put on my walking bonnet, and took a Servant to carry Such things as I knew She
could not get at the inn, and walked across the park to the George. I did
not
2o6
not chuse to take a carriage, as its approach might have alarmed her; and, to weak nerves, 1 might have appeared more formidable than friendly. The wretch who kept the house Saw me at some distance, and judging that I was coming to see the stranger.
She had placed herself ready with the
y
door in her hand, to receive rne and, no doubt, to have detained me until She had gone over her own
praises, as (he had done to Mar However, I prevented this by pasting her, and walking directly upstairs. I inquired which was the room in which the Lady was. On being fhev/n it, I entered without ceremony.
As I was drested quite plain, I intended to introduce myself in the cha
* rafter
It
  20/
radfer of my brother’s housekeeper.
f
The foot curtains of the bed were open, opposite the door, and presented to my view a form, as far as I could judge, the most beautiful that could be imagined, and a face that was Scarcely earthly. A little Cherub, as beautiful as its Mother, was playing at the foot of the bed, who ran to her at my approach. Her face was covered with blushes at first sight of me, but an instant paleness Succeeded, apd I thought she would have fainted. I
t
then blamed myself for entering So abruptly, and would have given the
I
World to have been again at the foot
of the stairs. I durst not call any
\
one to her astistance, as they would, by their awkward attention to me, have discovered who I really was,
which.
of
which, for a little, I wished to coni

ceal. As Soon as she was a little recovered, I Said, that I came from Audley casue, with my lady’s compliments, to know how she had rested, and if she was in want of any
thi
mg
She cast a look at me, as if
she thought she had Some recollec

fion of me, and after a minute’s pause, she replied, your ladyship’s goodness overpowers me. — Excuse me. Madam, but 1 have Seen you before. This greatly astonished me. H Said, well then, Since we are acquainted, don’t treat me as a stranger. You see I have come, not only uninvited, but in direct contradiction to your
t
wishes.
I then called the Child to me, in
order that she might recover her
embar
C
  20g
enibarrasfment. Well, my littl
dear, Said I, do you like this part of the country? No indeed, ma’am, I don't; for if we had not come here Mamma had not been ill; besides the woman of this house frightens me, she is So cross: but Mamma has promised that she won’t die and leave me here. — No, my angel, I am come to make your Mamma well, She shall Soon get better. You and I
will nurse her, slant we.?
Yes,.
replied the Child, you may help me, if you please, but 1 have nursed her
myself ever since we came here : I
\
never went to sleep last night for fear she would die.
Here her Mother interrupted her, by saying, Maria, don’t trouble her
Ladyship with your prattle. Indeed
1 know
210
t •
I know not how to acknowledge the honour done me as I ought; but I very sensibly Seel it, undeservlng as
I
am.
ing :
I alked her how long She had been ill. She Said, that She had been unwell for more than six months, but that she had never been confined to her bed before she reached this place,
which had greatly alarmed her, as She found her weakness daily incrcas
for though her life. She Said,
was useless to herself, yet the infant
who stood before her must be ex
/
to the utmost misery, when deprived of her attention. I bade her endeavour to calm her Spirits, and patiently wait the event: Providence was good, and therefore to place a reliance on that, both as to
herself
  II
herself and Child. For the latter, I promised to be answerable to her, that the utmost care should be taken of it, should she be unfortunate
enough to lose her Mother. She raised herself on her knees, as if by inspiration, for she was too weak to have attempted it five minutes before, and prayed that the God of mercy might shower down blessings on my head, and returned thanks for having been placed in a situation where her mind was relieved with regard to her infant. That now she should die in peace. The Child, on this, gave a voilent Scream, and flew to the bed, on which her Mother had Sunk, and clung round her neck, crying, Oh she is gone away! Speak to me. Speak to me, Mamma! I endeavoured
il
deavoured to take her away, but found it impofiible, she held So fast.
She
was appealed on
feeing
her
move, and I advised her to remain quiet, assuring her, that I would Send an apothecary who would, 1 hoped, restore her to health. I offered to take the Child home with me, but the infant would not hear of it, and her Mother thanked me, but Said, she did not disturb her, but rather Was a comfort to her.
I took my leave, promising to return in the evening, when, I suppose, I shall learn who she is, and what has brought her into So pitiable a
situation.
She is very young
I
could Scarcely think her two and « ^
twenty. How she knew me, is a
mystery yeti fori do not remember
ever having Seen her face before.
Have
/
  2 1
3
Have I not written you a long
V (
letter? I dare Say you are interrested,
as well as myself, in the fate of the stranger.
I \vill write by the next post, which will break up our correspondence for Some time, as you, as well as rny self, ' will be preparing for a.journey
to town. Adieu.
\
Yours,
r
ANNE WESTBURY.

14
MISS WENTWORTH
T O
LADY DE GREY,
V
Have taken up my pen, to inquire aster the health of my friend the first leisure moment I found; for my Mother was taken extremely ill directly on our arrival here, and for feme weeks her life was despaired of; but at length she is out of danger, and, I hope, in a fair way of recovery.
You know not how I regret our Separation, and the painful cause of our leaving Harewood. This place is equally beautiful, but I cannot
bring
\

IC
bring myself to look upon it asa home. Everything, and everybody is new to'mer but novelty has not charms to make me forget my old friends. Born and’educated at hare wood, every one seemed to be related to me, I took an interest in the fate and fortune of the meanest cottager. This I cannot bring myself to do here, where all are strangers.
We are situated in a very good neighbourhood, where every one is
studious to cultivate our acquaintance.
My
as yet
has precluded our receiving visits, or paying them. Indeed, when stie recovers, it is not her design to mix much in society: her spirits will not bear it; they have received a shock which they will never recover.
You
2i6
f
You will greatly oblige me, when you writci to me, if you will make inquiry after that wretched man. Sir William Jersey, and give us an account what he is now doing, and where he is. My Mother says, that she cannot forget that he once beo

longed to her family, however he has forfeited his right to be considered as a fon; yet she pities him, as he will one day feel severely for his past atrocious conduct toward a most amiable and blameless woman.
We would like to know every circumstance about him, and of this you may be able to give us information, your brother Charles being at Lausanne, when the express arrived with the melancholy news of our jemima’s death. Do not fear to
shock
  217
V
shock us with the recital of his behaviour on the occasson, for w’e cannot, expect him to adl whth. more propriety now that he is at liberty, than she did wshen under those powerful restraints, honour and justice.
I hope your Ladyship has recot^ered your health, and that Mr. Vernon and Emma continue theirs. Surely you do not intend to Spend the winter in the country.
Lady Wentworth desires me to say, that you ought to go to London, for though your present widowhood will preclude you from mixing in all the diversions of the place, yet the Scene before you will be lively.
We
shall
expect, from time to time, a letter, letting of know what is doing in
town, and how you like it 5 who are
VOL. II
Lr
your

2i8
your visitors, c. not that we mean to ask this by way of impertinent curiosity, but as friends who are deeply interested in everything that concerns you, and who will be highly
I ^
gratified in hearing you are well and
happy.'
♦
Yours,
a HORATIA WENTWORTH.
/

  210
EDMUND LASCELLES
T O

THEODORE NEVILLE.
Clarges Street.
OUR letter gave me inexpressible pleasure, as it informed me of your Safe arrival, and also of your being in perfect health. I undertake to put you in Spirits — no more whining, Neville, — I won’t allow of it. You are destined to be a very happy fellow : that I can foresee. Now for your mistress, which is the first con stderation with you, I know. She is just what you left her — a widow; nor do I hear of any one who has formed a design todispute your right
L 2
to
o
20
to her heart. She is coming to town next vvtek. This fn telligence will, I well know, raise your apprehensions. don’t you know that when a woman has once lost her heart, she will pass through a whole herd of beaus as
O
a flock of
V as if they were
ey
sheep? Now, I believe, you are in
of the heart of Lady de ti and I last night heard So charm ing a character of her, that I believe her to be poflefsed of that unfafiiion able virtue, constancy.
I am Sure you will be Sorry to hear that Lady jersey is dead. Her death was occasioned by the horrible and detestable condust of Sir William. Sle broke the heart of that amiable creature, to get possession of that of
Lady susan Strangeways, which is a mere piece of stint in comparison.

C
bne

  221
She is a mere coquette, and lives but for adoration; ‘for the first fellow who has a finer fortune, or pays her a better turned compliment, will Sh leave jersey, I am certain. This treatment he deserves, and that he will meet with it I have not a doubt.
The Marquis of Arrandale is flirting away at Paris with Lady Harriet
Strangeways, the
Jersey
flame. I once entertained thoughts of paying my addresses there, but am now truly thankful for my deliver*
ence.
I hear that jersey seriously designs to marry Lady susan. This would be a completion of all his follies; but I yet hope that this is not true.
t
You inquire of me if I know Lady Anne Westbury. I am not very
intimately
L
3
223
intimately acquainted with her Ladyship,

but very well vv^ith her char ter. I suppose I need not tell you ' that she is a widow.
She mar
Lord
Irr
o
ried to please her Father. Westbury was a man whom it impossible to describe; he never did either a good or bad action, but just ftiffered himsels to vegetate, and then died; which last ao, I dare Say, Lady Anne was not Sorry for. She was only married eight months, and has been a widow near two years; during which time, she has been as failed by innumerable Suitors, but has not favoured any with her hand. She was not in town at all daring the last winter, which caused a great deal of conjecture amongst the great world. Some supposed that she had
'met
\
  223
met with a disappointment of the
heart y others, that She had a rustic lover I neither of which I believe to be the real cause of her ladyship’s Seclufion; for, since you wtote to me on the Subjedf of Major grenville’s attachment, 1 have been very inquisitive about everything that concerns her, insomuch, that I am Set down by the tabbies as having designs upon her myself. She is extremely gay and Sprightly, but by no means a coquette; she is posteffed of an excellent understanding, and
therefore Scorns So despicable a character.
1 have now, I think, given you all the news I can muster, of our friends, and think it time to say little about myself.
When
224  .
When you lest England, I was in a very valetudinary state, from which I am now tolerably recovered, to the great joy of my excellent Mother; for, "faith, Theodore, I believe she is the only female who has a thought about me; but I can asture you, that I cannot Say the Same thing of her, for there is one whom I could prefer to all her Sex, provided she entertained the same Sentiment towards me, I am too proud to hazard a refusal. The next winter, therefore, must determine whether I
shall be So happy as to gain the mis trcss, of whom I aspire to the possession.
She is no mean beauty, I promise you, and is Daughter to the Duke of Mortimer. I don’t believe you
ever Saw Lady Madelina Mortimer.
If
  22^
r
0
If ever you did, I can hardly believe you can forget her.
Yo a see I am approaching by rapid strides towards your heroics, Neville! Love does perform miracles, I have been told.
If Lady Madelina is heart whole when (he returns to town, for She is now in Derbyshire with the family,
I shall not, like you, sigh to
• *•
the moon, and tease myself with fruitiest conjectures, but declare shy self, in form, her lover; provided she herself has no objection, and the Duke, whom I confider a Secondary object, approves. I may present you
to Lady lascelles on your return, and wshilst you are employed in diminishing his majesty’s Subjects, I shall use my best endeavours, towards replenishing the stock.
I wish
226
I wish this war were over, and you amongst us again. I should have made a confounded bad Soldier,
having no great relish for a thrust in the guts from a fellow who perhaps never fawme before, and who would rather be drinking a bottle than
fighting with me. If one enters
>
into a qiiarrel, there is Some ground for having recourse to the Sword,
our own honour is concerned. So you will say our honour is concerned as a Soldier. I agree with you that it is So, when once you have taken up arms, but do not approve of these
f
appeals to the Sword on every occasion. I think the law of Nature, as
r
well as the capricios of chivalry, ought Sometimes to be considered. But as I am writing to a profested
Soldier,
  227
Soldier, I but waste my time and paper both, both of which will be better employed in alturing you how truly lam
Your friend.
EDMUND LASCELLES.
\
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME
A

X
• t

'- V
tev v't >•.,

‘^•\ C*V/V -; V, w; [.^ s.. '*;. •« *'.'
-
'J' C
/*. "


I..
% V.. 1' ar - :.
'• A -, V. *'
V. .• U, '. V. j'i'a '. r.. •*. 'w.'
.' • ' # '* ». .*• A • • L ’ '
'•• *, /■, Ay ’AC. .V..
- '.. ^; C * **" * « • ✓'
, * ^ • it
A *«
►... • A.

-■■'■■ A ^ ’; AC '.A: Scv^' - ■^■

-'.' k ■•• ■


V— — -




. fx 'A' -- t f

'r,,
■'. *.<5 •.•



■- C cct ■■'s' ' V ' ■'■ ' f '' V 'aav, ais ■ A'.' ‘'
'C- -- -': - " 'V- --.; C', ■', '-■ /'.*•'■•.. •
. i
y..
’ * \ 1 >




> S ' •. • ^.
. * 1 A
*•* % *







: ' S ’'h
y

^ •



•/
. C'.


■t y _ 4. p
*. CL 1



'sk .>-
Sgir' - vv A; -: V • : -
At C '.-■■■■ Tai - ■.
AA •
r ^ •*
'\
. > i. I

> ^

■-. r' ' --.
■■-. ■ - • t' ■•.
VV A Av: V - i -, ' L
• •■■■•'•', "•-'' '. '.v'; /-'; '; ''r- --, - .A ‘A 'AA: : \/oy'; A V - '^■''. - ■ •'*• /-•' C. ./•; '•'■• • A ■ •'■ 'AA.... : ’ ■'

r
-

■ ' • f ' ■• •_ ' • t



* V * '
•’ ’'AF p
■ : ■ '/ • • •- •
I ■ /.
: TVA:
‘AAA ' V
-., •» *•


. V f. •■ V ' W.
f 'f -
r V .* t
i- -- :

‘ .">••

:; .•., • '.; t.
. •, -,.
■ ■■ S ■•- *'■
.' ' •
. ' ' - ■. • 4. - - •
'>
'•! •



•'. A • •..
.• T, ■,,, .-
. ••••■. •;
'" •., ■ '
. • • - ■■, Vt.. • '
...
’ 'i'” ' " i"'. ■' •' - -*■ '-' '■'•-* ■'. C ' •' - ■■■.•*■' «v. ’ 'r, - .■.■ ■'••;. - ‘ '.
- 'L
- -
. *■
• / •

^^ya'kr -': aalfsi
ILV '^ VLA
m^r o ..• V
: )f: 'c ."■•>• -•-/-•-
Ad
ST: .-: •.
■ ■ /
•»‘: .Ti' j ' ■ '.
'/fr‘! : •;.
^^vitty:
ittcvi
.N
.y.. ‘\ -,; ■. ...
sc -- - ..c:
:. - ■ CV
: : s i: 'tesns ^


.. ^. * V,




..





t T
/ *,





*% •






'■'■•• so
. >. „ V '* •










•*
•' f.. '
.4 S
"sj
“S’.'.
•V L -- C


•* j
^•- v

.-*.•>, >..

. V •' •
-
. k
S ^
'^



V •. •

. t., '.


f w ' * '’ * *
N,
v', >', • • ■' TV » ' ■••. '. • ' - ■ • ■■,, •.■'*♦• •' '
I
■'• ■> V -
.. * .- V
'-' ' f, ';., .'

. .*•>..
’ ••v, ■' • ' V ' -••• '■ ' -•■•' S ■■‘' 'l sv V •„.

• v' '. *. ^ ^ • •. • -
d • * ' * • **' •., ■ •' h' ♦d • • .* • - ... *,; : * ■. * X
* \ •... * ^ V *• '''. '■
'i - iv V' *' '' • • ■• * d • •••' • - •. • r '><*•' ■ '7..'

'vv*.*. • L '.'.'

r.;.


•.. W 1- •' '
-;,; -- IV h ■ '■ - SJV
•>»

, /.
., •■- ra" " ' '
» -'






A''
''
x


A' ■■’


■ ' -■ • • '. • '.- ' *.. ■$-: V “* •.••




: * ■'T.'
xi ■

.. - «
*• ** vx* '•.>, • *.

.D. •



''' “**'.

..• • C r •.
•. .'■ - ■ ■ ■ ' I ■
N


• V

'ri' - 'i


'-- •1^ --. 'T

■ -

■.

: *<: *

S;; Cd' d'' ''
, -’..' - N cc ‘'ddrrj^''i V ' * • .' I • / ^ “
■'^■'• ■d. fx i^ ia id' ' NR •. s - /, *. 'd ^ \ •
vn.' >cc ‘N .• ^ ‘ • '"d. ' • • e ’ ' ’ ' T^
yy: yri<riraa -. i I" y' •' ..., ■ * -• ‘ -'• VC - hsi

> ■; •
V »
•■.; Aj
••. ->: Ji
y j

ris ■ •'-, ■•
,
• s:
:

yt\
• I. I
•. 7‘


* 1.. * i
'* V " : ■•

vr, : X '-•:

. >■:. ^ ' •
, T '
••- 53^



. i ./
S y r'
* V V
'■ “- v.„
d. ^..


ii
■ ■
\ ri'. '.

C'' '' --
•'.; va


■ ram'
'■/ - -: : -
f ... f '



%'
V.. .*, * > '
• ** ’, *
. /

• •

-. *.. d .L V

> - • ••



•^ **. *• ^ * * ** *' ^ V •


•' d V. '; T V
. »>>
- ' • • ^ 4‘ •
'“*•
• * S r * *


•7*« - ^
•.. <. V ' - <

.. A


\ -,
t -
-■'/!• .A. •

y ' K‘, V, •.'.
.'d ' - —.
ON ✓* /


.* ^ - >

I
■ ■. f, .■,,.
♦ •• -. ■ • •

V

V
//
/
^2
^ J i '"S'
O / / 'jk
••'^/ f AVI
■’ r /


t.
'Di. ■' * -
•rt«rtta.
i ?»
— > V -:

•* t, ^ \.
»-"* •** '■'»• » ^ ^ ^ • #
•^• V • r.

vn .-

(-•' .W

€

Si
k * •
RARE BOOK COLLECTION
LIBRARY UNI VERS IT YY PENNSYLVANIA

7

s


'TAN- -- '■
■ ■ A r'e...■■'■'’ ■'" r -- ' -- .'^-',. •
rv v^ / • 'i ^ - '> “>■■ .-''"■■• -.. : b: : '-'■ ' ■>-. Siri,
FA's: s'^'=' v''h^''avaaslf^
■ 'i * -
T
V




r' ■ ■. ■ ■ ^ '. ■■ -
\ • J, V' '^'
'<.-.


Tt •
. » ■ ■ >
•j c"'




■ PA.'.' '■-.'.' '■' '. ■ '■ rifr^fy. rf'.y -; 'b' .: ' " ' CC- -- - ', ' ' "
'-. Av D'"' 'CT *'•'■ SK "s A ri ' "'A ''AI''
-■ ■ ■ ■ .'-^ ■ ■■ '■’. ■■ r‘f ''''.
- - ''. ■•• ■■•'■-■ - C c*‘ ■; ■ */'.'• ■■'s>vv's‘''c.v .'•.'A. ■w*v/ c' d.' VI -'
v...; - Lv•. ^tdy^dfy 'it c / .- - y^ k y y ■: ■>'■
i y- -- .- ■. '•■ ■ '/. -■* •' ■ '. '.'v'’ .* \v ’y -- ■ • r' V d.’' • f Vi.''
V,, ■; .■ C t A' -- ■
'' Nia"', 0 V ■. •'' ^ '' ■'•' - ■'a■ •vc ‘A. _. '••VSL ■vslriy'l •' ■'■•. ■y'''‘ td a‘' 'a: .'''’
A v.vi^sn -- : C -- -- fv -- ■ .'AA s ' vv,, .'ya; tv; w
A •*'• ■. t !U- -- ■ '■■•'- I r,, ■ ■' > ..X ■'- •- -< .'-•, '. ■ ... - - •>>.•. • -. o V •. r •.., \ \ ' • •...; ' -. • - '.
: ■ • •- • o ••>.■•, V: :
. .>? V V VI A; v^^ va av.' -: 'ni - r'
A:; - ^oa'c/a' •••^ --. y; vans n c a -- ",; i; nnv/v a SVL ^ls; syfk.l}t: dply y, ‘v ’ •.
‘.'ay: -- ... -.: ■ yr/a .■ z. .^ ^r yay “• ■. •; *: ••-.-■ ' .•; "a.' .' -•'■•" -. .'. • r : L • C ' / v. _. --, -* -- 'i: •■• -.. -.^-.;. • -- V; •;., > n' rt: -■ • : : -.• • • V •■ a ■

a*a^%aaaial aia ta A.:; ': ^' A LAT
’.•vvna.'. a;; a; •.-; .■, S •-. -.\-*.•> a.. ■ *; .•>., _-. "> •. .' • -- -.; V.;.
'if jv sovnfv' a'n' • ’ < •. V S, ..■ • ’b b’’■'. ’.'. ' ' y * h..;; ';.
-. i

t'^ca ya, -- ';; ". a; a.: ■•.: S’. a'..' -- '.••': S' '-' •
; -, • • ■
•'
■' i ^


•,. : t ■ ■' •
■ j: -, VA.: .:,, •'•;.; V,

j,
. i V - '-.: ■; ■
0. •.-•- ■'■?'XA ’.;.
t j ’ri ■ •.■. -•'' • ', - ‘ '. ‘ •' A • • _■ *. ■

'af.ri.. a r.a. TA 'rv: >>: van.

. f.

'' r^'dif’ r
"vn: ->^: ■.-
. • •' •' .-. >, •; s - ■ -\ --. 'rv.. ■«> ^




. -.
-. • - V ■*
.TE .* • ' *

. ^ I i ^


r * >! ‘ *


A ■ ^ • -




. • s
^ ^. *., • ** - t ^., /
-. -. - • • :, '. ■ *• *• ■ 'i * ‘ A. ■ -'. f
. • ■'. • '. V; ■■>.•••; .'. \ ' '.... • ■■■'

•. • Jt •-• '■ /
V --; NV'.. '... '■'
-- ' •• '■ ri. V L'•.V' ’ '


•■.■• X
'• a.. ''• ■ I;; ■ ' - e ■ - •-■. '.., ' v' '


'v.'v. .'s, - ■ * r n*; S'' ’’

■ .fa
'i
\




V
V •*
V *•*


■ ' ‘v' isv' ic a
., F V -.

.' -1.

. ■. xv'c. -. ■N NN' c -- -\:.. V scnn. ’ b
r nn;.;; - A - \ -- FA,, ^ d. / lf' dfla:,
- ■■ C te b. * .DC'.D •-.'■■■ ‘‘ n ' 'ac
•■ - r.c "• ■ ''.v.... '.•••; •«?.>•>•• • - '
V


. 4- ' • ■• ■

^.r>r

y .ata'^
■ ' ■ •
^ J
f.
V V X ^ .)^;
A- -- ■ •' .• --.. *
j: Vv s^ --.. J • c: : ■
"r.; Cn.;
.'>- •• ir V - ■ • -' -- > • •-:
LC. V v... ... ' ' -■ ^ ■ • ' '•

•. • .i.
I',

y -


AC - ■■fiv N 0 dyvy ' v'la: isy afs'" - '' ih 'ii ^
S’"/ --, •' cbvvccc ' r S'. K. \ A' d'. \ •
SAN -, V; •> v

.* *,
’ -' C'.’S' '■• ' 'F - ■‘■.I.








N; C -- v.v S ‘
r "▼*-

.* * * <•

* ..A •
If * ✓ -
. V ^ -*
• *■ :

^ v


r
■. •. - •.
. -'.■ 'r' ' •
S'• wv: : .'■ Nv v *•' '
'• ' C '- ■ V.
-. ‘ * • *: '. • -1 i * ^ "v'l* ■ / VC’' ( '■■'.'■’■■ la vrii


-. •»*. 4, *


''A VW.

at ^

ln' n v X': •':. :; • •: ' •-
V N •- : ai^aam


•; 5 “^- *'*-; 7?

iv ■-.

.■ *'


C N
- rc.■'t'n'. v .S.'s ■/ ■■■._. '
V C ‘ s. •. •• -- .TIS Nv v. v.,
Vf *' ■' ■'■ j ^ ' ''
-■ S. CC -- X'C':; ten ^'tac.te, .-: -
.; -: i Vs \ aadria
‘ VA is''^cv: -, vs: vvv V Vv:; Ss' SO'.
•. ^
■' ■
'/.. e ■d.' ' ‘ a'' V ■ ■'.o'.? ’.V •>;
: svslv;; - V -; s
'-•. ' ••; 'r v.vt.. •.tv’
S'., .S: ' CV,... V
ic -• V •, ■-■• ■ '. * S‘, ‘ - u * ^
. ••. ' - •»"-. r, » • • •..
Sic •<•
>'s ss V A
Aff'l -
C a'vffi f' ■'• lv ri f: ’ax' irvis
;. X -- c r.sc^ - C... ... ■ '. •

* •'■ •'•■• ■.•**!• ' • * V' ' ' ••.

.^ •«...


< •. '•*
*■• ' '1 '
■' ■■■■ h ■.-■ viy: --.. ■> ^.. ■ s
■■ :,. ccs' -- " C ..: : : .'
-- VAT ^1
s v .'^ ss: C v: vvt,; s' ■'•■' si
- ' S • ’ / « •. •, V * Ol*
•. .-•• ..c c C ^..
'\' • - • \ K ^ ^ ^ ^ ^,.. ■•• i,
'is •■■."•'-'■ • • •■ •; ■
• > :., ri.' -.' -- vo
: na'/cv'; '■' ■ n c s'.r' l'v fmst

.V •


- •. s: i: - ‘VS -: '■ V •
: »• • ' • r •




. *'*‘> >*,
/ *' N
^^^xjshwfio^rv.*''*>r.
S..
*'\ .<
■ ■ f

/


i
ft
*■
■ i

V’
'■■.fr*r‘
H £

LAB Y R IN T H
0 f
L
F
V O L HI.

«>
y.ai'
§
X
^
ar
V

» * < * \
• :
/

f 1
y
■>\
’ ’.*!• <-'•
■' '
A.
■ L ' 'iv
j: t'. : •:
JS
.1
% '

m * »

'\ ♦:
\
J
’• * V

» • 0' -
t i' S’
9 •
• i
va'
’.r' ■
.>r’i I
THE

tv
|irct .r>
* ♦ *+
r — -.
ri'‘^
1*^ • C
LABYRINTHS
T
F
E.
U '•'• ■-
A
NOVEL.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
EXCESSIVE SENSIBILITY,
axnd FATAL FOLLIES.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
-, V O L
lohn»n
III
•johnston.
LONDON;
PRINTED FOR G. G, J. AND J. ROBINSON,
PATERNOSTER-ROW, ' i79i.



'■9'
Tvr -- »

'• .: - V ■ %
■' 'j. /
\.



\.
X
■■ *



: -■ A a
■C’^<V; t: : r... yc j^. s,
• : *•; ' ■'

1 • .tt"" ’: V. -.

’ ■ • i.. ■><. ^ : ^ ‘ *•

C '•-

, \
f
> #
'.T...
.* ■ ■ -
. /
♦.■; •*
%
--

. •.. - 4




AXE,
A., ~-
• v' ' ^ •
‘H' •*■
r'.'. •■.., '.. V « • -'
. ■ •-: -

J'. -'
A
V r
'•«.
-- C; •; ♦* •

>, *•' •■ .•i.z.' •
VN' '
•■ >
A AD.
> •• T. >"•
h %••
-
.. 4v ' •
hd ■
N L -


A
- ts
t A; V ^ vic i. •
.tt
C - d.
.r
#..
- »
V, '•, '■••-


- A.

1i'
• T.
'*?.
• ‘ ' ' ‘i v
■ -<-*<** ■* -- v?h
/ <■
^■ -- >.»■■ fa i ‘^
— V ^ *
>- -.. ■-':
if" -"
\
. I

V
: < '’^- K -- *'
-
>
r

4
I
Jfr ^ ■
-.. »
i.
«
? t



'' • rs
O V
*.. - *
i: /. _ •
V
t '(- 'C
■ ' ■
*, :
rt'
. V S'

I o •
.•;., c _ :... \

si?^±^h: ' •
V 'r'. -'. ^,



l'c
v

^.
•.. ' ♦ 'IL ^ ^ -
- X
V
r.
■' ►.'

■/ ■ - V
A
■i
4 «


i'j

L
'F
jt

. r ••
-- V
\ ^ t
T •".

t; C ■- co V.. ■/• '■-' •'•*■ ■• '. r' ■
j^> s -' 'V .■•.

»-
V
i
• i'. Jew • ' ____ wxrfi* •
4 : • yv
•^i..

rt..
Axe
t C C r.. '
*■


fai^: : r
- ■•* ..L ■
/ ' ^

d,
•, -'
7^; .- ^
THE
 .
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
>•
y
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
7
'. Thornley Abbey.
We are just arrived at home after the difiipation of a race week at Derby. All the etiquette of precedence, on those important occasions have been most: rigorously observed, to the no Small mortification of ou’^ city friends,.
VOL. III B I have
2
I have to thank you for two letters I Sound on my return, and to entreat they may be followed by a third, as Soon as you can make it convenient. I am much interested in the fate of
the Stranger, whose recovery I hope to hear is no longer doubtful. How fortunate vas Ihe to be placed So near you, whose heart and purse are ever open to the unhappy. The poor infant! — I Shed tears over her artless
*
sorrow;; execrated the merciless wretch, who could treat a fellow-creature in distress so cruelly. Should the Lady not recover, we will provide for the Child arhongst us.
Your friend, Lady de Grey, is, I hear, arrived safe in town, and looks divinely: — So said a gentleman whom I met at Derby.
I Slidl
  3
I Shall give you an account how we Spent the week, as well as my memory will allow.
aster dinner, on Monday, we Set out for Derby, and arrived there in about two hours, after a very pleasant ride. It grew dark before we reached the town. vv^e were greatly alarmed by anoife of different voices hallooing from a carriage, which passed us very rapidly. My Mother called one of the servants, to know whether any accident had happened. He answered, that it was only Mr. anderfon’s carriage that passed, and that they called out to us. I am certain the voices of the whole family must have been joined, to make
such a roar as assailed our ears.
/
When we arrived at our lodgings,
B 2 judge
4

our surorise, to find Mr.
derson’s coach at the door. This did not last long, for Mr. anderson came up to the carriage, and Said, “You
See, my Lord Duke, how werry cleverly I contrived it. You did not expect we should be Such near neighbours. My girls are quite delighted. I never told them a word of it, till we came to the town end.”
My Father could not conceive what he meant, as he had engaged the whole house, and yet their trunks were carrying into it. My Father applied to the man of whom he had taken the house, to know what was the reasoh that it was let to any other person. He answered, that this was not the case; but that there was a house at the bottom of the yard,
which

5
which Mr. anderson had taken, and that, as we were not arrived, they had carried their luggage through our house. This relieved us from our
embarrassment, and we alighted. I went upstairs to deliver Some jewels
V
of my mother’s to her woman, who had been at Derby the day before, to See that the house was well aired, c. She Said, was not your Lady ship Surprised to find Mr. anderson’s family at the door? Yes, replied I, how came this to happen, for 1 do not yet rightly understand it? Why, replied Morton, Mr. anderson came one day last week to Derby, in order to Secure lodgings; and, after feeing all that were vacant, and disapproving of all, he came to this house, which he was informed was engaged
B 3 for
/
6

for the Duke. Now, I am right, Said he, I thought I should find it out at lash Pray, has your next door neighbour a house to let? Mr. Davis informed him, that there was neither a house nor lodging in the street vacant, but that there was a little house at the bottom of his yard, if that would Serve the family. This Mr. anderson Saw, and approved of, as his Servants could lodge at an inn: for, he Said, he had determined to lodge near the Duke, as the fiimilies vere So fond of each other, and, he did not doubt, would be related before the next races. — So you See I am provided for.
On Tuesday morning, Mrs. an derfon Sent inquiries after our healths, and to lay, that she would pay us an
half the
 .
7
bals hour’s visit, if we were unengaged. We readily accepted the offer, for on the first race morning there was no public breaksast, and we did not know how to kill the time, until we went to the course.
The house they occupied was very Small, and the windows were So placed, that it appeared like a lantern. It was impoliible for them to stir without our Seeing them. The whole family was in motion. The three ladies all dressed in one room, and the opposite one was occupied by the gentlemen.
As Soon as they were dressed, they all came in a body to pay their compliments. Mrs. anderson Said, that (he was vast glad to be
lodged So near us, as She hoped to
B 4
live
8

live in a Samily way, as friends. Ay,
_ »
my Lord, Said Mr. anderson, we can entertain a friend or two, though we have a little house. I have laid in a good stock of provisions: : Grace would be surprised to See my larder. Tis full of the best, and at the Service of my friends.
My Mother could not refrain from
laughing, for he Spoke of his larder with Such glee, that one would have
thought that he had come to Derby merely for the purpose of eating and drinking.
Oh fie, Papa, Said Miss Agnes, don’t entertain the duchess in that manner. And why not, replied he? i’m Sure I brought as fine a buck to Derby as e’er a man in the country, and his Grace Shall be a judge; for
I pre

9

I presented it to the stewards, and we Shall taste it tomorrow.. your Grace sits near me at table, i’ll engage to give you Such Burgundy, you can’t get at this here place, for
I have brought my own wine.
My Father answered with a bow.
y

and I began to inquire of the ladies,
how they had Settled the point as to their head drestes, which was quite undecided at our last meeting. Mrs. anderson told me, that my opinion
*• V
was always decisive, and that, therefore, powder had beensjdetermined upon.
j
Master Dicky Said, that he wished
he had been a female, in order to
/
have the privilege of consulting me as to dress. Oh, replied his Father, Dick, you have a good enough taste
b5
of
10

of your own. Every one Said that you was the nlost genteelest dressed at the Lady mayoress’s last Easter ball. How does your Grace think he did it.? Why, on the queen’s birthday, he Sent a man to the door of a certain great personage, to inquire for his
Gentleman, and Said, that there was
«
a person who admired his highness’s clothes So much, that five guineas were at his Service, only for a direction to his taylor; which was agreed to be given immediately. The five guineas was given in exchange, and at last Dick had like to have been taken in, for the taylor lived at Paris, But I indulged the rogue: a fine Suiii it cost me.
Well, Said his Mother, I am sure he looked just like a person of quality
when

I I
when he was dressed: : — not he
%
taken for the Son of the Spanish am baltador? My Mother Said, she
thought there was an air of falliion ran through the family; with which compliment they were So delighted, that they took their leave, in order to contemplate their own con Sequence.
I intended to have given you an account of our week’s diversion in this letter, but I find that quite im poliible, as I am but just got through the occurrences of the first morning. I will, tomorrow, resume the pen.
I beg you not to forget to write to me, as I am anxious to hear the .stranger’s story.

Yours,
MADELINA MORTIMEF.
12
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
Y
« •
OU See how punctual to my word
The breakfast is but just
am.
I
over, and I have refused to ride with
#
my Mother, in order to finish my promised journal.,
At the proper time, we Set out to the course, which we had not been more than once round, before the andersons appeared, in all the splendour
of a new landau. The head
0
was thrown back, in order to display the beauty of the ladies, Mrs. An
6 derfon
/
  I 3
derson entirely filled one fide, and
looked like the Sull moon.
The
Servants were all in new liveries. The postilions jackets were the most ridiculous things you ever Saw. The body was green, striped down the Seams with yellow lace, and the sleeves were yellow entirely, with the addition of a cuff of a mixture of these colours. They had the effect for. which they were designed, which was, to attract attention. No one pasted without inquiring who they
When they came opposite the stand, they were Surrounded by the country people, to our no Small diversion
%
Mother ordered our Servants to draw up directly behind them,
that we might observe what was Said V ** by
were.
/
14
\
, by the people as they pasfed. Some Said they wereoutlandish folk; others, that it was a man that made a great
O
fortune by conjuring at London, one Katterfelto.
We had Some compassion on them, and ordered the carriage to draw up
close to their’s; for my Father
%
thought that they might be insulted by the mob, as Mrs. anderson was giving herself Some city airs, and ordering her Servants to keep off the vulgar wretches; which might not
have been relished by the honest
/
rustics, who had Surrounded them out of mere curiosity, and which
their own outre figures had occasioned.
Mrs. anderson Said, if she had known as how people could not be i have
V .... C A..
 .
^5
have themselvcs at a race, she would not have come to Derby. She
thought they might have been more polite to strangers than to Sneer and laugh at them, and cut their unmannerly jokes to their faces.
We reconciled her to her situation by Saying, it was imputable to their
ignorance; that their appearance was
So Superb, that they had been Surprised into ill manners. My Father Said, that he never took any other than an old carriage to Such diversions, there being very little respect to persons paid, as liquor was a
grand leveller of distinctions.
After we left them, they ordered the head of the carriage to be put up, and we observed them making violent complaints, when joined by
the

16
the Father and Son, who were on
horse back.
\
In the evening, at the ball, they were all over dreffed, and Seemed hardly able to move. There was gauze upon blond, and blond upon gauze. Master Dicky looked like the figure of the monkey who had Seen the world, in gay’s Fables. I really pitied them, for I need not tell you what a country race ball consists of.
They were the conversation of every one present; and, as all eyes were on them, unless vanity came to their assistance, they must have had a very unpleasant evening.
They declined dancing minuets the first night; but the Second outdid any description that I am capable
THE   y
pable of. I question whether bun bury himsels is equal to the talk. It happened, very fortunately for them, that their partners were equally auk ward with themselves. The laugh, therefore, that was impossible to be restrained, was imputed to the gentlemen dancers, by Mr. and Mrs. an derson, whose anger had been excited by their daughters having not been seleded as partners for some of the young men of fashion present; and it was nearly the last minuet before Miss anderson was taken out by the booby fon of an esquire. Mamma Said, her daughter had danced with nobility before she came to Derby; for Lord kilcoobery’s eldest Son danced with her at Lady mayoress’s
route.
I had
i8
 .
I had thought it possible to give you a week’s account of our proceedings, which I now find impossible: However, Suffice it for the present, that, before I returned, I had So far completed my conquest, that Mr. anderson made proposals to the Duke; which, in point of fortune.
we r

very advantageous. My
gave for arifwer, that he valued my peace too highly to interfere, until my partiality rendered it necestary t that he did not doubt but the merit of Mr. anderson would not be unattended to on my part; and that be Should be happy if it produced, ia my breast, the desired effect.
My Father well knew it was im postible for me to think of a union with this lump of stupidity, or he
would
  ig
would not, I am convinced, have returned So Savourable an answer.
I wish I could dissemble, that is to Say, that I had enough of the coquette in ray dispofition, to tease the Duke for his joke, and make him believe that I am really enamoured of this city Swain. I well know his pride would revolt at an union with this ridiculous family, only he wishes to amuse my Mother with them, in order to render her stay in the country tolerable.
The creature had the assurance to ash me to dance with him, the last night of the ball at Derby. He was continually at my elbow. The last morning, at the public breakfast, he was So officious to hand me a cup of tea, that he Spilled the whole into the
lap
20

lap of the Dowager Lady M — —, who did not Spare Some Severe sar casms on the occasion.
The whole family left the room, and the town also, in a huff, about half an hour after; and, I dare say, will never attend any public meeting there again.
In short it was determined amofigst most of the best families, who met at the race, to show them a marked
indifference, in order to drivq them
» *
from the county, as they did not like any upstart to get footing amongst them. My Father greatly disapproved of this proceeding, as Mr.
A
anderson, he Said, was a good inoffensive man : and that, as a neighbour, however he might laugh in
private at his ignorance, he would,
by
(,

  2l
by no means, join in showing him any marked incivility. Indeed, considering that our families are to be uniteti, I cannot but think him in the right.
I Set out with an intention to int

form you how 1 Spent my time, and both my last letters have beeen taken up with the history of other people.
I shall now content myself with Saying, that I Spent a very agreeable week, have got a new lover besides
p
Dicky, that the duchess of D -- -- --
was much with us, and that, of course, our parties were pleasant.
There is a certain Something about this lovely woman, that diffuses joy and festivity whenever, and wherever she appears. She is never Seen to So great advantage, as when encircled
by
re
22
by her own family. those domestics
consider themselvs the happiest
who are nearest her person. I only
wish to be like her Grace: I mean to
make her my model of imitation.
I shall direct my next to Grosvenor
Square. I am waiting with impatience
for the arrival of the post.
Adieu, ma cheer amie,
i.
MADELINA MORTIMER.
9
?;
, •• ^
.
/

23
LADY DE GREY
T O
JAMES VERNON, Esq
DEAR SIR,
Fitzroy Street. "^
, Could not omit giving you a line, just to Say, that I am arrived Safe in town, as I know your anxiety concerning my health, which, I think, has been rather benefited by the journey. This'i much wish that you could have been prevailed on to take along with me. It was six yesterday evening before I reached Fitzroy
Street, which is in a situation I
\
greatly
24
greatly admire, being at once Spacious,
and open at one end to the air from
the country; to which I Shall always
be partial. I am certain it would be
impofiible for me to exist in Some
streets in London. My house is
large, and furnished in a most elegant
style.

1 could not help giving a sigh to
/
j
«
though I could not give my affections,
my esteem and gratitude will
for ever be due.
I hope I shall be pardoned by you,
Sir, when 1 Say, that I cannot help.
wishing myself divested of a title
that only Serves to remind me of the
misery it has cost me in its attainment.
Do not suppose that I mean
this wish as any reflection on you,
my
I
X
  25
m
niv much revered Parent, whose only aim was to ensure my future bap
*
piness. That Power who controls us all, decreed it otherwise, and I Submit with patience.
Pray tell Emma, that I intend to
\
write to her by the next post, and
#
give her all the information possible about Sir William Jersey.
Poor Jemima! what a fate was thine? If ever happiness could, from appearances, have been pronounced certain, it was in her cafe. Yet what a reverse' has little more than four years presented i
I was extremely glad to find, by Miss wentworth’s letter, that her Mother was better : 1 hardly expected that she would ever recover. We may yet have her Ladyship for a

VOL. Ill,
C
neigh
26
neighbour, after her grief is a little abated. I know she fondly loved Lady Jersey, who well deserved her
tenderness, and repaid it with the stridlefi: duty.
For the wretch who has wantonly been the cause of their fufferihgs, I cannot feel the flightest ray of pity; and only wish, that the pangs he has caused a guiltlcfs wife and an amiable parent to feel, may return to his own breast with added poignancy.
Charles is just gone to Portman Square, to make the necestary inquiries, and to call on some friends j whilst I give orders to some trades people 5 as you know. Sir, I want fashioning a little for a London life.
In

27
In every situation, I am, my dear Father,
Your affectionate Daughter,
LAURA DE GREY,
S.
2

CHARLES VERNON
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
/
Fitzroy Street.
Called this morning, just to Say, how do ye, on my arrival in the metropolis, and find you Scampering away to Derby races. What you can be doing there, I am puzzled to find out. As to horse races, 1 know you have an utter aversion to them, and every Species of gaming you equally detest. My curiosity is truly feminine on this occasion— — pray have pity.
I had half an hundred questions to have asked cf you. Brought you an
invitation
  2g
invitation from a Sair Lady, who is a widow, and, consequently, quite in the present tonne To Speak plain: I have accompanied Lady de Grey to town; who, by the by, I dare say, had rather have my company than that of Sir James, had he been living. ■
I long to ask her, is she remembers there is Such a being as Neville in existence? I would not have he? inconstant, as I know that he is deserving of her; and, as Semales are rated at present, (although my own Sister) I must do her the justice to Say, that she holds a pretty high place in the Scale.
I have been this morning to port* man Square, to inquire aster jersey, and find that he is one amongst the
C 3
many
30
many strangers at home, for they have not heard a single word from
j
But
the housekeeper says, that the steward in the country had occafiori to write to him, and to receive answcrs pretty often; that he has raised him all the cash that he could, and that Al is not sufficient. She added further, what shocks me extremely, that Sir William is actually going to marry Lady Susan. This v/ili complete his follies and his ruin.
I wish you would write, and, if postible, persuade him to return to England. We might, if we could not reason, at least laugh him out of it.
Pray, have you heard from Neville since his arrival at Gibraltar t I
would
  3!
would call at Mr. raymond’s, but I am really, though not accountable for, yet ashamed of my father’s manner of treating Theodore; and have a degree of shynefs that will not let me encounter any one that
has the least cause of offence.
♦
I expect an immediate answer, saying when I am to shake you by the hand.
Yours,
CHARLES VERNON
9
32
LADY DE GREY
T O
L
1
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
LI
Fitzroy Street.
MY DEAR. LADY ANNE,
I Expect you to perform your promise of attendance on me, theresore I Summon you to Fitzroy Street immediately.
I did not arrive until late last night, and had no idea that you had the start of me, until Charles told me, that in pasting Lord St. auban’s door, in grosyenor Square, he Saw your footman, which led him to inquire how Soon you was expected. He was most agreeably surprised to
hear
 3.3
hear that you had been there two. days. He hastened home to give me the agreeable intelligence, not being in a dress fit to encounter the eye of a fine lady (his own words.)
Do you know that, I believe, I have found out a Secret with which even my Brother, with whom it originates, is hardlyacquainted; — a certain tendrejfs for a certain friend of mine. I hope I am right, and that charles’s
affection may not pass the ordeal that his sister’s has done»
Yours,
LAURA DE GREY.
24


THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
WILLIAM RAYMOND, esg.
Algiers.
I ^
E not alarmed, my earliest and best Friend and Father, at the place from whence I date this letter. Though a captive, I Suffer none of those miseries which are Sometimes endured, but oftener, I believe, fabled, by the Christians that fall into the hands of the Moors on the coast of Barbary. The greatest pain I feel, I will con fess to you, who have candour and generosity enough to make allowances


0
ances for the weahnefs of human nature, arises from that object which you rightly conjectured, was the: Source of that pen five melancholy which, it Seems,, was visible in my deportment before I left England But is Love, in reality, a weakness?? it a Subject of shame, and does it need^an apology? Is it not natural
t
to admire what cannot but excite
$
« •
admiration? Is it not fit to pay homage to the happiest astemblage that ever yet was formed of elegance beauty, sense, and virtue?
The only Scrap of paper that the Algerine cruizers, jealous of writings being used by the Christians for purposes of Sorcery, have by accident left me, is a little manuscript fbnnet>. that has never, as far as I know, been
printed, ^
c6
36
printed, on the Subject of Love. It is So Sensible, as well as tender, and
exprefses Such profound Sentiment, with So much brevity, as well as pathos, that I cannot forbear to transcribe it for your perusal, as I know how much you admire the strains of poetry, as well as those of music.
TO ELIZA.
You alk me, what is Love? hear all I know:
It is not reafon’s, ’tis not nature’s child.
Thus (peaks th’ experience of six thousand years; e.eafon’s too proud, and Nature is too wild.
Yet barbarous Nature has been known to feel, And proud Philosophy has learn’d to rest, when pierc’d by fate’s inexorable sting, in sweet depeiidancc on another’s breast.

When


  37
4
When Sense and intelleist together join,
Th’ harmonious union forms the angel Love j Reason mull regulate life’s mad career,
And teach the head long passions how to move.
The effe61 depends upon its cause;; thus, what’s perfect mull be lov’d : ’tis thus we see The chain divine hold on; and hence ’tis thus, The effet is seen in me, the cause in thee.
I know not whether there be anything in the climate and airos Spain that tends to the produdure of romantic ideas and knight errantry;

but, if I were to own the truth, I should Say, that Don Quixote was never more anxious to approve his condud: to the ideal Dulcinea del toboso, than I have been, and still am, to obtain the approbation of those to whom I owe gratitude, and honour; and favour, where I am ir
refistibly
V
38
/
drawn and attached by the impulse of Love.
But I forget where lam. A loud
/
call from the ovcrseer of the works, in which I am obliged to bear a Share, to feed the Chistian staves, reminds me, that I am not now, though I hope soon to be, in the posttestion of entire liberty,
I must quit the pen for the present. I Shall embrace the first opportunity of relating the events that led to my present situation' '
fear you will hardly be able to read what I have now written. It is necessary for me to use a compressed hand of writing, where so much is to be Said in so Small a compass.
Through the friendship of the English vice conful here, Mr. D -- -- -- th,
a gentle
  39
* /
a gentleman universally and deser vedly respected, I am enabled to convey this note to an English vessel, ready to Set Sail for England the first
m *
fair wind.
I have hardly room enough to Say, that I am your own.
THEODORE NEVILLE
I

40 THE  ^IFE


FROM T E 'SA M E
T O
THE
SAM E,
N a short Srcawl, lf it has come sase
ly to your hand, and you have been able to decypher its contents, written about a fortnight ago, you have been insormed that I am at Algiers, not in the most comfortable, and yet not in

the most distresssiil situation; but that no change of condition has made, or ever shall make, any change in the Sentiments with which I embrace those that are dear to me in England.
Among

/
  4i
I
Among the judicious and Satherly admonitions which you Srequently gave me, it was one, rather to avoid dishonour, by a punctual and rigid discharge of duty, than to court dis tindion by running, unnecessarily, into the throat of danger. Seats of chivalry, you observed, as often lead to detraction and envy, as to reward and honour. The plain and unas
fuming, but irreproachable path of a Soldier and gentleman, who does his duty, without affecting distinction, is, in your judgement, the most likely, as the world goes at present, to avoid contention, to conciliate friendship, and to obtain preferment. I am more than half persuaded, indeed, that your way of thinking, on this Subject, is just; but I well know
that
\
♦ <•
•> z X— — '

42
that your advice to me was dictated by the most anxious concern for my prosperity and Safety.
A train of accidents, of a most extraordinary nature, that displays
the intricacies of fate in a most striking manner, and with which you are by this time acquainted, conspired
ft
with the pastion which I have con fested, to wind up the sensibility of my soul to the highest pitch of impatience : and I longed for an opportunity of meeting an' honourable death or glorious victory.
, The Spaniards had long carried
»
on their approaches against Gibraltar, and constructed a strong work without much interruption; when our most consummate commander. Seizing the proper moment for involving
thousands
  43
thousands in one common ruin with their accumulated labours, determined to make a sortie one of the
•%
most desperate manoeuvres, I need not inform you, in the whole art of war. As the fuccess of this bold step depended on the intrepidity with which it should be carried into execution, volunteers alone were employed in the perilous expedition. I shall only say, that I was of that number, and that my Services, Such as they were, met with the warmest approbation and applause of the General.
Another piece of Service was, by and by, to be performed, which required, if possible, still more determined resolution.
The combined fleets of France and Spain not only blocked up the
Straits
44 the   lish.
Straits of Gibraltar, but Seemed to cover the ocean near as far as Cadiz. The weakened state of the garrison made it necessary that we should either be re enforced, or come Soon to terms of capitulation with the eaemy. It was, therefore, of the
last consequence that an account of our distressful Situation should be conveyed to the English administration.
4
To penetrate through the combined fleec by force, was impossible: nothing, therefore, remained for the accomplishment of our objed, but the way of stratagem. It was determined, that a Small party, with dispatches
for Lord George G — -- -- -- northeast,
attired in Spanish dresses, should make their way through the enemies
fleet,

  45
fleet, if possible, in an open boat; and, for the greater Security against Surprise, it was agreed on, that they Should not bend their course outward into the Atlantic, but inward to any neutral port in the Mediterranean, from whence the dispatches, in mul tiplied copies and directions, might be Sent to England.
The enterprise was big with danger, both, from the natural elements, and from the enemy; for the Small boat was not fit to live in any storm that might arise; and certain destruction, or, at best, captivity and irons, would attend them if they Should be
detected by the French and Spaniards.
General Eliott having astembled the whole of the officers in the fori

tress,
46
tress, explained his design of Sending dispatches in this manner, with the circumstances that made it necestary. A Suitable reward, he Said, undoubtedly would, and, if he lived, should be bestowed on any gentleman who should perform, or attempt to perform, so signal a piece of Service.
I was not the only one that offered his aid on this occafioni but my offer was accepted. With six gallant volunteers, accustomed to the oar and helm, and the management of a Small Sail, 1 came Safely through the hostile fleet; and, with a favourable wind, hoped in a short time to gain one or other of the ports of Nice,
Leghorn, or Genoa. We pasted, with the enemy, for a party Sent out
from the admiral’s ship for fresh vegetables and other provistons.
Wc

47
We Set out from Gibraltar about
\ •
ten o’clock in the forenoon, and continued our course, under an easy sail, all that day, as well as the greater part of the night following. But towards the dawning of the next day we were hailed and taken up by an Algerine corsair, who, from our dreltes, mistook us for Spaniards, and carried us prisoners to Algiers.
I found means, by liberal promises of reward to the Algerine, to send a letter to the Britisti vice conful, to
whom I communicated the whole of
/
the cafe. He represented this to the Dey, who, after a delay of some days,
ordered me and my companions to be released, and all necestary provisions to be granted for our little veitel, in cafe we should choose again
3 to

4^
to Set Sail, and to pursue our destination. But I have, with the advice
of Mr. D -- -- -- -- th, judged it more
prudent to Send different copies of the dispatches by vessels bound to different European ports. In those vessels I have distributed my faithful companions, tvho, I am sure, will never rest till they arrive in London.
I myself have taken a passage in a Ship bound to Naples, being confident that, what with the copies already sent by different routes, and what with those I Shall yet send, the dispatches will, in good time, Safely
reach their destination.
You must understand that it is the custom here, to let out the Service of
r
prisoners of war, to farmers and others, for hire; and this is no Small [
resource


49

resource to the state. But if the prisoner, or stave, can make up matters, by money, or by hopes, with his
master, he may live in ease, and even a kind of barbarous luxury.
Adieu, dear Sir, for the present.
I am afloat, as it were, on the world,
>
and cannot yet think of coming to anchor.
THEODORE NEVILLE.
VOL. III
D
50
LADY ANNE W
A
V



r?
ir



t
$
/


T O
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER.
Grosvenor Square.
Have Some apologies to make to
my dear Coz for not writing Sooner;
but when she looks at the place from
whence this is dated, I am certain of
being excused. Lady de Grey, who
arrived two days after myself, detained
me one whole day, therefore some
of the blame rests with her.
And now, with regard to the
Stranger, who is still alive, and, I
hope, in a fair way of recovery.
After
I
fu.
oh
"‘B* John ston,

%
After my visit at the George, i became greatly interested in the fate of the sick Lady; for Lfaw, both by her maiinef, and the tifefs of the
Child, that they were not common
0
people. I determined to astist them as much as was in my power, and in order to do this effectually, I wished to be acquainted with her story. Something very disastrous must have happened, I thought, to bring a beautiful young woman to the sttua don which presented itself to my imagination, on beholding her in a strange place, without the means of Support. I thought she might be
s
reserved before me, and I was loth to ask her to give an account which, I supposed, might be painful to her. Therefore, I determined to Send the
D 2 girl
■% —
^2
AP
f
girl to visit her, who had first Seen and commiserated her helpless state. I ordered her to try, if postible, to firid out where (he came from, and who she was; but not to do it So as it might Seem to proceed from an impertinent curiosity.
She went to the George, and returned in about an hour and an half, with the following letter, addrested to me.
MADAM,
»
Born down by ficicnefs and misfortune, my trembling hand almost refuses to dischargc a duty that gratitude obliges it to attempt. To your ladyship’s bounty I owe my life. Oh that I had been deserving of Such
goodness!
'.1
  53
goodness! How fiiall I relate to you circumstances that I could wish buried in oblivion, and which, only to pass my memory in dreadsul retro spedl, harrows up my Soul. I dare not hope, .aster my Sad story is known, that your Ladyship will still honour me with your attention. Yet, miserable as I am, I am above deception

I have Suffered too much
by its banesul influence, ever to adopt it my Seif.
You, Madam, both by rank and education, are placed above the arts
by which many an unsuspedling female is made a prey : yet pity for the miseries you can never know is all I
ask; and, I blush to Say, I fear more
than I deserve
« •
tears flow So fast on the paper whilst I write, it is imposhble for me
D
3
to
54   to proceed in the dreadful task I had
t
proposed, this evening. In the morning 1 will endeavour toicolleo: a Sufficient portion of my story to show your
h.
Ladyship how impossible it is for me ever to expect quiet in this world.
The servant who brings this will, with your ladyship’s permission, call in the afternoon tomorrow, when I will send what I have written. Though it precludes me from ever hearing again from you, Madam, yet my latest prayers shall be for your happiness.
I am,
f
0
Your ladyship’s grateful Servant,,
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE.
Yon
THE LA byrinths OF LIFE. 55
You may judge of my feelings, on the receipt of the above letter, by
your own
lam Sure we Should be
affe(sted in a similar manner.
As I have a Spice of ill nature in my compost tion, and am also a little hurried with receiving and returning vistts, you must wait for the Sequel of the story until the next post day, when I promise to gratify your cu fiostty. In the mean time,
I am,
Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY
56
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME
"YOU See that I am true as a lover to his appointment, although I have had numberless temptations laid in
my way this morning, Such as a walk in Kensington Gardens, an auction at christie’s, the rehearfiil of a new opera,
0
c. yet I have withstood them all, and
%
am nov sitting in. ray dressing-room accompanied by my faithful Fidelia, who is amusing hersclf with barking t her own shadow.

2.
I return you many thanks for your letter which I received last night.
. Lady

%
Lady de Grey and myself have bad great pleasure in contemplating the.
city group
Wte think that vou
bid fair for happiness, Should the union you speak of take place. I
like the idea which you threw out, of seeming to approve the addresses of ’squire Richard; let me entreat you to pursue it — I will assist you,, when I come to the Abbey. It is right that the Duke should be punished for allowing such a thing to attempt at gaining your affections.. And the brute himself ought to be punished also. It will be the best joke imaginable.
But, pray who is this other lover you mention I believe you have a
upon him, by your silence as to who and what he is.
serious design
D S
That
THE
or lire
58
V
That he may be deserving of you h
my sin cere wish.
Whilst I am in Derbyshire, I shall be glad to dance at your weddings
I have been lately So habituated to Sorrow, that I shall hardly know how to be merry with a good grace; but 1 trust, on' a good occasion, I
shall not be found deficient.
I will not now detain you longer from the story I have Sent with this letter, than while I give my brother’s compliments to yourself and family.
tour’s,
ANNE WESTEURY.

\

59
the
S T O
O F
EMILIA FITZA.DLEYNE.
I SHALL begin my story at the
age of fisteen, not to tyre your Ladyship with a detail of uninteresting e vents. My life pasted, until the a above mentioned period, in calm Serenity. My Father was curate of a Small living in a distant part of Yorkshire; my Mother died when I was too young to feel her loss, but an old Servant took every care of me that the most tender parent could have wished,. I had neither Sister nor Brother : ind
6
deed
60
deed this was rather a blessing than otherwise, considering the Small stipend

my Father received. It was neceffiiry for the utmost economy to be practised, that we might make a Suitable appearance to the situation in which my Father was placed.
In the neighbourhood of the village in which we lived, resided a Nobleman, in whose Samily my Mother
had
been brought
up.
Since her
death the housekeeper had been very kind to me.
There was no Lady : she was dead
many years: only Lord R -- -- -- -- and
Ills Son. At those times when the Sa mily was down in the country, my Father was particularly caresul that I
did not CO to the Hall; that, indeed,
did not happen osten, for my Lord Spent most of his time in London.
During

  6 I
Durino; the Summer months, whilst they were in the country, they generally brought a number of young men of fashion down with them. It happened at oneos these times that I went to the Hall, not knowing that the family was there, to visit my good «
friend the housekeeper;; was greatly surprised to find her busted in Setting out an elegant desert. However, I Set to work, in order to help her in the dilpofition of the flowers. I had taken off my hat and gloves, the weather being.remarkably warm, and was standing near a window which was open, when my Lord R — pasted it in his way to the stables. He stopped and looked in as he pasted. I dropped a curtsy, he returned a slight bow and pasted on, but Soon after returned leaning on the arm of
his
62
/
his Son, a fine youth about thirteen.. A young gentleman was with them that I had never Seen before. His
_ f
Lordship called Mrs. Jervis, and ashed her what little beauty she had got with her. She told him who I was: he Said that I must dine with him as he could not think of placing me at the second table. My foolish heart was Swelled with vanity. Coronets and coaches danced before my eyes, and I worked myself up to that pitch, that I actually believed myself already a Lady. Mrs. Jervis was not So well pleased with my invitation as I was, That I plainly Saw; which I Set down to envy in her, instead of the real motive. I fretted myself all the morning because I had not drested myself to the best advantage, having on only a plain linen gown and black beaver
5 hat.
  63
bat. I had a vast profusion of hair, which hung in natural ringlets about my face and neck. The dinner bell rang, and I went upstairs with the
butler. My Lord met me at the
•*
door of the dining parlour and handed me to a Seat, at the same time saying, that he would have been happy had my Father beenof the party; but that as it was now too late to alk the favour of his company, another day he hoped to see us again. I sat covered with blushes, which his Lordship continued to heighten, by praising my hair, teeth, shape, c. There were two other gentlemen at the table also, one of them was the same who pasted Mrs. jervis’s room whilst I was at the window. He was not extremely handsome, but had a most engaging countenance, and the
64
finest form I ever Saw; he took un
m
common pains to remove my em barrast'ment, and paid me a marked and elegant attention. I did not know his name, for he was always addresfed by the name of Harry.
Well as I had been pleased with the idea of dining with his Lordship, I now wished myself out of the room, I was going to retire as soon as the desert was removed, but his lord ship said that he would not lose my company So soon;; that they did not waste their time in drinking, and that he had ordered a little concert in order to divert me. We do not, said he, use the ceremonies of the town : here we live for ourselves. Harry do you show miss Fitzalleyne the picture you drew of her; she will, I think, pim nounce you no mean artist. No, my
Lord,
 65
Lord, Said he, I will not produce So mean a copy whilst I have it in my power to see the fair original.
Just as he had ended the Sentence, the doors of the Saloon were thrown
t
open, and I heard a very fine concert, which was Sometimes accompanied by the gentlemens voices. After the miisip was finished, I begged leave to retire, as it grew late, and my Father, I knew, would be uneasy. To this his Lordshio consented, but not until I had promised that my Father should wait on him on the next Sunday to dinner.
I went home with, a heart as light as a feather. I flew to my father’s study, told him the honour that had been conferred on me, and the engagement that I had made for him, for the next Sunday. He Said that he
was
66

was Sorry that I had fallen into Such company, not that he had any doubt of his lordship’s honour, but that a girl’s getting into company above her station, lessened her industry if it did not taint her morals: indeed, he Said, it rarely happened but both fufferedr To tins' I did not reply I left my Father in a very bad humour, but I determined to prevail on him to make the visit I had promised his Lordship; on the next Sunday I then began to employ my mind in arranging my dress,
I had never before thought of any consequence. 1 turned over my drawers, nothing in which gave me fatisfadfion. At length I determined upon a mustin jacket and coat, which I designed to trim wi th Some pale blue ribbon, and also buy a chip hat and ornament it in like mantle

 . 6^
ner, with blue ribbon. This employment took up all the intermediate space between that time and Sunday, His Lordship and family were at church. The visitor, whom I shall in future call Henry, made me a most respectable bow as he pasted my pew, and I observed, that during the Service, he never took his eyes off me. This pleased me highly, as I had, from the first moment of Seeing him, considered him as the most elegant man I had ever beheld. After the Service was over, his Lordship went up to my Father and desired that we would take a seat in his coach;, which he accepted. We were entertained at the Hall with much hospitality.

After dinner his Lordship
rang for the housekeeper, to whom, bespoke Some few words, and their
de
6
3

desired that I would go with Mrs. Jervis, as She had Something to show
me. I did So; we went upstairs, when she told me that 1 was become a very great favourite of his lordihip’s, and that perhaps I might be her Lady some of these days. That her orders were to present me with a fet of drawers that stood in the room, and also with their contents. They contained, she Said, some of the clothes of her late Lady, and, as she believed, had never been opened Since her death. I was almost dumb with joy. We opened the drawers, which con tained a quantity of wearing apparel and fine laces, and many little trinkets. Among the most valuable was the pi6ture of Henry, wshich I concealed as Soon as I Saw it, fearing that Mrs. Jervis might take it froih
me.
  69
me, should she discover it. After hav inq: locked the drawers I went down
O
stairs, in order to thank his Lordship for theprefent which he had just made me. On entering the parlour, I was Surprised to find every one gone but Henry, who was sitting writing a letter. I stepped back, intending to go and sit with Mrs. Jervis until the return of his Lordship; which I was prevented from putting in pradfice by henry’s calling out, “Do not go away, miss Fitzalleyne, I have been left by his Lordship to escort you into the garden, where your Father and he are gone.” I again reentered the parlour. ‘‘ Surely, Said he, you will not deny me the happiness of being your attendant. But before you go, or I am interrupted, let me ast'ure you, that I confider this as the
hap
\

happiest moment of my life, which will hence forward be dedicated to your Service, Only say this, it is all I ask, that you feel no prepoffes
-- --, who,
fion in favour of Lord R
I know, entertains very favourable Sentiments towards you. I was unable to answer; surprise, joy and shame had taken poffestion of me — I would have given the world to have Sunk into the floor. He Saw my agitation and approached me, he took hold of my hand, his was in a tremor. How am I to interpret, your silence, has his Lordship gained your affections? Surely that is imposhble : if he has,
I am miserable indeed.” I recovered
«
my Speech Sufficiently to say, “Surely, Sir, you do not mock me, and if not, how is it possible to suppose Lord R — ■ ■ ■ should entertain any thoughts
of

71
osa young woman like myself? — Shall we not go to the garden, my Father will wonder at my stay ?” He would not permit me to leave the room until
I had allured him, that Lord R -- -- --
was totally indifferent to me. This I did not refuse, and we went immediately andjoined his Lordship and my Father, who chid me for staying So
long, I thanked Lord R -- -- -- -- -- for
the kind present that he had bestowed upon me. The evening coming on, my Father desired to take his leave. We were Sent home in the carriage. I did not Speak much during our ride. My mind was occupied with what Henry had Said to me, who had a greater interest in my heart than I was then aware of. Iconfidered myself beloved by him, and my ideas car
My
me
2

7
me what made me So thoughtful. I dissembled with him,
Sayinp;
J O
that
Lord R -- -- -- had made me a present
of a number of fine clothes, and that I was thinking how to make them up to the best advantage. This reason Satisfied him, as he had not seen Henry Speak to me. I thought it an age until the next morning; when the drawers were Sent that contained rhy finery, and also what was more valuable than them all, the pidiire of Henry. I could not guess how this had got into the drawers of Lady R — —; but, upon inquiry, I found that my Lover, for I did not Scruple to confider henryassuch, was nephew to her Ladyship, In the afternoon he came to our house, under the pretence of calling on my Father; though he took an opportunity to
* say
  73
1
say the visit was made to me, and. that he had a Secret to communicate which concerned me very nearly. He begged that I would meet him in the wood. Sometime betwixt breakfast and dinner, the next morning. Curiosity prompted mesto promise that I would endeavour to meet him at the time appointed. I made an excuse to my Father, that 1 was going to visita friend at the next village about two miles off, and met Henry who had been waiting for my arrival Some time. He approached most respectfully, I thought his air Seemed very formal, Miss Fitzalleyne, said he, 1 know not how to thank yoti for this conde
feenfion. I am impelled by the
%
strongest motive, to endeavour, if postibie, to Serve you: you are, at present, on a precipice. I started, really
VOL. III
E
alarmed
y4   -
alarmed at his words. Fear not, mj\ amiable girl, no harm shall happen to: you whilst this arm can defend you.! The danger is not yet So near, though,;
* j
I Sear, not the less certain. You arei
. 'i
unsuspicious; but I must put you oiil
your guard against Lord R -- -- -- -- -- --
whose designs are aimed against youri future peace. Swear that you will never reveal to any one, what I shall relate to you; as if you did, it might;
I
materially injure me. I Swore never to utter a syllable he should tell me, and he began as follows :
Permit me to ask you, whether you have not received a very considerable
? I
an
present from Lord R -- -- -- -- -
fwered that I had. He Said that his Lordship had, in confidence, told him that he intended to make me his mistress, and. that he had given
me
  75
I
me a great many fine clothes; for as he intended to run away with me, he wished me to be uled to dress, which would take away a little of the aukwardness of the country. Well, Said I, but how did he know whether I would consent? Oh, replied he, that was of no consequence: : you would go willingly, very well; if not, a little force would accomplish his purpose.
When he paused, I was ready to faint through terror. He took my hand and begged that I would compose myself, as I might rest afisured, that whilst he lived, no man should injure me with impunity. He then declared himself my Lover; that he could not exist without me; but begged me to be astured that his intentions were honourable, and that See
2
crecy
7
6
/
crecy was necefsary, as he was totally dependant on his uncle, who would withdraw his favour. Should he ever suspedl that he had betrayed his Secret, Nay, his uncle had desired him to act a part in my destruction, and as he did not doubt his compliance, had opened his plan to
him, which was laid very deep: but as he knew it, would be in his power to counteract it. I returned him a thousand thanks. Say but that I am not indifferent to you, and I am overpaid. He pressed my hand to his lips, and bid me be careful of the Secret he had reposed in me. This I faithfully promised; and we parted, after I had given my word to meet him at the same place the next evening.. 5
Not
I
  yy
Not to tyre your Ladyship, we continued to meet Secretly for more than two months, when Lord R -- -- -- --
prepared to leave the country, at the time when Henry assured me, the design against me was to be put into practice. Meanwhile I had never gone out alone, except to meet my Lover, for whom I had conceived an everlasting affection.
His Lordship had been frequently
«
at our house; Sent many presents to my Father of venison, game, chut I had avoided going tp the Hall as much as possible.
At length the time arrived, when Henry was to attend his Uncle to town. I grew melancholy, fearing that he would forget me amongst So many beauties that Surrounded him.. He Said and did everything to quiet
E
3
my
/

my fears; called me his wife; andfworc that DO authority on earth Should hinder him from making me Such, the instant that it was in his power. We agreed on a place to carry on a correspondence; and, not without abundance of tears on both fides, parted.
I went home, and was taken extremely ill. The next day Lord
R -- -- -- and Henry came to take leave
of my Father. I was then confined to my bed, and, of course, could not take a farewell look at him who was wholly master of my thoughts. In a few wteks I recovered, and was able to walk out. During my illness, I had been obliged to make a confidant of a girl in the village, whom my Father had got to attend on me. She brought me henry’s letters, and carried my answers. Those were fraught
with

with the utmost tenderness; he continued to call me his wife; and I had
f
no doubt, but that we Should, one
#
day, be united.
About three months aster henry’s departure, my Father had Some bu smess which called him from home for Some weeks. It was about Christmas. I was sitting in the parlour, accompanied by the little girl who had staid with me since my illness, when a man on horseback came to the gate; he asked for my Father, but on being told he was from home, he requested that a note which he had in his hand, might be conveyed to me. The contents were as follows :
“My dearest Emilia, your hus band is at the door; will you admit him, and conceal him from the eye
E 4 of
8o
of every one. He is wretched, and only you can relieve his woe.
HENRY.’*
I flew to the gate, and bade him instantly alight. My joy at Seeing him
did not give me time to confider a moment. He Said, that no one must see him; when we were alone he would explain himself more fully.
1 sent the servant out of the
way
but was obliged to trust the girl who was constantly my companion.
We got him into the parlour, when he said. Oh Emilia! you Sec before you the veriest wretch in nature; I have ruined myself and you for ever. I am come to take an everlasting adieu. Never more will these
eyes look delighted on yours. -- -- -- --
Gracious
  8i
Gracious heaven! Said I, Henry, explain yourself, is you do not wish to See me expire in your presence: what has besallen you? has your Uncle forsaken you.? Speak to me. I am a wretch, an exile, driven
r
from you, from my country — would I could run from myself! I am come to take a long and last farewell. I have unfortunately been involved in a duel. It has terminated fatally for my antagonist. I am come now, at the risk of my life, which is forfeited,, to press you, for the last time, to my faithful bosom. Some happier mam is destined to fill those arms. By heavens the very thought distracts me! I cannot bear it. —
Here he pulled out a pistol from one of his pockets, and pointed it tot

his breast. I ran and snatched it
e5
from

82
from his hand, and fell senseless at »
his feet.
On my recovery, he begged my pardon, Said that he was frantic: not that he minded exile, had I been his wife - and shared it with him. That it was the Separation from me that distra(5ted him. He Said, that he had Sufficient fortune to render us happy in any country, could he. be So fortunate to gain my consent
to our union. I assured him that
his situation made no difference in
/
my affection, and that I would Solemnly promise, never to inarry another.
Well then. Said he, to put your affection to the test, will you instantly fly with me. I must be out of the kingdom, if possible, by tomorrow
dawn.
1 started : the idea
was
i

»
r I
  83
was new, to leave my Father, and put myself under the proteduon of a man I had only Seen for a few months.
I See, Said he, you will not marry an exile; and, if not, my life is not worth the holding. I will not fly: my life is forfeited, and I will await my doom. Death will come in a milder form, when inflicted by her
r
who is dearer than life.
•*
I endeavoured to persuade him to
be calm; assured him, that no mis
*
could alter my affection; and
that, to convince him of it, I was ready to follow him through the.
world.
He threw himself at my feet, and
acted athoufand extravagancies, while I was bathed in a flood of tears.. What I had promised rushed upon
e6
my
§4
my 'tnind. To leave my father’s house — to plunge him in Sorrow perhaps never to See him more.
. This occupied my thoughts, and prevented me from uttering a word.
Let us be gone Said he.
The
poor girl, who had been as yet a filent witness of the scene, burst into tears, and cried, Oh, miss Emilia, take me along with you : indeed i’ll not betray you, Sir; I will Serve you with my life, only let me go; I cannot
• X
bear to lose her. So thou shalt, my girl, said he, if my Emilia wishes it. She is my wife; no power shall ever Separate us.
Go, said he, put up what you and your mistress mean to take with you. As every minute is pregnant with danger — I may be pursued. The girl left the room, I then said,
Henry,
I
  85
Henry, I place implicit confidence in you; do not deceive me. He knelt down, called heaven to witness the purity of his intention, which his p"esent unhappy situation rendered it impossible to realise. ^
Thus I yielded to his Sufferings, what my reason would have taught me to Scorn in any other situation.
He had a chaise with his baggage about a mile from our house. He Said he would go and bring it to the corner of the lane, as, in his predicament, the fewer people Saw him the better.
gone, I wrote to my Father, Saying, that I was gone with one who meant honourably, though I was not at liberty to give his name; and that he should hear from me very Soon. I
entreated
During the time he was
e6
entreated him to forgive the step I had taken.
Henry returned with a man ser vant, who astisted Mary to put our bundles into the chaise, and we were gone before the maid returned, to whom 1 had given leave to See her Father for an hour or two.
Your Ladyship must allow me to pause at this part of my Sad story : tomorrow I will resume it. When I think to how many Sad days and nights that fatal step was the forerunner, I am not able to proceed.
I am,
%

Your ladyship’s humble Servant,
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE,
\
  87
V
Arn not I very good to tr an Scribe
thus Sar. I must make the Same ex
#
that Emilia does, for really even’ writing her story over affects me most powerfully. tomorrow you shall have the Sequel. In the mean time I Subscribe myself,
Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY.
88
FROM THE SAME
T O
i.
THE
SAME.
iti
IS im
, my dear Coz, to pcrsonn my promise of giving you the story of Tniilia by this day’s post. I have just received the following note from Lady de Grey.
“My dearest Lady A nne, if ever you had compasiion, extend it towards me, who am at this moment the most miserable wretch existing. Do not delay coming to me. ‘ Some news that I have heard from abroad almost distraos me; and it is only to you that I dare to impart the cause of
my
r
I
1
  89
my Sorrow. Charles brings the carriage, and will attend you hither.
Yours, ^
LAURA DE GKEYP
I am all curiosity as well as yours

Self; therefore, I have put Mr. Vernon into the drawing-room, whilst: I write my excuse to your Ladyship : If you don’t grant it freely, I will rob you of your city admirer, when I come down to the Abbey.. Aye, and of your other lover too. I am told, that I have the happy art of stealing hearts; So have a care of
Your Friend,
ANNE WESTBURY
90
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
Shall certainly turn author in a
Short time, for the pen has hardly
been out of my hand these three
days. I don’t know, however, whether
I Should Succeed, as mine are all
melancholy stories.
Poor Lady de Grey was last night
almost out of her wits, because a
letter had been received in town,
saying, that Neville was killed, which
turned out, upon further inquiry.
to be without foundation. But Mr.
Raymond has actually received a
letter from himself, Saying, that he
is
  9i
is a prisoner in Algiers; which, in my opinion, is but a little better than
actual death.
Poor Laura is as
wretched as if she was a widow a Second time.
I Saw the letter Sent by Neville to Mr. Raymond, who is also greatly afflicted at his fate; yet he writes in very good Spirits, and Seems to say, that his treatment is tolerable, poor fellow I He ought to be happy, if merit, under adverse circumstances, can give any title to happiness.
I comforted Lady de Grey as well
as I could, and left her tolerably com
\
She has promised to go to the play with me this evening; foi have not rnuch time on my hands to conclude the story of Emilia. I shall
not take up any more of your time, but proceed.
92
SEQUEL OF The story
O F
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE.
As Soon as I was Seated in the
chaise, I began to reflect on the impropriety of the step I had taken, but it was now too late to recede. Henry was almost frantic with joy; he Swore to protect me with his lise, the remainder of which, he said, Should convince me of his gratitude.
We did not stop until we came to Hull, where I prested Henry to take shipping directly for France. This he refused, saying that he would venture across the country, through bye roads, to Dover, having
appointed

93
appointed a Servant to meet him there. I was obliged, though reluctantly, to comply.
On our arrival at the last mentioned place, we Sound the Servant waiting, who informed Henry, that the gentleman with whom he Sought was not dead, that he had only fainted from loss of blood, and that there were great hopes of his recovery.
My joy'at this news was excessive. I then thought of returning with Henry to my Father, and receiving his sanction to our union. I mentioned this, but was informed that it was impossible, and that we must go to France, until the gentleman fiiould be out of danger, when we were to return immediately.
We took the first packet that failed, and arrived Safe at Calais. We
had
r
^4,
I
had no Sooner taken a little resrefh ment, than Henry went out, and in less than an hour returned, Saying, my charming Emilia, to show you how gratesul I am for the confidence you have placed in me, I have been to see if there were any englisii clergyman in the place, who could give a title I am most proud and eager to altume — that of your husband. Fortune has favoured my wishes, and 11 have brought the gentleman, who | waits in the next room for your leave ■ to enter. I Said, had we not better I
'1
wait till our return, which would;; be a few days, when I should ‘ be happy in complying with his wishes.
Confider, Emilia, replied he, what a risk we run of being Separated,

should Lord R
hear of our being

together j
  95
together; which he must have done besore this time. Then let me instantly have a just claim to protect you.
I did not oppose him, as indeed, in my present circumstances, the step he proposed was the most prudent. He introduced the clergyman, who read the ceremony, which I thought united us for ever. No one was present but the poor girl who had accompanied me.
As Soon as the clergyman was gone, Henry exprested the utmost joy, and promised to be guided by his charming wise in his Suture conduct. He Said that it would not be
proper to let Lord R -- -- know of
our union, until his rage was a little abated, which would be excesfive at finding that I was now totally out of his power for ever.
. * ■ W
«
  j
i
We spent twelve months in France,;
*
travelling from place to place. Du |
this time my little girl was born. [
»
I thought mysels the happiest wo | in the world. I had no wish that was not instantly gratified. Sometimes, indeed, I gave a sigh to think \ of the Sorrow I must have occasioned to the best of Fathers, to whom I could never prevail on Henry to allow me to write. He always amused me with the idea, that we should return to England So soon that it was now unnecesssary. He was my oracle, and therefore whatever he Said was decisive.
One morning, after breakfast, he appeared to be particularly thoughtful. I entreated to be made acquainted with the cause, as he had just received letters from England.
Nay,
 . 9; ^
Nay, Said he, don’t alarm yoursslf, Emilia, the cause of my depression
of
Spirits would appear trivial to most other people, though I know it will prove a matter of serious concern to each of us It is no more than that there is a necessity for my going to England dire£lly» We shall not be Separated for more than a month; but if I judge of your feelings by my own, that time will' be considered an age I burst into a stood of tears and entreated permission to go along with him. He Said, if that had been possible he would never have hinted at going alone: but that his p re fence wus necessary in order to sign Some deeds;
f
that, until this was done, he could not procure any more money; and that as we were indebted in a pretty
VOL. III
F
large
that should be discharged.
98
large Sum in the place where we then were, it would not be proper for us both to leave the place until
I might
be assured, that nothing should detain him longer than the business was executed upon which he went.
Although I could not deny the propriety of his argument, yet it did not lessen my feeling for this temporary Separation. I never ceased weeping whenever I thought of it.
At length the dreadsul morn of
parting came. It was the last day of my dream of happiness, and my tears never cease to flow when I think of it. We parted, after many [ promises, not to let a post pass without a letter.
1 had now nothing but my child to
comfort and amuse me, in the absence
of
  99
oshim who was become dearer to ine than existence itself. I waited impatiently the arrival of the post to bring me an account of henry’s Safe arrival in England, This I received on the" fifth morning after his departure. — ‘as I cannot bear to read, much less to transcribe these letters, I Send them to your Ladyship, begging to have them returned after you have perused them.
HENRY TO EMILIA.
MY ADORABLE WIFE,
1s it possible that Seas are now rolling between us ^ I feel it is So, as there is a vacuum in my breast which nothing but my Emilia can Supply,
I arrived Safe in England about an hour ago, after being detained at
F 2
Calais
loo
0
Calais for the Space of two days by contrary winds. Had they not changed just as they did, I was on the point of taking post horses and surprising you, agreeably I hope,
nay
I do not doubt it. So you See
the wind, though Savourable to me, was the contrary to you. It was the first time our interests were ever Southeast
f
parated, and I give a sigh at the idea that this should ever happen; though on So trivial a point.
How many times have you thought of your Henry, my Emilia, how many times wished for his return? How is my little Harriet .1^ Give her ten thousand kisses for me, and I will return them when we meet; which, that it may not be delayed, I shall conclude this which is wrote whilst my chaise is getting ready.
^ Adieu
.

  loi
Adieu, my much loved Wife,
think frequently of your
HENRY.
I read this letter over an hundred times; it was my only consolation, except the attendance on my child. I wrote an immediate answer to
w
Henry, prayed him to hasten his business in London, for that 1 found it insupportable to live without him. My maid, who had So faithfully followed my fortunes, did everything in her power to divert me. I found myself unfit for society; wherefore I avoided going much abroad.
In a few days I received another letter from Henry, which only Served to increase my gratitude and affection.

I
10 2
HENRY TO EMILIA.
London,
MY DEAR GIRL,
I Arrived in town yesterday. As Soon as I was dressed I went to wait
on my uncle R
, who, I Sound
by my reception, war acquainted with opr affair. Will you Sorgive when I tell you that I durst not declare to him our marriage, as 1 Sound that he w’as not as yet made acquainted with it? I Seared lest the effect of his resentment might injure our future prospect, had I revealed our union directly. This must plead my excuse. Had I had you by my fide, perhaps I might have been forgiven. Alone I felt rnyself a coward. I will not relate to you the number of Severe things that his
Lord

102
Lordship Said to me, but as they were dictated by a regard to my hap piness, that is, to the happiness of my Emilia, I forgave them all.
I wander about in this great city
as in a desart. I am difii'atisfied with
>
myself, and confec]^uently with all about me. The sight of you would tranquillize my mind, and render London the garden of Eden.
If I meet a well dreffed woman, I always begin to make comparisons, how much better would my love look in that dress, and determine to purchase you just Such when you arrive: for I fear I shall be detained
longer than I at first fufpeoed; and I feel it imposhble to exist much longer deprived of your society, and the sight of my Sweet little cherub, Harriet.
\
F +
Lord
i04 the i/abyrintits of life.
Lord R
thinks that I have been
very extravagant during my residence on the Continent. He does not
know what it is to have a wise whom he adores, and whose most extravagant wish, ought to be instantly gratified. Not that I lay any of rrly expenses to your account: no j you have frequently, by your prudence, restrained me when I wished to be at ail profuse. His Lordship has actually resufed me any fresh Supply unkss I give him my honour that I will remain in England. This it was imposhble for me to comply with; and the deeds I have to sign in order to procure cash of my own, will not be ready, through Some particular form of law, until Sometime in the text month. However I have borrowed Sufficient to send you in
the
i
,
r
TITE LABYR tntirs' OF' LISS.
105
the mean time. The bear idea of your wanting a Superffuous cap would pain me extremely.
I Send you a draught for two hundred pounds. You need not make use of this to discharge any debts, as I will Send Sufficient for that purpose at the time I mentioned that the deed would be executed. I have one disagreeable piece of news to insorm you of,
but will defer it until I See you;
$•
when it ffiall be my business to dissipate
its effect. In the mean time be careful of yourself for my sake, and our little Harriet, wdrom I expect to See much grown wdien we meet,, at no very distant period I hope, the mean time I am
In
Affectionately, and wholly yours
f5
HENRY.
The
lo THE labyilinths OF LIFE.
The hint at Something disagreeable,
which Henry Said he had to
. ■ *
inform me of, raised a number of dreadful ideas in my mind, I wished
that he had informed me what it
was.
The death of my Father was what presented itself most forcibly
to my mind. I wrote to him, begging to be informed of the worst, I had my apprehensions confirmed by a most truly affectionate letter from Henry, which I have, by Some
accident, lost.
This news operated too powerfully on my Spirits, and I fell ill of a violentfever. My life was despaired of
for Some days: but a good constitution combated the disorder, and I re
/
to experience still greater
miseries.
I had

  i07
I
I had not been out of my bed more dian three days, before I received a letter from my husband, informing rne, that it was impofiible for him to come to France; as his uncle had threatened, that if he did, he need not expect any farther countenance from him; that he had endeavoured to found him, how he would take the news of our marriage,, and that it was not by any means
X
proper that he should be acqainted with the circumstance at this, time;, assuring nae, that nothing but the; absolute want of money could delay his requesting me to come over to
him.
I thought I dilherned - something: of a colder style in his letters thaa formerly.
very uneasy, and wrote many letters
In
short I began to grow
F 6
impor
losi
THE liibt'rtjnths OE tsfe.
importuning him to let me come to him, which he always answered, by
4
asiuring me, that the moment it wa in his power he would Send his Seri

vant to conduct me to him.
This pasted on for the Space of Six months, when, one day as 1 was sitting at work, Mary came crying into the room. 1 asked what was the matter. Oh my poor dear Lady! my poor dear Lady! This was all I could get from her. I trembled So much that I could hardly request to know what she meant. Is my Husband ill? Nay, perhaps dead, Said Ij Speak
Mary. -- -- -
No, no, he is neither;
though I wish he had been dead before you had ever Seen him. What will become of you and Miss Harriet .i What has happened instantly say; leave no longer in Suspense.
I was
  IO
I was standing at the door just now’, Said she, wshen a man came up, and asked for my master. I told bim that he had been in England these Six months. Oh, replied he, he is at his tricks again, is he? What, has he left your mistress? lest her I — no; only Sora little : he will come again Soon. If you have any mestage ril tell my Lady, and perhaps she can give you an answer. What, replied he, don’t you know me? No, Said I, — I am Sure I never Saw your
Sace before. — Were not you present when my Master made a sham marriage with your mistress 1 Yes, replied I, but it was no sham 3 and there was no body by but myself, except the clergyman and they tw’o. Well, Said he, don’t you think that I could
make a very good parson upon a
pm
ch?
I lo
pinch } I looked at him, and indeed, Madam, it was the Same face as the clergyman’s.
1 stood petrified with astonishment. As Soon as I could Speak, I inquired for the man. Mary said, that She knew where to find him, that he was once a servant of her master’s, and that he had Sent him over to Calais on purpose to person ate a clergyman, in order to deceive me into a marriage. It was not the first time he had been So employed. What, said he, did your Mistress believe the humbug story of the duel?
Ay, to be Sure, Said I: Why, was it not true — Not one s)dlable. He knew when the old parson, your mistress’s Father, was from home, and So thought that the best way waste take her by Surprise.
Mary,.

TH  . HI
Mary, Said I, do not proceed, without
you wish to See me expire instantly. I threw myself on a Sofa, and there remained, without Speaking a word, for more than an hour j mv mind in a state not to be de scribed. At length tears came to my relief. Mary, poor girl, was by my fide all the time, with one of my hands in hers, bathing it with her tears. don’t fret, my dear, dear Lady, if my cruel Master does disown and desert you, as the man says he will, I will work until I drop dead Sooner than you Should want. i’ll beg for you. don’t cry so.
The sensibility of this poor girl rather increased than diminished my Sorrow. I began to revolve in my mind every circumstance that had pasted since I had left my father’s
ho life..
r
IT 2
bouse. I did not See anything mysterious in the conduct of Henry, and 1 blamed myself for listening to an idle tale, told by a servant, who had said what he did, perhaps, out of revenge for being turned out of his
place. But then the story of the
/
clergyman could not be a forged one, as Mary knew him to be the same person. However, so much did affection plead ^ in favour of henry’s truth that i still determined to doubt, though conviction stared me full in the face. I wanted confirmation of the story from him wsho had practised the deceit. 1 wrote by the next post; informed him of what I had heard, and requested, by our former affection, to tell me the truth, and let me know .what was really my
Situation:


 II
situation: : I received the following letter.
HENRY TO EMILIA.
Why will my charming - girl endeavour to make herself wretched, when the whole study of my life was, and is, to procure her happiness? Surely you are not so absurd as to place yours on a black gown, a Sanctified face, and a few words muttered by an old fellow, who perhaps may never see you again, and certainly never trouble himself whether you are miserable or no, for the remainder of your existence.
You ask for the truth.
Love be my excuse, when I confess, that 1 did make use of a little stratagem to ensure myself the undoubted
right
1 j4
right to the heart of my Emilia. She had long been in pofieffion of mine, nor fiball I ever alk it back.
I durst not actually marry, and I knew that you would shrink from any offer of another kind; having proved that by the story I told you, r and which love alone fuggestcd, of a design which my Uncle had conceived of carrying you off. The
horror which you expressed at hearing this, convinced me that any offer of that kind would ruin me for ever. Has any action of mine proved to
you that you was deceived } I am not conscious of any; and it must be greatly your own fault if ever you have reason to complain of my const udl:. Then, for heaven’s sake, do not let us quarrel about a few idle words, which can never bind the
affedfions,


affedfions, though, they may compel two wretches to drag on a miserable existence together for life. ' The days that we have passed, were fraught with too much happiness for us now to wrangle about the means by which it was accomplished. You are the wife of my heart: there your image Sits enshrined. The time may come when it may be in my power to adopt the mode which custom has blished.
X
For your Satisfaction alone I mention this, as it cannot make me love you one jot the more than I do at the present moment; when I would give worlds, were I poffested of them, but for a sight of the hem of your gown, or the hand of my dear little Harriet.
You
esta
116

You must not stay longer where
I will next week Send Sam
you are
with cash to pay your debts, and conduct you to him who is most affectionately yours.

HENRY
How different was this from any of his former letters! It breathed such an air of levity as shocked my very soul. I now too plainly Saw my situation 5 yet could not resolve to hate him who was the author of my misery. Some times I resolved never to See him more, and to put an
end to my life; but the sight of my
could instantly banish that thought. At other times 1 even made excuses for him, Such as his
dependence
  HJ
dependence on the Savour of his Uncle; at whose death, I was still willing to hope, that he would marry me in the face of the world in
the mean time, Secure as I then thought myself in his affedfions, I resoived to hury myself in obscurity until he Should be at liberty to do me justice. 1 wrote to him, and forgave him : at the fiime time I conjured him not to forsake me and his little one, and that I would submitto anything whilst he continued to love me.
At the time he had appointed, the Servant arrived tt) condudf me to England. I forgot all my wrongs in the joy bf^mhe more meeting with my husband, for I could not bring my mind to think that he was not So in reality.
In
but ill agreed
ilb
*
In three drays from our Setting out
I arrived Safe in London, and was
\ •
conduced to a very elegant Small house, in one of the new streets at the back of Portman Square. This had been fitted up for niy reception, and no expense Spared to make it convenient: which with henry’s complaint of want of money, though still it was a proof of his unabated regard for me.
I had not been more than an hour in the house, when a loud rap informed me that my Henry was at the door. I flew downstairs, and almost fainted in his arms. He cari ried me upstairs, and I forgot that ever I had been unhappy, or that ever 1 had been deceived.
- For twelve months I continued in
this house. I had numberless causes
of

no
of complaint against Henry during this time. I Saw him but Seldom, and that at Short intervals.
One day a gentleman came in a carriage to my door, inquired for me, and, was Shown into the parlour. He Said, that he must beg forgive
t
ness for his intrusion, but that he
had Something to communicate, that he was asraid to Speak, unless astured of my sorgiveness. I Said it was impossible for me to grant a pardon, unless I knew the extent of the. fault. He Said, of that he could not be a judge j, but, as there was nothing Severe in my countenance, he would trust to my lenity. He added, that on the last night he had been in company where my name was mentioned, not in the most respeoful manner, which led him to think that
I did

2 20
I did not meet with treatment Such as he thought I merited; that he had
come, if his proposals met my approbation, to osfer me his protection,
and a Situation much Superior to that in which he now Saw mei
had let him proceed thus Sar, be cause indignation and gries prevented me from the use osspeech. As Soon
as I was able, I begged him to leave my house instantly, nor ever dare again to insult me with his company. That if I did not value my hushand’s lise, much dearer than my own, he Should not go unpunioied for this unmanly in Suit.
#
At the mention of my Husband, he actually burst out into a violent fit of laughter. Come, come, my lovely woman, said he, you are too
good for the wretch whom you dig
n i tithe

 . I 21
I
nisy by the title of Husband. I
heard him last night offer you to the first friend who would take you osss his hands. You, he Said, was too Sentimental, and that he did not want a preceptor. At the Same time
he gave you credit for qualities that stamped him, in my opinion, for the veriest rascal existing, to desert fb much excellence. This, Madam, .was the occasion of my visit, which perhaps you may reflect on at your leisure : at present I will not intrude. I See that you are too much interested in the villain who has deceived you, to attend to anything at present.
Here he went out of the room, leaving a card with Mary, saying,
that he wiffied to prove himself my sincere friend, and desired that [
VOL. III
G
j
would
122
would Send to him when I wished to See him.
Every shadow of peace was now fled from my breast for ever. Whilst in postestion of the seeming affections of Henry, I had even pasted by the shame he had reduced me to; but now I had no doubt but he .hated me, and I had nothing left but grief. How did I then wish for the arms of a fond Father, into which I might fly to hide me from the world, and from even my own thoughts. He was dead, and his death hastened by my disobedience. My mind was wrapped in a labyrinth of complicated wretchedness, when a rap at the door announced the cause of all my Sorrow. He came into the room, with the utmost gaiety. What! in tears Emilia, said he, you will Spoil
your
  i23
your beauty; what is the matter? You, Sir, may well Sear my loss of beauty, when it is nightly the Subject of your wanton mirth at taverns, and is offered to every wanton rake
i
in town. I don’t know what you mean, child : explain, explain. I then told him of the visit I had had, and the conversation that had pafised: after which he Said, that this was a stale trick, practised very frequently by men, when they wanted to rob each other of their mistreffes. At this
y
word I burst into tears. Henry, Said I, you once led me to believe that I was your wife; have you forgot that you did So, that you dare insult me with any other title? No, my angel. Said he, I am speaking of the conduct of others •; you are totally out of the
question. But I cannot help, you
G z know.
124
know. Other people mistaking your Situation, as it is understood here in town that I am a single man. It was not necest'ary for much argument to convince me of what I most ardently wished to believe, that I had still postestion of the heart of Henry. He promised me to chastise the wretch who had dared to presume to affront me; and it was with the utmost difficulty I could prevail on him not to Send a challenge instantly.
When he left me, I endeavoured to |
1
compose myself; but that was im postible. The unprotected situation of myself and child, every other moment, rose to my view. Yet it was impostible to fix on any plan that could brighten our present prospects. This pasted on many months, I Saw Henry less frequently than before,
but
Tim  ,
125
but he alleged, as an excuse, that his attendance on his Uncle, who was now in a very bad Slate of health, rendered his absence absolutelj neces siry, I knew his dependant state, and though I mourned our Separation, I was obliged to allow the propriety of henry’s condu<fl. At length, I read in the news papers, that a treaty of marriage was on Soot, between Henry and the daughter of a peer, whose name was mentioned. He was not at that time in town. I wrote to him in a state of distradlion. I begged to know the worst directly, or that I would come down to Bath, wait on Lord R -- -- -- --,
-- --, and inform
him of our marriage directly : when 1 received for answer the following letter..
G 3
126  '
HENRY TO EMILIA.
I DID not expect a letter of th reats from you j but you are at liberty, whenever you please, to wait on my Uncle. He is too well acquainted wtth the follies to which youth are liable, not to make allowances for mine; and, whilst I continue not to counteract his' designs, I have nothing to fear from the malice of a foolish woman. As to my intention of marriage, which, you Say, you read in the papers, be as fured I do not make my actions so public as to announce them to the world in news papers,
yours,
HENRY.
I was
  i2y
. /
I was no longer to be amused
The mask was thrown off, and I did
%
not Scruple to pronounce the object of my adoration a most consummate villain. I wept incessantly over my child, who was becomethe in bocent victim of her mother’s credulity, and looked forward to the time when we Should be abandoned to our fate.
About a week after,. I had been with Harriet to. walk in the Park, about ten o’clock, in pasting Su george’s church in our way home, I Saw a great crowd of people assembled round the door, which, upon inquiry, I found, was to See a cou pie, who were then in the church, get into the carriage, which was a most Splendid one, and waited to receive them after the ceremony. The
Child
G 4
128
Child was busied in admiring the painting on the coach and the finery of the horses, when the church door opened, and the coachman was ordered to get ready, I remained where
I was, and Saw Lord R
come
out first. This threw me into an
universal tremor. But judge my
situation, when the next person was
Henry leading his bride. At this I
gave a violent Scream, and selhiseless
on the pavement. Mary, who had
the Child in her arms. Said, that on
Seeing me Sail, Harriet, who knew
her Father, called out Pappa, Pappa,
He looked round and was pale as
asties. ^ They drove oss, unmindsul
•/ ^
of what became of me : nor did I know anything until I found myself in bed in my own house, with, iny faithful Servant weeping, over me.
I was
  129
I was in that state that I hardly Selt anything. A stupor had Seized me; out of which Mary had used ^ all her endeavours to rouse me. The first thing that caught my attention, was my child: and I cried, Oh!! who will protedfc thee? The little innocent replied, Pappa will come Soon, Mamma, don’t cry; I Saw him this morning. This threw me into an agony of indescribable horror. About five, the same afternoon, I received the following letter from Lord'
R
TO MISS F IT Z ALLEYN Ei
MADAM,
_ *
I WAS greatly shocked, this morning, at the impropriety of your con dust, which I shall not now comment
G 5
upon


136 thg   LIRH.
upon
Your own indiscretion must
be a Sufficient Subject of distress at the present moment.
You will find, accompanying this, a bond for the annual payment of one hundred pounds, which you will receive quarterly, as Soon as you acquaint
i
me with your place of residence in any part of the country you shall make choice of, on condition that you never write to, or attempt to See my. Nephew again. This may appear Severe, but, had you reflected a moment before you determined on the rash step you took, you must have been certain that this crisis would one day arrive. It was impost! ble to fuppose that a young man, like Henry, postestted of an independent fortune of ten thousand pounds a year, would never marry.
I sin
V
 . I jr
I sincerely pity your misfortune from the regard I have ever had for
your respedted parents; and which I was willing to have extended to you also, had you not Seduced my Nephew from his duty when you: forgot your own..
0
I am, Madam,
your’s,
R

I fell into a kind of filent melancholy, which, for Some weeks, in tirely took poffefiion of me. At length I was led to confider what eourse I should take in my helpless
state.. I would have returned the
%
-- -- - Sent me, and have
bond Lord R -- -- -- --
rather begged my bread than accept
g6
It
13
2
it, had it not been for my Harriet, She must not want whatever became
of me. Her cruel Father I could not expect to protect her, after the injuries I had Suffered at his hands,
I therefore determined to Sell off my household furniture; and, with the money that this would produce, go and hide my head in a distant part of Yorkshire, at a village about twenty miles from the Spot where I had lived in peace and happiness, beneath the roof of an affectionate Father.
My poor Mary, to make up the measure of my woe, was taken ill of a fever, which had been brought on by her constant attendance on me. She did not Survive the malignity of the disorder, but was taken off
i
the ninth day of her illness.
I now
 . i33
• ■*
I now found myself without a friend in the whole world, with a broken heart, and a broken constitution. This determined me to hasten my departure from a scene I hardly dared to think upon.
The sale of my furniture brought me two hundred and fifty pounds, and I prepared, ' with my infant, to leave London and Seek refuge in ob scurity.
I had got thus, far on my journey when illness prevented me from proceeding, and your ladyship’s humanity, which, like that of our heavenly Father, falls indiscriminately on the guilty and the innocent, first convinced me that goodness still had existence on earth.
I am Sure of your ladyship’s pity, though I can never hope to be honoured
154


noured So far as to be admitted again
to your presence.
Death has now lost half its terrors,
Since you have promised my child
your protection. Shame may force
her Father to do justice to her when
I Shall no longer feel his injuries,
I am, my Lady,
your ever obliged.

EMILIA FITZALLEYNE.
/*
You cannot be so unconscionable,
after my transcribing the Sad story of
Emilia, to expect me to write a single
line more than
ANNE WESTBURY.


  i35.
MISS EMMA VERNON
T O
LADY DE GREY.
It
w
gives me inexprefiible pleasure
to hear that my sister was arrived Safe in town. We have So lately experienced Such innumerable distreffes,
4
that I am grown very timorous of late, and am apprehensive of danger, where, to others, there would not appear to be the Smallest foundation. I am grown quite melancholy of late. The face of everything is changed.
Harewood, once the seat of peace
»
and joy, now wears a sombre appearance. The Hall deserted— —
Place
\
I 6

Place nearly in the Same state — and only mysels and my Father left at the Grove. The old turrets of Raby Castle, Seen at no great distance, Seem to make up the general gloom. I cannot walk or ride out without
my ideas presenting me with the
\
image of Some lost or absent friend. But still I find the want of your so ciety is my greatest cause of melancholy. Not a room that I enter but
reminds me of the hours we have pasted delightfully together; hours
that are never to be recalled.
But why should I endeavour to cast a gloom over you, who have suffered sufficiently from bad Spirits, and who should now endeavour to regain tranquillity of mind.
It would have made me extremely happy, had it been poshble for me
to
  137
to have made the journey along with you and my Brother. It certainly was most prudent that Charles Should accompany you; and it would not have been right that my Father should have been lest wholly alone Indeed, my dear Laura, I See every day Some alteration in him for the worse. Fie has never been well since your fatal union with Sir James de Grey, whose untimely end he never ceases to deplore.
The other evening, as we were Sitting by the fire, after dinner, my Father Said, Emma, I want to ask you a question, and I expect you to answer me truly. Sir, replied I, you may depend on it 1 will, if in my power. — Well, then, do you think Laura has still a partiality to that young man — Neville I mean? Did
she
138
She ever Speak of him to you before
her departure for London? — Never, Sir. As to her sentiments with regard to Mr. Neville, it is impossible for me to determine. But, should she, my dear Sir, find it impossible to erase his image from her breast, I am persuaded that you would not oppose an union with Mr. Neville, provided that his conduct is as irreproachable at it was when he left the Grove. — And Vvshat, Emma, think you, should have altered my opinion with regard to the propriety of uni ting my daughter to the fon of a beggar? For ought I know to the contrary, Neville may have no better
Nay, now, my dear Sir, excuse me for contradicting you; but a beggar never could have left So valuable a deposit as Mr. Raymond re
\

origin.
  i39
ceived with Theodore. Well, well. Said he, perhaps I am wrong in this instance; but of this I am certain, that Laura will never marry him with my cpnsent.
I was obliged to be filent, well knowing that to perfist would but injure the cause I wished to Serve.
I could not get him into a good
/
humour the whole evening.
You don’t know how happy I was made the next morning, by the arrival of the news papers, wherein is mentioned the particular manner in which Theodore has signalised himself at Gibraltar; though this was in Some measure damped by the uncertainty of his situation at Algiers. I hope you are not still in suspence, as I
well know that your Sensibility will *
be
140
%
be strained to its utmost point oa this occasion
I Sat down to the breakfast table with the paper in my hand, ready to present it to my Father on his coming in. I did So, and sat with the utmost impatience, watching his eye through every line, until he came to that paragraph where Mr. Neville was mentioned; which, when he read, he Said, pstia! — What is that. Sir, Said I ^ Nothing, nothing, replied he. This disappointed me,
b
for I wanted to Set aside his unnatural prejudice against a youth who had never given him the Smallest cause of offence. — Did you see. Sir, how very gallantly Theodore has behaved?
He has profited by the lessons you used to give him before he entered
into
* • ■

• \
fhe  . i41
into the army. I thought if I could
make him in any degree instrumental to the act, he might be brought to applaud the action. Aye, aye. Said he, I See that he has done his duty. Did you ever suspect him of cowardice, that you Seem So surprised??
Saw that it was impossible to counteract the natural peevissinefs of his disposition on this Subject : I Say on this Subject, because I never Saw him in my life obstinate but on this one point.
If you are too much engaged to write at present, desire Charles to have pity on me, and give me all the news. I (hall long for the return of Spring, as it will be a prelude to the return of my Sister.
My
142
My Father desires me to Say, that he received yours with much pleasure, and will answer it very Soon,
I am,
My dear Laura,
Yours affectionately.
EMMA VERNON.
  i43
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY
T O
/
CHARLES VERNON.
Avignon.
DEAR CHARLES,
AVING waited with all the
patience that I am posfefled of, in
hopes that a rainy afternoon, or Some
such agreeable thing, would produce
♦
me a letter. I am now reduced to the necessity of requesting you to recollect that I am in existence, and wish to hear that you are in the Same.
I think, Vernon, that I am grown more and more indolent than ever.
'4
don’t you wonder then how I bear
4- the
144  ,
the fatigue of writing my own letters? If you do, I will Soon answer
you
It is because I don’t chuse
every one to be made acquainted with my follies. I believe I am guilty of Some little improprieties. I can’t bear to jog trot on like the rest of the stupid world. No I I like variety. If I went to anyplace ten different times, I would come and go by ten different roads : going always the same way is like a horse in a mill.
1 have been Spending my time like an emperor here. One thing you will wonder at, which is, that the lovely susan is still my empress. She reigns Supreme: she possesses just that versatility of character that I admire;

Is everything by starts, but nothing long; ”
She
  14^
She is almost on the point of ruin, I believe, for she has actually got a kind of a promise of marriage out of me. This was done in one of my repentant humours, when I determined to do penance in the shape of an husband. Now, if the jade keeps me to my word, what’s the odds but I am tired of her in half a year? ’faith it “is necessary that I marry, to keep her within bounds; for she
is as extravagant as Polly M......,
who lives here with the Duke of R — — and who trims her carpets and chairs with point lace, and hangs her bells with gold chains.
I have heard‘people talk of going to she Continent to Save money; but, according to my general plan, I have reversed this with a vengeance : for I have almost drawn every guinea out
VOL. III
H
of
146
of my steward’s purse, and yet my own is empty also.
Well, I believe I stiall marry and reform. There is room Sufficient, I
hear you say. Well, i’ll furprise you all yet. I don’t despair of being held out as a pattern of propriety. The contrast will have a fine ested.
I wish when you write you would
inform me if Lady Wentworth is at
0
Harewood. I don’t want one syl lable more on the Subject: I enjoin you not to write one.
What are you about? Is Lady de Grey mourning yet for her Baronet, or is stie sighing for her Soldier I
congratulate her on his rising fame: report says that he has done wonders. What will not Love inspire?? makes cowards heroes, and heroes
cowards: not that 1 allude at all to
Neville
  14^
Neville in this last Sentence, for I was certain that he would prove himself a brave fellow.
The lovely susan is at my elbow. She desires me to leave Scribbling,
and attend her. As resistance is not
0
my forte I obey.
Yours,
WILLIAM JERSEY

LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER.
Have just received your letter of thanks for the story of Emilia; and I will now give you the remainder of her history; that is, what happened since she confided her Situation to me.
On reading what she had written I could not help blaming her; yet, at the same time, I could not with
i
hold.my pity and forgiveness. What a dreadful and a hopeless Situation was hers! What a monster was the man in whoni she had placed her hopes of happiness 1 Vanity, I have
not
. • *■
  j^g
not the least doubt, first prompted her to listen to her (hameless Seducer, I have followed her in idea through each stage of her story, and only wonder that so weak a frame did not fink under Such a weight of woes.
As Soon as I had read them I returned her the letters which she re quested to have returned as soon as read; at the same time assuring her that her confidence had not done her the smallest injury in my opinion; for that if she would give me leave I would call on her in the morning, in order to consult with her what could be done towards her future comfort. — I could not unde Tnd, if she had Sold the furniture of her house, as she mentioned that she had, how it was possible she Should be at an inn without money; and 1 de
h3
termined
/■
150
termined to Satisfy myself in the morning. Accordingly, Soon after breakfast, I went to call on her. She was not able to rise, but looked most beautifully. On my entrance she hid her face with her handkerchief.
As Soon as stie could Speak for tears, She Said, “How Shall I express the
sense I have of my obligations to your Ladyship? I did not think that there was any heart that could pity my Sufferings, which will Soon come to an end.” — Say not So, Madam, replied I, I hope to be able to restore you to health and to happiness. She shook her head — I then ashed her in whose hands she had trusted her money : to which she answered, I did not trust it to any one: it is at present in my pocket book.
I then
  II
I then understood, that Mrs. Benson, the woman of the inn, had been deceived into a Supposition that she had no money, by her Servants having found none in her pockets, and having no idea that she could be possessed of a bank note. I then ad vised her not to think of proceeding into Yorkshire at present j but to
D
allow me to get her a lodging near the Castle until her health should be
restored
I told her that I was the
Lady Bountiful of the village, and could prescribe Some restorative I was certain. To this she thankfully consented, and I as cordially went about the bufiness. I Soon procured what L wanted.
Our park keeper had two very tolerable apartments, into which I removed Emilia on that very ni ghf.
h4
wrapped
152

■f
wrapped up in blankets. I never was So busy in my whole life; and in the midst of my bustle, came down St. Auban and his Ihooting party. I could have killed them all for disturbing me. I had just vowed an eternal enmity to the Sex, and was hardly commonly civil to my brother’s visitors: which I suppose drove them away at the end of the first week.
During this time I made my daily visits to the lodge, and was much pleased to find my patient making Some progress towards recovery. At the end of a fortnight She walked half the length of the Shrubbery with me. I was So cautious and So mysterious, that St. Auban Said I had gotten a lover in dilguife; and actually threatened me to Spread the report about town, if I did not convince


vince him to the contray, by introducing him to the fair incognita. This I have dared him to do.
When I left the Castle, I had the satisfaction to leave Emilia able to walkabout the gardens with her little comforter. Lnever Saw Such attention in So young a child. You would be greatly, delighted to see how cai'e fully stie watches the clock, that her mother may be pundual in. taking her draughts.
Emilia intends pursuing her first plan of going into Yorkshire, about twenty miles from where, her Father lived.
. She has' an Aunt rather in indigent circumstances, w’ith whom she proposes to reside as a widow: the income Lord R — — proposes to allow her, will Support her,, and edu
>
H 5
cater
1^4  .
cate her child. I approve of her plan : there is much propriety in it. By this time She is on her way to
put it in execution.
I shall receive
a line as Soon as she is at all fettled.
I wish to hear how your love af
•/
goes on with Squire Richard. For the other Squire, I am not yet let into the Secret, Well, all in good time.
I have been quite a rake gallanting about with Lady de Grey. I slant attend her any more, i’ll promise her, for my beaux begin to desert me; and that is insufferable, and what no woman can bear from nineteen to ninety. Adieu,
Ever your’s.
ANNE WESTBURY.
THE   LTTE, 155

LADY DE GREY
T O
MISS EMMA VERNON.
Yo

Fitzroy Street
\
letter, my dear Emma, gave me an equal mixture of pleasure and pain : the first, to bear that
r
you were well, and that your affection for your Sister was as warm as in our infancy; the latter Senlation was caused by the information it contained of our father’s ill health, and of his continued disapprobation of Mr. Neville, for whom, I do not think it any infringement on the delicacy of our Sex, t declare to you, that I entertain
H 6
the
It

the tenderest Sentiments. They were founded on mutual esteem, which each day has rather Served to increase than to diminish. Believe me, that the news of his conduct at Gibraltar has given me the greatest joy j which indeed has met with Some alloy, from the situation into wdfich he is, at present, thrown. I had hoped that this news would lead our Father to think more Savourably of him. I have heard him say, that high birth could not dignify a mean iiefs; but that the meanest Subject might be dignified by an illustrious action. He has forgot this Sentiment, I find, in order to Support his family pride, with regard to poor Theodore. I am Sorry to hear his declaration, with regard to his refusal of his consent to our union,
1v
as

  i57
as I would not willingly be a cause ()S uneasiness to him: I have given Sufficient proof how much I coukl Sacrifice to his quiet, for this Sentiment to be doubted. Whether I Shall continue in the same opinion, if he perfists in his obstinacy, I cannot yet determine. 1 thank you for the interest you have taken in the feelings of your Sister, and I hope that you will never, for a moment, endure the agony of mincl which I have Suffered during the last two years of my life. Charles desires me to say, that he is not fit for the talk you have assigned him, that of writing all the news of London; besides, he is, at present, employing his pen upon a very worthless subject.. mean Sir William Jersey, who is actually on the point of completing ' his
158
his own ruin by marrying Lady susan Strangeway s. I have written this unwelcome piece of news to miss Wentworth, as She desired to be informed of everything we knew relating to that profligate creature. If I had been injured' as much as that fanqily has been by his unprincipled conduct, I should rather request of my friends never to repeat his name, than desire to be made acquainted with all his actions. Lady Wentworth I know to be one of the best of women; and that her anxiety about him proceeds from a good motive, I am certain. Charles is endeavouring to prevail on Sir William to come to England. He thinks it possible to prevent the match were he in town. I never think of him with any patience; and now that my
angel
  1
angel friend, Jemima, no longer Suffers from his conduct,, am carelesh of what becomes of him.
Lady Anne Westbury is in town, and contrives to Spend much of her time with me. Her charming Spirits assist in Supporting mine, wshich were never very strong, but are now so very weak that the Smallest trifle Sets me in agitation. Her Ladyship is on the point of leaving town in a few days, in order to pay a visit to the Duchess of Mortimer, whole daughter. Lady Madelina, I very much admire, from the character given of her by Lady Anne. She promises to make us frieiids on her return,
I cannot Say that I meet with that amusement in .London that I expected. This is, I believe, not
owing
lo  .
owing to the want of attradlion in the place, but rather to the want of that peace of mind, which could render a cottage happy, and without which a palace would be dreary. I am going this evening to the play, So that, at present, I have no more time for Scribbling; but will resume my pen very soon. In the meantime, I send you a very affecting story, which I have taken a copy of before Lady Anne Sent it into Derbyshire. You will join with me in wishing the wretch, who has injured Emilia, may meet with punishment adequate to his crime. I promise myself the pleasure of your Society next winter, and remain,
your’s' affedlionately, LAURA DE GREY

ii
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND lascellesh
Algiers.
It is even So, Edmund. Yourfriend,
who in his last threatened to perform wonders, has been taken and led a captive to this place. I should not write thus pleasantly were not my
chains very light. I wear those with which I left my country, with infinitely more pain, nor do I know when they will be lightened; whilst
these I am in hopes very soon to shake off.
The English vice-consul here has contrived to render my situation very
tolerable.
162
* > tolerable. Besides this, I yesterday
met with an English gentleman, who is a resident here, and a great favourite of the Dey. He asked me how I came to Algiers, from whence I came, and many more questions; but he was Seen Speaking to me, and Sent for in haste away, but not until he had appointed a place where I should meet him, as, he Says, he has dispatches to Send to England; and that if I can effetst my escape, should
I not be released directly, he will give me, upon receipt of their Safe arrival in London, what will be considered in that country as a very handsome present. — So for freedom, Edmund, I shall turn post man, or carrier. I wait to See this gentleman with impatience. There appeared fornething like Sensibility
about
  163
about his countenance. Misfortune has waved her wand over him, I am certain.
-- h, whom I
I ashed Mr. D
mentioned as vice-consul, who this gentleman was, as it was raher a wonder to See an Englishman living amongst staves, and that Seemingly his own choice. He Said, that the gentleman was in the country before he came into it; that he was Said to have performed Some Secret Service, either for the Dey or the Grand sig nior, for which he had been loaded with riches, but that he had been obliged to marry a daughter of the dey’s, who, with her attendants, was Set as a kind of Spy over him; and that it would be instant death for any one to attempt his escape. The Dey has a Superstitious notion, that
I
no
164
no evil can befall him while this man is near him. Nay, Said he, I know
not, if it be discovered that you, as an,
4
Englishman, even meet him in Secret, but you may be punished most Severely. However, I think it my duty to give you this caution. Notwithstanding this, I have determined to keep my appointment
You will begin to think me an infidel in love, when I can write So much and never inquire about Laura. She is still my Laura, whatever name she may have usurped. It is not be cause I have one jot the less affection for her. No! I wish not to write one word, after writing her name, on any other Subject. I certainly should not; and, therefore, if I had not Said a few words about myself at first, you would have taken me for a
madman.
  ic
madman. Is she well? How does
file look? Whom does she associate
♦
with Do you think that she ever wasts a Sigh to the hapless Theodore?
V
Believe me, lascelles, I would never revisit the shores of Britain, did I not hope to find Laura single, and rejoiced at my return. There is vanity for you I It is not So, Edmund;
I know her dispofition too well ever
to suppose a grain of coquettery in
\
her bosom; and where her heart is once given, there it will rest till it ceases to beat. The belief that I am in possession of this treasure cheats the gloom, and makes me even Smile in captivity.
What pangs has she not endured on my account! incapable of those mean and Sordid views which wholly
engross her father’s mind, she loved
me
l66
4
4
#
me for myself alone. I am not independent enough to make the Same
asiertion, in respect to her, with the same degree of credit, though it be equally true.
I hardly expect to get an answer to all the innumerable questions I
am dispofed to ask.
What a happy fellow are you, Edmund 1 not exposed to the Severities of fortune; and not in love, yet deprived of the lovely object you Sigh to postess.
tomorrow evening I go to meet my countryman, and perhaps to find that there is one who has experienced misery as well as myself. I am quite anxious to know what has brought and fettled him in this country of tyranny and despotism. His heart, I am certain does not beat time to those
acts
3
  167
I
acts that are daily practised here; and it must be restraint, not inclinai

tion, that keeps this man here.
I have an instant opportunity of sending this Scrawl away, therefore I cannot wait the result of my assignation, about which, though with a male, I am very anxious.
Yours,
THEODORE NEVILLE
la
CHARLES VERNON
T O
SIR W
Yo
U are certainly an unaccountable
being, jersey, and to expest from you anything rational, would be to acknowledge one’s Self a total stranger to you. Yet I am inclined to think your last letter was written in jest, just to see how far your friends would give you credit for excentricity of charaster. If you had kept a little within the line, I should have supposed you capable of all you wished me to believe. Marry Lady
Susan Strangeways! Why, is she not
%
yours
4
'i

  169
yours already? and I don’t see any one wishes to take her from you your tranquillity is perfectly undisturbed, and will, in all probability, remain fois you are ever awakened from your present dream, I have not the least doubt but it will be her Ladyship herself who will open your eyes...
Has matrimony then such charms in it, Jersey?? once taught me to think otherwise, even when you was coupled with an angel. Make the comparison, and then go to
-- -- Marry to retrieve your
church. -- --
fortune I and that to a woman who has none, and who, you yourself say, is so extravagant that your fortune cannot supply her I Do just reflect, if but for the novelty of reflection, for one moment.
TOL. iin
I
on
170
on the step you talk of; though I really believe you in jest, or I would write more Seriously, I affure you.
lascelles laughed most immoderately at your Quixote of a letter, 'as he called it; and called me a fool for not Seeing the joke; though, upon my soul, I have not yet found it out.
r
Now to answer your question, whether Lady Wentworth is yet at Harewood. — She is not. That, I presume, is all you wish me to Say on the Subject. You did not mean to introduce your intended bride at the Hall, did you? Or did you mean
V
to write to Lady Wentworth, with whose worth you are not unacquainted, and entreat her forgiveness? If this is your plan, injured as she
has been, excuse me, Jersey, <4don’t
doubt
  lyi,
doubt but she would yet receive you; and if you would put yourself under
t
her guidance, I don’t doubt, deranged as your affairs are, by your own confession, but that she would put you on a plan to retrieve them, without taking a wife in order to effect that purpose.
Perhaps you will think all this advice vastly impertinent You know that I am an impudent fellow, but
mean
well.
Your well-meaning people, I think I hear you say, are my aversion, So prithee write no more, Charles. But I shall not mind you, for if I cannot please, I am determined to tease you, until you write me word that you are come to your senses. Then TH be rational too.

I 2
What
/
'lyz
What is become of Lady Harriet? don’t you intend to marry her too? I am Sure, as you ran away with them both, her Ladyship will resent it if you do not make her the offer.
You are rather out of favour at present amongst the females; but this matrimonial Scheme will, no doubt, fet all to rights. you’ll introduce me, Jersey, to your bride. Adieu.
your’s,
CHARLES VERNON.
  173
LADY MADELINA MORTIMER
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
Thornley Abbey.
I HAVE to thank you for the trouble you have taken in transcribing the Sad story of miss Fitzalleyne. My Mother and myself wept over it until we were really ill. She desires that you will be very particular
s.
in your inquiries about the poor girl, as, is anything happens to her, ihe must insist on providing for the child; for whom, as well as the mother, we are greatly Concerned.
Do hasten your visit to the Abbey, as my Father Says that we have done penance long enough; and, that as Soon as your visit (which is by no
13
means
174 the   lifl\
means to be shortened, for we mean to be very Shylocks as to time, and will have our month, not a tenth part of a Second less) is over, we are to accompany you to the dear City. Speaking of the City puts me in mind of my lover, who will wear himself toasheleton with sighing.
I do believe that this good-natured neighbourly family is the cause of my father’s leaving the country, though he won’t own it, Sooner than was at first intended. He cannot ride out without finding himself pursued by either Father or Son, and the Duchess says, that if he stays much longer in Derbyshire, she expedfs that the females will join in the pursuit.
I am
  175
, I am happy as to one point — Dickey will never commit an act of Suicide, however defperateiy he may be in love, as he frequently tells me tj; iat he isr
In one of our visits to Egginton hall, the conversation happened to turn on books I alked the ladies their opinion of Werter. Oh, certainly answered miss Agnes, Verter is a Sweet book. A Sweet book indeed, replied Dickey! Did not Verter shoot himself for love of a baker’s
/
daughter? No child, replied Mrs, anderson, she was the daughter to a nobleman’s Butler. Oh aye. Said he, as it might be our george’s daughter. He must have been mad that is certain, nobody in their senses would ever have courage to kill themselves, I remember I once fulk’d
/
14
with
176
with my Supper one night for love, didn’t I, mother? but I woudn’t kill myself; no, not for the world — miss Jane ashed me if I didn’t think that Charlotte must be miserable for ever
aer, for fear of his ghost appearing in Some terrible form, because she had lent the pistols for him to kill himself. I replied that the book did not lead one to suppose that
i
Charlotte had any tintlure of Superstition. Oh dear. Lady Madelina,
Said Jane, is that good to prevent
one from feeing Spirits. i’ll send
»
for Some of it the next time we send to the podecary’s. I Said that it had
rather a contrary effecl: which determined her not to meddle with it.
Do not you wonder how I kept my .countenance Sufficiently to answer
Such a question? Arc not you
offended
  i77
offended that any one should sup pose the elegant Charlotte the daughter of Such a creature as Mr. i^n dersoffs Butler, who is like the rest of that illustrious family, not in poffeshon of two ideas?
I dare not change my dress wheii we either receive, or return their visits; for if I do, the next morning is Sure to produce a note requesting the favour of a pattern of my cap, or gown, or anything that they never Saw before. My Mother actually made the housekeeper lend her a cap in order to see if Mrs. an derson would borrow that too: which she actually did, declaring that no one had taste but my Mother. We have happily got rid of them within these
three days.
15
The
178
The gawky Son of a Magistrate, of the next town to us, has luckily fallen in love with miss Jane, and
the family have been taken up with this great event. They have received Mr. burgcss, the name of the gentleman, in great state. It is the talk amongst the Servants that the
match will be concluded diretstly, and that Master Richard and me are to be united at the Same time. Perhaps you may be time enough to dance at my wedding, as you kindly offered me.
This may be the last time that ever I can Subscribe myself,
Yours,
MADELINA MORTIMER.
  i79
EDMUND LASCELLES
T O
CHARLES VERNON.
Clarges Street
Believe you and I are never to meet, but are ever to play at cross' purposes. As Soon as you come to town, I leave it: I no Sooner return, than you march off.
So I have raised your curiosity as to the how came I to go to an horse race. To throw my lafl Jiake, Vernon; and I have actually loji that. This will Surprise you the more, as you declared it as your opinion, that
Not to keep you longer in suspence, it is my heart that I have lost.
« I
16 Mortimer
I was no gamester.
lo THE 1.ABYRINTHS OF LIFE.
I
Mortimer has won it; and her eyes’
have told me that she will not re
#
it., No female can bear an
heartless man, therefore I have re
/
the loan of her’s to Supply its place. She has not actually denied me, Sq that I have hopes.
The Duke has given me an invitation to Thornly Abbey for a fortnight, to shoot with him: he also promised me, as an inducement, that I should meet Lady Anne west bury. I should have accepted his offer, had Lady Anne been out of existence.
I find my health much better, and am willing to ascribe this change to

Madelina
Love has
the Same influence over the mind, that the fun has over the body : it animates and raises us poor mortals
until
  is^i
until we believe the objed we adore to be an angel, and naturally aim at being thought the Same by the dear
> girl in return.
I am really shocked at what you write concerning jersey, of whom I have altered my opinion. I did not
9
think him capable of the adfion of which he has been guilty. I have not written to him lately, being quite disgusted with his character.
As I hope soon to quit a single life, I do not mean, Vernon, to continue my correspondence. I should
blush to introduce Such a man to
*
my wife. It would Seem like an approbation of his conduct. This may be too Severe. I think not. Jersey did ^pld a very high place in my esteem, and I feel greatly for his mistaken ideas of happiness. Would
the
i82
♦
the Duke of Mortimer give hte daughter to the avowed friend of Sir William jersey? No; I am Sure not Lady jersey was all sweetness: : the most beautiful form were added
the most engaging manners. She never Spoke but to praise. Envy and malice were strangers to her breast.
Her only fault, if ever She had one, was her strict attachment to Sir William; even after he had used her must inhumanly. Had (he been my
lister.
jersey or I should
have been out of existence at this moment, I hope you will write to him, and dissuade him from exposing himself farther by a union with that
woman. It is imposhble I should think he can Seriously have formed
Such a resolution.
j
wrongs will, indeed, be avenged by
the
  I
the very wretch who has occasioned her death — You will think me vastly ill humoured, and not write to me
again, is I Say any more on this xub jeo:. Therefore no more of it.
Pray when are you to introduce me to your lister, for whose character I entertain the highest esteem I Poor Neville! I have heard from himself of his captivity, but he does not Seem to Say that he experiences any Severity, nor is he under confine menftk He Seems more anxious about the present state of a certain Lady, and whether Ihe still honours him with her esteem, than about his own situation.
You cannot be indifferent to the fate of Theodore more than myself. Our happiest days, wshen at School and college, were Spent toge there. My Mother Speaks of you
both
184
both as children of her family, and regrets much the cause of yours and neville’s estrangement. I heard his conduct highly applauded in a large company of gentlemen where I dined a few days ago, by an Officer just arrived from Gibraltar with dispatches.
I Shall be in town next Thursday, and I will then call in Fitzroy Street, in hopes that we may once more meet in this world.
Yours,
EDMUND LASCELLES.
  I 8^
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY
T O
CHARLES VERNON.
X /on T write to me again, Vernon, at this cursed place, I shall have left it before your letter can arrive, — I detest myself and all the
world, and find too late that I am the veriest scoundrel in existence.
Were I not a coward, I should not now be able to tell you that the earth does not bear so miserable a wretch as myself. I have murdered an angel, whose matchless virtues are now harrowing up my very soul. I will instantly sty to London, or anywhere, to get a moments respite from
thought.
l86
thought. Why did not you shoot
me when I refused to return to England with you? How many misei> able hours would you have Spared me by this act of justice? 1 can write no more. Expect me, perhaps, as Soon as my letter.
JERSEY.
\

187
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
Portman Square,
AM arrived in town, and request that you will call here directly, as I am really very ill, or I would wait on you. The state of my mind, for Some days past, has brought on a
fever. Instant madness would have
«
been the cafe, if 1 had felt as I ought, Jemima, Vernon, accompanies me through each room of my house, her image is ever before me, mjured
as (he was. Oh God! that I Should
✓
abandon Such a woman for that creature with whose name I will not
w
con
l88
contaminate my pen, after having written that of my wife.
It is fit that I give you a short account of what has produced this so sudden change in my dispofition. You know, I wrote you word that I had given a promise of marriage.
I was weak enough to intimate that I wished to return to England, and
that I was ready to fulfil my promise the very next day, or as soon as possible. To this declaration Lady
Susan made no other reply than Had not you better put your affairs into some train before you think of marriage. Sir William? The last remittance Sent by your Steward, and the last he Said that he could Send, is already gone. Gone, replied I! and to whom pray? I never ordered you to pay it to any one, as far as I
recol
  lo

recollect— — Sir — but as you are, at present, indebted to me more than two thousand pounds, and I did not See the prospetst of my ever being able to pay Major L — - the six hundred
I lost last week — I Sent him what cash I had in part of payment. — This produced Some very high words between us, when her Lady ship hinted at my conduct to Jemima in So gross a manner, that I bid her begone out of my fight: which she immediately did, and wrote me word, that she had no intention to marry a beggar, and therefore desired that her baggage might be Sent to the Hotel de B -- -,
-- --, as she should quit
Avignon the next morning. — I ordered my Servants to deliver her boxes as she desired, not supposing, however, that she meant to put
5 her
igo
her threats into adfual execution. I shut myself up in my own chamber for that night, but, fool that I was, never went to bed. I had written a letter requesting her to return in the morning, which, when my Servant went to deliver, he was informed that Lady susan was that morning married to Major L -- --,
-- --, and that they
had Set off for Paris two hours ago.
I could not Speak for rage for Some time : at last I ordered horses and
determined to pursue them. Fortunately for me, I began to reflect on the infamy of the woman I had just lost. The image of Jemima arose to my view, arrayed in all her fpot less innocence, and I Shrunk back with horror from myself. That very day your friendly letter arrived to confirm me in my resolution of
think
  II
thinking no more of So worthless a creature. And I now wonder how it was possible I could have continued So long a dupe to her arts. She took with her all my ready money, and left a draught behind her for immediate payment of sixteen hundred, which She made out that I was still indebted to her. That I did not
pay, indeed 1 could not. I will not
«
tell you how deeply 1 am involved.
This Major L — —, with whom She has acted in concert, has robbed me of many considerable Sums, under pretence of making little family parties, in order to prevent my going into public gaming houses: where 1 could not have been cheated more. Thus, under the Semblance of affection, have 1 been robbed of every comfort. That I deserve punishment
192
menti allow; but I cannot Submit to it patiently. My own feelings are too Severe at the present moment to allow me to say more than that I impatiently expect you.
Yours,
JERSEY,


  193
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
I SHOULD hold myself guilty of
the highest mark of ingratitude, did I not embrace the earliest opportunity of acquainting your Ladyship, that 1 arrived Safely at my aunt’s about three days ago. I was obliged to make but short stages, on account of my own weak state. My little Harriet bore the journey very well. She wept much on taking leave'at the Abbey, and would not quit the place until she had been lifted up to kiss your picture. Poor child, she knows not, as yet, the obligations
VOL, HI,
K
she
194
She owes to your Ladyship, who was the first to Speak com Sort to her mother when she was finking under a broken heart; and that it was your conversation that first inspired me with the hope that I might be forgiven in the world to come, whatever Severities I might endure in this.
’tis hard that man should be less forgiving than God. In this world misfortunes and crimes are punished alike. For I am led to think, that
had many an unfortunate female (and
%
many, 1 fear, there are who have been deceived, like myself, by the semblance of truth and honour) but a friend like your Ladyship, who could distinguish betwixt vice and
p
misfortune, they might return again,
# ^
if not as ornaments, at least as useful members of society.
My
  i95
My Aunt has consented to receive and let me pafs for a widow. In this calm retreat I mean to remain, and endeavour, by my attention to my child, to expiate my faults; never ceasing to; pray for heaven’s choicest blesfings on the head of my noble protectrefs,
I have the honour to be.
Madam,
N '
Your ladyship’s most obliged.
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE.
K 2
ip
HORATIA WENTWORTH
< * J A
T O
** r
LADY DE GREY
We
are greatly indebted to your
Ladyship for many letters that are yet, owing to rny mother’s indispo fition, unanswered. The information contained In your last has greatly
us. Surely, Sir William can never think of marrying that woman. My Mother has written to him on the Subject, as she would not wish to see his total ruin, which must follow Such a step.
I am Sure that you will be pleased to hear, that we still entertain our prejudice in favour of Harewood, and
3 that
  igj
that my Mother means to return thither Soon in the Spring.
Evans, Sir william’s steward, wrote us word, that his Master had been obliged to mortgage the estate in Berkshire, and that he had written to him on the Subject of offering the one in Somersetshire to Sale.
i •
This is become abfblutely necessary through his dreadsul extravagance. What a reverse of fortune I When he married Jemima, he was in the possession of four thousand per annum, clear of all encumbrances; and, at the prcsent time, I fear, if his affairs were wound up, he would not be possessed of as many hundreds. We can only pity him, and pray that Heaven may restore him to a Sense of his situation, ere it be too late. Should anything transpire relative
K 3
to
I

to him, we beg you not to be un mindsul of us, and that you will give us intelligence. This I am Sure you will do, well knowing the anxiety of Lady wentworth’s disposition, which, though exercised, on the present occasion, on an unworthy object, is not the kfs amiable on her part. ^ ^
You know not with what delight I Shall return to luy old neighbourhood at Harewood, 1 frequently, in idea, walk in the grove that fronts your house, where we have passed many delightful hours. Perhaps they are not all fled, but may yet be renewed with additional pleasure from this Separation.' I know hut of one cause that forbids this expedation, I will not write longer on melancholy Subjects, or I Shall be an unwelcome
 ' 199
•' r
welcome correspondent, which would grieve me much. We have an excellent Society here, as, I believe, I
besore informed you. Whenever my
_ «
Mother quits this place she means to sell it, that she may never have an inducement to leave her old friends gain.
Lady C
— mid her amiable Son, whom your are acquainted witi), are our most frequent visitors, and you are very frequently our subjest, Her Ladyship is rather Severe upon your father, whose conduct, relative to you, she always blames.
My Mother bids me tell you, that she loves you as her own child, and that your virtues will one day be re warded. She begs also, that you will inquire after Lady Anne Westbury, and tell us if her Ladylliip is well.
K 4
and
200
and what fly is about. In short, send us all the news; for what is quite old with you, will be new to us here, who have only books and music to employ us. Adieu, my amiable friend.
yours
HOKATIA WENTWORTH.
  201
LADY WENTWORTH
T O
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY.
N the hope that a letter from rne, at this time, may not be unacceptable or disregarded, as formerly, I take up the pen, nor do I mean to dip its point in gall. No! I greatly fear your own reflections will em bitter many days that might have glided happily along.
It was only yesterday that I received the news that you were arrived in England, in ill health. That you have returned alone, I bless God — I would not wish to live
to see you fd wretched as you must
^5
have
±62 Tfiffi labyrinths 6f
/
\
have been, had your intended union' with that wicked woman taken
V
place.
You are still my Soni have shed many tears over your errors, but the remembrance that you were once beloved by my dear Jemima, gives you an interest in my bosom that can never be totally lost.
You had need of a great share of health to enable you to look into the present state of your affairs, which I am informed, are in a very shattered condition. This must not be neglected, or you will very soon find that it is impostible for you to be extricated from absolute misery. My advice is, that you meet me at Harewood next week, when I will
desire my Steward to assist your own,
in
THE  'LIFE.; 203
in order to bring tnatters to a crisis
*
not apply for money to thosh harpies who live upon the distresfes
A ^ JL - ^ ... It
of their fellow creatures.
Should
I *
you be in immediate want of cash,
4^ • •
you may draw upon tne, and I will settle the mode of repayment.
Do not delay coming to hare wood as I have proposed, under the apprehension that I shall meet you with a frovv^n; which,, let me affure you that I shall not. For what is past, I am not unacquainted that perfedfion is not the lot of
human nature; and I have ever
*
bowed in humble Submission to the decrees of heaven. Therefore I shall endeavour to forget your follies, in the hopes that you have renounced them for ever.
K 6 Horatia
204
Horatia desires me to say, that Ihe yet hopes to see you restored to health and peace, in which hope
also joins
Your afiectonate
H. WENTWORTH,


205
SIR WILLIAM JERSEY
T O
LADY WEN.D_WORTH.
DEAR MADAM,
It is not possible to express my
gratitude Sora few lines written to a wretch who, were he as detestable to the world as he is to himself, must be considered as a pest to Society.
Come to Harewood, did your Ladyship say? How is that possible, even astured of your forgiveness? Does not the remains of my Jemima lie there? Can I look on the spot that contains a treasure, the loss of
which
2o6
which I must ever deplore? Am not I a mu
? How can you, good as you are, ever receive into your house the wretch who has plunged a dagger into the bosom of your angel daughter? It is impossible; I cannot See you. Dearly as I prize the blessing of receiving your forgiveness, I cannot come to Harewood to receive it. for giveness! ’tis impossible you can ever See me without horror. I constantly pray for instant madness. It
would hide me from myself s from ressedfions too bitter to be endured. My own house Seems like the vault in which the dear remains of my
Jemima i
her
itombed. Every room image. In the yery
chair in which I am writing has
She
  207
he Sat; nay, perhaps, shed tears for her worthless husband: : which are registered in heaven, where he €an never hope to come. Did She not curse me with her latest breath? She must— — infant too : did he not behold that a victim to, the cruelty of its inhuman Father excuse me, Madam, for the supposition that your angel daughter could violate the purity of her nature So far as to curse even me,
to whom her affection made her a martyr.
As to my affairs, I am indifferent
about them.
No
one can
Suffer
but myself, and who So deserving? Accept my thanks for that goodness which my lise can never repay.
Death alone can relieve me. It is
4
my
\
2o8
✓
my only hope. Whilst 1 have life your kindness will be imprinted on my memory.
I am, Madam,
your’s,

WILLIAM JERSEY.


 . 20q
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
4
LADY DE GREY.
Thornley Abbey,
Arrived at this place late on Sunday evening, ' in high health and Spirits. All the family were in ex pedlation of me for Some hours, and gave me a most hearty welcome.. Lady Madelina looks as lovely as ever. I have found out a Secret that Ihe would not communicate by letter. This is no other than that Mr. las celles is a declared admirer of her Ladyship. A sly little creature; but I will be even with her. I intend to
flirt with him until jealousy obliges
her
210
her to tell me that be is not indifferent to her.
The country begins to wear rather a melancholy appearance. The leaves
are continually falling from the trees, in indication of approaching winter. The country around us is wild and
romantic a little like myself. I only
*' ' '
want a Corydon to turn fhepherdess.
. -4 _ #
I wish I were poetical. Perhaps I may be inspired before I leave Derbyshire : the bold and prominent Scenery which is here exhibited, tends to raise the mind and delight the imagination.
The duchess
Mortimer
the woods resign their leafy ornaments with the greatest Satisfaction. She Says, that the Smoke of dear London has more charms than all
the groves in Christendom, I am
not
in ■
  211
not of her opinion, though I like town very well in its way. It Serves to render the country more delightful. In their seasbn they are both agreeable.
I have not yet' been introduced to the family at Egginton Hall. They dine here tomorrow, when I expect to be highly amused. The Duke says, that he has innumerable obligations to them, for that Lady ma delina and her Mother would have
found many hoiirs hang heavy on their hands, without the andersons Society; and that, consequently, he Should have been requested to Shorten his stay at the Abbey, which would not have been postible for him ta have done; and it would have been a very hard talk for one man to con
212
✓
tend with two females at one time, and living in the Same house.
Mr. lascelles has been here two days before I arrived, and Lady ma delina informs me, that Mr. Richard Anderson is not very well pleated. I wish I could persuade him that he ought to challenge Lafcelles for robbing him of his mistress— — try what can be done, for I dote on a bit
of mischief
>
»
have you been doing since I left you? Sighing for the return of poor Theodore? that he will return Safe, 1 have not the least doubt; and that you will reward him with your fair hand, after all his perils and dangers, I am also certain. Well, he dcterves you; and, now that there is a little money on one fide, it is
no matter on which. I shall not interfere,
  213
terfere, but even allow you to follow your inclination,
I would inquire after that wretch jersey, but I cannot pity him. What
signifies his penitence now? Besides, he did not attempt to reform until he could not help it. If Lady susan had not found out that his purie lacked gold, he would have continued the Same contemptible wretch to the end of his existence.
I am quite out of patience with Lady Wentworth, for thinking of receiving him again. There is such a thing as being too good, I find, though this is the first instance I ever had of it. I do think it an insult to the memory of her Daughter to admit Sir William again into her presence. 1 must dress for dinner, so Adieu,
Ma cheer amie.
ANNE WESTBURY.
14
LADY D E G R E Y
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Fitzroy Street,
What would I not give to be in
poffefiion of Such a continual flow of Spirits as my amiable friend ^
It gave me great pleasure to hear of your arrival at Thornley Abbey, and
also that you found your friends well, particularly Lady Madelina, for whom I entertain a very greatregard, though at present not personally known to her. I was informed of your Secret before your letter arrived; for Mr, lascelles had made Charles the confident of his prepoflteflion in favour of
your

215
%
your Cousin, and my Brother had 'd me of it in confidence, wishing amuse me.
I am not acquainted with Mr. lascelles; but from charles’s cha radier, I am led to think him just
Such a man as the Duke of Mortirher would be happy to see Lady Made lina united to. For the poor Citizen I see nothing but the willow: yet the disappointment will not prove fatal, I will venture to prognosticate.
I am, like the Duchess, happy to see the winter very rapidly advancing, as it will bring tny friends into a nearer circle.
Charles is very inquisitive as to
what company are at the Abbey,
especially male visitors. I Saw that
he was greatly relieved when I told
him, that only his friend Edmund
was
told to
\
2x6
was of the party. Have you any pity, my dear, for the Brother of your friend Laura } who sighs in Secret, nor dares even to reveal hi
#
passion to me, who have Suffered too much myself not to feel^or another. Were that other not my Brother, for whom I have more than sssterly affection. Say hut that he may hope.? Indeed I believe that I shall be your Sister, whether this match takes place or no, for St. Auban has been herd every day Since you left us. was very anxious in his enquiries'at Charles, to know if I had determined on a single life, or if I continued romantically in love with Neville?
♦
I Should not write in Such good Spirits, had I not been this morning making a visit to Mrs. Raymond,
who
He
  217
who Says, that Mr. Raymond Saw a gentleman yesterday, upon Change, who ast'ured him that Theodore had made his escape from Algiers. If So he may Soon arrive in England; tor I will not be prude enough to conceal from you, how very happy the sight of him would make me. It is true, I have still to combat my father’s unaccountable prejudices against him : but I hope they will not be insurmountable. Mrs. Raymond spoke of him in raptures; were stie his own Mother, she could not speak with more parental fondness. Mr. Raymond, too, is a most amiable and worthy character. I have promised to Spend a day with them next week, Mrs. Raymond says, she loves me on theodore’s account as well as my
own.
VOL. Ill,
XV
What
zls
What you Say of Sir William Jer sey is very true, but yet, at the present time, he is a most pitiable objedf. Charles Says, that I should not know him, he is So altered. He has not admitted any company, but my Brother,
since his arrival in town. Indeed, he is now So ill, thjit the phy ficians have ordered him to be kept persedfly quiet, or they Sear his intel ledls will Suffer from the extreme agitation which his mind undergoes.
f
Lady Wentworth has written to him, as she determined, which, indeed, has had a contrary estedt from what she expedfed; for he has been much worse ever since the receipt of her letter. Charles says, that he was present when Sir William read it, and that his agitation was So great as nearly
I to
  219
to produce Suffocation. He wept over it, called Lady Wentworth an ai gel, and execrated his own conduct in terms that would have penetrated the heart of any one pos seffed of the least Sensibility. As
Soon as he was a little recovered,
/
he wrote an answer, and returned it express, as her ladyship’s epistle came to him. Charles Sat by his
part of the
bedside the
greatest
night, which he Spent in talking of our dear Jemima. He has not been out of his bed since, as he has a violent fever, and much danger is apprehended. I have written to Lady Wentworth, acquainting her with the Situation of Sir William; to which, I expect an answer by this day’s posh I shall
L
2
con
220 THE   LIPE.
I
conclude this, by wishing you and your friends every happiness, and
am
9
your’s,
LAURA DE GREY.
A t.

S.S
p - *


. ^
f V.
  221
CHARLES VERNON
T O

LADY WENTWORTH.
MADAM,
Portman Square.
It. is with extreme concern I take
up the pen to acquaint your Lady ihip, that Sir William jersey is pronounced, by his Physician, to be past all hopes of recovery. His Sever has attacked the brain, where it rages with undiminished violence. It is imposhble he can Survive the night, without Some change; which is more to be wished than expected. The Severity of his feelings has, at
length,
4
222

length, overpowered him; and, I greatly Sear, that he will Sail a victim to his own imprudence. 1 know that, however undeserving my friend is, this news will not fail to, afflict you in a very Severe manner. Most happy Shall I. think myself, stiould any favourable Symptoms appear, to Send and acquaint your Ladyship. In the mean time, I shall remain here, and will faithfully execute any orders that you may be pleased to send.
My Sister is here as well as myself,
%
but too much afflicted at the melan
f
chcly state of Sir able to write.
I am,
Your ladyship’s
%
most humble Servant, CHARLES VERNON
William, to be
END OF THE THIRD VOLUME

V •' ■''!•'■•• ■• f- --
'• rv -. - ■ ■...

/
•• •



V ^

•.
I r '. •
, '• t

- 'y -*

. -• <• f

''' ‘ .ro, ' C' ' / '■ A
• k







V t' v'cj -* TAL,. V - ■ V. te t ■- ‘"'C, ' il;;., V ■. ’V: Id.' CC: : .' -
, ‘ .'et '/ •. •,. i. 'j
X *, ' ’ ^ *. V ' N - - V
• • b. 7 ■>• •■; •• • ■
'N‘ ■ O'. ' - V Th’' '' : V N; S, ■ i '■■'c'hb i ‘ ' S''' ’ '



• s,, ',
-•

X



'* * - o ^ • •




V...
Ad.. V •'. .*.


i tv’
♦ * ^ *
* »
* V *
. V TV NN ^ ads S. vs'. v.sn r'y. c'. -■ N ' A' '
'.*• • A' ■. •
•. - y. ■» •.-•
^ S.*S *; V
. w '7 '.* •* ’ •. V, V
-. C

• - * • ‘
* • • •. ’. d


‘ J" • • *
't' L
•. ^. « •
1 ‘


■ 'v '•
'/
'^ * K.
'' '1. • '.
a' '•
•• %

cn h.c"'; .'•'■■•
'' ’* ', Nhc -.

■'•>' .si s ri -’.\-
. ^'•
•, • V., ^ -
•• J.
• ■ w

^ V ‘ •'. ■ • ^ ■' -
•,. '*. • ^ • *
■' V ■ T .■•■'■ \ - ■-■■
- • * •• ..... *
\. •>

< ■; ••..
':. \ i

J .' *•
>. *
V,,,.




vxv


'C
-•.; C :
... \. - •-*., *


, -..
•.. ■».
—. • V •



0- NC
■; aivcv’a: T..D '

‘svi'v


•; * ii.. '.
. *• •.. r"

"* '. : •
*' A.
'S * s *
N.. -

TV V \ - • • - D'. • • — r ^ ' • ' • *^ .' -*^ .' ^ *‘**'?**4c\"j.. „ *. .*
* '.« V .' '.. / • .•'* *N‘ i ^ .' \ •" ' *, A ■ • •* V
ta'’ * '.'->^ V 0 ^ '^' * '♦*••• '*' V C * ' ^ .'•''* * * ’, dv * *. * T
vlvv V v/r; >" v V ^ VA *VV: V 'dvv' -- L r: A^‘A>L
-^; '=^* * C C •'y'n '.f h • ' O. xt'_; ••N^ a '^^ ia 'a 'yv''' ’•■'■ bv
- Av -- V '^'‘v"'a. A d.'': fvfrla~lavk'f''ria 'Ad' >■■'■' -■-^'''\_ :
Ati -'- >■' 'j,, *’• • - ' • air' ' .• • ' —.; ■ -.-' C ■''*' ^*- ' S' ' - .* *-■ ' • --.
-.,, *.., -»., ' •„ •.. >• ■-.. —. - ....
-> * Az y * •. * >- ^ ^.,
V - .' : •».■... .' ■" ' * •■- - ■**■•-:. ■ “■ ' i ••« ^•- *■'..• ■■- • \ .^' - • ' ■ ', ' ■ •.. **'* .i .»
■^'•'< V • V ‘d o' ' ■• • “' • •" -- ■• "■ ' ‘\V' *•- '■' A- -- '- - '.;. ••* • '.: '., C''' ‘.‘ * ' V
^tadp'y^ivv^d^d'y*: : '- 'AL. ■- '■' - ■<'\odd 'vvr'^: V .^ V '-.'•; -■ ^^;. V.
-' -- W. V
Vs'.‘. “x... ■• •' N • C.; •
V • 'f' i^'fv.. rtv.; *C*': .r' .1 ■. .VC.,
d'"' Vdrii
V' ' ^ 5c" '■', ' “t', ', ' — "'N

- -^ NV: *> 0^
V 'is.., ^, _; .•., 1_.A’:

V ’ 'ix' -' ••-■<* '-•• -. '. ■: a e'” *‘V.'^ .*•-:., ' ■ CITE''' S -*'* * “-■'., ->'
L '.■, hc'. -..' yv, -: T s'" > V
y .*-*-’. C T -- -: 't .'■* C .- i. .-'■.
;, 'T .- •' '* '■• T. N‘ -- ’*N‘
'***', '” L 'L', ••"■', \ •'•'
V a’ .tr. '..CV '• :.
>'-.*.... ■ -'. — C. ■‘A.. - .-' ■'- .' * '■ • r ■ -- ■ “V
- y d. ‘"S ^ ^ ” ** *^"‘'
r *' ’■ '-*■ yd,, ■•.v'‘*'‘ • .*1’'•ijj'r: .'' .^; '.
V ■’V
r '‘ir* — in C;; .'.
c^i.'v' r .'* ’‘a .y, ^ ^r^i.i., ’. V
.y : „V ''"•' ■- N •*•*” • CT'.
s;; r LV; C
'' vyt -- -- Nvy
.rv ■ AA'"'
r‘ ri. i. 'VD - rh.' .' '■
V
^di' ffad.md.avsallaria
A' ' ■. • *' ' N -* ' K _ r"' d
.v„^‘
* /rh.i^fe'
■ Cl ■



II
1
5>v v '.•■ V

/•_: -,
•A’ ■ h ■•' ' .-■

V AV:; V'
'■ * **: ,"^*'-: • • *" '. '■ '. ' • A '■ .'*'•
✓, - .•-••-■; •; -• ■ • <- -',... A' ' *
’ ^''.'vt'’ /.'*>•, 'Fr: '.■-: •
^ ' ' ' -- h
£. y\a'f: -‘ A ~
"*
*’ ' ". I h. •>'.;.
* L ' *.

.. •' ■■ ' .'dy '■. ts;; V
's ^ ' / ' '• • >


>: Vy. :; oc‘, 'NA: -
i. _ •. -
■•'?■77 V .-«. '; -- *■-■^
T. S..
•: •: -■ '*..■• r
V' ' *, - ■- * ‘ -- N •
V yv, V V., .sns; viv;; i:
>: ■. -- -- vintrv

's ■ .‘V
> •.. •.
. <., K‘
Fri AC' '

.V
- ic v.y .in- -- -..
-■: v..nt V
t V r- --. -; _ 'Ay ■AA"’. A'
h -.. - •■vl'i ^>'’r ^ .d
-■■.• ry‘ l; - C'C 0?
1‘ •^'* : T'. -••' ^ L, sc‘n c* .•% ri. ..■• '%■>* 'yd.
'. * y - * "• : V ''AN

V VEX
-* IV..
k^vv..



T- -- dd, L, ’ --, y.,
v>v^v i'*ten;.., NA V }
V

‘ r
.'s
■'ij"

n yv/. a •-■ arad C d : : -: y 'scb..; C
pcs al V, csv'; yr

Ci ■ •' ■'■• '"'• .f '*'••0 I *•.%•'•'■ •''<e'; id' '_'0 s', ■', '-■•••'
, \ r 'yta' ■' /■' '"•r. b ■; .*' ■ * -' "i.' -.' • *->■
A v nv d'''; ney -
. ' ■••' ■ ': '■ i '•■- ■'.-" ■ < ■ .b‘c ' ■-■■ d ■ Aids— —
Nr: da cv: : - r^av.; ryta:
’' .c ja SCC: -: rc>ab; C yr.



vv <>'•>.r ~



V: ■: ■
"^■21
SPSS's'

•-'-*• fr
^ >. ’i
?5c:
■‘N’" •

r<rr




sc V -. .•.-, -... .•, •-••.
V. ■.■■■ ■■'■^.., '; -: h '''v Sl I■ ndt va^a
■ ' ^ ■ ■ ■ - ■ - ■■ - ■'- .D VA ^w.c.


• V •■'^ v, -': CD rlvaai/^;
s[\rivl vdaua'^i
-- - : ••-•-■' a fa f: ■> -- 'JS
. ■ ' ■. -. ' '-• A? •?
'" ■' .'•, ••• • -- .'-.- ^ ■r'.ty:







b • • '■_ ^ **-• A..
jic. — T' ir; H ■ -■'<•■'■' bssjt •
t^r...


..' ‘ yr h^:
V '-■ .D. '■«. *


p' ^scsdoc^ cv; i V '■ V..
i .vr*


m.



..V „




N. -
- s.r' n.: v..
•... -


'j :

v 'b^w

; ot.v%'; v: : '. ■>; .>'■: “‘
i *■>, -.- : ' V: .!■*•*■: '' • *
■. -■ ■^•- -• r' -■ • • *. ' vrv. '; C -. *.. •, • .'3


;.. sv
.
...... : .v ■ •-■
. .f •- /' vc' '■*'■'■' ' ■ '•■*•- ' F' V V ‘ iv '• "’

.'t' ' CL N '' ' '■ '^' '- \ '

'y
., r b.v ' '‘'': c^ v C '*• ''vc: *.b .f, 'f- -- -- :. .'■ "; " c
■.•■*•'_ -;; b
'AT • TC': ' •' '•• -- V ''■«•• '•' •• • - ‘.'vt -- - - ■, -- <. -' L •' • -•;
V ■■ b : .bv- -- - ■ CV .-; -
n ''bb*: : bc ■'•"otvc.b;, y^’ : : : a. -,, '..D'
■' bbv A
■■tei.di t" -- ‘ be s ^; b,,
• ' •.
'r;; • ..aab; jaw: : ';;
; '• T' d'■ •’ '■. Ai ''•■ V •;; ' '■ '"''A '■ '. ■ *


'L ■■■ vs te -. b; ■b; >v‘b: c b. aav '; N >. II b;; b A ■:.
A a.cc; 'Advt: : ' 'at' ■•'c'n b •.

.■ ■^ ■■-', V ■.

A
V S'
'■ \ '. .f'
d.f'at d'' L b bo*‘ ^\ na'bl'.ylnb 'r ■■■'; nbc. ■'-. V -- 'W ''■■■ ''-'
ANA b n a' b^t 'rr aac^*.b, ' ■ i ■ AT's' -- b: : ' AAA' ' n obvn.': :; \ ca: ‘'; .S b...;
y.
.. e •
-- v: :; :,

t.' .' -•'•■•.•'. •
. •.^. • • -\

■: V - kybb. .v 'v; V

b v; aa.v:.; i ■ abb^ a i'va/adb y;; :
., AN A; i^bv.....,. ......
.'AC; V C t.>^y> nb^r: .„-.: : 'b --, b rsfy..; ' .b:,, C. -, - ' b 'n"' a: ' .vb^..t vb's’ i '.. .b -. '.;. _ : b. • • - b
abbb^vr; bt: ^ '. va.", b. b" ^bn ' .'■ y b ca>b -- b.. ' - AY b. v; .tb '•. •' •■• b/'bab 'a'^'d. -
: -: Lb>lv: yc, .bd.bon b V - b y b,;;; V Sb b l.,. b b: ^: -- b'cb ■ a'lnbbb.. .‘:


11
/ 7 ^ /' A
*
L
.v.,
.,
^ k' ' '' “■ ^ ^
/■
‘l
r
!. F



V ■■rrri, ^.. ■ t. > ...A
/?
I

. x'

'« V o V
., V v4viewa.<
.>(»*• w. n'**'
. t. ■ •
■ S' V
'• •%
W VM. «4»
.:. ..vb ^:;.
U *VM4^



rt'". '". -
. V ■


MM.
...
k~f

. /. #• «<” A
~ t * I T ~ I — I n **
.-.<

»- ‘
•
# • • * •

,;
\
.»*.
li

f'.

i * '
>
•. /
f •

rt / -
\




‘ • » * •. > •
« * -
• CV * ‘.C --.



L : A 'VVA I ■



’ -- ■' T'; ', ■*• -' - ■ T '•■-.■ •'. ' •. •.

'T •.
. j .' • • •' •
\


Ah
t
■, C
/

- V *
t

y. •"‘. r

■ ' .V
■. '
•










I .*




'‘S. c''' N v/ V V Tc'. ■'*■' N alfa: YFA: ia' -- ^riv • v‘ • ' * '•' ''


j ^
*■ * .V.

.
-. y ■ .»





-
•. - ^


•*■- • 'f.'' "'d’a ■ te''''' • ■fv
*•.
r:

'■■■: '■ ’. ' [ i ', NR.' : ' ' ak'fsf I V '' ' i ■n ' .'co'
'.'i •• t •• C : N., FAA, r ri. ..ra. ka’d> a A: AF d - v L •'*'
: ->■ .V'AM -- .-■• V C ■' A ’' ■- v ^ ^ V ...■•■■■ ■' -- ' ■■' -■ - '■ ■ V c - _■
'V A ./"■-• i ■ '<■: ■' C V - y. s • •'r' nvcc : N E • - ' ■; •, h rfr 'riri. ■ of' •••.'•' ./
d/'vn A sivnc N: tens- -- s ■ -
b ' v/nn n; : - ^. s.oc. h; : sc/'brb'h ‘CC: b -• onc •'.'••v.c' S • ' • -

v b; '- Nr ': b'bta' rbvbar' aac 'ff
«.*
•! b ■ri 'r »' * '4 t /. af ^ * / • • •' •; -■ .> r. - ' ••-: •-;, N •. ■ rr Ay
c ''vbnnv
‘y -- .*, ■■■■ i, ■■, -■■■■■ -*■' y y; -;
s; ' TT' n C ■
. »



C *' •%
V V V.C

V ■ A
•■'C t’.c’ ■-■'*■' .S •c.v* d'f'.rir
: .C.. N; .cyy: C C T/C/O ia" b b To ’bb v"
.■-•; • ‘ - r - o sc't > S' ^ '-; C;
""■ oo ' : 0tt'’h.c c

i i..: CN' h.
; fl • • -- .-.;.
..(-■ :. V..
* .* V '
‘'ps' ■■i v'fic.d’'' ■'- ■' C te*y.: va.'


r.. - *.
VN>V,
V .•

'I J •:;
• - s. ...
^ J'i .'-
'••.• v'
'* ■•'.**

* ^ C • •

.- V
'■ js d.




V ■
•i' i






^. sa

vv»; V Vi^v - • ‘ • : • - '’cv v v
^ .-' ".r

COS
•_ *, * z' ' * V •• ' '. *
-■■ '■ ■; -•.

••; li


ria

hr
/. • /

rv: ’I






??s ■ ..........
’

''cvate' ■■ •'v‘cn
d. av' L -- 'i ••V'‘* ' cv .c.•.* "'.■'>.■* V' *' C *'-. X
C v?ic^ /l L
X' ' - ..•

■ - ^: ■: hon; NS V te'hh: - h' tteiv SC, -
isstesiss^sts#^^
v\y -- ^., •-. ■ : r' ri ■ >- ti '• •".^>-; .-
'* ■ *.. .'■” .’•' -- V ■ • : ■ .i - ■ ". '■^■ ’■ ’^y* * ■'■-■■'. • ..rt' '

h
V
THE


labyrinth
s
’!
I!
’ f.'.
if.i"
'A,
'k
b.
S.
O'

• ' {
*»• ^
I
G F
E.

J.
VOL, IV

-* VC

T



■*.T'4

12
/■
♦ •* - ■-•. 0. •, i
r; wi' •' ¥^'' .(!
S'., ^ : K ■ ' ■ %
•. ■ V '■ Oi .' ■■ .: E
• /•. ^ <

‘f *■.

♦'
X


j

'.*> ^ L ■‘ •.S' vsifen:
T 't
^ * V; >. LV>.' ‘-
nvt'•; : C.?.?



« t
I
r. •
) *
•• V 'L.
. •; ?." ■'

'?•

.
.” >'


c'.;
'.;

\.
■‘VV f


V
f^sv Colb'
'’A •
. s
if.

AA..
>
'•'M

tx. ■*
A
I L


THE
L
Y R I N T H S
I
O F
t'
V.

A

F

Zt
.'A V / C -
ff

^ r J
^ re.

rv •
A
NOVEL.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
EXCESSIVE SENSIBILITY,
AND FATAL FOLLIES.
f.
r"
■*»-’ r

['■'.livl \
■ft

IN FOUR VOLUMES.
VOL. IV
iohn>n#jqhnston
$
FA
LONDON;
%
PRINTED FOR G. G. J. AND J. ROBINSON,
paternoster-row, 1791.

I


KW.
ro
L ■ ’.F 'a y'.'w. .'1.'
/».■'• ■ ■
■ •is'''j
• *
1
I.
■-■'■• ci -.; • -: _ •
« «;

V
V



.-•' -- V; : 5 ^ N •’-. -- : ir...........................:
...........................:
*'• ■>/ ^ •
i
•'< --.. LIS

^ 7 -- V ' • ^ -
fc'’' '^, V
aio •
2
t
_/
'‘r «'•*/./
F ''SI
• ' ^
■‘*
h -.^



■''pfi'iis'i i
. • TV « •
--
c*5«^ sl f.
- wftt -.-
• ' - CJ lx' ' • ■'•■■•»■■; .>■< - ' -
L C > -- -^ -- £|gfe'"'
. V •
'.
&A"V‘ i tv ■ 4m‘t* "■■

t' r^.. V
; ■! ■ - f‘'l d.t‘ rt • '

#%-


'* j^t*''•■ * i. 'cv'crt'
f:.
'f' W.
ci;
;
r -? - ri
{



; c'>r.
■ ■
.'i ^
V
sss^ r>’
'M'J*‘ ' '■


><'
• 4
.' fv
■ L
..f
'» j
f
\ •
■^ — A tt i. •
T',
v’ vrc V^.'VVN., S


; a

: !ri


f
s ...
. \
> •

'S' -' ite - - -' '-■. • ' » — .»-•*■ %♦. >

- .-■'
N •

N

* ■ k s


rv.
("- -
'V- --. >
sec'. 'ide.. -.
■«■ e _•
*:
# ■
• • V
LI

\ *
V '

f t
■'< '<

■(‘- -
ft
id'ri.
At' 4
*.
ca.:.
” A



kf
- '■. ' i
■*.
V T

y' '
»
T H E
  LIPEH
LADY DE GREY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Ki.
■*
• t'. ~
ks
my letters are generally of the
) '
A
melancholy kind, I cannot expect to
be a very pleasing correspondent. I will now, however, try to make you amends for the many painful moments I have unwillingly occasioned. But that I may bring my joyful tidings into Some method, you shall be
* /
VOL. IV
B
made
✓
'‘i'ag ica.
2

made acquainted with them exactly as 1 have been.
In my last I wrote you that Sir William jersey was dangerousty ill of a fever; which, on the same day I wrote to you. Settled in his brain. His phystcians direduy pronounced him past their hopes of recovery, Charles came to me with the news, and requested that I would return with him to Portman Square, until we again heard from Lady Wentworth; as, in cafe of Sir william’s death, he did not think himself Sufficient to give the necessary orders.
I consented to undertake this melancholy office, and immediately returned with my Brother.
Poor Sir William was in a state of distraction not to be described, calling on Jemima every moment,
and
  3
and then Supposing that she had appeared, and Somebody stood before
4
him to prevent his feeing her.
Dr. W -- -- --
I _
-- -- told me, that nothing
could be done for him, that no one must enter the chamber except those that were absolutely necestary; that about six would be the crisis of his disorder, and that he did not think it possible that he should Survive that hour.
■>
I was sitting in the back drawing-room with my Brother, when The housekeeper came running upstairs and Said, that Lady and miss Wentworth were just arrived, and in the parlour. I would have ran instantly down to them, but she Said, stop, I am desired by Lady Wentworth to inform you, before you come down, that there is a very dear friend of
B a
yours
4

yours with her, and that you must prepare for a furprise. Theodore instantly struck my imagination, and I flew downstairs : when, on opening the door, 1 Saw Lady and Miss Wentworth Supporting our Jemima in their arms. This fight took from me all power of Speech. I ran and clasped her in my arms almost sense
less
nor had I even recollection left
to wonder how this happened.
It was many moments before any one of us spoke. Lady and miss Wentworth Sobbed aloud. At length Lady Wentworth Said, this must appear strange to you, but the present time is not proper for explanations. Our jemima’s fate is on the point of determination. At this she looked in my face with an exprestion that will never be effaced from my memory.


5
mory. I kissed her hands and bathed them with my tears. Lady jersey then Said, for heavens Sake conduct me to my Husband;; dreadful suf pence I cannot bear.
Charles was standing behind mej but as he did not speak, no one observed him. He said, permit me to go upstairs, and try if it be possible for your Ladyship to see Possible I exclaimed she, but my instant death could prevent me. However, we persuaded her to let Lady Wentworth and Horatia go up with Charles, as, if he had any recollection, the Sudden appearance of her might prove fatal.
They went, and she stood with her hands clasped in an agony of grief On the bedchamber door being opened, she heard the voice of
Sir William.
nothing
b3
her
6

her Husband; at the Sound of which file flew upstairs. I followed as quick as possible. Just as she gained
the gallery at top of it, Charles met
lie said, that it was Lady
her.
wentworth’s desire that she should not come into the room just yet Sir William was raving violently. Open the door, I will go in, replied Jemima.
On charles’s doing as she desired, her Spirits failed her, and it was with difficulty we Supported her to a chair.
She recovered, and approached the bed, on the foot of which, at the
Sight of Sir William, she fell senseless.
Lady Wentworth had hold of
one of his hands i he had not the
smallest recollection pf her, and was
addressing himself to open of his Servants

>
7
vants who Sat at his head, to Support the pillows.
There! that’s a fine sight. Said he, what a beautiful mountain!
Jemima stands on the top. of it. Sup
• _
by sunbeams— — of you stir, or she will fall down the precipice.
Hush — ril creep Softly and
lead her. Then he exclaimed, which of you has chained me? Do you want to murder her.
Lady Jersey had, by this time, recovered, and threw herself into his arms, clasping him round the neck ril go with you, said he, I know she is dead — don’t drag me — She shall be wrapped in Snow — she’s gone, she’s gone! — and Sunk, quite exhausted, upon the arm of Lady Jersey, whole eyes were riveted on his in filent horror.
b4
Every
$
Every one present was too much affected to speak a word. Dr. W fortunately came into the roomj he bad heard below stairs of what had happened. He begged that every
one would retire, particularly Lady jersey; for Should Sir William have an interval of reason, the sight of her
must be instant death. That he and miss Wentworth would wait by the bedside, as he considered that her appearance might not be So dreadful as that of Lady Wentworth.
It was with the utmost difficulty that we prevailed on Jemima to quit the room; nothing but the fear of losing her Husband, Should She per fist in staying, could have prevailed.
She kissed both his burning hands, and left the room, distblved in a flood of tears.
I am

9
I am just called upon to attend Lady jersey, therefore you must wait until tomorrow, when I will conclude my eventful history.
Yours,
LAURA DE GREY

xo

FROM THE SAM B
\
T O
THE
SAME
WITHOUT farther comment, I
Shall continue my story.
i
I attended the ladies downstairs. Lady Wtentworth was So much affected, as to be obliged to retire to bed,. Lady jersey walked up and down the room in a state of restless anxiety,. I endeavoured to Speak comfort to her, but found all I could Say, whilst she was in suspence as to the fate of Sir William, unavailing.
At length, after more than an hour and an half of anxiety, Dr,
4
W

IS
W
entered the room. Neither
of us durfi: make inquiry as to the state of his patient. He relieved us by Saying, your Ladyship may be fa far happy, that I have left 'Sir wil liam composed. He knew miss Wentworth, but was greatly astedfed at finding her near him; So much So, that I am certain your presence would have put his recovery past
May I not hope to see him this evening, Sir, Said Jemima, Why, I should think you very im*
Oh,
P •
prudent did you attempt it.
Sir! confider my anxiety, Said sh but if I must not be Seen by hiniiv should he fall into a dumber, promise me that I shall See him then, and I will patiently wait your mons. He assured her that he would
• ' ■. i ■...
not be unmindful of her fuiferings.
B 6
He
>
11
^ He then left us, thankful for the news of his returning reason. This we immediately communicated to the good Lady Wentworth, who shed tears of joy. We had still room to fear. He was not pronounced out of danger, and the crisis Dr. w had
pronounced drew near.
By the time we had again reached the drawing-room, Miss Wentworth joined us, and related what follows;
“As Soon as you left the room, Mr. Vernon and myself sat down on each fide of the bed. Sir William
S
raved again for Some time, until he fainted in the arms of one of the attendants. Indeed Dr. W -- -- thought
that he had expired. It was Some moments before he showed any signs of returning life. At length he gave
a deep sigh, on which Dr, W -- -- -- --
desired
  13
desired both Mr. Vernon and tnyfelf to retire, out of sight, which we in stantly did.
He Sat down by him, and, after
rubbing his temples with hartshorn, and giving him Some of the same
Spirit in water. Dr. W -- -- Saidi
am glad to find you better, Sir. Ay, replied my Brother, So lam: how long have you been here? 1 did not See YOU before. — Where is Vernon? Charles stepped forward, and took his hand. You are better since you slept, Sir William, are not you.? I don’t know, Vernon, - I have had horrible dreams. He then asked for
a glass of wine and water, which was given him very weak.
“Charles then Said, I have Seen one from Harewood, who Says, that
Wentworth
cerned
JA

cerned for your illness, that She intends corning to town. Oh God! replied he, I must not See her. Dr.
W -- -- --
Said, no one will be permitted to approach you without your orders, Sir: but miss Wentworth expressed Such anxiety about you, that Mr. Vernon and I thought it best to let you know that she was in the house. Horatia here, Said he 1
After pausing for a moment, ’ he added, her goodness must not be repaid with neglect. Charles, as I am better, will you conduct her upstairs? Let every one cpuit the room. They
-- -- only waited until
did So; Dr. W
it might be supposed Mr. Vernon could have time to conduct me upstairs, and then left the room,
‘‘ I approached the bed trembling.
. /
He took my hand, and, after being
extremely

I
5
extremely agitated for Some moments, burst into a flood of tears. How can you bear the sight of me, Horatia? — Your Sister, your angelic Sister! — I begged him to compose
himself; that, I was certain, were his health restored, nothing else was wanting to complete his happiness. Say not so : there is that wanting which kingdoms cannot Supply. Am I not a murderer? Is not your Mo -- there coming to upbraid me ^ No, no, Said I, Ihe comes not to add to your afflidfions, but to relieve your mind from a burden that it is unable to bear. She fears that she has acted wrong, and comes to ask your forgiveness, - rather than load you with
reproaches.. My forgiveness! sud
«!
Horatia, do not. mock me, I am too wretched already.
<‘he
/
l6
He grew faint with Speaking, and we begged him to be quiet for a little, promising that we would wait silently by his fide. After a little, he afkcd me, where my Mother was .fi Said, I did not doubt but She was in town. In town, Horatia, and not here? This used to be her home. And soit will be now, replied L Let me entreat that you will endeavour to rest until she arrives. She brings with her what I am Sure will tend towards the restoration of your
peace
‘^dr.w
came into the room.
and desired that he might not be disturbed any longer; therefore Charles
came
what will, I know, contribute to my sister’s happlnefs.
We
  i7
“We waited impatiently two hours longer, when the dolour gave us
j07
William
out of a very quiet Sleep, and his fever had greatly abated. When he awoke, he anxiously inquired if Lady Wentworth was arrived. He was told that She was, but so greatly fatigued that she was gone to bed, but would See him in the morning.” Lady Jersey could hardly bear this delay; but the hopes given her of his recovery, enabled her to bear the disappointment of not Seeing him again for that night. We prevailed on her to endeavour to take Some rest. Miss Wentworth told me, that her lister had not stepped since She was informed of her brother’s illness. After Lady Jersey had retired, miss Wentworth, Lady de Grey, we have many
apo
i8

apologies to - make to you for our Seeming want of confidence. I will relate how it comes that you See Jemima here; at which, I am certain, no one is more rejoiced than yourself,
You know that my Sister came up to town in order to lie in. On their arrival, very unpleasant news was brought from the Continent, This hurt my Sister fb much, that on the fourth day She was brought to bed of a dead child.
The day after we came to town, the porter’s wise, who staid in the house with him during the family’s stay in the country, had died. This my Sister had heard, and in an agony not to be described, proposed to my Mother the plan of feigning herself dead, in order, if postible, to rouse
the

19
\
the feelings of her husband, if he retained the least Spark of regard for her; but if he continued insenfible, that She would bury herself in the country until time should put an end to her Sufferings; observing, at the Same time, that the recent death of the poor woman would countenance the deceit.
It was not poshble for her to prevail on my Mother for a length of time, to act a part in this deception. At length, through jemima’s and my entreaties, she consented; and determined to let no one be privy to it, but those who were actually necessary to carry it into execution. The Housekeeper and Lady jersey’s woman, with the Porter, were the only people who were trusted. Had our Scheme failed, no one would ever have been undeceived.
My
20
My Mother and myself Set ofit dl rectly for her seat in Yorkshire, leav ing Jemima a prisoner in her own house, under the care of the housekeeper, who was to accompany her to us as Soon as her health and fitua tioii would allow. She came to us safe; and no one fuspedted that any one was in the house but my Mother and myself, who kept her room much more than was consistent with her • health, in order to attend on my Sister. We had no Servants with us but those on whose fidelity we could depend.
I cannot describe to you, Lady de Grey, Said Horatia, what we have Suffered during this our voluntary exile. We shall be richly repaid, if my Brother recovers, by witnesling the returning happiness of Lady jersey,
whose
  21.
whose Sufferings have been as Severe as undeserved.
I assured miss Wentworth, that I was too happy in the restoration of my friend, to quarrel about the means by which it had been accomplished. We then retired, in hopes to take a little rest, after the uncommon fatigue our Spirits had undergone.
Charles promised to sit up with Sir William, and acquaint us if any change for the worse should take place during the night. Lady jersey’s woman was to sit in an adjoining chamber, to acquaint her hourly with the state of his health.
As my pen is tired, and my paper exhausted, I shall tomorrow take it up again; in the mean time, am
tour’s,
LAURA DE GREY

.12

FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
HAVE nothing to Say on my
own account, being too much interested in the Sat of others : therefore I ihaf proceed to Satisfy your curiosity.
We had the Satisfadlion, when we arose in the morning, to hear that the fever had abated, and that there was no doubt of the recovery of
Will
He
had slept more than three hours, during which time Lady jersey had persuaded my Brother to let her sit by the bedside: : on Sir william’s
Showing

23
showing Symptoms of awakening, she had retired, drowned in tears. Charles Said he inquired often after miss Wentworth, and wondered what she could mean, when she Said, that her Mother came to relieve his mind and to ask forgiveness of him. Did I dream this Charles, Said he, or did it actually happen? My Brother was obliged to Say that he was not near enough the bed when Miss Wenthworth Spoke, or it might have Seemed odd to him, that he could not explain what was her mean
He desired to be made acing.

quainted as Soon as Lady Wentworth
was risen. Which was done. He
%
begged the favour that she would come to his room quite alone, as he could not bear company. About eleven o’clock she went upstairs,
where
^4
where she staid more than half an hour. On her return, she Said, that Sir William was now deserving of her Jemima; that she had Said everything to comfort him, and asture him of her forgiveness, and had twice been on the point of disclofing to him that his Sorrows were near their conclusion. But not knowing what
effect such news might have on his already weak frame, she had not ventured. Lady Jersey proposed that in the afternoon that I should go up with Charles, and if we found him tolerable, that we should first hint at the possibility of his feeing her again. This proposal was approved and adopted. About three Dr.
W — ^ came and Said, that the alteration for the better was amazing, and such as he hardly ever witnessed
3 before 5

5
before; and, that Sir William might be able to Support the discovery if it was managed with discretion. We went upstairs in order, if post! ble, to break it by degrees to him. We recounted many instances of false reports concerning deaths, and of dear friends meeting often after Such mistakes, to which he attentively listened. On charles’s entrance,

William
is a female who will insist on offering her congratulations on this happy
occasion. Happy occasion! he repeated — nothing can restore happiness to me, but I thank her, who is it? I took hold of the curtain and drew it back a little. Lady de Grey, Said he, I am ashamed to See you, pray be Seated. I did So; and then told him that I had been his housekeeper
VOL, IV
C
more
[.
26
/
«
more than two days, but that I had now resigned my office to one he would approve of I was certain You are all too good. — Charles Said, Sir William, Laura has heard Some neyis, with which, did She not fear it might affect you too much, She wouldmake you acquainted. — There is nothing in this world that can give me a moment’s Satisfadlion, and no misfortune that can have hap pened, that 1 Shall now feel — Nay, replied I, if you are resolved to be miserable, it is in vain to combat your resolution. But I know how I could make you happy in Spite of yourself. What would you say could I reinstate you in the Same situation in which you was when I last Saw you at Harewood. — For heaven’s
9
sake Speak not So to me, there is
madness
I
?
  27
madness in the thought. What have I not lost Since that time You know. Sir, that nothing is impossible. suppose I should turn a magician, what would you Say to that He did not answer; and I continued. Saying, suppose I could show you a woman that resembled your lost Jemima. that’s impossible. Said he, in this world there does not exist her equal — Lady de Grey, Said he, I don’t know what you mean, nor do I know what was Lady wentworth’s meaning, but you are both mysterious. I am a wretch which would catch at anything like comfort: pray explain what is your meaning. I cannot bear this fus
N
pence; Speak, Speak, I conjure you. Well then, I think that Jemima might yet be restored to you. She
. s
C 2
h e re
23

here went over the Scene they had a£fed with great circumstantiality, and at great length, that one idea might prepare the mind for another He clasped his hands together, Saying, Oh God! where, where is she! Charles! Lady de Grey! bring me instantly to her. Can this be posti ble ^ He then sunk into my brother’s arms, unable to bear the Surprise, I rang the bell violently, which brought up Lady Wentworth and Lady Jer sey, who stew to her lifeless Husband, exclaiming. Who has done this? lie is dead! he is dead! She took his head from the arm of. my Brother and placed it on her own. We waited in filent .fuspence his recovery. No power on earth, Lady jersey Said, shall remove me from him again — He raised his head and looked
wildly

29
wildly around him, until his attention was arrested by the Sight of Lady jersey, in whose face he looked stead fastly, without Seeming to be able to Speak. She Said, Do you not know me? Oh Say that you have not forgotten me, and we will never part again — What are you Said he, do not deceive me. He then looked at Lady Wentworth, who had hold of
She Said, Sir
William, behold your Wife restored to you with all the affection she ever professed for you. They Sunk speech less into each others amis, and remained So for Some moments. Sir
\
William looked frequently at his Je
*
as if fearing it to be an illusion. Lady Wentworth staid with them, but desired every one else would retire into the drawing-room. She told us.
her daughter’s hand.
c3
on
30
on coming down, that Sir William had repeatedly asked forgiveness of Lady jersey and herself, that he had
Said everything to affure them how
00
sensible he was of his follies. And now that She and Jemima were the happiest beings on earth, we all joined in congratulations at the event.
Lady jersey this morning told me, that She was indebted for her present happiness to your Ladyship, to whom she means to make proper acknowledgments as Soon as Sir william’s health will permit. You advised her
to Seem to neglect him, and to flirt with another during his stay abroad, in order to rouse his jealousy. This she found herself unable to put into practice, but the idea Suggested
the plan which has Succeeded, So you see that you have been instru
4.
mental
  31
mental to the general joy
Sir William

is So much better as to be able to sit up two hours every day., Lady jersey has never left his room for half' an hour since the discovery. They are too happy for mere mortals
1 envy them though I rejoice at their felicity.
How that wretch Lady susari Strangeways vvill be mortified! — That gives me infinite pleasure. It is the Severest punishment that could have been inflicted on her, except that of finding herself the dupe of the maa she has married.
We hope to hear from you very Soon, and that you are entertaining
I
Said that I was going to write to you
thoughts of returning to town
and Sir Wolliam begged that I would convey his sincere thanks for con
c4
vmcing
32

\
vincing him of his folly, and restoring him to his charming Jemima. The whole family send best com pliments to you.
I shall remove to Fitzroy Street this evening, where 1 hope to stnd a better.
lam, yours.

LAURA DE GREY.


33
LADY ANNE WEST BURY
T O
LADY DE GREY
Thornley Abbey.
X Have given you full absolution for all the miserable moments you ever have occasioned me. I do not know any occurrence that could have happened at which I Should So sincerely rejoice, as the certainty of again see ing Lady jersey restored to life and happiness. I could believe
my eyes, when I came to that part of your divine epistle where you say, that you beheld Jemima Supported by her Mother and Sister, Tis impossible, exclaimed I! — Lady Made
C 5 lina
34-

lina and the Duchest were sitting at work in the same room, and desired to know what that was which I thought impossible. Only a miracle, replied I. don’t speak, I am all eyes until I have finished my letter. This I will tell you, our
lovely Jemima to happiness.
and is restored dies laid down; ntle Madelina
burst into tears of unfeigned joy at the news.
As soon as I had devoured your letter with kisses, which I was actually simpleton enough to do, I gave it to the Duchess, who read it to her daughter with that degree of
sensibility which the subject deserved.
We were only angry at the
delay of the post on the preceding
days, until we were in possession of.
the

35
the whole story. This completed' our extreme joy; which, as we were in the country, could be shown in
no other manner than in rendering
%
those about us as happy as ourselves. this was done by the duchess giving a ball the Same evening to the Servants, and as many of the tenants as the shortness of the time would permit invitations to be Sent to.
I considered myself rather a woman of consequence on this occasion, as you informed me that it was one of my mad Schemes that first Suggested the idea of regaining Sir will liam’s heart by stratagem. However,, I will allow that this should be, as it was, a wife’s last resource
I have, in my present stow of good-humour, forgiven even jersey. Though I must Say that Providence;
c6
baa
36
%
has done more for him than he deserves; and though I am certain that it was not on his account that this event has been brought about. No! It was to reward the unparalleled virtues of his amiable wife. I will have it so^ — let no one presume to contradict me.
What an unfortunate being am I to be out of town at this time? If there had been any unfortunate bu liness in the way, I should have been certain of my share of it.
It was impossible for me to live, even in the country, without having Some sighing idiot at my elbow. Lafcelles is continually teasing me with his ardent pashon for Lady Madelina, Why does not the fellow assume courage Sufficient to tell her himself how much he adores her?
I See
/
N

37
I See no impediment; yet he Seems as frightened as if he was certain of a denial. The Duke approves of
him as a Son,
Madelina
has no objedion to his addresses, if I am any judge of the heart.
I persuaded the Duke, the other morning, that he had acted wrong in permitting young anderson to ad dress his daughter; for that I was pretty certain that she entertained a partiality for the brute. He looked very earnestly in my face. It was not postible to "keep my countenance — So I Spoiled my joke. However, I Succeeded with lascelles, whom I Soon talked into an absolute belief, that they were a couple of turtles — So blind does love make a
man.
As
^8  .
As there is no real distress, and that distress is absolutely necefisary to complete the happiness of a lover why, I contrive to make a little ideal misery. It has a wonderful
effect.
I am dying until we arrive in. town, in order to present the Anderson family to you. Such a Set of Hottentots never were assembled together in one group. Master Richard is the most prominent figure, I think, as he affects beauism and genteel manners. The rest of the family presume upon their opulence, and aim at no more than taking every method possible to display their
wealth.
Richard hinted to me the other day that, when he was united to.
Madelina
through:


39
are con
through the duke’s interest, that he might procure a title s and, he Said, Father had money enough to Support it, and that he would show them what
it was to be a Lord, is cutting a dash would do it. I only wish you Saw the creature.
The Ladies overwhelm me with civilities. The two young ones an, d I are Sworn friends, tinually lamenting that we are to part So Soon; but they have made me promise them to visit them in town.
Lady Madelina desires her best cornpliments to you, andsays, that she promises herself many very pleasant days, during the winter, in your So, cietv.
V
Pray tell Lady jersey, that no one rejoices more at her happiness than
• V #
myfels, but that she rnust not make it known that I was the person
who
AO

who Suggested the plan by which
She was restored to her present hap piness; for is she does, I Shall become the oracle which all neglected wives will consuit. And, thanks to the distipation of the present age, I am afraid that I should never be out of employment. Besides, I am afraid that but few of our sex postess the virtues and patience of Jemima; therefore I could not promise the Same certainty of reward.
I am called away to attend the Duke and Lady Madelina in a ride, to view Some of the natural curiosities of this county. Adieu.
• Yours,
ANNE WESTBURY.
If you see my Brother, tell him to expect me Some time in the next week.
V

41
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
EDMUND LASGELLES.
Algiers.
IN my last, my dear friend, I led you to expect that the next letter from me would be dated in Italy. It was my intention to have made a tour through what I may call the ancient clafiical world, that is, the countries situated on the Mediterranean, and to have revived andheight ened those Sweet impressions whith we have both of us felt, in the pe rusal of the Greek and Roman writers.

With those impressions, the academy ih the wood, and our old Seat near
the '
42

the cascade, where we nsed to learn burr talk, is delightfully connected: and those early and pleasing Scenes will be classical ground to me as long as I live.
4
The most unexpected and eventful discovery, which, though certain, still wears, in my imagination, the complexion of. a re very or a dream, has put a stop to my intended tour through Italy, Greece, and Alia Minor, and will bring me home much sooner than I intended.
But first, I Should tell you, that I am at perfect liberty; though I still
voluntarily remain in this place, and
«
even in the Same house where I was sent in the character of a captive Spaniard.
The Dey being at last Satisfied *
that we were Englishmen, and well
pleased
\*
  43
pleased that we had been able to effect our object, by pushing through the combined fieet. Sent me a present of a very fine horse, with Some live sheep and poultry for my table, with orders that a like number of these should be furnished to me weekly, during my continuance in Algiers, The person who came in the name of the Dey, with these orders, and whom I met Soon afterwards, by appointment, at the house of the Vice, consul, was a venerable man, of midling stature, as well as age, a mild yet interesting aspect, with a beard white as Snow, coming down below the middle of his waist, he was in the Moorish dress, he accosted me in the English language with great politeness; on which
Though
we
44

we immediately entered into convert fation.
There was Something in his attention, his questions, and his looks and manner, that made me love and reverence him more than I had loved or reverenced any man, at least any
stranger. His earnest desire to be ♦
informed of all that related to me
$
was Such as could not be counterfeited by the utmost affectation of
politeness. It Seemed like the concern of a guardian angel, descended
from heaven, in a human form, to
»
face to face, with the mortal committed to his care and protection. But what Seemed of most importance to me. Seemed of least 4: o him: and what the least to me, to him, on the contrary, the greatest. For while I talked of advancement
m
  4?
in the army, and the pafiion I had entertained, from my earliest youth, for miss Laura Vernon, he pryed, with mysterious inquifitiveness, into
the story of my insant years: his
(
curiofity’being excited, as he Said, by the date of my birth, the circumstance of my being an orphan, and that of a bank note of a thousand
*
exactly, being found in the anonymous letter that consigned me .to the care of the good Mr. Raymond.
To a question, often repeated, whether, besides the note, any other articles had been left with the little orphan? I at last, conceiving that he meant to inquire only into the amount of my whole stock or fortune, answered, nothing but a miniature picture, which my adopting
3 parents,
46
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond, presumed to be tl^at of my unknown Mother, and which the letter that accompanied the infant deposited to their care, requested to be worn by the child, next his heart, as Soon as he Should attain to the Seventh year of his age.
A Sudden tremor Seized the interesting stranger; and, with a salter inj voice, he alked a*fight of that picture. I opened my linen waistcoat, and produced a Small silken purse, cantaining the picture, with a small lock of dark brown hair, which I constantly wore close to my
heart, in obedience to the command
of the dead, suspended by a Small Silken ribbon, over my right shoulder, and coming round my waist under my left arm.
O myf

47
O mysterious Providence, at the sight of the picture, he cried, my Charlotte! O my Charlotte! Let no impious raster presume to deride the presentiments communicated by the ministers of the Supreme, to the human mind in dreams — for dreams
are often from God.
He kist'ed the lifeless image of my Mother, (for I now found, for certain, that it was my Mother that She picture indeed represented) and, with equal transports, throwing his arms around my neck, gave vent to emotions too big for utterance, in a flood of tears.
Dear youth. Said he, Theodore,
>
my Son, pledge of the purest flame that ever glowed in human breasts, behold your Father, who sees in your face the traits of your Mother, prematurely,

48
/
maturely, for me, translated to heaven! He added many other exprefilons of Surprise, joy, gratitude, and devotion, to an all ruling Providence.
I was convinced — I felt, indeed, without reasoning, that this was my Father, and abandoned myself freely to similar emotions and transports to those which agitated his breast.
The first thing he informed me of, after his mind had recovered Somewhat of its usual composure, was, that for many years he had been visited by the exact image that my
first: appearance presented to his view, in a dream. Many things, he added, were, to his certain knowledge, foreseen in dreams to the Indian Bramins. Superstition is indeed natural, Said he, to the unfortunate; but now
that I have Seen the progeny, the
image

‘ V
.A'

V’
; V
  49
image of my dear Charlotte, I shall not account myself in the number of those that are wholly unfortunate: and even in high Spirits and hopes, I cannot divest myself of a firm belief in divination by dreams.
Here, my dear lascelles, I shall interrupt this long and most surprising narrative, requesting that you will Send copies of it to those that
V n
you judge to be most concerned in me, and in whpm I am most con cerned.
I will write you again in a few days, and give you a brief account of my father’s story, reserving a thousand circumstances to be communicated when we reach England j which, if it please God, we shall do in the course of a few weeks.
VOL. IV
D
In
so

In the mean time, I know not
what to think on the Subject of dreaming. Is there not Some author
who affirms, that to anticipate future
\ •
ideas and impressions, by the power of imagination, is not more wonderful than the faculty of retaining Such as are past, by the power of memory.
eu
/
Tours always,
"\
THEODORE NEVILLR,


Iohn ^b#john
010


5*
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
WITHOUT ANY preamble whatever, I Send you an abstract of my Father's story.
We are descended, Theodore, Said he, from the Beaumonts, one of the
most ancient, and, stt one period.
powerful fantili^s in the
land. "The Lords of Raby, though
not the chiefs of the family, were amongst its most distinguished cadets.
'** I
“My Uncle, the postestor of this estate when I left Great Britain, in
f
his younger years, distipated all that
D 2
was
52
was not entailed, by various excefises • but, when he advanced in life, his ruling passion was avarice.
«« My Father, vyho was a clergyman,
destined by my grandsather to unite
«
in his person as many of the church
».
livings in his gift as possible, died young. No other resource remained to my Mother and myself, with my two Sisters, than to accept the as iylum, offered to us with a very bad grace, at Raby Castle. Every expense was grudged — clothes, education — even necesfary refreshment.
My Mother was degraded into the character of a mere housekeeper, and, in fact, no other servant, in this station, was retained. He compelled my Sisters, his own Nieces, to change their names, and to occupy the places of menial fcirvants.
If
  53
“IS another and more honourable lot was intended, by this unnatural
relation, for m
this proceeded
from the Same motive of avarice that had induced him to behave with Such degrading cruelty to my Mother and Sisters.;
“There lived in a neighbouring manufadturing village, a man of the name of Kemp,, who, by informing against the unfortunate adherents to
the Duke of Monmoutl
in
the
Short reign of James II and against those of the Pretender, in 1715? and by all the chicane of an attorney, : in the course of a long life, had amasted an immense fortune. This man had an only daughter, heiress to his ill-gotten riches. Her hair was a greasy kind of black; She had only a few teeth, and these were rotten; She
d3
Squinted
P

it
54
Squinted; was hump backed; had a bristly beard; and was, withal, of a most stitirical and malignant humour.
This Lady, now in her thirtieth year, was destined for the arms of his Nephew, at a period when b was only eighteen.
** Her Father, the old attorney, readily gave his consent, from the vanity of being connected with a noble family. And the Lady herself, instead of ‘being stiy, descended to the disgusting office and character of Soliciting, in the most importunate manner, a return of that ardent love which she professed to bear to Charles Beaumont.
that So
*« My Uncle,
large a fortune Should accrue to me, though the natural heir to what remained
  55
mained of the estate, without his participation, with the aid of the attorney, drew up a written obligation, whereby his Nephew, as Soon as he should be put in posteffion of Jane Kemp and her fortune, should devolve the latter into the hands of Lord Raby, for his natural life. This I obstinately refused to sign, until threats were used to turn my Mother and Sisters out of doors, upon the wide world. I therefore, reflecting, that, although the deed obliged me to give up her fortune, when poflested of it, it neither obliged me to have her or her fortune, consented and signed it.
“The respite that this compliance
afforded, from my uncle’s importu • *.
nities, was employed in cultivating
an intimate correspondence with
L 4 your
56

your Mother, the granddaughter of
a gentleman who had Spent his estate,
i •
and, at last, lost his life in the cause
« *
of the King, in the times of Cromwell.
Our hearts, at an early period,
were knit in one, even before we
knew what love was: and that rising
passion, obscuring and diminishing
every consideration of prudence into
mere nothing, drew us into the silken
band of Hymeneal union. This
union it was impossible long to conceal.

My Uncle, disappointed of all
his hopes of converting me into an
instrument of wealth, and irritated
by the reflection that the deed was
good for nothing, and that he was
made a general Subject of laughter,
turned me out of doors with Scarcely
a shilling in my pocket 3 and, from
that
  57
that moment, treated my poor Mother and Sisters with the most cruel brutality. My Mother Soon died of a broken heart. One of my Sisters, in despair, listened to the addresses of the gardener, and both she and her husband were forced to quit the family. The fate of the other I .haver
V
not learned..
In these circumstances, confider
^ ¥
myself as the ruin of those that were: nearest to me, and obliged to depend for the: necessaries of life, ori was not bred to any profession,, on the Small wrecks that remained to your Mother out of her father’s fortune, which did not amount to eleven bun
V
dred pounds, and wsiich, in unfettledi
times, could not be laid out on any
•*
Sure fubjeo:, and was therefore daily
f
decreasing, 1 re Solved to Seek for a
D C ^ for
\

t ABYBINTHB OF LIFE
fortune that should enable me to make up for the misery that had overtaken, and yet threatened those that were dearest to me, in foreign countries.
At that time there was a war between the Emperor and the Turks. Bursting from the arms of your Mother, whom I committed to Providence, and with whom I consoled myself with the idea of keeping up a close correspondence, I went to Yienna, and offered my Sword to the Imperial General, who was also Prime Minister. This being refused; not without marks of contempt and in
f
fult, I made my way, through a
thousand difficulties, to the Turkish
>
army then in Hungary. The Grand Vizier accepted my offered Service with marks of respect and honour, I was invested with a command of a
com

59
company of Georgians, who had learned a little of the European discipline; and by study and experience I attained to Such a proficiency in the art of war, as raised me from orfe post to another in the Turkish army, till I, at last, obtained, as a reward for my ^rvices, the government of a province; in which, however, as I did not praflise the enormities usually committed by Turkish governors, I did not acquire their usual fortune.
Mother
received
any of the numerous letters I Sent to her, or if ever she wtote to me, I
know not. The first accounts I heard of her, was in a letter in which her name and fate were accidentally mentioned. Sent by an intimate acquaintance to a mutual friend at Constan
D 6 tinople.
6o
tinople. She died, it was Said, in childbed: nor had the child ever ' drawn the vital air. There was a faithsul Servant, who, I am Sure, would never leave her as long as she lived. If this woman, whose name and relations I know, be still in life, she will give an account of particulars.
“For myself, Suffice it to Say, at j present, that I returned from the ci[ [ to the military Service of the Sublime Port; and Served with ap plause in Europe, Alia and Africa.
“It is customary for the Grand Seignior to Send a ship annually to the states of Barbary, to collect from the different governments tributary to the Port, presents or tribute.
It is six years since I was Sent,
as

\
^ THE L abyrinths OF LIFE. 6 I
as chief of the party, on that honourable commisiion.
“The Dey of Algiers was, at that time, at war with Several rebellious tribes of the Arabs, in the most inland and mountainous parts of his dominions. He had heard of my name, liked my appearance, asked my aid, and, with my consent, obtained permission from the Sultan that I should conduct a force against the rebels: I did So with Success“
“Dey almost adored, and still adores me. He entertains a Superstitious notion, that his authority, as well as his person, 'is Safe while I remain in his Service. This circumstance precludes me from obtaining, or So much as ashing, his leave to return to my own country j to which, I confess, I had not any desire to return.
62
 , 1
/
turn, from the moment that I was made acquainted with the death of your dear Mother, until feelings of patriotism were excited by the present contest between the English, on the one part, and the honie of Bourbon, leagued with America and Holland, on the other. The glorious stand made by my countrymen at Gibraltar, particularly, has raised an inclination in my breast to revisit Britain, which your existence and presence have converted into a refblution.
“As the Dey has not the Smallest reason, and, in fact, does not suspect that I have a wish to leave his country, it will be an easy thing to effect ray escape, I have already, since I began to think of going to England, found means to lodge fifty thousand pounds in the bank of Genoa. I have
still
X
sr
THE L ABYRINTH.S OF LIFE. 63
still eoofiderable wealth in this comi> try; part of which I can convert,, by means of certain Jews here, into
, What remainls I Shall make a merit of discovering, and a. present of it to the Dey. Secrecy,, you will perceive, is, in the mean time, absolutely necest'ary. Let ub meet again, at this time and place,, three days hence : fb long an interval is necestary, in order to prevent an excitement of curiosity into the caush of my abseiice from home, at the same hour, two days together, ” Saying this, he embraced me ten derly and departed.. I cannot but reflect, with a grateful adoration of Providence, and much meditation on the
 , how fortunate it
#
was that Mr. Raymoifd, when I parted from him to go into the army.
re
64
recolledfed the Small miniature picture, which he had never mentioned before, notwithstanding the request that was contained in the note accom
0
panying the bank bill, and put it into my hands at that crisis 1 Perhaps he thought, that if he had given it up to me when I was only Seven years, old, I might lose it: and Very probably I might have done So.
This will go Safely enclosed in the bosom of Some government dispatches, which are invariably held Sacred, from good Mr. D — —

th.
The place and date of my next, I cannot Specify. Use this intelligence as you please. Adieu.

THEODOR]^ NEVILLE.
  65

EDMUND LASCELLES
T O
CHARLES VERNON
Thornley Abbey.
It Should Seem as if this place was
destined for the completion of my happiness. A Series of the most pleasing events has Succeeded each other since my arrival at this house. I know that your fatisfadlipn will only be equalled by my own, when you read the packet I Send accompanying this letter. It is from our friend Neville; who has, at last, found that happiness amongst barbarians, which he Searched for, in vain.
m
66

in civilised fbcieties. I send you his
letters, as I know that there is one
in your family who will exult at his
good fortune, and who would rather
read the account of it in his own
hand writing.
I Lent, immediately, an express to
V
Mr. Raymond; but I ought to have
known, that Theodore could never
fail in his duty fb far, as not to give
the first intelligence to that family, to
whom he owes uncommon obligations.


We must now wait until fate restores
him to our friendship. I shall
be impatient for his arrival; my own
felicity will not be quite complete
until we meet, I have, Vernon,
gained a treasure in the heart of Lady Madelina Mortimer. Our nuptials
will be celebrated as soon as the lawyers

,
yers can be prepared. After we arrive in town we Shall leave this place, which we intend to do Sometime about the end of next week.
I must not conclutle this without mentioning how rejoiced I was at jersey’s undeserved good fortune: may his future behaviour, to the most exemplary wife, give me reason to say, that I have altered my opinioa of him.
I long to see Lady Jersey, and introduce Lady Maddina to her acquaintance

With Such females as
Lady Jersey and Lady de Grey, I wish she would ast'ociate; not that I, by any means, think that she, at present, wants any one to regulate her conduct. She poffestes a very fine understanding, and has been educated with the. greatest care, under
the
i
68
the immediate inlpedtion of the Duchess her Mother; who, though she enters freely into all the dissipation of fashionable life, never negledfs any of the duties that are due to her own family, or to Society in geiierah Her daughter’s dispofition is much more Serious than her own. At this I am not Sorry, as my own health would not permit me to attend her through the round of amusement into which the duchess always enters
when in town; for, though I would
#
not be tied to her apron string, yet I
V
hold it a duty incumbent on an hus band to pay the first atrention where it is most due.
Lady Anne Westbury is here, and is a most lively elegant woman! She has great beauty, much wit, and a fine fortune, I wonder she has never
married
  69
married again. I am Sure (he cannot have determined to live a Solitary, single life.. Why don’t you, Vernon, pay your addrefises there? She is extremely fond of your Sister, and might love you for her sake.
We are pestered with a family of Citizens, who are as much lost in Derbyshire, as a Set of Indians would be in the drawing-room at St. james’s. The Duchess and Lady
0
Anne Spend whole days in rendering them ridiculous. They disgust me, there is So much of cent, percent, about them. They are for ever calculating profit and loss, yet would wish the world to suppose them postested of unbounded generpfity. There is Something in trade that habituates a man to needless caution; and though they do the same action with a gentleman
f
70
tleman of liberal mind and education, yet the manner of conferring an obligation doubles its value. The heir of this charming family was my rival; but since he finds that I have the preference, he is contented to request permission to visit me when in town; for which honour, he has promised to introduce the Duke and myself to Some city Societies, which, he says, are very pleasant. This I can hardly believe; not that I doubt but there are very amiable and respectable characters in the City; but if his societies assimilate with his own dispofition, they must border on the ridiculous.
What will your Father say to Neville now? To a descendant of the noble family of Raby will he refuse
3 his
.j
  71
his Daughter? I wish he was fairly at home to try him.
Pray tell jersey that I shall wait on him the moment I come to town. In the mean time, give me a line, as I
* I
wish to hear of his recovery; for there are So many Labyrinths in this Life, that I wish to reduce everything to a certainty before J give it absolute credit.
t
I confider myself as one of the fa
i
vourites of fortune, as I have never, from my birth, met with any circumstance, on which I placed my wishes, but it has fallen out as I would have had it.
My Father and Mother are highly delighted with my approaching union.
Madelina
equally with myself.
N >ur*s.
E
LASCELLES.
72

f
I.
MRS. RAYMOND
T O
L A D Y D E G R E Y.
Yo
UR Ladyship, I understand,
is not unacquainted with our hap piness, which, we beg leave to affure
you, can only be equalled by your own. Our anxiety is now awaken
p
ed for Theodore and his father’s eseape from Algiers, as Mr. Raymond is well acquainted with the nature of that country and its government, as also with the superstition of the
people.
Therefore, the opinion
which the Dey entertains of his life being Safe whilst Mr. Neville stays
in
1
1
f

  73
in the country, will render his escape very perilous and difficult, aiid the discovery of the design may endanger the life of our dear boy.
Your Brother, wdio has kindly called here this morning, tells us, that you have the
letter
Sent by
Theodore to Mr. Lafcelles. I fiiould be highly gratified by a perusal of it, and I am certain you will indulge me, who feel the affedion and anxiety
of a parent on this joyful occasion.. Could you add to the obligation, by dining with me today,
it would be esteemed as the favour
/
deserves by
Your ladyship’s humble Servant,
VOL, IV
MARY RAYMOND.
E

74
THE   lite.
*
LADY DE GREY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Fitzroy Street.
Think I am a very good correspondent. I have Spent most of the time you have been absent, between Lady jersey and yourself. Her Lastylhip is now completely restored to life, by the rapid recovery of Sir William. He has not yet left his room, but in a few days he will be able to do So, when they propose go inc for a few weeks to Harewood.
o
I have promised to accompany them.
Nothing is more delightful to my imagination than presenting the supposed


S
posed lost and injured Jemima, now happy to her utmost wish, to those friends who know her many virtues, and will rejoice in beholding their
reward. She wants the air and Southeast
/
of the country, never having left the chamber of her husband for more than an hour since she was restored to. him. He is a csharadter that is always in extremes, and is now equally attentive as he formerly
was neglectful.
Lady and miss Wentworth
cn C
both well, and are employed, assisted by Sir william’s steward, in arranging his affairs; which, it is bardlv credible to think, could be So much involved in so short a time. No
but the utmost inattention could have effected this change in
I
his. circumstances.
E 2
Lady
^6
«
lady.. told Jemima yesterday, in my presence, that she feared, after all was fettled, there would not remain two thousand a year. To this she very cheerfully replied, “But you do hot recollecf, I have not lost anything; and the other half of our fortune is more than Supplied in the returning affections of my Husband. It is not in the power of riches tobestow happiness, though 'the possession of them niaygive it an additional value. I could be content even to labour for the Support of the man I love; and would think a diadem of no value without his participation.”
Lady Wentworth pressed her to
her maternal bosom, while tears of Section glistened in her eyes. She assured her, that every thin
of
ai
should
  77
should be done for the shattered fortune of Sir William.
During bis stay at lausannej he
<,
had ordered his steward to mortgage his estate in Somersetshire, and to do it quickly, as he could not wait. This must have been done on dreadful terms, had he made application to those wretches who make the northeast ceshties or follies of their fellow creatures their prey; and who, instead of going greater lengths for their relief, the more that their situation requires assistance, make that the moment of extreme extortion. The steward, who is a good man, •and unlike most others in his situation, wtote to Lady Wentworth, enclosing Sir william’s letter, requesting
to know what she thought could be done. She instantly procured a
« E 3 person
>.0

V
pcrson who was to act as her agent, in whose name the money was lent, and the mortgage taken. Of course that estate is free, and will be immediately restored to them.
I am extremely happy to hear of the intended marriage of Lady ma delina and.mr. Lafcclles. I beg you to present my compliments to her Ladyship, and tell her that I shall esteem myself happy in the honour of her acquaintance. This wedding

will be the means of bringing you to town, I hope, before I strall quit it.
You will think me an unaccountable creature, when I tell you that I do not feel So happy at Mr. Northeast
I
ville’s good fortune, as most of his friends here seem to do. If it renders him happy, 1 shall rejoice at it.
Had he found his Father in the defer ta
  79
ferts of Arabia, or anywhere else, pennyless, I should have been much better pleased. It was not the man of affluence that I hoped to meet on his return, exulting in the pride of ancestry and riches. It w’as simply the Soldier of fortune, returning to his country, with ample testimony of his zeal to promote its interest, and a constancy, to which absence had rather given additional strength, than weakened it in the Smallest
degree.
Besides, those riches, of
which his Father is in poffestion, will' perhaps endanger his life.
I dined yesterday with Mrs. ray mond, who is quite the contrary to me. She is rejoiced at her'theodore’s good fortune. She was rather angry with me, when I Said he might
e4
not
io


not feel any additional happiness from wealth.
I am obliged to dress, as I dine in Portman Square. As they are some of them invalids, they dine at an earlier.hour than is usual in London, < therefore excuse me at present, and believe me
Sincerely yours.
LAURA DE GREW f
■ 'Ja?
'  • 81
MISS EMMA VERNON
T O
LADY D E GREY.
Harewood Grove
Have made many excuses for your silence, being too glad of the cause, which I conceive to be your attend
j

very angry
This was an event we could neither expect nor hope. My Father is not pleased with Lady Wentworth; he Says, that it was beneath her ditr
'. O
nity to adl a part in a play, however
And that
happily it might end.
X
was not worth the trial to reclaim. I am not. however, of the fi
lame
e5
opinion.

82

nion, and am anxious to See our
friend to testify my joy.
« _
Every effort that 1 have made has
yet proved ineffedlual, to convince
*
the poor people that Lady jersey is
still alive. She must show herself to them; nor do I know whether this will be Sufficient — they must touch her before they give absolute credit to what they most ardently wish to find a certainty.
I, this morning, rode round the Hall, and felt" the most pleasing e motion, at Seeing the windows open and Servants pasting to and fro, in order to prepare for the reception of its old inhabitants. How general Will be the joy on their arrival! for never was family more adored than that of the Wentworths, and indeed most deservedly. Jemima vas ever
the
1
I
?
  83
the idol of all ranks of people: for never did she hear a tale of woe, that she did not directly administer all the relief in her power. How often have we witnessed the good effects of her bounty i
t
The day that your letter arrived at the Grove, the news was no sooner carried abroad, than our doors were
I
beset with inquiries. There were but very few whom I could convince that Lady Jersey would again vific Harewood.
Mr. Arnold and Maria called here yesterday. Neither he nor my Father approved of the mode of conduct which had been adopted : yet they joined in saying, that they were glad it had turned out So well. Maria and I left them, in order to talk the matter over by ourselves. We were
/
R 6
not
s4

not too proud to be happy on this occasion, I read your letter to her j and She desired that you will tell Lady Jersey, that She felt too much for her supposed loss, not to be a ihongst one of the first who shall be apprised of her return to the Hall; to which place she will joyfully repair to offer her congratulations.
We have a visitor here who will greatly Surprise you. This is Mr. Davenport. He was obliged to come into this part of the country on bust ness, and could not avoid making Clifford Place in his way, in order to pay his respedfs to you. He called on my Father on his way thither. He told him that you was in London, and that he must insist on entertaining your guests. Mr. Davenport
very politely accepted the invitation,
and
r
I
IK


i.'
;
r.
r.

  b5
and has beeen here more than three
0
days. He often Speaks of Sir James in the most affedlionate terms, and says, that he Shall never forget the horrors of the day in which he was lost. I am Sorry that he mentions it So often, as the subject never fails to affect my Father Severely.
f
This morning, after breakfast, Mr. Davenport Said, that he wished my Father would give him an hour’s conversation alone, whenever it should be most convenient. He Said that they would take a ride together, if Mr. Davenport had no objection.
They are gone about hassan hour, and I have sat down in order to Scribble a few lines to you, in their absence.
I have great curiosity to know
what Secret can be between them
both.
C
26

I

I am,
Yours affeclionately,
both. Perhaps my Father will not be communicative. If So, I must still remain in ignorance.
Have you heard anything of Theodore. I have done nothing but dream of him for this week pash Pray heaven no ill has befallen him, both on yours and his own account I shall wait impatiently for thurs.
#.
fe’ennight j till which tinve
EMMA VERNON


THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
WILLIAM RAYMOND, esq.
Gibraltar.
DEAR SIR,
(?»
T is impossible for me to omit giving you the earliest intelligence of my Father and myself being arrived at this place of Safety only two hours ago. A Ship is now just ready to sail, therefore’ic is impostible for me to relate the circumstances of my father’s escape, with me, from the coast of Barbary. That we are here I am Sure you will be rejoiced to
hear,
\
Tell
88

Mrs
felt my gratitude stronger toward you
both than I do at the present moment.

And that I look forward
with pleasure to the time when she
will again press to her bosom him
who will always be proud to own
his numberless obligations to her.
My Father, who is too ill from
agitation of mind and fatigue of
body, to write by this conveyance,
#
orders me to express how sensibly
he feels your paternal kindness towards
me. He hopes to do this in
person very soon. In the mean time
he consigns to your care the enclosed
bills, which you will be pleased to
turn to account the best way possible.

There is but one thing at present
that damps my joy. This is, th

uncertainty

P
*»,
  89
uncertainty whether Lady de Grey, to the pofieffion of whose hand I
now dare to aspire, still retains her former partiality towards me. I know, if postible, you will ease my mind of this burden; for I dare not
write to her until assured that my letter will meet a welcome reception. I ssiall wait anxioussy for a line by the first Ship that sails from England, to be assured of this, as also of yours and Mrs. raymond’s health and happiness; which will always contribute towards that of your
THEODORE.
'
P. S. I have not told you that my Father’ s name is not Neville, but Beaumont. My grandmother’s name, he Says, by the mother’s
fidej
go
fide, was Neville; and he cannot, from any other circumstance, account for the choice of that designation. As to the position in the letter from the incognita that I Should one day be claimed, my Mother must have written to my
Father an account of what file had done, and trusted that he would receive her letter.
withstanding what
— I find, not i have Saidi; that my Father is now writing to you.
e
»
!

I
t

91

5
El
THE HON. CHARLES BEAUMONT
T O
WILLIAM RAYMOND, Esck
.Algiers,
SIR,
Cannot forbear to take the first opportunity of expressing to you the gratitude I feel for the parental ten derness, as well as judgement and liberality, with which you have educated, to virtue and to honour, my Son, our Theodore Beaumont. If his spotless Mother retained, after death, any consciousness, or was enabled to hold any communication with what pasted on earth, it must, have been a Satisfadlion to reflect on
f
the wisdom of her choice, in com
mittin
t '
92

%
r
itsitting her infant to the protection
*
4
f
Mr Raymond; of whose virtues,
of whose humanity, and unim
peacshed integrity and honour, we
were not ignorant, although but
little acquainted personally.
The
last time, and one of the very few
times that we ever, chanced to meet,
was at Widdrington Hall.
You
may perhaps remember, that, in the
Icourfe of conversation, on the Subject
of the ancient conflicts between
the English and the Scots, to which
we were not unnaturally led in the
house of a gentleman, whose ancestors
vere So much distinguished in
those contests; we were drawn on
to make a comparison, or rather contrast,
between former times, feudal
and warlike, and the present, industrious
and commercial.
We

We both of us agreed in tb
93
timent, that there is Something in trade that tends to contract the mind
f
and render it felfilh; that amidst the contests of hostile tribes, in rude ages, and the pecuniary distrestes that are too often the lot of gentlemen of the army in these days, there
is more generosity and honour to be
/
found, than in counting houses, and shops stuffed with the wealth of the Indies. And we lamented that change in the times which made it
necessary, in too many instances, for gentlemen to engage their Second Sons in commerce, as well as those of the iov/est plebeian, for a provision in life.
To Such Sentiments my Charlotte,
i
who was present at this conversation, which pasted, if you remember, in
the

94

r
the asternon, on a Seat formed amidst
the boughs of a majestic and widely
> *
Spreading plane, rising from the bottom of the den, opposite to the windows of the castle, till its leadino;
0
ramifications were on a level with the terraced bowling green : to Such Sentiments, I Say, my dear wife was al was partial, from the time that poor Jacobina Armstrong, who lived with
her on the footing of an humble friend or Servant, or whatever she might be called, Was ruined by that rascal
E -- -- -

— — n of York; in whom, before his villiany was detected, there was not a man in the country but would have placed confidence.
By the bye, dear Sir, will you have the goodness to inquire, by letter to any friend or otherwise, if that poor
I
good wd!fcan be still in life. She
had
.
 . 9^
had a Brother, of whom fly always Spoke with great affection, and with whom, she Said, she would live, if
N
any accident should Separate her from Charlotte, and if, at the Same time, she should be able to overcome that aversion which her brother’s Wife
entertained for all her hushand’s
%
relations, especially those of her
own Sex. The man was in a
very
good situation when I left the country, being arch beadle of D -- -- -- m.
He will know, at least, what has become of his Sister, and I have very particular reasons for wishing to see
0
her.
Theodore desires me to mention to you, that I effeded my escape from Algiers without the Smallest disii
culty.
as not so much as an idea was
entertained of a wish, on part, to
leave
g6 THE   LIFR,
leave a country where I had been So nobly treated.
As Soon as I found the wind favourable, I walked carelessly to the | vefibl, on which Theodore had em.
i
barked the night before, as if I had j had Some bufiness with the captain, i No body took any notice, and before |
I.
my departure could be known or;
;
I was in company withj the illustrious governor of Gibraltar. The Gestation of arms that has taken place between Great Britain and the French and Spaniards will furnish us with an easy and early opportunity of coming to England : till which time, may you and Mrs. Raymond, and all your house, be under #
the protection of Providence. Thus Sincerely prays
CHARLES BEAUMONT.
* «

§7
w
T O
L A D Y D E G R E Y.
O you are nbw ahgry that your Lover is not a beggar I Your father’s only quarrel with him Seemed to be that he was So, I Should like to know what will please you both?
f
l.11 marry him myself, if you don’t
. Return with only hd i* nour and constancy! On my con science, I think a little money of the party will render it the more a^ree** able. If I don’t take him m
L am determined to recommend him
VOL. IV
F
to
» »
98

Miss
/
quarrel with him though he were
** t •
a Nabob. I will have no prudish airs: they won’t become you. Take care, too, left there be not a Spark of pride lurking at the bottom of what you have expressed concerning theodore’s good fortune. Your Father might as well object to the
0
match now., because his family is Superior to yours, as you pretend to raise difficulties, because his fortune is larger,
I am endeavouring to*brighten up my Small stock of charms; for, Surely, amongst: all the weddings, at which I am counting myself a guest, I shall meet with one good-humoured, a greeable creature, who will Say,
‘‘ Will you marry me, my dear Ally Croaker ?*'
I shall


•<
I


99
I Shall Say, yes, is you please, and to church we go.
This visit to the Abbey has ruined all my fine romantic Schemes of living a widow’d life. I must confess that I change my note when I behold, the Duke and Duchess of Mortimer diffusing happiness around them, and enjoying, themselves, a very large portion. I begin now to say to myself, there is Such a thing as happiness then in the married state. What a thoughtless, giddy creature are you. Lady Anne? would you exclaim, were I now sitting by your fide. That is not true, should I answer: : I think as much as any of you; but my disposition is lively, and I hate anything that is an attempt against nature; and fb let my Ipirits run
F 2
away
SCO THE
away with me, Sometimes, in order

to divert my friends.
Oh, I forgot to tell you, that the
Marq
of Arrandale arrived at
Thornley
from the Conti
lien t.
Monday
When
left Pari?, Maj
L
and his
bride, Lady susan, were there; but
they were constantly quarrelling, and
she had threatened him with leaving
him,
Jersey
laiid; when, death to her hopes! the
lyj
mima was living, where Lady susaii
ought never to have been, in the affections
of Sir William. This piece of
news, I am Sure, will give you, as it has
done me, infinite Satisfation. ladyhar
Marq
last stage of a consumption, brought
on by a life of extreme distipation.
4

Arran
r
  loi
Arrandale is a most elegant young, man. He has the most graceful form you can conceive; is not too tall has a fine dark complexion the most expressive eyes imaginable; and a most divine Set of teeth. In addi
4
tlon to all these outward beauties, he
is in postestion of an uncommonlyr
fine understanding, which has been cultivated with the nicest care. He is returned to his family just what their most (anguine hopes could have wished. If I run on at this rate, you will be wicked enough to think I am drawing the portrait of a Lover; but if you did think So, you are mistaken r for there was a corner of my heart, preoccupied before his return, or I don’b know what might have beeiii effected by all the charms and accom
plishmentauf the Marquis, in combi
■ Sv
natioiii

102
nation against the heart of a simple female. Now don’t you endeavour to guess who is in the corner of my heart. I must be certain that I am in full possession of his, before! own myself a wounded deer.
We are all busted in preparation for our journey to the great City: in consequence of which, the anderson family dined here yesterday, in order to take leave. They are determined that we shall not be So eastly quit of their fbciety; for Mr. Anderson Said, that in order to oblige the women, he had, that morning, promised that they should quit Egginton Hall on the very morning that we leave the Abbey, and So travel in company. The Duchess Said, no doubt it would be very agreeable; but that she intended to Spend a day or two
with
f

THE EABYRINTHS OF LIFE. los
with the duchess of D
re in her
No, no, that it fhanst, re
way to town, which would necessarily deprive her of the intended pleasure.
turned he, for in that cafe, we will stay at Egginton until your visit is paid, and then meet you, by your own appointment, at Derby. He Said, he wanted to Show Mrs. an derson the manufactory of the country, which he had not an opportunity of doing when She was at the races; the girls, he added, would be pleased
to see the petrifactions and many
#
other curiosities. La! Pappa, they both exclaimed at once, how can you say that we Shall be pleased to see the putrifactions, you know that we Should Swoon to see a Skeleton; Their father looked abashed; he Said nothing, but nodded his head.
F 4
as

ns
.THE labinunths OF LIFE.
as to Say hold your tongue.
We could hardly restrain our laughter. The Duke, who always feels for those under ernbarrestment, directly started another Subject. He Spoke to the Marquis of the Glacieres of Savoy, asking him if he did not think them wonderful. When Mr. Richard unfortunately exclaimed, The glaziers of Savoy! Lord, Sir! what did they do; I never heard the story, do tell it. The Ladies too joined in the request to the Marquis to tell the story. He was obliged to consess that he had forgot it. They were not So indulgent to him as he had been to them; for they Said, of what use was it to travel, if you forget what happened when you come home. He only answered with a bow. Mrs. anderson asked him, if he had ever
■ been
K’
y
a
if
THE' I; A"BYRIK THS OF LIFE.
IO"?
been attacked by lions, or elephants, or tigers, when abroad? He Said,, that he had very happily avoided, them.. miss Jane Said, if her Brother had ever been abroad, .She Should have been excessively angry if he had not: brought her home a rhinoceros or a parrot, or Some Such pretty bird or other.. Ill short, the whole day was
Spent in Some ridiculous conversation
1
or other;; for when we retired, after dinner, the Duchess and I was malicious enough to lead on conversations on Subjects of which they were to tall}^ ignorant. This was their own fault. Why will they attempt to force themselves into a Sphere in. which Nature never intended them to move?
V
I. hope, to See you ere you take
F
5

wing

i06
wing for the grove. Give my compliments in Portman Square, and believe me,
your’s sincerely,
ANNE WESTBURY.
  IO
LADY JERSEY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
I Hop

Portman Square,
/
e that you will not start at receiving this, as I asture you that I am no ghost, but one of the happiest inhabitants of this world. I have to beg your excuse for not writing before, to thank you for the part you have had in effecting this pleasing reverse in my situation. Do you not wonder how I was able to go through this trial It was a very severe one indeed. I often blamed myself for attempting to do that by stratagem,
which

F 6
V
los
which could not be accomplished by duty and attention. Think of the conflict under which my mind must have laboured, when I was informed that Sir William was going to be united to the destroyer of my peace. However, that I might not actually be guilty of a crime, I dispatched a trusty mestenger to Avignon, who could get an account of every step taken by Sir William, and was, if
he still pursued his intention of marrying, to wait upon him, and inform him of all that had past.
I had written a letter to him, at the Same time, telling him, that as I was now dead to the world, and all the comforts it could produce, when deprived of his affections, to show him how much more I valued his
happiness

t HE L A B Y RI NT HS OF L I F E. lo
happiness than my own, he might still pursue his intended plan, and
rest assured that he Should never hear
1
again that I was in existence.,
I have no doubt but your Ladyship will call this conduct of mine romantic. Sir williams presence in town rendered it unnecessary, or I would have persevered in northwest intention, and have buried myself in: some remote corner of the earth, unknown to all but my Mother and Sister, to whpfe goodness I am more indebted than any language of which I am mistress can express. have both Sat whole days by my pillow, and Spoke comfort when my heart was wrung with afflixstion,
when misery had administered her
«. /
bitterest draught. To that power
which
%■
no
which religion has, when communicated through the medium of, a good mind, am I indebted for ipy present felicity.
All these misfortunes, Lady Anne, now pass through my mind as if they had only been the effect of a horrid dream. They have left that kind of tender melancholy on my fpirift which, I dare say, that you have f^nd it impossible to Shake off directly, on awakening from a frightful vision of the night.
Myramiable friend. Lady de Grey, has contributed her Share towards the general joy. I hope that She will yet meet the reward her many virtues merit. I am anxious to see all my friends as happy as myself.
It gives me great satisfaction to hear that you are coming to town.
Besides


:
\
  HI
Besides the pleasure I promise to mysels from again meeting you, I hope to be introduced to the amiable duchess of Mortimer, and her charming Daughter, Lady Madelina, who, 1 hear, is going to be united to Mr. lascelles, to whom I have uncommon obligations. Sir William has
Shown me Some letters, which that gentleman wrote to him, whilst under his infatuation on the Continent.
Pray hasten your departure from, Thornley. The country must be dreary, and I wish personally to thank you all for the interest you have taken in my fate, before we Set out for Harewood, which cannot be protracted longer than the middle of next week, as the reestablishment
of
Ill 2  .
of my hushand’s health is the cause of my making the journey at this, season;; that being the object.. season is alike to
JEMIMA JERSEY.’,



113
THEODORE NEVILLE
T O
CHARLES VERNON.
My DEAR CHARLES,
When I last wrote to you, 1 Said
there may, and Something tells me there will yet be a time when our friendship will be renewed in its ** original state that time, I hope, is now arrived, and I anxiousty wait at Mr. raymond’s Sora confirmation of my hopes. Hasten hither, then, and put me out of fuspence. I have along with me i Father, to whom S would present my first friend, in wliofe breast you will hold the third

ace.
114
place. Do not refuse me on that account, as the Second I must reserve for one who ever held the first place in my affections.
Charles, I now dare hope that this will be a welcome letter. Yet I would not presume too much, Bring me word that your charming Sister willies to See me, and I will be at her feet in an instant. She will hardly know me, for I am now a Sunburned Soldier. Mrs. Raymond shed tears on feeing me, but they were tears of joy. My best friend too, could hardly give me welcome. My Father embraced them alternately, pouring thanks and blessings on them for their care of me in my helpless infant state.
We shall now be neighbours,
Charles, as well as friends, as Raby
Castle
  II
%
Castle belongs to our family. Little did I think, that day on which I entered that venerable pile of ruins, that it was reserved for me to restore it to its ancient grandeur. This will immediately be done, and I, yet hope to hear its walls re echo with sounds of joy. Only one thing can now prevent the happiness of your
THEODORE,
il
9,
CHARLES VERNOH
T O
THEODORE BEAUMONT.
\

1 HAT we ever were for a mo
ment estranged, you will believe me when I say, I have always been most truly sorry. And, be astured, I am rejoiced that my friend is happy in a Father Such as he merits.
That I am confined to the house with a cold you will not be Sorry, when I tell you that my Sister offers you her congratulations on your prospedl of Selicity; and you have her permission to visit me' — perhaps
you. may have a glance at her en.
pajfant.

%


\
__4
This I cannot absolutely
promise, but I believe you may take it for granted, that you will not quit the house without a welcome from its mistress.
I have a vast deal to say to you when we meet, and I shall think you no lover if more than an hour elapses before I shake you by the hand. I am become a judge of the passion myself in your absence. An arrow from cupid’s bow took Somehow a wrong direction, and has grazed one corner of my heart, that you always Said was invulnerable.
Laura and I are sitting tete a teict which is next in stupidity to that of a man and his wife, therefore, pry’ thee Theodore, come and release me. She wants to See what I have written. 1 shall not comply with her request 5
and,
ils,
and, I believe, I have reconciled her
1
to the resusal, by reminding her, that the longer vre detain the mes senger, the longer will your visit be protracted; which is most ardently wished for by her Ladyship, though she looks So sty and will not own itj and equally So by
Your friend
CHARLES VERNON.

no
CHARLES VERNON
T O
EDMUND LASCELLES.
Fitzroy Street.

X HAT our old friend and Schoolfellow Neville is just arrived will, I am certain, be an addition to the many pleasing events that concur towards the completion of your felicity, He wrote to me, desiring that I would call on him. This I would gladly have done instantly; but I feigned a cold, in order to invite him here, well knowing that laura’s wishes to see him outstripped
3
mine
iio  ,
-, **
mine : though the proper delicacy of the Sex would not let her declare
it.
She did not make many
in

quiries as to how long I had been ill, or what was the nature of my disorder, when I told her that afriend of mine was just arrived in town, and had requested that I would call on him; that, as I found myself very uni

well, I would request her permission to invite him hither. She bluffed extremely, and Said, I thought, Charles, that ceremony had been unnecessary, and that you knew that any friend of yours was certain of a welcome here.
Well, replied I, but this is rather a particular friend, and, I would hope, does not want any of my interest for his welcome.
She
  I 21
She would have carried on the farce, but Nature interposed, and would not allow if. She burst into tears, and Sunk into a chair near
where she stood. She Soon recover
#
herself, and Said, what a poor creature is your Sister, Charles — any
little Surprise overcomes me — but I know you can feel for me. I assured her that I had ever done So; and
\
then left the room, in order to an f^ver neville’s letter, and give her lime to compose herfelst
She came into the next room, in which I was writing, and begged that I would not mention her name
I
to my friend. On this Subject I did not consult her.
\
We Sat each as anxious as if our future fate had been to be deter
VOL. IV
G
mined
122
«
mined by theodore’s arrival. At length the wished for rap announced him. Laura begged that she might retire, which she did. He entered the room in as great agitation as she had just left it.
After our mutual congratulations, he Said, I did hope, from your letter, that your Sister would have been at
, And pray, Said I, who has told you that she is abroad } — excusc me, Charles, but my own fears have made me apprehensive— — she? You are Neville, I see, still as impetuous and hasty as ever. Laura will see you before you leave the house. I told you foin my letter did not 1 .f Yes, Said he, but I thought you intimated that you was a lover. If So, you cannot wonder
at my ihconfistencies.
I then
IS
THE   liffh. 123
1 then asked him to give me Some account of his Father — of the siege of Gibraltar, cc. all of which he attempted, but I found that he
was just like .Don Felix, in the Wonder, .dress me these Violante's.’*
I Sent a Servant with a request to my Sister, to allow us to wait on her in the drawing-room. She returned for answer, that (he would be glad to see us. I really felt for them both. On our entrance, they muttered out Something. Neither of them knew
was Saying, I am
what the confident’ — but it Served for an introduction, I never Saw my Sister look So interesting. I might have been at Gibraltar, or wherever I
liked : for Theodore had neither eyes or ears for any one but her.
C 2
Oil
124
m
On taking leave, he begged permission to introduce his Father to Laura. This she very readily granted. I shall wait on him in the morning, and conduct him hither.
I know not how my Father will relish neville’s altered situation; but as his principal objection is removed, I think he can never resuse his con sent out of mere obstinacy. If he does, were I Laura, it should not be asked a Second time.
O
What is your opinion. If we
f
are obliged to obey, yet we are not absolute staves to our parents. Were I as certain that the woman whom I adore had the Same affection for me, I should hardly think of ashing he consent of any one.
We
  i25
We are all going down to hare wood the middle of next week j yet I shall expect to See you before I leave town. Should this be impracticable give me a line.
Yours,
CHARLES VERNON.

C'vv ‘’‘i V tv * " •
L '-: X
r
‘ A
THB
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY D E GREY.
I
9
\
\
Grosvenor Scpare.
E are not destined to meet, I 'find. How very unlucky that you Should leave town on the very morning of the day when I arrived in the evening. However, I will excuseyou: a certain young hero hastened your departure for the Grove — am I not right.raby Castle is happily in the vicinity of Harewood. The elder Mr. Beaumont is going to take pos festion of his estates, and Theodore will accompany him.
Your
\0
i
I
r



Your Father cannot in justice re suse his consent to his Daughter union with the Son of the representative of the ancient family of Raby„ I give mine most freely. You know that I refused it to Theodore Neville. Let Mr. Vernon take my example. If he won’t. i’ll positively tease him into it. I don’t often Solicit the male creatures. Let him beware.
Lady jersey too, has taken flight
with you. If I had not brought my Society along, with me, I Should. be as dull as if left alone in one of the Subterraneous caverns in derbyshire:
: lest Thornley Abbey on Monday morning, and the andersons
at the same time..
.vtiginton
The duchess found it would be im
to travel.without them; and
g4
as
128  '
. as She had been So much indebted to them for amusement, while in the country, She was determined to let them take their own way on leaving it. She therefore Said to them, that She would defer her visit, which indeed She had no intention of making,
-- -- re, until
to the duchess of D
her return in the Spring, for the pleasure of their company; at which they all Seemed mightily delighted. Mr. Anderson, that Same evening, hinted to the Duke, that he had a few loosc tholishnds lying idle at his bankers, and if his Grace could find a use for them, they were much at his Service. His Grace very politely declined the offer.
'i
What a pity they are not neighbours to Some others of the nobility
that I am acquainted with, who
could

  12g
could make use of their owri and everybody else’s loose cash ^
The Duke of Mortimer is too independent for these good-natured people, for he could not confer a greater obligation than to borrow their money.
Richard often tells a story of his being once at a hazard club, when a poor devil of a Lord was refused credit for five pounds, and when the master of the house offered to lend
him five hundred before his face Ah Dick, Said his Father, that offer cost me three hundred, though.: — Of I was truly glad. I would always have pride and arrogance thus punished.
I wish you could have Seen them on the morning of our departure. Every description that my pen can
G?
give

when compared with
arrived
give IS
the original pidure. about eleven o’clock at the Abbey. The Duke and the Marquis had been long looking for them.. At len
, the Marquis cried. Lady Anne, pray come and look at our baggage wagon I ’tis arrived. I went to the windovv when the first face that presented itself was that of a large tabby cat. Opposite to her was a
cage, which contained a grey parrot, fereaming, Oh pretty Poll. The family were totally in the back
The Marquis Said to the duchess, pray. ma’am, can you inform me as to the point of etiquette, which am I to hand out first, the cat or the parrotmrs. anderson’s voice being heard, the point was Settled. The
•marquis
y


Marquis had before supposed, that' the first coach contained only the.: dumb domestics of the. family,.
The servants were obliged to remove, not only the two animals before mentioned,, but also a basket:
which contained: two kittens.
A
couple of spaniels saved them the trouble, by leaping out the in the door was ooened, j
At length the Ladies came out.. The lady mother was decorated in;
t
a scarlet great coat, with gold binding and gold frogs. She looked like -
a bale of scarlet cloth in a woollen --
/
draper’s shop, Tor she was esadlly the.. same Size from her shoulder to her foot. She had an extremely finally
whit
>
ing,

beaver hat, with a gold bind --
and an immense broad band of; the same, and two watches, and ai
G. 6
vast:
132  .
vast number of rings on her fingers. The young Ladies were each in green and gold great coats, with black velvet belts and steel clasps that almost covered their waists.
The Father and Son, who descended from the next carriage, had on, I really believe, as many clothes
I
as the grave digger in Hamlet.
They were much surprised on entering the parlour to find us sitting in morning gowns at breakfast. Why Surely, my Lord, Said Mr. Ander son, you are not going to disappoint us? why, you are not thinking of travelling? No indeed, Sir, that I am not, fitid the Duke, it is a Subjest that I by no means like to think upon, except I cannot avoid it. Dear heart, they all repeated, then you wonst go? Yes, replied the Duchess,


  i33
ckess, we only waited your arrival; the carriages will now come round in
an instant. Oh dear, then, laid Mrs. anderson, I wish I Was your Grace, I could then do everything So easily as you can. Why, 1 have been busy these two days, and indeed I am hardly ready now. Why, I was all day yesterday Seeing the pics and tarts made ready, and making Mr. Ander son’s drink. What, Surely, replied
Lady Madclina, you don’t mean to give an entertainment on the road? No, no, my dear, Said she, but one
is Some times hungry, and a little bit of tongue or tart is very good; besides we have venison and poultry in the Seat of the old coach, as Mr. anderson cannot eat the fowls that are fed on dunghills. Well, said the Duke, I always take these things
as
rj4
as I find them. I am Sure always to:
get good mutton, with which I. amd content. Well, Said the. cit,. buti like to carry my store along with me. Will your Grace give me leave to be ' caterer on this journey ?' With pleasure, he replied j you can hardly do me a greater favour. Thus both of,
them were pleased.,
The carriages coming up we Saw the elegant group again Seated, and then got into our respedive carriages.. The Duke and duchess, Lady ma delina and lascelles, in their post coach. The Marquis of Arrandalc’ requested a Scat in my post-chaise, which was followed by the domestics.

When we alighted to dine
we were surprised at Seing a Superb dinner Served up in an alderman like
style.
Mr
ordered
/

135
ordered this two days before. The Same kind of entertainment, ordered at each stage where we were to stop, awaited us, until we reached London..
♦
I am persuaded, if our journey had
t
continued two days more. Some, if not all, of the Anderson family must have died of Surfeits. I never Saw Such a constant routine of eatin?
O
and drinking since the week that St, Auban came of age. The stores, as they called it, were exhausted on the morning of the day before we reached town. They then were obliged to
m
■fill their pockets at dinnertime with cakes, almonds and raisins, aonles
'' 1 i
and oranges in abundance.
/
t St. Albans we were to part, he Duke then desired that he might
account of our expenses
4 No
\

1^6
No, that you won’t. Said Mr. Richard, my Father intends to travel down to Egginton, in the next Summer, at your grace’s expense. The Duke insisted on paying hals of the bills at least, but was as positively refused. I have no doubt but they would defray all his ordinary expen ces, could they contrive to live in his house, or even next door, as they did at the races at Derby; though they would not advance a Single Sixpence to relieve merit in distress, or to raise genius from obscurity. — Shame on Such charadfers 1 I cannot bear to think that they exist, and that I am of the Same Species.
I would give more than you at present imagine, to be of your party, Perhaps, if I had an invitation, I might steal down to Harewoed.
to


  i37
to See how you all look, and then return to town I Say steal down, having promised Lady Madelina not to be absent a day, until she has changed her name. — It is time that
I should Subscribe mine, or you will be tired of
Yours,


ANNE WESTBURY.


IS
THEODORE BEAUMONT
T Q
CHARLES VERNON.
A HANKS to my friend for his
kind assistance the evening before he left town, in endeavouring to remove the obstacles thrown in my way by his amiable and lovely Sister; who, I must Say, did not ad with her accustomed candour. Has she not proved her duty as a Daughter Sufficiently? Is she for ever to remain under the control of her Father? I allow that his reasons, for disapproving
of
me
for
a Son, were
well
rounded when he gave them’; but
I can

I can, by no means, think that they should continue to influence his mind now that they do not exist.
I once Said, in a letter to you, I believe, that I would never ask the hand of your Sister of your Father., In the circumstances in which I then stood, had I posteffed an empire, I never would. But now, being on a footing of perfect equality I
to be admitted to urge He will not be so cruel
f
If he
my
as to reject my preten does, I am proud to say, that I hope
right of
I have ah difpofil is Superior to his. I shall, I know, have your good wishes for fugcefs. My Father has more than,
once exprested his, finee he Saw Lady
* •
de Grey; I Say since, because he had,,.
, endeavoured to reasoii.
me
140
me into what he called proper pride.
This is what actuated your Father
in Ills resiifal of me as a Son. He
Said, I ought not to think of an alliance
with any family who had treated
me as yours had. I could not induce
him to make a dislindlion between
Laura and the rest of the family.

He Said, that I ought not to
think of Laura again; but when he
Saw her, he Said, that he would no
longer contend with my inclinations
but would wait on your Father, and
know what were his objedlions to an
alliance with one of the family of
Raby. This I have declined, as I
well know both their diipofitious.
Your Father is, excuse me Charles,
very obstinate, and might refuse,
only because he had done fb before.
.. j
h? been used to
have

THE EABYRINTHS OF LIFE, II
have everything just as he wished it. So that a resufal would provoke him So much, that he would make a breach that nothing, could remove. 1 would wish to See how he will
treat me, before I hazard my father’s
#
receiving an insult. You will say a word for me, if postible. I shall be at Raby Castle in a few days, wheiij^ expe<51; to hear again from
K f
your’s,
THEODORE BEAUMONT.
\ V
14a
LADY DE GREY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Clifford Place,
WISHED much for you to have
That beiiip; imo

been of our party, possible, I will endeavour to give you an account of our reception at Hare wood.
We pasted on very agreeably and
very quietly until we came to M -- --
where, at the inn where we alighted, we were surprised to find every room full, except one that was purposely reserved for us. They were occupied by Lady wentworth’s tenants and
old
  143
old pensioners, who had oi; dered a dinner to welcome her Ladyship and to rejoice at the return of Lady jersey. The instant our carriages stopped, every window was occupied, and those that could not get a place, rushed into the street. Upon jemima’s a iighting from her carriage, they all, as if with one voice, gave three cheers. This grateful mark of kindness had So great an effect on laet Wentworth, that it was Some minutes be fore she could get out of the coach. This was intimated to Some who pressed near the door of the carriage, and they instantly went into 'the house; as, also, did the honest creatures who were at the windows : So much respect was paid to this deservedly esteemed family
Aftef
144

After we had taken Some little refreshment, and were going to proceed on our journey to Harewood, the door was opened, and a venerable woman rushed in and ran to Lady Jersey, whom she pressed in her arms, crying, Happy, happy! She could not say any more for sometime; but.kisssed both the hands of her Ladyship alternately. Miss wtent worth said, it was the person who had nursed her Ladyship, and whom I soon recollected. She said, that she hoped the gentlefolks would pardon her, but that she could not wait their arrival at the Hall, when she heard her darling Lady would come and bless her eyes once more with a sight of her. We all assured her that we were glad to see her. Lady Jersey thanked her for this last mark
* of
  i45
of her affection, 'Ah! replied She, you had like to have been my death; I have never had a happy hour since that dreadful day, when I thought I had lost you for ever. Sir William was greatly agitated; though not more so, than any man must have been, who reflected on the part he had acted, and was a witness of the Scene He desired that the nurse might return to the Hall in his carriage. Miss Wentworth took a Seat in mine
4
We called at the Grove, in our way. Indeed, it would not have been posti ble to pass the gates. My Father had illuminated his house; in the
centre of which,, was a transparent
painting, with the figure of Virtue, crowned by Love, and underneath
j
The letters were made
with Small variegated lamps, I can
VOL. IV
H
not
1

not tell you how happy my Father and Sister, as well as the rest of the family were to see Rady jersey. My Father was particularly attentive to Sir William. I thought that very considerate in him. They took coffee, and we proceeded to the Grove; Emma and my Father accompanying
us.
When
the steps, on each fide, were filled with the children of the School which Lady Jersey had raised and Supported: the Same that I told you carried torches before her supposed corpse. They now held wax lights in their hands; and made a very pretty appearance, from the similarity and neatness of their dresses, which were grass green, with white aprons, and tippets, and straw hats. They had each a little bunch of white ribbon
. ' on
  i47
on their left breasts, in honour of
/
the present joyful appearance of their
patroness.
On our alighting.
Lady
Wentworth ordered them into the Hall, and that they should have a crown and a glass of wine each, to drink Sir William and Lady jerfey’s health : after which they departed. Sir William begged our excuse, being but an invalid, and retired. We Spent a very happy evening; after which I returned .with my Father and Emma to the Grove: for he would not let me go to Clifford Place that night, as, he Said, he had Some
consult me about in the morning. I could not guess what this could be. But, on my returning to my chamber, Emma told me that it was about her; and, she had rea son, she added, to believe, that my
thing to
H 2
Fa
148 THE LAEVEINTHS OF LIFE,
Father wished to speak to me. Mr. Davenport has asked permission toad drefs Emma; and, I find, Ihe is
partial to him. I Said everything to my Father, in order to persuade him to consent to their union. Mr. Davenport is an amiable man.. He has not So large a fortune as my Father could wish, but quite Sufficient for two people whole affections are united. I believe he will make: them happy; at least, I shall do all in my power towards it.
He has not yet mentioned Theodore;
yet, I think, I can See that
'^
he wishes to know my Sentiments concerning him. This he shall not do, until I know what are his. I am quite decided in my own mind. I See you laugh at this Sentence, and say, I don’t know when you was in
I
doubt
  140
^ \
doubt. I won’t write any more on the Subject. ^
your’s,
LAURA DE GREY.
P. S. I expect to see you, next week, at Clifford Place, if only for one day. I musl not be refused.
V
h3
150
THEODORE beafjjvfont
T O
JAMES VERNON, Esq.

SIR, ^
THEODORE Neville has received
too many marks of kindness from your family, to allow the guarded caution of a parent to obliterate the grateful remembrance, that, as the
friend of your Son, he had been cor
*.1 * ■ '* " *
dially received, and hospitably entertained.' He will not now speak 'of the presumption which, in the doubtful character he then was, lost him your favour, in the hopes that now he has an unequivocal title to a name, Such as you can admit,
you
  IJI
you will allow him again to pay his respects at the Grove, and to
present to you a Father, who is ambitious of procuring for his Son the honour of an alliance with. your
the
remain
Sir,
Your obliged
THEODORE BEAUMONT.
152
JAMES VERNON, Esq
TO
THEODORE BEAUMONT.
SIR,
\
S the friend of my Son, my house was, and is, always open to you. I Shall be very glad to see your Father, if he will do me the honour of a yifit at the Grove; in expectation of which, I fubscribe myself
Your humble servant.
JAMES VERNON.

153
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY DE GR K Y.

Grosvenor Square..
Your account of the reception
of our Jemima at M
and at
Harewood was just as it Should have been. I pasted, in idea, through every Scene, and Saw the lively countenance of Lady jersey lighted up with Sensibility and gratitude for the unfeigned marks of affection with which she was honoured'. I pitied Sir William. Though it was a
triumph that it was proper he should witness, it will prevent him, I hope, from, ever again relapsing into liber
•5
ti n i Srn

154 *rhe labybinths of life.
tinism; which, 1 really believe, half
the men of the present day enter into
• •
merely because they will not be out of the fashion. They are asraid to let any good trait in their charaders appear, lest they Should be laughed at, and would rather affect a vice
with which they are unacquainted, than expose a virtue which they really postess. This is shocking, but 1 believe it to be true.
too, is So much the rage, that you can hardly get a male creature to walk the length of Hyde
Park, from Piccadilly to Kensington Gardens, without a je Juts fatigue. One poor thing was, last night, absolutely expiring, occasioned by walking through about twenty chairmen
to call up my Servants. At length, after two or three of us had fanned
* him,
  155
him, he recovered Sufficiently to hand me to my carriage. I should not have minded this affectation, as it is So common, had the man been a delicate looking animal: but he was a perfect Hercules, and might have challenged every one of the chairmen
through whom he had pasted, for bodily strength.
And So, you say, that you will take no refusal. I must positively come to Clifford Place. Well, to show you how very good-natured I am, I will do as you desire, after next Monday, the day fixed upon for the celebration of the nuptials of my friend Lady Madelina and Mr. laf celles.
s
I am quite a match maker — am not I? This is the reason, now I think on it, why you wish for me So
H 6
near
156
near you. i’ll do my best to make you all happy, and then it will be my own turn to think of a hushaiid. No! that won’t do — the husband must first think of me. Women in that case Should be like ghosts, who
never Speak until they are Spoken to.
/
I Shall always remember that lestbn.
Beaumont does me the honour of a call every morning, just that he tnay have an opportunity of talking of you. His Father, whom I greatly admire, is also become very lavish in your praise. I think you may take your choice, for both Father and Son are at your Service.
I think I remember hearing a story told once of a nobleman, who went to give his Sanction to the nuptials of his Son, and finding himself
so enamoured of the Lady, that he
■ took
4
!
  Ijy
took a Second thought, and courted her himself. The Lady took the highest title, and with that made a a transfer of her affections from youth to old age. This became the fashioii, The lady was a celebrated toast, and no man was looked at, for Some time, under sixty.
I have long entertained Some thoughts of your Father,, if he was a little older If I don’t marry him i’ll tease him; which, in the present days of refihement, are. almost syno nimous terms..
«
I have a vast deal more to Say, but
»
must go to dress. I \yili Scrlbbl the rest tomorrow.
(A
■■w
your’s,
ANNE WESTBURV
15-8
FROM THE SAME
T O
THE
SAME.
Grosvenor. Square.
T Should Seem that I am in the
country, and that you are in town,
while I write two letters for your
one.
I dined yesterday at the Duke ^
mortimer’s with the anderson Sa
mily, who are now almost constant
visitors. Mr. Richard did not shake
one of the party. His Mother Said
he was engaged to attend a club, of
which he had lately had the honour
of being elected a member. On
his appearance in the evening, we
all

the labyrinths, of life. 159
all of us judged that the club was held in bedlam,, or Some Such plac«, for he actually had a fhank bone of
mutton, striped round with gold leaf, pierced through, and fuspended from the buttonhole of his coat.
r - ' '*■
Of this ludicrous appendage he Seemed prodigiousty proud. The Marquis of Arrandale was the first who
took notice of it. Why, Anderson, Said he, what is this, for heaven’s Sake? What is it! why, what I intend that you shall have the honour to wear before this day month. Shall I? replied the Marquis; I am afraid it will cost you Some little
trouble before you accomplish it, though. So it will, Said Richard, and Some little expense too; but hang it, I don’t mind that, when it is to Serve either you or the Duke.
They

l6'0
They bowed, and he proceeded. Do you know that I proposed you both to the club this evening? Let me See, who will black ball you! What club, replied the Duke ^ Did not ye know that I am a knight of the knuckle. Said Dickey, in a tone of exultation? and i’ll lay you Sour hats that you are both knighted next club
night, ril take your bet. Said the
Marquis, but let me know what you mean by Sour hats? Why, that is the way that we lay wagers in the city: one, two, or as many hats as ye choose, and a very good way too -- Aysht it, my Lord? The Duke laughed heartily at the conceit, and
Said it was certainly very proper to promote trade.
Mrs. anderson Said, that her Son
had had it greatly at heart to have
them.
  ll
them made knights of the knuckle. Indeed it was not every one who could be admitted to Such distinction, but that her Son was greatly beloved in the city.
Mr. anderson told us, that the
original bone, which was a beef bone, was kept at the lodge on Blackheath, and that if the Marquis would ride that way Some morning, he would procure him a sight of it.
Can you conceive anything So ridiculous as this institution? I was
in doubt whether it really existed or not; but I have been since afifured, that there really are Sober citizens poffested of a rage to be singular, who, on certain occasions, dangle this mutton bgne about with them,
and
162 THE  .
and also that the custom of
hats i
IS
Mr. lascdles was
the
honour of knighthood after the Duke and Marquis had attained it. They begged to wave their pretensions in favour of dascelles; but
this they were not allowed.
_ _ _ %___________
We laughed moii he^irtily at the idea of the Duke s going to eouit wearing the insignia of the order.
I think that Lady Madelina and Mr, Lafeelles bid very fair tp make a very quiet domestic couple, which, in these days, is almost a novelty. He has introduced Theodore to her Ladyship and the family. I will not tell you all they Said of him to mt, lest you should be jealous, I believe
Lafeelles vyas rea would not own it.
so, though he
The
  j63
The elder Mr. Beaumont is quite a Savourite of the duke’s. He has promised to make him a visit at Raby Castle in the Spring. Lady Madelina and Mr. lascelles have also promised to accompany the Duke and duchess.
You See that you will have a great deal of company, So pray make haste and get your house ready for their reception; for I know that Clifford Place will be deserted for Raby Castle.
I have just received a letter from poor Emilia Fitzalleyne. She Says, that she is much better, and that her little Harriet is very well, but that she shall never recover her lost Spirits. Her misfortunes are constantly in her view. She has heard, she Says,
that
164  .
that the wretch who has forever destroyed her peace, is by no means
happy himself.
May
ever be a stranger to his breast.
Yours,

ANNE WESTBURY,
  165
THEODORE BEAUMONT
T O
LADY DE GREY.
Pall mall.
Yo U have, doubtless, heard from
your Father, that I have written to him, Soliciting his permission to wait on him, and to introduce ray Father. Both of these requests he has granted; ' but I raentioned, at the same time, what was nearer to my heart than either; to which he made no reply. I have been often told, that, with females, silence gives con fciit. Am. I to interpret Mr. vernon’s silence in this manner? Were
I cer
l66'
\
I certain of this, I should be too happy. I will not believe that, were your Father not averse to our union,
you would refuse to bless me with
(
your hand, after the many wretched hours I have pasted. Nay, you almost promised when we parted, that if Mr, Vernon gave his approbation you would not be cruel any longer, Charles was a witness to this.
I shall be at Raby Castle on Monday next; on the day after, I shall go to the Grove, there to await my final doom. Until that day is pasted, I shall be a most restless, discontented mortal.
I have Seen my friend, Lafcelles,
S
since you left town; and, if anything could raifemy Spirits, whilst in horrid fuspence, it would be to find him So well in health, and So near the completion

1^7
pletion of his happiness. He has introduced me to his intended bride, and the
family, which form a most'amiable group. They exhibit a most finished picture of polished manners and domestic happiness.
Lady Anne Westbury, too, I very often see; and the' more she is seen the more will she be admired. She is all life and spirit. My F ather says, her’s is the best kind of wit: for, though it is full of point, it never aims a wound at any one. Do you know that I am certain she entertains a a partiality for my friend Charles? For she frequently introduces his name when we are Speaking of very different Subjects. She one day asked me, if I knew the reason why he
t
had never married? Perhaps, said
she.
l68
She, he may have been an unsuc cessful Lover? I assured her, that besore I went abroad, when I was honoured with his confidence, he had never intimated to me any partiality of the nature she hinted at; and, that since my return, I had no thought of talking to him on the Subject. But that, if her Ladyship was at all interested, I would Soon ascertain the point. Oh Lord! no, said she, not I, indeed! blushing excessively. She afterwards took uncommon pains to beg of me not, on any account, to mention her name when next I wrote to Charles. Nay, she threatened ipe if I did, I will not tell you with what : but it had Sufficient weight, with me, to extort a
t
promise of Silence. This promise did not extend to you; but I beg
that
  16$
that you will not hint to her Ladyship that I have written on the
. I hope Charles is partial to her; it would, I am certain, make you very happy, to See him united to So deserving and amiable a woman. I owe her the utmost gratitude. When my heart was wrung with the deepest Sorrow it can ever know she Spoke comsort to me, while the tear of pity involuntarily stole down her cheek; and at my departure from Truro Point, she pressed my hand with the feeling and warmth
of a friend, when I did not know
*
I had one in the world. Her tongue refused its office, but her looks Spoke the finest fenfibiiity. She gained a Lover at that time, in Major Grenville, a brave Sstdier, and a most accomplished gentleman. He Sell
VOL. IV
1
the
170

the Second day of the siege of Gibraltar. A cannonball went directly through his body while standing by my fide, and he never Spoke after. I lost a very constant friend, and with him the means of Speaking of you. He and I have sat hours together, when disengaged from duty, talking of that dreadful day when he first law you. He determined to ask Lady Anne westbury’s hand direstly on his return to England; but, poor fellow, he can never return; and after
9
him I know no man So deserving of
her as Charles.
0
If you honour me with an answer, try to find whether his heart is pre engaged. In the hope of only one line,
I remain,
moll alfedionately, you r’s, THEODORE BEAUMONT.

I
71
LADY JERSEY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Harewood Hall.
Yo
U, I am certain, will forgive
my neglect, in not writing before, when you are informed that the health of Sir William, who was never a Secondary object with me, was in So very precarious a state as not to admit of my bestowing a moment's thought on anything elfe. The Physicians very much feared a consumption, but since we have been here, he mends so very rapidly, that
I 2 they
1j2
I
they afisure me there is not now the least danger.
Let me then, my dear Lady Anne, offer you my best thanks for the many very friendly visits I received from you, when my distreffes had brought me to the brink of the grave, from which I have been preserved by your conversation, which Suggested a hint that has effedluallv restored me to life and happiness. It is im« postible to express the conflidl which, in that interval of danger, I Suffered. It is now past, and I will not revive it, even in idea.
You cannot conceive how much I
I
was rejoiced last night, to see the old turrets and window's of Raby Castle illuminated; which was done in honour of the arrival of Mr, Beaumont and his Son.
■ Sir



Sir William and I exult in the
good fortune of Theodore. He was a great favourite of us both.. 1 could not help condemning the uniieceffary feveritj of Mr. Vernon to that young man. Surely his dependent situation was Sufficient to protect him from insuit, from a feeling mind. There
is a morose Severity about Mr. Vernon that will always hinder him from receiving the tribute due to his virtues; ■ for Some he certainly does poftefs but pride is very predominant in his charader. We cannot think how it is possible for him to give his appro. bationto theodore’s union, with Lady de Grey; not that I think it ought:
to be asked. The motive, if any mo
\
can actuate him to Sanction their
C
union, must be an interested one and therefore the height of meahnefs*.
I 3
We
174 '
We are told that Mr. Beaumont and Theodore are to dine at the Grove on Thursday; but Sir William can
hardly give credit to the story. They
*
have promised to Spend Saturday with 11?, when Lady de Grey will also be of the party. By that time I shall be able to give you Some real information; as I know that you are always much interested in the fate of your friends, and most particularly in that of Laura; whom I yet hope to See happy; though, like myself, She has had most Severe trials in its attainment.
My Mother and Sister are both well, and beg their best compliments. Sir William desires me to use mv interest,
y *
in order to reinstate him in your good graces. He Says, that he will provide you a good husband, just Such a
one
  i75
one as he intends to be. I implicitly believe everything he wishes me. Do you have the same complaisance, and add to the numerous obligations already conferred on
JEMIMA JERSEY

14
i; 6 HEX, ab.yrin th5 OT EIF.E
LADY ANNE WESTBURV
T O
LADY BE GREY
»
X HERE never was any one woman So hurried about the affairs of other people as mysels,. Why, I am the very High priestess of marriage, I was last night, in Portland Place,, present at the ceremony of matrimony between Lady Madelina andlascelles,
t
There was no one present but the fa mily, except myself and the elder Mr.. lascelles: his Lady could not be there, being confined at home by 'illness., We contrived to do very well without

out her. Madelina looked,, as she always does, extremely lovely; lascelles.. most bridegrooms do,, enraptured with his bride. The duke and duchess were very happy at the disposal of their Daughter,, when she: had So good a prospedl of felicity..
They might have
got a., better
match for Lady Madelina; but the Duke Said, for heavens, sake,, where; it is possible,, the hand and. heart go together;, let not little paltry’ interest Separate them... This Senti -- ment was liberal.; and l.wish, my soul, it was, more generally adopted.. Her fortune is thirty thoir sind pounds, paid on.the dny of marriage.
an estate worth about four. thousandi per annum and, at his death, anoi^ then falls to him, worth about three
Mr. Lafcelles gives his Son
I 5
thou?
lys
4
thoushnd more. They may contrive to live upon that.
The andersons are highly affronted. I don’t know but, they will give up their attendance on the Diicheh, Mrs. and Mlfs anderson had given a vast many very broad hints that they wished to be asked to the wedding. The Duke Said, that they were very absurd good kind of people; but that he could not think of being plagued with them on So Serious an occasion, and desired the duchess not to derstand any hint they might give. theresore, to prevent them from the poshbility osbeing'ashed, the Duchess was denied to them, and she has not beard a word of them since.
Lady Madelina and Mr. lascelles Set out, about two hours since, for
Petersham, to pay their respt^ls to
his
uni

 179
I
his Mother. They will not return for Some days. So, now that I have done with them, I am thinking to come and try what I can do with you all at Harewood.
My brother tells me,. that it is time he should provide himself with a housekeeper; for that I am fb complete a gossip, that I never stay two days in a place. Well, let him 5 I care not: Sori will not be controlled by any man; at least, not by a brother; that I can sell him.
I have just got a letter from Jemima. She tells me, that Beaumont is arrived at the Seat of his ancestors, and that she hopes to See both him and you as happy as you deserve; to which most cordially do I fubscribe
your’s,
ANNE WESTBURY,
18o THE. , LIFE
d
THEODORE BEAUMONT
T O
EDM.DND LASCELLES
Raby caiue..
T was with the highest satissac? fadfiori that 1', this morning, heard from Lady Jersey of your marriage
with the amiable Lady Madelina,
May your present happiness know
%
no other change than that of increasing affedfion.
Only think, Edmund, that Lshould be writing this from a room in that very castle of which I, Some time ago, was So curious to find out its owner; and that I should have tray
4 veiled

l8r
veiled to Algiers before my curiosity was gratified, and there found him in the person of my own Father. It stems to me like a dream, when I restedl on the labyrinths that have led to the discovery who my real parents were.
We reached this place on Tuesday evening. My Father had Sent people down, immediately on our arrival in England, in order to prepare Some few of the apartments for our reception; for I had given him an account in what a ruinous state the castle was. None of the rooms were habitable, but that wing, which, when I first fiiw it, the old woman resused tolet me see, saying, that I must excuse her from showing that as it was Lady mary’s appartments, and. was haunted..
Little
182
Little did I then think that this Lady Mary was at all related to the unsortunate Theodore. She was my father’s Mother, and it had been reported that she haunted that part of the house, on account of the ill treatment that my Father and his Sisters received from the last Lord Raby that inhabited the castle.
This did not hinder us from occupying the most habitable rooms, though it was impostible to get any
of the people who were in the house when we arrived to go alone into any room in the castle.
My Father was very sensibly affected, on our first entrance into this venerable pile of ruins. He Said, it revived in his memory scenes that had been most dear to him. That he had hoped, if ever fortune
brought
  1b3
{
brought him again to this castle, to have had a partner to Share his joy at revisiting the Seat of his ancestors. of one who had had more than a share of his Sorrows he could learn no tiding. That She was no more,
must be certain, or Ihe would have
•» /
inquired after her Son, and have owned him.
I Said and did everything to divert his mind from Such melancholy thoughts, and I imagined I had, in Some measure Succeeded, when, yesterday morning, a post-chaise drove up the avenue. My Father was
walking round the outside of the castle with a surveyor, giving the necestary directions for its repair, when he just came up as the carriage stopped.
An
1
<
i
i84’ 'THE TABYRINTHS OF LIBS.
An old woman alighted, and ashed which was Lord Raby, My Father answered, my name at present is Beaumont, What, nay good Said she, do not you know Agnes, to whom you lest the care of your good Lady, when you. quitted England He instantly took her by the hand,
?
and led her into the house,.
I had
joined them by this time. Agnes, Said my Father, do you know this boy.? Know him. Said she! aye indeed do I; he is my young master,
I
your Son.
She Sat down, and’my Father beg ed her to be very circumstantial in her relation of all she knew about my Mother..
She, told him, that after he left
her Lady, she mourned continually,.
that in a very short time she found
herself

hersels with child, which in present circumstances, greatly added to her grief: that while She continued to receive letters from him she fuppiorted her Spirits, but when 1 had embarked for a foreign land, she entirely gave herself up to def pair: that She had witnessed his uncle’s, treatment of his Mother and
Sisters in Silent anguish, being unable to relieve them, and in Some measure accusing herself as the cause of that Severity which they So undeservedly experienced.
This pained her So much, that she resolved to remove from th country. Accordingly she and. I came to London, bringing with us what little property she had, which amounted to. between eleven and

hundred pounds, I think.
Wb
l86
We both took a lodging, where Ihe was brought to bed of my young master. She was much worse in her health after her lying in, and she used constantly to be talking of what was to become of her darling child, Should stie be taken from him; which. She said, would Soon happen. I told her, that whilst I lived, lie
should never want for a friend that
* /
would watch over him with all the tenderness of a parent.
She was pleased to press my hand to her lips, and Say, that she was well asssured of my fidelity. But that she wished him to be properly educated, and to imbibe the notions of a gentleman; that if ever providence should restore his Father, he might find
f'
him Such as his fondest hopes could paint.
To
/

To accomplish this, is heaven should even Spare her lise, was impossible. Her little fortune was inadequate to the task. But Ihe had frequently turned it in her mind, and was now, dearly as it would cost her, with my assistance, to put it into pradfice. I asked her what it was? I shall never forget it, I am Sure, Said Agnes. She raised herself up in the bed, and said, this then, Agnes, is my determination : I know a gentleman who posteffes a most noble and liberal mind. To his care will I entrust my fon; nor Shall he know to
whom he belongs. I will Send with him one thousand pounds, that is nearly all I have. If ever his
Father returns, it will be before that Sum is expended; and I Shall take care by letters to inform him where
I have
i88
I have placed him, should I never live to See his return.
I advised her to Send for this gentleman, and inform him of her Situation, requesting him to take charge of the child.
This she refused to do, saying, I will neyer be presented to my Child as a beggar, which I must be, if his Father never returns. I know Mr.
f
Raymond and his amiable Lady too well to doubt their care of an orphan entrusted to them. I have ever heard my Father, who went to School with Mr. Raymond, mention him as pos? Seshng great fensibility., To. him shall you carry this Child, after
Swearing to me that you will never give the Slightest hint to whom he belongs, unless he is ill treated; for I entreat you to watch oyer him
whea
WE  . 1b9
when I am gone, as fbon I shall hef If ever his Father returns, I know that he will reward you.
I would have persuaded her from this, but she was determined. She Said that there w^’as no alternative. Either she must adopt this plan or die in uncertainty as to the future fate of her infant. That when he was received by Mr. Raymond,, she would be certain of his having hispro testion; and that, as he had no child
of his own, Iheodore would be'cer tain of finding a Father in him.
1
Accordingly, the very next evening, after many Severe struggles, my dear Lady tore herself from her beloved infant, after shedding torrents of tears on its little bosom, She put her own picture, a bank note of one thousand pounds, and a most:
affecting
190
affecting letter, into a purse, which, with the clothes belonging to the
child. She put up in a bundle. She pressed the babe osten to her breast, Saying, God knows, my Child, what Severe pangs I now Suffer to ensure you protection in your infant state, and perhaps to restore you to your Father and family : to which may you one day do honour 1 Take then a mother’s last blesting. She knelt down and prayed, that heaven would direct his future life, and lead him
to his Father. With this (he gave me the Child, and Said, go, Agnes, take him from me, lest I Sacrifice his welfare to a mistaken fondness.
I did as she desired, though heaven knows that it was Sorely against my will. She called me back thrice, e’er I reached the bottom of the
* stairs.
  i91
stairs, to take another look at the insant, who was Smiling in my arms. At length I reached Mr. raymond’s, and, following my mistrefs’s directions, left the Child.
When I returned, I found its unhappy Mother almost in a state of distradlion. She questioned me a thousand times how I had conducted myself: but as I told her the truth Ihe believed me.
She sent me the next morning into the street where Mr. Raymond lived, in order, if postible, to find out what was said about the child, and how it had been received. I by
accident met one of the servants, who assured me, that Mrs. Raymond had determined to bring up the child with great care. I did not Seem at
first to know whose Servant stie was;
but

192 THE   LIFL^
but on asking her to show me the way to a street not Sar off, during our walk she told me the whole story of the child just as it was.
I hastened back to my mistress with this intelligence.
She
was
happy to hear that the child would be taken care of: yet she was Sorry, I could perceive, that she had let it go. She was very visibly in a de* dine, which, in about two months, put 'a period to her existence.
She made me Swear again, when on her deathbed, never to disclose to any one but to you, Sir, where your Son was left, whilst he was treated with that fatherly kindness which Mr, Raymond, at that early period, showed towards him.
I have kept my word. It was only last week that I, by accident,
heard
  i93
heard of your arrival in England,
I
and I followed you to this place, in order to obey the wishes of my dying mistress.
Here Agnes ended her most inter resting talc.
Under what obligations, Edmund, am I to this amiable parent, who, from my birth, had preferred my welfare to her own happiness, and who Sacrificed her own future east; to procure mine?
The Subject was So affecting, that my Father wept much. He told Agnes, that she should be provided
for in our family; for that, 'whilst she was alive, they should never part. The good old creature was extremely rejoiced. She thinks that one of my Aunts is alive. One, she knows, is dead. We shall make every nek
ceffary
VOL. IV
194 labyrinths m
ceffary inquiry towards finding her out, and I hope we shall be fuccess*
full,
I have written you a very
letter, but it was impostible to leave off just in the middle of my story. I know you too well to fuppose you have been tired with reading what so nearly concerns one, in whom you have ever taken so warm an interest.
We go tomorrow to dine at the Grove. How different are my ideas flow, from what they were when I
was driven
Scorn from that
place.
1 do not expect to
Lady de Grey there. Indeed she informed me yesterday, in answer to a note that I Sent to Clifford Place, that she should not See her Father
week
called
upon
  195
upon her. I know you wish me success.
It hurts me much to ask Mr, vernon’s consent to address his daughter, but she will have it So; and I shall, as I ever have done, make her will
f
a law.
I have Seen Jersey. He mends apace. Lady jersey looks divinely. For her Sake I am heartily glad of his recovery. He was always a sort of favourite of
y ours.
THEODORE BEAUMONX,
\
io

LA DY DE GREY
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Am extremely glad that you have promised to obey my Summons. Herd is one, standing very near my elbow, who is rather more interested than even I am in this point. V I shall not tell you who — come and See. I do not think your Ladyship will be at a loss for a husband, is you will take one of my recommendation. He is a little bashful, but I will promise you that he is, or was, posfested of an excellent heart, for I
* believe
  i97
believe it is at, present. in grosvenor
Square,
I was yesterday Sent for by my Father. I guested the subject he was to Speak upon, and was prepared. He was quite alone when I arrived, and Said, I fuppose, my dear, I need
not tell you that Mr. Beaumont and his Son dined with me yesterday. Theodore and I are now friends a
4
gain. Indeed I had no quarrel with the young man, except that I not think of giving my daughter to one whom no body knew.
I have Sent for vou to know, if you still retain that partiality in his favour that you once I know possessed; which did, and, I mush own, still gives me much disquiet. Here he was stlent waiting for my
reply.
k3
I am
tgb

I am extremely Sorry,
to be
the constant Source of uneafiness to you, v^ihilst I am Sacrificing my own peace to your pleasure, I need not
recount
that I have ex
a con fidetable
m It
Perhaps, had I been more candid when you fi: rst: inquired into the state of my Leart, both of us had been Spared many Severe refledlions. i will now own to you, that my affections have, and ever will be in the postesfion of Theodore Beaumont, although I assured him, when he Solicited me to render him happy, that
your con Sen t was still necessary to the disposal of my band. There is not now any obstaele to prevent your giving your approbation to our union,
and
thsr  T. I
and as Such, I cannot suppose that you will again, give him an affront.
My Father Said, that,, to be surcj, he had no very that in point of fortune he was now

]|uperior,
as
•. 9
to family, out Qwn vas equally an
we
\
no ti
annex
ed to it
It was
opinion,
that I ought not to marry Mr,
, out of respect to the me tnory of Sir James die rey. But
that, if I was deterrninedi in order
** * •
to preserve my character frotn ccn^ Sure, he should no, longer oppose my inclination; at the Same time saying,, he was very iinfortunate in having his children always rim, county?
to his wishes,.
that I did not knovv:
• »
my Sister and Brother might
K ^
have
200

have done to deservesuch a reproach, from which, however, I ought to be exempted. — He was filent. I had given up my hand once to please him, and I thought it but just, that in a Second engagement, my own as fetstions should be consulted.
Indeed I was determined, had he refused his consent to our union, entirely to disregard it. This, you ■will Say, was not like rny general conduct; but my Father displeased me very much, and I had nearly lost my temper.
I Spoke to him also, at the Same time, in favour of Mr. Davenport, He Said, that he had already written
his, Sentiments to that gentleman,
and that he expected to see him at the
1 - - ?*• _ ■
Grove Sometime in the next week.
He

  2QI
He spoke very highly of the elder Mr. Beaumont, who is going to claim the title of Raby on his fan’s, not on
his own account.
I had like to have forgot to tell you, that Mr. and Mrs. Raymond are at Raby Castle, exulting in the happiness of their adopted Son, who feels for them all the affections of a real one.
Mrs. Raymond was here this morning just to say a few words in favour of her Theodore, who She thought had Sufficiently proved his constancy to meet with a reward at last.
We all dine this day at Lady wentworth’s. On Sunday they return the visit to the Castle; and on Tuesday I am to receive them here, I shall expect you by that time.

k5
Pray
\
202
Pray will you write to poor Emilia, and inquire the maiden name of
her Mother, as I believe it is more than probable that fly was the Sister of Mr, Beaumont. If So, desire
Emilia to put her little Harriet into a post-chaise, and come diredfly to Clifford Place. What leads to this supposition is, that in emilia’s melancholy narrative, she Says, that her Mother was in the family and a great
favourite of the late Lady R -- -- -- -,
Here is an old Lady at.raby Castle, who Says, that Mr. beaumont’s Sister was in that family, and much beloved. I hope to find that that poor unfortunate woman is Niece to Mr. Beaumont. Pray write directly, as
we are all anxious to have this ascertained.
Fray
'SITE t ABTRINTHS' OR LIRIK. 203
t
Pray present my congratulations to Lady Madelina and mr..dascelles,. should they return to town you quit it. And hasten to?
LAURA DE
X
204
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
EMILIA FI.DZALLEYNE.
V
}
Am Sure I Shall be forgiven when I confess, that, 1 have related your * story to a most particular friend, who sympathises in all your Sorrows, and wishes, if poshble, in Some Small degree, to alleviate them. She begs the favour to be informed what was the maiden name of your Mother. IS, as she believes, it was Beaumont, I entreat that you lose not a moment, but put yourself and Sweet little Harriet into a post-chaise, and I will
convey
 . 20§
convey you to an Uncle, who impatiently waits to embrace you both.
■ I was extremely glad to find that you was Settled So much toyour liking, and I yet hope to see both your health and Spirits restored.
I am So anxious to have the question of my friend answered, that you
4
must excuse this Short epistle of
Your friend.
ANNE WESTBURY
/
TRE  ,
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
RECEIVED your ladyship’s letter late last: night; and I take the earliest opportunity to make my acknowledgements both to you and the Lady, who, you are pleased to Say, is interested in my fate.
My mother’s narne was Beaumont; and, I have often heard my Father say, that she was come of a very ancient family 5 but, being very young at the time, I made no eii
My unfortunate attach
quiries
jnent
 . 20/
ment caused me to be from home during my father’s last illness, or he would, doubtless, have informed me where my relations resided.
Your Ladyship kindly desires me to take a post-chaise instantly, and come to you, in order to be presented to an uncle who impatiently waits to
embrace me.’^
For this intention
amongst many other acts of kindness, I beg leave to offer you my thanks hut, I can, ^ by no means, think of accepting the offered blessing, to which, in any other circumstances, 1 should have most readily have accepted, How, Lady Anne, could I present myself to my relation, and hope for his favour, when, perhaps, my dishonour may be the only stain to an ancient and honourable house?
Would he not Spurn me from him,
^ and
2o8
I;
and with justice? Let not my name ever be mentioned, I would not have the memory of my parent Sullied by her daughter’s shame, I shall take particular care that my name shall never offend their ears, whilst
r
I shall ever pray for theirs, as well as your happiness..
The idea of the comforts I have, by my imprudence, lost, adds a still Severer pang to my breast, which I, yesterday, thought could not admit of any additional woe.
Adieu my benefactress;; allow me to call you by the name of friend: though I have forfeited all title to that honour.
I have the paper now lying before me, wherein I see, that about a
month ago Mr. R
lost his wife,
I
who

  209
who was, 'as the Same paper informs me, in a deep consumption af.the time he married her
yours,
EMILIA FITZALLEYNE.
* •
210
LADY' ANNE WESTBURY
T O
MADELINA LASCELLES;
glifford Place.,
I AM Safely arrived at this delightful place, in good health and Spirits; the latter, you know, you and the j)uchefs say never fail me..
If there is any unpleasant circumstance, I am always fortunate enough to arrive in time enough for my share of it. This has been my cafe at present. But I will relate my story as k happened.
On.
the  . life
IS
Oil tuesdav, when I eame to Clif
•/ ^
ford Place, 1 found the house full of company : the Wentworth family,. Sir William and Lady jersey, Beaumont and Theodore,, and Mr,
i
As they were all intimately acc^uainted with me, I pre
myself in my riding dress, and was mo st cordially received by every
one
at, pa
who Shed many tears at
eris'

meeting. After tea, the company fe < paratedfinto little chatting parties in different parts of the room. I took an opportunity of Showing Lady de Grey the letter which I had received from Emilia Fitzallyne previously to my departure from town, and which had affected you So much on reading it; which, as fooii as she
she went and put
had
into
T <
212
into the hands of the elder Mr. Beaumont, who read it over many times; and I observed him frequently wiping away the tear of pity that stole down his venerable cheek.;. At length he put it in his pocket, and composed
himself as well as he could. He came
(
up, after Some little time, and taking me by the hand, said, I find I have another obligation to your Ladyship, It is your generous protection to that poor unhappy girl my Niece to which I allude :
unpunished who. has wronged her, I assured him' that I did not confider
r
him under any obligation, as I had but done my duty, Theodore came up, and was very earnest to know what we had been about. He Said, that he had overheard a great part of our
discourse, but could not find out the
fub
but the rascal shall not go

  213
Subjedf to which it related. His Father Said, that it was no matter, and we
Separated.
After having spent a most agreeable evening, we took leave of our friends, and they returned to their respective homes. Lady de Grey and myself sat down and talked on different fush jeds for about two hours, and then retired to rest.
We had scarcely breakfasted, be fore a Servant arrived from Raby caf tie with a note to Lady de Grey, expressing these, or words nearly to the same purport:
B E not alarmed, my dearest Laura, when you hear that I am gone from the Castle without acquainting my Father of my journey. My motives Shall be fully explained
on
214 'THE L ABY'RINTHS Of LIFJE,
on my return, when, I hope, that you will applaud the resolution which could tear me from all I hold dear on earth, at a moment when my happiness was So near its completion. A very few days will remove your anxiety, and; give additional felicity to
Your ever affedlionate.
THEODORE BEAUMONT.’’
On the receipt of this strange epis tie, Lady de Grey burst into tears. This greatly surprised me, as I const dered it to be a mere love letter — that Theodore had forgot to kiss her hand at parting; or had only, perhaps, Said good night once; or had not appointed the hour when they were to
meet
IS never to
  '215
meet again; or I don’t know what: but teats I could no way account foi ■she gave me the letter, saying, at the Same time, my have an end I was equally astonished ' with her Ladyship, though not So distrested. We endeavoured to account for his departure; but, after numberless conjectures, we were still in uncertainty. In about an hour after, arrived the elder Mr. Beaumont, as a Servant had told him that, previously to his young master’s departure, he had Sent a letter to Lady de Grey. The old Gentleman, therefore, came for information as to the route of his Son. Lady de Grey Showed him the letter she had received, which threw no light on the affair. Whilst they were conversing, a thought struck me, and I
asked
2i6
asked Mr. Beaumont, whether he had Spoken to his Son on the subjest of
V
the unfortunate Emilia or no? To j^vhich he replied, that he had shown Theodore her story, as lent him by Lady de Grey, ‘ upon the Supposition of her being related to the family, and that he had been greatly affected on reading it; but that he had not Shown him the last letter She had wrote. This, he Said, was now in his waistcoat pocket, which, being in haste to come to Clifford Place for information, he had not yet changed. Upon this he put his hand in his pocket, but could not find the letter. He Searched his other pockets, to no purpose. This fully explained theodore’s departure to us, and alarmed us greatly, for there was no doubt but he was gone in pursuit of Mr.
R
1
  217 -- -. in order to call him to ac
R -- -- --,
count for his base conduct to that unfortunate woman. Mr. Beaumont
I
was greatly agitated, called him hotheaded, rash boy, and Said, ' that he Should follow him instantly, and that Lady de Grey might depend on hearing from him the instant he Saw his
Son.
Poor Laura was unable to
Speak, and Mr. Beaumont departed. I endeavoured, all in my power, to comfort her ladyship, but found every effort ineffectual, as stie was well astiired, she Said, that She Should never See Theodore alive again. She resigned herself to the most immoderate griefi I thought it proper to Send to the Grove, and beg the company of Mr. Vernon and family, telling them what had happened, I found it was only the day before that
VOL. IV
L
Z'
Mr,
2i'8
Mr. Vernon had given bis consent to the union of Theodore and Lady de
Grey, and that the meeting of all the
%
friends of both parties, whom I found on my arrival, was in honour of the joyful occasion. I was extremely wretched; coiifidering myself as the cause of all this misery, as, if I had not brought poor emilia’s letter, hap piness would still have been a guest in this family. However, I am yet in hopes that tranquillity will be restored by the return of our Hero. I shall wtite again tomorrow: : the mean time, I remain, with best compliments to Mr. lascelles,
your’s,
ANNE WESTBURY.
yhe  . 21q
THEODORE BEAUMONT
T O
CHARLES BEAUMONT,
DEAR SIR,
STOP at the first post town to ive you the reashii of my Sudden departure from the Castle; and, at the same time, to beg your excuse for a liberty which I took previous to my departure, in reading a letter which I found in your pocket, and also carrying it away with me. Was it pos fible to remain inadfive and be acquainted with the Sentiments, and also related to Emilia Fitzalleyne? ee i Sides, I have your Sanction for what'

I mean
%20
I mean to do. You, Sir, Said to
4
Tady Anne Westbury, in my hearing, ‘‘ the rascal shall not go unpunished, ” or words to that purpose. A few moments before that, I observed you read a letter attentively, and Saw a tear steal down your cheek. This determined me, if possible, to get post'eshon of that letter; and having done so, nothing now remains but to Search out the villain who has betrayed the unfuspeding innocence of Emilia, and either force him to do her justice, or give me Satisfastioii for the injury done to my family. One of these he shall do; for I will pursue him to the earth’s utmost verge, being determined that he shall not escape that chastilement which his crime so justly merits.
Had
  22-1
Had I, Sir, asked your permlfiioa to have taken this step, I feared lest your affection for me would prompt you to refuse it. This is my only excuse to the best of Fathers, for giving him a moment’s pain, Ret me entreat that you will be cautious, lest Lady de Grey Should find out the cause of my absence, She has witnessed already too much affliction to be unnecelsarily alarmed. I do not fear the encounter terminating in my favour: the arm of a villain is ever unnerved. Should it be otherwise, and I Should fall in the cause of Emilia, be cautious how you break, the tidings to her for whom, and
I wish to live. Tell her that it was imposhble to avoid the step I took; that 1 entreat her to be a comfort to you : and that I am cer
LS
taiu
222  .
tain she must have hated the man who could have Seen a Father filed tears for the injimies his family had fussaioed in the person of an helpless and an unprotected female, and not avenge their wrongs.
O O
1 go most cheerfully in pursuit of. R —
— - —, and entertain not the Smallest doubt but • we shall all meet to complete that happlnefs of which I have but just began to feel the
I remain,, Dear Sir;
your’s affectionately
’IHEODORE BEAUMONX
1
the  LIFE^ 2z3
LADY MADELINA lascellea
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
Your
Clarges Street.
last letter, I must Say, greatly surprised me but the mystery was Soon aster explained by the
arrival of Mr. Beaumont.
I was
then alarmed in my turn, for he made very earnest enquires after Mr lascelles, who was gone to ride over to Petersham, in order to visit his Mother, who is not Susticiently recovered to remove to town. I told him that I expected him back to dinner, and entreated that he would
one. of the party j to which he
4
re
224 THE
replied, that he had come from the country in haste, and that he had a little bufiness to transact that did not admit of his accepting the invitation, but that, at Seven, he would return, when he hoped that Edmund would be at home and disengaged He Said this So gravely, that I Seared there was Some misunderstanding between. them. He took his leave j
and I waited impatiently the return
«
of Mr. Lafcelles, to whom I related what had pasted. He Said, it was
impostible that Theodore and he Should quarrel: for that the last letter that he had received from him was in congratulation on our marriage. This, in Some measure; quieted my apprehensions, though it did not abate my curiosity. At
Mr. Beaumont
would'

would not come upstairs. He desired that Mr.. lascelles would Speak to him alone. He went down stairs leaving me with my Brother, who had accidentally stepped in to dine with us. In about half an. hour a Servant called Arrandale downstairs
N
and I was then left alone. Solitude increasing my fears, I rang' and de -- Sired a Servant to say to Mr. lascelles,. that I wished to Speak with him for
one moment; He instantly came toj me, and was greatly alarmed feeing; me already pale with fears begged! to be made acquainted with Mr. beaumont’s errand. Of this, here
plied, he could, by no means, insormi me, as it was a matter which required Secrecy: but, he affured.me,, most Solemnly, that he was no ways concerned. That, in, order that L
Cs
might
22d* THE  ' SEISE.
might not be in the least alarmed, my Brother, be Said, had undertaken what Theodore came to request of him, and that he was certain that there was not the least risk in the office, or he would not have allowed
Arrandale to undertake it
I was
obliged to Seem Satisfied with this answer, though I, by no means, was so. Mr. lascelles went downstairs again; and, in about half an hour after, they all three came upstairs and, drank tea; after wshich, my Brother ordered his carriage, saying, that he would Soon return. He. did not stay more than half an hour;.
and; on coming into the room, he
I
Said, Well, I have done the bufi finefs.” ^ They then retired into the next room, and I was again left in a state of fuspence* After a little consul

TH®' . 227
fustation, Mr., Beaumont and my
Brother took their leave.
Most
happy was I that Mr. lascelles did not go of the party. I then employed all the persuafion that I was inistress of to find out this mystery, but it was quite ineffectual, until I showed him your letter,, and then, he Said, well, I see that you are already in pofieffion of the Secret r Beaumont has challenged Mr. r and he came to desire me to be his Second, should he accept it. But your Brother knowing how much you would be alarmed, should the affair transpire. offered to undertake the.
office; and has just been to wait on
/
-- -- with a letter explaining.

Mr., R
the business, and demanding satis saclion immediately for the insult offered to his family. He has given
L„ ^ 3
him
228

him two hours to determine, whether he will publicly take the hand of Emilia Fitzalleyne at St. george’s church, as Soon as decency will permit, (the death of his late Lady being too recent to allow of his marriage at present) or give him the Satisfadlion of a Gentleman tomorrow morning at five o’clock. Mr. lascelles Said, he had no doubt asto the alternative he would take; for that he had not courage to fight, he
was certain.
Mr
and
Arrandale were gone to St. james’s coffeehouse, he Said, to wait the answer
of Mr. R
We were also
anxiously waiting their return, at home. I had promised lascelles not to take the least notice, on their return, that 1 was acquainted with
their business. After near three hours
4 of
THE'  ,
229

of Suspense they came back. My Brother cried, Vidloria I Vidloria! lascelles. Well then. Said Edmundj Lady Madelina need not leave the room, as she has been acquainted; by Lady Anne Westbury, of the affair in which you have been engaged. They then Sat down and
read the letter which Mr. R -- -- -- returned
in answer to Mr. beaumont’s;
which I have transcribed' by his leave.
M R. R
T O
THEODORE BEAUMON.D.
S 1 R,
I hxvve received, by the hand
of the Marquis of Arrandale, your
letter;
230 THE   LITE;
letter *, and must, in answer to it. affure you, that there needed not the
interserence of a third person to com
\
me to take the hand of miss fitz allyne, the place of whose residence 1 have not been able to learn; or I Should have written to Solicit her forgiveness of him who is unworthy of So much excellence, and who has not experienced an hour of real hap piness since he was shparated fronic her.
However, Sir, do not Suppose that you have extorted this confession from me; as, I assure you that
I am ready and willing to meet you at the time and place mentioned
by your’s,. and also by the Marquis of Arrandale.
will be delivered by Colonel
THE' L ABYRINTHS OF LIFE. 2 I
Smith, who will settle every thin according to your wishes.

I am
Sir

.
Your most humble Servanti
R

To this mr.j Beaumont returned for answer,
\
S I
1 HAVE received yours, the hand of Colonel Smith, and beg. leave to affure you, that I do not wish to intersere any Sarther than she happiness of my cousin, miss
F itz
2112
Fitzalleyne, is concerned.
Your
proposal, I doubt not, will contribute towards the restoration of her peace of mind, which is all.the satis fadtion I (hall require. She will, in
a.few days, be at Raby Castle; at
which place,, a vifit.fropi Mr. R -- -- -,
will be esteemed an honour by
THEODORE BEAUMONT.
  233
LADY ANNE WESTBURY
T O
LADY MADELINA LASCELLES.
Your letter was most welcomej on many accounts j but particularly So to Lady d’e Grey, who was, until it arrived, in a state worse than even death itself: for I confider suspence in this light. We have now time and Spirits Sufficient to applaud the conduct of Theodore, as much as we had before condemned it; and we shall greet his return with tears
of joy. He has accomplished for Emilia Fitzalleyne, what the most:
Ullr
234
unbounded affedfion, I am assured, never could have done. self preser vation adluated that creature, Mr.
R -- -- --, to do an act of justice that
his own breast never would have led him to propose. It is my advice, that Emilia be never made acquainted with the part that our Hero has taken to accomplish her happiness. But rather let it Seem a voluntary act
of Mr. R
— -- -- -■, as her dispofition
is too noble to let her be happy,, if
/
she knew that he married her to avoid fighting; which is literally the: cafe.
You have, by this time, the elder
/
Mr. Beaumont with you, as his anxiety for his. Son would not let him delay a moment on the road. This last act of theodore’s has ained him the entire approbation of
Mr.
I
i
I
  235
0
Mr. Vernon. He Says, it was acting with Spirit and propriety; and that if every poor girl had Such a champion

there would be fewer Scoundrels,
and modest women would not be put to the blush every time they go abroad, by beholding the errors
of their own Sex; whom, though' they may pity, yet they should not
always condemn. This idea I can very easily enter into, from having Seen it exemplified in the person of Emilia, a poor defenceless female, Scorned and basely deserted by the very wretch whose last drop of blood ought to have been Spilled in her defence. I doubt not but there are: many others of my own sex, whose Sensibility and ill placed confidence have plunged them into an abyss of misery, from which no friendly hand
is
236
is put forth to relieve them. I have often seen, on beholding Some of these unfortunate females in public places demean themselve with a degree of propriety and modesty, that,
on such occasions, I have observed
»
even virtue lay aside. I thought that an institution might be formed, patronised by Some woman of fashion, that would Separate Such objects from others who are wicked from inclination. You will answer, that there is one now in existence. So there is t but what I mean, is to genteel Subsistence not on So degrading a plan as that already established'. For I can easily conceive, that Such a woman as Emilia Fitzalleyne, and it is only for Such that I would be an advocate, would shrink from mixing
with Such creatures as might get ad
m istio a
a
i
THS  . 237
*
mission to the Magdalen, though poverty, with all its attendant horrors, should stare her in the face. How delighted should I be, if my fortune was competent to the execution of the plan I have formed in idea, to
See a number of my own Sex rescued from a situation, from which the un adulterated mind must look back with horror? But enough of So unpleasant a Subjedf.
Lady de Grey Says, that she hopes very Soon to See your Ladyship in this part of the world, as Mr. Beaumont has told her of the Duke of mortimer’s promise of visiting Raby Castle very Soon, and that Mr. laf cclles and your Ladyship mean to join the party.
Sir William jersey is quite recovered; and you would be pleased to
see

see him changed into an attentive, a miable husband, whilst Lady jersey is one of the happiest wives in existence. They were here yesterday morning, just to inquire after the runaway: the epithet by which we
now distinguish Theodore.
Lady
jersey observed, that she was happy to find that the days of chivalry were not quite at an end, and that one knight had stood forth a champion for the Sex.
I thank heaven that he js Safe and likely to return Soon; for no poor creature was ever So teased as I have been with him for Some years past. I have nothing now to do but get him married; and then, I hope, when he is himself happy, that he will give me a little respite, and let
me laugh whenever I am inclined to
do
  239
do So. Besides, I have not now time to attend, for another impertinent male creature has Started up in order to torment me. As for him, I intend to punish him at mj leisure. You will be wishing to know who this unfortunate being is, on whom I am
denouncing my

vengence
Well
then i’ll tell you : he is no other than
I
Charles Vernon, who has taken it into his foolish head to fancy that, as widows and matronly Ladies are now the bon, he should like to be in fashion, and therefore Solicits the honour of my ladyship’s hand. I have laid all in my power to discourage the young man; telling him that I (hall be a very tyrant, that I am the most capricious being in nature, that what pleases me today I am certain to hate on the next, with a hundred 5 other
2^4-0
other little anecdotes of mysels that might deter any man less bold than
himself. However, he Says, he wants
only my con Sent to brave all thesb dangers. What do you advise me to
do with him? Your answer shall de
\
the future fate of
. <
your’s,
ANNE WESTJBURY,
\
.i
 241

THEODORE BEAUMONT
T O
1
1


L A D T? D E GREY
M
/
Pass mail,
T is with the greatest pleasure
that r write to inform you that I have fettled the business for which I tore myself from your Society, in a manner very pleasing to myself, and in a way, at which, I am certain, you will be rejoiced. You have been informed, as Lady Madelina laf celles tells me, of the object of my journey, therefore I (hall only say, that Mr. R — —, with whom I had.
at his own request, yesterday, a per
VOL. IV
M
fonal
242
fonal interview, intends to renew his addresses to his own wife, as Soon as decency will permit. I cannot help thinking that Emilia has a title to the name I have given her, as She certainly once considered herself as
married to Mr. R — —. He Speaks of her conduct towards him in raptures, which only Serve to aggravate his injuries to her. But as he determines, as far as is now in his power, to redress them, I must be content
I
if she is folie excused his conduct to me thus : that he was under obligations to his Uncle R and the Lady whom he was to marry, he very unfeelingly Said, had one foot in the grave when he led her to
church.
I greatly approve of what Lady Madelina communicated to me, as
Lady
/
  243
Lady Anne westbury’s opinion, concerning emilia’s not being made acquainted with the manner in which
Mr. R
-- -- had been induced to conr
Sent to marry her. She has too much sensibility, I am Sure, from her manner of writing, to give him her hand if she knew how the promise was extorted. Therefore I desired Mr. R— — ■■ ■ take no notice of my interference, and gave him a direction to Emilia, desiring him to write to her as, he Said, he had before intended; of which I greatly doubt the truth. He Seemed much pleased with this, and promised to do So immediately. We had Scarcely determined on this before my Father entered the room to my great furprise. I took him aside and told him what had passed, upon which he shook
M 2
me
244
\
me by, the hand, and desired to be

Mr
this wish
was immediately complied with by me; and after Some trifling explanation, my Father determined to go himself and bring my Cousin, with her little Harriet, to town; and also to be the bearer of Mr. R -- -
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- s penitential letter, which he promised to send the same evening, as he did; and my Father Set off early the
next morning for Yorkshire. I am
%
now impatiently waiting his return, to accompany them to the Castle;
wfill join
at which place Mr. R -- -- -
us, and privately receive the hand of. Emilia, on that day when you shall condescend to reward me with yours. This, I hope, you will not protradi very long, as we have both of us experienced in our own persons, r and
t t
  245
and witnefted in that of oar friends, too much of   to admit of delay where it is not necessary. You have too much goodness, I am certain, not to forgive
the pain that I have occasioned to you by this last step, as it will be the means of restoring peace to one, in whom, though unknown, 1 know, you took a particular interest. I know that Lady Anne rejoices in this termination of the affairs of Emilia.
She is ever the friend of the wretcli
/
ed, and has always the felicity to see her endeavours for their happiness crowned with success: the brightest reward that a mind Such as hers can wish. There is only one thing now wanting, to fill the measure of my joys. You will e guess to what I allude; the union of
m3 Lady
\

246
Lady Anne and your Brother. I am Sure she is partial, and I know that he is much attached to this amiable woman; who, I am certain, despises
the idea of the inequality of their fortunes, though this renders him unable to express how greatly he a dores her. Let us assist them, my dear Laura: excuse me for this liberty, but it is a name you used to allow me to call you in less happy days, and for which I shall ever pofiess the most unbounded gratitude.
Theodore Beaumont will never forget, that Laura Vernon preferred the poor and friendless Neville, with nothing but his sword for his inheritance, to the rich possessor of Clifford Place; and that she Sacrificed to duty that constancy over which ambition had no power. Every hour of my
fu
the   uee.
247
future life shall be Spent in proving how highly the bleshng is prized
by

Your affectionate?
THEODORE BEAUMONT.
^ 4

/•
248

LADY MADELINA LASCELLES
T O
LADY ANNE WESTBURY.
V -- f
Clavges Street.
My answer Shall determine your
future fate — did you not say So? I will not believe you So insenfible to
merit, or So indifferent where your
<
own happiness is so materially concerned as to abide by my decision. Indeed did I credit this last assertion of yours, I stiould be very cautious how I gave advice on sh nice a point. Mr. lascelles, to whom I read your letter, says, that women always ask advice of their friends, after they
have
/
  249'
have determined on the Subject in
* »
question themselves; and that then they never apply but to those who
I
will advise them to what they themselves wish. Now as this is shy case, he desires me to give my opinion freely, and depend upon a proper attention being paid to it; which is, to marry Mr. Vernon, of whose cha
radfer I entertain a very high opii

nion.
Edmund Says, that as marriages are made in heaven, yours must b happy one, if a union where each
party has an equal share of good-humour and benevolence, has any claim
«
towards felicity; and that if you will ensure your own happiness, you must lay aside trifling with one who he is certain deserves you, and he and I will come and return the compli
e a
M
ment
/25o
ment which you So lately paid us, in attending our nuptials. Indeed, Lady Anne, if you are but as happy as I am, I need not wish you to protract the time.
We are extremely glad that the affair between Theodore and Mr.
R -- -- -
-- terminated So well. He tells
me that his Father and Cousin are expected in town this evening. I desired that she might be my guest until they departed for the country, but Mr. Beaumont informed me,
9
that Mrs. Raymond had come to town purposely to receive her, and conduct her to Raby Castle. However, I mean to wait on her tomorrow morning, as Theodore will not
»
suffer his Father to stay more than one day in town, he being So impatient to complete his union with
M 6 Lady

0
✓
Lady de Grey. His Father, he says will be for staying until he Has made good his claim to the title of Raby. This he is determined shall be postponed until he is honoured with a title he thinks of much higher value,, which is that of husband to your fair friend.
My Mother says, that ill as She is inclined towards the country, she will accompany us to Raby Castle, to join so happy a group. The Duke is determined to come down, and arran dale to accompany him. Only give the word of command, if you are so absolute as you would have it imagined, and we will be in our chaises instantly.
I forgot to mention that I had a vifittrom the Anderson family a few days ago. They have not been to see
m6
the
^5

/
the duchess, as (he affronted them by Hot giving Mrs, anderson and the Ladies an invitation to my wedding. It was rather rude, as Mr. Richard had made a piece of poetry on the occasion, and he intends to punish me by not letting me See it. They all came with most prodigious large white and stiver Savours pinned on the breasts of the Ladies, and stuck in the hats of the gentlemen. I never
considered that this was done in honour of my marriage, but was actually looking about to See which of the young Ladies I was to congratulate on commencing a bride. Mr. anderson Soon undeceived me by saying, well, Lady Madelina, you see we can do honour to your nuptials, though not of consequence enough
3
to
  253
to be allowed to be prescnt at the celebration. Here they all burst into a prodigious horse langh, Such as might be expected from one of my postilions.
They really grow every day more and more ridiculous, and I believe I Shall give up their acquaintance: they disgust Mr. lascelles as much as they do mysels: my Mother too, is heartily tired of them.
What 'a pity it is that people cannot be content to move in the Sphere
which it is evident Nature designed for them, and where they would be respedtable, instead of mixing in Societies where they are considered as truly ridiculous.
Since writing the above, I am informed by Mr. lascelles that my Mother
2^4
there is ill of a Severe cold; therefore you will excuse my abrupt conclusion, as I must instantly wait on her.
Yours,
MADELINA LASCELLES

  25.5
LADY
W
T O
LADY MADELINA LASCELLES.
cufford Place
O I find that you are already dwindled into a mere wise, and cannot receive a letter without carrying it to your Husband. Tell him that he needs not be So impertinent, now he has no longer occasion for my good offices, and that he must not So Soon forget Thornley Abbey, where he used to creep after me like my spaniel, to say a word or two in his favour, when he was jealous of that booby anderson.
I will
256
I will be revenged of him for that
/
pretty piece of Satire that he was pleased to level at our Sex. I believe the male creatures as often follow their own opinions as ours. ]
I had half a mind to quarrel with Charles Vernon because he was recommended to my good graces by lascelles, If it had not been for
t
Theodore and Lady de Grey, I be
\\
I Should have done So. And it is purely to oblige them, and to make up a party, that I have consented to resign up my liberty on Wednesday next, the day fixed on for the union of everybody that I know who are unmarried, except the elder Vernon and Beaumont.
I am requested, in the name of brides, bridegrooms, cc. to Say
promised
of
i *
  257
of Mortimer and yourself, remember I don’t include lascelles, is the only thing wanting towards the felicity of all.
You must excuse me, the thought of matrimony had like to have made
me forget to tell you, that Emilia
«■
the two
and her Daughter,
Beaumonts, and Mr. and Mrs. Raymond arrived at Raby Castle yesterday morning: to which place we went immediately, and I was extremely happy to See Emilia look So well. She ran and embraced me, on my entrance, while she stied tears of joy, I congratulated her most sincerely on being restored to her family, and also on her approaching union, at which she Seems truly happy. May
that wretch R -- -- -, whom I never
shall
2c8

shall forgive, be deserving of So much goodness.
I sincerely hope that the Duchess is recovered from the indispofition you mentioned in your last; in which cafe, nothing will prevent us from meeting Sometime in the course of the week, which will be the last that
I shall Subscribe myself
WESTBURY
  g
A
LADY MADELINA LASCELLES
TO THE
DUCHESS OF MORTIMER.
DEAR MADAM,
Raby Castle
Q
HOPE before this letter reaches your hand, that you will be so much recovered as to be able to quit your room, and fix a day when you will join our happy party at Raby Castle.
As you could not be present, I will endeavour to give you an account of what pastes here.
It was late on Monday evening before we arrived, but as we were expected, the family waited Supper for us. Lady de Grey, Lady Anne Westbury, and Lady jersey, and Sir
William
26o
William were there, to whom I was introduced by Mr. Beaumont. I never Saw a more interesting or a more beautisul woman than Lady jersey. Lady de Grey is also very lovely, but I think Something inferior, as to beauty, to Jemima, though quite her equal in personal accomplishments. Soon after Supper, these visitors took their leave, and we retired to rest; for I affure you that
I
I found myself much fatigued by the journey. The next morning, directly after breakfast, we went to Hare wood Grove, the seat of Mr. Vernon, to which. place we were attended by a number of Lawyers, c. and we were met there by Lady de Grey, Lady Wentworth and family, and a Mr. Davenport, who was to be united, on the next day, to Miss
Emma
•(
It
I
4
  • 261
Emma Vernon, who received us with a truly elegant and marked attention. My Father was in high Spirits and greatly pleased with his visit, which, he Said, only wanted your presence to make it most agreeable. This pleasure we hope, in a very few days, to experience. My Brother,, on our arrival Said, that he was ex
9
tremely Sorry that there was no female disengaged, or that he certainly could not withstand joining the present matrimonial party. This difficulty was removed next day, when he became prodigiously enamoured of Miss Wentworth, at which cir cumstance my Father was highly pleased, as he told me in the evening. An union between Arrandale and Miss Wentworth woiild, he
Said, be mostpleafipg to you as well
1^
as

262
as to himself. We do not despair
of feeing this accomplished before we quit the Castle, which is now resounding with mirth, in consequence of the happiness of its owner.
But I had forgot that you was to have a detail of what happened. Before dinner, at the Grove, all bu finess was fettled to the mutual sa tisfadlion of all parties, Mr. Vernon gives up the Grove to his Son, and two thousand per annum, in consequence of his union with Lady Anne; though this is by no means an equivalent to her five thousand
a year
Yet I do not doubt but she
will experience more real felicity than if she had made an interested
union.
Theodore Beaumont gets Raby Castle, and the estate belonging to it, which is computed to be
now.
style of magnificence.
O
  263
now, with the money due since the absence of the elder Beaumont,
worth about four thousand pounds yearly. In addition to this, Mr. Beaumont gives them more than one hundred thousand pounds which he brought with him from Africa. So that they may live in an Eastern
miss Emma Vernon, whose fortune is three thousand 'ipounds, had received an addition of five thousand, as a present, on the day of her marriage, from Theodore as a Small token, he Said, of respeist and gratitude for many acts of kindness that he had formerly received from her. Mr. Da
V
venport is a gentleman of an independent fortune, amounting to about twelve hundred a year. He is a very sensible man, and, I dare say, will
make

264
make Emma a most excellent husband. Now that I have Settled the revenues of the parties, I will proceed in my story.
We Spent a very happy though, upon the whole, rather a Serious afternoon, at Mr. vernon’s, and took our leave at an early hour, to prepare
for the next day: which was ap
¥
pointed, you know, for the celebration of the nuptials. Emilia and Mr.
R -- -- -- j who arrived the day before,
were not of the party to the Grove,
but remained at Raby Castle, as it
#
would not have been proper for them to appear on So public occasion, on account of thp recent death of his former lady. We found them, on our return, engaged in discourse with little Harriet, who came up to me and Said, ** indeed Lady Madelina
I never

  265
I never Saw my Mother in Such good Spirits as She has been since my Fa
4
there returned from abroad. This caused a Smile from Emilia, to whom Mr. Beaumont has given a fortune
that more than equals Mr. R -- -- -- *s
expectations, and which, indeed, he does not want. It is to be fettled on the lovely Harriet.
This morning, about nine, arrived Lady Wentworth and Lady Jersey, Sir William, and miss Wentworth. In a few moments after the Vernon family. Charles and Theodore were gone to Clifford Place, in order to conduct their lovely brides to this scene of general joy. Soon after, they came attended by Mr. Arnold the clergyman, who was to perform the ceremony. His Daughter accompanied them as bride’s maid.
\
VOL. IV
N
We
266  .
We all met in the Saloon, which hac been fitted up in a temporary man
ner for the ocxafion. The
re
the
ceremony was performed, which united four of the happiest couple now in existence, and who bid very fair towards that felicity at which every one aims, but very few attain. We then sat down to a most elegant breakfast, after which, we again repaired to the saloon, where we had a little concert; and an ode written on the occasion, by a friend of Theo
Ihe
re
store’s, was performed, mainder of the daytime, until dinner, was Spent in a most agreeable
manner.
The fihcere delight of Mr. and Mrs, Raymoned beamed forth in their benignant countenances; who,
P
I really believe, feel all the affection
for
  ' z6j
for Theodore that his real parent does. He treats them with a truly tender and elegant attention. Such as desert like theirs merits from a heart replete
The
with unbounded gratitude., flder Mr. Vernon and Beaumont were as happy as possible for men to be, who Saw their utmost wishes that day gratified. Sir William and Lady jersey enjoyed the Scene with marks of satisfaction and content, that greatly pleased me,
And now, my dear Mother, after having given you an account of all these weddings, you must give me leave to observe, that through all the various  , a steady constancy in the paths of virtue and honour, leaving no duty undischarged,. has brought this happy
%
N z
>
268
i
party to the highest Summit of earthly bliss. '
There is no addition wanting to your madelina’s happiness, but the presence of her Mother. In the hope that a few days will restore youf health,
I remain,
mcrst affectionately your’s.
MADELINA LASCELLES.
FINIS.
\
4 ■
BOOKS lately published by G. G. J. and J. R O BIN S O N,, pater noster Row
Excessive Sensibility;, or, the hlf tory of Lady St. Laurence. In Two Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 5s. Sewed.
Fatal Follies; or, the History of the countess of Stanmore. Four Volumes, Duodecimo. Price IS. Sewed.
The Life of Baron Frederick
T RENCK. Containing his Adventures, his cruel and excessive Sufferings during ten Years Imprisonment at the Fortress of Magdebourg, by Command of the late King of Prussia; allb Anecdotes, historical, political and personal; • and an elegant Engraving of Baron Trenck loaded with stxty eight Pounds of Iron. Transsated from the German, by Thomas Holcroft. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo.. Price IS. Sewed.
Memoirs of Maria,
In Two Volumes, Duodecimo. Sewed.
a Perssan Slave.
Price 6s.
The Inquisitor; or, invissble Rambler., By Mrs. Rowfon. In Three Volumes, duoi" decimo. Price, 7s, 6d. Sewed.
TIIE.
The Negro equalled by few euro' peaks. Transsated from the French. Iiii Three Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 9s. Sewed.
Letters on the Manners of the French, and on the Follies and Extravagancies of the Times. Written by an Indian, at Paris. In Two Volumes,. Duodecimo. Price 6s. Sewdd.
Eliza Beamont and Harriet Osborne; or, the Child of Doubt. Writteiii by Indiana Brooks. Two Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 6s. Sewed.
The Curse of Sentiment. In Two Volumes, Duodecimo. Sewed.
A Novel Price 6s,
Ela A Tal
^9
or, the Delusions of the Hearti founded on Fasts., Duodecimo Price 3s. Sewed.
The School FOR Fathers; or, thevic -- tira of a curse. A Novel. Containing authentic Memoirs and Anecdotes, with histo -- rical Fails. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 9s. Sewed.
The Confessions of J, J. Rousseau;, Citizen of Geneva. o which are added, the; Reveries of a Solitary Walker. A new tran ssation. In Two Volumes,, Duodecimo., Price 6s. Sewed,
The Confessions of J. J. Rousseau, Citizen of Geneva,. Part Second, To which'.
i&;
is added, a new Collection of Letters Sfbili
the Author Transtated from the French. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo. Price ios.6d. Sewed.
The Son of Ethelwolf. An historic osale. By the Author of Alan Fitz oiborne c. In Two Volumes, Duodecimo,
s)s. Sewed.
Price
The Adventures of John ofgaunt, Duke of Lancaster. By James White, Esq. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo., Price 9s1. Sewed.
The fair Hibernian.. A Novel. In
Two Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 6s. Sewed'.
'»
Confidential Letters of Albert,
from his first Attachment to Charlotte to her
\
Death. From the Sorrows of Werter. Duodecimo. Price 3s Sewed.
Caroline of Litchfield. A Novel. Transtated from the French, by Thomas Holcroft. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo. Price of. Sewed.
Eleanora. A Tale.
ter.
cimo
From the Sorrows of Wer In Two Volumes, Duode Price 5s. Sewed.
Heerfort and From the German. Duodecimo.
Clara. A Novel. In Three Volumes, Price 9s. Sewed.
Rs

r etribution. A Novel. By the Author of the Gamesters, c. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 9s. Sewed.
The Half-pay Officer; or, History of Charles Chanceley. A Novel. In Three Volumes, Duodecimo. Price ys.hd. Sewed.
T ALES OF THE Castle; or, Stories of Instruction and Delight: being Les Veillees du Chateau. Written in French, by Madame la Comteffe de Genlis, Author of the Theatre of Education, Adela and Theodore, Ac. Transsated into English, by Thomas Holcroft. The Second Edition. Five Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 15s. Sewed.
Honeria, Somerville. A Novel. In Four Volumes, Duodecimo. Price 12s. ^ewed.
(
\
