LAURA AND AUGUSTUS, 
AN
AUTHENTIC STORY; ^
I N ^ V
A SERIES or LETTERS,
\
]
By A YOUNG LADY.
/
/,
IN THREE VOLUME S.'
t
V O L I.
A whole host, a war of foes,
May Sooner be subdued, than love,
y' Phillips.
> *
* A
'r
DUBLIN;
PRINTED FOR R MONCRIEFFE, G. BURNET,
T. WALKER, R. MARCHBANK, R. BURTON, r, BYRNE, S. COLBERT, B SMITH,
N. CROSS, & J. CASH,
ill ^ i — i — — — C — *
M, DC C L jtxxpvv
V ‘
s' NO.
V
» " ^ •
-- : • ... ^
■ - '. * > i ^
*• • - -. ' • 1
.: ' v \
#

i"'. fc V ‘.; ‘
'.if. ' N..
V V
V » • ■
■ V V. • ■'
•- - 4., '
'. r • * '
A
■. ■ ■
'‘
.'tri .•
^ri
w
•*'. *' ' •
1
‘,
* •. J.
.' i,
V.,., .- .: '.. ‘ • I,
y»k
OD.J
T O T « E
RIGHT HONOURABLE
^ S'
T HE
DOW A G E it
V
COUNTESS S P E N S E R
P
XHE author of the following Sheets, unhackneyed in the arts of dedication,
V .feels herself at a loss, to express her
FC
sentiments with all that energy, and " delicacy, so requisite to one of your h ladyship’s exalted understanding. She, 4 flatters herself, however, that, notwithstanding her pen is incapable of delis,

^ neating, with that elegance she could T wish, the perfetfl esteem and veneration ' her heart warmly acknowledges for the "' virtues and accomplishments Lady spen i vol, 1. A fer
IV DEDICATION.
fer is so highly dislingiiished for, that her Ladyship will have the humanity to receive under her patronage the following piece.
Though the author has not the pre
A i
fumption to suppose its merits sufficient to claim so illustrious a patron; yet she ^ imagines, that when the produce of her virgin pen shall be graced with the name of a Spenser, it will procure it ' that constderation and indulgence which its want of merit render so necesfary, In which hope, she does herself she honour of fnbfcribing herself' ' '
spenser’s.
Most ejevoted,
_y
Grateful, humble servant.
The A U T H O R.
'm
LAURA
'V
• .if
r
mmmmmmmmmmmammmbmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmrnmmtmi ^
t ^ .'., ^ * » ^
* • t
 .
I
/
LETTER L
Grenada.
MISS LEVISON TO atlss BYNG.
TT E A V E N be praised! your friend, my dear ■ ^ Cecilia, has it once more in' her power to add refs you from Terra firma. Words Seem not Sufficiently expressive to describe her joy on having escaped the perils of that boisterous element, to whose mercy she was So lately consigned. You, my dear, having never quitted the joyous Scenes of England, can form but a very iinperfed: idea of the Sufferings of inexperienced voyagers.
, For the first eight days, I was incapable of quitting my cabin. Nourishment, that is. Solids of every kind, my stomach relisted j and as for Ii quids, porter was the only one it would bear; and though a liquor I never touched when on
4 shores

6  .
shore, yet found it palatable even in the night. Kfy father at length hit upon an expedient to procure fresh air, by having a mattress laid upon the deck for me to repose on, which soon enab!ed me to walk thereon, and join in the amufemeuts that our imaginationssuggested^
Among our companions was a captadin upon half-pay, and his wife’s stster j a !ive!y good na (tured, uneducated gir!. Her story appeared to me rather mysterious. Her brother-in-law, captain waker, introduced her to us at Portsmouth, .under the name of Miss Westley. But about a a month after we had been on board, broad hints were given both by the captain and !ady, that were Miss reversed into Mrs. it would not be misapplied. This, you must natura!!y imagine, raised our curiosity; and at !ength, after much entreaty, she was prevailed on to declare her real Situation j a narrative of which follows: In the village where she resided !ived a Mr. ander fon, ah apothecary. This gendeman had an only fqn, who, it Seems, had !ong feta strung prepossesiion in miss nancy’s favour : it was mutual. Hitherto the youth fupprested his desire to announce his .passion,, stis father j however, youn i®fcukpius, unable any longer to retain the weighty Secret, !ike a dutifu! Son, refo!yed to make Wm hi confidant. But, cruel to telli their hearts by ho means fympathised; for though the !ady possested youth and good nature, and was in every resjpe£i what her ioyer Old wish, yet these were no recommendations to the more provident father; with whom, Jiad she been endowed with a!! the virtues and graces, a want of fortune made it his duty (in his opinion) to op pose .the measure"
"
Laura and atrcustus; 7
J
Re peremptorily refused his concurrence; and at the same time informed his Son ot his havingi received overtures from farmer Ploughshare, who, would give his daughter Jenny two hundred pounds on her marriage, and a reversion of three hundred more at his death. He therefore ex^’ pe6l: ed, that if he wished to b.c.' called his fon, he would, without further delay, withdraw his" addrestes from Miss Westley, and transfer them to Miss Ploughshare. In vain did the lover plead' • his passion to an inexorable father. The poor youth flew to his mistress for confolatiori*, instead of which he experienced what' thousands have, an additional shock. Finding the house in the utmost confusion, and inquiring the cause, his beloved Nancy informed him; that her brother found it necestary to return to the West Indies, where his wife then was j and that' they were to sail next week for the istand of Grenada in the Collier, captain Marsh. Poor Joe, who had often heard how scarce lily coloured females were iti that part of the globe; - fennble of the influ ence nancy’s' charms had over him, much feared they mighr operate as powerfully oh Some wealthy planter; therefore thought it most adyiseable to Secure the fair one’s hand, before she bid adieu to the chalky cliffs of Albion. In consequence whereof they were privately married on the very morning of her joining our party. The parting on the hushand’s fide, we may suppose to have been very tender and affecting: but, if one may be allowed to judge from the Srria!! traces of Sorrow which appeared in the countenance of the bride upon our meeting, her heart had not fe!t the Separation with much Severity. After this history, what think you, my dear geciiia, of our
a3 laughs
Laura at Augustus.
laughing companion? Is it not rather whimsical to marry a man in the morning, and fet fail in the evening for a distant clime; to leave him with a prospect of never more beholding him; and yet not drop even a tear to the parting? does it not argue an infenstbility one would conceive impossible? How difserent were our feelings, my amiable friend, at our separation!! neither the novelty of surrounding Scenes, nor the tenderness of my parents, could for one moment banish you from my thoughts. But, alas, Cecilia, what am I about I The retracing the last hours we spent together at Byngham Grove, bedew my cheeks and blot my paper. Shall therefore quit my pen for the present, in order to re compose my mind: and, in obedience to your commands, will, at some future opportunity, attempt a description of this country and its inhabitants, as well as that of Madeira j which place we touched at on our passage hither.
This letter I shall give in charge to captain Mann, who leaves this port tomorrow. He will a!so present you with a few trifles, the produce of this country. He has likewise promised to get the pine app!c rum on shore, which I have Sent to your good father j well! knowing it is not to be purchased in eng!and, and not doubting but it wi!i be very acceptable.
Neither my time nor spirits admits me to Say more at present, than that I remain with unfeigned affection yours,
Laura Levison.
i
L E T
 . 9
L E T T E R II
.1 • • • - ■ X
’ ■ Byngham Grove.
< •
MISS BYNG TO MISS LEVISON.
• • • ^.
T AURA, my father enters my apartment, ^ and informs me a packet sails on Wednesday for the West Indies. I gladly received the information, and am Set down to Scribble to ray Sweet friend. Here then is my ladyship, with all her apparatus, ready to thank my dear Laura for her kind remembrance. Captain Mann was himself the bearer of your asfe6lionate letter, and delivered all the rarities you Sent with the greatest pun6luality. The pineapple rum, my father declares, is the best he ever tasted j and, be assured, repeatedly drinks my dear girl’s health. Soon after the honest shipper had left me (who, by the by, is a Smart agreeable little fellow) our giddy friend. Lady Charlotte Bruce, was announced. In she came, half out of breath. — Cecilia, I have got the vapours, and am come to Spend the day with you. But, bless me, what have we here j jars, bottles, flowers, and the Lord knows what. Let me See, I will take a peep into this great jar. — Stop, Lady Charlotte, when you have recovered breath, I will inform you, without your running the rish of d’rting those delicate taper Singers. — bless me, Cecilia, how teastng you grovv j Surely your fate will be to lead apes. I suppose it is Some mighty Secret not worth keep, ng. But, however, if you are not the hardest hearted creature in the word, you will not torment me, for I am rea!iy very low
A 4 Spirited
lo  .
Spirited today— — chahotte, out of compassion, I wi!! tell you. But first inform me what shocking affair has happened today: : your spirits are So depressed.
You may !augh if you peas, ceciha j but I will be hanged if you would not have been vexed;, too, had you been in my place. That teasing litt!e urchin of Lady wynn’s, by some accident, got hold of a beautifu! fan which Harry Seymour had just brought from Paris, and Snapped the sticks right in two. — — For my part, I wonder how people can pester strangers in Such a manner with their brats. — Why real!y, Lady Charlotte, the misfortune you comp!ain of was very mortifying. You had never yet stirted with the pretty bauble,. I suppose? — No, never; it was that which mortified me. — We!! then. Since your Ladyship has received So great a mortification this morning, I wist not keep you longer in suspenfe; read this letter from our friend Laura. — She is still the same good-natured giddy creature, as when at School. — There is a talk of her being married to the Honourable Mr. Seymour: he is an amiable man, and just returned from his travels. Should the match take placey they will! stand, I think, as fair a chance of happiness, as any of our modern couples. She was much diverted with the account you give of Miss w.estley, alias Mrsi. Anderfonj and declared she would freely have given up the happiness of the last masquerade, to have had the pleasure of a few jests with the maiden avise as she humourousty styled her. But away with Such trifling, or my friend will! imagine that her Cecilia has acquired some of Lady charlotte’s levity.
Need
  n
Need I tel! vou, my dear Laura, how much we !ament the want of your sweet society. For a month after the departure of my be!oved cotnpa nion, 1 wandered like a dove who had !ost its mate. The fields, the groves,. lost all their charms, and alike Served but to nourish melancholy. My father, ever anxiousty Solicitous for the peace of his poor girl, insisted on my going for a fortnight to my uncle Lord T — — — —, in Albermarle Street. You are acquainted with their mode of !iving, therefore will! not require a Sketch. I sha!! only Say, that during my stay, I was hurried off my legs; the dishpation of a town, life, ill suited with one accustomed to the calm delights of the country. How much preferable is' the life of a country milk maid, to that of a modern Sine lady! The former feeds not a wish to rile higher j ambition is a stranger to a rustic bosom j she has not a dread that her sttuation may be humbled j she rises with chearfulness to perform the duties of her station j and, while she sits innocently milking her cow, sweetly Warbles forth Some Simple d'tty. Perhaps too, the blooming, Collin; the objes of her tenderest asfefuon, beguiles the toils and fatigues’of the day, by kindly partaking in them; Compare this !'fe with that ofa bee. Ambition; envy, jealousy, and pride, alternate!y'take pestcffion'of the fair one’s breast.
If she lives beyond the limits of her income, * oeco nomy is'expelled by pride, and her happiness is Sacrificed to it. If she imagines her beauty will attach a ducarcoroneti and that she may one day eclipse the lovely d utche of Devonshire j if her assefilions are fixed pn an objc(5s: whose heart is already engaged. — She flies from one public place to another,, in hopes of finding that happiness she
A 5:, iss
12  .
is in Search of; feels herself disappointed j — returns home fatigued and jaded j and reverses the order of Nature, by turning night into day. The head ach torments herj and if left a moment to herfdf, is rrioped to d^ath. Before the age of th ipty her constitution is broken; she grows peevish, and out of humour with herself and all the world; envies everyobjefil: she beholds, thinking they are possessed of that jewe!, she has so long and painfuhy been in Search of
O happiness! our being’s end and aim f Good, pleasure, ease, content! whatever thy name,
That Something ftii! which prompts th eternal sigh
For which we dare to live, or dare to die;
Which still so near us, yet beyond us lies,
o’eriook’d, seen double, by the fool and wife
Plant of celestial seed \ if dropped below.
Say in what mortal soil thou deign’st to grow)
VOTZ0
\
I am ca!lcd away, but will resume my pen on my return.
I was interrupted by a vish from Miss Sidney. You have heard, I suppose, of the death of her two ststers The Sweet girl Seems much affli6l: ed on the occaston. How stncerely are Sir Charles and Lady Sidney, to be pitied! Though, indeed, if we may jshdge from Lady sidney’s con dusi, she must have postessed a very Small degree of maternal feelings, or could never have consigned Such delicate blostoms to the nourishing hands of strangers, to embrace infamy and shame! Gracious heaven I what must be the reflections of that woman who breaks through every law, human and divine, to gratify an adulterous love! But as this fubj’efil, my dear Laura t requires a more able pen than mine, to treat it with the Severity k So justly merits, I shall bid it
adieu
 . 13
adieu.; and content myshlf with wishing, that all happiness may attend the stster of my heart; "and that she may ever entertain the Same lively friendship for me in her breast, which is implanted for her in that of
Cecilia Byng
«
III
\
* I
Grenada.
MISS LEVISON TO MISS BYNG.
ACCORDING to promise my dear friend, I resume my pen, to attempt a description of where I have been, and what I have seen, stnee my departure from your peaceful abode.
But I fear, Cecilia, however good my inclination mav b.c.. In endeavouring to amuse the ei fure hour of a beloved friend, I shall fall far short of my wishes. For thy Laura feels herself so mere a novice in the descriptive art, that she fears her pen may excite disgust. Instead of giving that pleasure she would wish to impart. However, instead of offering any further apology, I will proceed' '
about a month after we Sailed from the AU Han coajiy we came within sight of the istand of Maderia. To express my j‘oy upon once more viewing land, after being So long at the mercy of the waves, is almost impossible: my heart dilated with pleasure, when a Sailor from the topmast announced the Sight of land. So extravagant mas my joy, I could have hugged the honest tar for his intelligence j and gave him a dollar to drink my health on landing. Quite elated, I
descended
\
14  .
descended to my cabin to adjust my attire; which important point was Scarcely finished, when the gentlemen came down to inform us, that a boat was arrived alongside the Ship to convey us on shore. Quickly was I on deck j but, gracious heaven, what were my Sensations, when, on looking into the boat that was to convey us, I beheld three or four Portuguese felfows more than half naked! In an instant my neck and face were sufltufed with bushes; trembling, I Scarce knew which way to turn my eyes; fearful of venturing myse!f near such monsters in appearance. Figure to yourself, my friend, my perp!exity at that moment. But here my terror was not to cease; for, to my great amazement and dread, we had Scarce proceeded ten yards before two or three huge oxen were brought, and fastened to the boat with chains to drag us out of the Sea upon the bay; the stirs in that istand running So exceeding high, that without the friendly assistance of these cattle, you would be continually driven back.
The agitation my Spirits had experienced rrearly exhausted my strength; So that, on landing, my feet almost refused their accustomed aid j and I should douhtless have made but a stumbling piece of work of it had 1 not accepted, the proffered arm of Mr. Fanburg.
This gent!eman, who Seemed postested of the greatest humanity, kindly endeavoured to Support my drooping Spirits, by offering me every consolation in his power. Thus Situated, I could not help: regretting my departure Snoni good Old England; wishing myself once more in the peaceful regions of Queen Square, Safely !odged under the protc6sing care of my indulgent friends, the
Mrs., s......"■'"■ns’. But my desire being vain,
recoi
Laura and Auoustus. 15
rccohe<£tion told me it was prudent to Submit with patience.
We were conduqied to the house of Mr. man fel, merchant, whose politeness and hospitality were eminently conspicuous. His mansion is Spacious and handsome j and his manner of !iving corresponds with his fortune, which is immense. During our stay at this house, there was a constant Succeshon of company. Our parties consisted entirely of gentlemen j for there are very few European ladies residents upon this istand,. which is a circumstance that astonishes me much y. as not only the climate is delightful, but their mode of living very Sumptuous.
The trade of this place, you know, consists. mostly in wines, it abounding in vintages. But the foil'is So excessive luxuriant that it yields not only the produce of the western clime, but alfo’ those of Europe; The only inconvenience, in my opinion, attending the ladies of this town,, is the badness of the streets; which, being paved! with Small rough pebbles, renders walking,, though notimpra6ticable, very unpleasant. Bat the country, which is a paradise of Sweets amply compensates the above disadvantage. The hedges are formed' of roses, mirtlej and citton, whioh here grow wild, planted by the hand of Nature. Fruits of all kind are in the greatest profusion,, especially peaches' and 'strawberries; grapes, I' need not name.. The onions of this istand' are remarkably fine, and. grow to a prodigious Size';,, they are, I believe, frequently imported to England for sale - well as presents.
The natives of this sweet Spot are pbrtuguese;; a set of people; to me, the most disgusting; they are the filthiest looking beings eyes ever beheld;;
. theirr
i6  .
their mode of dress the most uncouth. The men never walk out without great coats, though the weather is Suffocating; and Swords, though they apprehend no danger. And custom has So ordered it, that an Englishman cannot l^ir without taking his Sword as his companion.
The women of this country are in general very plain, their complexions remarkably Sallow, and their dress very Angular, not at all calculated to prejudice one in their favour. I do not remember ever to'have Seen one portuguese female out of mourning Since my arrival in this part of the world. A black crape gown and petticoat, with the Skirt of the former drawn over the head, so that no part of the face is to be Seen excepting the tip ol the nose, is their usual habiliment; in which attire they parade the streets, and sit in their churches. How they decorate thenaselvcs when at home, I cannot Say j but this is certain,, their appearance abroad is truly forbidding.
Their cathedrals may b.c. justly styled magnificent. One morning as Mr. mansel, Mr. Fanburg, and myself, were amusing ourselves with viewing the disferent buildings in the town, observing one of the churches open, we instantly shade up to it, and on entering, found it was their hour of worship. The women, who were all Seated on the ground, on our entering Set up a tittering, which Surprised me not a little, as it expressed an indecent levity, which I shmld have thought the place they were then in, and the stri st less of their religious duties forbade We had scarce entered the ayle of this beautiful edifice, before a man came up and addreited us in the Portuguese language j when imagining 1 had committed Some error, I immediately quitted the
places
t
 . 17
place. But upon inquiring of the gentlemen what the man Said, was toid they never remembered the governor to have behaved with So much politeness to any Stranger before j for that Monsieur le Gouverneur had Sent his compliments to la dame anglaise, and that as no person was admitted to approach with their heads covered, if ' she would do them the honour to take oflf her hat and bow her knee to the blested Virgin as she ascended up the ayle, her company would be es teemed a favour. Upon this polite invitation,
I resolved not to be out done in the etiquette of good breeding, and indeed looked upon it as a compliment due to the governour’s civility.: though my hair was not a little derange, 1 puhed ofs my hat, and reentered, bowing my knee al! the way, till I arrived at the altar, to the no Small diversion of the female Spefilators. After kneeling to the Virgin Mary and bowing, 1 rose up, courtesied to the governor, and withdrew much pleastd at having got rid of fijch an auk ward pi ce of businefs.
Their funeral rites are Singular and solemn;; having Seen an infant’s, will give you a description of the ceremony. The child was laid in a coffin made of paste board covered with crimson velvet, bound with gold lace. The lid of the coffin was thrown open, and discovered the babe strewed with the choicest flowers. Six priests attended, with about fifty little boys dref p ' fed in white Surplices, bearing in their hands wax tapers, and chanting in the most heavenly mea Surej the mourners followed. By this procession' was the little innocent condu6ied to the ground where, when it arrived, it was taken out of the coffin and laid in th; earth j which last ceremony
shocked!
i8  .
shocked me greatly (as it would any other European) whose mind was not familiarised to this mode of interment.
A few days after the above Scene, I was witness to one which far furpasted anything your imagination can form, or S indifferent a pen as mine paint. It was one of their grand festivals, called Saint clara’s day j we were told that every convent would be thrown open,, as well as their cathedrals, our party therefore determined to Sally forth,, and Satisfy their curiosity j we visited their different churches, as on that day grand mafs’is held j from mass the priests, and two or three hundred little boys, marched two and two, as in the lolemnization of the before mentioned' burial, accompanied by al! ranks in the Sfme order, chanting, and kneeing every ten yards as they proceeded The nuns at the disterenf convents stood ranged with final bashets of flowers in their hands, consisting of roses, j’afmine, and full blown myrtle,, with which they strewed the priests as they entered j none but them being permitted to go within the gates. However having followed the pmceshon pretty closely, we did not escape their odoriferous favours. 'She streets aiso were Scattered with, the Sweetest blostoms. In short your ideas, ray dear Cecilia, must form but an imperfefib pi<£ture of the magnificence and beauty of this ceremony. My p n is inadequate to the task 1 have unde; taken. And my fingers are So crampt, as to oblige me to lay it down.
Having contra<stcd an acquaintance with one f the nuns the day preceding my quitting Madeira, I received from her. as a p«efent, a box ®£ candied citron,, a work bashet, and flowers of
her
4
 ;
her own workmanship, with a letter containing the history of her life. The symmetry of her figure, and the melancholy imprinted on her languid countenance, c!aimed my attention: when 1 first belied her, she was among the number of those poor deluded wretches whom 1 mentioned as being ranged at the gates of their different convents to strew the priests with flowers prepofsested in her favour from her amiable appearance, I resolved to take'an early opportunity of re visiting the monastery in which she was a captive. Accordingly, in a few days, I appeared at the grate, anci desiring to See Some of the gcw gaws they usually make for sale; one of the nuns retired, and in a few moments returned,, accompanied by the identical' person I wished So much to See. Having finished my purchases, we entered into a convefsation in the French i'an guage, which she Spoke with great elegance and propriety. I could not avoid expressing my Surprise, that one who Seemed So well qualified to shine in the politest circles, should preser a cloister, at So early an age, thereby Secluding herself Irom the world, and all the joys of society j looking at me, she Sighed; then turned her head aside to wipe the falling tear. My heart was melted! it felt the Solicitude of a friend. At length, with eyes overcharged, she articulated these words: Alas! Madam, you See before you one, whose Sorrows admit of no palliative, - — — the greatest bleshng I can hope for is death. To that happy period 1 look with anxious impatience, ’tis the only friend that can restore my lost peace! Here my eyes could not withhold testiying how much my heart commiserated her misfortunes. We
were
(
20  .
were interrupted by the prayer bell summoning her j but I have frequently visited her stnee. My feelings would not suffer me to take a personal farewell of her; therefore wrote a few lines bidding her adieu, and requesting her friendly remembrance of me in her prayers.
How stncerely, my Cecilia, do I pity those wretched females, whose lot it is to Spend their bloom within the Solitary walls shf a monastery; basely Secluded from all the joys of friendship and a virtuous love! And should fate eyer throw an object in her way worthy of her attention, after the irrecoverable vow had passed her lips, what must be her misery!! and sharp repentance, must be her fate— — " — superstitious fair, could you but view the misery which reigns within the dreary walls of a cloister, so many of you would not So eagerly embrace the veil.
Gracious Heaven! defend me, and the friend of my heart, from so cruel a state I Merciful Father! look with an eye of pity on the fufser ings of the fair Eliza.
Alas! my love, I cannot proceed. The af fli6lions of Eliza demand the Sacrifice of a few tears. The dear girl’s story accompanies this, which, if I do not strangely deceive myself, will draw a tear of sympathy from your dove hke eyes. With tenderest wishes for your happiness, I Subscribe myself yours stncerely,
Laura Levison.
LED
 . 2i
LETTER IV
Madeira Convent of -- -*
ELIZA TO MISS LEVISON.
‘C'NCOURAGED by your kind and Mattering friendship, and impelled by motives of the Sincerest esteem and asse; ion for one so truly amiable, I take up my pen to assure you, my sweet Sympathetic friend, how Severely I shall feel the loss of your condoling conversation. Your company has been the only Solace my affiifihons have received. Since my residence in these gloomy cells. Your humanity in devoting So much of your time to So melancholy an objefit deserves a no less grateful return.
Often has Miss Levifon hinted her wish to know what had plunged me into my present melancholy, and driven me from the commerce of mankind. She shall be gratified j and what my tongue refused to utter, my pen shall truly delineate. This paper shall transmit a faithful account of the Source of all my griefs. „ 1 already * feel the pangs I shall endure, in reciting my mis,, But ’tis a Sacrifice due to your generous friendship. Perhaps too my Sins are such that require many tears as an atonement.
/
’tis grief, pure grief, that does my tears excite,
And real Sorrow does each line indite
Forgive me, my sweet friend, my tardiness; thought wanders up and down. Indeed a re trospe^ion so agitates me, that I must lay down
niy
22  .
my pen, but will! resume it when more cum' pofed.
Tears have relieved me j therefore I will without further digression proceed.
Fontainbleau was the place of my birth, and in giving me life my unfortunate mother expired. She was a native of Italy. I was educated at the ^nvent of the noble’ste' in Paris, and' received every advantage which the attendance of the most renowned masters could give. At the age of Sixteen I quirted my retirement, and resided with Madame la comtesse de Davenport j a lady pof fessed of all those amiable accomplishments which add dignity to Tank, and heightemthe lustre of the most exalted station. To her care was I con -- signed by my dying parent. This lady had been the friend and companion of my mother’s childhood. But oh marrying Monsieur le Comte de Davenport she quitted Italy, and resided at fon tainbleau; The friend's for Some time kept up a regular correspondence, till my mother, for what reason was then unknown, dropped ail intercourse with the amiable comtesfe. Chance, however, brought about a meeting (though a shocks ing one) between the friend’s.
As Madame de Davenport was one day walking by a Small retired wood, near Fontainbleau, she espyed a pretty cottage at a little distance. The neatness of the building tempted her to enter, the internal elegance and Simplicity of which. amazed herj for a few moments, she was lost in wonder and astonishment. But the piercing cry of anguish moving her attention, she followed the impulse of humanity, and entering the chamber from whence the voice proceeded, beheld a lady. in the pangs of childbirth, she approached to
tender
 . ' 23
tender her services.' But, good heavens I what words can express her amazement and horror, at beholding in the diftressed female her lost friend. ade!aide. She streamed, and fainted j her Scream attraqed the attention of my mother, who, on recognising her, was no !ess agitated than p!eased. The sudden surprise, however hastened her pains, and before the comtesse was we!! recovered of her sit, I wai presented to the world j my unhappy parent had but Just power to recommend me to the proteflion of her friend, before death closed her eyes. My be!oved guardian, who had ever felt the tenderest affefition for my fl! fated mother, stncerely lamented her untimely death j and, by her outward garb, paid that compliment to her memory which she judged their former friendship demanded.
From that memorable day, until I had reached my eleventh year, I constant!y restded under the same roos with ray nob!e benefaflress : at which period, the Compte took a whim into his head of vistting Europe, which ob!iged my generous friend to place me at the before mentioned mof nastery, where I remained till 1 arrived at an age proper to be introduced into life.
Happy period! blessed moments of innocence I ah, whither are ye fled! Why did I quit the calm retirement of a cloister? the innocent conversation of Vestals, to mix in the gay and noisy world j a world made up of Sorrow, pain, and disappointment? Why did not one grave receive the wretched child with her unfortunate parent? Why was 1 left to contend with the storms of ad verse fate? Alas, I rave. — Pardon, heaven I none should prefurae to arraign thy providence a
but
'4
24  .
but with submission bow their knees to thy alh wise decrees. • ■
My highly valued friend the comtesse transferred the tenderness she bore my dear departed mother, to her helpless orphan; and made it her study to drive from my mind all thoughts concerning the mystery of my birth: young and thoughtless, and Surrounded by flatterers, she found that no difficult task. A twelvemonth was passed in uninterrupted Scenes of joy and festivity. The Comte and compteste having no chi!dren, and showing a great partia!ity for me, it was ge neraliy be!ieved I should be their heir, which drew about me many admirers j fevera! of whom made their application to the comtesse. But as my heart fe!t no preposteffion in favour of any particular obje<£l:, 1 requested her Ladyship not to press me upon so disagreeable a fubje^ j asturing her my Situation under her protection was so per fefilly agreealb!e to my wishes, that I was appre henstve, after having soong been accustomed to her tender indulgence, my difposttion might resist the tyranny of a husband.
A few days after the above discourse, the good-natured comtesse entered my dresiing room, and, laughing, said. Ah, mademoife!!e, we have an English nobleman to take soupe with us today, that will, I guess, put all your boasted indifference to the test: but however, my lovely child, do not defpairj who knows what esse your innocent Smiles and dimpled cheeks may have upon him?
I knew not how it was, my Sweet friend, but oertain!y that day I took uncommon pains in decorating the fev/ charms Nature has bestowed upon me j and if my glass deserved confidence, I
never
 .
never appeared to greater advantage, I. entered the. room in which the company were astemblea with a heart i palpitating with expefilation.' The Gomte looked at me with a Significant glance; Spread his hand upon his breast, and heaved a Sigh. I fe!t the force of his meaning, and, mortified at being discovered to possess So !arge a Share of vanity, I biulhed. At that instant a domestic announced the Marquis of C — — — — —. The Comte having introduced his Lordship to the comtesse, presented me to him as his adopted daughter. Never did I See! myse!f So embarrasted as at that moment j and it was confiderab!y augmented by the archness of monsieur’s !ooks. When dinner was Served, it was with difficu!ty I performed the trifling etiquettes of the tab!e. Indeed the amiable Englishman engrosted my who attention, whi!e the Comte increased ray awkwardness not a !itt!e, by inquiring Several times if I fe!t myself indifposed j it avai!ed nothing assuring him of my heath. At !ength, to my great fatisfafilion, the carriages arrived that were to convey us to the opera. This astorded me some relief, as it took oflf the attention of the Comte, who Seemed determined to make me Suffer for my former indifserence.
I fear I tyre you, my charming friend, in being So circumstantial, but rely on your goodness for pardon. I see! a dawn of happiness in retracing the first interviews I had with my be!oved wi!liam. From that day the Marquis became a constant visitor. He attended me to every pace of positc resortj. was my constant partner at astembsies j we Seemed to !ive but in the presence of each other. He knew my mysterious birth, and the dependant state I was in; but they made no impression on
ni; r

my generous lover: his heart was Superior to Such sordid, narrow sentiments. Our love was pure and disinterested j our sous appeared formed for, each other. On our first interview, our minds Secretly acknowiedged its counterpart.
Three months were passed in the mutual exchange of love, when the Marquis, impatient to make me his by the tenderest tie, wrote to his father, not in the !east doubting his concurrence, as no objection could be made to fortune, my kind benefactors declaring their nob!e designs in my favour.
At !ength the wished for answer arrived; but, good Heavens, what words can paint my feelings on receiving the letter from the hands of the comtesse instead of my amiable lover! My friend informed me, that the Marquis was a little .indifposed, and could not wait upon me himself, but that the Comte was gone to visit him. At that instant my heart foreboded my misfortune, and with trembling hands 1 opened the Sata! letter : on reading which I fainted.
The Duke declared his disapprobation of his son’s marrying a foreigner j and at the same time he desired his immediate return to England, informing him he had engaged his hand to an heiress of immense posteshons, and a noble birth: and as a mark of his duty, commanded him to give up all further connexions with me.
That day and night tears and lamentations were my companions. The next morning my lover appeared j but, O heavens, how changed! No longer the bloom of health sat on his countenance. Pale and deje6ted he entered my dref iing room. 1 arose, and, assuming all the forti ^ iude .1 was raistr.ess of, requested him to be Seated;
/ ^
 . 27
ed; I told him. Since we must part, I begged this might be our last interview: as my attachment to him was too Sincere, to wish him to deviate from the paths rigid duty had chalked out for him. I desired him to root me from his memory, and to obey his Grace, by giving his hand to my fortunate rival j and entreated him to destroy the litt!e portrait of me (which he constant!y wore hung next his heart) as it could but Serve to cncrcase his affli£iion, and might be a means of creating jea!ous doubts in the breast of his future lady, should she ever chance to see it. These requests, I confess, cost my heart the Severest pangs j nor were they made without many interruptions. At the last words, my tears would no !onger be restrained. The Marquis threw himself at my feet, and with every kind expression which the tenderest love could di61: ate, tried to sooth my grief, though at the same time he himfe!f stood in as great need of confo!ation.
He prested me to receive his hand before he quitted France : Swore no power on earth should force him to marry any other woman but my fe!st This request I peremptori!y refused. At last it was conc!uded, that, instead of returning to Engiand as he had purposed, he should write to the Duke, and inform him of his aversion to the match his Grace had mentioned j and his determination of never quitting France unti! holy laws had made me his. This letter was accompanied with another from the Comte de Pavenport, offering the most generous terms which his friendship and affe^iion for me could difiate. These epistles were answered by a polite refusal to the Comte, and a peremtory denial to his Son. He also informed the Marquis, that he should Set out vol. I. B iuiraedi
'as  .
immediately for Paris, and expelled to be with him pretty near as soon as his letters.
My amiable William upon this claimed my promise J and, not imagining I should aft in the least derogatory to the delicacy of my sex, as.. haying the fanftlon of my noble benefactors, I yielded him my cpnseiit. It was agreed that my lover should immediately apply to the eng!ish ambassador’s ohap!ain, with whoni he was upon intimate terms; and that, lest the Duke should arrive as Soon as he had predi6jted, the ceremony should be performed the following morning. Fatal morning! mysterious Heaven 1 I can no more, alas! nay heart is bursting.
I haveicnelt j I have prayed the blested Virgin to give .me fortitude to .proceed in my horrid tale. The .clergyman was .pronouncing his last benediction, when in rushed a man with dishevelled hair, and all the horrors of despair and anguish painted in his countenance : It was the Duke. My husband seized my hand j we knelt j he clasped the knees of his father j he beggecl his fprgivenefs j he implored Jhis blesting. But the unhappy parent was incapable pf a replyhe sat like one stupified. At length he articulated these few words;! — — r both — both my children; -? — ^ro shd r — and the name offijier died upon his tongue. Nature was exhausted he fainted. My husband ran, to Support his venerable parent. The agitation of my Spirits threw me into hysterics; : my William was almost distrafted. Turn either fide, ihe beheld the two dearest persons to him on earth, in the; hiost distrested state. The Duke was conveyed to bedjj and, on recovering his fenses, desired pen and ink to be brought him, when,
: sup
1:
 . 29
Supported by pillows, he wrote the following letter;
To the Right Hon. Marquis of C — — — —.
AS I see! the funds of !ise are running low, my beloved fon, and as it is uncertain how long k may peas the a!mighty to pro!ong my days, I must endeavour, while I am abe, to render you all the reparation that !ies in the power of thy wretched father; and however painsu! and mortifying the recita! of my gui!t must be, yet it is the only method !eft me to Save you from ine vitab!e destruction;; without repining, will! perform the talk. My marriage with your mother C, was a match of interest, not of love. You, my fon, was the any fruit of this union. About two years after your birth, I quitted England with a design of vistting some of the foreign courts. The Duchess proposed accompanying me j but as her Grace, though an amiable woman, never postessed my love, I made some frivo!ous excuse; and She being of a mid > difposttion, sustered me to depart without her. To my shame, I must confess, I made this excelknt woman the worst of husbands. On my leaving eng!and I visited France, and proceeded to Italy, where I became acquainted with the daughter of a nobleman of that place, her name was Adelaide. We conceived a mutual partiality for each other, and for Some time carried on the tenderest correspondence. At length the busy tongue of Fame informed her of the duplicity of my conduct: : being assured that I was already united to an amiable and deserving woman in mv native country.
B 2 Tlsh
30 Laura and augustuis.
The next time I visited her at her convent she related to me the above intelligence. At first, attempted to treat it as a groundiefs report, raise
by some wretch who envied my happiness. Bu the sweet maid was not to be duped by so evafiv an answer: and Soon reading in my countenanc the truth I wished to concea!, forbade my futur attendance at the grate. But to keep you, m fon, no !onger in suspense, Suffice it to Say, !ov got the mastery of prudence. 1 Swore to abandon my friends and country j and as our stay II ita!y would be madness, to make France th place of my residence. Heaven was ca!!ed t( witness, that I should ever !ook upon her as m; lawfu! wifej and that it should be the whole stu dy of my life to make her forget those advantage she had for my sake renounced; that every ar should be used to make her retirement sweet j an( - that every Succeeding day in her charming Society would bring forth an increase of shlicity though even in a desert. I exhausted al! the eo quence of !ove, in pressing the lovey maid t( e!ope j and was so fuccefsfu!, that in !efs than < month we were fett!ed at a pretty neat cottagt near Fontainbkau. In this beautiful recess w( lived for six months; at length, weary of Solitude which by no means Suited my disposition, beinj naturally of a gay, roving, turn of mind, anc cloyed by posteffion, determined, vi!!ain as I was to abandon the gentle Adelaide; leaving her mistress of valuab!es to a confiderab!e amount, anc of the habitation we then !ived in, which I hac before presented to her. At this period the unfortunate gir! was far advanced in her pregnancy; neyertheiefs, my heart was rendered so ca!!ous b) frequent Seduftion, that humanity was banished,
and,
I
 . 3^
and, like a true libertine, was so ungenerous as to conclude, that any other fool would be as welcome as myself, what little partiality might remain, or recollection obtrude, dissipation very soon obliterated.
About twelve months after my return to England, your mother falling into a decline was ordered to the South of France. As I accompanied her, on my arrival in that kingdom, curiostty led me to Send my valet to Fontainbleau, to inquire after the fair Italian. On his return, he insonned me, that the lady had died in childbed, and that the comtesse de Davenport had taken the little girl under her own protection, and treated the infant with every mark of maternal tenderness This satisfied my feelings (if I had any) as I well remembered the friendship which had Subsisted between the amiable comtesse and adc!aide. And though a!! intercourse of letters had for Some time been dropped, owing to my machinations; yet had I So great a reliance on the exalted sentiments of that lady, that my breast harboured not the !east doubt of her tenderness to the orphan of her departed friend.
Heaven afone can witness for me the remorse I see! for my past crimes I and what adds to the poignancy of my grief, is the misery into which my unpardonable folly has plunged my unfortunate chi!dren.
Had not shame tied my tongue, my lord, your first address should have been answered by a fui avowa! of my guilt.,
But, gracious Heaven I when 1 confider that one moment’s delay would have sunk thee, Wi! * liam, and thy wretched Sister into infamy, and
B 3 the
3z  .
the greatest gulf of misery, I tremble at mysels^, and reason can with difsieuity retain her seat.
O I my Son, my daughter, my beloved chib drcn, pardon thy repentant father. Do not uurse his memory.i And, O! thou blessed shade of my ade!aide I thou injured innocent, rise not in judgement against thy base betrayer. Heaven will, I trust, in his great mercy receive my sincere contrition! Nature is Spent j farewe!!, my children. The bleshng of thy dying repentant: lather attend ye.
r
ELIZA IN CONTINUAT lull'.
T H E above letter, my dear Miss Levifon, > was not written without many interruptions; the shock my unhappy parent had received was too much for one at his advanced time of life. Nature Sunk under the blow, and a few hours ended his existence.
As to myself, and my beloved William, we lay eight days bereft. of our senses. Happy interval! at that moment we felt not the horrors of our Situation. My unhappy brother was the first who recovered the use of his reason j he insisted upon being conveyed into my apartment. The wretched youth vowed to watch the last embers of expiring life in his beloved Eliza. — He Swore to follow me to the grave, that one tomb should imite us. In this distrafted state did he remain, until at length it pleased the Almighty disposer of events to restore me to reason, and a just sense of my misery On the first dawn of recollection, I beheld my darling brother with the fondest folicli* tudc hanging over me, watching the extinftiion
or
y
Laura and 'august us 33
tir renewal of life. — — But; ■ good God! So altered, the shadow any of his former Self, Such wretchedness Seemed depicted in his once blooming countenance, - that I was near rdapfing into ray former Slate of infenstbi!ity j but the caresses of the dear youth soon brought nie to a just sense of my unhappy Situation. And when the idea, of incest rushed across my mind j F pushed him' from me with the utmost horror! To paint'the Sooks of my distrafted'williatn*at that instant is' impossible! Pe rmit'me to, ' draw a vei! over this heartrending Scene, i andtor a" few moments to !ay down my pen.
, I am now more cam, and will! therefore hash ten, while able, to the cohciusion osh my melan' cho!y ta!e.’,,. •
My kind benefactors inststed oii ah Immediate feparationi To attempt a description of our, ‘ parting would be'vains' Your she!ing heart will best paint our mutual agony! My be!oved brother, recommending'his Hshfated stster to their tender care and aflfeftion', departed for his native country, in 2 state of the most poignant wretchedness.
The Comte and comtesse, thinking that any. correspondence would but Serve to nourish our grief," strenuously forbade any intercourse whatever, until time and absence had rooted out that cruel passion which predominated alike in both.
I pleaded hard with my friends for their permission to retire to a monastery, there to hide my Sorrows from the prying word;; in vain : my brother on his departure had made it his request and had gained a solemn promise from them, to use every art to keep me from So great a faerifice, / as my beloved William styled it.
B 4 For
A •
34  .
For two months I dragged on a wretched eir* jstence at Montpelier, to which place my more than parents had removed me for the benefit of the air j as I was dec!ared to be far gone in a decline. Alas! where is that medicine to be found that can cure a wounded mind! The air has no cfseft upon a broken heart. However, my generous guardians, wishing to try every means to Save my miserable life, called a confutation of physicians, who gave it as their opinion that the last recourse which they had !eft was a voyage to Some of the West-india fett!ements.
My friends, anxious for my recovery, determined to send me to Madeira, having a re!ation fettled in that place. They would have accompanied me thcmsclvcs, but the amiable comtesse was afflicted with a disorder, which a Sea voyage, would have rendered Satal. Our parting was mournful. But I had Survived a still more cruel
separation. O! my brother, my " — - -.... gracious
Heaven, pardon thy weak Servant!
A woman who had been my nurse and her husband were my attendants. We arrived aster a prosperous voyage at the house of Monsieur Fontaine, whose family received me with the utmost tenderness;; tried to make Madame Fontaine, Sensible of the necessity there was of my taking the veilj and, as that lady was one of those who are bigoted to their religion, easily succeeded.
She declared, that she looked upon my misfortunes to have been a call from Heaven; that, by thus Sacrificing the world to God, I should by that means wash out the ofsences of my unfortunate mother. As to my father, he was a heretic. I must confess, the freedom she used in Speaking of
my
 . 35
my unfortunate parents made me so unhappy, that I mourned their misfortunes in private,; and shed a torrent of tears to their memory.
About a month after I had resided at Monsieur fontaine’s, I found means to elude the vigilance of my nurse, and with the assistance of Madame Fontaine entered this retreat; where I wait with patience for that happy moment which will free me from a !oad of misery. I feel, I have not long to remain a burden in this life. The image of my ill-fated brother is ever present to my mind and What is become of the unfortunate youth. Heaven only knows!
The any wish I have now remaining, 19, that my wretched body may be conveyed to Bjuoipe, and laid in that vault which will receive fhe remains of my dear wi!!iam. To this purpose I have written to my asseftionate friend the com teste, and trust, this my !ast request will! be fulfilled. I am now worse than I have yet been; my strength is nearly spent j exhausted nature cannot hold out much longer. I see! the vita! Spark expiring j a !itt!e longer, and I shall be rto more.
■■adieu, my charming friend; permit my memory to retain a place in your heart j and that Providence may shower down his choicest blessings on your head, and keep you in his watchful care, is the fervent prayer of the unfortunate — — — — »
Eliza. •
• J \
B 5 LETS

LETTER V
Grenada.
Misa LEVISON TQ MISS BYNG..
H E day after my receiving the unfortunate eliza’s packet, I Sailed from, that de!ightful Spot. But, before my departure,, entreated Miss so!!ey, a young lady of Maderia, to Seize every opportunity to inform me of the health of the sweet fufserer, which She has promised to do. We arrived at the end of our perigrinations on the first of September, and !anded without any of those terrors I had encountered at the before mentioned istand. We were immediately conducted on horse baclc to my sather’s estate, attended by a number of gentlemen,, inhabitants of this place,, who came on board tomomp!iment us. The staves, having received inteliigence of our arrival, had asiembled themselvcs at the dwelling house, to welcome our return. Their delight at beho!ding their young missey (as they style me) was great. As for my part, I had not the least recollection of any of them, having left the West'indies at four years of age.
Figure to yourself between two and three hundred black men and women, gathered together, about your friend, and expressing the most extra vagant joy, which their faithful bosoms could dictate.
I really
 . 37.
I really was !ost in amazement, and was hear ti!y gad when I was released from so baby!onian a noise, as it was late before this ceremony was ended. I soon retired to my chamber, and being fatigued with the hurry of the day, my senses were quick!y steeped in forgetfu!nefs.
The next morning my Sight was enchanted with the beauties of the Surrounding prospeft. The house stands upon the Summit of a hi!!; at the back of the dwefling you command a most extensive view of the towns ca!ied Mark and La Baye, with a!! the Shipping. In the front gastery you behold the greatest variety of wood and water you can imagine with a number of gent!emen’s p!antations Scattered about.
The Sruits of this istand are very fine, and in great abundance, and grow in genera! Spontaneous. Every kind of !ive stock V e have in the utmost plenty; beef and vea! excepted, which is Seldom to be met with, 'unless a proprietor kils them upon his own estate, and then a joint of ‘ either is esteemedm genteel present.'
Tshe people are hospitable to a Solly, and live in a very Superfluous style; indeed, they in general keep up an appearance far beyond their income; ‘ therefore (what with’the loss of negroes, oattle, ^ bad crops and their own extravagance) frequent ly the wealthiest planters in ’ a few years are reduced to a perfect state of indigence.
We have Several agreeable .Drench Samilies ■ among us, - which I esteem a very great acquisition, as there are very few'european women Settled here j T cannot style them • ladies, for they are in genera! (one or two excepted)' : he refase of ^ Engjaind, Scotland, and Ireland. ^
Wtf
5?  .
^ We are the only English family that vish among the French j I like their society much, they are a !ive!y, good-natured, generous people, and make it their study to oblige and entertain you. Sincerity I never trouble my head about, it is not their characteristic; and indeed deceit is a coin so current among ai ranks of men, that they who flatter themselves with finding a friend in every acquaintance, may rest astured that they wi!!, like poor David Simple, be most woefu!iy disappointed. For my own part, I beho!d hypo crisy dea!t with So !avish a hand from one to another, after the warmest professions of esteem and regard, that ’tis with difficu!ty I refrain from laughing, when the Same profusion of words are ofsered to me: the fmi!e that payson my countenance, upon these occasions is usualiy construed as the estufions of gratitude, and an acceptance of their proffered friendship j while in my heart, I most cordially dispife the speaker. For how few are there in the world, that know the just etymology of the word friendship! methinks ’tis a word that conveys so extensive a meaning, that there are few hearts capable of defining it.
A generous friendship no cold medium knows
Burns with one love, with one resentment glows :
One (hold their passions, one their interest be
My friend must hate the man who injures me.
Got.
You, my Cecilia, have a mind replete with al! those nob!e and generous sentiments, and a heart fusceptib!e of all those delicate and refined feelings which are so great an ornament to human nature, and which alone can render friendship permanent.
Bui
I
 . 39
But I must now draw this scrawl to a conclusion, or shall far exceed the limits of a !etter, and my packet is already Swelled to a most enormous nze : a vestel is just coming in, therefore will not Seal this, till I know whether there is any letter from my friend.
I have received yours as expected, my sweet girl, and was highly delighted with your description of Lady Charlotte Bruce; she is a good-natured creature, and I believe postestes a good heart; though her extreme giddiness, and turn for Satire, has created a doubt of that in the breast of many. Make my compliments and best wish es to her, and tell her that I stncerely hope the solemnity of matrimony may not have too powerful an efseft upon her Spirits.
You know not, my dear Cecilia, how tenderly I Sympathise with poor Harriot Sidney j indeed I love her, she was ever of an amiab!e, mild difposttion, and the sttuation of her mother must fevere!y aflsift a girl of her quick fenstbi!ity. But rea!iy divorces are now grown so frequent, that I expect shortly to See marriage totally abo!ish ed. I wish there could be Some punishment invented for adu!tery, so as to render infide!ity !efs common: methinks not only the women but the men should be punished, for the fault in genera! originates with them. would that our legistative power would take this hint into constderation! But as their sex is (as I have already Said) the primitive cause of the difafseftion of the poor females to their lords and masters, how can I be weak enough to imagine, that they will study the good of posterity in defiance to self-interest j But whither am I wandering to? diving, the men
will
o  ’.
will say, beyond the depth of a feminine pen; I win therefore with submission, confess my presumption, and: b.c. content in subscribing myself, your Sincere and aflpeftionate friend,
Laura Levison.
Pi S. A Iftter is just brought me from Miss sbs leyj ’tis encioscd for your perusal. You will there see that the ill fated eliza is no more.
>
E. E T T E R VI.
Madeira
MISS SOLLEY to'miss LE VISON ■
/

T EMBRACE this opportunity, iny dear Madam, of fulfijling the pj^omife I made you af parting and wish it were in' ray power 'to Send '; you more pleasing intelligence. Ihave called Several times Since your departure at" the convent of. —, to inquire after the unfortunate
lady you mentioned. A sight of. her I mover was • able to gain, as: I was informed by one of the Sisterhood, that she had been confined to her cell for Some time, and that they did not expect she could hold out many days !onger, for that her strength (eemed> entirely gone,, and. her instde ‘ wasted awayi
tm *• _ _ I
This
A
 . 4: 1
This answer was all the satisfaction I could gain to my repeated inquiries. About a fortnight ago I again visited the grate, in hopes of hearing: a more favourable account of the unhappy lady. A nun appeared; ■ she Seemed to have been weeping. I named e!iza, and the tears streamed afresh; I reiterated my inquiries j she answered' ' a Sigh, She was no more; that her sorrows were now !pdged within the cold'and Silent bosomi of the grave. — — — She died, ” continued she, ** as she had lived, pcrfeftly resigned. Sister Eliza, had resided among us a very short time j but her exemplary conduct, her mild, and Sweet dispofi tion, her zealous and, fervent devotion, had acquired her the prayers and love of our whole Sisterhood. She expired lash night without a groan. Not a dry eye was to be Seen within our wallsi. Never was Suffering angel more lamented.”
I have Since heard, my dear miss levison, that' interest has been made by Some friends of the de ceased, to have the body preserved,, and Sent, to Europe,, there to be interredi
1 have now, my dear madam;, obeyed your commands, and my own wishes,, in giving you every information that lay in my power to procure, and am mortified my inte!!igence is of so me!ancho!y a naturebut as the young shady’s Sorrows admitted; of no alleviation, deathi must have been a welcome relief. The fair Eliza might’ justly.be styled ".Dhe child; of sorrow,, baptised'
in. tears.” Believe me,, madams though I had
not the pleasure of the unfortunate lady’s confix dence, yet do I Sincerely lament her untimely fate: youth, beauty, innocence, and'truth', cut off in the full pride of yearsi Alas, what must -
her
I
4z  .
her unhappy brother feel! Wretched youth, thy fate is truly deplorable! The grave, in thy situr ation, must be the most welcome asylum. My heart, my dear Miss Levifon, bleeds for the unhappy amiable Marquis. I sit and ruminate for hours on the fate of this ill-fated pair, till my Spirits are so dejected, that I am rendered inca pab!e of enjoying the Sweets of society. At this moment I see! the tear of sympathy steal down my cheek j and lest the me!anchp!y which fas from my quill should increase your anguish, I shall take my leave, with wishing you every hap piness which this mortal state will admit, and Subscribe myself with the warmest esteem for your many amiable virtues, my dear Miss levi fon’s Sincere well wisher,
Caroline Solley,.
y
)
i \
/
/
%
L E T
f
 . 45
rc
/
LETTER VII
Grenada.
MISS LEVISON TO MISS BYNG.
O T E A L I N G from the noise and bustle of ^ company, Laura flies to the bosom of friendship. Yes, my Cecilia, this epistolary converse is my greatest comfort: the continual rounds of company in vvhich I am engaged ill Suit with one of my retired, thoughtful turn of mind.
Our house swarms with visitorsj I can scarce find time for a moment’s reflection j their conversation fatigues me. I was neceshtated to excuse my absence from the card table, by complaining of the headache.
The serenity of the evening is delightful j all Nature Smiles around. I am now sitting upon a large stone at the top of a gentle riling hill j and, for a table, substitute my knee. My seat is on one Side Surrounded by sugar canes, and on the other by a hedge, formed of lime, orange, and pomegranate. The wild melody of nature’s foresters, the gentle cooing of the dove, with the prattling of a beautiful cascade, lulls my Sou! into a kind of heavenly tranquillity.
This sweet Spot I have given the name of Orange Grove and mean to have a little building erected here, where I design placing my pianoforte, library, drawing and writing utensils; which charming retirement shall be appropriated Solely to my own use j for none shall be admitted
whose
4
, 44 Laura and augustu'si
whose souls are not congenial with my own. Here will I dedicate many hours to improvement j and', thinking on the virtues of my Gteilia, try to imitate them.
The appearance of a Mr. Montague interrupted me this afternoon j he was at my elbow before
I was aware. -- -- -- What, writirrg, my charming
miss Le vifon! What happy subject: employs your pen? But I fear I intrude. — — Not at all. Sir; and he Seated himself at my feet. I was only Scribbling to a friend, and she may thank you for this interruption; as my scrawl would have proved but stupid : for my thoughts run rather on the melancholy strain today— — — Miss Le vifon, (and he took my hand. He paused)) — what, Mr. Montague, — — — I would have Said, Madam,"! — that perhaps your heart stghs for Some amiable youth, whom the extensive ocean
Separates from your view.. — You have defined
right. Sir. My eyes ardently long to behold a shriend whom, the sea divides; but that friend is of jny own sex
Happy woman, to postefs the esteem of so inestimamable a heart! how many would envy your Situation! This lady, my dear madam, must have many rivals. Is there no happy man that Supplants her? Surely your heart is formed for the more acute feelings of love? He Sighed— — stgh, Mr. Montague; I fear theshttle blind deity has created some Small disturbance in your own bosom; as to myself, I defy his power.
But come. Sir, the company will wonder at our absence, we had as well return. On out entrance into the ha!!, we met my father, whe having ashed where 1 had been. Said, the ladies thought my absence strange,, and Seemed rather
-
4»
 . 4'5^-
displeased. I entered the drawing-room; the company rallied me on my fondness for solitude,, declared it as their opinion, that, were I not in love, I could not prefer the lonely grove to the more enlivening Snip snap Snorum; which game they were then playing. mr.boswell, a feemihg good-natured kind of man, came up tome with a puritanical gravity, and inquired whe there I had Seen Mr. Montague; J replied, yes,, that I had Seen him in the hall, and observed that he looked Sad. — Alas, answered he,. I knew not whether the despairing Strephon had not leapt from yonder clisf. — Why truly Sir the Soldier is greatly indebted to you for your kind Solicitude But h ere he comes j I will inform him of yota* friendship. — Montague, Bofwel! has been under great apprehensions upon your account, and has been making many inquiries after you. I told him 1 Saw you this minute in the hall j now. Lieutenant,. pray account for your desertion of thi s good company. He bowed. — your commands,). Miss Levifon, I shall ever be happy to obey : the card table, I thought, might dispense with my attendance; and as I felt an oppreshon on my stomach, imagined a short walk might be of Service in removing the pain. — And your walk. Sir, (Said Bofwcll) was, I hope, of benefit to you. " A ma foi Monsieur boswell returned Madame De Blondeau) la jeune homme a blen expliquer. Comment va la Santemon belle Soldat.” — Better, thank you, my amiable advocate. Said Montague, kissing her hand. — Etes vous las Monsieur?? — Madam, I did not walk Sar; I have been enj’oying the beauties of Nature in yonder grove. — 11 fair fort beau, ^ ce? ombres font Sort agre ables? — Enchancingly 1b. Motague and I now
'jpined
45^  .
joined in the game and played till Supper. After the cloth was removed (according to custom) stnging was proposed. 1 resused for Some time; at length I was prevailed upon, and warbled, " Young Lubin was a Shepherd boys’ Mr. Montague, who has a most melodious voice Sung, " Beneath a green shade Sat a lovely young Swain.” At one we retired to our Separate apartments; and, not finding the god of steep favourable to my wishes, have resumed my pen.
You will naturally ash me, my friend, who th is same hero is, who has So much cngrostcd my quill, and who dared with impunity break in upon my retirement j I will in as few words as poshble inform you.
Augustus Montague is the youngest fon of a noble but reduced family. The whole extent of his fortune consists in a lieutenancy. He is about two and twenty j a little above the middle Size, and elegantly formed. His face cannot critically be styled beautiful; but there is a nameless Something that renders everything he Says or does interesting. His complexion is pale his eyes blue, shaded with the finest dark fringes I ever beheld; his eyebrows delicately arched, his teeth white and regular. In short, my Cecilia, whoever converses with this deserving youth admire him, and cannot withold from him their friendship. He steals imperceptibly upon their esteem. The whole regiment love him j the soldiers adore him : in short, he is beloved by all who know him.
On reviewing what I have written, I apprehend, Cecilia, you will imagine this amiable man has gained an interest in my breast. But no, my sweet girl; love is a passion, I trust, that will never invade the bosom of thy Laura. The miseries
 . 4 “!
Series of the fair Eliza have fortified my heart against the Shafts of that little urchin Cupid. I esteem, I see! a friendship for Montague, but my heart is still my own; and therefore, my love, do not wrong me by fuipicions which I do not merit.
My mother is making great preparations against Christmas j my father having promised a ball to the ladies. In short for the next week, our house will be so crowded, that I fear I shall! not be able to converse with ray be!oved friend for these ten days j but this !etter shall be dispatched by the first ship that Sails for Europe.
Adieu, thou tender companion of my youth : may heaven bless and preserve you, is the prayer of
Laura Levison
N
LET
 . ^
I
LETTER VIII
t
\
MISS BYNG TO MISS LEVISON
/
An D art thou at last caught, my dear Laura?
Is thy inflexib!e heart Subdued by the irresistible charms of an Epaulette? Sure, red coats were formed for the destruction of our poor helpless Sex! But no, my Sweet girl, I wrong you, by piy unmerited suspicions; you see! any an esteem, a friendship for Montague. Ah! Laura, Laura, beware of deceiving yourself j it is the province of friendship to warn thy fenstbility of danger. Yes, my gentle friend, I See inumerable difficulties Surrounding this Satal passion. The cloak you put on was too thin for the prying eye of afseftion, Your very attempt to deny that Montague has made an interest in your heart, is a convincing proof of your tenderness j bestdes, my !ove, you was not always fond of Solitude. O 1 Laura, drive I beseech you this cruel intruder from your breast. You are yet a stranger to the repose ’twill rob you of, for I am sure your father will never consent to your union with a man, however amiable, who can boast no other ■fortune than his Sword. You know him to be postessed of an inflexibility of difposttion, which will never pardon the least deviation from that, duty, which he looks upon as his due j therefore shun the impending danger, that would plant daggers in your dutiful breast, and banish from your remembrance the too charming Augustus. It may not yet be too late to recover your former
 . 49
mer indifference. I like not Mr. Boswell; my judgement of this gentleman may be premature,
I will therefore drop his name and the above fub jcft.
Lady Charlotte Bruce was last: month married to Mr. Seymour. I have paid her ladyship the bridal visit. she seems perfectly happy, and Seymour doating!y fond of his giddy bride. I have promised Lady Charlotte to Spend a month with her at seymour va!e this summer j Harriot Sidney is a!soto be of the party. The sweet gir! ever makes the kindest inquiries after your !adyship; she !ongs to see you, and wishes to know if you design spending your youth in the Torrid Zone. She wonders at your courage in trusting yourfe!f among such an uncivilised fet of people as the Negroes. She declares, she should be in hourly dread and fear of receiving poison mingled in her drink or food. Indeed, Laura, I should in some degree postcfs her fears, but you are above such mean prejudices.
Harriot was wish me she morning I received your letter, containing the history of the unfortunate nun. The forrowsof the fair fulserer beguiled our eyes of their briny fluid, and rendered us ill calculated to partake of the pleasures we had promised ourselves in the evening. Lord Grey has built a pretty little theatre in his park, where ■the comedy of the Jealous Wife was to be performed. Among the numbers invited, Miss Sidney and myself were included. Lady Grey wished me to have taken a character j but, knowing my own incapability, I as politely as poshble declined it.
The play went oflf wish prodigious eclat, and was received by a most crowded and brilliant
com
I
50  .
company. The principal parts were performed by Sir wi!liam eag!e and Lady, Captain Bof tain, Mr. and miss Manfel. You may judge how highly I was de!ighted, who know my parti a!ity for theatrica! amusements.
An actress has this winter made her appearance at drury !ane theatre, whose amazing powersj like the ristng fun, dazzles all beho!ders. - She is at present quite the rage, the !’etoi!e the englisli Worship. Her patrons even pronounce her Superior to Yates, Crawford, and Young j yet. Strange. as it may appear, this same Mrs. Siddons offeree herself Six years ago to Garrick, and was refused; what his reason could be, it is impoffib!e to conjecture, as she is undoubted!y a most admirablt aftiefs, and plays the most to the fee!ings, of an] woman I ever yet beheld Her attitudes and ac' tions seem the result of nature, and to proceec from the fenstbility of her heart. She has, 1 think deservedly received furpristng favours from th managers, as we!! as the public. In short, th Siddo ns is the genera! topic of conversation at al tea tables.
goodnight, my Laura j I see! the drows god taking posteffion of my senses, and warn ing me that tired nature needs his kind assist anee.
Yours stncerely,
Cecilia Byng.
L E T
Laura ad Augustus. 51
LETTER IX
\
rofe biu
LIEUTENANT MONTAGUE TO captain YORK
1) Y Heavens! York, I can endure this racking ^ uncertainty no longer. My Sous, you know, is full of sensibihty, formed for all the luxury of the meting passion; but it is equally true, that the Sweetest delicacy had ever a place there. Nor could any woman, however fair, however lovely, have gained a place in my heart, whose mind was not cast in the most refined mould of feminine virtue and sensibiiity. You can witness for me, York, that whenever the Loves presided at our entertainments, the Graces were not absent, that in the very delirium of p!eafure the rapture was chastened, and the transports restrained). I have already, Ned, in a former letter * told you, that I had, seen in Miss Levifon all that my most Sanguine 'wishes could desire. I told you too, that she was beautifu!, that she was amiab!e. But, O! my friend, 1 could not tell you the tenth part of her perfections. Her heart is pregnant with the noblest principles; gent!enefs, and meek eyed pity. Sit enthroned in her lovely bosom.
vol. I. C To
■ ■ ✓ '
♦ The letter referred to is lost
t
/
52  .
To describe to you, my friend, the various pashons that agitate my distrafted soul, when I behold her Surrounded by a Set of insignificant flatterers. Is impossible. One Boswell, in particular (a child of fortune), gives me the greatest uncafiness: alarmed at his assiduities, the other evening I followed my !ove!y enflaver to her favourite recess, with a full determination to make my love known to her; though I doubted not, my eyes, those just interpreters of the mind, had already been the gentle mestengers. But a certain awe, oever attendant upon true aflfeftion, stopped the utterance of my words, and I returned to the house without, the wished fur relief.
For my self, I am well! .aware, tibe word will! not he my friend, nor the world’s !aw — intercsl. They will! probab!y say, that, fensib!e of my own Situation, as J must be, master of no greater fortune than an humble !ieutenancy, I have acted a base part in Seducing the aflfeftions of the daughter, whi!e the father entertained me with the greatest kindness at his; tab!e, and whose house I made my home. They will! probab!y say, I have violated the laws of frlendship j that I have broken through every principle of virtue; and that I have offered an insult to the kind genius of hospitality, the benevolent Spirit of good neighbourhood, and the Sacred and dignified powers of friendship 1 I mean not, York, to exculpate my conduct, let the fervency of my love plead my excuse. Behold, the fair cause, Ned, of thy friend’s misery appears. I see her ascending yonder hill j she goes to meditate the virtues of an an absent friend; I will follow her, and with melting, youthful ardour, reveal the secrets of
my
‘ • r
, .• f ..r
«
 . 53
tny soul to her gentle bosom. Forgive me, fair Laura, for thua intruding upon your privacy.
IN CONTINUATION.
* V
GIVE me joy Nedl I have sighed forth my artless ta!e in the ears of the charming Laura; and she did not disdain to listen to my humb!e Suit. —
. By my Sou!, York, I am the happiest of mor ta!s, I Seem to tread on air.
The Sweet girl at first referred me to her father; but, when I painted to her the little probability there was of Mr. levifon’s consenting to give his !oveiy daughter to the arms of a needy lieutenant, She replied, sweetly blushing, if her father consulted her happiness, he would bestow her hand on worth, and not on wea!th.’*
Heavens! my friend, what a treasure is this woman I how disinterested, how every way amia b!e 1 there is an irreststible grace attendant upon her every word arid movement. Her Sou! is the receptac!e of every virtue j how blessed will thy Montague be in the posteffion of so inestimable a jewel!
We have agreed to keep our love a profound Secret from the family for Some time; as I have convinced her, that a separation would immediately follow the discovery.
i have entreated her to make Madame De Blondeau (an amiable French woman) the confidant of our mutual attachment, to which she has consented.
C 2 Adieu :
I
/
54  .
Adieu : when writing to your lovely lister, present my best respects, and believe me to be th Sincere friend —
Augustus Montague
»
E T T E R X
r roje iiilh
\
MISS LEVISON TO MISS BYNG.
O Cecilia, the amiable Augustus has confestcd to thy happy friend, that she reigns foie mistress of hig heart; had you heard the dear engaging youth vow perpetual truth and constancy j you, my sweet girl, no more than Laura, could have withstood the jnstnuating pleader; with bushes I confessed a. reciprocal esteem. ■ But, ah! my friend, what happiness is there without, its alloy I I am convinped my father will never consent to our union, knowing his ruling passion.. be avariee. Then can I imagine he will ever permit me to bestow myself upon a man in the Situation of Montague? Indeed, Cecilia, thy Laura feels; were she deprived of the hopes, that fate would one day bless her with the man She loves, her existence would b.c. rendered insupportable.
With
4  . 55
With him alone, and only him i’d live,
it’s all 1 alk, and all that Heaven can give \
Vo other object: can admittance find,
> Whilst his dear bright ideas fill my mind
Our ball is over j Courtney was my partner He dances most admirably j grace was in al! his steps. We were the any coupe that figured in the Devonshire minuet, and, I asture you, came olf with very great applause.
L am now making great preparations against a fete champetre, which the governor gives the ladies on his quitting this istand. My dress, I think, will be truly elegant. My petticoat is of white lustring, a Spangled gauze thrown over it, and festooned with wreathes of flowers consisting of roses, myrtle, and sage, fastened with festu« cous bows; round the coat a flounce fringed with Silver. The gown to be crape studded with Silver stars, and fringed all round with a broad si!ver fringe; she body to be made of white luf tring, the steeves of Spangled gauze drawn to the wrist, with flowers twisted round the arm, a Sash of tiffany tied with a bunch of roses; this dress to be worn over a sma!l hoop; .my hair without powder, the front to be pinned up in !argc curs, the hind hair to hang in !oose ringlety about my neck and shou!ders; on one Side of my head a turban of white crape, ornamented with a large plume of ostrich feathers.
My amiab!e Montague has has made me promise to figure in an a!lemande with him. His dress will be no less elegant than mine; could it be otherwise, when it was laura’s taste? his waistcoat and breeches arc white lustring, the
C 3 waist
J
/ I
56  .
waistcoat wrought in rofe buds, and fastened with bunches of Silver j the knee bands worked as the above, and tied with ribbon; the couleur de feu ille morte, a j’acket made of the most beautiful tambour must in lined with white; his hair, which is of the finest brown, without powder, is to flow in ringlets down his back, loosely tied with the above coloured ribbon. I, laughing, tod him,
'that upon this occasion he must use a litt!e rouge to render him quite irreststible. A our dresses are to be kept Secret, that the stght upon meeting may appear more strikingand could but my Cecilia add one to the party, I should think the pleasure of the evening complete. Montague sends to request, I will favour him with the pleasure of my company, in a ramble j destres I wist observe the refulgence of the moon, whose mild influence tempts the evening walk. I will not refuse the artful p!eader, as this will be the last evening, in which I shall enjoy his dear society for this Sortnight.
The encroaching rogue has been trying to draw me into an epistolary correspondence with him, during his absence. I have, with the Sortitude of a hero, denied his request j but, I fear, my resolution will! fai! the first tender bil!et I receive from his dear hands. Nay, it would be a breach of poiitenefs, my dear Cecilia, to Suffer a friend’s letter to remain unanswered.
But I must now, my Sweet girl, close this Scrawl, to keep an appointment I have made. You start, my love'! well you mayj an appointment after the family is retired, has, I confess, a very intriguing Sound. But to ease your Sears, learn that the ashgnation is with a female.
Madame
 c 51
Madame Dc Blondeau and I have agreed, attended by our Mulatto women, to bathe in a pretty rivulet. Shaded by bamboe and other trees j this spot is quite retired, and lays at the bottom of the hi!!, I in a former Setter mentioned. to you. The foot of man, I believe. Scarce ever trod this Spot; and it was by mere change that I discovered it. You may probably be Surprised at our temerity, in venturing at So late an hour to So Sequestered a place. But I must inform you that its distance from our house does not exceed three hundred yards, and that, sofar from apprehending danger in this part of the worles, we all Sleep with our windows and doors unfastencc. My maid reminds me, that it is time for me to depart; so adieu, my charming friend,
Yoursy
f
Laura LX vis on
* ^
C 4 LET
•
•,
4
58
f
LETTER XI
V
/
/
BENJAMIN BOSWELL, esqj TO JOHN WILSON.
^ O N F U S I O N Seize that pale faced raf ca! Montague! the fellow has got the start of me. Yes, Wilson, Laura, like most of her stl!y sex, has been caught by the glare of a red coat. The pennylefs dog has gained the heart of the only woman I ever liked well enough to make my wife. While I, like a whining puppy, may Sigh and bc’^ — — By Heavens I it shall not be, laura’s person shall be mine, let who will take her heart I I will Swear old Levifon to Secrecy, and then inform him of their romantic love. I have already said enough, to have awakened the suspicions of any man, except Such .an old droner. I am Sure he’ll not susser this Sen
i
timental blade to marry his daughter j for the old rogue loves money to his Soul. At the same time I give him the above intelligence, I will offer myself as his fon in law. The Sight of my rent roll will work the old fellow in my favour. In the mean time, I shall take special care, that Madam does not steal a wedding upon us. The dovelike creatures have frequent meetings at a place, the romantic girl calls Orange Grove.
This
 . 59
This comes of people Suffering their children to read those ridiculous books called novels. There is tonight a fete champetre at Bevile lodge:
I shall request the honour of her hand for the evening; but I suppose the pretty miss will be • engaged to her lover. It does not Signify, one evenings pleasure they may enjoy j for 1 shall b.c. greatly out, if they have many more— — • — »
Benjamin Boswell.
L E T T E R XII
• t
y
Grenada.
/,
MISS LEVISON TO MISS BVNG.
'4
At the conclustonof my last letter, mydear Cecilia, I informed you of the design Madame De Blondeau and I had of refreshing ourselves in a cool liquid stream. The night was remarkable finej the moon shone with uncommon brilliancy, and exa(5uy resembled the following description :
As when the moon, refulgent lamp of n?ght.
o’er heaven’s clear azure fpi ead^ her sacred light
When not a breath dillarbs th air serene.
And not a cloud o'ercafts the folema Scene;
Around her throne the vivid planets roll,
Aad stars uanuinbered gild the glowing pole \
Over
C 5
5o
o’er the dark trees % yellow verdure i
And tip with Silver every mountain’s head;
Then (hine the vales, the rocks in prospect rise,
A flood of glory bursts from all the skies;
The confdous mind), adminng at the sights Eye the bjue vault, and bless the ufieful ligltt*^
Just as we had plunged into the prattling brook, the rustling .of the trees alarmed us : we quitted its gentle current, and; wrapping a loose gown over us, we stood petrified through fear. At length a female form appeared, and, falling at our feet, implored prote^ion. Surprised, and Scarce believing the obje61: before us to be real, we started The poor wretch,, feeing us retreat, begged us not to be alarmed, as she meant not to do us, any injury. — I am, continued the poor creature, unfortunate, but no! guilty: do, my dear ladies, let me implore you to listen to my misfortunes. We complied;; antk Seating ourselves upon the grass.. her tc do the same. Having recovered from our amazement, we had now'leifure to reconnoitre the figure before us. She appeared to be about twenty. Want, and Sorrow, had’ worn her to the bone : and, to complete her wretched aspc6s, she Seemed far advanced in her pregnancy. She was fair, but had not the !east trace of beauty. Her dress was clean,, but age had worn it thread bare.
She' began her story in the following manner. " I must entreat your pardon, ladies, for mj abrupt intrusion; butthemiseries of my Situation will, I hope, plfcad my apology.” We told hei no excuse was necestary; that the tears of the affli^ed ever shared our tenderest Sympathy; and
there
 .
therefore, if anything lay within our power to Serve her. She might without ceremony command us. She bowed; thanked us, and proceed CD
** My father postessed a Small curacy in Wales; I was the eldest of ten children. At a proper age I was Sent to London, and bound apprentice to a' relation of my mother’s, who kept a capital milliner’s Shop in Tavistock Street, Govent Garden. Mrs. busy, who was a good-natured motherly woman, treated me with the greatest kindness, and gave me every indulgence in her power. With her I lived, perse6t!y content, till about a twelvemonth ago, when I became acquainted with one Lucy jones, a young woman in the neighbourhood, who always appeared a very modest, decent kind of girt She one day invited me to go to Deptford with her, and fpertd the day at a re!ation’s> who. She said, lived at that place. She also told me, that it was not unlikely we might dine on board her cousin’s ship. ( She' urged me to comp!y : young And, thoughtless, I too readily consented. I gained .the permission of my mistress and early one morning fet off with ray false friend. As She had predi6t ed, we went on board; The captain, on various prctcncesj. kept us down in the cabin, supplying us plentifully with wine and punch. Between four and five, I remarked to my companions, that it grew late, and proposed returning onshore. But Lucy laughed in my face, - and asked me if I did not know we had been three hours under sail for Jamaica? Lamentations'rvere vain — i' Too late, ladies, I found that I had been' basely decoyedi.from my friends,, and that Lucy was nothing:
V
62  .
thing less than the vile captain’s mistress; and, wanting Some female companion, had hit upon this expedient to carry me off, and make me as wicked as herself.
** We had not been on teard a week, before that bad man, the captain, entered the state room allotted me, and used every art to compel me to yield to his brutal desires. The wretch even attempted violence; and I was ob!iged to lay for three weeks with an open penknife by my fide. At last, the Second mate, pitying my dreadful situation, promised me his protection, provided I would consent to marry him at the first place wc could make our escape to. To this proposa! I agreed; and by good fortune escaped from Maderia to this istand. My husband took a Small room in the town of St. george’s, and we pro* cured credit for the few necessaries we wanted, and lived for two months in that way; at last ouf Creditors insisted upon being paid, or that my husband Should go to prison. Alarmed at this, he one night lest she while asteep; upon which, they seized the few things that remained, and turned me out to misery and want. A Mr. vwil fon offered to maintain me as his mistress. Aiid I was furthermore informed, if I did not comply with this offer, I should b.c. taken up and thrown into gaol. Terrified at this threat, I fled; and chance bringing me to this spot, the watch belonging to this cane piece received me to his hospitable hut. I fworcsthc faithful negro to fe crccy j which he has, I find, most religiousty preserved. I have dragged on five months in this gloomy retreat, partaking of this poor creature’s allowance, and the produce of his little
garden.
 . 6^
garden. But thoughts of the dreadful hour which now approaches, and the idea of what must be the fate of the helpless innocent I carry about me, determined me to apply to Mrs. Levifon, to whose husband I am told this plantation belonged On Speaking of her fatherless babe, Ihe Shed a torrent of tears. We Soothed the unfortunate girl, and promised to have her provided for. I would have had the unhappy creature return home with me that night, but she begged to be excused, till she knew whether it might b.c. agreeable to my family.
The next morning I related her pitiable talc to my mother, who fortunate!y wanting an upper fervant, her own being obliged to return to England for the recovery of her health, agreed to receive her in that capacityi The unfortunate woman is now with us, and seems well! ca!culated for the place she is in. Should the chid live, I mean to take it under my own prote6iion.
We have Since made inquiries after the wicked captain, and his vile astociates, and have heard that the wretch, and al his crew, perished in. that unfortunate hurricane which happened in the year 1781. Do not these circumstances, my dear Cecilia, show the workings of an a!! wifc Providence? Great God I how uncertain are all the enjoyments of this !ife I Shortsighted mor ta!s! how vain are al your earthy pursuits. Today, you probably arc planning how you may acq, hire wealth and fame; or perhaps flattering yourselves with the idea of enjoying years of bliss, with the objet of your tenderest afse6iions j likely ye are ustng every art to ensnare unwary innocence, when perhaps in the very moment
that
64  .
that ye think success will crown your wishes, the sharpened feythe of death, with one blow, levels you to the earth. O, my friend I how prepared ought we all to be, to meet the Summons of so! grim a tyrant! People in genera! are too apt to
j put ost the hour of refleflion till too late; and in
■ of accustoming themselves to look upon the
grave as the necessary appendage to mortality) they Seem to live but to pleasure, and forget thai the extinfition of life is a debt we must all om ' time or other pay.
Let not you and I, my Cecilia, so!iow the cx< amp!e of the world; but by frequently using ourselves to reflet upon futurity, learn to beho!dth( grave divested of its terrors; and, dying as Chris tinns. Say,. O death, where, is thy sting! C
grave, where is thy vi6iory 1” -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Thy sin
cere
laura le.vlsan,
'M ■ •
/
\
\
/
! •
i
■ rv ■
■■. '
%. V "
I ■ ■ '.
t ".
1 IS
1
V
1 t *
. I
• * - /»
1 * - ^ *
i
i '
•t
Lauka AND Augustus 6 y.
4
t
,, :, L E T T E R XIII
* * -
■-. ■ / ' .... ■■ ■ ■ ■
MISS LEVISON TO MISS byn<b.
E S T E R D AY, ray dear Cecilia, was the * appointed day for the fete champetre, given by Governor H -- -- -- -; the elegance of the entertainment
exceeds al! description;; and art Seemed to vie with each other in this rural entertainment j and I might with truth have ranked that evening as the most agreeable I have known Since I quitted Europe, had it not been interrupted by the continua! presence of Mr. boswell, who followed me like ray Shadow. Indeed, Cecilia,
I fear I Shall find him an unlucky acquaintance. Do not impute what I am about to say to vanii ty j but I apprehend that, in him, I sha!! find an obstinate over Ah! my friend, what will become of me, if my suspicions prove well founded? Alas! I tremble; a Summons to attend my father obliges me to lay aside ray pen for the present.
IN continuation..
W I T Et a trembling hand, and anxiousty heating heart I my Cecilia, I sit down, to entreat your friendly advice. I am in the most cruel state imaginable. Mr. boswell has, as I feared, made proposals to my father in my favour; l^s offers were too great to admit of a refusal, four
thousand
I
/
: i
L ^ ^
65  .
i
thousand a year was not to be reje£ied; and my father has Said his injunfilions on me, to prepare to listen to his addrestes. I pleaded ray youth, and disinclination to change my state. But to no purpose, bis commands were absolute. What course was I to take, duty and love at vari i ance? I wrote to Montague, desiring him to
meet me in the dusk of the evening, at the i Orange Grovei He was pundual to the appoint
I menti told him my situation and wept j he
^ tried to raise up the kind deceiver Hope. ** Thy
father, my dear Laura, ” (Said the lovely youth) ** can never remain inflexible to our united tears j nature will prove an advocate in our cause— — — ceased— —! Montague, my father will never consent, avarice is his ruling passion. In Short, the amiable man entreated. Should my parent prove obdurate, and insist upon my marrying boswell, that I would consent to blcss him by Sharing his little income. It is true, my Laura, ” continued he, *• the pay of a Lieutenant Is not worthy your acceptance, and the Splendid oflfer you rej’e^t. But, my sweet love, what wc want in gold Shall be made up in mutual affection. Perhaps fortune may Smile; I have Some I powerful friends, who will use their interest for
I my promotion. In the mean time, love, my
sweet maid. Shall be the sauce to our homely meal; the sweet exchange of tenderness Shall beguile the lone retirement.
these, and Such like arguments, does my charming Augustus use, to persuade his Laura I to what her heart is already but too well in dined.
But
I
1
(
%
I
I
I
 . 6^
But think not, my Cecilia, that thy friend is poflested of so little pride, or that Ihe is so little mistress of her passion, as to prove a burden to the man She loves. No, Montague Shall never receive my hand, without it can bring with it a fortune worthy his acceptance. But, at the Same time, I make this resolution: I Solemnly Swear, no power on earth, Shall! force me to unite myfe!f with any other; Heaven has witnested our vows of constancy, and they are registered ab: *ve. And can I then with impunity think of vio!ating that vow? Impoffibie! I feel, my friend, I have much to fusfer But there is no calamity, which I cannot endure without murmuring, while I pofless the heart of my Augustus, and heath pays upon his benevolent features. However, my lot will be soon determined, as Montague is to wait upon my father tomorrow;; which time I will quit my pen, and try to amuse myself with music. But I fear, I Shall say, with Ahneria, ** Am I more fenselefs grown than trees, or flint? O! force of constant love I Tis not in harmony to calm my griefs.”
The dye is cast: Montague is forbid these doors, and I am doomed to perpetua! wretched ness! My crue! father treated the deserving youth in the most outrageous manner. On ray augustus’s departure, he flew to me, and upbraided me in the most indecent language, his pashon could invent! To this harsh treatment, I am persuad ed, he has been urged on by Some foe to my re pose. I suspe6t Bofwel: God forgive me, if I do him wrong! But my reason for fuspeising him is, that an old Mulatto, who waited upon me when a child, and is now one of my attendants, overheard
\
68  .
heard Mr. boswell and his Servant Joe In deep conversation j when she heard the above gentleman damn Montague, and destre his man to keep a good look out. She further Says, that Joe has lately been very flush of money. Upon her relating these circumstances, I recolle: ed to have seen this Same Negroe, frequently walking about the Grove and the door of my chamber, but never till now entertained the least doubt of him. In order to elude this Argus, I have written to Montague, to meet me, when the family is all retired to rest, af the hut where the unfortunate Jenny resided so many months; as, I think, I car i depend upon the fidelity of the old watchman,
who so humanely assisted her in her distress. i ^ have also sent to request Madame De Blondeai to come and stay with me a few days j she is t worthy creature, and will stncerely Sympathise ir? my Sorrows. As to my mother, you know sh never dared to contradict her husband;; eve ruled with tyrant Sway; and She, poor woman must bow obedience under the rod of Lord!] 11 Man. I have often commiserated her fate, inbe
i! ing yoked to So tyrannical a being. But she
'dear good creature bears her lot with the fortitud
of a martyr.
I I hear my father’s voice: he may probably tak
it into his head to pay me a vistt. I will there fore put an end to this letter, with alluring you how stncerely — —
j I am my dear cecilia’s
I
Laura Levison.
(
i ■
I
I LET
r
 . 69 LETTER XIV
St. george^t — - —
lieutenant MONTAGUE TO MISS
• * LEVISON;
Heaven first taught letter for some wretch’s aid,
Some baniflim lover or some captive maid.
They Hve> they Speak, they breathe, what love infpircs^ Warm from the soul, and faithful to its fires.
’ pope’s Eloise
'y E S, my Laura, who could Support the heart rending separation, the cruel absence from all that is dear on earth, were it not for the Soft consolation attending an epistolary intercourse? It is this alone, my amiable, my adorable maid, that can Support thy Augustus in his dreadful banishment.
O, miss levison, life without thee would be an insupportable burden j existence would become the greatest of misfortunes, and the world appear desolate.
But two days expired Since Mr. levison’s cruel prohibition, and I already begin to -- -- -- the tardy
midutes. But how shall I tell my angelic Laura the state of my mind, when I confider the fituatioh in which I have left her, exposed to the
arts
o  .
t
arts and assiduities of a man countenanced by her father, and backed by his authority? Fear, hope, despair, and gries, alternate reign in my bread, rack my fond heart, and torture every vein. And, were it not for the exalted idea I have of the delicacy and nobleness of your sentiments, distraction would Succeed.
. O, Laura I why wi!! you not consent to our immediate union? We have enough, my Sweet love, with (Economy, to procure us the necesta ries of !ife. What need have we for its superfluities? Whatever is wanting, sha!! be amp!y supplied by the most endearing marks of tender !ovc and affe(9: ion. Yes, my charming maid, the bustnefs of thy montague’s !ife shall be to ob!itc rate from thy remembrance those advantages of fortune thou hast so generously scorned for his sake.
; I have been so hurried, my dearest !ise, Since
I my arrival in this town, that what with the heat
of the weather, which is rendered still more in i tense by the proximity of the buildings, and the ' agitation of my mind, symptoms of a feverish N disposition Seem hovering about me. But do not what I have said make you uneasy j for, be j '^^ured, my illness is too trifling to merit even a ' thought.
* I owe much to the tenderness of Mrs. Chrlf
'tian, at whose house I am now a resident.
I '
Governor Willis is arrived, and keeps mighty state, and levees. The H — —, C — —, and Party, with their families, took up their quarters in town above three weeks before his arrival,
'in order to Secure him when he did arrive : accordingly they penned the poor man up in Mel
vil’s
1
i \
!
 . fji
vll’s band box, until, for want of air, and an opportunity to breath, he was obliged to beg the privilege of two days to himself and family j and that in future his flag would fly when he was in a disposition to be teased, or to receive their adorations.
This has hurt their pride j he keeps all at an equal distance is determined to execute his maf ter’s instruflions j and, as his powers are absolute over the council, they arc reduced to a state of uncertainty, whether to acquiesce or rebel. I, you know, vas obliged to make my bow in the circle, and like him much; he seems a well-bred, sensible man. I wish much to know how Mr. Levifon will conduct himself towards him. Your father, you are senfib!e, is a wonderful politician. ^ I have been tod he was heard to say, that he should give him very little trouble for a long time, unless called upon by duty in a public capacity. You See Laura, how I communicate politics to you.
1 have little to Say to you now, my dearest love, unless I were to renew the subject always nearest my heart, and which I could ever dwell upon, but am prevented by the mestenger, who waits to convey this to your fair hands.
It is impossible to express my anxiety, to hear how 3tou go on at rose Hill. But I doubt not your goodndss will! !ead you to Soften the anguish of my mind, by a few lines to him who, with pleasure, fubferibes himself your faithfully devoted.
Augustus Montagvb.
LETI
i '
I
I
72  .
■ ■ ■ ■ w ■ ^.
'■ ■,
'■ * ^ ■ i C
L E T T E R XV
fadm the same to the same.
4 ♦ • II -
• i. t ^. / ■*...* » ', i ' ^ '. ■,.. '
I • «
L __, ■ •. ■ •
E N thousand thanks to my lovely inflaver fc her charming letter, which came most pppoi tunely, to revive my drooping strength. It prc ved the best restorative, that had yet been adini nistered to your Augustus. Saint, and languish ing, I lay upon the bed of sickness : the Servar entered, he delivered, me a !etter; the fuperferif tion of which befpokc the writer j I preshed it t j my beating heart; and imprinted a hundred kisses
on the dear contents — O! my be!oved Laurt I how shaui be abe to repay Such awor!d of gooc
I ness! who am a bankrupt in everything bi
love! You, and only, you, most lovely of yoi; Sex, are the ^ foie arbiteirof my fate! On yoi
! Smiles depend my very existence j Laura is mi;
ress of my every action, posheshes every thought.
If virtue were to take a htiman form
To light it with her .fmifes and nameless grace
O! ihe would choose the person af my love
Yesterday Lbad like to have made my exit i a very foolish manner. 1 have for some stim made a practice of drinking cream of tarta whey one morning in, the' week; and, by foin mistake, between the Doctor and my man The mas, he put about about one hundred and fist
grair
 . 73
grains of tartar emetic into a pint of milk .and water, all of which I drank off, except about a half Spoonful, which Mrs. Christian took wien she was Sweetening it with manna, and which had nearly done her business. It operated about an hour before I fuspefted any mistake j and, thanks to a noble constitution, and a happy resolution, it wrought itself off by noon, but not ' before it had thrown me into convu!fions, and cramp; my extremities were cod and chilled; and it was a miracle I got over it. It has demolished my throat and bowels, and I have sti!i Smart twitches of the cramp. However, experience will! teach me for the future to avoid any more mistakes of the kind.
I must lay by my pen unti! tomorrow, as my strength is not Sufficientiy estab!ished, to permit me to relate an anecdote of your father which happened the other day; and as I wish not to dispatch this till! I can with certainty inform you of the eveiiing on which I shall! vistt the good od northeast groe’s hut, with the p!eastng expectation ol once more beholding my adorable maid.
End of Vol, I.'
f
^ '. ',..... " V., ■
tf'. • • ’ ' ■ ' ‘ sifrit"' SV ?" ^^ ’ ' ■
E, ir ■ ■•. ^ ■ ■' ' ■
R. ' * ~ '"i ■ ' ~ "A
fa w, *. ' '■ - ', T' ' •. ■ ‘ ••->#. • f:
:. •, '^' ■ - ^>■' • -■ ■■ ’
^ •' • ' l' £' ' ^ ‘ ■ ’ i ^ .S -, -
% ^; _. ■ ■ ■tr' ^^ -• ■ -. • ' : >■ ly ■' K jae ■ ■ v'.v'
'' ''” ' f ii,, ■ '‘''' '
'- ' • _.•!-■»■ : '■ ^ ■ ‘ - ',;
^ tei". : •<'. / ^ '■ ' ‘
ife ^; r. f : - '->'■■' ■•>., ■ ■ •
I 1^. =.: L _■, ‘ i,. -.,...,.
•’ 1 - yfrar: - — ■ >y J : ■
ir.... : N. V A'.;. ■ ' -- M..,., /ic te^ll ' jfrii ', - :.
rn '. - • A.. .>■■ .•, ' ‘ -■ ' ' ■
»■ / : >■ ■ - I ' ^ y.. f *..., ■
- •■•■, 'i iy yy ' ■ • • ii.. • /■■■.• •» '
- ■ ■■! - •
S "■■ ■■■: - ^ W : ■ •. ■;..... •-
A v" V,, -,.,., :. '. ■;
T: i - - • ■■.
si f ■" •. t^y/t, .•.«• irt
K? 't I'ov C ii aln’' '• i?,; ..‘v r - >■, ■•.., ■
• V -. - -.. \; ... -.
lik ■ ■. ’ ' ■ ' ' *
■ ■ iv ■ • - LI ^ ^.. ■- ■.; .•
5^-1 : ' ■
4-' ^ i. w - '■ ^ •
'■ ' ^ ' ',
^ ^ ■ '■ *{. s' ‘ ^ ^ - I, ■■ '•. ■ ' • * *■ ‘; - i. ' ^. '. - S’ ^
V r - - V ■ : '
'* i -. ■ 'p: I. ' ■ ^ ^ ’ * * * ’ • * -
li‘ ', - - ' ' ' ■* • ' y >^. J \. ' V '■■’•; .» f ' ■■ • ■ ' t
./-., NO ■ ■ L - ' A.;, ^
g. y,, : ._., ^ - 7 T. • \ : : r ^ - -&; ■ '
..; -. ■ ■ ■ .’ C - ' '
i.... ' *,. ■'. “■■ '. '. f
: :. /. ■, \
T; N ^ • K„,,;. 'c; *'s'n, AA; '
- s - ...-.
..- -. ■" ■-. ' '
. ' i. ■ /' ■'•; V - ■'■• '• 0- '. •
■ V •-; ■ : ^ r. I. •
- \ ' Z
'' '. ^ -, ■•. ■■, In.' .' ‘ ' ■' - ■ / '. ■ •- ^ ■’
■ ' - •. •
. ■'• ' v‘ yn'; ■., ■ - -; V -■, -■
«
 ,
*
/
A N
AUTHENTIC STORY
IN
h
A SERIES OF LETTERS,
byayoung LADY.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II
n
\
.. — A whole host, a war of foes,
May sooner be Subdued, than love.
fhilli?s«
I
DUBLIN:
PRINTED FOR R. M0NCRIEFFE, G. BURNET,
T. WALKER, R. MARCHBANK, R.BURTON,
P. BYRNE, S. COLBERT, B SMITH,
N, CROSS, & J. CASH,
\
mjdcc^lxxjc IV
\
'"'■■■" * ■ t'^ktystc '■■
) i cl « T H i /. ITT,, '■> " ‘ ^! I ^ ''. I
V /nl' ',
B5xi L •_■ C /• '
■ "M' ••^.cc'' NN
kt V.;.; •
t. •■ ■ /.,. * '
': C imhkl
it \. ' ' - > /,
- '■ ■
■■ x- -- - •% v V r » ^ Wk
- '... '/ V yi i ■’ /■•‘^. •'.; ii'. I Si., isi
^■.D'. -’ * .’4. # AN *: '.. ^ > i t '* '■' 1
.'N" • ‘i
■■ : •' ■ -..-
''ri - ■ ■; -: rr' ' ‘^N ' ’ yd'
3^, F :,, T il.. ■. '
■. ■’; ■ -:. ■ .- '* ■ • .• - •
:; : -- :; V ' — .■ ■>- -.. ■ - .-
'-- 's ■■ '■ i.. ..,., ^?
•' •
"r, ■ • ■ T. ^ ' ‘ '. ^
, • '. V r
.y’ ^.
i " CI, -" ■ ■, /■
. - ^, r.3 f / • •• ' Tf n ■ ’ '• / • <5
, vi! ••! : • i.. ■■■ ■■• .^-' ■' f ■ '■"
^ -» t V V >-•«-. # s ', .' ‘ “s *■,,
.' - ■ ■'.
I
- •■ 0 ■
sat C i '/i V ■ - i' Aj II' ' ■-■ 1 •:
L ■;, '. ■ ' * ' ■. ■ '
'*.-' h ■. .t ^ ^ 'S" V -
': - ic' ■ * - ■ ^ ' ■ ■ ^ ■ ^. C
FV: t ‘ »
f: \ ^ ^.
N "iv £ i rf V A -- -- -- -- -- -- --.
',, *. f.. :.. >.
: ',. '. • «. r: : N »• •» 'r TT C fi » '
^ ‘ : ■ ■. ■ ^CS v' ■, C - _ • • - D
^ •’ ' - V - - ■ - ■•'■^‘" ' ^
C '.N^.CN ■•>...-,. ' ^ - ' ■
.dbn""'. ■ S. 'NH ' ' ' ■ ’ 'v
f'. ■'. ^ ■' • ^ • •
acc^ •-. C ' ■c^ If. .f • .:
; ■ ' '. - A k ■ -.
V * \ _ ■ ■-.. • C ' " i'
■■''•■'. ■, - Vvh - .' ‘ - ■ ' ” ' - - ■ ' ■-■ ■■■; ■. ■ b
AR ii -_- ■ -- - _•■’
"f ■ its; i«' « Jf rt :., •-■’ -' :. ■;. :; -. ?f; -; - Ayr. i " -
I "-_ ■•<. _-■ --
• .■>.-•■ ' • ’, » t y -. f...,. ‘....
. •' ' ■ .'^>. : i -. i .J .-\;. i
.. t : *■ t' r. * i ... -.,,,.
■.''■■ - ' ' -.. ■ *.
... Iff, '
V •■-.'*’ • *. ■
• •, : _ » " ■ ea. '
■ • • ' ' ‘... V i... _ ■ *. I
^ : : N.; •■ -. ': " a ..... •
^ y: : :,.. •.•.., -
-- ', : - ■ : ' -. ^ ••-... ■ ■, -
wv'ifm. - S ■ - ';, ... -
r' fr ' ‘ '. ^. ■ ■ -,
.ill- -- :, •.
t '
lull ■ ■■ — > y ihml■l■w■^o ■mi»c^ — Mill — Dii)
»
 .
»
t
•S
LIEUTENANT MONTAGUE TO MISS LEVISON.
IN CONTINUATION.
T RESUME my pen, Laura, to inform you of the anecdote relative to your father; you iare no stranger to the consummate pride he is master of, and the oddity of his difposttion. Last Friday he arrived from his little excurston, and ■wished to weigh anchor the same night for domu nicaj but before this could be accomplished, it was necestary for him to apply for a pastport at the governor’s office j he accordingly did, habited in a feaman’s attire, which dress it seems he always wears when on board his stoop. The long trousers, dishevelled hair, and unmowed
D 2 beard
i;
II
78  .
i' beard, did not bespeak the man of fortune, 0
■ great politician. But his pride would not suffer hi;
•; make any alteration in his dress; therefore, thu
I equipped, he made his appearance at the govern
! ment house j he inquired for the secretary: Mr
j Shiffhell appeared, whom he acquainted, that h
i wanted a pastport for his vestel, which was to fai
that afternoon. The Secretary replied, he cous not give him one until the Governor came inti, the officei nor could he disturb him, as he wa that instant Satxiown to dinner.
This was enough for your father’s fiery tern per; he, with a Sarcastic Smile, leaning upon; stick he held in his hand, replied; What, thi Governor is at dinner, and therefore my vesse must be detained here all night 1 By G- -- Sir this is very curious. 1 ash you, if you will! pleas( to give me a pastport or not? I have no time t( spare. Mr. shissne! deesared, he could not possibly think of applying to the Governor at form proper a time. Then G — d damn it. Sir, i the Governor has Such a voracious appetite, must go without it.
The Secretary not knowing what to make 0 this over bearing conduct, desired him to wait i moment and he would Speak to his Excellency He went to the Governor, and informing hjm 0 the above circunistances, requested he would jul step into the office, as he really did not know hov to aft:. The man’s dress, Sir, does not bespeal him a gentleman j but he Seems a damned keei fellow. Willis, upon this, rose from table, am accompanied his Secretary to the office: who they entered, the Governor ?nd your father ex
- change
 . 79
changed bows, and the following conversation ensued;
Gov. What istand is your vestd to touch aty
Sir?
Mr. L — —. Dominica, Tobago, arid likely Barbados. But I beg you will give me a pafi for all. Spoken in a surly tone. The Governory not knowing dw, did not deftre him fode featedi thu added greatly to your father’s ill humour
Gov. Pray, Sir, is the stoop your own?
Mr. L- -- -- don’t know but it may.
Gov. Pray, Sir, your name r
Mr. L — -- -- -- -■. My name is William Levifon',
if I know it. But 1 desire I may not detain you longer from your dinner,; it' may cool. My past port is ready, I suppose.
Gov. It is of nb consequence, Sir j my dinner is seldom' brought up very hot, therefore it will not become much cooler. You say. Sir, your name is Levifon : pray, are you acquainted with one William Levifon, Esq. that lives at — at~i forget the name of the place, a damned clever fe!iow, I am told? she Governor all this time holding a pen as in the attitude of vjritingff
Mr. L -- -- --. I believe I am.
Gov. Is he any relation of yours. Sir f
Mr. li- -- -- — -. think he is. Still leading upon
his cane
At that moment old Goldwire, secretary to the late governor, entering, run so your father what, Levifon, my od friend, who the devil would have thought of meeting you here : when did y ou land?
D 3 The
So
The governor was now convinced of what he had before suspefted, namely, that this was the very levison, that damned clever Sellow. The Scene was now changed : Willis had heard what a bitter enemy he was capable of being, as poor governor M — had already experienced. The pastport was ready. The Governor begged he would favour him with his company to dinner, and would take no denial. Your father, by this time, over powered by willis’s civilities, began to relax of his Severity, apologised for his appearance j and, on the governor’s ordering his servant to carry the pastport to the wharf, consented to stay j he was introduced to Mrs. Willis and her stster, and from that day the Governor and himself are become Sworn friends. I Suppose Mrs. levison and yourself will soon be ordered to town, to pay your compliments to her Excellency, whom I think you will greatly admire.
I will not, Laura, pain your gentle heart, hy making any comments on the above conduct; and will conclude with asturing you, how impatiently I shall wait the arrival of next Saturday, when I design myself the ecstatic felicity of once more beholding the objefit of my tenderest affection, the partner of my soul! Yes, my beloved maid, at the close of the evening, thy adoring Montague shall wait thy presence at the faithful negro’s hut j till which time he fubferibes himself, thy ever constant admirer --
augustusmontague,
LET.
 . 8i
»
letter XVI
MISS LEVISON TO MISS BYNG.
T W R I T E to you, irjy Cecilia, though ira prested with the most melancholy foreboding My father continues inflexible in his determination of Sacrificing your poor friend to that idol Wealth. The detested boswell is ever at our house, pestering me with his hateful love, from room to room following me like my Shadow. I have tried every art to move him to compassionate my afflictions, and to withdraw his odious ad dresses, but in vain.
The other morning, after he had finished one of his e!aborate Speeches, I addrested him in the fohowing words: " I fee!, fensibly feel, Mr. Boswell, the honour you do me. But, alas! Sir, what can I do? it is not in my power to return that love you so generously proffer me. My heart, I will! candid!y confess, has been for Some time engaged to a most deserving youth j our affection is mutua!; I !ive but in the hopes of one day being united to the best of men. Then, O, Sir, do not destroy this flattering expectation, but nob!y renounce your pretenstons, - — — prove yourfeif my disinterested, my .true friend, — — let me have cause to esteem, if I cannot love you;
D 4 my
8a  .
my Montague too will bless you for your generosity.
He heard me, Cecilia j the wretch did deign to listen. But good heavens! what think you was his answer??! Cecilia, I cannot pen it; the villain. Sure of my father’s sanction, treated me in the most insulting manner j rediculed my lover, and left me drouned in tears, for as the poet says —
Of all the griefs that harrafs the distress Sure the most bitter is a fcornfull jest;
Fate never wounds more deep the generous heart.
Than when a blockheads insult points the dart.
When the servant informed me dinnerwas ready, I Sent to request the privilege of remaing in my chamber, as I felt myself greatly indisposed; But the request was denied, and I was commanded to attend, or my father would fetch me if I. was too weak to walk. This ill natured stroke obliged me to quit me retirement. When 1 enter red the ha!!, the hypocririca! Boswell attempted tc
^ take my hand in order to lead me to a seat, which
1 with a proper degree of contemptshasti!y withdrew. My father frowned, and desired me to take a chair, for by G — d I will have none ol this damned whimpering, your sex’s usual art. O! Cecilia, it was impossible to suppress my tears: my father, with that degree of Spite which you know he is master of. Snatched my hanker' chief away, and imitated my Sobs. O! my friend, this was to much, my heart was ready te burst j I was incapable of fwalshwing a 'morsel. My father desired I would not quarrel with my meals, for by G — d (Said he) that is the most childish

  83
ish thing in life j and,. indeed. So he Seemed to think, for in my life I never remembered to have Seen him eat so heartily. Glacf was I, my friend, when the cloth was removed, and myself at liberty to withdraw. To prevent the mortification of sitting at supper, I undressed, and retired to bed : but was obiiged to rise, as Montague had appointed to meet me at our usu a! place of rendezvous. I concea!ed as much as possible from his knowledge the crue!ty of my father, and info!ence of boswe!!. For O f my ce ei!ia, I dreaded lest Some unhappy consequences might arise between that monster and my amiable lover j I have however guarded against it as much’ as human foresight poshbly could, by making my Augustus vow, in the most solemn manner, to avoid every chance of meeting him.
I have received, me dear, great consolation from the friendship of a Mr. Worthy : this gentleman happened’ to be present af table the day I was So cruelly distressed. I observed him to notice me with the greateshmarks of compassion in his man -- ly countenance. — The tear of pity glistened in in his eye j”. and on my quitting the room, he slipped a bit of paper into my hand, containing these words, written with a pencil Your
tearful'eye, my amiable miss levison does not plead in vain for pity in the breast of humanity! Look up. Sweet mourner, see where one'appears, ^ ready to lend thee every relief within the power of friendship to impart.' Command me. Madam in any respect j my house is at your disposa!; ■ and, believe me the pen of Henry Worthy northeast -- ver offered what his heart would not gladly perform.”
D 5 I. took
$4  .
».
I took his generous meaning, my friend, with regard" to his house being at my disposal; I have Since frequently pour’d niy griefs into his Sympathising bosom;; find him the best, the most generous of men; he is intimately, acquainted with Montague, and indulges my love by dwelling n his praise. Good God! the Servants infoito me poor Jenny is taken ill. I must lay down rhy pen, to visit the poor creature, who is greatly aitached to, my interest.
I
IN CONTINUATION.
SHE is as well as can be expected. The infant did not live to be baptised. My Spirits are fe agitated, that I must put an end to this epistle, ai I am incapable of at present adding more than that 1 am.
Your truly affeftiionate friend,
f
I Laura Levison.
I
J
I
I
j
j
I «
V
LEI
I
 . 85
• - ’ ^
i
... ‘ ■ '
LETTER XVII
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
^ E C I L I A, the fate of thy friend is hastening on apace. I must either embrace misery and affluence, or poverty arid Augustiis. : Oh! my friend, pity my distress. My father’s cruelty drives me to distraftion. But one poor Solitary week, to resolve what step to take. Alas! Cecilia, what can I resolve upon? bofwell’s I never will consent to be j and montague’s, prudence forbids. — — Heavens! what Sorrows am I doomed to encounter! The noblcj the generous Worthy advises me to give my hand to my amiable lover; he would fain : persuade me, i my father will relent when the step is once taken. " Consider, ” cries the good man, you are his only child j he cannot, will not, — nature will not susser him to throw you oflp.” — O! my geci lia, my weak heart would fain yield to these per suastons j and, indeed, I believe it must be at last the any step I can take. My charming Montague kneels, and with tears imp!ores me to deliver him from his crue! uncertainty, by consenting to give him the authority of a husband, to protest me from the machinations of that wretch' Boswell. Mr. Worthy inststs, nay commands it as a mark of our esteem, if I am driven to quit my father’s prote6.ion, and to unite myself against:
his
_ K
86  .
his inclination to my amiable Augustus, that we make his house our home, and his Servants our own. ** And as to you, my young Soldier, ufc my purse, my interest as you please. I have no wise, no children, no relations that I know of; nor am I accountable to anybody for my actions.” Are not these, my friend, uncommon, noble, generous sentiments?? —
generous soul, receptacle of good I With ardour glowm, and panted to redress
To feed the poor with hospitable food,
And sooth the pangs and tortures of distress.
His mind the most exalted gem possessed.
That gem was pity, offspring of the Skies;;
woes of others pierc’d his noble breasts And tears of pity flow’d at others sighs.
Few, very few, mydear friend, are postessed of his exalted way of thinking. Would my father had one half of his tenderness! but, God forgive me! I believe, there is very little of the milk ol human kindness in his heart. But stop my pen; he is still my father, and to him am I indebted for every advantage of education I am mistress of. I owe him many obligations, which my heart shall! ever gratefu!iy acknow!ege, or no longer be deemed worthy your friendship, or the afseftion of my Augustus.
A ship is to fai! this afternoon, j I shall! take the opportunity of sending you a few trifles with this scrawl, and fubscribe myself as usual.
Yours,
Laura Levison.
LET

*
 . 87
Letter XVIII
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
I
■jiyf Y beloved friend, the dye is cast; your Laura has consented— — what — to elope, Cecilia; pray heaven, she may never repent the step. — — My heart stnks within me, at the bare thought j — what must 1 then experience, when the hour arrives? — Ah! ray friend, what wretch edness may I not be preparing for myself! — what store of repentance 1 May not this step give a shock to my montague’s esteem? O Heavens! distra6tion is in the fupposition j — but, be it as it will, I must Submit, my promise is given. Next Saturday, I bid adieu to this dear Spot, the place of my nativity. My unhappy mother, gracious Providence support her on this trying occasion! Merciful Heaven 1 Soften the heart of my father, in his laura’s favour. O! my dear, my sym pathifing friend, if ever a step of this kind was cxcusable, it is in me. You can form no conception of the treatmeht I have experienced; my father’s cruelty is beyond credibility. Ah! Cecilia, could you believe, your poor Laura has been beat, cruelly beat, for no other reaf‘'>n, but refusing to unite herself to that despicable monster, Boswell. Next Sunday my father fwear§, by all the powers above, shall see me the bride of that hardened villain. Mr. Clastick, the clergyman, is a wretch dead to all the feelings of humanity.
88  .
manity, and a creature of bostvell’s What then have I not to apprehend from their united violence? My poor mother weeps my misfortunes, but that is all the relief she can afford me j my father has even threatened to confine her to her chamber, as he declares she supports me in my undutiful conduct.
Well then, my friend, next Saturday evening I once more trust this unfortunate body to the mercy of the waves. Our valued friend Mr. Worthy has procured a pastport for a Small vestcl of his own, to convey us to Montferat, as it is impoffibie the ceremony can be performed in this istand.
This kind friend, and my faithsu! Jenny, accompanies us in our flight. This poor creature’s affection to me, my dear ceci!ia, is beyond expression j she declares, she holds herself indebted to me for every comfort she now possesses; and vows, as a small mark of her gratitude, to serve me through every change of fortune I may experience. Ah! my friend, ought 1 not to be thankful to Providence for this faithful servant?? much more indelicate would be my Situation, so young, so inexperienced,, without a female friend near, to console, to comfort, to relieve my drooping spirits. Alas! my sweet companion of my childhood, I must quit this mournful subject, and dissipate my thoughts by a walk. I will, I think, take one more look, at that sweet recess, where my adored Montague and myself first exchanged vows of mutual constancy and love, I will bedew each beauteous relic of my former tranquil hours with, tears.
■ Thi
 . 89
The night is louring; well does it Suit the present gloomy habit of my soul, and bears a jusl resemblance to my grief. Farewell, my friend, I feel a strange foreboding, that wc never more shall meet: if So, may every good angel keep you in his watchful care! and when the hour shall arrive, that will summon you from this state of probation, may we, my amiable, my loved friend, meet in those regions of uninterrupted bliss, where no tyrant father, no wicked boswell, shall arise to disturb the tranquillity of —
Your unhappy
Laura Levison.
LETTER XIX
benjamin BOSWELL, esqj TO JOHN WILSON.
PE R D I T I O N overtake the fugitives!
tricked, by Jupiter, — was ever So artful
By Heavens! I know not a name vile enough to give her. But one day more, and I should have bid her defiance j sure the Devil owed me a grudge : however, you shall hear. Old Levifon, whose disposition, by the bye, you knov/ to be none of the most gentle, determined through my machinations to Source Madam to become nijr wife j everything was en drain Mr. Classic was to
perform
$
go Laura anb Augustus.
persorih the important ceremony j a licence was prepared j we were provided against faintings, tears, and all the cof female artifice.
Early on Sunday morning the father went to his daughter’is chamber, the door of which was fastened; he called, but no answer was returned. At length presaging what had happened, he burst open the door, and Searched not only the apartment, but the whole house, in vain, — the bird was flown. I, raving at ray own stupidity in not keeping a better guard, directed ray course to the Orange Grove, a hope still remaining that the litt!e Jezebel had fled thither j in this I was also disappointed. Old Crabtree, however, in his hurry to Source open the door of his daughter’s chamber, had rather used too many implements, for, not content with footing, he headed, and handled the door So dextreousty, that he Sprained his collarbone - disjointed his thumb. This added fuel to his fury, and in a rage he on'his knees not only imprecated most ardently, that misery might be his daughter’s portion; but Solemnly made oath, that, were she starving, he would not bestow a Sixpence to Save her from rotting in a prison.
On rummaging the building in the Grove,. I found a letter addrested to her father; and a few poetic lines, laying care!efsly on the table, whether of her own composing, 1 know not; and all I can Say is, that she is a very romantic jade, and shall not So easily escape me, as she imagines. By Jove, wilson I will yet have her in my pos festion, or I am greatly mistaken. But, when wc meet, you Shall hear what further steps I propose

I
y
 . i
posetotake; in the rnean time, I request you will take a ride over to my estate, and See how things go on there. I design being down in a few days.
Yours,
Benjamin Boswell.
P. S. Though hackneyed in Scenes of Sorrow, I must confess, I Seel Some remorse, when I behold the mother drowned in tears, lamenting as she calls it her lost child.
The Lines found by Mr.boswell in the
Orange Grove.
When night had cast her sable veil around.
And darkness reign’d throughout the midnight air
Nought broke the Solemn silence but the sounds The plaintive sound, that rose from deep despair rrwas then with pensive step the grove I sought
(Sacred to melancholy’s mournful train,) '
There pining fadness mark’d each restless thought.
While heait feh Sorrow urged the gloomy strain,
Once ye embow’ring (hades, (the child of joy,)
I careless ranged each inmost Sweet recess,
soul piereing thought!) ’twas then my glad employ To contemplate increasing happiness.
Yet oft’ for others has this bosom bled.
For others woes this friendly heart could feel.
Sweet heaven born pity drops of kindness shed
Aad wept those Sorrows friendship could not heal.
Then say, my father, will you now restore The peace of mind by cruelty betrayed 1 Ah \ what on earth can heal the rankling sore Which fell tyrannic's Sharpenedctooth has made? Presumptuous mortal I dare not thus complain.
But filent weep thy unexampled woes:
Shalt thou, the wise decrees of Heaven arraign?
Submit, nor dare it’s awful will oppose.
LED
92  .
LETTER XX
MISS LEVISON TO WILLIAM LEVISON,
ESQJJIRE.
Honoured Sify
T J R G E D by the misery of my sttuation, I ^ have taken a step which in the eyes of the world may be deemed imprudent j but my cafe is So desparate, I know no other means of avoiding a hateful marriage. Pity your poor child, Sir: could you but witness the agony I now endure, your heart would meltingly acknowledge the pa rent. Permit me, my still dear father, (for 0! let the wretched Laura once more address you by that tender name) to imp!ore your forgiveness, for this step which in your eyes may be sty!ed a breach of duty. Forget not. Sir, I beseech you, that I am your child j fusfer the many amiable virtues of my Montague to plead in my behalf; he beholds you with the utmost duty and respect j he longs to address you by the endearing appellation of Father. O! my honoured parent, do not, I pray you, dash from my lips the cup of happiness j your disp!eafure, my dear Sir, will embitter al! my future days. My unhapp)^ mother too — O! my heart f my father, comfort her, for the !ofs of her daughter. O Heavens!
I know
t
\
 . 93
I know not what I write; in a few moments I shall bid adieu to my parental abode j be merciful, Suffer it not to be a long adieu; on my knees,
I humbly entreat your forgiveness j and, believe me, my judgement and not my heart has erred.
I am now Setting Sail on a tempestuous ocean, where shoals and rocks are hid, to wreck the unwary mariner. But I will trust myself to the protection of that all merciful God, who never abandons the guiltless unfortunate. I also depend much upon the workings of parental love, and in that dependance bid you farewell. And O! may every watchful angel guard your pillow round, pour in the balm of consolation on your uneasy ‘ thoughts, and lull you to a forgetfulness of every care! My heart is too full: 1 can say no more — but beg you to pardon your truly asfeftionate, though wretched daughter, while labouring under your dispieasure,
/
Laura Levison.
P. S. My tender aflfeftion and duty wait upon my dear mother.
I '
L E T.
94 Laura and augu1stus.^•
L E T T E R XXL
Dominica.
MRS. sjontagije to MISS BYNG;
"SA O U doubtless, my dear, will be Surprised at the date of this letter; but my husband and generous friend, anxious to dissipate the gloom which my father’s unkindness had oceafioned, determined on our quitting Montferat, to vistt Dominica.
In my last letter *, Cecilia, I informed youths dreaded event was over j that I had exchanged the name of Levifon for that of Montague. Yes, my friend, ' could I but obtain the pardon of my offended' father, ray bliss would then be complete. Montague'is all gentleness; ever indulgent to his Laura. With the mostme!ting winning accents, does he sooth my griefs, when the displeafure of my incensed father comes athwart my memory. As to my dear mother, she was privy to my flight: I have written to her, by a friend who wist, I know, convey the !etter, unseen, into her dear hands.
O my friend, what acharafter is this Worthy! He entered my chamber this moment. — " My dear Laura, ” Said he, " you know I now !ook upon you as my adopted daughter, and therefore
must
A Thi* hetter does not appear.
/
 . §5
must not resuse anything from your father; accept of this, my sweet girl j it will purchase you a few trifles, which your absence from home may render necestary.” He presented me with a piece of Sealed paper, in which was inc!osed sisty Johannes, and instantly quitted the chamber, nor would permit me to return one stng!e, poor ac know!edgment. I burst into tears j not of pride, ceci!ia, but of gratitude. The god like man’s generosity overpowered me. I feel the aflfeftion, the duty, of a child towards him j and it sha!! be my study to Soften his decline of life, to Smooth the rugged pi!!ow of difease. In me he shal!.sind a tender, an asfeftionate chid; T owe him this, and much, more. My beloved Montague to will! assist me in the tender office. Ah, my friend, has he not been more tender to your Laura than an own parent? a!as, my dear, I never till! now experienced the sweet assiduities of parenta! afleftion. My father, mistaken man, ever treated me with that degree of Severity, which a!ways rendered his presence a terror, rather than a pleasure to me. When in company with him, my conversation was restrained, from a fear that I should inadvertantly disser in opinion with him. How, Cecilia, have I envied you the tender, the friendly confidence your father reposed in you, while mine Seemed suspicious of every look! Ah! my friend, how mistaken is that parent, who rather wishes his child to fear than love him? For which reason, when addref sing their unhappy offspring, they throw off all the milkiness of parental tenderness, and put on the asperity of a Severe judge. By this conduct, what do they acquire? It frequently hurries the
child
\
g6  .
child to indiscretions which they otherwise would never have been guilty of. It often brings shame and infamy on a respectable family; misery and repentance on the unfortunate fuflperers.
Think not my Cecilia, that in what I. have said J, mean to reproach my father, and to justify, my own conduct j far from it; I Sincerlyfor* give him : and may he' meet with the same pardon from heaven, for the heavy imprecations which I am informed he has pronounced against his helpiess daughter! Ah, my friend, were I not fensible of the justice of the Omnipotent Power, how should I tremble at so dreadful a denunciation 1 But Heaven, the all wise disposer of events, will not suffer an innocent child to fall a victim to a father’s unmerited rage. This subject, my dear, has rather unhinged my spirits: I must therefore quit my pen till more composed, when I will inform you of a very extraordinary story, which I yesterday heard at; the Government house where I dined.
IN CONTINUATION.
*
THE affliction which agitated my Spirits this morning, has in Some degree Substded, and I art now calm j and will theresore Sulfill my promise. Yesterday, by invitation, Mr. Worthy, Montague, and your Laura, dined at the govern ment house. On the removal of the cloth, ^ among the different topics of conversation which ensued, that of the possibility of people appearing after their death was introduced. For rny part, I never could bring myself to credit So improbable a thingj but a gentleman at table, the
lieutenant
 . 97
lieutenant governor of that istand, asserted as a fast, that in that very house he himself had beheld the apparition of a departed friend. This declaration raised my ciiriofity, and I entreated, if it were not too great a liberty, he would favour me with the particulars. He bowed, and begun as fohows:
When Sir wiuiam Y — — — — was governor
of this istand, I was a !ieutcnant in the — -- -
regiment; a gent!eman of the name of B was a fuba!tern in the same corps with myself. He was of German extraction, and had married a Miss L "j, by whom he had one chid, of whom he was extravagant!y fond. Mrs. B — —, soon after the birth of this boy, died. My friend, who was a man of uncommon fenstbi!ity, mourned the !ofs of his amiab!e wife with the greatest Sincerity; and transferred al his affection from the departed, to the !iving object of his care. When his boy had reached his Second year, Mr. B — — — — was ordered to this istand j and, un wiiling to !eave this !itt!e p!edge of his caroline’s love to the care of strangers, he hired a nurse for the infantj and resolved they should accompany him in his voyage.
My friend, who doted on this child, and whose whoie*happinefs centred in its little prattle, was never easy but when the little Edward was with him. If he rode out, you were certain of feeing his blooming Son Seated before him : in short, he existed but in the innocent smiles of his boy. About nine months after he had beeh stationed here, bustnefs carried him to the windward of this istand. At this time the Government, house happened to be exceedingly crowdedj for barracks not yet being built, most of the officers
were
Laura and Aucustu?
•were obliged to take up their abode in this mail lion, and double beds were placed in the chambers. A few nights after Mr. B — — — had been absent, 1 had not been in bed a quarter of an hour before I heard a person enter my apartment, and advance to my bed, and undraw my curtains. I found it was B — —. I inquired when he arrived in town.. ™ln reply, he informed me, he died that very night : and then, in the most pathetic words, recommended his Son to my protection, and disappeared. Struck with astonishment, I rubbed my eyes, and fain would have persuaded myself it was the viston of a dream;
but calling to Mr. M -- -- -- -- --, a gent!eraan who
stepped in the same room with myself, I inquired of him if he had heard anybody enter the chamber? He rep!ied, " Yes, I thought it was
B — -- -- -- -: what brought him here at so !atc an
hour.” — " Did you hear him speak” (Said I)? He answered in the*^ffirmative, but could not distinguish what he Said. I then related the particulars j and the next morning mentioned it at the breakfast table, when I was most Severely bantered. But, however, in the evening news was received of my poor friends death, who had fallen a martyr to a bilious fever, which attacked him the very day of his arrival at the place of his destination. This confirmed, what I had before related. I instantly took the little orphan under my protection j and on looking into my friends papers, I found forty pounds; and traced by some letters, that the mother and
lister of Mrs. B were living in -- -- -- - —
Street, H -- -- -- -- -- Square. I found also, that
though they were people of family, they were in
^ but
 . gg
but indifferent circumstances, and received a pension of fifty pounds a year from her majesty. Therefore considered it necefisary to inform'them of the circumstance : nevertheless I determined, in cafe no person should have pity upon his youth, never to abandon him.
And though a lieutenant’s pay is too trifling to mention, ’twas all the fortune I could boast, yet refo!ved he should partake of my scanty pittance, I embarked the child and his nurse for England j and gave the woman a letter to the grandmother, in which I enumerated the above particulars, and ordered her to carry hihi to ■■■
Street; but, strange to te!!, both grandmother and aunt refused to receive him. However, they re!ated the circumstances to a person of fashion, distant!y related to them, who thought the story So extraordinary, that she mentioned it to our gracious queen. Her majesty, whose Sou! is formed of the most de!icate and refined Sensibility, and whose heart is ever touchingly alive to every call of sympathy, pitied the helpless babe, desired to see him j and nobly had him received, and educated with the young P — — —. Her maj’esty had the goodness to overrate my Small kindness to
the boy, and desired lady -- -- -- -- -- ^ to inquire
what would be the most desirable Service she could render me. The government of Tobago at that time becoming vacant, it was offered for my acceptance; but as my friend, Sir William Y — —, was then governor of this istand, I preferred the lieutenant governancy of Dominica, which I gained. — Pray Sir, Said I, may I ash if the young j gentleman is still with the royal family? — Un
j. doubtedly, Madam, And 1 will with pleasure Vol. II E ' inform
*
r
J
506  .
j inform you of the remaining history of my young
friend.
A Oerman lady, about the court, took a par. ticular fancy to the child, and treated him in eve ry respect with the tenderness of a mother. Between three and four years ago a gentleman died of the name of B— — — an estate Irora fifteen hundred to two thousand a year. No heir appeared; and this lady had the generosity to stand forth the friend of the young Edward. He being of the same name with the deceased, a distant relationship was traced; and through the assiduity and liberality of the before mentioned lady he has gained the fortune, and is now at the universtty pursuing his studies. His amiab!e be nefaftress, anxious to be near him, has taken a house in his neighbourhood j and, it is imagined, at her death will !eave him al! she is poffessed of. Here he ceased.' i.returned the gentleman many acknowledgments for his interesting narrative, ancl could not help exc!aiming,
Who, Providence, .(hall trace thy Secret steps,
Measure thy counsel, or direct thy plans? —
However extraordinary and improbable this Story may appear, my dear Cecilia, yet it is an undoubted fast;; parties are now living, and the veracity of the governor unquestionable.
I could not avoid shedding f tear when I reflected what must have been the Sufferings of the dying parent, when he considered he was leaving his little Smiling companion defenceless, and exposed to all the miseries attending poverty. No
wonder that, upon So agonising an occasion, the
Soul
  ii.
. was permitted to Unger a short time longer on earth, to demand the protection of a friend for the helpless innocent. 1 shall ever love the generous S.....•■■■, for his humanity to the unhoused
Edward. How few would, upon So Scanty an income, have thought of burdened themselves with an unfriended babe! You see, my dear, its own grandmother and aunt refused their Succour:
therefore how much more noble was it in S.,
to decare he would foster the young plant, and preserve it from the chuiing blasts of a crue! and mercenary word I Our amiable Sovereign too! she Selt the force of materna! fee!ings, and kindly tranfp!anted the beauteous flower into a richer soil, there to flourish in a parterre of the sweetest blostoms.
O! my friend, do not the above circumstances show the hand ol an all ruling Providence? How dare presumptuous man to doubt the existence of a Deity? Does not the firmament, the fun, the stars, all declare the workings of a hand Divine '? Can these be the eflfeft of chance? Impoffibie. Then how can vain mortals be so blind to such convincing truths? But let us, my valued friend, return the Almighty thanks, that we, nor none we esteem, are among the numbers of those wretched beings whose hearts are bar’d to conviction j and in this Sweet consolation I Subscribe myself your afleftionate friend,
Laura Montague.
P. S. My charming husband, though unknown to you, destres I will bespeak him a place in your ' esteem.
E 2 LETS

'!
! ]
I y
1. ■ 105 ’ Laura and au<3ustu$
>
I t
t
%
LETTER XXIII

- lardtm^
i
jyllss BYNG TO MRS. MONTAGUE.
Long my Laura, may your tender union last,
And no dull care your blooming pleasures blast;
But every day may you in Montague find
New charms unfolding both in form and mind! '
*
ra Y your father relentingly confess the parent,
and with extended arms receive th
^ >»
lovely pair. Ah, my dear, what were my emo' tions on reading your first epistle!, I perused, anc re perused the letter j I could scarce believe tk evidence of my own 'eyes. I trembled at th heavy clouds which my imagination formed, ai gathering round your defenceless head. What! cried I, my friend, the young, the tender, tk timid Laura Levifon, turned an eloper j quit her father’s house by night; trust herself with an al -- most entire stranger j fusfer herself to be conveyed on board a vestel by two gentlemen, with no other Security for their honourable behaviour but a yague promise 1 Ah! ray Sweet friend, what at ' that moment was the sttuation of my mind! 1 dreaded to open your other epistles, lest thej should confirm what my coward heart foreboded. At last I mustered up courage to break the Seals!
and, with inexpressible delight, read your hkf
riv2'
I
 . 103
rival in the land of matrimony. From what a dangerous precipice has rhy inestimable friend. escaped! Few, 1 apprehend, are the young meh “of the present age, who would have acted with that degree of delicacy arid honour which your amiable Augustus has done'. The generality would have taken every advantage 6f your partiality in their favour, and added immortal scandal to your name. They would have brought the ver ry step you' had taken; ' out of your ungoverned afleftion to them, as an accusation against you. Few are the men, ' whose esteem would not have been forfeited by such a conduct. How many of our sex are now living examples of the perfidy of man! Let us look round us, and behold with a pitying eye the miserable condition to which many a' fond believing maid is reduced; In Short, I must with Horatia say,
/ ... t Were you, ye fair, but cautious whom ye trust,
Did you but think'how fddomfools are So many of your sex would not in vain Gf broken vows, and faithless men complain.
But pardon, my sweet fricndj these reflections, as they proceed from a heart whose anxiety on your account, is not to be exprested.
Tell your charming husband, as you asfefti onately style him, that his tenderness for the Sister of my heart, exclusive of his own persona! merit, will ever Secure him a place in my warmest esteem. Inform your valued friend, Mr Worthy, that I revere, I love his noble, his generous Sympathy j and that if he has any design to take unto himself a helpmate, Cecilia Byng is in his option.
E 3 Justly
x04 Laura anb Augustus.
Justly may you style him a god like man; hij Sou!, indeed, aspires above the vu!gar flight of low mortality. I look upon him as a being Sent to save my dearest friend from misery. Yes, my dear, without his assistance and protection, you could not have trusted yourself with Montague. would you not, ere this, have been Sacrificed to that villain Bofwel!? By the bye, my !ove, what a heart must that wretch postcfs, when the pleadings of my gentle friend produced insult and ridi cule, instead of pity I But, however, my dear Mrs. Montague, notwithstanding you are married, and. under the protection of your husband, let me entreat you to be guarded against any vile attempt he may hereafter try to execute.
A man postessed of such callostty of soul is capable of any undertaking, be it ever sh hazardous. I therefore once more imp!ore you to be aware of any nets he may spread to ensnare you; and with fervent prayers for your prosperity, and encreasing happiness, fubscribe myself, your very asfeftionate friend,
f
f
scecilia Byng.
\
N
«
LET.
«
ct
 ; 105
L ET T E R XXHL
FROM THE SAME TO THE sa^mej
TERMIN ED that the Sheet of paper which contained the congratulations of Cecilia to her Laura, ' should breathe nothing bud peaee and’tranquillityy I deferred informing you of a circumstance, ’ which gives me' the most heart felf uneasiness. My father, whose unfortunate attachment to play had greatly encumbered his estate, has, by the united interest of himself and friends, prucured a lucrative and honourable appointment in one of the East-india Settlements: to which plabe my duty, as well as my affection, obliges me to accompany him; For can I, Laura, Sacifice too muchy to lb indulgent a parent, whose tender care and paterna! affection have amply aipp!ied the loss of a mother, whom the icy hand of death Snatched away, » ere I was fenfib!e of her worth? Nay, my dear, for whom does this incomparabie parent, at his advanced' time of !ife, take so long, so hazardous a voyage. Is it not to reinstate his darling Cecilia in her birthright T And sha!! she then, re ftise to be the Solace, the prop of his dec!ining' years, and by an unwillingncfs to share the fatigues of a tedious and dangerous passage, with
E 4 a para
io  .
a parasttica! hand, strike a thorn in his generotij breast? Heaven forbid! that thy friend Should prove so great a monster! No j gladly, my fa there, will thy dutious, thy aflfeftionate daughter follow you, through the painful, the toilsome journey of life. O! Laura, could I but once more behold you before I bid adieu to this enchanting iste, and on thy tender bosom shed the warm tear of friendship, and hear thy Sympathetic Sighj 1 could, methinks, with more composure' ' my native country. But that, alas! is a happiness that is denied me, the mountainous Sea already divide us. Ah! my friend, what a fate is ours! But as Some alleviation, let me entreat you will Send, by every opportunity which offers, a kind of journal of your life, as I design of mine. And remember, Laura, I bespeak the honour of standing sponsor to your first blooming cherub
• week I embark for madrass: but when I shall re’ embark for England, Heaven only knows. I shall bid my sweet friend adieu, with wishing aiontague’s.tender love, and indulgent care, may bless her amiable virtues.
■ ^ Cecilia Byng.
^, V • • '
• * ' ♦.
‘ i ■ 1. - ■
A • ' i
f •.. • ‘
■ ' t. ' ’ * ■
*
.... /. ' < : T.
- t ' i •.
• ■ ' '?
V ' LETS

4
Eaura and August vs. 107
9
J
^ \
Lr E T TER XXIV
t
Dominica.
f
V; V ' - > ^ ■
. ^ r! • ■ • •
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS byn'go'
.. ' f. <
AH! my friend, ■ what a fate indeed is ours!
how arc my pleastng expectations dashed to the ground I " and, like the bafeless fabric of a vision, leave not a wreck behind.” Yes, Cecilia, I had fondly flattered myself in a few months to have held the Sister of my heart in the cordial embrace of friendship; and in her soothing conversation found a balm'for the cruel, the unrelenting displeafure of my father. O! Cecilia, what a destiny is mine; to.involve the man, on whom my soul dotes with the most extravagant fondness, in the most dreadful sttuation! You ■ will see by the date of this letter, that I am still at Dominica. Would you believe it? my father ’ afts with a degree of madness. Scarcely to be credited. My beloved husband dare not venture to return io Grenada, lest in his own defence he Should be obliged to lift his arm against the author of his laura’s life. For we are informed, ^ my father never stirs out without his pistols, Sweating vengeance against my Augustus.
1.
E 5: Mr
ro  .
Mr. Worthy, that invaluable friend, purposes returning in a few days, to attempt in person an accommodation. I have written to Mrs. Willis, the governor’s !ady to entreat her kind intercession with ray father, in my behdf j though ray knowledge of her was. but a month antecedent to my departure from Grenada. Yet I trust: the Singularity of my cause will plead my apology. What adds, Cecilia, to the horrors of my Situa: * tion, is, that what I took for an indifposhioti occasioned by griefj I find but too plainly, that ira prudent love has produced a new misfortune that I bear about a living testimony of my alseftion, Ahi!' unhappy babe, thy mother’s anguish foreruns thy Iwrth I throbs of terror were thy first symptoms of existence. To this circumstancc> my love, my father is no stranger, as in my last letters I pleaded the fate of the unborn infant. Ah! my friend, what an inflexibility of temper must he be postcsted of ^ True, I have offended him, and he has a right to punish; but will not penitence turn, aside the thunder bolt of Heaven S and vengeance is the work of the Almighty. Why is it then, that my earthly parent is less relenting than my heavenly one Why. is it that he who is guilty himself in Some cafes, will not forgive guilt, though it is the condition of his ob taihing forgiveness I Merciful Heaven, have mercy on the unmerciful I Let my life, liet the life of that unborn infant expiate my crimes, bwt save, fr^tch my husband from the jaws of destruction O Cecilia, I cannot proceed .* for give this blistered sheet; my tears will not b.c. re llrained. Adieu Heaven bless and preserve yco is the constant prayer of
Laura Montague.
let
 . to,
/
L E T T E R XXV
«
MR MONTAGUE TO MRS. WILLIS.
H O U O H my acquaintance with Mrs. Willis has been but of a late date; yet, as the" goodness of her heart appeared too conspicuous to escape my observation, emboldened by this Sentiment, Madam, I t&ke up my" pen to implore your humane intercession with my father, - in favour of my beloved imbntague, myself, and unborn babe. O iny dear Madam, fbeseech you; usc all the energy an<i‘e!6quchce you are so nluch mistress'of in'our bieha!f; touch his pride, knock at nature in his heart j do not Suffer him to triumph in his obduracy. interesl the Governor in my cause;; ^ him but plead for myshushand’s unmolested return to his regiment: he cannot much longer remain absent j he has already been away eight months j and I tremble icsl my father’s violence should’oblige my amiable Augustus to dfawshis fwrordj foteither fall, and lam'doomed to perpetual misery. Great God! what a state is mine 1 Why will he, .who ought by naturc'to be a friend a guardian: '
• t
o
no  .
dlan over mjrhappiness, be my bitterest enemy; and poison all my promised joys! Is not this conduct enough to alienate the aflfeftions of the tenderest husband?? happy is it for me, that in the midst of my fasher’s unremitting rage, my adored Montague, shy huishahcl, ’ my all of bliss, continues the same kind aflfeftionate creature, and if possible more tender than ever. I depend much, my dear Madam, on your humanity to plead for me, and blush at having said so much to one, whose own goodness of heart will urge her to do all in her power to save an unfortunate woman from the most poignant wretched ness; and be assured, ray worthy Mrs, Willis, I shall ever gratefully acknowledge your goodness to the unfortunate
»
* ^ *
Laura Montague.
■ r ‘ ■
p
: '. -, f
^ 2 i .■ * •
t
''' ■, 0 ' I
t
■ : I
I
f
V
:, i ■ •
/) m
, LET.
"- I
 . hi
LETTER XXVI
Grenada.
MRS. WILLIS Td MRS. MONTAGUE.
4
.W
Le T these Sew lines, my dear Mrs. Montague,, convey in Some degree peace to your distressed mind. Mr. Montague, my dear Madam, I with pleasure inform you, may with Safety return to this istand,. as through the governor’s persuastons he has gained, a promise from your father not to molest himi
I am Sorry to Say, your father still continues deaf ho all our entreaties in behalf of a reconciliation; but, I hope, time will! abate the violence f his displeafure, and Soften his heart to the Supplications of his only child. Do not despair, my dear Madam, but preserve your Spirits for the Sake of the little innocent, and trust your cause to the mercy of an all wise Providence j and in wishing you a happy moment, subscribe myself your stn cere friend and well wisher,
t
Mary Willis.
L E .DR

 .
/
L E T T E R xxvm
Dmlhlttk,
JENNY moftgan TO MISS BTNG
Honoured Madamy
T T is with infinite pleasure, that I have it in my power to inforih you that my dear Lady was a fortnight ago Safely delivered of a lovely girl; the mother and child arc both aswell as we coulh yrish. Mrs. Montague would hersek have informed you of her Safety; but her husband, ever apprehensive for his laura’s health, .has laid strist injunctions on; us all, not to Suffer pen; ink, or paper to come within her fight} and desired ine to inform you of the happy event: as to himself, he scarce ever quits her fide,, but watches over her with the most tender anxiety. Could you but behold"him,, my dear Madam,, adminif fering nourishment to Her,, everything he tafies to see whether it is palatabh, or whether too hot, or too cold, before he presents if to her; - and' She with the sweet Smile of reciprocal aflfeftion receives it from her adoring Hushand.’ The exalted, the amiable Mr. Worthy! 'to see with what •' looks, of paternal aflfeftion he beholds the lovely
pair
N
Laura aiid Augustus. nj
pair! The little babe, whom he fondly calls his grandchild, he carcstes with Such tenderness, that it frequently draws the unwilling tear from my lovely mislrefs’s eyes. But it is now time to administer some refreshment to my dear Lady $
I must therefore quit my pen for the present, but will on my return resume it.
IN CONTINUATION.
O M A D A M, what a beautiful Scene have I just been witness to 1 permit me to give you a Sketch. Mrs. Montague was Seated in a large chair of white dimity fringe, herself, as you may fup pose, in Spotlefs white; the Smiling angel in her arms, receiving that norishment which providence ordained it; she had hold of one of its little hands, which she kisted with the greatest marks of maternal tenderness. The delighted husband hanging on the back of her chair, seemed to behold them with a kind of ecstatic delight } the tenderest love and asfeftion teemed in his expressive eye. At a small distance Sat the good Mr. Worthy : a book was lying upon the table, while his head reclined upon hii& band; as his ' arm rested on the table, his eyes were fixed on the lovely group, and the most benevolent complacency Sat on his venerable eounrtcnance. O! my God f thought I, would that Mr. levison was at this momet in ray Situation! he Surely could not withstand the powerful voice of nature. O! miss Byng, happy is it for my dear mistress, that she has met with So generous u friend as Mr, Worthy : but, indeed, she deserves, if ever woman
114  .
man did, to meet with humanity for her heart and hand were ever open to the Soirrows of ano there. You, Madam, no doubt, have heard my unfortunate story; what would have been my fate, if Providence had not Sent Such an angel to my relief! I must ere now have sunk with wretched ness and want into the stlerit grave.
But I will not detain you longer than to inform you the instant my mistr’ess is able to bear the voyage, we return to Grenadaj and are to take up our residence at bounty hall, theshospita* ble mansion of the noble Mr. Worthy, from ■ whence Mrs. Montague will wifite to you j in the mean tirhe,. 1 have the. honour to fubscribe my self r — — - \
Madam,
Your most obedient'
• • humble Servant,
i ^ f > H " t 1 * ' : i. '
# - I ■ y 4 A • - •. I;. i A.. '
'- * Jennv Morgan;
* t
b ■ I ■. ' A' i C
«
f
/ f • '
»
... -, » i • • •
> *
%
L E T
r
!
 . 115
LETTER XXVIII
\
bounty half Grenada.
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MIS. BTNG <
I T H gratitude to the Supreme, my dear ’ * est friend I am once more enabled to take up ' my pen My faithful Jenny tells me, she has already informed you of the birth of my little girl: the dear little moppet was baptised the day preceding our departure from Dominica j my invaluable friend Worthy, and your Ladyship, were its Sponfors j the loved name of Cecilia was bestowed upon the little stranger. And, O! may she with that name inherit the virtues and amiable qualities of my friend! Gratitude seems already to postefs her heart, as by her innocent smiles she appears willing to repay me the pain I have endured ^ for her Sake. My Montague too, could you but behold him, with his little daughter in his arms, fondly preshng it to his amiable heart, and gazing with, all the marks of fatherly aflfeftion, depicted in his expressive countenance on its little delicate features j how would you adore him! It would also divert you to hear us dispute about the little urchin j my husband fwhat an uncouth sound I)
■will must she greatly rescmbles me: while I am
persuaded
ij6  .’
persuaded its every feature bears the greateff Similitude to those of my beloved Augustus; indeed, Setting aside the partiality of a fond mother,, she promises to be very handsome.
I make an excellent nurfe’ to the dear little creature, and am riot a little proud of being able ta go through So delightful a talk. 1 suppose many people would b.c. quite shocked at my old fashioned sentiments j but you, my dear! who know what strange particular ideas I have, will not at all be surprised at it. I southeast e, from my window, the friendly Worthy taking my little marmoset in his arms j he brings it this way; you would be charmed, my’dear,, to'fee what an admirable nurse he makes; he enters my chamber. Laura, .- my child, I think it is necessarj that you and my pretty grandchild here should go and return your thanks to mrsi Willis,, for her kind interceshon with' your father,, and to request the continuance of Her friendship j have you any objection to go fehisafteraoon? None in the lead, my dear Sir j I look upon it as a duty which I owe her. So' you see, - my amiable friend, I mud quit my pen for the present, to prepare myself and the. sweet babe for this visit.
IN CONTINUATION
G R E A T God! Cecilia, what a flurry have I been thrown into 1 but I will lead you on m« thodically. I left off informing, you of my de fing of paying my compliments at the govern ment house; accordingly, at a proper hour, attended by my husband, Mr. Worthy, and iny little shr!,. Set. out for mcivil house : we were received
 . 117
celved with great friendship, nay, affection. I flattered myself to enjoy a mosl delightful afternoon. Mrs. Willis chid me for not coming, and taking a family dinner with her, instead of using the formality of a tea visit. The feast of reason and the flow of souls was Substituted in the place of the instpid card table; Mr. Worthy and the Governor were playing backgammon j my dear Mon,, was of our party, 1 had my little girl at my bosom nourishing, when the door opened, and in entered Mr. Boswell - started, the child dropped into my lap; I fell back into my chair, my eyes closed j my husband and Mr. Worthy both shw to my assistance;; Augustus gently took my hand, and in the most tender manner implored me to Speak. I was incapable j but, yielding to tears, found relief. O! Montague, was all I could articulate; I laid my head on his bosom, as if fensible of Safety while resting there. The good Worthy took my other hand: My dear Mrs. Montague, why do you alarm yourself thus! Is not your beloved Augustus with you! Am I not here! is not Worthy your friend your father, and shall any one insult you with impunity t Look up, dear Laura, Mr. Boswell is retired into another room, and will not return but by your permission. — I raised my head. — O! Mrs. Willis, my husband, my friend, my more than father, pardon my weakness!! the presence of that wretch recalled a thousand painful circumstances to my memory. But let him enter, I will try to compose myself; and I drank a draught of hartshorn and water from the hands of my Augustus. In a few moments boswell returned, accompanied hythe governor. I trembled, — I leaned against the chair, he advanced to
me.
Ii8 Laura ad augustusv
me. I am greatly mortified, my deaf Madam, that my presence should prove So hateful to you; permit my Sincere penitence'for my past conduct to plead my pardon in your gentle bosom!! Montague, be my advocate with’ your lovely Laura j she will not resuse your request. I am Sufficiently punished with the loss of So inestimable a jewel, do not add to my disappointment by your aversion. My Sweet love, ” cried my Augustus, listen to the dictates of your good nature j Speak to Mr. Bofwellyour loss, as he justly Says, is a Sufficient punishment.” I gave him my hand rise, Sir, ” (for he had thrown himself at my feet) : " I freely forgive you.” He took my hand, and respeftfuliy kisted it j he bestowed many caresfes on my dear babe. But not “withstanding all that my reason could' urge to compose my mind j yet was I So restless at being in his company, that, notwithstanding his extreme politeness to my dear Montague, which I thought rather bordered upon hypocrisy, that I could not be Satisfied till I had requested the indulgent Mr. Worthy to shorten his visit. I apologised to the friendly Mrs. Willis, for ray premature departure, and promised to make amends, by taking an early opportunity of Spending the day with her. Mr. boswell begged to have the honour of placing rhein my hammock j but, to my great joy, the Governor good naturedly came up, saying" " boswell, that privilege belongs to me j permit me, Mrs. Montague I instantly gave my hand to the Genera!, as real!y, my dear, the touch of the ipan is hateful to, me.
On
t
 . iig
On my return home, Mr. Worthy and Augustus • irilifted on my retiring to rest, which in obedience to their wishes I did. But not finding myself inclined to steep, I rose up, and stipping on a rope de chamber, determined to inform you of this disagreeable meeting. But hark I hear a step advancing; I must bid you a goodnight, or I shall receive a lecture.
y ours,
Laura Montague.
\
LETTER XXIX
i
\
Grenada.
«•
BENJAMIN BOSWELL, ES TO
JOHN WILSON.
V
VOU ash me, Wilson, isi have yet gainedasight of montague’s wife Since her return to this istand? In answer to which question, I tell you I have. My trusty fellow Joe acquainted me that Madam destgned taking tea at the government house yesterday afternoon. Ah, thought I, a lucky opportunity, by Jove j my intimacy at that hous’e will warrantmy dropping in, in the evening.
Accord
120
Accordingly at about Seven o’clock, I mounted my trusty rosinante, and sallied forth! On alighting at melville house, without asking any questions of the attendants, whether Master or Mistress was at home, I made the best of my way towards the drawing-room. For, to confess the truth, I was apprehensive that orders might have been issued out, that on this day my worship should not be admitted. I Say, I advanced to the I drawing-room, threw open the door, and made 1 my entrance, without the previous ceremony of I my name being announced; down Sunk Madam I Laura, up started al the good folks. By my soul, you would have imagined the town had been besieged. By Heavens! I never cut sod —. i Silly a figure j Willis requested I would accompa*
i ny him into the next room, ti!i Mrs. Montague
had recovered from her surprise. At !ength I was recalled from my banishment. Now, thought I,
i for Some d..... — sentimental Speech. I advanced,
down 1 Sunk on my marrow bones (by the bye, a little the stifsfor want of use) with a devi!ish woebegone countenance, condefeended to dress my j purpose up in gracious words. Such as might Softly stea! upon her mind. But d — • Sentiment, I kisted her lily fair hand, and received her gracious pardon.
But now. Jack, tojet you a little into my future plan of operations, for be revenged of her I! will, by Heavens 1 or perish in the attempt. You must know, that that fond fool her husband will in a few months be ordered with others of his brother blades over the country, to view a place where they have thoughts of building a fortifica i tion. Now, as good look will have it, the turtle
 . lai
tk cannot poshbly accompany her mate, as there ris no road, and they will be obliged to travel great part on foot, over hills, through woods, and wade rivers. In this period I design carrying off the wanderer’s deary; and when once. Jack,
1 have her in my posteffion, if I do not Severely punish her haughty, disdainfu! conduct, her rejection of me, for thak pale faced puppy her husband" " ” as Lothario says, the Shame _
mean to brand his name with, rest: on " mine.”
Old Levifon sails next week for eng!and, pur pose!y to avoid the chance of hearing or Seeing anything of his daughter. And I know so well the flintinefs of his nature, that i’!l be ourfed if he ever receive her into favour. It is wonderful, how that dog Montague and his pretty dove have wheedled that old fellow Worthy j he is one of your fentimentals, and I’!! be d if they do
not Sentiment the don out of every stxpence he is worth, and he is a warm rogue. You know he and his coustn Tom ro!!ey have had a devilish. quarrel, Sono hopes you may see for our old friend.
But, Jack, what the deuce postessed me to write such a cursed long letter? Woman! you doubtless wi!i cry. West, be it So, and not another word from thine —
Benjamin Boswell, '
LET
122  .
LETTER XXX
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
OC E C IL I AI he is gone, my incensed father has quitted this island, left me without one parenta! embrace, one tender !oolc. O! my God! can nature be so extinguished in his breast, that not one spark remains to p!ead my cause! Sure, the !etters I have written him, would have Softened a heart of flint! would one not think that tigers had nursed him in their desart shade! O! my friend, he forgets that it was love, and his own tyranny, that wrought my disobedience: for not all the eloquence of my beloved Augustus should have prompted me to forget that duty which as a parent I owed him j had he not cruelly destgned compelling me by force to marry the man whom my soul detested! He urged a right to tyrannise over my heart, which right surely nature never gave. Could he imagine me so weak of mind, that I would patiently Submit 'to be !ed a victim to the Sacred altar, and in the presence of the Supreme violate the Heavenly institution S No, my fou! disdained such tyranny j and 1 resolved to give to merit that, I to, force refused. Why was I endued with reason?? it only to fulfil the harsh commands of his capricious difposttion? No, no, my right I know, and resoived to follow those dictates which justice
war
/
and Augustus. 123
ranted. I weighed what Heaven destgned, and formed by her rules my freeborn mind..
1 am Senstble, my friend, that the generality of the word, whose hearts never set the tender sympathy of !ove, will condemn my conduct. The low minded part of mankind imagine, that a direst Submission is to be paid to a parent’s every will. But if my conduct is rightly weighed it will be found that a compliance would have more deserved blame, thanpraisej for those who would style such an obedience virtue, would but profane her name. Yes, my Cecilia, is a marriage, wherein the hearts are at variance, any better than a legal prostitution j and can that be called t'irtue? Impossible. Well then, my dear Cecilia, as my own heart acquits me, I will confolc myself with these lines :
Virtue, rejoice, tho’ Heaven may frown awhile,
That frown is but the earnest of a Smile;
One day of tears presages years of joy,
missortunes only mend us, not destroy!
Perhaps my dear father, when he comes to reflect M'hat a tender asseftionate husband my beloved Montague makes his Laura, will relent; and once more receive me to the bosom of parental love. I will close this letter by humbly Supplicating the all gracious Providence to preserve him and my dear mother j and to Swell with arosperous winds his flying Sails, andj in the icart reviving hope of once more being admitted to their dear presence, fubferibe myself your truly aseftionate friend, ...
Laura Montague.
Vol. II F LET
✓
. ' 124  .
\
LETTER XXXI
t
BENJAMIN BOSWELL, ESQ. TO JOHN WILSON.
\
* F
H E lucky moment, my honest fel!ow, is * arrived, • — I send this off express— — everything for my reception at Guava; I Shall be down by Saturday night. Now, love and fortune assistmej Jack, Laura sha!! yet be mine; that haughty beauty shall bow Submiffive before me. By Heavens, I am half wild with joy! — Montague Sets out on Thursday morning on his reconnoitring plan, leaves his little divinity to the protection of that old dotard Worthy. Fly Swift, ye tardy minutes; revenge. Sweet revenge, how dot bend to thy shrine 1
Bjr my fou! wilson, I have !aid the trap too we!!, to doubt of success j Joe, with three aether staves, are to shulk about bounty ha!!, till they see the lonely dove wandering about, which She constantly does in the cool of the day j they are then to rush out upon their trembling prey, and convey her safe to an adjoining wood, where the happy, thrice happy Boswell, waits her reception.
Farewell, Jack j enyy the felicity of thy — —
♦
Benjamin Boswell.
L E T
\
/
and Augustus. 125
I
LETTER XXXII
MRS, MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
WHEN clouds of troubled thoughts invade my minily Thy c9nquering image there dear youth, I find;
Still you prevail, all potent, in my breast,
Now more than ever of my soul postefsm.
To thee 1 talk, tho’ absent, and thy name Its best loved talk my tongue delights to frame;
Thou my companion, sweet descends the nighjt;
Without thee rises no returning light
My amiable Montague, my dear Cecilia, yesterday morning quitted his asseftionate Laura for r a week j he was obliged to accompany some brother officers, to view a piece of ground on the opposite fide of this istand : and how I shall support this cruel absence, I cannot tell. My kind, my tender friend Worthy has been planning out little parties to amuse me during this separation.
But alas, my dear, what pleasure can I receive, while the dear tenant of my breast is distant? Nothing can fill up the vacuum, the void will llill remain j my only employments will be to tread the paths his foot steps trod, to join with my gc ny'^ous Worthy in enumerating his numberless virtues, and to trace in the Sweet features of my darling girl the image of her loved father. My little angel now lies wrapped in the arms of downy Sleep, Sweet innocent J Cecilia, I will take a ten * kiss of my little blooming cherub, and then fry to dilfipate my thoughts by a ramble.
F 2 My
%
/
f"26  .
My friend, I know not how it is, I feel a strange dejection j but it is owing, I suppose, to this being my first separation from my mota. gue: adieu j heaven bless you.
Laura Montague.
/.
LETTER XXXIII
%
\
Bounty hall.
JENNY MORGAN TO LIEUTENANT
MONTAGUE.
■ Honoured Sir,
■ ^
Tj' O R God Sake I as Soon as this reaches your hands. Set off with all possible expedition: I send this by an express, who has orders not to rest night nor day, till he finds you. O Sir, prepare your mind for the worst. excuse hasle.
Your faithful
and devoted servant
■ Morgan.
f
\
^ LET
$
 . 127
LETTER XXXIV
Mark.
\
JENNY MORGAN TO MIS BYNC.
Honoured Madam.
Ayr Y dear lady, being so much indisposed by a late unfortunate event, as to be rendered incapable of writing j has pommanded me to inform you of the dreadful particulars.
My mistress, the evening after my master’s departure, accompanied by Mr. Worthy, went out to take a little walk. It seems they had not proceeded Sar, before four armed Negroes rushed out, from behind a hedge, and seized hold of my miftress: the distrafted Mr. Worthy attempted to rescue her : a Scuffle ensued, in which her generous proteftor fell. Yes, miss Byng, the ^ great, the noble Mr. Worthy received from the arm of a base astassin, a stroke which pierced his generous heart! he reeled! he fell! he groaned t and expired. To this heartrending Scene, my dear lady was witness: she Screamed! tore her hair! and in that frantic state was carried off by the vile crew.
In the evening the unfortunate body of the excellent Mr. Worthy was found by Some staves
F 3 pasting
128  .
pashng by j they conveyed it home. My dear mistress was nowhere to be found : half diftras. edi instantly sent an express oflf to Mr. Montague. He came. But O I Madam, what words can paint his agony? His friend murdered, cruelly murdered! The wife of his bosom inhumanij torn from his arms j he raved! he wept over his ■ little babe! At last his Suspicions fell on the vile Boswell! he flew to his Sword, and putting his pistols in his pocket mounted his horse, in a Hate of the most horrid frenzy.
Two days after his departure, as I was littin? lamenting over the sweet little Cecilia, my Mistress entered, attended by an old Negroe wench, I started and Screamed j 1 had nearly let the in sant drop Poor Mrs. Montague flew to her child j but here description fails. My dear Mistress, when she found my poor Master was gone to seek her at that villain bofwell’s, fainted, anti has stnee been exceeding weak. Mr. Montague is not yet returned j and, indeed, I know not where to direst a mestenger to him.
We are at present at the house of Madam Dc Blondeau, a friend of my dear lady’s. As the exalted Mr. vsorthy died intestate, his estate fell to a coustn, a Mr Rowley, wsho immediately on the unfortunate accident came down to take pof feshon. H is lamented body was luckily interred, before Mrs. montague’s return j who poor lady! upbraids herself, as the .cause of his untimely death. — O 1 dear Madam, never to be Sure was such a Scene of horror and confuston! But ought we not, Miss Byng, to return thanks to Almighty God, that my amiable lady has escaped uninjur* CD? O! what a monster of iniquity is that Kos
wdl 1
 . 12,
\
well! for, too true, it was he who perpetrated this vile aft! My Mistress says, that when they dragged her from the bloody spot, she was carried into a wood, where the abominable Boswell met her j happily, she never lost her senses. She tvas conducted to a place called Guava, where it. seems he has an estate j that he used every means to compel her to a compliance with his bale desires j that for two days she reinained in this melancholy state, continually insuited with his vile passion. He told her, reststance was vain, that She was then in his power, and yield she must, or dread the consequences.
Poor Mrs. Montague, terrified to death at this threat, on her knees, with up lifted hands, and Slrcaming eyes, implored his mercy j ‘S at least, ” Said She, " permit me to have one day to myself.” This request the villain granted j she instantly retired to the apartment allotted her, fastened the door, and humbly supplicated the astistance of Providence: her prayer was heard. At night, as She Sat ruminating on her deplorable Situation, a door opened j which had before escaped her observation, being hid by the bed: an old negroe wench entered, desired her to follow without Speaking at first she hesitated j bufreflefting that no circumstances could well be worse than those Ihe already was in, complied. The old woman, conducted her into a little hut by the fide of a river, shaded with trees. She then informed her, that she had originally belonged to Mr. Levifon, and hearing a report that the lady whom Mr. boswell kept confined, was that gentleman’s daughter. She determined to Save her if poflliblc from destruction. She accordingly made interest
F 4 with
130  .
with her daughter, whose husband was an attendant in the house, to get her admitted to that door j she Succeeded, and my dear lady was happily rescued from the villain’s arts. Boswell, it Seems, raved like a bedlamite, when he found vshe was flown j every place was searched to no purpose. She was under the necessity of remaining a whole day in her concealment j and at lall was obliged to travel by night. She has hand somely rewarded the faithful stave, and is now rather more composed, as hoping Mr. Montague may not meet with the detested boswell, as the most dreadful consequences are to be apprehended from Such an encounter. I must now beg ~ leave to asture you, my dear young lady, how much
/
I am
Your most obedient humble Servant,
* N
Jenny Morgan.
N
A
t
ted
Lacka and Aogustds. 131
LETTER XXXV
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
/
0! miss Byng, what misery attends this un* lortunate pair! My poor dear Mistress— — — —, Madam, Such a Scene. — — — But you shall hear. Taft: night as my dear lady was weeping over a, Small miniature of my unfortunate master, a servant entered, and" informed her, a Sailor wished' to Speak with her: she accordingly desired him to be admitted. On entering, he flew to her; caught her in his arras: she Screamed and struggled. — " Ah 1 “cried he, can this disguife hide me froimthe prying eye of love ?” — ** My Montague !” cried' she, faintly j and sunk into his arms. Her eyes closed, and her fenses Sorfook her. — — Oh! (Said the distrafted husband) I am to blame to take thee thus unprepared. Oh! come again j it is thy Augustus fommonses thee to life and love. Thy lo^'^ed, ever loving husband callsthy' Montague Speaks.” — — My husband, alas! where have 1 been? Why do you keep him from me? Indeed 1 am unpolluted. F knew his voice j my life, upon the wing, heard the Soft lure; it calls me back again. O'! my much loved husband j my Montague j' tny dearest love j do i hold you fasi never to part
F 5. again?
1
I
/
/
j32  .
again? O I there is more than life itself in dy. ing here I Death would be welcome in these dear arms.”
O I my life, my love (cried the enraptured husband) !ive ever in these arms I But, Oh, Laura, my !oved, my adored wife, 1 have a dread fu! tale to unfold. — " Ah, my Montague, what means this disguise?? I fear. O! tell me all, and ease my distrafted mind. boswell; is it not? But are you not hurt? My every thought confounds me.” — " No, my best love, I am not hurt, (replied my master) but let ray arrival be kept Secret j I will! tomorrow tell you all j at present I stand in need of rest. But can’t I see my little angel? Where is my child? 1 brought his blooming daughter to himj who, recollecting her father, stretched forth her little arms to welcome him. The tender parent Snatched it to his breast, and lavished a thousand fond endearments on the Smiling cherub. But I will now respeftfully take my leave, as I doubt not my dear mistress wi!! herself in a few days take up her pen. I must request you will believe me to be with unfeigned respeft,
My dear Madam,
Your most obedient humble Servant,
/
Jenny Morgan.
LET
/
/
and Augustus. 133
LETTER XXXVI
*
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG
Sure ’tis some hideous dream — *
Some horrid fantacy! that haunts my soul *
With images of woe I O that it were ^ *
A transient fantasy!! well niy heart Feels her misfortunes — feels the dreadful truth.
That thy laura’s loll to peace and happiness
^ what will become of me 1 Alas, ^ my beloved Augustus is a wretched exile. 0, my friend, pity thy miserable Laura, my unhappy husband has killed that villain Bolfwell. Do I live to write it? My Montague become a murderer! O, heavens, that he had fallen by any other hand! Great God, Support me j for the Sake of the dear partner of my soul, and helpless babe.
O, my friend, if I give way to thought, I Shall run distrafted. Alas, where will our Sorrow end? My much loved husband is obliged to quit these constant arms. In disguise he is fled to Martinico, where myself, my poor innocent, and faithful Jenny, are to follow with all possible expedition. Do you not behold the misery that ivii attend this fatal adventure? The friends of the detested boswell will pursue him. O, thou loved shade of my murdered Worthy, look down from thy blessed abode, with pitying eyes, upon thy defenceless children. Alas, Cecilia, I rave.
But
»
j34  .
But I would^f possible, pray, that you, my !ove, may never experience the Sorrows of thy poor Laura. Indeed, my misery is Such, that would draw, as Milton says, " iron tears from pluto’s cheek.”
/
Farewell. May heaven protest you, and grant you more peace than has fallen to the lot of
Laura Montagus.
LETTER XXXVII
♦
Martinico.
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
/
<
T Snatch my pen, my tender friend, to inform you I reached this place in Safety, and found ray beloved husband better than I could expect. Next week we embark for havre de gras in a ' French vestel, and from thence proceed for England. My dear Augustus destgns changing his name : his Scheme is to get into Some merchant’s house, till he can hear of Something more de sirab!e. The faithful Jenny inststs upon sharing our fate. She says, she thanks God she can work well at her needle: and this, my dear Madam, she cries, will be Some little assistance. 0>
my
 . 135
my Cecilia, amidst all my miseries, what a happy circumstance it is, that I possess Such a treasure! Her education and Sentiments place her above the level of a servant: she is my friend, my Sister, my companion. But adieu j I cannot for any !ength of time !eave my dear Montague, he needs all my comfort to support his Spirits.
Yours,
Laura Montague.
\
The Editor must here beg leg leave to Inform the gentle Reader, as through the ambiguity of the unhappy Mrs. montague’s expreshons to her friend, he or she may be led to imagine that her husband had basely assaffinated Mr. boswell j we must therefore in vindication of that gentleman’s character, entreat permission to lay before cur readers the particulars of the unlucky rencounter.
The reader may remember, that Mr. Montague, Sufpefting Boswell' to have been the perpetrator of the diabolical scheme praftised against his wife. Snatched up his Sword and pistols, and hurried away. The unfortunate gentleman directed his course towards Guava, where he knew bos well’s estates lay.. In his road, chance threw the monster in his path, attended by his vile accomplice wiison. Montague galloped up to him ** (cried the enraged husband dismount,
and
136  .
and defend thy cursed life. Here are a brace of pistols j take your choice. I do not ask you after my unfortunate Laura, as I know thee base enough to deny fasts, though clear as yon brilliant fun.”
As cowardice Is ever an attendant upon villain ous actions, the reader will not be surprised to hear that So great a wretch should tremble at the determined air of the noble youth.
** Mr. Montague (cried the horrid monster with quivering lips) 1 hate fighting : your wife is Safe, and as pure as the unborn babe .for me; so pray let that content you.” — — " No, by G — ‘d, (cried the distrafted husband) I will receive immediate satisfaction for the insult you have offered to my honour. If my wife is uninjshred, no thanks to the cowards’ And with his whip he held in his hand, he struck him over the head. Upon this the villain quitted his horse, and, turning^to Wilson, cried, — " Remember, if I fall, jacc you pursue my murderer j I fight but in my own defence.” They took their ground, and Montague. desired Bofwel! to fire j he did, but with so trembling a hand, that the ball just grazed our hero’s hat. The injured hushand’s aim was more certain j the bal! entered the viliain’s breasl; he fel and, grasping the wound, with a weak voice exc!aimed, — » " Montague, you have conquered in arms as we!! as love j and the onlj^ pang I feel in dying is, that the flight of your wife prevented me from — — Here his strength fai!ing, he turned his dying eyes on wilson, who Supported him, and faintly crying, — Basely murdered, expired. Mr. Montague, thinking he had no time to lose, mounted his horse, and galloped
 . 137
loped with all Speed till he reached a friend’s house j and there learning that his Laura was Safely lodged at Madame de blondou’s at Mark, he exchanged his uniform for that of a sailor’s habit, and visited his Wife as has already been re!ated by Jenny.
•»
LETTER XXXVIII
London,
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
ALAS! my !ove, that mournfu! themes should for ever emp!oy my pen! that a Sad dctai! of woe must be the only entertainment I can send you! But you desired, Cecilia, that I would write a kind of journal of my life j I will obey, however painful j ’tis friendship calls upon me to repeat my griefs.
Surely the most dismal Scenes have presented themselves to my view, that ever mortal Saw. — O! my friend, I have scarce yet recovered my wonted strength, indeed, I fear it will never more be reestablished.
By this letter you will find I am once more a resident in England. We sailed from Martinico,. on the fifteenth of September j the wind was
in
'«
r
r *.,
138  .
in our favour, till the nineteenth, at half an hour past: e!even, the vesse! was struck with !ightning, which beat down most of the persons on board: fevera! of the sai!ors were so much hurt, that they hardy had strength enough to rise, but no lives were lost. O 1 my dear Cecilia, what a sttuation. ' was this for thy poor Laura! My beloved Montague knelt by my stde, and endeavoured to sup port my stnking Srame j my litt!e babe terrified clung round my neck, and pierced the air with her cries j while the Saithful Jenny was oa her knees. Supplicating the mercies of the Omnipotent. As Soon as they were able to discover one another, through the Surrounding cloud, the captain gave orders to Search over the vestel; no traces of stre could be found in any part of it: but we had Scarcely tiine to’ recover ourselves, before a Sulphureous Smell presaged what we had to apprehend. A black Smoke came up the hold of the ship,, and increased vistbly j there was an immediate cry for water, and a great ciuantity was poured down : the smoke st'iil increastng, the captain caused the rum to be thrown over board as fast as postble. Happily I never lost my fenses, but fortified my mind with the pleastng idea, chat tho’ the greatest agonies should terminate my existence, yet I should share the fate of my'amiable Augustus, and that my darling infant would not be left defenceless on the bleak world, but happily breathe her last, with her ill-fated uarents. I stncerely forgave my father all the wretchedness he had occastoned me; I offered up a prayer for his peace and happiness with that of my dear mother’s: 1 included my tender friend in my petition.. 1 exhorted my beloved husband to
patience,
 . 139
patience, who ceased not upbraiding himself as the cause of all my fusterings. At this heartrending moment, the captain, descended into the cabin, desired we would instantly save ourselves by following him. We found that he had ordered two boats to be thrown out, which they did with too much haste, and threw themselves almost head.. into them. They instantly Sunk I They opened every place for water to come into the hold j but all esfoits were vain j and the horrors of the last night, added to the dreadful death which presented itself, seemed to add ficrceness to the flames which enclosed us. The fire then reached the long boat, and deprived us of the last resource. The progress of the flames was very rapid j the mainmast fell half burnt, and the whole stern of the velsel was on Sire j the crew and passengers prested forward, there was no time to deliberate j we were to perish in the flames, or throw ourselves in the Sea, with the faint hope of Saving ourselves on Some pieces of the wreck 1 Between twelve and one the flames reached us. The people cried, Save, save yourselves, you are yet in time.” I held my child locked to my breast. Sear gave me strength j my Montague caught me in his arms, and Scrambled from rope to rope j in proportion as we went from the fire, we came nearer the other element. Supporting ourselves on the Sailing masts and rigging, which Served us as a float; the excellent captain had humanely assisted my Saithful Jenny.
As the morning grew lighter, we were able to reckon up five and thirty persons, my little sami !y included. And in this terrible Situation, we continued two whole days, when Providence,
whom '
f.
"/
./
I ».
j 14c lauria And Augustus
1
I whom I did not cease to implore, ^ V as plcased to
! preserve us, to the nurnber of nineteen. Num!
! of the crew perished through fatigue, and
j we who were left had little hopes of palling ano*
I there night. Several of the peopleoost their Sen
I fes, and ashed the captain who should be killed
first,, to Serve for food for the rest. 1 had fortunately some biscuits in my pocket, which, stooping over my child, I unperceived by any but my
i husband fed her with, first chewing it myself to
! nioisteu her little mouth; or otherwise she mud
have died for want. My voice and strength now began to fail me, as well as that of my faithful I Jenny.
I' At last, some of the people discovered in the
|: night by the light of the moon a small vdfd,
i! which did not perceive usi They cried for help,
I! but could not make themselves heard. At length
III two of the sailors left their hold, and tried to reach
|! the vestel by fwirnming } finding their strength
II not Sufficient for this, they Supported them
1| Selves on the sop Sail yard, and rowed with their
1 hands. By this means they came up to the ship;
; / was an English one, and had the happiness
to find the people ready to give them every alii
’ stance in their power.
j|i The commander immediately Sent out his boat,
!; and about nine in the mornig we were received
II on board the English, with all possible humanity.
We were then nineteen in number j proper nourishment was offered to us, but we were able I. to Swallow but a few drops. Warm beds were prepared, in which we were tenderly put. All I but one are happily recovered. Fair, winds
soon wafted us to Europe. But, good God 1 I in what a Situation were wc to land, without
deaths
.
 . 141
deaths, without money, without friends. Captain White generously offered us any assistance in his power. My husband begged the loan of ten guineas, which was instantly granted. We came en shore at gravesend, and have taken a Second floor in a little street near mary ie*bone, consisting of two rooms, the one Serves as parlour, kitchen, and our good jenny’s bedroom j the next my Montague, child, and Self, occupy.
My husband had wrote to a friend of his, a Captain York, which letter happily reached him before he Sailed for Gibraltar, where he'was stationed, who humanely Sent him thirty pounds. Augustus immediately offered to return Captain White the ten guineas he borrowed, who nobly refused receiving it, till it was more convenient to repay him. This good man has frequently called to See us in our humble lodgings, and pres fes my husband to inform him in what he can Serve him.
My dearest friend, a scheme has just struck me. My inexorable father has never yet beheld my blooming daughterj I will make one more effort to move him to compassionate my distress. My little angel shall plead the cause of her unfortunate parents. O! Cecilia, with what heartfelt pleasure should I introduce my beloved Augustus to that affluence to which he was born to Shine! O! my friend, I may, perhaps once more be happy j let me indulge the pleastng hope. My father’s interest may save my husband from the fury of boswell’s friends, who 1 hear swear vengeance against him, if ever he appears. Yes,
I will yet hope Providence will once more bless us
with
/
i’42\ Laura anu au'gustuti
with returning peace. Adieu; heaven preserve yoiu is the constant prayer of —
f
Your asseftionate
Laura Montague,
LET E R XXXIX
i
i
I
!
• Iondon.
MRS. MONTAGUE TO ivoss. btng.
I
! I
! Cecilia, tkou dear companion of my happier days, drop a tear to the heartfelt disappointment of thy unfortunate friend. Yes, my dear, my flattering dreams arc vanished. O! my father, could nothing move you to compas stonate my Sorrows? Alas 1 why was I born !■ had my Augustus never Seen me, he never would have known the misery which he is now a prey to. He would not now have been. — O 1 my God I I cannot proceed j I must for the present lay down my pen.
Well my friend, now take the story of my disappointment. You may remember how I in the concluston of my last letter buoyed myself with the hope of again being received into the paternal embrace. My scheme of throwing myself on the mercy of my still dear father filled
my
«
* •
 . 143
jny every thought. The next morning I destined for the completion of my high raised expectations.
I accordingly, as soon as my amiable Augustus had quitted home, took my little girl in my arrhs, and directed my steps to my father’s house j I soon reached harley street. But O! Cecilia, how my heart trembled t fatal foreboding of the reception I should meet! When I reached the door, I could Scarcely Support mysels;
I leaned for, I believe, five minutes against the palisades: at length, I mustered up courage and rapt gently j a servant opened the door; 1 inquired whether Mr. Levifon was at home; and was answered in the affirmative. I begged for a glass of water, as S was apprehensive of fainting. I desired him to tell his master, a stranger wished to speak with him. In a few moments I heard my father’s step. He entered, and on Seeing me started. " Ah !’’ (cried he) " who gave you admittance within these doors, ungreate full girl !” " O! my father (returned 1), throwing myself at his feet, do not look So harshly on me, but pity your poor unfortunate Laura !” Be gone, ” (resumed he) there’s your road : whoever of your friends directed you this way, misguided and abused you. What could you expect from me ?”
"Oil have little to expect on earth, but this last trial of a father’s love, to save us all from Sinking. 0, .my child! let these innocent smiles. Sir, knock at nature in your heart j let them renew my infant years to your remembrance. Oh! if ever you hope to meet with pardon in a better world, forget my faults, that Heaven may pardon yours.” (My poor little innocent Cecilia
caught
I
, t44  .
caught hold of the shirt of his coat, as if to Ir plore his protection— — my father, look on this innocent j she never offended you.” — — I almost pity the unhappy child, ” he);
but listen to what I have to Sav, Laura. In compassion to this unfortunate little girl, I will once more prove a father to you, provided I find you willing to obey me. Now mark me, no damned romantic flight j this last proposal I have to make, which if you refuse, you can expect no further favour from an insuited parent. Here, rise, and take a chair.” I obeyed, and he proceeded. — You have, I suppose. Sufficiently experienced the fruits of your disobedience?? you not, by your cursed Solly, blasted all my expectations, by' marrying that beggarly rascal, that pratling coxcomb; but you See the consequence: poverty and wretchedness have attended you.” O, my friend, this Speech was like So many daggers to my heart.
I prested my little cherub to my bosom, as Some compensation for my father’s unkind expresfions of my beloved Montague : but he continued— — ** the contrary, with boswell, every blesting would have been at your command j love, pomp, Splendour, riches, and honour, would have Surrounded you. But now, Laura, here comes my final determination : if you will consent to abandon that wretch who has misted you from your duty, will Swear never more to See him. — " Heavens! exclaimed I, starting up. O, my father, what is it you propose j to Separate me from my husband?? not our hearts one? Must not our Sorrows be one likeviise? Did we not promise at the Sacred altar, that nothing should part us? IS we were mutually to cherish each other in sickness
and
I
 . 143
?m.d. in health, can misery give Sanction to separation? No, my father, I am his j I will grieve or rejoice, I will live or die with him j I will Share his asfliftions, and by sharing them, will lesten the load that opprestes him. I shall glory in the idea of feeling all that he feels; in braving all the dangers that he braves j in showing that I am a man in heart, though a female in external form. O, ic my dearest father (and 1 embraced his knees) you must not part him from mej no never, my Augustus, while life sustains my frame, will thy Laura quit thee. O, my honoured Sir, talk therefore no more of parting usj the thought carries death with it j and thou mayest as well preach patience to the winds, as endeavour to persuade me to change my resolution, it is as immoveable as the rock of fate.
Th, e frenzy with which I spoke, I imagined, siispeaded his paslion, for, to my astonishment, he heard me without interruption. When I ceased Speaking, he in a rage Spurned me from him, saying— — — " Madam, by G — d, you have nothing more to expect from an insulted father; take yourself. ofs with your beggar’s brat, and See is love will Support you : you will find it. Madam heroine, I fancy damned slender diet.” Yes, Cecilia, these were the shocking words of my cruel father C at the conclusion of which he quitted the room, calling to the Servants to show the woman and her brat out of the house.
O my friend, to my dying day, J never shall forget this Scene j I thought my poor heart would have burst. My little girl, terrified al Seeing her mother in So terrible a Situation, began to Scream. For my father, on flinging from me, had thrown
me
i
I »
I
!
146 Laura, AND Augustus.
I
me on the floor j and, my spirits exhausted, I was in a kind of hysteric. The Servants, postef. fed of more humanity, rendered me every assistance in their power, though ignorant who I was. When able to articu!ate, I requested one of them to calme a coach, as I was Scarce in a Situatioti to stand. As soon as I gained my own apartment, I threw myself into a chair, and gave a free vent to my tears. The alarmed Jenny, kneeling by me, implored me to be pacified. — —
O, Madam (cried the faithful creature) conj fider, should my master come in, and find you
I in this melancholy state, how it would wring his
asseftionate heart. Do not give way to unavailing Sorrow j you could expect little less from so obdurate a man.” —
O, Cecilia, I cannot proceed j the repetition of his inhuman conduct.. so exhausted ray Spirits, that 1 must now bid you adieu; asturing you how much 1 always am
Your asseftionate
Laura Montague.
\
I
I
L E %
4
. I
I
 . 147
L E T T E R XL
London.
MRS;. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
\
Montague, my dear, Cecilia, has at last: gained an employment, through the kind offices of Captain White. This humane and friendly tar has procured him a place as clerk to his brother, an attorney in gray’s Inn : his salary is five and twenty shillings a week. O, my friend, what a mortifying stroke is this I But, instead of repining, I return thanks to Heaven for so timely a relief, as our forty pounds was nearly exhausted, having had ourselves and Jenny to doath. This sum, you will think, would go a very little way towards purchastng raiment for four people. But, my love, you must take notice, that Superfluities were not thought of; nothing but common necelsaries, and but few of them. Indeed, Cecilia, I question whether you would recollect the features of the once courted, once admired Laura Montague, in her homely garb. A quaker coloured stuss polcneyi^s is the tiptop of my finery., Were you to behold mistress, maid, and child, you would suppose, from the plainness of their dress, that they certainly belonged to the sober Sisterhood of Thee, and Thou.
Vol. II G My
« '
148  .
My faithful Jenny has already spoken to Mrs, busy, a milliner in Tavistock Street, a relation of her’s, who has promised to fupp!y us with work 5 and I design at Some future period, if noi* thing better turns out, to make a few sets of g!afs dreffing'boxes for Sale.; So you see, Cecilia, that what formerly Served as an amusement for a leisure hour, in happier days, will! shortly be made a means of procuring bread. — Forgive this bot, my friend; the tear would fall, upon a recollection of happier times.
Is it not wonderful, that I have never chanced to See any of my old companions? But indeed, were I to meet them, I should avoid making my fe!f known, not only out of a degree of pride, which I confess I cannot totally divest myself of, but in consideration of the Safety of my adored husband.
O, Cecilia, what a lot is mine! Brought up, as I may justly say. In the very lap of prosperity and Indulgence, to fast Into so !ow, so degrading a Situation! could you ever have believed that the once pampered, nay, the almost idolised Laura Montague, should ever have been reduced to industry for her daily support?? my inestimable, my lamented Worthy, what a fata! star presided, when death claimed thy invaluable life 1 From rshat dreadfu!, that shocking hour, I may truly date my misfortunes.
cecisia, in !osing that exa!ted man, I !ost a virtuous patron, the any friend that could essen tiahy serve my amiable Montague : by his friendship and affection, he intended to nave Secured our felicity. But what do the vain designs of frail mortals avail, against the power of accident,
which
*
*
 . 14^
which overthrows the deepest and best concerted Schemes? In an instant all our dispofitions are frustrated, our hopes destroyed, and we are devoted to air the misfortunes from which the limited view of human Sagacity thought to have Secured us for ever.
My friend, do you remember our peaceful days in c^een Square? How bright were the first dawnings of my fate! No cloud intervened to darken the bright prospeft; ai was peace and happiness; each returning day brought with it some new p!easure. No thought intruded about tomorrow j tomorrow was a!ready provided for.
The anxiety of wise and mother were then unknown. No husband c!aimed the Soft confo!ati on, the gente assiduity of !ove, to so!ace his afflicted mind j to soften the toi!s of life encumbered by Poverty.
No Smiling babe demanded the kind hand of an assiduous care to rear its tender thought j to instruft the opening mind, or with maternal Solicitude to watch over the tender plant, to raise the youthful twig to maturity.
O, Cecilia, these are the painful pleasures of thy once thoughtless friend! But adieu. My good Jenny, my companion in adversity, has, I find, brought in Some millinery frippery j I must therefore quit the employment of the pen, for that of the needle.
Yours as ufua!,
/
Laura Montague.
4
\
G 2 S
150  .
P. S. My husband desired me to tell you, that though matrimony had spoiled him for gallantry he begs leave to kifs your fair hand; and as he cannot do it in person, requests you will Substitute Some favoured youth.
9
tfx
LETTER XLI
1. f
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
A F T E R a tight days work, my friend, I Sit down to unbend my mind to the Sister of my soul. Yes, Cecilia, this epistolary correspondence is a Sovereign remedy with me, against that melancholy intruder. Thought. My dear montague’s employment deprives me great!y of his loved society j as he quits me ear!y in the mornr ing, and returns but to meals. Indeed, my dear, I am apprehensive that this c!ofe confinement will! by no means agree with my amiable Augustus. He is So greatly altered in his person, that he bears about only the shadow of what he was. I think the distance too, which we are now from Grey s Inn, is too much for his debilitated strength. I have therefore been in search of lodgings nearer the chambers he writes in, and have taken a first floor at a holler’s, which I got at the same rate as the Second floor which I at present occupy.
Another convenience will! attend our removal we may, without dread of meeting any of my former intimates, indulge ourselves with an evening
\
 . 151
jiing walk, which in this part of the town we have been cautious of doing.
My friend, you would be surprised to see with what dexterity the poor Uaura Sets about her daily employments. After having paid the proper duty of a mother to the appearance of my !ittle daughter, and my faithful Jenny, made the northeast cessary marketing for the day, and put our humble apartments in order, we seat ourselves round the fire with our needles, and beguile the tedious hours with retracing former Scenes. My !itt!e ange!, who now begins to !isp her infant ideas, often diverts our sober resteftions with some of her little antic tricks.
Thus pass our days, - uninterrupted by idle vst sitors. Sometimes, when my dear Montague can return early honae, he amuses us by reading an entertaining passage out of some chosen author. And could I but See health brighten the features
o
of my charming husband, I think 1 could, without a murmur, endure the most laborious employment. But, O! my friend, when I gaze upon his altered looks, and behold myself the wretched cause of all his Sorrows, I confess it bears heavy on my heart.
The other evening, as he was reading, his voice sounded so weak to my ears, that I involuntarily dropped the work 1 held in my hands; and, raistng my eyes to the dear object of my Solicitude, I Sancied I Saw a deathlike paleness overspread his lovely features; the tears started in hiy eyes, and I sunk back into my chair. My poor Augustus, a!armed at my sttuation, threw aside his book, and flew to my asststance. — My Laura, my wife, my dading gir!! for god’s Sake,
, G 3 ease
I
152  .
S cafe my fears; answer me. What causes this sudden perturbation? Tell me, my love.”
"O, my Augustus (returned I), you are not we!!; I See it but too p!ain!y in your altered !ooks, me!ancho!y sits enthroned on your countenance. O, my God I if 1 should !ofe you, the measure of shy woes would then, indeed, be complete.” — ** No, my tender love (cried the dear youth), I am not il! j your gentle heart is causelessiy alarmed. But O! my angel, how can I repay such a world of goodness?? Laura, my foul’s best comfort, I am not worthy of such a treasure.” " Heavens! my dear Montague, talk not of being unworthy, you are my pride, my glory, my happiness; and I would rather share the fate of the man I love, though in the dreary desarts of Arabia, than the throne of the first monarch in the universe !”
But pardon me, my excellent friend, these flights of my pen; mine you know ever implicitly obeyed the dictates of my heart: you must not therefore wonder, that it should delight to dwell on his loved name. For Augustus, ever present to my imagination, fills up every Space, and makes me lose the recollection of those melancholy ideas I should otherwise entertain, when I Survey my present humble abode. Love is the only passion, which is capable of engrossing the mind altogether; this Sovereign mistress of the fou! infenfib!y banishes every idea which does not re!ate to itself. When we are in love, we forget that there are any other objects, besides that on which our aflfeftions are paced; the vast extent of the universe Seems to Shrink in our sight, and
we
 . 153
we only beho!d that Space which includes our desire.
1 must now my friend, quit my quill, to prepare for our removal, which is to be tomorrow j when I am sett!ed in my new abode, you shall hear further from thy *" ~
Laura Montague.
LETTER XLII
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
T A M absolutely at a loss, Cecilia, for a subj*eft to write upon. I have nothing particular to inform you of concerning myself j but you will doubtless expect, on the arrival of every ship, to receive some manuscript from your Laura; and I confess myself loathsto disappoint the friend of. my bosom. So here I am Seated to write to you, without having yet determined upon a subject, in hopes that my pen may gather materials as it moves. A remarkable incident, which happened to a grandmother of my late excellent and lamented friend Mr. Worthy, has just occurred to my remembrance. I will! therefore, 1 think, as I am So barren of matter, emp!oy my pen in a re!ation' of the wonderfu! incidents which befell! an amia meand unfortunate woman; and will! accordingly without furthur preface begin.
At that period, when the istand of Dominica Tvas a wild, uninhabited by any but a fet of Indi
G 4 ans
» •
 .
ans, commonly called Caribbs j and which to thri day there are many resident in the mountainous parts; this people frequent!y made excurstons, in their canoes, to the difserent is!ands, among which was that of Antigua; by Some means or another, a Mr. L ee, judge of that istand, offended them. They Swore vengeance against him, and took an opportunity shorty after of stabbing his peace for ever. Mr. Lee had taken to his third wife a !ady of exempsary piety and virtue, and for many years !ived a pattern of conj’uga! felicity. This la day had born to her husband three children, two boys and one gir! j the eldest, which was a fon. Was between ten and eleven; the youngest a girl, had Scarce attiane® her Second year. The judge, on one fatal morning, left his wife and family at falmouth, a place where they most commonly restded, and went to the town of St. John. It was the custom, and indeed prevails to this day among the French, of hanging a liammock in the hall, where they often repose themselves for hours in the day. The Caribbs had watched the moment of Mr. lee’s absence, to put their vile scheme of revenge into execution j they had long Iain in wait for this opportunity, and the instant it arrived, they rushed like a torrent upon the defenceless Mrs. Lee, who was then !ol!ing in her hammock, with her children playing around her. The wretches seized the trembling victim and her unfortunate infants, gagged their mouths, and conducted them to the sea stde. They were then placed in the canoe j and the distrafted mother had the horror of feeing her youngest child most cruelly murdered. These monsters dashed out
the brains of the infant against a large stone,
which
 . 155
Which stood by the sea side. She was then conducted in the most dreadful state to their island. When they landed, they separated the wretched mother from her ill-fated children; and drove them to different parts of the country. This unfortunate lady happened, at the time She was carried off, to be far advanced in her pregnancy, which rendered her sttuation still more deplorable; as she expected no less than to See this innocent. So soon as born, as cruelly maffacred as her other babe had been.
It is impossible to express, or paint the treat ment this unfortunate woman met with. She was however Safely delivered of the child, whom she contrived by different arts to conceal. Sometimes by digging up the earth, in which she laid the infant, and covered it over with green leaves. frequently did she wish that, when she came to Seek the little innocent, she might find that it had breathed its last. but heaven had otherwise designed it! This lady, as I before remarked, was a woman of strict piety, and always carried a prayer book in her pocket j this book was still her companion, and the only Solace to' her afflictions. The inhuman usage she received was such, that she Srequently absconded to the raouni. tains, tho’ certain toshe still more cruelly treated
_
when found. Happily for her, - this fet of people are remarkable for their delicacy towards the female sex j which, we may suppose, preserved this unhappy lady from violation. At length a young Indian, - postessed of more milkiness than his fel iow*country men, took compasston on the miserable and deplorable sttuation she was in, and inr formed her, by stgns and a little broken English,
G 5‘ which
»
 .
■which he had acquired by frequent trips among the Europeans, if she could contrive some method for him to acquaint her friends of her wretched Slate, he would convey it the next time he visited Antigua. The poor creature, over joyed at so happy a prospeft of relief, cut upon the bark of a tree the name of the tsland she was upon with the Signature of her own; and gave it to the Caribb. This humane creature contrived to have it faithfully presented to the judge, the very next time he went to that island. Mr. Lee had made every poshble inquiry after his wife, but to no purpose;; had now given up all hopes of feeing her more, as nine months were elapsed Since the fata! morning she was So. inhuman!y forced off. Rejoiced therefore was he, when the abovementioned bark of the tree was sent him; at first he was at a !ofs, what stratagem to fa!! upon for her en!argement; he at last bethought him fe!f of a Scheme, which Succeeded to his most Sanguine wishes, and which was as so!!ows He hired a stoop, and Set Sai! for Dominica : on anchoring there, fevera! of the Indians came off to the veffel’s fide, to view the great house upon the water, as in their language they style all ships. Mr. Lee received them with great kindness and ashbility; and told them, he designed making a great treat for as many of their countrymen as chose to partake of it: accordingly most of the principal or great men of the people came on board j a profusion of victuals was provided for their reception. These Indians being remarkably fond of rum, Mr. Lee plied them p!enti fu!ly with it, when the fumes of the !iquor began to deprive these monsters ol their ufua! faculties, he had them all tied down except a couple,
►
 . i57
pie, whom he had contrived to keep rather Sober. He then addrested himself to these two in a peremptory strain, commanding them instantly to. bring to him his wife and chi!dren, orhewou!d cause every one of their countrymen to be put to death the wretches, terrified at so dreadful a threat, aromifed to obey his commands. un!ucki!y this lappened to be the day on which Mrs. Lee usually absconded. The two Caribbs took different roads, the boys were soon found; but it was some hours before they could Sight upon the unfortunate !ady, whom at !ast they found Sitting in a wood, with her infant in her arms bathing with her tears. The wretches were now afraid to strike her as customary, and therefore contented themfesves with pushing her along with great violence. This unhappy woman had never seen her two fons from the day of her arrival on that istand, to this which I now speak of. Judge then, Cecilia, what must have been her joy, at once more beholding them safe and unhurt j she would have clasped them to her wretched bosom, her arms yearned to embrace hef ' helpless children : but the Barbarians refused to gratify maternal tendfer nefs j she was therefore obliged to content herself with once more feasting her eyes upon these o'ojefts of her tenderest asfeftion. At length they arrived by the sea side, there she beheld the vestel j hef heart expanded with joy. But, good God !” cried the asflifted mourner, what an object must 1 present myself before my husband, before the crew !” Cecilia, she was almost naked; she had Scarce any covering but what leaves afforded'hen She was received on board.
I will not pretend a description of her meeting : • fulkce it to Say, that, notwithstanding all her pio
testatiohis
4
158  ’.
testations of innocence, her husband never afterwards could be brought to live with her j nor show that affection to the innocent babe, who had the misfortune to be born among these barbarous wretches. This unhappy lady, when she found not all her protestations and oaths of innocence could regain the alienated affections of her husband, retired from the world, with a faithful Slave, and Spent the remainder of her wretched existence at a place called ding a ding Nook; this Spot is So Sequestered, that the Soot of man was never vet known to have trod it. She resid ed there many years dedicating all her thoughts to heaven j and on her deathbed still persisted,, that no -; ^io!ence had been offered to her.;
This unhappy !ady, my dear Cecilia, as I be fore mentioned, was grandmother,, or great grandmother, I forget which, to my dear departed friend Mr. Worthy : and however improbable this circumstance may appear, yet it Is an indubitable fast. Adieu : your friendship will, iflat ter myself, make a!iowances for the many inaccuracies, defects, e. which this !etter, as well as my others, I am Senstble, must abound with.. The relation of the above story I undertook merely to divert my thoughts from dwesling too in ■ on my own me!ancho!y sttuation, and to deter my pen from' wandering to those Sorrows which are ever present to my imagination. But however, Cecilia, let the state of niy mind be what it will, be assured, no earthly power can ever despoil me of that friendship and regard for you, which will only cease, when I cease to be — —
Laura Montague.. End of Vol II
^
 ,
1
»
AN
J
AUTHENTIC STORY
in
A SERIES OF LETTERS,,
byayoung L ADY.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
V o L III
i
— — A whole host, a war of foes.
May Sooner be Subdued than love.
Phillips.
/
ti rn —,
X
D U B L I N:
4 *
j'rtnted' FOR R. M O NC RI E F F E, G. BURNET,. T. WALKER, R. M A RCHB A N K,. R. BURTON,, r. BYRNE, S. COLBERT, BSMITH,
N. CROSS, & J. CASH,
M, ec, lixxivi
L,. ' ••'’'ik .v' ri'' ’"s' ■'^’- • ' ■ ■ * ■'" •
C‘', it“ “• • - - ' -
... ■ -• •
i. ^ v' .‘N ■ -. - eb cvv't'
; -.. - 'm' ' ■' ■ ■
^;; ~. ' ' ■ ■' ^ f • " ^ ■
'' .A,. ' ^
'‘ ■ ’. V •• .-’., .'... ' N. ^ V - ■ • '
■ ■• -.. ' r
: ^-, ■ L ® N ■
►* *• •* ..•'•*' •. t ^ ‘ '
f... •*■,. ' • - •.
■ • ' ' ' s ■ '.. V ■■' ■: ' ' •■ ■ ''
: ' ■ iw, .■■■• - " ■.. L i '.. f^vf. • •■'''
; r ^ ■ •' ' ■
s' .0:
^ ‘ b ■ ■ ' " ■. ■ s -. V L •’' C ' L --
’ ■. • ■'-• ■. ■ .’"N v' '
-•. - .'-<, • ^.. -, y r.
. ^ ^. ■ : ■ -' ■
c'. '.). y.
i V ■ '• r ^ -•-: ' •.. ■ ^' ■^-
• 'r'' f' '^' '-■• ' i -'■• ' ^ ' ^: • yt ''► ■' i^'h
"'■■ ■ T ‘'"nn s., V. -. ■■ ' y ‘ ' ■ ' ', '
’ ■'. - .v,, -, .■
’ '■^' ■ H - r „. V ■' - '
r ■ ■ e rsf s;. ra ■ ■-. -. - ■ ' - ' 1-". - VL - ■ ■ '
X ■ ■■■: -■,. ■-■■ •. ■ .•
^' ' - ■.. - ■ ’, * V -, '. ' • ■. f
r - : A' ' _, :, .■ ■ ■■^-.. very, ■-
'; n%cnvv'c i. '■■•-■ A'. '. •• ^
--. ■■ ■ '. ■ ■. -. ■ ■■ ....l
-. - L.. ' - > ■. -
it - : •; V, • 'V * - • * ' -. : <-/ -
''' ■ * V i : ■ ■ ',. ■ y.. ■ y : i -
vf'd.rf u: :. 'ft ■ '
ft O ' ‘ • • ■ ■'-■ • ■■/■'
ft. ■ ft^'t ... -: ■ ' ^ ^ -.. ' •, ft .f, ■;
¥: F‘' ^ ft,, ■.. -: •■'■■
r4 ft' ‘ ft^f, • -. V V, V ‘
S' ' ' i, C ■ - .0 - i - - ft:.. ■
k' V — o' fc ' ' ■ ' • ■ - ' ■ >-■ -. ftn. ■ ' ■
. _ V ..., ft.. ^
/ ' V •• ■ ■• ' ’,
^'> ' • - •
■ ...'S' '. ■ - - ■*
'' ■ ’. ■ f ■■
* - - ^ '4 • ’
V.
^ » ■. - ' ■
■ ■' ' '- •■ hr ' •' ' ' • • *■ ' ■
V’ ft. '..V ■.,.. .... -. • ■ -^ •
■ • '"ft ft.y' ft ■*‘V‘ - • — • ■’ ' ‘,
■ .■..'■•'vi
ft.. ‘ ‘ • ■'■. ■•; •• ■ ' ft ^. ■.. ^. «
ya' '•' -- - '• -. ^ • •.. _-..,, *
^ ^ft/. ftftft'ft’.. ife. S, ■->■ : ' ■ ' ft; .ft.; •
-- AL - ' - ■ IV -- vvi, ft i ‘
; ftft ’S'''\^: Tv' ' ' • i • ^ ..: " '. ' \
■fft ^ ft .' ft's ■ - ’,...
■'■ ■ .” •-. ‘ ft' -' ^ ' ■. • '
ft ‘ ft?' ft; ftft:; ^ft^ft^ftft ■.. -
• '■■ ftf - S - --. Oft
ft. ■ ■ i ft
•. ' ■•. ' «•- ft, -, .A' -- y .'3?^' y'. *' • C
"listy ' ' ' " N. i: ' .' ' ' ” ** '
*.! ft ■ ■; y ^ft. ^ y
I' ■
I ' • *
'.. I
^ ••
 .
\
LETTER 5j(.in.
/
«
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
% •
TV/T Y dear Cecilia, I am not the only unhappy' being on earth. The good couple we lodge with are in the utmost: wretchedness j they find bufiness does not answer, whether through neglect or extravagance, I cannot say. But this far must be confessed, their cafe is peculiarly to Be pitied, having Six young chhdren, and the woman now !ies in of the seventh. 1 am grieved, not any on her account, but on my own, as we Shall be under the necessity of quitting our com fortab!e apartments j as their goods are to be disposed of the moment the woman recovers. Poor unfortunate peopse! you cannot imagine how I Sympathise with them
About
162,  .
*
About a week ago, as I sat bustly employed with my needle, their servant came up with her master’s compliments, to request, I would just step down a minute j down I went, ever willing to oblige But what was my horror and amazement, to behold the unfortunate man Surrounded by bailiffs. The tear of mild' compaskon stole down my cheek : I inquired the amount of the debt, for which he was in custody; and really, had I been mistress of the sum Specified, tender pity for the unhappy babes would have got the mastery of prudence, anst I should have freed their distrelsed father. 1 found too, this was not the only debt, if even it could have been discharged. The unfortunate man told me, he had taken the liberty to request my presence, to entreat I would be humane enough to break the shocking tidings to his poor vise. O! Cecilia, this’was a cruel office to me., more particularly when I considered the woman’s Situation. However, as it was necestary that Some person, should tel! heros it, I undertook the disagreeable taslc, I Sent for. the unfortunate creature, and in as gente terms as possible informed her of her hus band’s misfortune. The poor woman, half dis trafted, insisted upon feeing him, nor could we prevent it. But, my dear Cecilia, what a mournful meeting was it! 1 think I never shall forget it j the unhappy creature fell into fits, and in that Situation was conducted to her chamber, where, in a short time the agitation of her mind - on.the.pains of childbirth.
Ah!
 .
Ah! my friend, how apt are we to imagine, when wear visited by any misfortune, that fate has been peculiarly Severe to us, and, in the words of Some poet, cry out —
Is there in all the various rounds of woe
A curse so great, or pang fc exquisite,
As this poor heart is singled out to feel?
And yet, were we but to !ook about us how many far. more wretched objects should we find than ourselves, who perhaps, though miserable in some rcfpefts, have yet Some comforts to alleviate our Sorrow! for example, here is myscif, who from my earliest infancy have been accustomed to affluence, am now reduced, and necessitated to ashst with my needle to Supply our daily wants j and who live debarred the privilege of feeing, or conversing with the authors of my being. — Yet, Cecilia, do 1 not postefs blessings that counterbalance these and every other misfortune? Is
•
not Montague the man of my tenderest affections?? not our hearts mutually united? Is it not the tender study of each other’s life, to render the other happy? Cecilia, these lines written by a friend of mine we may with justice repeat to each other:
Was there a thought that gave your breast alarms,
A mournful care, made gay by fancy’s charms A gleam of hope, a dillant view of pain.
Or what the most aspiring heart could fain;
I felt those present joys, or sorrows pad.
With ftniles as true, or tears that fell as fast.
N,
«
1^4 '  .
No, my friend, the tie that binds us is not, as thompson says.
The coarser file of Hirman laws,
Unnatural ofty and foreign to the rtilnd.^
Ours is a pure disinterested friendship, the happiness of the beloved object our only aim j a tender sympathy of Soul, an unbounded confidence, which alone can ever render bliss permanent. What is the pomp and pleasures of the jvorld to us who behold in each other our all of joy and happiness? Are we not blessed too with a lovely blostom, which daily opens, and discovers fresh beauties to the admiring eye, both mental and personal??
child too, my friend, will glean from the misfortunes of her parents, an education which the most renowned seminary could not have afforded her. Her character will be formed in the hardy School of adverstty; her mind strengthened by continual exertions of prudence and industry I she will be taught humanity by having been herself a Sufferer, and experiencing the pangs of the unfortunate. Having frequently stood in need - of friends, she will learn to know the value of their attachment, and her heart become capawe of friendship. Another advantage too she will reap from her early initiation into the habitation of affliction;; difficulties and distref fes often strike out particles of genius, which otherwise might have remained !atent and ufe!efsj so misfortune contributes to the formation of the mind, by animating those Sparks of virtue, which
a life
«
4,
 . 15*5
J life of indolence and prosperity would have com plete!y extinguished.
Those people, my Cecilia, who from their earliest period have been pampered up, and bountifully provided for, by the lavish hand of fortune, are never postessed of much ambition, and consequently are seldom excited to any great exertions of their faculties, and generally feel the faculties of the mind dwindle and grow weak. Indeed, I cannot avoid thinking, that the faculties of the understanding, like the stnews of the body, are relaxed by stoth, and strengthened by exercise. I imagine the same analogy holds in the same degree between the body and qualities of the heart. Benevolence, pity, and gratitude, are, I suspeft, exceedingly apt to stagnate into a calm, stuggish infensibility in that heart which has not been agitated by real misfortunes.
You Seldom See, my friend, those whose minds have never experienced adversity, enter into dis trels which they have never Selt, and doubtless imagine the run little rish of ever feeling. I have often heard it remarked, and I believe it just, that those, who have only known a Series of fortunate events, mostly acquire an astonishing degree of infenstbility to the misfortunes of others j for I am convinced, that calamities refine and humanise the heart.
Indeed, I almost now begin to agree with my favourite author Pope, " That whatever is, is right j” as had not your poor Laura been driven through the tyranny of her father into such eni barrasted circumstances, her darling child would never have been thrown into that line of life,
which
«
t66
which may be ‘the means of drawing forth those virtues and talents which otherwise might have lain dormant. But adieu j I have already wandered far beyond the limits 1 had prescribed myself; therefore, lest I transgress further, asture you of my tender esteem and friendship, and with exultation stgn myself the wife of an honest amiable man, though poor j the title of which,
I would not change for the first name Europe can boast.
Laura Montague,
LETTER XLIV
%
Holhors.
)
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME
0
1
T Last night, mydear Cecilia, mobbed it to the piny for the first time in my life. You, who know my partiality for theatrical amusements, will not be surprised when I tell you, that, happening to Say yesterday morning at breakfast,
^ thgt the tragedy of Elfrida was a favourite play ■ of mine ( which was that night to be performed), ' my ever attentive Montague insisted upon my going, and that too into the green boxes; this however, as the expense I thought was far greater than our pockets could asford, I positively refused,
I
r
 . \6qi
fiifed, and at length we agreed to mob it to the gallery. We fortunately got most: exce!!ent seats.
My who mind was engrossed by the tender and delicate situations of Athelwold and Elfrida, ’ when my attention was roused by a trifling disturbance which arose in the pit. In directing ray eyes to the Spot from whence the noise proceeded, I cast a glance towards the stde boxes, when who should be the first objects which presented themselves to my view, but the !ive!y Lady Charlotte Seymour, and our amiable Harriot Sidney? Ah! Cecilia, what were my sensations at that moment i I Selt, I confess, to my shame, a kind of mortified pride in Seeing them, my old companions and p!ay*mates. Sparkling in the boxes, whilst the now great!y fallen Laura was humbly Seated among plebeians : the tear started to my eyes j when Suddenly casting them on my Augustus, I quick!y dispersed the briny fluid, and once more riveted my attention on the representatives of affliction. The woes of the gentle Elfrida claimed the willing tear, which now began to rush copiousty from their watery orbs.
My Montague, feeing me absorbed in tender sympathy, gently took my hand, and tenderly pressing it, — ‘^my Laura (cried the dear youth), thy soul, I fear, postestes too great a share of Sensibility, ever to render your happiness in this life permanent. Your heart, I doubt, my gentle love, is too Sympathetically a!ive to every tale of woe; you should not give way to Such quick Sensibility. While these tears are stowing, you should confider, that the woes you weep for are not real j the cunning of the scene, I confess, deceives one, and we are apt to forget we are
only
1(58  .
only in a p!ay house: but when we recollect that the whole is fiction, our sympathy and tears should cease
%
No, my dearest Montague (returned I, smiling through my tears), you mistake; it is not so easy a matter to banish we!i wrought Scenes of misery and anguish from the imagination, cspe cia!!y where misfortunes have humbled the mind to the standard of humanity; nor would I yield up this luxury of tears for ai the boasted stoicifra of the greatest philosopher. But methinks you, Augustus, have been as little capable of withholding the tribute of a tear to the woes of the lovelorn Elfrida, as myself.” I then turned the conversation, by pointing out my two former companions to my anaiable husband, who greatly admired the beautiful and innocent countenance of our old friend, Miss Sidney; we soon after this returned home, not chusing to fit the entertainment.
You will find by the date of this !etter, that I am removed; we are now !odffed with a Mr. Snarley, c!erk to an attorney. 1 cannot say I am fond of having dealings with any of the long robe tribe, as they are in general a litigious fet of people. Indeed the gentleman with whom my husband writes, is an exception to the genera! rue, as he is, I beiieve, a man of the striftest honour and humanity j at !east his conduct to my Montague has shown him Such He Seems, in good ness, to be the counterpart of my lost Worthy: but I will! now give you a short shetch of the Snarley fami!y. This man was originailya foot boy, but by art and cunning soon ingratiated himself - his master’s favour, who from that humble
station
  i6,
station raised him by degrees to be his head clerk. But, as is the case with all upstarts, his temper grew insupportable j and, it is confidently reported, nay, indeed, his own daughter declared it to Jenny, that his disposition was So vio!ent, that though he married a very amiable good kind of woman, he had by his rashness, before she died, entire!y deprived her of her hem of reason, and that she expired in a most horrid state.
He has five chi!dren, three boys and two gir!s: his e!dest Son, an unfortunate young man, has committed crimes of So black a die, that were they pub!ick!y known, he would undoubtedly meet an ignominious death. The poor wretch, I Have been informed, has been confined to the house these six months, and is at this present time a most terrible object to beho!d. His eldest daughter, a. girl of eighteen, keeps his house; and, if we may judge by appearances, is an innocent good-natured chubby creature : her Sister, a giros fourteen, is not two degrees removed from an idiot. I have been here, Cecilia, but one month, and have already been twice alarmed by the cry of murder, which was occasioned by Mr. snarly’s beating his eldest daughter in a most unmerciful manner. This, you may be sure, is very disagreeable to one of my quiet difposttion; but as in ail other respects they arc comfortable and cheap lodgings, and as we can nowhere expect to meet with every convenience, I the more willingly put up with these few difa greeables.
In short, my friend, I am weary of moving about, and Sincerely wish it were in our power to
retire
\
170  .
retire into the country, far from the noise of the busy world. postessed of some small cottage, with a sufficiency to keep us from dependance, and a sure provision to bequeath our iitt!e dading, to save and defend her from those insults and wrongs which fai! upon the poor. But farewe!!, my dear Cecilia. When writing to you, 1 never know when to fubscribe myse!f your asfec "tionate
Laura Montague.
LETTER XLV
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
* 0
I
Nature gives way, the tottering fabric reels,
And strong convulsions thro’ its vitals feels;
^ My fick’ning body racked with inward pain
Tumultuous roll’d the blood thro’every vein;
Each nerve relaxed and all my vigour spent,
While nature struggled for the great event;
The healing art could no assistance give,
Death was my only hope, for 1 defpairm to live.
’twas then, nnty friend, in that terrific hour.
When the departing soul collects her power;
Then, then 1 knew how vain the fleeting joy;
How vain the pleasures which mankind employ.
H I S, Cecilia, has been the sttuation of your Laura j a cold caught at th play brought on a fever. 1 have been exceedingly il! j my !ife was despaired of. my\afle6tionate Montague watched by my stde both day and mgbt j nor
could
t
Laura anu Augustus. 171
could he be prevailed upon to take any rest, until I was pronounced out of danger. .Every medicine was administered through his dear hands.
0, ray friend, can I pver sufficiently acknowledge his tenderness?? is the best, the worthiest of human beings! For his sake, and that of my little angel, I will try to preserve my unfortunate life. This illnefsj my dear Cecilia, has proved a terrible drawback to us j it has involved my amiable husband in much expense, and has entirely drained our pockets: we have been obliged to make an apology to our landlord, for not being so punctual in our payments as usual. But, what is yet worse, my poor Augustus has, by watching and anxiety, so impaired his own health, that I tremble when I look at him: the alteration is but too vistble j but indeed he never perseftly recovered his .wonted strength, stnee that dreadful storm which happened on.our passage home., But however, Cecilia, I will hope ' for the best, and trust my cause to the Almighty, who will not Surely visit the back with a greater burden than it is able to bear: and in this flattering hope i will conclude this letter, as my strength is not Sufficiently recovered to allow me to write my usual long epistles. And bestdes, as soon as I am a little rested, I destgn to try once more what esteft another address may have upon ray yet unrelenting father j if he would, my Cecilia, but extricate us out of our present difficulties, 'as indeed this steknefs has introduced poverty with all its horrors. And when I reflcclr upon Mr. snarley’s callostty of soul, my heart llirinks with dread and apprehension. But I will Vol. III II write
172  .
write no more upon this horrid fubj’eft: j So uticie more adieu; and believe me ever yours in sick nefs pr in health,
Laura montagy, Ei
LETTER XL VI
> • •, -.
MRS. MONTAGUE TO WILLIAM
LEVISON^ ESC;
■yrr H AT can I fay'? What horrors Surround * ^ me I My father recognise my forows, j cease to let itie plead in yain; Suffer, my misfortunes to raise your compassion.
Ah! my father, were it possible for the powers of utterance to reveal the emotions of my soul, the anxiety, the chilling fears that Rule my breast by turns, when I take a view of my destitue Situation, I should need no other witness than this paper, to evince the horrors of my circumstances. Surrounded as I am by misery.
But alas. Sir, what avails my frying the powers of eloquence to move you to compassionate the distresses I am now labouring under, when you Seem to have rooted out every Spark of affection, which by nature is implanted in the breast of a parent? Few are postessed of a heart capable of withstanding the Supplications of their offspring j few can hear of their distress, without feeling all the parent rush through the heart. But
Provi
1
  173
Providence, the aji wise Disposer of events, has doubtless Some Secret design in thus reducing me to the lowest ebb; and he will, I trust, in his own good time, either re!ease me from this world of misery by a happy death, or move you, through his gracious shercy, to relieve me by a tiriiely assistance.
Retired in the midst of the town. Secluding ourselves from every former connexion, entirely absorbed in our own misfortunes, both Montague and myself tried to forget our pride, and attempted by industry to Supply our daily wants: our attempt to gain a maintenance Succeeded to our wish, and though poor were content. I should not, therefore, my honoured parent, after the heartrending proposition I received from you, have dared venture again to so!icit the tender compassion of a still dear father, but that the iron hand of penury has once more grasped us as its prey.
O! my father, your poor Laura has been ill — very il! j the yawning grave stood ready to receive her. This sickness has necestarily incurred expenses, which we are unab!e to bear; Poverty and al its attending ca!amities stare us in the face. O, Sir, my honoured father, could you endure to See the husband of your child, the father of her infant, dragged to a loathfom goal, languishing in misery; O! if ever soft humanity touched your breast, do not wit hold from your Supplicating daughter a kind relief. On my knees I humbly implore it. Let the tears which, dropping, kifs the paper, open a passage to the avenues of parental asteftion. I rely much on the tenderness you once declared you postested for the unfotunate Laura, and trust that nature will
H 2 move
174  .
move you to become a parent to my necessities j especially when you consider, that they have, riot been brought upon us by Any prodigality, but through the unavoidable chances attending this transitory life.
O, ' God! if it be thy blestest will, turn the heart of my father to his unhappy child; let him view my errors in their proper light j let him not hold out longer against the cries of his wretched daughter and her he!p!ess babe. Influence him, fecret!y influence him, O! Father of Mercies! soften his heart, make him sensible of my forlorn Situation! Let him but remove the load of wretchedness which bears too heavy on my years! Suffer me not !onger to !inger out my days in adversity and sorrow j reward me not according to my deserts. O heavens grant this my earnest request.
How often, my honoured father, do I secretly wish, that it would peas the Almighty Director, to snatch my husband, he!piess babe and Self, from this vale of tears. O! that one srrave could open its hospitable bosom to receive us; then should we, who hadybeen so long toiling in ' the thorny road of sorrow, and roving forlorn in the dreary wilds of gloomy melancholy, destitute and unfriended j no more be exposed to dreadful hurricanes, ship wrecks, and bellowing Surges, which often howl above, beneath, and all around, threatening every moment to Swallow us up! No j adieu, 'to all these, adieu to the vicishtudes of fortune, adieu to Sorrow, pain, baleful woe, and all the long train of evils innumerable to which mortals are subject, in this clime of misery and woe.
Happy
 . 175
Happy transition 1 propitious voyage! We Should then be arrived at the blested harbour j arrived Safe at the malions of everlasting rest, where frowning Skies, disease - and disappointment are no more.
If what I have Said, and again repeat, my dear Sather, of my unfeigned Sorrow for having disobliged you, prove inesfeftual to reihove that anger which you So unrelentingiy harbour against your ill-fated daughterj what must be her lot? what must be the wretched fate of her adored husband, her darling child? Where shall she Sind a friend humane enough to endeavour to dishpate the gloomy cloud of unutterable distress, which hovers over her? Alas! T fear I must wander long ere such a friend shall be pointeclout tome. But to you, dear Sir, I lookup as the friend and proteftor heaven destgned me, therefore to you I trust, - ani relying thereon, I once more beg !eave to fubferibe myfe!f.
Your sti!! dutifu! and asseftionate,
Tho’ wretched claughter,
Laura Montague.
I
/
H 3 LET.
V
1^6  .
LETTER XL VII
WILLIAM LEVISON, esq, * TO MRS. MONTAGUE.
T N every step you move, feme new inconsistency prevades it j fresh provocations Succeed to those which wanted not additional incentives to procure condemnation. The insoient letter which you have dared to write me, after your heroical rej’eftion, as you doubtless judged it to be of the offer, which through compassion to that little wretch your child, I made, and in which you have with the most barefaced and indecent effrontery introduced the narrie of that cursed villain and astasiin your husband, has, instead, of gaining, lost ground. To an undutiful conduct you have added falsehoods j for I believe every Sentence in your letter a violation of the truth. I am not. Madam, so easily to be imposed upon : therefore, for the future, resleft what vou are I about, and trouble me no further with any more of your elaborate fcrawls, as they will without any ceremony be returned unopened by him whom you style father : would to Heaven, I had no title to that name, as it has proved the greatest torment to the justly incensed— —
Levison.
LETI

• .1
J
 . 177
Letter XLVIII
M’RS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
A H! Cecilia, > who nv shall Speak comfort to the wretched Laura j peace is for ever banished my bosom. My charming husband is very bad. Yesterday he was brought home to me in a coach. It seems, as Ife was writing in the office, he dropped off his chair in a fit, from which when recovered, the humane Mr. White had a coach called; and accompanied him himself to our lodgings.
O! Cecilia, my fympathising friend, what. language can paint my grief, when I beheld my ooor dear emaciated Augustus enter. Supported by his generous employer! I thought I should have fainted : never shall I forget the generous behaviour of Mr. White j the tear of tender compassion stood in his manly eye. " My dear Mrs. Wilmot, ” cried he, for that you know, Cecilia, is the name we pafs by, " do not be alarmed j my young friend, I hope, wi!! shorty be restored to his former strength : I wi!! this afternoon take the liberty to bring a friend of mine to visit him j” which he accordingly did. That friend was a physician: he has written a prescription, but 1 fear my hushand’s ma!ady is beyond the reach of medicine; affliction has taken too deep a root in his breast: I doubt if any cure will be found, but the peaceful grave, and in
H 4 that
t
r '
1
178  .
that thought distraftion lies. O! my friend, if 1 lose him, then a !ong. farewe!! to every g!im* mering of happiness : But there is yet one comfort, 1 could not long Survive So crue! a stroke j human nature can Support ca!amities but to a certain degree j and when 1 am deprived of my adored Augustus, then indeed will the measure of my woes be full, my struggling heart will after So mortal a wound cease to vibrate.
O! Cecilia, Such a cloud of horrors hangs over my head, as render life insupportable; in ibis dreadful state every pleastng idea is banished, and all ray Sources of comfort nearly dashed to the ground. How have the joys of my youth been poisoned by the tyranny ol a parent 1 from him have originated all my Sorrows, My dear Cecilia, I wrote as I designed to my inexorable Sather, and have received the most cutting answer. The abusive epithets he loads my dear husband with has iinfi: clcd the keenest pangs, and stabbed me - _ to the Soul. O! my friend, can his breast be so devoid of humanity, that not all my tears, my prayers, my Supplications, have been able to move him to compassionate my afflictions?? human nature be so lost, so deadened to the feelings of Christianity? O 1 ray God, teach me patience, learn my heart to bow Submiffive to thy mandates! Shield, O! shield my child srom.thofe wrongs which fall upon the poor and fatherless. Ah! Cecilia, what will become of iny little darling, my innocent prattler? who will prove a friend to her misfortunes? Like a plant torn from the ground, and thrown aside as uselefs, any one may tread her under foot, without being afraid that a stngle creature will rise in hft defence.
O!
^ * t
 . 179
O I my friend, my mind is a per Fe ft: chaos, reason at times totters; wild with despair, I Snatch my Sweet babe to my palpitating heart 1 I bathe her with my tears! I lament over her I I almost curse my own existence. But I will quit this horrid theme, and See if my poor invalid is yet awake;
I left him in a Sweet stumber. Heaven grant that it niay prove propitious!
f Your asseftionate
'> Laura Montague.
.0. • ^.
■, J '
. ■. (f r 1
■ .............. ‘ ■ J
LE T T E R XLIX
V
t
. FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
"SLA ELL, Ceciiia, hope Is for ever fled; my * ^ poor !ost Augustus Is declared to be In a galloping consumption. O! my God! why, why was 1 born to Such variety of wretchedness?? 1 must: now exert al! my fortitude, to support my mind under this shocking calamity j my poor Jenny and, I must apply ourselves with redoubled diligence to our needle, to Supply his necessities.
Do you remember, Cecilia, Mr. parsons? you know he had the care of me when a child, and was to all appearance ever remarkably particular to the poor Laura. What do you think of a Scheme I have formed of applyinsr to him in my
H 5 distress?
V
io  .
distress?? have hedrd that friendship is a plant fddora to be met with j that it is of slow growth,
'and delicate texture. But notwithstanding I will flatter, myfelfj that I shall in Mr. parsons find the valuable exotic..
Will not the length of time he has known me warrant my applying to his friendship? I think it wi!!; there will be no harm at least in making the experiment. ' If I am disappointed in him, I never more wi!i make an application to any other, who has known me in happier days; but rather beg my bread from door to door, to fupp!y our daily wants, than subject myfe!f to a Second mortifying reception.
I do not design that my husband sha!! know a Sentence of this affair, unless I Succeed to my wish. (
Our landlord has behaved better than I could' ' from so mercenary a difpofition; but I hope, I do not speak too soon.
Yours, ^
Laura Montague.
\
LET ‘
  xsi
L E T T E R L
MRS. MONTAGUE TO JOHN PARSONS, Esq.
N
SOUTHEAST E M not this letter. Sir; I h^shech you, ■cr either intruding, or impertinenti I confess, if merit; claims your friendship, I have none; but if misery can demand it, none has a greater title than the ill-fated Laura. It may appear as impertinence and intruston, the encroaching upon your feelings, by a repetition of the sorrows of an unfortunate wife and mother; nor would I now force my complaints upon your ears, but that! am willing to believe Mr. parsons the Same humane and nob!e minded man I formerly painted him to be: r therefore flatter myself this letter will meet" a Sympathetic reception; ' and am wisting to credit this idea; as my fe!f love would be too cruelly hurt, were I to own I had formed a romantic notion of Mr. Phrfons’ sentiments, and that he, like the generality of the world, fled the unfortunate.
When rrefleft, Sir, the many years you have known me, ’ even from my infantine days, and the kindness of your behaviour to me at that period, I cannot forbear flattering myself that you will not unmoved See me reduced to the greatest misery, without a friend,, who is capable of Supplying
. /
fsa  .
plying me with the common means of supporting nature j when you. Sir, have it so ^mply in your power to relieve my wants. My father’s unrelenting disposition has reduced me to the greatest wretchedness. My poor dear Montague now lies languishing on the bed of sickness, and I am destitute of the power of administering the necessaries requisite to support stnking nature.
excuse, I entreat you, the freedom of applying to you in this exigence; and, believe me, nothing but the Supreme command of necessity should urge me to be thus troublesome.
Permit me now to asture you stmply of the esteem and regard with which! ever remain,
Mr. Parsons
Most obedient
/
humble servant,
Laura Montague
V
\ \
'\
A
\
LET
 . 185
I
LETTER LI
I
JOHN parsonsj ESQ. TO MRS. MONTAGUE.
Madam,
TAM sorry to find, that the imprudence of your conduct has brought you to So distressed a state as your letter describes. Your unrelenting father, as you are pleased to style him, has I think acted with a proper degree of Spirit j when you threw yourself away upon a needy adventurer, you should have fortified your mind to meet with the distress which is ever the attendant of so undutiful a conduct as yours has been.
I confess, Mrs. Montague, your application to me is rather Surprising j nor can I See any right you had to imagine your letter would meet with sympathy from the friend of Mr. Levifon. Had you acted with common propriety, you might at this day have shone in a! the Splendour of riches. But when people are headstrong, and will not be advised by those whom age, and a perseft knowledge of the world, have renderd their Superior, but will aft in opposition to their own interest; they must abide by the consequences, in which Sentiments, 1 subscribe myself the Sympathetic friend of an abused father,
John Parsons.
L E .D
V
184
\
LIL
mrsi MONTAGUE TU MISS. BYNG:
And what is friendship but a name,
A charm that lulls to sleep;;
that follows wealth or fame,
But leaves thenvretch to weep?
goldsmith
CECILIA, read the enclosed answer from Mr.
Parsons: this is a man of Sentiment, a man of honour, a man of feeing. O! how is the name of friendship profaned! base prostitution, vile,, cloak to cover the most contemptible of actions! Cecilia, I was mistaken; the mournfu! cries of adverstty fe!dom asseft; those who are in affluent circumstances; it is in a narrow fortune,, it is in' a midd!ing station which leaves us Something to want,, which Subjects us to restraint and continual felf denial, that we !ook down with compassion.
Ahd Cecilia, where is the charity which formerly stood as porters at the hospitab!e gates of our forefathers ?' O I Heavens, that men should be such brutes 1 that they should stee! their breasts against the cries of misery! Is not this Parsons a.disgrace to Society ?' Was it not enough, my friend, for him to refuse me his friendship, but he must add insu!t to the rejection? O! Laura, Laura, how art thou fallen! What now remains for thee, beset with poverty and wretchedness j
t
• •
 . 185
nefs j encompasted round with every calamity; lost to all sense of happiness, but to fall humbly on thy knees, and implore the all gracious Father, in his great mercy, to release thee, and thy Augustus, at the same moment, from this world of misery!!
Cecilia, dreadful as my sttuation is, I would not ^upward•like willirigly !e; ave my Montague, to baffle the storms of ca!amity alone. My faithful Jenny will, I know, ^ protest my child. But is that, you cry, the any protection you would leave your infant? OI Cecilia, touch not that string, lest the wretched Laura run distrafted, and in a fit of frenzy commit an aft ion which,, nature recoils at. Just God 1 AH powerful God I who art witness of my forlorn state, and the grief which opprestes me, hear my voice I hear my fervent prayer! Open to my child some friendly bosom! Vouchsafe, O my God! ^ vouchsafe to receive me in thy mercy, before my murmurs and •complaints have made me guilty in thy stght!
O! my exalted, my irreparable Worthy, how do thy virtues rise with redoubled lustre to my mind’s eye! O! blessed shade of the worthiest best of men, how does the grateful Laura and the debilitated Augustus venerate thy memory! May the green turf lie !ight!y on thy breast! and ■may thy fou! be kept in ignorance of those agonising pangs, which the children of thy bosom are doomed to encounter in this state of probation; or thy fenstbility would interrupt the tran* ■quuity of the blesl regions of immortality!
A
Cecilia,
I
i8(5  .
Cecilia, my, heart is bursting, I cannot proceed, a short time — r— — — — but adieu 1 The
wretched ...
Laura Montague.
f > -. ■■ ■ I
. - ■
. ' L E T T E R LILL / '
/
THE SAME TO THE SAME.';
\
T This mofnirig, my Cecilia, received a note from our landlord, requesting the discharge of our bill, which, as you may suppose, lay me under great anxiety, knowing my incapability of paying him. However, 1 went down, and in treated he would have a little patience, and that I would as soon as poshble procure the money. “i’ll tell you what, Mrs. Wilmot, (cried he) if you will ascertain the day on which I shall be paid, I have no objection to wait a short time longer, as I am in no want of money. But I have no notion of wasting my Substance on gentle so!ks, as you cah yourselves" " ” (returned I) Mr. Snarley, it is not in my power to do what you destre; you See the shocking state of my hushand’s health, he is at present in capab!e of ashsting me, and therefore I must think of Some method of making up the Sum: believe me Sir, you shall lose nothing through us; but, were I to attempt fixing a day, when I knew it was uncertain when I should have it
in
 . 1s7
in my power, would only be deceiving you, and inj’uring my own character— — — — " cha rafter, indeed!” retorted he, with a Sneer, "I love to hear people make a suss about their character, who go about cheating honest men; • for what I know, you may not be married j I know nothing about you, and if you had paid me my rent, you might have been anything for what I care. But, however character or not character, I instst upon knowing when I may ex oeft to receive my own; 1 am not to be caught jy fine words, fine words won’t give bread to‘ my family.” " For god’s Sake, Mr. Snarley, wait a few days, give me a little time to look about mej we really mean to aft honestly.” " I wish I could see it, ” returned he; "I have heard enough of itj but by G — d, if in a week my money is not forth coming, I will make that fine gentleman upstairs honest, with a bailisf at his heels. 1 do not know what the Devil you mean" by Such shilly shallying, not 1.” — With this, my Cecilia, the brute left me. *'0! my God!’^ cried 1, (throwing 'myself into a chair, and bursting into tears) " direst thy afflicted servant. O!’ Merciful Father, do not abandon us, but graci ousty Save us from the threatened ruin! I know not, my friend, which way to turn, to procure the wished for sum. I have not a friend on earth to apply to j Mr. Parsons, who 1 had fondly flattered myself would have assisted me, has shown himself a man of the world. And as to applying to any of .my former fashionable friends, it would be folly, as I should doubtless meet the same mortifying and insulting reception. O f how wretched, how miserable has been the lot of the ill-fated Laura! But however, sooner or later
all
18 8’ L A UR A A NO A U G U S T US.
all things pass away, and myself and sorrows will be no more remembered. But may I not hope, that one time or other'my father may relent, and though too late for the poor Lauraj yet may he not receive my little orphan? But, my dear Cecilia, do you not think if strange, that my mother has never contrived to assist my necessities?? perhaps my inflexible father keeps too strict a watch on her actions * admit her to convey any relief to the destitute Laura.
My dear Montague is So weak, that he can with difficulty walk across the chamber j as I was just now working by his fide, * he tenderly threw ■V his emaciated arm round me, and began a most heart wounding conversation. " Laura, ” cried he, " my gentle Laura, what accumu!ated wretchedness have h heaped on thy defenceltss head I Can you pardon your Augustus? do you not hate me " Hate you 1 my Augustus, ” replied I, "sho, heaven forbid! you are my only happiness j nor should r feel one pang, if you, my dearest life, were but restored to health.”
O! my virtuous, my invaluable Laura I talk not of health j that, my sweet love, is ever fled 1 But there is a dawning jshy upon my fou when I reflect upon the grave; I doubt not, my dearest. girl, the death of thy Montague will greatly shock your fenfibi!ityj but when you, my charm shg wise, cal! reason to your aid, I flatter myself, you will be enabled to support the blow with restg nation j and 1 do not in the !east doubt but that when the unfortunate cause of your father’s dis p!easure is removed, his former tenderness will bo restored to his amiable Laura. My little gir! too will!, I trustv find at my demise a parent, more
2hh
 . 189^
able to foster her than the ill-fated Montague My tender, my angelic gir!, do not !et unavail ing grief disturb the quiet ashes of thy Augustus; we sha!! meet, my Laura, in a happier clime, never to part again where no tyrannic father will have power to embitter our joys j no frowning fortune whi there interrupt our love. Confider my disto!ution, my !ove as a debt we must al! Some time or other pay j think I am but going a journey j we must; in al! probabi!ity, had I continued in the army, have had many temporary Separations j look upon this in that kghts’
Ah I Montague, ” cried 1 in a voice broken by my Sobs, " and can you So coolly talk of parting, when to me the thought carries death? can you without reluctance leave your Laura, your poor wife? Ah! Augustus, you never loved.”
"O! my Laura, do not attempt to destroy that resignation, with which 1 have been endeavouring to fortify my breast, against that trying hour j the thoughts of this cruel separation have occasioned the most agonising pangs j but in my death I have fondly cherished a hope, that with me your misfortunes will end. Our marriage, my love, has been an il! fated union. But my dearest !ife, I find " strength greatly exhausted, I will try and comr, Southeast myself to rest, for a few moments.” He is now, my Cecilia laying down for that purpose. And,
Oh may the Softest arm - of downy slumber rock htm to repose..
all his Senses fast; and may no thoughts’
To interrupt the quiet of his bed,
In the loose revels of a dream present Those thoughts that rack thy Laura here.
You,
>
Ip6‘  ;.
You, rhy friend, whose Soul is' formed of the tenderest materials, will drop a tear of Sympathy to the woes of the unhappy Laurav
1 have been making, my friend a couple of Sets of dressing boxes, and' have formed a Scheme of applying to Lady — — — to get them raffled ost; she hears an amiable character, and, as 1 am an entire stranger to her, shall not feel my pride so deeply wounded, if I should be treated with contempt.
But you will doubtless ash, bow 1 design to introduce myself? Why, - I will tell you: I intend to write a few lines to her Ladyship, and to be the bearer of them; by which means, curiosity will naturally excite her to See the author of the letter; and, when admitted 1 will, concealing my name, reveal the story of my woes j which, if she is the woman I take her to be, I do not in the least doubt, she will! prove a friend to my afflictions". Something you knowy my Cecilia, must be done, or that brute Snarley will in all probability disturb the last moments of ray adored Augustus. — But adieu; I will now fet hard to finish my boxes.
Yours,
Laura Montague.
t
)
/
X
0
el
E
'N
I
 . 191
^. f
■.. ■. f ^ M ■ -. : ^ : i
t t * t ' >
i.. >. t • ty * V » • • • ” ... ‘ •
*»
i s L et t e r LIV
Madrajs.
\ :. ■ i
Miss BYNG TO MISS SIDNEY. '
1 4
Y dear Harriot, for heaven sake, on the receipt of this, hasten to the relief of our sweet friend Laura Montague. But alas, Harriot, I say, hasten, though I know not where to direst you to find herj the dear girl has never sent me any direction j indeed she could not, as she has been for sometime past in a very unsettled sttuation. My own letters have always been directed to be left at the India house till called for.
The last accounts I received from her informed me she had been ship wrecked. And my lovely girl talked of working with her needle for support, the bare idea of which has struck a dagger to my heart. Apply, my dear Harriott, at Mr. levifon’s, in harley street j he doubtless knows where she lives. O! my friend, what a hardened heart does that man potfefs, thus to abandon his only child to the milerics of poverty! I never for my own part, so much regretted my absence from Europe as at this present. The image of my Sweet Suffering friend haunts my imagination. What happiness had I flattered myself would have
attended
I
c92 Laura and Ausustus.
attended her, under the generous proteftlon ot the amiable, the excellent Worty L But alas! how vain are our destgns of futurity on earth! how uncertain are Serene days! and what a mixture of misfortunes is dashed into the cup of happiness even at our !ips. 01 my be!oved Laura, the gentle friend of my bosom, perhaps at this moment, you are experiencing al the hardships of life, while thy ceci!ia is cuing all the uxu ries!
You, my Harriot, ever tenderly !oved the dear Laura : wi!! you not therefore be afflicted at her misfortunes? Yes, Surely you will. And my Harriot Sidney is not one of them who allow any emotions of that nature to pafs unimproved, or evaporate in sentiment; you generally put them to Some practical use j ■ exercise then that generosity of soul, in favour of my unfortunate Laura. O! my friend, until I hear from you, I shall be agonised with the most cutting reflections, and distrafted with despair. Adieu, I can neither write, nor think, upon any other fubj’eft at. present.
Your stncere and asseftionate,
Cecilia Byng.
LET
i . 193
L E T T E R LV
iportland flau
* \ s
MISS SIDNEY TO MISS BYNG.
T T is impossible to describe how mortified I feel myself, my dear Cecilia, .at not having as yet been able to discover the retreat of our amiable and unfortunate friend, Mrs. Montague. Immediately on the receipt of your letter I ordered the carriage, and polled away to Mr. levifon’s. Mrs. Levifon was out; but I found that obdurate father at home. I tod him I had taken the liberty of calling at his house, to request a direction to his daughter, who I understood was returned to England. " miss Sidney, ” cried he, starting from his seat, " I have no daughter j at least. Madam, I disclaim the name of father 5 but I suppose you mean Mrs. Montague j if So, miss Sidney, give me leave Xo insorm you, I know nothing of that imprudent ruined creature, and I wish I had known less.”
O! Mr. levisbn, ” Said I, do you, can you forget that she is your daughter? if you do Sir, the world, believe me, will not : for god’s sake, my dear Sir, do not suffer passion to overpower your better judgement. Do you confider that your daughter .can experience no disgrace,
that
194  .
that will not fall with double violence upon your own head j show therefore some fma!! degree of compassion to my unfortunate friend j she is at this present, Mr. levison, I am well assured, in great distress j perhaps at this moment she is In want of the common necestaries of life.”
Then, Madam, ” returned he, "she has no one to thank but herself: had it not been for her damned romantic folly” — ** Stop, Mr. Levifon, I do not wish to hear any invectives against my sweet fiiend j a!! 1 have to request is, that if you will not yourself render her any assistance, do not refuse her the consolation of a tender friend j inform me. Sir, I beseech you, where she lives.” ** By heavens !” cried he in a rage,, ** I know not j and you, Miss Sidney, cannot offer a greater insult to me, then to reap up the cursed name of Montague in my presence j he is a low beggarly Scoundrel, and she an ungreatfu! gir!, and a disgrace to her fami!y. And by G — d. Madam, Sir chares afts the part of a madman, if he Suffers his daughter to hold any correspondence with So artful, so undutiful a wretch.” Cecilia, this speech roused me, my blood boild indignant. The abuse he So lavishly bestowed upon his injured daughter, deprived me entirely of the command of my reason j ristng from my chair, 1 ad drested him thus; ** unseeling monster, you are unworthy So great a treasure j but know, that every company I enter I will loudly proclaim the injuries of ray sweet friend. And O I may the sharpest pangs of remorse and anguish be thy lot! may despair prey on thy vitals! and may’ll: thou be destitute of a stncere friend! that thou may’st in some degree expiate thy crimes 1 Farewell,
Sir,
f
)
 . 195
Sir, If So hardened a nature as yours Is can be sensible of compunction, trust me, you will one day Severely repent your unheard of barbarity.” Upon Saying which, I hastily quitted the house, not waiting a rep!y.
I confess, that upon coo! recoheftion I was sorry, for having made use of such harsh an guage; but at the moment his bruta! conduct: quite over powered every idea of reason— —! my dear Cecilia, what a castofity of fou! does this same father of our friend postess! Gracious God! how thankfu! ought I to be that I am West with a parent, whose every aft: ion seems to aim at establishing the happiness of his child I O 1 merciful heaven! grant that the existence of Harriot Sidney may end, ere her heart ceases to acknowledge the gratitude and aflteft; ion she owes to the best of fathers! Adieu, my friend, and rest assuied, that my own warm friendship and aste ftion for the amiable unfortunate will! prompt me to exert every method to trace out her pace of residence, exc!ufive of the rea! esteem and tenderness which my heart has ever sincere!y felt for the virtues of my dear Cecilia j and with the warmest wishes for your health and felicity, I fubferibe myself,
Yours
Harriot Sidney.
^ 4
vol. III i LET
J
t
V
9
19c  .
s
I
LETTER LVI
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
E L L my dear Cecilia, I yesterday put my
plan of app!yingtolady^ — — into execution; but you shall hear how I proceeded. I wrote 3 letter to the following purport:
TO THE RIGHT HON. LADY —.
"THE humane and generous difpositloii for which your Ladyship is so j‘ust!y celebrated, has emboldened an unfortunate chid of sorrow to address herself to your known humanity. A heart so feeling!y a!ive to the misfortunes of others as yours, must, I am certain, interest you in the fate of the bearer of these lines, whose ear!y dawn has been clouded by a continued scene of unfortunate events.
"I have taken this extraordinary method of introducing inyfelf, as I was sensible I should never be abe to make the reason of my unwarrantable intrusion known by words. But I am well allured, would your Ladyship but permit me to acquaint you with the story of my wretched life, you would at least pity and pardon my inexperienced youth.”
This letter, my dear, I carried myfeif: it soon, as I expected, procured me admission, and her Ladyship has promised, that if upon inquiry
she
Laura anu Augustus. ipj ^
she finds what I have Said to be just: she will render me every assistance in her power; she designs Sending some person to See if my husband is in the deplorable sttuation I represented him to be. I am theresore momently in expectation of receiving a vistt from that quarter.
Ah! Cecilia, what a mortifying procedure is this! But what elfe could I do, to Save a tenderly beloved husband from the horrors of a gaol? Pity me my friend, for sure no miserable wretch ever stood in greater need of commiseration j my poor montague’s strength daily decreases, the gloomy harbinger of death makes quick approacli. O! Cecilia, my poor weak heart can never support the shock of !ostng him I My anxiety on his account at present Serves in Some degree to keep my Spirits from stnking. -
IN CONTINUATION.
THIS break of my !etter, Cecilia, has been occastoned by the expected visttor j the person, whom Lady — — commissioned, is a miss Lincoln, a young Lady whose appearance bespeaks humanity. She entered while 1 was writing. ** I fear, Mrs. Wilmot, I interrupt you, but I come, madam, authorised in this intruston by Lady — —, who wishes as much as in her !ies to alleviate the misfortunes of the afflicted.” From her pretty gente address, 1 had no doubt of the benevolence of her heart. I told her, I flattered myself, she would excuse the request I was going to make, for that my husband was a stranger to the step I had taken, and which nothing but extreme necessity could have driven me to : I must therefore beg leave to introduce her as a person destrous of
I 2, pur
ipb  .
purchasing the'^dressing boxes. To this proposa! she readily consented. I conducted her into the chamber, where Sat my poor emaciated Augustus, Supported by pillows; she Seemed greatly assefted at this Sight, and after examining the boxes left me, with an assurance of soon hearing from her. This, my friend, is my present sttuation j how it will end, heaven only knows : but I cannot help buoying myself up with pleastng expectations. People surely cannot out of idle curiostty think of prying into the misfortunes of another, without an intention of granting relief to their affliction. But farewell, I must now quit my pen, and asture you how stncerely I am, in all sttua tions.
Your asseftionate
Laura Montague.
letter LVII
MRS. MONTAGUE TO MISS BYNG.
0
Alas, my friend, I am in the most extreme misery j that wretch snarsey has behaved in the most bruta! manner: for this week past he has continually tormented us for his rent. Not content with demanding what is his due, he has abused us in the grostest language. His continual cry is, " My money! When do you mean to pay me my money? By G — d, I instst on knowing the time I am to be paid ?” In short Cecilia, yesterday his conduct so flurried the weakened spirits
 . i'99'
I'lts of my poor husband, that I lost all patience
at his inhumanity. -- O!! heavens!
(cried I) Mr. Snarley, is it possible that you can she so destitute of the feelings of Christianity? I confess. Sir, that your demand is justly your due j but do not forget that mercy should ever temper justice. Mercy is a godlike attribute — — .” ** None of your fine speeches
(interrupted he) I will have my money, I say !” — " Good God, Mr. Snarley (returned) I would you, like Shylock, have a pound of flesh? Will nothing less satisfy you? On my life. Sir, I never saw one who acted better up to that character than yourself. But remember, thou child of fortune, who for a short season art Suckled with the milk of prosperity, which flows from her impoi foned breasts, be not too much elated with the happiness of thy condition j I, like thyself, once rocked in the cradle of ease. Do not therefore forget, that the same Almighty hand which raised thee to independence, may in one moment reduce thee to the same state with ourselves, the children of sorrow and of misery: : not that you now stand tottering in the uncertainty of life, and that in the next world you may stand in as great need of a friend as I do here.” Saying which, Cecilia, unable longer to support my agitated spirits I burst into tears. My poor debilitated Montague was incapable of affording me any consolation : this torrent of calamity bears heavy on his weakend constitution. O, this vie, this worth!efs snar!ey j the vengeance of heaven will doubtless one time or other overtake his crimes. When I have seen the inimitable mack lin perform the part of shy!ock, I have started
I 3 with
200  .
with horror, I Scarce believe the world contained so great a monster : but here I think all my doubts must end in certainty, as destiny has thrown in my way his very counterpart. But however, my friend, before the brute can put any of his execrable schemes into execution, 1 hope to be enabled, through the humanity of Lady — — —, to extricate ourselves from his tyrannical power.
The Sight of this monster is become hateful to me j his barbarous behaviour wilb I fedr, hasten the gloomy mestenger of death. O, my beloved Augustus, into what wretchedness, what accumulated misery, has an unfortunate attachment involved us! What an unhappy concatenation of events have Succeeded our ill sated union f Cecilia, take warning from the Sat of thy Laura; never fusser a tender inclination to hoodwink your discretion, let the object be ever So deserving. Had I, my Cecilia, stifled the first dawnings of this Satal passion in my breast, instead of weakly yielding without reststance, I still might have been, though not a happy woman, yet not the very wretch I now am. I should not at this moment he accustng myself as the wretched cause of all my adored montague’s Sufferings. O, my Cecilia, think what 1 endure, when I behold the object of my tenderest, my youthful love, languishing upon the, bed of steknefs, destitute of those little conveniences and nourishments which his present state requires. But he will! not long, my friend, be thus wretched j that barbarian Snarley has struck the final blow j nature shrinks under So Severe a stroke. myself too, thank God, Cecilia, will! not !ong troub!e this patient
earth; I feel an inward assurance of this. O!
blested
 . i
blested prophecy! My friend, thou stster of my bosom, when you again re vistt this happy ifle, will! you not deign to drop a tender tear on the cod grave of thy Laura? Wi!! not the late of our unhappy !ove cause the gentle stgh to heave in the bosom of friendship? Will not mild compasston lead you to patronise the innocent oflfsprings of thy wretched friend? O, yes! I know it will Cecilia j the former companion of my happier days, will! not suffer her friendship for me to descend into the stlent tomb. It will revive afresh, and. boom anew in favour of my little darling, my sweet child. O, Cecilia, Suffer her not to see! the loss of her parents j foster the tender branch; be a mother to the motherlessi O, my friend, it is thy once happy Laura, that now implores your protection for her helpless babe. But a!as, I cam no more, tears bind thy
Laura Montague.
V
LETTER LVIII
0'
•r*'
MISS LINCOLN TO MRS. WILMOT.
AS I am fenstb!e. Madam, that, to a de!icate mind, nothing is so painfu! as talking over its sorrows to those who have no right to the confidence, but that of a feeling heart, I take this method of conveying Lady — — ’s answer to you; wishing at the Same time to Save you the troub!e of soong a wa!k. She requests you will! Send the boxes to my house;; despairs not of being
I 4 able
202  .
able to assist you in raffling off your pretty piece of work. In the mean time she requests your acceptance of the enciosed five guineas. 1 must entreat you will be assured, that I shall be extremely happy to render you any Service that lays m my power. I flatter mysels this will find Mr. Wilmot in a better state of health than when I Saw him; and with wishes for your happiness I Subscribe myself, Madam,
. \ Your obedient humble Servant,
Charlotte Lincoln.
LETTER LIX
MRS. WILMOT TO MISS LINCOLN.
'what words shall I address you. Madam,
- '*• born down as I am by the iron hand of misfortune? Sorrow seems to have marked me aber own; but the wist of heaven must be obeyed, and I will learn, if possible, to submit with patience to my unhappy destiny.
You, miss Lincoln, hinted to me, that you had felt the keen hand of adversity j if so, your Sensibility will best paint to you what my feelings must have been on the receipt of Lady — — — ’s humane enclosure. But alas. Madam, how did I feel my pride wounded, on receiving a present of that nature from a stranger j though at the same time 1 confess it is some alleviation of my distress, that I am obligated to a lady of so exalted a character as Lady — -- -
Permit:
 . 265
Permit me, Miss Lincoln, then, through your means (as a letter from me might be deemed intruding) to present my Sincere acknowledgments to her Ladyship j and asture her that I shall ever retain a most grateful remembrance of her humanity j and that as long as I have life, my heart will never cease feeling a most fensible es teem few the many amiable virtues her Ladyship postesses.
Give me leave now, Madam, to offer my thanks to you for the generous interest you have taken in my unfortunate aflfairs, and the friendly assurance vvhich your letter exprestes; but thanks, I am convinced, ’ to a noble mind, must be rather oppreshng than pleasing.
An apology, I am' fensible, Miss Lincoln j would be highly necestary to some ladies, on detaining them from a more pleasing employment than that of reading a dul! uninteresting scrawl
from a child of adverstty. But a Lady -- -- —,
or a Miss Lincoln, whose hearts seem a receptacle of every virtue, and to be feelingly alive to every call of pity, would, I doubt' not, b.c. rather deemed an affront.
Would to God, my dear Madam, I could answer your kind inquiries after the health of my dear Mr. Wilmot, as 1 could wish j but I apprehend a short time will put an end to every earthly care on his account. excuse my dwelling longer on So mournful a theme : will therefore no further detain you, than to asture you I shall ever gratefully remember your generous conduct: to the truly unfortunate and ill-fated
Laura Wilmot.
AS LETN
2©4  .
L E T T E R LX
t
MISS LINCOLN TO MRS. WILMOT.
T DO assure you, Madam, that it was not without great emotion I read the letter you sent me yesterday, which should have immediate!y answered, but was waited for by Lady "Y — — who calied to take me out at the instant I received it. could feeiing for you asteviate your dis tress, you would have no cause to comp!ain. I have nothing to offer for your consolation, excepting that you may rest astured that Lady — will, as Soon as possible, discharge her promise to you. I think you would do quite right to send her Ladyship any acknowledgment you may think necestary by letter j and, to Save you trouble, I would advise you to Send it by the penny post. When you have a wish to See me, let me know by the Same method, that I may not disappoint you by being out.
The will of Heaven, you Say, must be obeyed, and you will !earn, if poffib!e, to submit to your unhappy destiny.” Alas, Mrs. wi! mot, the will! of Sleaven must be submitted to. There is no counteract ing the divine ways of Providence; and you are So iitt!e used to the calamities of !ife, that you do not know that there are millions in the Same sttuation with yourself: millions that have fusfered every misfortune the
hand
t
Laura anb Aug ustus siof
hand of adverstty could inflict; who, from a proper restgnation to the almighty’s decrees, and implicit confidence in his mercies, are now above the Scenes of misery they have felt. Depend upon it, though we cannot see why it pleases God to asssift us, he has his reafonsi He loves us. too well not to order everything for our good j and' though that good is so‘ remote we cannot See it, yet do not despair; for I know by experience, that when we think all is lost to us here, we are the nearest to happinefsi Do not despond; trust in him, who never disappoints us; I should have sent this before, but, to my shame be it spoken,
I have not had one moment’s leisure till now. Fray write to Lady— —, excuse the liberty I have taken in writing to you in this style.
I will not broach the subject of Mr. Wilmoths' health, lest, by touching the wound, I unintentionally cause it to bleed afresh; but beg you to' believe me at all times ready to asture you I am
Very much,.
Your humble servant,
cha rlot tb Lincoln.
t
i
LET
\
Laura and Augus tus.
LETTER LXI
MRS. WILMOT TO MISS LINCOLUT
O convince the amiable and highly esleemcdi Miss Lincoln, in how kind a light I take the letter She has this day favoured me with, I have immediateiy on the receipt of it sat down to >acknow!edge her great goodness. Your desire, my dear madam, of my writing to Lady — — —, f have fu!fi!!ed; and hope my remaining soong without acknow!edging her generosity, has not given her Ladyship a mean opinion of my gratis tilde. Suffer me Madam, to request you will! endeavour to eradicate that idea, if she has formed it: as be astured, my silence proceeded from nothing but a diffidence, owing to my present hum b!ed situation.
You,. Miss linco!n, have a heart and fentl ^ ments singular, and seldom to be met with in these dissipated times j but you tel! me you have a!rea dy tasted Sorrow deep!y. I truly have experienced adversity, and hope I have gleaned from my Sufferings, patience and resignation. But beiieve me, that whatever pang this poor heart is Singled out to feel, I shall ever regard.your friendship as a very fortunate acquisition.
Alas, Miss Lincoln, I feel the full force of your expressions when you desire me not to despair.
 . 207
pair. I will not; for happiness does not leave its habitation in the human breast, whi!e it has a singe point whereon to rest, though it enjoys but a final repose, though it never knows an uninterrupted interva!, still it yie!ds with reiuftahce the little it possestes j and when it is driven fiom the sanctuary, it will cleave to the threshold.
But I will no longer detain you with my reflections, or a definition of that happiness which my soul ardently longs to postefs. My hopes now centre in one spot j time will! unrave! my meaning. But be astured, Madam, your conversation will! be a Solace to my asbiftions j and with' your permission, will! wait upon you either Saturday or Monday, whichever day may be most agreeab!e. Adieu, Madam r and may none you !ove ever experience the Sorrows I have felt, prays from her heart.
Your gratefully Sincere
Laura Wilmot.
LETTER LXII
t
Madrafsi
MISS BYNG TO MRS. MONTAGUE.
%
MY gentle Laura, how docs my heart bleed for your fuflferings? What copious torrents of tears have not your melancholy Epistle cost me? The miseries of my Sweet friend, are ever
present
<
/
2o8  .
present to my mind’s eye. I figure to myself my Laura finking under the cruel presture of affliction. Want, and al! its dead!y attendants, appear to my haunted imagination, as Surrounding the Sister of my heart. O, my Laura, why has crue! destiny raised So dreadful a barrier as the sea between us ^ Why is not thy Cecilia permitted to fly to the relief of distressed virtue j to heal the insusserable pangs of misery; to speak comfort to thy desponding mind? Od my Sweet friend,, we sha! yet, I trust, see many, many happy days. Take courage, and baffle, if possible, the hard gripe of an arbitrary father.
I have,, my dear, a strange,, though plefising adventure, to inform you of; but must first request you will be kind enough to Send'the enclosed letter by the post to miss Sidney.
Now, my dear unfortunate friend, for my adventure. You must know that about a week ago a party upon the water was proposed j the day was remarkably fine j the sun’s enlivening beams played round us j all nature conspired to our wish. Provisions of every kind were imported to a hermitage at the foot of an extreme high mountain, on the banks of a beautiful meandering lake j we were conveyed in a barge gai!y ornamented, while a noble band' of music played the Softest airsj the gentle babbling of the water, and the delicious landscape which displayed itself to the admiring eye, showed aft was banished, and that nature here held her court. Hushed was every voice; a filent contemplation reigned. My thoughts involuntarily strayed to the ashifti ons of my Laura j and I was mortified, when my tender sympathy was interrupted by the stopping
 . 209
ping of our barge at the destined place of landing. After having spent sometime in viewing the cave, and the enchanting works of Providence, we bent our course towards a large tree, whose Spreading branches was to Screen us from the too piercing rays of Phoebus. Under this canopy of of nature was a cold collation spread.
When our repast was ended, we rosc, and sallied forth once more to view the wonder working hand of the Creator. The gentleman to whom the barge belonged, politely ofsered me his arm, which I accepted. Before we had proceeded many yards, he addrested me in the following words.
Your amiable difposttion, miss Byng, will,. I hope, pardon the liberty I have taken in reading this !etter (pu!!ing a paper from his pocket) which you, Madam, dropped on quitting the boat.
. Not knowing to whom it belonged, 1 picked it up : I blush to Say, that,. Suffering my curiostty to bear down my politeness, I opened and read it j and there found the history of one nearly connected to me, penned by your friend. Ala, you see before you, miss Byng, a man who was for many years the Sport of fortune. But I will, my dear Madam, as Some palliation for my freedom in reading your !etter, inform you of a few particulars relative to my life.
However, Laura, I will, to avoid circumlocution, cease to pen the gentleman’s expreshons, and inform you in brief of his history.
He informed me, that he was originally destgned for the bar j but not being of a difposition to relish So dry a study, he had absconded from his master, and entered on board a vestel bound
for
210 Laura and Aucustus.
for the West Indies. This rambling life agreed perfectly with the bent of his inclinations. At length he was promoted to the rank of mate on board a merchantman belonging to Jamaica: that while on board, he had the good fortune to rescue a young woman from the brutal violence of his captain. In short, Laura, this gentleman proved to be your faithful jenny’s husband; therefore I need not repeat thole misfortunes which obliged him to quit her, as he did, in a strange country j but proceed with his adventures. When he left his wife, he, by the interest of a brother tar, concealed himself on board a ship bound for Liverpool, to which place he sailed • with the rest of the crew. That soon after his arrival in England, he had, by the interceffiorrs of his friends,, regained the favour of his uncle, whom he had greatly displeased, by quitting the attorney with whom he had been placed. The old gentleman finding that his nephew had so particular a disgust to the bar, he generousty determined to provide for him in his own way, and accordingly got him appointed on board an in diaman. By a succession of lucky events, he has amassed a pretty little fortune, and now trades from the different ports in a Small vestel of his own. He is much esteemed in this part of the globe for his upright and honest dealings with the natives. His treatment of his wife, he declares, in having abandoned her in a foreign clime, has been a continual Source of discontent in his mind; and hadshe known where to have found her, he should undoubtedly have Supported her as became him. He designs Settling his concerns here, and returning to Europe next year,
to
 . ii
to enjoy the fruits of his industry. With thm comes a letter to his wife, and a remittance for her present support.
It seems, the letter I so fortunately dropped was that in which you related the misfortunes of that excellent creature, and which I had selected from the rest of my papers, to show a young lady of this place. Adieu, my friend. I partake in imagination of that felicity which you will experience, in giving joy to So worthy a heart as your faithful jenny’s. The Sentiments which embellish the mind of my Laura are so j’ust and noble, and so prone to communicate pleasure to al! around her, that I cannot forbear painting to my imagination my Sweet friend, adorned with all the charms of beauty, the graces of the mind, the greatest dignity of soul, and in whom are united al! the virtues of the humane breast, tenderly .breaking to the wonder struck Jenny the amazing inte!ligence. But once more farewell. Remember me affectionately to your deserving Augustus. And I flatter myfeif my laura’s ex a!ted sentiments wi!i fet her above the !ittle mean pride of refustng to accept the enc!osed trifle for the use of my sweet !itt!e god daughter j and believe me thy very Sincere and' tender!y aflfeci^ tionate
Cecilia Byng.
, »
/
L E T.
^12  .;
«
letter Lxiir.
MISS BYNG TO MISS SIDNEY.
(
I '
« *
T H O P E, my dear Harriot, that I have af last hit upon an expedient for you to find out our beloved friend, by inc!osing this !etter to her, and requesting her to forward it by the post; by which you will be enab!ed to trace out her pace of residence, by the post mark. I hope, Harriot, this litt!e stratagem will Succeed to my wishes, as I am greatly apprehensive on her account. But adieu, you wi!! receive by the Same ship, !etters which contain more cirumstantial accounts of the we!fare of — ■
'Your Sincere and asseftionate
Cecilia Byng.
. f
$
LETTER LXIV
rortland placi.
\
MISS SIDNEY TO MISS BYNG.
TT^HAT my most unwearied endeavours were * * incapable of gaining, chance has by one flier lucky hits done for me. But to keep you
no
 . 215
no longer in fufpencc, know that I have found ' our lovely friend.
Yesterday morning I happily fixed upon to pay a visit to Miss Lincoln j happily, I Say, for it was there fortune threw our dear Laura in my way. miss Lincoln was showing me a very
pretty fet of glass boxes, which Lady -- -- -- -- --
had promised to raffle osf, for an unhappy woman, who was then labouring under the most comp!icated misery. I requested to place down my own name for two chances j at that instant a servant entered, and informed Miss Lincoln, that a person waited below, of the name of Wilmot: Show her up, ” cried she. " miss Sidney, this is the unfortunate woman we have been Speaking of: ” at that moment, Cecilia, the door opened and announced the approach of distress. She entered, but Scarce had she raised her eyes from the ground ere she faintly exclaimed, O I heavens !” and Sunk into a chair. We flew to her assistance. I untied the hood of her cloak, which had been drawn close round her face. But, good God! what was my astonishment to behold in this unfortunate woman our beloved Mrs. Montague. In a short time, by proper applications, she recovered j she cast her lovely eyes upon me.
"O! Miss Sidney” cried the dear girl, " will you deign to recognise so poor, so wretched a creature as myself?? you not blush to own you have any knowledge of so unfortunate a being as Laura I”
"O! my sweet friend, ” cried I kissing her pale cheeks, " think not So meanly of your Harriot.
I had flatered myself, you had had friendship enough for me, to have informed me of your return to Europe.” " O! my dear Harriot, ” returned
2i4  .
turned she, " I found the name of friendship so empty, and have So often experienced the fallacy of tender professions, that I unwittingly blended Sincerity with hypocrisy; by which means I have over looked at least one virtuous heart j pardon my injustice.”
miss Lincoln stood lost in astonishment j but I Soon unravelled this Seeming mystery j and I accompanied our dear Laura home.
O! C ecilia, never Sure was there so great an a! teration in any woman." sharp misery has worn her to the bonej the roses entirely fled j a death — like paleness o’er spreads her beautiful featuresi In short, I fear I am arrived too late. O! my friend relentless death will in Spite of all my ef forts Seize its lovely prey j she cannot hod it much longer; her gentle heart has received a shock that will deprive the world of one of the' most virtuous most lovely of women. The amiable Montague too Seems each moment approaching nearer to eternity j discafe has not been able to rob him of those charms, which proved So fatal to the repose of our dear friend. He still retains the most benevolent countenance. Indeed Cecilia my heart pleads for the Sorrows of this ill-fated pair. What a heart! what a soul of rock does old Levifon postefs! to have reduced so amiable a couple to the threshold of the grave.
My dear Miss Byng, you never beheld So lovely a creature as their blooming ceci!ia is. So engaging j in short, she inherits all the tender gentleness of our Laura. I inststed upon our friend’s permitting me to take her home with me and am greatly delighted at having gained the love of the Sweet little moppet. My father was enchanted with the dear prattler, and has kind
 . 215
ly consented to my taking the charge of the lovely girl, when it shall! please the Almighty to re!ease her unfortunate parents.
But 1 will not dwell longer upon this heart piercing theme but inform you that the excellent Mrs. Morgan bears her advance of fortune with the same magnanimity of soul for which we So justly admired her in her adverstty. Adieu, my dear. Cecilia j the carriage waits to conduct; me to the dear obieftiof my Solicitude.
Yours,
Harriot Sidney. LETTER LXV
'FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
TAM just returned my dear Cecilia, from see ing our valuable Laura. I was pleased to Sec with them a gentleman, who my Sweet friend informs me has acted with the utmost friendshin
k
towards them. His name is White, and is the attorney who humanely employed the unfortunate Montague on his arrival in England. He has proved himself a truly good Christian, for in the midst of all their astliftions he never abandoned them j but on the contrary humanely as sisted their wants and had the goodness to attempt bringing that wretch Snarley to a proper sense of humanity. His conduct through the whole course of their connexion does honour not only to his heart, bat to his understanding; he
has
2i6  .
has generousty supplied them with a!! medical ap Siftance. In short, he is an honour to his pro feshon; and if virtue meets with its reward in this life, this excellent man need not doubt, but that prosperity will attend all his endeavours.. I destre, my Cecilia, you will not imagine from what I have Said, that this worthy character has robbed your Harriot of her heart. No, my friend, this gentleman is already married, and that too to a lady many years older than himself, by whom he has one child: he shines not only in the character of a friend, but also in that of husband, and father. In short, my Cecilia, he is one of the most pleastng men I ever yet met with j his friendship to our dear unfortunate couple has gained him a place in my warmest esteem: : sat with us till eight o’clock, and then departed to the mutua! regret of our litt!e society. Poor Montague run out in the highest encomiums upon the benevo!ence of his heart, the strength of his understanding and his thorough knowledge of his profession.
I then opened a proposal which I destgned making to our dear friends, which was to accompany me down to Hatfield, as I doubted not the country air would be of benefit to both But Montague shook his head, and declared he was sensible that no air could now prove efficacious j and indeed, my friend, I am of his opinion. But I am willing to try every method to Save so inestimable a pair; as to our poor Laura, I fear, by concealing her grief, it has added to its poignancy, and made the poison more venomous. I did not quit them till Sat, and intend dedicating all my time to their consolation. I destgn to carry with me tomorrow
 . 217
tnorrow.sir Richard Jebb, as I am anxious to know his opinion of their cafe; and if he thinks the change of air will be of the least benefit, I wi!i positively force them to their good.
My dear father, Ceciha, has kind!y given me permission to make what use I peas of Hatfield; and has humanely desired me to remove my friends to Portland Place, which I shall certainly do, if Sir Richard does not advise the country. But I must now asture you how much I am.
Your aflfeftionate
- Harriot Sidney.
\
LETTER LXVI
I
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
A S I purposed, I carried Sir Richard Jebb to visit our dear friends j and it is with the most heartfelt anguish that I acquaint you he gave me no hopes of the amiable Montagueh life, for he declared it as his opinion, that he could not struggle with his disorder many days longer : and our sweet Laura, he says, is far gone in a decline. O! Ceci! ia, what a crue! fate is mine no Sooner to have found, than to find myself obliged to yield two such valuable friends to the cold and icy erribrace of death! It was with the greatest difficulty that I have been able to prevail on this lovely couple to remove to our house. But I was obstinately bent in carrying this point j as I should be enabled, by having them under the Same roof
with
\
f
Qi§  !.
.\ <
■with myself, to render them a thousand little attentions and Servcies, which the distance of their lodgings made impoffibie.
It was two days before I could accomp!ish my wishes j but I had the satisfaction at !ast to pre vaih The poor emaciated Montague was ob!ig ed+4d be carried down stairs: : he was put in the chair, he was so nauch fatigued, that he as near Saintihg. But, however, thank God 1 we got him and our; dear friend Safe to Portland, Place. They have now been with me two days. The poor Augustus is thoroughly sensible of his approaching dissolution. Yesterday while our Laura had fallen into a gentle stumber, which her extreme weakness obiiges her frequently to Solicit, the expiring youth addrested me in the most pathetic terms: " My amiable Miss Sidney, ” cried he, "show kind you are, who have been
nursed in the lap of prd|p98fe are capable of Such exa!ted humanity i your goodness towards such wretched, for!orn beings as us, has im prested in my heart the !iveliest sense of, gratitude, and the truest esteem. But alas! I see! al! your kind so!icitude is vain j exhausted nature Seeks that repose in the peacefu! grave, which tyrant man denies it here.
The !ot of my adored Laura and myself has, as you know, been far from a happy one j our youth has been spent in sorrow and, notwithstanding the consciousness that our misfortunes have not originated from any imprudence of our own, unless indeed our marriage can be called a crime, yet have we been unable to baffle with the venomed dart of adversity. I have endeavoured to resign myself to the will of the Supreme, and
have
 . 215
have bent with true fubmisiion to the Severity of my fate j confdous that impatient raurmur ings againsi: the all wisc decrees of Providence would but irritate that power, whose wrath I humbly deprecate. But I find now, my dear Madam, that a few days will end al my care;; death will, I know, though expected, prove n Severe blow to my tender Laura; her weakened constitution wi!i, I fear Sink under it, and my only hope is in the Soft confo!ation of your friendship towards her; that may produce Surprising effects. I need not, therefore, imp!ore you to exercise a!! that benevolence of soul, you are so much mistress of, in her favour j your friendship to the dear Sufferer will urge you, 1 am Sensible, to use every bam to her wounded mind. But O! my tender friend, I have a trust, a precious ttust, to depostte in your hands j you doubtless guess what I mean : will you accept the lovely, charge? will you preserve the tender branch from the frosts and chilling blasts of a malicious word?? you deign to supply the pace of her deceased parents? will! you, Miss. Sidney? And O Cecilia! he took my hand, anti I felt the warm tear of parental Solicitude drop ' from his eye! You need not doubt that I Said all I could, and promised everything, and hope t have Satisfied the fond anxiety of d parent. He seems astured that his poor Laura will! soon follow him j his strength is so Spent, and his breath so short, that it was not without many interruptions and pauses that he articu!ated what I have written; when I assured him of my protection of his Ayeet babe, a heavenly composure animated his expressive Seatures. O! Cecilia, that so much virtue, truth, delicacy, and honour, VOL. III 1\ should
220  .
should fall a Sacrifice to the tyranny of an unfeeling monster I But, good God! Cecilia, I am interrupted j they tell me the unhappy Montague is worse.
IN' CONTINUATION.
O! my friend, the unfortunate Augustus is no more; death has at length released his pure fou! I But I wist, if ray grief will! permit, inform you of every particu!ar. Upon hearing he was worse, I flew to obey the ca!! of friendship; I entered the apartment of my friend, and there hehe!d him strugg!ing with the grim mestenger of death; he was fpeechlefsj he grasped the hand of our lovely friend; he fixed his eyes upon her j he raised them up to heaven, as if to implore a blessing;; attempted to raise her hand to his lips, his strength failed j he sunk upon his pillow, and expired! The distrafted Laura screamed, threw herself upon his lifeless body, and fainted. It was with the greatest difficulty we were able to remove her, for in her agony she had clasped the body, with Such force, that it required the utmost violence to loose her hands. We however took advantage of her senseless state, to remove her from the melancho!y scene j for six hours, she was in successive fits; we have had, as you may suppose, every assistance j but the doctors dec!ared, that, unless she can be brought to shed tears, nothing can Save her: I am now writing by her bedside, where she lays in a perfect state of insenfi hlity. Cecilia, 1 must quit my pen to give vent to my over charged heart. But will resume it again upon any alteration.
O! Cecilia, what a melancholy pifturc does our poor fripnd present of the mutability of al!
earthly
I
*
 . s ai
earthly advantages! Behold her now, divested of > that delicate and refined understanding, for which ■ She was once so highly distinguished. Behold her now, in her present state of distraftion, and see what vain mortal shall dare to pride himself upon either wit, beautyj rank, or fortune. O! my friend! how would It pierce your sensibility to behold our dear Laura! distraftlon has succeeded her state of infensibility j she incessantly calls upon the name of her departed husband j and at times in the most pathetic words implores him to wait a short time longer. " O 1” cries the frantic creature, " my Augustus’ 1 my best, my only love! wait— — moment longer wait I and thy faithful Laura will, accompany thee. O 1 God J he hears me not — Cold!! dead! Ah! look, look !• yonder where he goes 1, See how he Smiles 1 he beckons me.” " Hark !” cries she, holding up her finger ^" hark! again do you not hear the music of the Spheres! See how he rides on yonder cloud 1 how beautiful he !ooks! 1 come,
I come Augustus, thy Laura comes !.’ Then, again, Cecilia, she cas upon thy name, her father’s, her mother’s, her child’s, Mr. White, that good friend, and my father, are gone to Mr. levifon’s, ter inform them of her dreadfu! Situation, and I momently expect their return. As to myself, unable longer to behold the cruel condition of my sweet friend, ihave stolen from the chamber of anguish, to vent my griefs to ray dear Cecilia. But I will! now return to the relief of poor Mrs. Morgan, who sits absorbed in sorrow by the bedside of the frantic Laura.
O! Cecilia! what a heart wounding scene have I been witness too! as I expected the gentlemen soon returned, and with them brought
k3 Mrs
a22  .
Mr. Levifon. Mrs. Leyjfon would have accoffit panied her husband, but the inte!!igence of her daughter’s unhappy Slate had thrown that unfortunate into convulsions. I however, introduced this once obdurate father to the presence of our poor distrafted friend; she was laying in bed, with her, eyes fixed on the deling. Mr. Levifon advanced to the bed Side, and gently took her hand, " Laura, ” cried he, " will! you not turn to me? wi!! you not look upon your repentant father ?” " Father !” cried the Sweet Sufferer" " I yes, I remember, I had once a Sather I But, do you know, that Sather struck a dagger to my poor montague’s heart? he forgot too poor Laura. But see that pretty angel, ’tis the Spirit of my Augustus! 1 hear his voice ealing on his Laura to follow.” O I” cries the now repentant Mr. levison, " my child! my dear lost child! look upon thy unhapy father. Laura, will you not deign to pardon me ?” ** O I miss Sidney” cried he, turning to me, " that I had but listened to your gentle advice; what reproaches had 1 then Saved myself I” - — —
In short, my Cecilia, however barbarous and bruta! this man’s conduct has been, yet is he at present an object of the greatest pity; his mind Seems thoroughly humbled.
Sir Richard Jebb has advised that she shall tomorrow be carried into the chamber where the
f
body of the deceased Augustus lays, in hopes that this stght may be a means of caustng her to shed tears.
.1 have j’ust heard that poor Mrs. Levifon is in a high fever. tomorrow I will renew my pen.
IN
 . 225
'r
IN CONTINUATION.
VI
W ELL, Cecilia, the doftor’s advice has Succeeded to our wishes. This morning our poor friend was carried into the chamber 6f death 5 the lid of the coffin was thrown oss. " Laura, my love, ” criedt, "would you wish to behold the body of thy Augustus ?” She looked wishfully at me, and Sighed. I drew her to the coffin j she clasped her hands in an agony of Sorrow; she gazed upon the lifeless body for a few mo * j burst into tears, and Surrk upon ray shoulder. This was what we wished; they were the first tears she had dropped Since the fatal moment of montague’s death. I suffered her to vent her grief without interruption j at !ength,. however, L thought it time to convey her from so mournful a Scene, f therefore took her hand :
"My Laura, ” cried I, " Suffer us to remove you from the melancholy object before you be not too far dejected j hitherto the affections of the heart have gained the ascendant over you j henceforth let the dictates of the mind be attended to
in their turn.... The most invidious stroke of
fortune is past j and you should be free to repair the breaches she has made in your Internal frame.” She heard me, Cecilia, with Silent attention; with clasped hands did She Sit gazing in speechlessi woe. I continued. " My i^aura, my disconso late friend! cease longer to grieve the departed Spirit of So dear a lover 1 methinks, I hear his voice calling on the mournful Laura, to suppress her sighs j cease to disturb his repose, who i himself at peace, and unacquainted with the heartfelt Sorrow of a desolate 1 ver j no longer wander
K 3 over
•s
2554  .
over past melancholy scenes: permit us to hope.” " " Ah !” interrupted she, " who talked of hope I Hope, the last pillow of the wretched, has fa!!en to the ground, despair has seized hod of my soul. But stop! — indeed, my poor head is quite gone! I think, I had a father once I a mother too I But no matter, they forgot their poor Laura !”
"No, my Laura, ” cried I, " they have not forgot you, they long to clasp you to their tender bosoms. — — Would you wish to see them " O! yes!” answered she, I would wish to recommend my little darling to their care 1 to implore their blessing ere I go 1” Upon saying which, we attempted to convey her from the dismal chamber. " Stay 1” said she; " then, turning to me with the most Supplicating look, Harriot 1 you love me! you are my friend I then do not deny me this last comfort I let me still gaze on his !ifelefs corpse, till the last fand be run! It will not be long ere then — I feel it here; ” cried she, laying her spread hand upon her heart; " and then, my friend, let one grave contain our remains.” — Her strength Sailed her, and she fainted..the dear Sufferer is now fa!!en into
a Sweet Sleep : and O! may it prove propitious! Sir Richard Says, everything depends upon the state in which she wakes. But I will! now go, and take a !ook at my Suffering friend,
Yours,,
Harriot Sidney.
LED
 i( 2*5
t
LETTER LXVII
'■ ' • ’
FROM THE SAME TO THE: SAME.
\
/^! Cecilia, Cecilia, the most disma! day has passed that ever dawned, wherein nature herself mourned for the !oveliest of her daughters! A sable mantle of couds hid the fun’s enlivening beams j the birds denied their usual Songs : need I say our beloved Laura is no more? •,
I concluded my last with informing you, that our future hopes' depended on the state in which she awoke. 1 entered her apartment, I, stole gently to her bed Side; she was steeping, and lay in this stumber for a quarter of an hour longer, when she awoke, and complained of thirst : the doctor was summoned, he looked at her, and shook his head. " Doctor” ” the dear angel, do not flatter my friends, I feel my end approabhing, the pulse of life is nearly stopped! But, Harriot, my love, I would wish to See, before I die, my helpless babe, to bestow on her a dying mother’s last bequest, my blesting I You told me too, my friend, I might hope to receive the forgiveness of iny honoured parents! where are they ?” My Laura, ” cried I, scarce able to articulate, your mother is not well, and therefore cannot attend you j but your father longs to asture you, how dear you still are to his heart.” " Well then my friend,, request him to enter, before death closes my eyes for ever; as to my dear mother, we shall
meet
%
22d  .
meet, I hope, in happier realms!” At that moment the afflicted father entered, bringing with him the sweet Cecilia: Mr. Levifon approached the Suffering angel, he knelt by the bed, she held out her hand, My father, ” ^ cried she, " will you deign to pardon your poor Laura! will! you bury with her, in the humble grave, all her failings? may I hope to receive my parent’s Biefling and forgiveness ?” " O! my child, my Laura!
it is thy barbarous father who should kneeling implore your forgiveness. — O! what a heart had I, to he deaf to the pleadings of my only child 1” O! my father, ” interrupted the dying Saint, " do not upbraid yourself, everything happens for the best, recommend my duty and asseftion to my honoured mother! And now, my Harriot, bring me my child, raise me up a little higher.” She then embraced her sweet infant, who Sobbed as if its little heart would break. The lovely angel threw her arms round her mother’s neckj our dear Laura held her babe c!afped for Some moments to her maternal bosom. ’ " Ah !” cried she, thou dear pledge of an unfortunate love I thou dear resemblance of my adored Augustus! must I leave thee behind me ^ must thou be exposed to the miseries of the world? Alas 1 thy unfortunate mother can do nothing for thee !” — Sir, ” cried'she, addressing her father, " may I hope my child will find a parent in you? The protection of my Harriot was the only bkfling Heaven allowed me to hope for m her Savour. But now, I trust, my still dear parent will receive to his bosom the unfortunate offspring of the ill-fated Laura I And may heaven, which abandoned me to the deepest affllftions, vouchsafe to look with an eye of kindness on' this unhappy orphan! and may She never know Sorrows equal to those which
have
*

 . 227
have put a period to the days of her wretched ' parents !” " If she lives, my Harriot, ” continued she, turning to me, " acquaint her with the woes of the ill-fated authors of her being! let her drop some tears to the death of her loved father! may his memory be dear and rcfpeftable to her I and may her mother’s serve as a melancholy and useful leston to her, to avoid the rock on which the unfortunate Laura spit iharriot, my kind, my sympathetic friend accept my grateful thanks for all your tenderness j take this, and preserve it, till! my darling girl • shall be old enough to feta just value upon it.” Saying which, she took from her bosom a miniature of the unfortunate Montague. I took it, and pres fed it to my dips, I could not Speak : " Thank you my friend, for this mark of your esteem to my departed Augustus.” She paused j " Remember me to my Cecilia, tel! her to my latest breath I never ceased feeling the most lively friendship for her.” Her strength now visibly declined J she took a tender and melancholy leave of her faithful Mrs. Morgan j she repeatedly kisted and blested her sweet child, nor would suffer us to Separate her from the sobbing babe. Mr. lcvison, tivat wretched father, knelt, stupi sied in sorrow j a Solmn Silence ensued, tears were the only interpreters of our grief: at !ength she comp!ained of being thirsty, she begged for water, but before she could take it to her lips a kind of convulston seized her. The now distrafted father started from his kneeing posture, and in a fit of frenzy seized his expiring daughter in his arms, and before he could be disengaged from his hod, her Spotlefs Soul had taken its flight to its congenial place.
To
22s  .
To describe our grief upon this shocking occasion is impossible! The loved idea of this helpless pair ever intrudes itself into my imagination! 1, however, try to comfort myself with the thought of their having attained those blissful scenes, early virtue, innocence, and sorrow, have entit!ed' them to! Fancy you' behold the blooming couple encircled with never fading wreaths of glory, and blested with Supreme delight: these are the Sentiments I nourish, to dispel the dark clouds of melancholy, which the loss of Such inestimable friends occastoned. And thus, Cecilia, should you heal the wounds of your heart, for the loss of the tender companion of your bosom'; we should confider, that in a Situation like her’s all happy, nefs is fled, reasoning becoms vain, and evei| arguments of religion have but little weighty i he dear Sufferer embraced death as her only |friend, Which she thought might terminate, but cdiild not augment her misery. It will be unnecestkry to comment further on this mournful event to a person of your fenstbility j your grief must be allowed its course j and in time, no doubt, proper rq fleftions, which arise Spontaneousty in a well form^ ed mind, will blunt the edge of grief. — Adieu:; the bodies of our dear friends will on Thursday next be interred in the family vault of Mr. Levifon, with every funeral honour. Mr. Levifon mr. White, my father, Mrs Morgan, and myself, will attend their dear remains to' Northamptonshire.
Your ever affectionate,
Tho’ afflicted,
Harriot Sidney,
f I N I Sv
