T H E 
t
f
MIDEN AUNT.
WRITTEN BY A LADY.
*
N THREE VOLUMES.
V O L 1.
m
%
L O N D O Ns
INTED FOR J. BEW,. TATER noster ROW
MDCGLXXVI.
ff
»
4
N
i -
>
‘
(
i
/
i T H E
i
! MA1DE.N AUNT.
i
i
K
I VOL. L
►
t
K
.ct
\ r; A
ap
t *
A
h
!
<
¥
- I - III I ' -- -- - — r I ~r r i ^
y
advertise me n t.
^VITH a heart aiixioufly trefub ling for the success it mav meet with, does the authoress venture this, her first performance, to the public eye. Conscious how little gratification the reader, who delights in the marvellous, will find in this simple narrative, she dares not hope applause. Yet, as the
incidents it contains, as well as the
/
sentiments, are strictly virtuous and delicatd; and as the characters
A z ars
V '! »
are not unworthy imitation, She presumes to recommend it to the protection of the amiable osher ■own sex; and to that candid indulgence with which men of taste and genius peruse the produc, of a female pen.
/
t
/
THE
ff
THE
MAIDEN AUNT.
LETTER L
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T o
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
'ft
Lucy, Woodpark.
ivl Y dear Lucy, surely I am peculiarly unfortunate! some malignant. planet shed its influence at the hour of my nativity, or why Should every Scheme of Selicity be thus Sruftrated? no Sooner do I indulge a pleasing prospect:, but Some unsoreseen event hap
X Ti
THE MAIDEN AUH.D
pens to cloud it; the April fun lhine as more permanent than my hopes. — • but why do I call myself unfortunate? why repine at what perhaps, (nay certain) is for the best;. Providence undoubtedly sees too great a Share of impatience in my dite>ostdon, and takes this method to correct; it, or as I am Sometimes inclined to think, soreseeing greater missortunes are my lot, wisely and kindly has from my insancy been inuring me to them; and Surely Sew of my age has received more of these painsul lessons— — two years old to be deprived of an ami cable Mother, was an irretrievable loss; ’tis true, I was then too young to be Sensible of it, but it was not the less great; the best; of Fathers, whilst; he lived, endeavoured to Supply both
parents
 . 3
parents; but alas! my friend, maternal care and tenderness is best calculated to form the mind of a daughter, there is an awe mixed with our love to a Father, that inspires us with more re spect than confidence, and makes us listen to his precepts with more duty
m
than delight. But a parent of our own Sex, appears rather as a friend; we improve'by her instructions without considering them as Such, and much more by her example; every action is a lefiton, and we insenfibly imbibe her very Sentiments. these were my youthsul reflections, when at your house I shared with you the benefits of the good Mrs. beville’s advice; how happy were those days; days ever to be regretted! but the death of my dear Father put a period to them when I
B 2. was
4  .
was but fourteen; alas, my Lucy! the recollection of that misfortune even now fills me with horror: In him was centred all my filial affection, and when he was torn from me, I thought myself abandoned to the wide world, without support or protection as my brother was but two years older than myself, you know how nearly I escaped finking under this affliction, which I am at this moment renewing. I know not how J Sell into this melancholy Subject, unless from the present violent depression of my Spirits, it has insenfibly led me from my purpose, which was to insorm you
05 the reason I had Spr the assertion, at the beginning of my letter, that I was peculiarly unsortunate; and I am Sure is yoia consult your own gentle heart, ‘
it
 . 5
ic will allow it was not ill-founded. Confider, my sweet friend, confider the pleasure I expected in Seeing you aster an absence of Sour years; during which your mamma’s ill health has confined you; now when that and every other impediment Seemed' to be removed, when I was anticipating the satissaction which a Sew days was to realise, think what I Selt when my guardian.lthis morning, on clara’s insorming him of your obliging inten tion.y, reply’d “T am very Sorry, my dear, to disappoint you and Emma of the company of your agreeable visitor; but it happens very unluckily, I am obliged to Set out for London on Monday, and was just going to give you notice of it, for as I lliall stay Some months, I cannot leave you
B 3 behind;
6  .
behind; will you, Miss Villers, forgive me laying you under the painful necessity of acquainting your friend with this, and apologise to her for my thus, spoiling your party, which no
•
thing but a positive engagement should have made me do.” I bowed, but felt the too ready tear starting from my eyes; which Mrs. Watson observing, cried “Fie, my dear, don’t be uneasy, the amusement of the town will make you ample amends, (I shook my head) besides, continued she, is miss Beville will Savour you with her company, the Spring will be a better season, and your brother’s being here will be quite' the thing.” — “My brother, madam ” — and turned my eagerly inquiring eyes on my guardian.
'— “Why yes, I think its almost time
for
for him to return, as he will then b.c. nearly of age; but we will talk of that another time — at present I think you Should not delay writing, as Miss Beville may be preparing for her journey, ” — I arose to obey him, but could not help observing, that Clara Spoke not about edmund’s return, I believe She thinks as I do, that their childifti sondness wlren he was at Woodpark, is the reason her Sather has kept him abroad these three years. My brother, Lucyis an amiable youth, but in point of Sortune no match for miss watson, who being an heiress, will have an immense Sortune, and I cannot blame her parents Setting the higheit value on her; however, as
o ' ^
this attachment has doubtless long'
O
since ceased, I may again experience
B 4 the
4
I
the tenderness of fraternal affection, unless all my wiffies are to be fruitless, — and now, my good girl, will you, help to eonsole me,, by promising to join us in the Spring? nothing but that can in any degree eompensate for the delay;, as to my London jour iie}", it rather gives me pain; I was there two years ago, it was then indifferent to me — but no w I have a dread on my Spirits,. I can by no means account for — this is the most gloomy letter you ever received from me, for though" Seldom lively,. I am generally tranquil. — Heaven preserve to
me my peace and Serenity of mind,,
/
which I esteem one of its choicest; gists. — Adieu, my Lucy; our stay here will be too Short for me to receive an answer, as Soon as we are Settled in
town
X...WX..X. y
town, you may expect to hear from your affectionate
EMMA VILLERS.
P. S. Clara begs me to affure you, Ihe is much chagrined at this event, as She was in hopes to have rivalled me with my Savourite friend, in revenge, Ihe Says, for my Healing the hearts of all her’s — fly is a fluttering creature — once more adieu.
t
I
^ B 5 LET
ft
A
0
\
10  .
LETTER II
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T o
MISS LUCY BEVILLE. Dear Lucy, St. james’s street.
We did not fet out for London
till Thursday succeeding the appointed Monday — Eager as my guardian was to be there, he could not well appear impatient, as Mrs. watfon’s brother and nephew came, as they often do, to Spend a Sew days with us; little inclmation as J had for the journey, the delay was unwelcome to me, as those visits are
always
JL n XL ivl n ± JU JL rxwjini. la
always productive of little altercations between Mrs. Watson, Mr. Harley and me, the conclusion of which generally is, that your poor friend is condemned as an unperfuade s able girl. As to the young man, I really believe he is concerned for the vexation this affair occasions me. He is perfectly amiable; I never saw such gentleness of manners in one of the sex— — have a sincere friendship for him, but none of that warmth of as section, which I believe necessary to happiness in the married state, nor is 'his address calculated to melt the ice,
I
which has hitherto inveloped my heart; ever polite, obliging and insinuating, and particularly So to me, yet there are no Symptoms of passion; he is sond of my company, but ftiews no
B 6 emotion
IZ X n JL AUIN 1.
#
emotion of joy at meeting, or despair at parting — his tongue says more than his eyes; in Short, Lucy, novice as I am in this science, I cannot be deceived; I am. convinced his sentiments for, me perfectly tally with mine for him, tho’ his friends have persuaded him to the contrary. I was dressing when their carriage Hoped at the door — Clara ran into my room. —
“Expect to be scolded, Emma, nay, beat, for Fm very angry.” — “Bless me, my dear, what is the matter ?” “O no small matter I allure you, here is a flop put to our London journey,, for I know not how long — nay, nay, look as unconscious as you please, you are the cause of this disappointment; and how do you mean to"make me amends ?” “Dear Clara, let me
4 under the
MAIDEN AUNT, 13
imderfland you” — “Why then under -- stand that my cousin Ned and my uncle Harley are come; I suppose, hearing of our intended expedition, they fet off post haste to secure at least the promise of your fair hand; as they cannot in reason expect without some engagement, that you will ever bring your heart from those dear regions of love and gaiety, — now if you do not intend to make them one of your best curtfies, and say you are all obedience; I advise you as a friend, to arm yourjels with Sortitude, to withstand the irresistible eloquence, or increasing persecutions of the old man; — as to his Son, you will have nothing to encounter, bujt his sighs, which are the most inoffensive things in nature; I am Sure they would
rather
- M J. X..A J.TX J. X .1. J, ^ .txwx'i o; »
rather cool my heart than warm it; give me the youth all rapture and desire, my Emma! but there you and I are too opposite beings, I often wonder Ned has not met with success; he is So like you in dispofition, one might take him for your brother, rather than Edmund, who is all animated, but he may be quite altered, hey ho! — we used to be very happ)% Emma, when he was here.” I waited in expectation of her being out of breath, but had not time to ren

ply. when a Servant entered to tell us our company was desired below. - — I laughed at Clara, and advised her to sit down and compose hersels,
r
as I thought Ihe might want Some rest, after her long harangue, besore ihe paid her compliments to her
uncle.
 . 15
uncle.' — “O never fear my dear, though I believe I shall welcome him with an ill grace.” ^ — Our conversations during his stay, my dear Lucy, are so much of a piece with many others I ^ have troubled you with, that you will readily forgive my omitting them, * they left me as resolute as ever, to give my hand and heart together, or to keep them for ever; but I talked so long to Mr. Harley, that I fancy he will on his return home, deliberate maturely whether he is in love or not. You Smile, my Lucy, but believe me this is a point we osten deceive ourselves in — besore we are acquainted with the pastion, we mistake every shadow Sora reality, and too osten make ourselves wretched by our credulity. — For my own part, I
have
N.
i6  .
have seen so many instances of this., that I shall perhaps live and die deliberating, but even that is better than finding my mistake wffien its too late. — Clara tells me Ihe has a presentement, that some pretty fellow will at one glance put an end to my doubts, for that stie is certain, when I do love, it will be to excess; I am of her opinion; that is the last part of it, and tremble for the event. As to loving at first sight, I have no idea of it; I tell her its only such' giddy girls, as herself that are so taken in.; stie Shakes her head, and Says nothing but my own insenfibility could make me blind to her character and Sentiment. What can stie mean, Lucy?
I am at a lost. Surely stie does not
think of Edihund! — but to proceed,
the
jl XI jc* XVX XI JL LI IX U 1. If
the two Harleys accompanied us some miles on our journey; at parting, the young one kissed my hand in silence, but the old gentleman cried, “Well, fair perverse one, will you let us go without any hopes.” “Indeed, Sir, ican not ‘‘deceive you, I have the higheil: respect for you, and friendship for your fon, ” — “I don’t believe a word ont— — you respect me, be my daughter — Ned will "make a good husband, or he Should not have you— — yes, do sweet smiling good girl, do say yes.” — “Dear, Sir, you diffrefs Miffi Villers “distress her, why don’t you Speak for yoursels then,, Such. saint hearted Sellows now a days,. no wonder the girls stight you, why, is I was of your age, I would distress her from morning tonight, is it does
distress,
3 5 in II ivi a1 JJ il, in A U IN 1 •
diftrefsher, tillffie consented.” ‘‘ that’s right, uncle, says Clara, no wmmaii ■ could withstand that;, for if stie was averse at first, stie would certainly yield, to be rid of your importunities— — aye, niece, any how, foi got her; but look ye, Emma, turning to me, don’t go to encourage any of your London sparks, for if I hear of any one that’s busy about you, wc will fet out for town, and if Ned won’t cut his throat, I will, ” — and’ concluding with air oath, took his leave— — saw Mrs. Watson was displeased. “I am Surprised, miss Villers; you cannot like my nephew, you Say your affections are disengaged — and I don’t know where you will find a worthier young man, and it would make his Sather So happy, who loves you as
his •
 . 19
his own child.” — “Yes, indeed, said my guardian, with earnestness, it is, my dear ward, an unexceptionable offer, he is an agreeable lad, and will have a good estate, or I would not press you to accept it.” — “Nor I, said Mrs. Watson, for I do not wisti my nephew’s happiness more than emma’s.” “I am very Sorry, madam, I cannot oblige
V
you, and all my friends, who So kindly interest themselves in my welsare, but I stiould injure Mr. Harley, as well as myseis, is I Should comply.” Clara Saw I was chagrined, and endeavoured to relieve me. — “Your own mildness, my dear Emma, occasions you this vexation, had I been in your place, I would Soon have tired the old gentleman of his impertinent visits; ridiculous! to tease a person to love; I
am
20  .
am surprised my dear papa and mamma will countenance such an absurdity; but come, let us forget it, and do my dear girl Shake that gloom off your sweet Sace, or you might have staid at Woodpark, for all the conquests you’ll make; and I hope to hear you carry down a train of beaux, to let my uncle See how little we regard his threats; ned’s passions are not violent enough to make me apprehend anything from him, and is the old Grecian Should think proper to challenge them all, it will afford us high entertainment, ha! ha! ha! I think I See him in the old rusty armour that hangs in his hall, tottering to the place of combat.” Thus did the dear rattling girl strive to make us chearsul,. and was in Some degree.,
success
 . 21
I
i.fuccefsfiil, for our journey was more agreeable than I expected; — we arrived in St. james’s ftreet on Friday, and every leisure hour these two days has been employed in Scribbling to my Lucy; on Seeing the enormous length •os this epiille, i’m amazed to think how I could waste so much paper and ' time, without one incident to fill it up; I pardon you, my Sweet friend, is you burn it besore you have read the first fide; for my own part, I have not patience to peruse, .nor conscience to Send So much stupidity, as i’m Sure this Sheet must contain; but I am too impatient Sora letter to neglect Sending you a direction, which ds the very purpose of this, unless it, be to present my best respects to Mrs.
Beville,
22  .
\
Beville, and repeat the afisurances of the unalterable esteem and affection of my dear lucy’s,
EMMA VILLERS.
Edward watfon’s, ef(j;
St. james’s streel
t
A
LET
»
MAIDEN AUNT. 23
LETTER IIL
MISS LUCY BEVILLE,
T O
MISS EMMA VILLERS.
Dear Emma, Wefl grove. ^
My dear emma’s letters, are the
greatest: pleasures Lucy can receive in her absence;; then could Ihe seem to think the length of her last: required an apology : were they really as insipid as fiie calls them, their coming from her is sufficient to make
them valuable to me; but this is so
% \
far from being the cafe, that were I the fiightest: acquaintance, instead
of
24 the maiden AUN.D
of the most affectionate friend, I could not have a more agreeable entertainment than her correspondence. You, my dear Miss Villers, whose partiality to the writer, can make you desirous of letters, which both
ft
my situation and talents must render i quite destitute of either incident or Instruction, might easily conceive the satisfaction such epistles as yours must afford a young creature like me, whose retired life, makes the most trivial occurrences of the world appear extraordinary; were you not so resolutely bent on jfhutting your eyes and ears to your own merits — you know my dear mamma’s particular notion in regard to education, and the pains She has taken to keep me as much as possible in ignorance of the vices and
follies
 . 25
ft
follies of the world, as thinking the longer the mind is engrossed by innocent ideas, the greater horror it will feel at guilt. — In consequence of this,
. my reading has been limited to a small library, myself confined always to this solitude, and every friendship discouraged, but that with my dear Emma, who my mother confiders as another child. — The dear woman has done all in her power to console me for my first Severe disappointment, by promising that I shall attend you in the Spring, Which fly joins with Mrs. watson, in thinking a much better time; — it may be So, but on this occasion I could not help Seeling, that the present was preserable to the Suture; besides, what signifies the Sea son, ’twas my friend, not the beauties vol. I. ^ C of
x6  .
of Woodpark I wanted to see; however, there is no remedy I find but patience.
You will no doubt be surprised, my dear friend, to hear that I am this winter to Spend a month at
R -- -- --, as you never heard me Speak
of any acquaintance there; but about a week ago we palled a day at Sir John huffey’s, the only place almost we visit, and met there with Mrs. and Miss Walter, distant relations of Lady huftey’s; — they were particularly civil to me — miss Walter expressed her aftoniftiment that fiie had
never Seen me at R -- -- -- -, as we live
only ten miles distant; on my answer ing, that I never lest my mamma, ftie Smiled, Said ftie pitied my confinement
 . 37 finement, and willed much I could
V
spend a month with her, adding, they ffiould be very gay this winter; as ffie seems very good-natured, and I really believe has a regard for me, I acquiesced in her wiffies, and said I was sorry it was not in my power. — Well, but suppose my mamma and lady H — - interceed, Surely Mrs. Beville will not resuse to Spare you So ffiort a time, and So Small a distance! ’tis really burying of you; — let us try however. In short, my dear Emma, my mamma was not proos against ail their inrreaties, especially when ffie
0
Saw I interested mysels in their success— — propose mysels much pleasure in this visit; that and. your letters will make the winter glide away quicker than it otherwise would; do not then,
C 2 my •
38 I JH JB, m A 1 JJ II in A U in 1.
my deaf Emma, deprive me of the fatissaction your leisure hours can afford, but write me an account of all you See, do, and think; as everything you are concerned in, is interesting' to me, and your manner of relating makes it still more So; you will not expect: regular answers from me, as I can haye but little to communicate, and my ideas are as confined as my situation; but you may depend on it, whenever I think Lean fill hals a sheet of paper, be the Subject ever So trifling, I shall indulge mysels in the pleasure of writing to my dearest friend, depending on her kind allowances.
-. My mamma just now came into
my rooru. — I was going to call you
down.
T H jh MAIDEN AUNT. 29
down, Lucy, but continue writing you cannot be better employed than corresponding, with miss Villers, her letters will bring you in Some degree acquainted with the gay world,, into which she is introduced; and indeed I do not know a perlbn I Should preser to her, to give you these insormations; — her good sense will place every object: in its proper light, and her being So nearly of your own age, will make her perhaps more regarded; for young people are too apt to confider old ones as rigid monitors, who being past the relish osplea sure themselves, would deter others from it, by painting the consequences in too gloomy colours; your Emma, my dear child, has a Solidity poftefied by Sew of her age, this must Supply
C 3 the
3® MAIDEN AUNT.
the place of experience, which is all She wants; her rectitude of manners,, and delicacy of sentiment, are worthy
ft
imitation; — I have known her heart from her insr, n: y, and must be thc roughly convinced of her merit, fiii.ee I propose her to rny Lucy as a pattern, vv'liich is strictly sollaw’d, V ill render you, my dear, deserving my tenderness,
>
and the esteem of the world; — May
the Almighty bless you both, my dear
children, ” Said the good woman, the
tears in her eyes, “and make you
•happy when I am no more able to advise
you.” She lest me too much as
Sected to answer; — I must conclude,
to go to this worthy parent, who waits
%
tea. — Surely, my friend, when you See the value that is Set on your correspondence.
TIIE 'MAIDEN AUNT. 31
/.'ciidcnce, you will, at every opportunity, oblige with your letters,
/
1
Your afiectionate
k
.
LUCY BEVILLE,
I
P, S, My bell respects attend Mr. and mrs.watson; and mv acknow ledgements to miss Watson for her obliging remembrance; — Illiould have congratulated you on the hopes of your brother’s return, but as you Say
K
no more of ir, I am fearful its uncer to(in.
9
ft
\
I
; C 4 LET.
9
. M
32 inn. ivl A 1 L Ji JN AUN 1.
ft
s
LETTER IV
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T O
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
Dear Lucy, St. jamesvftreet.
J Should be ungrateful for your kind
partiality, and totally unworthy the favourable opinion your good mamma
I
entertains of me, were I to neglect: any opportunity of cultivating both to the utmost of my power; praise will, I be
«
always operate more powersully on a generous mind, than reproaches, or even the belt advice; we naturally, when applauded, inquire of our hearts
whether
whether we deserve it; is we do, it makes us chcrilh those qualitiesnvhich we find we are distinguiflied for, with the mote care;.. is,. on the contrary,, We find a deficiency, we eagerly Set about acquiring in reality, those perfections which the partiality of our friends imputed’ to us, besore they can. discover their mistake— — myfels come' under this lafl predicament; but tho’ my own consciousness of desect in.; those particulars Mrs. Beville So kindly applies to me, in one sense leftbns the value of her commendations, if enhances it in another, and I Seel as. much pleasure in being indebted to - = her tenderness, as her judgement; in other words, 1 receive as a gift, what Ihe boftows as a debt; but I will now endeavour to make them my due, and
C 5 the:
■ ■ ft
the approbation which was my incitement, shall be my reward.
»
The last time I was In town, I believe I gave you, my dear, an account of most of the public places. So Shall: pass them over in silence, except upon particular occasions;; — have been perpetually engaged ever since I wrote last, and still continue So; you must theresore, my Lucy, take a coliection of Scraps Sora letter, as it will otherwise be impossible for me to write; — I am Sensible this method of corresponding will be liable to a thousand absurdiries, but rs you can pardon * them, every leisure moment Shall be
devoted to you.
Mr. watson has a large acqualn tance — but the only Samily we are on
an
an intimate footing with, is Sir Harry beaumont’s; we are continually together, rather more indeed than I could wish. — I have no talent at description, or I would draw you the pictures of this Baronet, his lady and daughter— —

as it is impossible to Sorm any idea of them, witlicut, and as they will 1 suppose be the principle persons in our drama this winter, I want to have vou acquainted with them — I have a
A
great mind to attempt it notwith ftaikliiig the above objection, which on reflection is So weak I am ailiamed of it; for why Should I, because not mistress of the Subject, from a Soolifli stiiime, or rather pride, be entirely Silent on it; and to you, my laicy, who are only hals a critic, and that hals which our moderns Seem to const
C 6 ' der
der as no part of the character; I mean finding out beauties, forgetting that criticism should be the handriiaid of genius
ff
f
^ To deck her charms and maiie her more belov’d
ft
?
As my savouritejpope Says. — So much by way of digression.; and now for Sir Harry, who at between fifty and sixty is not only a most graceful figure, but really handsome, and would be
I
ilill more So,, was not the natural benevolence of his countenance, almost lost in' a certain air of stateliness, that diffuses itsels through his whole person and manner, and excites rather our respect than love — Sometimes this cloud will vanisti Sora moment, and he wi I be all himsels, but just as ‘ he is beginning to be all we could wisti,.
I he
V. ■
he seems to recollect; himself as if’ he had receded from his dignity,, and again (if I may be allowed the exprestion) veils his virtues. he is, however, generally admired — Mrs.. Watson says he is “quite the man of fashion.” I should be the last to contradict her, as I have the honour to be a Savourite; he is polite to every one, but to me he is Something more — he lays aside in Some degree his consequence, and addrestes. me with the ten4erness of a parenthe had a stight acquaintance; with my Sather, and compliments me on the antiquity of my Samily; which I suppose is the reason. of his particular attention to me; for tho’ postested of a prodigious Sortune, his only pride is that of blood, the most rediculous of all.
prides,
9
prides. — I have often been surprised to See this weakness So pravalent among men of the best: understandings, who despistng the gists of person, Sortune, or abilities, value themselves on their arms and pedigree; a mere ideal advantage, from which they can neither receive themselves, nor communicate to others, any real benefit. — You think. I have Sorgot lady Beaumont — I have not; but stnd mysels So desective in Sir Harry, that I despair of taking a iikeness of her ladyship, who is one of your no characters, tho’ I am far from allowing the justice of that Satire, when applied to the Sex; indeed, I despife ail general reflection, which argue either a wtak head, bad heart, or Small penetration in the Selection of friends; this last: caveat I put in for
the
the sake of some who without either
4
the first or second defect, are severe on women; perhaps even that censure they may think too hard; but they must put up with that or contracted Sentiments, which they please, I can » let them off easier— — I beg Lady beaumont’s pardon for neglecting her So long — ftie is Several years younger than Sir Harr}^, but in my opinion, too old Sora toast, though I believe Jhe dissents from me in this particular; to do her justice. She hao been, I believe, a beauty, and is stili a fine woman, which, my dear Lady Beaumont, is ail I can Say for you, aster calling the old gentleman’s behaviour stately, I cannot distinguish his lady’s, with a milder term than haughty; indeed Ihe Seems engrossed
by
by her own fnperior importance,, and her endeavours to make the whole, company sensible of if; I believe her only partiality, (self excepted) is for her daughter, - Miss Letitia, who copies her in every respect; but I think exceeds her in vanity and, affectation,. from having a Smaller portion of sense — fiie is a Ihowy woman, but does not please me, for though her eyes are Sufi of fire, her Sace wmnts. Sensibility; this Some would think a contradiction; perhaps you do not understand me, though I do mysels.. — As to her. conversation, it is, a collection of Englifti nothings, and French phrases; an air of allured vivacity, and' a Smile which discovers a fine Set of teeth, makes it pass current in Some company for witbut as I am. asraid
it
t
 . 41.
it will not appear to that advantage on paper, shall not give you a specimen— — me \ am ashamed to See how glibly my pen has run on this Subject:, I am searsul all my lucy’s candour will not excuse the asperity bs my remarks; — I will be more guarded for the Suture, - and never write of a person who has just of sended me; I own miss Beaumont has; I will tell you how. — She was this morning walking with Clara
-- --, and two or three beaux in
the Park; I happened to Say lire look’d warm; ftie replied, “I am sorry I cannot return the compliment — I wonder miss Villers, as you are
so pale, you do not always rouge.” —
/
The word always was Spoke in a manner that left no doubt of her meaning;
1 am
42  .
I am 'Sure I wanted no rouge at that moment; I could not help replying, perhaps too pertly — if I ever used it, madam, I undoubtedly shall always, as you are Sensible there would then be a necefiity for it. My Speech was ■as Slrongly accented as ■ hers, and seem’d to give her as much mortification. Clara applauded my Spirit by a look, and the gentlemen Said So many civil things on the occasion, that I believe miss Beaumont repented her witticism. However, it disconcerted me all the morning Clara Saw, and tried to dissipate my chagrin, by Saying, fie, Emma, this
rouge Seems not at all to agree with you, I never Saw you besore hurt
at a jefi. miss B -- -- knows you too
well, Serioufiy to recommend it to you;
besides,
 . 43
besides, it is evident, your complexion cannot be altered for the better; it will be time enough to paint, when you have been a belle these ten years, and raked away the natural delicacy
of your Ikin — ivlils B -- interrupted
this by afliing her, is Ihe called rouge paint; and a dialogue ensued on the Svibject, which I neither engaged in, nor attended to. You See, Lucy, what a novice I am in the beau monde, nor do I much wish to be initiated into its mysteries— — letter has been quite taken up with the Beaumonts; there are two Sons, both younger than the daughter, one of twenty-five, expected home from his travels every day, the other about eighteen or nineteen, at oxsord. I have not heard from Edmund for Some time.
Mr.. Wall
_ «
' .
Mr. Watson studiously Ihuns any dis courfe of his return; I once alked him whether my brother was in. formed of his intentions? he answered, No, and begged I would not mention it, as it depended on an event at present uncertain; what can this event be? clara’s marriage perhaps! the caution in regard to my acquainting him with it was unnecessary, as I do not know how to direct for him,. The last letter I received, was dated Venice, which he told me he was on the point of leaving, though he knew not where he should go, and complained heavily of his banishment ftom his country and me; I fear, Lucy, that is not all; poor Edmund 1 Heaven grant my apprehensions are groundless. I wilh you, my Lucy,.
au
 . 45
all, and more than all, the pleasures
you expect: at R -- -- --. May Miss
Walter deserve the approbation of a heart like yours, but know her well, my sweet girl, before you give her a place in it; your tenderness would be hurt to be obliged to banish her — good minds, and innocent ones, ought to be very circumspect: in their choice of friends, their own openness makes them not suspect: others of more reserve; ' they are deceived, and the consequences are osten Satal: I would not, my dear, on any account give you a gloomy picture of the world, it has a bad effect in general; but I shall not at present invelligate this truth; I wish to warn, not to discourage you; — miss Walter may be amiable, but lire may not — you are too prudent I know to Show her my letters.
46 1 ti t. ivl A J. U L JN A U M 1.
but do not Hart when I beg you will be careful she does not read them wdthout your leave. I know, my Lucy, Will be hurt at my suspecting her new acquaintance of such a mean ness; but it is I fear thought a trifle, even by those who are in esteem in the world; Sorgive me, my dear, and continue your confidence in me; I shall rejoice to hear Miss Walter is worthy your regard, as a friend is a real acquisition; you will, I dare Say, think I have been very negligent in not wteiting besore; but believe me, I began answering your letter a Sew days aster I received ir, and have not omitted an hour that I had an opportunity to Scribble; but we have Such a multiplicity of engagements, that I am Satigiied to death, and osten beg to be excused;
Vmf
 . 47
but Clara, who enjoys the scene, will not stir without me; and we keep such late hours, that there is no defrauding Morpheus either night or morning, so that all my writing time is stole from the toilette — there are, .1 believe, few in this metropolis that would spare any of the time allotted to that important duty, (as they call it) observe, Lucy, is I make no conquest;, I stiall attribute it to the neglect; of my dress, and consequently come cn you so r amends. You See, my dear, I am grown quite a trifter, but the air of this city is insectious. Adieu! — present my dutisul respects TO our good mamma, and write Soon to
Yours affectionately,
EMMA VILLERS.
48 the maiden AUNL
ft
letter V
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T O
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
t
Dear Lucy, St. james’s hreet
apprehensions were prophetic 1
my brother too surely loves Miss
watson; though the impression was
made So young, it has not been in the power of time, absence, or a variety of objects to efface it; I have received a letter from him, where Clara ap pears almost in every line, he excuses his particular inquiries, by proses fions of fnendffiip; but when he afts
the
 , 49
the situation of her heart, he is sensible that this difguise will not hide his passion; he owns it, Lucy, but in such terms as almost; diltract: me. — His letter was brought me this morning just: after breakfast:; I opened it, looked it over, and after presenting his respects to the family, precipitately retired : I then attentively perused the contents, and gave a free vent to my tears; I was reading these lines, “Pity me, my dear sister, and do not too severely condemn this unfortunate passion;; saw its hopeleflhefs at the first:, and though the charming Clara gently heard and soothed my
hopes and wishes, yet the moment
_ _______________
I lest Woodpark, I saw the folly and vanity of the pursuit; and determined to desist— — vol. I. D Alas,
yo  .
Alas, how unequal to the talk — I Ilrug 'gled, my Emma, struggled with all my strength, but the painfulnefs of the efforts, only convinced me how deeply I was entangled; I yielded to the impulse, and it is now become neceltary to my existence; all me not to cqnquer it — it is impossible, I must; cherish it to the last moment of my life — tell me then, my dear, my only confidant, tell me all you know of this Idol of my soul, despise not your bro. there for the request, nor think you betray the secrets of your friend, by com • municating them to me.; her welfare is uot, cannot be So dear to you as to me; tell me too, though my heart trembles to alk it, if Ihe has engaged her affections; if so, though I must still adore her, it shall be in lilenee, and at
this
 . 31
%
this distance— — will I indulge myself in the delight of feeing her,
but love her with the purity of an
_ }
angel.” I had read this paragraph, : and was exclaiming, alas, my Edmund, my unhappy brother! when Clara entered my closet,! put the letter in my bosom, but fly had heard my expres fion, and Saw my tears, the vivacity of her countenance was clouded,, flic threw hersels in a chair, and cried,
“edmund is ill!” — “Indeed, my dear, your are mistaken, he is in good health.” “What then is the matter? Said the dear girl, advancing and throwing her arm round my neck, but I will See mysels, Said She, taking up the cover of his letter, which lay in my lap; — she Seemed disappointed. Will you not let me read ffie letter?
D 2 You
52  .
You ffiould read my heart, but indei Emma, you do not treat me lik friend, ” “Ido indeed Clara! ” “Tt why all this reserve?? ffiould none between friends, wdiat fecr can there be in a brother’s letter, 1 lides I want to know what makes y unhappy.” “Nothing in particular,! dear, but I am very low this mornir and when I am, the loss we have Si tained by the death of our parei returns on me wfith double Source
• e
“Well then, I will not be denied suppose it is Some intrigue which y( will not let me See.” “No Such thin is Edmund ever imparts his Sorei^ amours to me, you ffiall be made a quainted with them; at present excu me, you would be displeased with hit
he is cut of hunio'.ir at being kept i
i h
ft
\
long abroad, and speaks of Mr. Watson with more petulence than I could wilhihe sighed, called me a perverse girl; but what could I do, Lucy.? “Well, continued She, I must: fet you a* good example; know then that as I was following you this morning, my papa call’d me back, and with an air of gravity made me sit down betweea him and mamma, they then harangued me by turns, on their tenderness and affection to me, recapitulated all the obligations confer’d on me, which I
r
gratefully and readily acknowledged; wondering all the while what this dis courfe tended to; at last; out came, with the usual formalities on these occasions, a proposal of marriage between Henry Beaumont and me — he is just: come home, and is to be here this,
D 3 asternoon.
54* X iri if ivx .TL 1. la FX. KJ .LX 0
t '
i
afternoon. I could not help saying, the young gentleman would not be much prepoflelted in favour of the
delicacy of a girl, who met him more than halfway; and who was content
to receive his acceptation with thank fullness, or his rejection with submission;; — said, as I was supposed to be ignorant of the affair, my delicacy could not be called in question; that ^ though they did not intend to force my inclinations, hoped I should endeavour to oblige them : I left them, I believe, not very secure of my acquiescence;; I have no patience
with the folly of this way of match
%
’tis beginning at the wrong end — for my part I hate Beaumont already, and I dare say he will come to me as a man goes to execution : I suppose

pose too we are to be ftiut up together,, to look foolish.. i’ll be hanged if I do not spoil his declaration of love before he can produce it. — But mind me, Emma, if you go to slip out of the room, i’ll send for old Hiarley to -- plague you — but come now, reward; my confidence,, holding oujd her hand; I burst, into tears?^her discourse medr me feel more than ever for my bro, therihe chid my lowness; wiped my’ eyes, but seemed herself much affected: file left me to dress.. which I
A
have wrote this adieu, my dear Lucy, for the present— — had but just laid down mt pen, when Clara sent to begv I would come to help her choose' feme laces, 1 hastily followed the servant, and about halfway, the stair hitched the heel of my flioe, and L Sell
D 4 to
50 1 nii ivl A 1 JJ i in A U JN 1,
to the bottom — the girl screamed, and the housekeeper ran to us; they helped me into her room where I fainted; on recovering, I found myself on my bed, Clara had sent for a surgeon, and I suffered myself to be bled : I had bruised my forehead, and hurt my arm a good deal, after the operation they applied something to my face, gave me some drops, and left me to compose mysels; the hurry of Spirits and bleeding threw me into a doze; awake ing, I Sound miss watson by my bed lide, who told me Ihe would not disturb me for dinner, which was past,
, is I Sound mysels well enough to
rise, Ihe would now order the cloth to be laid in my room, adding, Ihe had waited to keep me company; I thanked her for her kindness, and finding my,
,
sels quite recovered, got up; I could not help observing her eyes were red with weeping, but there was Such an air of satissaction diffused over her countenance, that I took no notice of it to her. — mrs.watson came to See me when Ihe heard I was up, and kindly inquired how I did. Clara Said, “She, hoped she was not expected to appear, as she Should not think of leaving me alone, ” Her mamma Seemed displeased at her excdses, and Said, llie was certain I would Spare her for an hour or two, and the visit would not be longer, but is She had a mind to be perverse and disoblige her papa. She must: take the consequence. I inter posed, and infilled Ihe Should not Ifay with me, telling her is Ihe persisted in not going down without me, it would
D 5 lay
SB  .
lay me under a necefiity of attending with my face bound up— — consented at last, and I hurried her to dress; the sweet girl put up her lip. No, indeed, ffie thought her dress very well; ffie had no design on his heart, and hoped he would dislike her, as ffie was certain She ffiould him. Poor Mrs. watsort stood sret ting to hear her, but Said nothing;
they withdrew together, and I immedi
« •
ately Set about answering edmund’s letter — I miss’d it from my bosom, but Sound it on the bed — ’twas a painsul taslc Lucy, but a necessary one; I pitied, I blamed, I advised him to eradicate this passion. So deftfuctive to his peace, from his heart; whatever pain
t
it might cost, I bid him confider the difference between a Sew weeks or
months
»
months misery, and a whole life of ' wretehednefs; I reminded him of the care Mr. watson had taken of our affairs, and the ingratitude of even wishing to Seduce his daughter from her obedience; but I could not, Lucy,
ff *
could not tell him of the intended marriage; no, let him hear it from any one but me, my letter may prepare him for it — it gives him na
• ^
hopes. To avoid clara’s importunities' to See it, I Sent Jermin, my own Servant, with it — I can depend on her discretion,
— Clara, in Spite of her prejudice, cannot help admiring young Beaumont; but it is only to me — her Sather and ' mother are in raptures with him, but
to them Ihe finds Satilt with him, they
^ \
Were not lest together, asmiss Beaumont came with her brother; but indeed I
^ I
D 6 cannot
cannot think Mr. and Mrs. Watson would have been so indelicate to have retired at his first visit— — would he, if well-bred, have taken the advantage of it. Clara is provoked, Ihe says, at not having reason to disapprove of him, but then there is no fear of finding an objection in the course of their acquaintance. I told her She ought to rejoice, that the man destined for her husband was So amiable. “My huibnd! Can you wilh it Emma ?” She looked as Ihe would penetrate my Sentiments. “I wilh you happy, my dear Clara, Heaven knows belt what will make you So.*’ — I gave a sigh to Edmund. I have been involved in a new difficulty— — and Mrs. watson have earnestly entreated me to use the in' fiiience they would persuade me I have
over
over their daughter, to forward this alliance, on which I find both families have fet their hearts; I beg to be excused interposing in so tender a point, alleging that I really thought persuasions and remonstrances on this subject,, have a very different effect: from what they intended; that if I might be permitted to give my opinion, they had better leave the affair
\
to time, and the young gentleman’s asfiduities; who, they described too amiable to doubt of his success— — complimented me highly on this advice, which was agreed to be exactly ' followed; and my heart rejoiced ' in having extricated myself from such a disagreeable talk, and at the same time acted as a general friend; I have Saved Mr. aud Mrs. watson a great deal of
useless
62  .
ufeless vexation; I have saved Clara'
V
from a persecution' which llie dreaded, and myself from afiishng to delfroy my poor brother’s hopes — honour could not demand so rigid a sacra' lice, nature could not fuller it. — I will, as impartially as I can, conduct mysels through this perplexing affair, nor let one duty encroach on another, but commit the event to the unerring decrees of Providence. I begun to think from my friends behaviour the other morning, about the letter, that ffie SHH
N
retained a tender remembrance of her unsortunate lover; but her extreme vivacity since, too plainly Shows her new ■one has obliterated the idea. Why do I Say too plainly; Selliffi girl, that I am? Why ffiould I wiffi my friend to Sacrifice So many advantages tome and mine? You will now receive
two long letters from me, Lucy, and as'i suppose you are by this time at
R -- -- --, shall expect some account of
your new acquaintances, amusements, G. G. You see with what confidence I open my whole heart to you; follow my example, my dear Lucy, you can have nothing to conceal, and the unlimitted confidence we Shall repose in each other, will be one Security for our acting properly; this I am inclined to think was the original de
O
sign of conseffion; and, when considered in this light, is usesul, especially, with minds whose predominant pas fion is Shame; ours, my Lucy, are I hope sway’d by nobler motives — but we are both young, and Should assist each other by advice. — Adieu my 4 ' Sweet
04 lirlil MAI u11. IN auinl.
#
sweet friend; may you continue worthy' the peculiar care of the Almighty, the comfort and pride of the best of parents, and the darling of your friends, as well as of your first and most effec tionate one,
EMMA VILLERS.
« *
*
t
\
t
I - ^
I ' ''■
9
V
ft
4
LET
'I *
 . 65
I
LETTER VI
HENRY BEAUMONT, ESCL
T O
CHARLES NEVILL, ES(L Dear Charles, London,
Has the ancient spirit of prophecy
of late devolved on you Nevill? Have you dabbled in magic, or necromancy } Are you the seventh fon of a seventh fon? Or are you entered into a strict league with the
%
gloomy monarch of the lower regions? Do you receive your intelligence frorri “Spirits of health, or goblins damn’d”? For that your are certainly postested with the spirit of divination, I am
66  .
fully convinced, and expect you will, by return of post, acquaint me with all the occurrences of my future life. Is your talent vendible? if it is, I am inclined to become a purchaser, and setup the trade of fortunetelling and casting nativities. What a fund of entertainment would this afford? What pretty tales Should I be let into? I enjoy
W
the idea fe'rioully ' — though, what the devil, put it in your head that my father sent for me in such a prodigious hurry, to lead or rather drive me headlong into the laird of matrimony'; not the very high opinion I have of his wor stiip’s; sagacity, could make me give the least credit to a prediction which appeared so improbable; I could not have believed the old gentleman could have been fa absurd as to Send for me
Sronii
1 Jti j:. X u JL VI VI L 07
from Paris, (wffiich by the by) is not the place to give one a penchant for fetters, to make me such a present: But soit Was sure enough — had I known what this prefiing business was, I Should have begged of him and his fair daughter elect, to have waited a little, and I suppose the latter would have been obliged to me; for you will allow, I presume,, all your partiality for the sex, that the pretty dears have the spirit of opposition as strongly inherent in them, as we have; and I declare that I find myself postested of a large stock of it. If I must have a wife, let the misfortune be of my own ehufing. To you Charles I will oonfefs, raillery apart, I have as high a reverence for the state, as its most zealous partisans 3 but then my ideas
are
68  .
A
are perhaps too romantic. I look on it that we are born in pairs, and it is absolutely necessary that the two halves stiould meet to Sorm a proper union; it is the vulgar, the indelicate notion that the difference of Sex, and equality of Sortune and Samily are the only requisites to constitute the tie, that causes So much inselicity, that degrades the institution, and Surnisties So much employment for the proctors in Doctors Commons. But I Seldom declare my sels on the Subject, for to talk to the principle part of the world on the congeniality of Souls, would be as unintelligible as to harangue a man born blind, on the beautisul variety of colours, and gradation of stiades in the bow of Iris. — But you will expect Some account of the Sair lady,
destined
 . 69 destined for your humble servant, foi

shall go back a little for your better information. I had not arrived twelve hours, before my father took me aside, and acquainted me with his project, but in a manner that rather entreated, than commanded compliance; he told me the lady was daughter to Mr, Watson, and would be worth a hundred thousand pounds. I astured him
I
that article would ixave no weight with me, unless I liked Miss Watson;; I stiould not attempt to deceive him by pretending any engagement; that I was willing to wait on the lady, to oblige him, though I had no thoughts of marrying at present. He was, or appeared to be satisfied with 'this, and owned he had an undoubted
right to a negative on this occofian — ■
''I
70  .
and though he earnestly willed the alliance, he would never mention it more, if I could make one reasonable objection either to Miss Watson or her family. — In consequence of this agreement, I was next clay introduced, and could not help admiring my father’s taste, Clara Watson is the finest woman I ever saw, (as I suppose you will allow, when I tell you stie is a handsome likeness of your Agnes) she appears about eighteen, and adds to a Sace at once regularly and pleasingly beautisul, and a most gracesul Sorm, a cultivating understanding, and an elegance of manners; She has a Sund of wit and vivacity, perhaps more than • one Should covet in a wise. — I easily perceive by the air She received me with, that she has all the Spirit of an
English
1 XI Jli ivlaljjjiin aujnt. yi
Lnglhh woman, and scorns an imposed husband— — had even the mortification to observe I was not of sufficient consequence to excite her vanity; ffie would not dress, ffie scorn’d even to conquer me; for though her diflia bille was elegant, it was evidently not studied to Set off her charms : I have a great mind to be revenged by loving heartily — but perhaps She has bestowed her affections already, is So,. I must act with caution, as I ffiould never Sorgive my sels were I to occasion mis chies; for though I admire, I love her no otherwise than as a beautisul and amiable woman. There is, I find, another Semale an the Samily, a miss
/
Villers, who being indisposed, did not appear; ffie is not So handsome as miss watson, they tell me. — At my
return.
72  .
ft
return, I told Sir Harry, who eagerly X inquired how I liked Miss watson, that I could find no fault with the lady, nor could I pretend to determine i without a greater intimacy, whether Ihe was capable of making me happy, but that by his leave I Should continue to visit her as an acquaintance; but begged no step further might be taken in the affair, as time alone could discover whether we Should be agreeable to each other; — I perceived by his silence, he was hurt by my coolness, as he had no doubts of my being captivated. — You see, Nevill, I write to you with the openness and freedom of an old acquaintance, though ours is but of a few months standing; but the event which was the introduction to it, is a more solid basis than years
of
*
 . 73 •
t)f intimacy; the temple of friendship ought always to be Sounded on a rock, those which are built on Sand have no parmanence, they crumble into ruin as Soon as raised. Your Saving my lise, laid me under an eternal obligation, but ’twas not that gained my friendihip; gratitude was the rock, but it was your merit erected the edifice, which it shall be miy care to preserve. Nothing certainly was ever So ill timed as my recall — jufi as I was endeavouring to cultivate your esteem, and gain your confidence. — You will perhaps have a bad opinion of my Sensibility, when I declare you are the only young fellow I could ever approve of as a
ft
friend; all I have met with on my travels have been rather too dissipated, or too studious, Sori did not come
vol. I. E abroad
74  .
abroad as many of our countrymen do, to intrigue and riot without con toul, nor to spend my time in viewing ruins and copying inscriptions; my curiosity rather led me to study men and manners, than to collect antiquities. — I am naturally warm, open, and susceptible of friendship, but have been so often checked by .finding a bad heart joined to a good head, or a bad head to a good heart, that I was difeou raged, and despaired of finding them united ’till I met with you, who have
N
given me a better opinion of the world and made me repent my hasty censure. — I shall Set out for oxsord in a day or.too, to See my brother Frank, and stiall. expect to hear from you at my return — tell me how your affair goes on with the Sair Agnes; that you love
diet
 . 75
her I am certain, in spite of all your professions to the contrary — I judge by your behaviour, which is more tender than gallant. Is not this an infallible lign? — but you are a reserved fellow, Nevill — however, I have fet you a good example, and expect you will follow it. Did you know how many acquaintance have been to welcome me home, whose faces I am a stranger to, and whose names I can hardly recollect, you would wonder how I had found time for this long epistle — but I have too much pleasure to converse wdth you, even at this distance, to conclude till this moment, when I have only room to subscribe myself, with the greatest stneerity, your obliged, and
Affectionate friend,
HENRY B -- -- --.
76 THE MAIDEN AUN.D
/
\
LETTER VII
I
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
T O
MISS EMMA VILLERS.
Dear Emma, _ RI
HAVE been at R -- -- this weel
/
but before I say a word more C myself, let me, my dear Miss Villers thank you for your two kind letters I am honoured by the confidence yoi repose in me, and I hope edified b; your example and advice, whichs shall ever confider as the greatest; ad' vantage I can possess— — shall lay ni] heart open to your inspection, youffial!
reprove
 . 77
reprove and commend my pad actions, and direct my future. With such a guide, I hope, to pafs through life,
ft
without any great deviations from the moral line of rectitude. To you I shall apply in all my dilhculties; for thjiughi am not two years younger, my inexperience and total ignorance of the cuhoms of die world, makes me appear to myself as a child — this visit will, I hope, in some measure inure me to comoanv, and wear
X J '
off that timidity which is So. troublesome to me, and which Mils Walter ridicules So much. — My dear mamma was very loth to part with me, but Said it was but reasonable She Should.. Something to my pleasure, since I So cheerfully devoted my youthful days to her comfort. — She
3 ' clasped.
78  ,
clasped me to her bosom at parting, “Yon are going, my dear child (Said the worthy woman) into a new Scene of lise, where you will not only be miftress of your own actions, but will have no friend whose advice you can depend on; you will, in all probability, meet with many little occurrences which will embarass you, and I know how it is with young people, they can never So entirely lose the parent in the friend, as to be quite un reserved. Write then, my dear Lucy, to miss Villers, acquaint her with all that passes, and I shall be Satisfied, To Sree you from all restraint, I shall never ask to See your letters, nor expect to be made acquainted with more than you shall both think proper. — Particular instructions, my dear, I
shall
 . 79^
shall not trouble you with; you have a good heart, follow the impulses of that, and let neither persuasion nor example induce you to act contrary to the minutest; punctilio of delicacy and virtue.” — I left my dear mamma, so much softened by her kindness,
that I wept all the way to R -- --,
where I was received by Mr. and Miss Waiter, with such a profuston of ci cility, that I soon grew cheerful; the ffcxt evening was their first; assembly— — the whole day was dedicated to dress; — as I could not be prevailed on to let the man who attended miss Walter dress my hair, notwithstanding, they assured me it was cuftomar)^, her own maid was ordered to Supply his place, and as my friend wished me to appear to advantage, ftie was
e4 So
Sk>.
*
obliging to give directions;! beg^ jged hard, not to be powdered, butr could not prevail, and Miss Walter infilled on my wearing, a vast deal of finery of hers in my hair — but when I looked in the glass, I was frightened; the powder,, and a load of flowers, pins, and feathers, had So altered me, that even you, my dear Emma, would not have knwvn your * Lucy. I could have cried with vex?
ation — I wis afraid of disobliging Miss, Walter, by altering it after Ihe had taken, so much pains, : — ou; the other hand
I could not think of appearing Such, a. gaudy figure r at last;,, wffiile they were all busy, I Set to work— — the powder clean out, and dressed my hair between my usual way, and what it was before, and was much better
pleased
X XI xj lyx n X j i Il n X. o L
pleased with my own flaxen locks, with no other ornament than a small diamond sprig on a black feather, ’ than all the glitter I had before; I was so expeditious that I was in the parlour soon after Miss Walter, who seemed much offended at what I had done; I apclogized, by saying I was So unused to the Safliion, that I could
i
not reconcile mysels to it at once :
J ^
She replied rather cooily, I had a right to diguile myself is I pleascd, ^ but assured me, I Should See nobody dressed like me. — I am asraid 1 tyre Gu; my dear Emma, with these trifles,. but you must expect ngthkig; better from me. We went to the as seinbly, - which was very large; — miss Walter Said She would endeavour to get me a partner, but chance Savoured
E 5 me,
«
me, I danced both minuet and conn try dances with a Colonel Richly, the handsomest man I ever saw; indeed all the company admired him — he was vastly polite all the evening; and at parting, begged permission to wait on me next morning — which Miss Walter, without waiting for my reply, gave him leave to do. Agreeable as he is, I should certainly have declined his visit, had it been left to me; as I am vastly diftres fed at his discourse;; — made love to me all the evening, in such romantic and extravagant terms, that I was quite at a loss how to answer him : I told Miss Walter of this, who laughed at my simplicity, said he only danced with me as being a stranger, and as to his conversation, it was what all men of gallantry entertained their partners
with —
*
A M VA A A ^ A ^ ^ -^ • V J
with — adding, I Should make myself very ridiculous, if I fet down as a lover, every man who said a few civil things to me. The Colonel came in the morning, with a Captain Hervey, who danced wfith Miss 'Walter; — they engaged themselves to tea, and to attend us to the play; where, among other dvil things, he made me so tender and serious a declaration of love, that I could not doubt his' sincerity— — fear I was too well pleased with it; however, I gave him no encouragement, and positively resused his picture, which he offered me; — i in spite of all his moving Supplications. — The two gentlemen are with us every day, and have engaged us for partners every ball, perhaps this was imprudent; — I try to act with caution,.
E 6 but
. but my behaviour never fatislies. me, when on my pillow I review the past day; I am relllest and dlstontented, and the paiir I feel then, is hardly compensated by the pleasures of the day, though I then, am happier than I can describe i but’ I shall be easier now,, I have fulfilled one duty in writing to you,, and am deterhiined ■ to follow your advice; — Oh! my friend,, had I hctf your prudence i — I can never enough admire the generosity of your proceeding in regard to Miss Watson, and your brother, yet I could wish to relax a little in his Savour. How affectingly he writes.
have, made that part of your letter pale with my tears; — I hope and believe Miss watson loves him..

though I cannot account for her vi
o
vacity.,
I
: i H £. M Al ij LI JX A U M i. 6g'
m
vivacity— — long to hear what you' think of Mr.' Beaumont — do give me a description of him; — I willi could’ describe Colonel Richly, but it would' be in vain to' attempt it — he is so tender and inlinuatmg, there is no relifting him. — I blufti at what I write,., and must conclude, before I make myself more rediculous,. as miss Waiter says — Ihe has been more obliging to me ever since - own I thought Ihe was rather pettilh, on that occasion but I have Saults enough of my own, to teach me to make allowances for others — and I believe she has a sincere regard for me. I long to hear from you, my ever dear friend; I am senli ble of the little time you can have' for writing, by the difficulty I have Sound since I have been here of getting \
86  ;
ting an hour to myself; it is quite a new world to me — Heaven grant I grow not too fond of it. Adieu, my dear Emma, continue to love
Your own
LUCY BEVILLE.
ft
«
%
LETI

inn ivl 1 JC. in U IN A • 5 J
LETTER VIII
»
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T O
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
♦
I
%
#•
dearvlucy, St. james’s ftreet.
Your letter has, I confess, given
me great uneasiness, you say Colonel Richly is in love with you; but I, my friend, have made a greater discovery— — are as much in love with him in reality, as he is with you in appearance; be neither surprised nor offended, my dear, at my doubting his fmcerity; — it is no disparagement to your charms, which you must: expect
will
>
8s THE MAIDEN AUN.D
will gain you many admirers; — but I am always inclined to fus[)ect such precipitate' declarations, especially from men of gallantry, who,, as Miss Walter observes, make it a practice to every lady they are in company with. — I do not apprehend this is the cafe at present— — am convinced there is Something more than mere gallantry in this affair, but I could have vdfhed my Lucy had known his heart, besore she had exchanged her own for it, — which is So valuable,, that I Sear there arc many chances of her not receiving an equivalent. — Take care, my iw'ect girl, barter not a jewel Sora
V
pebble. — You, Say my dear, you have given him no encouragement,. I am convinced you think So, and equally convinced you are deceivedyou
have.
/
 . Sf have not learned to diltemble, your
4»
heart speaks through your eyes, and though its emotions are innocent, the discovery is dangerous; Colonel Richly is secure of his conquest; do. not bluffi, my Lucy — if he is v’crthy,, he will not make an improper use of it; if he is not, I hope the impression is not too deep to be effaced; at all: events Mrs. Beville ought to be made acquainted with it; though I fear fire will disapprove, both on account of your j^outh, and his profession, toi which you know ffie has. an aversion L we will not examine the justice of it — i there is a certain degree of refpectdue, even to the prejudices of a parent. — Your own goodness of disposition makes you unsuspicious of the contrary in others— — have told me
without
GO the MAIDEN AUN.D
40
without knowing it yourself, that miss Walter is not only unworthy your friendihip, but even your llightell notice. — ► She has certainly mean Sentiments and haughty manners; perhaps these are not her greatell Saults. — Now, my dear, is you can be thus easily imposed on by an acquaintance, with your eyes open, have I not reason to Sear you may be deceived when blinded by love; — but this deception is Sar more Satal than the other; be on your guard, I entreat you, my Lucy; was you indifferent, I Should not in the least: Sear the propriety of your conduct, but as this is not the case, there is a necestity of dissimulation, which I know will sit as awkwardly on you, as our modern stays would on Some belle Sauvage — be particularly caresul osmiss
Walter.
 . gr
Walter. — I am much mistaken if you do not one day see the neceftity of this caution.
I have devoted the first part oft my letter to your affairs, which appear to me more interesting than anything elfe, lest I ftiould not have time, and jny negligence on such an occasion, would be inexeufable. — The Beaumont family dine with us tomorrow— — young gentleman is expected from Oxford tonight, consequently will be of the party; I shall, therefore, defer concluding until I can obey your commands of giving Some account of him; — though I am searsul I shall not do him justice— — cannot like him, Lucy, for being the rival xos my Edmund; this prejudice
is
g2  .
is weak, the men would say womanilli; but I will not have the sex degraded? for my imperfections, which I airt pefuaded are not general ones
I have seen Henry Beaumont — and to see is to admire him 1 Highly as he had been praised, I was surprised to find how infinitely Short their encomiums vrere of giving an idea of him — his person is perfect, his manners elegant, and his sense refined. —
Must: I be more particular? I would
\
Sain make you? See him— — is tall,, and Shaped with the nicefl Symmetry, ■ and the easy dignity with which he persorms the moult trifling action, distinguishes him from all. the men I ever Saw; his Sace is fine, and animated, every Seature is Sormed to ex
presa
4
 . 93
A
press sensibility, and his large black eyes, convey intelligence, sparkle with vivacity,, or languish with the most enchanting tenderness— — mouth, Lucy, much refenibles yours, (which I dare say, your gallant Colonel has told you is inimitable) the same sweet smile plays round it, and Shows a fet of teeth as white and even as your own; his hair, which is so dark a brown, it might pafs for black, wms dressed in the most becoming and elegant manneri had forgot his complexion, which is clear, and adorned with the glow of health. — You cannot but admire his perlbn, Lucy, but, it is nothing to his addirefs; there is an indifcribable something in his very word, look and gesture, that insinuates
itself into the heart before we are
sensible
.=94  .
sensible of it; it is well I knew his engagement to Miss Watson— — I do not know whether my blissful insensibility would not have been van -- guiflied — but that saved me.
\
He did not come to dinner — we were all in a little parlour adjoining to the drawing-room when he arrived. — I was singing, by the desire of Sir Harry, and Clara accompanying me on the harpsichord— — heard us at the door, and stole gently in, making a motion to be taken no notice of. — 'sir Harry cried out to proceed, which, we did till I was confused, I know not why; and got so much out of the tune, that Clara was forced to flop — we however, got through it, though baddy, and I apologised as well as I
could.
.  . 95
'coiild. — The old gentleman made me do penance, by infilling on my singing alone; a tender ballad he is very fond of. — They all applauded me — mr.beaumont’s compliments wereboth flattering and delicate — he will adore •clara, who is quite a proficient in music, if he could be pleased with my persormance, who have no judge ttient. — But why Should I think he was pleased?? good nature and politeness induced him to encourage me,,, was so visibly abalhed.
I now give up Edmunds’ cause;; cannot think of refusing such a .man; yet Ihe says, Ihe has seen one ffie could prefer — that one must be my brother — next to Henry Beaumont, .1 allow him amiable; but all my partiallity
g6  .
«
%
»
\ _________________________________________
tiality cannot think him more. — The
the Solicitations of Mr. and Mrs. Wat
- ^
— he has everything of his lide. Do you really think, Lucy, I might, without any breach of honour and gratitude, plead this unsortunate lover’s •cause, at least; not conceal his passion. I know not what to do— — thought I had acted right, but I doubt I am irresolute — miss watson mentions him no more; Ihe is as kind as usual, but there is a reserve when stie Speaks of Mr. Beaumont, that ties my tongue, I thought to have dispatched this letter Some days ago, but I have less time than ever. miss Beaumont and her brother are always with us, we go to some public place every night — this evening we shall Spend in a Serious si anner; I had hinted my desire of
going
 . 97
going to the Magdalen chapel, and this morning we received tickers from Mr. Beaumont, engaging himself and sister to accompany us; — was not this obliging, Lucy? ’tis a place I have a great curiosity to see; it is an hospital founded for the reception and relief of those unhappy young creatures of our who are sunk beneath the help of private charity, and whose infamy is so great, it would reach the hand extended for their succour— — this
s
charity is supported by the noblest: patrons, and reflects on them the highest honour.
I
I am just; returned, Lucy, from a scene the most: painfully pleasing that can be conceived. We found the place prodigiousty crowded, as it is vol. I. F every.
98  .
every Sunday afternoon, I was at first struck with the neatness of the chapel,
t
the order and regularity of the Mag • dalens, who all appeared extremely young, and the modest Simplicity of their dress: they are in galleries partly concealed by their blinds — but when they Sung, I lost every sensation but attention to the affecting harmony; in those hymns where they express their gratitude for the 'benefits they receive, my heart Spontaneoufiy joined them, in thanking their heavenly and earthly benesactors. I was roused from this pleasing reverie, by Mr, B. who Sit
ft
next me, : “Charming Sensibility” ” he, gently prelfing my hand, “who but must Sympathise when “miss Villers weeps.^’ — His manly eyes glistened; I withdrew my hand,
and
J.XXXU yy
and blushed to find the effusion of. heart had escaped at my eyes; I recovered my composure, and lifteiied with delighted attention to the most; persuasive preacher I had ever heard; rit was the reverend Mr, D. the chaplain, The sermon was fine, and properly adapted. I saw Miss B. was a troublesome neighbour to Clara, who Sat besore me, and was too much .affected to join in her chat. Mr, ’ Beaumont, as we. were going, addressed himself to Clara and me : “I congratulate you, ladies, on the tenderness of your hearts; this is indeed, a sight to touch your sensibility; V t look .round and observe, that in th’s numerous congregation, yours arc the only Saces that betray emotion” — he looked, on Letitia — I blufiied,
F 2 Lucy’',
JL XX x l MWA XXX X ^ Amd AS XX W X •
Lucy, at the truth of his remark, not for myself and friend, but for the sex. They spent the evening with us, it was a delightful one; Mr. Beaumont was all vivacity, and soon dissipated the melancholy we brought home. On retiring, 1 had no inclination to sleep, so fat rnyfelf down to finish this letter, I fear you will find it a dull one, blit
the pleasure I Seel in writing to yon,
*
my dear girl, makes me, I believe, osten trespass on your patience; but you desire me to be particular, and I am ready enough to comply with So agreeable an injunction. My next may, perhaps, be devoted to gayer Subjects — the playhouses, carlifie house, cc. wfill osten, I suppose, employ my pen — I need not Sear that
my
 . loi
my Scratches will lessen the pleasing Surprise these places will occaficn on your first: Seeing them; my descriptions are too impersect to have that effect.
\
F know not what to make of this' matrimonial affair; t’^ere is not the least: particularity in Mr. bs behaviour to Clara, and ftie treats him with the Same careless good nature as the rest of the gentlemen that vistt us — it is very odd I think — but why should I think about it, they are both too amiable not to inspire mutual regard; but as there are no obstacles to their happiness, their passion is calm and Serene, unattended by those violent transports which are concomitant wfidi uncertainty or despair. Adieu, my
F ^ Lucy,
«
102 THE M A ID E N A U N T..
Lucy, I must go to bed, though I have id's inclination for Sleep than Scribbling — but repose. is necessary to a life of action as mine is — Once more aciicu, and believe me ever yours,
EMMA VILLERS..
\
I
p
I
0
K
✓
r
ft
♦
\
ft
V
\
ft
LET
V
 . .03
\
LETTER IX
ff
HENRY BEAUMONT, E S
T O
C H A st L E S N E VI l L E, E S Q.
Dear Charles, -. London.
"Vv hat a lazy fellow you are
Neville, not to answer my lafl letter,
%
doirt you know that such a neglect would have been sufficient to have broke off our correspondence between two violent friends, as the phrase is; — who are very careful not to be too lavish of their Savours, but keep a literary account, debtor and creditor, — least the balance Should remain
F 4 with
j04  .
with their correspondent— — rny own part I hate such mercantile exactness, such retail communications. — I expect you will write to me when you have time, and anything to say, wdthout expecting punctual answers, when I have neither. I hate scraps of letters which contain nothing, but, I received your favour, and am yours, ci have mighty matters to communicate, and am as impatient as a woman, ’till I can get somebody to hear them, so waving the child’s play, of its your turn now, and its my turn next, shall inform you —
That love has seized hold of this obstinate breasts
And made it — — ~
faith I do not know what — but very foolish I believe. — I have given away
at
I ti JL ivlalujciin auinl. 105
at a glance, this heart, which had hitherto refilled the charms of all europe— — without hopes (I had almost: said) of a return; but no, I have hopes, love cannot exist: without. I must; give you the history of my defeat — I came from Oxford last; week, and found our family were to dine at Mr. watfon’s the next day, I had Some engagement which detained me
O O
until aster that time, but promised to join them. — I did So, as I approached the room they were in, my ears were charmed with the Sweetest; Sounds they ever yet had heard. — I stopped Some moments; every faculty was absorbed in one — I put my hand to the door — my heart vibrated with unusual tremors, as is already on the wing. I dreaded to interrupt
F 5 the
i, o6, THE. MAIDEN AUNT.
S
. !»
the harmony, but an inrefiftlble impulse obliged me to enter the room — I made a sign not to be observed— —

my father cried, proceed — I heard no more, the music of the spheres would have been lost on me — my soul was in my eyes — yet I saw not Miss Watson who sat at the harpsichord, my whole attention was riveted to a young lady who stood by her in the attitude of singing— —

I
♦"so fair — — —
‘‘ That what feem’d fair in all tke world. Seemed now
w
Mean, or in her fumed up, in her contain’d’’.
t
I could carry on the quotation for an hour — for not our first progenitor felt more at receiving heaven’s last bell gist, than I, at the sight of Emma Villers, yet they told me Ihe was no
beauty,
t
tltb MAIDEN AUNT. 107
beauty, nay, they still insist on it —
A ' ',
with all my heart; fly is more, Ihe is a lovely woman; figure to yourself, Charles, modesty personified— — I must indulge myself, by being cir cumftantial. The sweet girl is about nineteen, of a middling height — your admirers of skeletons might perhaps call her too full — but she is only enough so,. to give a • delicious softness to her appearance — her skin is of a dazzling wffiitenefs, but fly has no roses (except her lips) unless you have observed the tinge in white ones, or the bells of Hyacinths, her sea tures are not regular, but delicately Seminine, wfithout insipidity— — hair is Shining auburn — its glofty hue, un spoiled by powder— — have reserved her eyes to crown the description —
F 6 they
N
they are neither black nor blue, neither languishing nor sparkling— — such eyes, Neville, as you never saw— — a light hazel, large and finely ftia ped, with long eye lalhes of the colour of her hair, through which beams forth such mild benignity, such sweet complacence, as we should expect from a celestial being — such. She appears to me, calculated to inspire the most delicate, the most refined tenderness;; most abandoned libertine
•ft
would feel each looser passion checked, and be incapable of forming a wish injurious to her purity — when he
Felt how awful goodness h,
and say,
K
virtue how lovely in her native shape
/
will, I take it for granted, Neville, look pn this as a mere lover’s rhapsody

^ mwmp m m — F -- ^ ^
fody — you have not seen, have not beard, the bewitching creature; her roice is music in speaking, but when (he sings, her artless warblings might : all a listening angel from his orb.
I need not tell you I am there wery day, and am one in all their parties — the moment I go out, I as nechanically take the road to St, james’s ftreet, as if there was no other. — I am received in the family, as : he intended husband of Miss W —, who alone, gives me to understand,
ft
hat the affability of her behaviour [s to a common acquaintance, and hat I have nothing to expect if T change the character — see plain enough she does not love me, nor ever will, So I do no mischeis by joining
with
X XX jui itx .t A a. J. X KJ X'l X
4 •
with her, in blinding the old people, but in not undeceiving them; this has given me time to difeover that there is at pefeht no danger after my Emma. — I know not what to make of the sweet girl’s behaviour tome, i’fear she looks on me as engaged — et Ihe blushes if I speak to her; that is a good sign— — She is
always blushing, I never saw any person so timid — she gives me an idea of the fenfative plant, that seems to shrink almost before it is touched — I am so fearful of giving her either pam or offence,. that, I debar myself the smallest favours; I hardly dare to touch her hand — Such a hand Neville! but when I lead her to her carriage, then she has gloves on; — devil take the inventors of them, they are as bad
'as
as masks— — am in a whimsical situa- --
.
tion Charles,, the pretended lover of
f
one fine woman,., and the real one of another, and not of much consequence, I tear, to either. — Yet L cannot declare mysels — but endure a dreadful suspence, to avoid, a perhaps more dreadsul certainty. — She gains on me every day; for every day I discover new perfections — she does not display her attractions, they must be drawm out to light, by time and opportunity;
she pofieftes a cultivated understanding, with an elegant simplicity of
manners — fly is at once, - full of the most exalted generosity, and the most melting tenderness — she is artless .innocence. — But you will think I am mad — .and indeed I ought to apologise for intruding on your patience,
which
V
4
112  .
which must be tired with my raptures : pay yourself, Neyille, by sending me a long letter, and let Agnes be your theme — you will then find how hard it is to keep within bounds. < — 1 wilh you were in England, as there is no danger of your being my rival — I want to conquer that obstinate reserve; you are devoured by melancholy; neither melancholy, nor reserve, are natural to your Charles — prithee throw them off both together, and know me for your friend. I can keep your secret, though I so freely disclose my own to you — beside, I am not the gay Henry Beaumont, you knew, but a sober, downright lover — fit for the confidant of the grave, reserved Mr. Neville. I told you at parting — is you were disengaged
 . 113
gauged to keep to that, you might be my brother, but it will not do, Charles — my lister is a fine woman — but a mere fine lady, she has not the agreement; in short, she is not a present Sora friend. Letitia may Suit Some of our young men of Safhion, among whom She has many admirers; but, I know your tafle.
«
Tell your Sair miftress, that I kiss her hand, that is by your leave — but you have no jealousy — for my part I envy the very air, that blows on my Emma — Do you See any of our acquaintance? How do tney all go on? in the old way. I expect a long letter, or I shall conclude you have Sorgot your saithsul and obliged friend,
HENRY B- -- --
ivtaljjiin AUNT,
\
LETTER X
MISS LUCY BEVILLE
i
T O
MISS EMMA VILLERS.
My deais. Friend,, Weft groi
li O W shall I even to you recoui the disgrace, the insult I have receivci which finks me So. much in mv ow
J
opinion. To act So indiscreetly wit Such advice was inexcusable — m heart is Sull; let me, my dear Emm; pour Forth its load in your Sympath rgbosom. I was sensible of th situation osmy heart, besore I receive ^ur kind, your prudent letter. CC
lon(
 , ity
onel R, discovered it long before me; m.d. had, by the most: specious beha dour, gained not only my love, but' ny esteem and confidence. I had •romised to be his, with my mother’s onsentj.but at the same time told him he little probability there was of gain -- ig it — he seemed overwhelmed with espair, and conjured me, as I valued is happiness, nay his lise, to conceal be affair till he could throw up the ital commistion which was Such a bar) his hopes; adding, that he doubted ot but I stiould be confined, and revented Seeing him is' my mamma iould be insormed of our regard — was weak enough to promise him iis> — but I could Sooner have doubted ly own existence than his honour — person better acquainted with the
world!
«
ii ■  .
world might have been deceived t him; but I must pafs over in Silene a thousand little artifices he practice to deceive me; I long to finish th hatesul account, and Sorgct even bi name,
I was writing to my mamma, ti beg leave to lengthen my month’ visit (three weeks of which was almol expired) to six weeks,, when on chaise, with a Servant, stopped at thi door; it was come to fetch me home as my mamma had been ill for fomi days, and could not be easy wkhou me. My concern for her illness ba nistied every other, and I Set abou packing up my things wdth the great est expedition. Mrs. and miss Wall ter were engaged with company; 1
wantec
 . 117
wanted to let Richly know the reasons my abrupt departure, but knew lot how: whilst I was considering ffiat to do, he pasted by, and feeing northeast in the parlour alone, came in; I insormed him of the Summons I had received, but it is impostible to describe his behaviour; he raved like a madman, and entreated me to go off to Scotland with him; Said it was all a scheme to Separate us; but when he saw how much I was offended at the proposal, he threw himsels at my Seet, begged my pardon, but vowed life could not Survive my departure, unless I appointed a time and place to see him — my heart was too much softened to resuse — I described to him the fummer house (which you must remember at the end of the little Serpentine
xis  .
pentiiie walk that goes through ffirubbery) as the window that lo Into the fields is very low, and it great way distant from the house thought he might get in there unj ceived, and as I always keep the k ' and spend many hours there in wo ing or reading, there was no dan; either of interruption or fuspicioc foolish creature that I was, to assist Sorming Schemes against myself— — Satisfied with this, and was come in three days, i took leave Mrs. and miss Walker, who exprell great concern at parting, morel! lieve than they Selt. I Sound r mamma much worse than I expede stie had taken cold, which had broug on a Sever. The joy stie Showed •.feeing me, made me condemn niyff
f
 . 119
For concealing anything from her, and I determined when I saw the colonel to break off the engagement, unless it had her approbation. On the noon of the appointed day I took a book and walked to the place; he Soon joined me, with the highest appearance of love and rapture; but there was a freedom in his manner that I did not like, and which he had never assumed before : but judge if you can, my dear Emma, my indignation, when, after a thousand profestions of eternal fidelity, he had the insolence to propose my eloping, and living in private with him, till my mamma should consent to our marriage. All his art could not varnisti over the infamy of his proposal, which I rejected with the disdain it deserved, and told
f •
ft
lao TUE maiden AUNT.
him I was glad he had so soon throw off the malk; that though I hj esteemed him as a man of honour, could despise him as a villain; ar rising to go, added, he might fai himself the trouble of any more visit as I solemnly vowed never to See hii more. I have wondered since at m spirits, but I never felt myself So an mated before; however, I had beth have dissembled. Just as I was at th door, he catched me in his arms “As you will not give me anothe opportunity, I should be a fool t miss this; I can but be a villain.
( g ^
I struggled to disengage myself— — determined air, the remoteness of th place, and my weakness, which I per ceived he meant to take the advantag of, terrified me. I exerted my littl
 . is x
f
A
strength, and defended mysels, till the Sound of voices approaching, made him destst, and precipitately leap from the window. I Sunk into a chair, overcome wnth Satigue, and burst into tears — the winding of the walk gave me time to compose myfels a little, besore the maid came — stie Seemed Surprised at my emotion, which I ex cused by saying, I had been reading a melancholy story, and alked who stic had been talking with — ihe Said, her mistress had Sent her to clefire me to. come in, as it was a very damp evening, and that stie met the gardener, who came with her to the last turning— — immediately went in, with a. heart Sull of thanksul gratitude to providence, for extricating me from the danger my in discretion had led Yol, I. G mr
122  .
me into. I was obliged again to have recourse to the same falsehood, to fa
i
tisfy my mamma about the redness of my eyes, and my long stay in the garden, How painsul is deceit, and how does one Sault insenhbly produce others — I was almost determined to consess the whole, but thought it
«
would, on this occasion, be a less crime to be insincere, than to wound the bosom of this best of parents — never will I for the Suture reduce mysels to Such a painsul alternative — I have been a good deal indisposed these two or three days, but am now muck better; my Serenity is returned, I am chearsul, and find the load I complained of at the beginning of my letter removed, that was wrote the night
aster my adventure, while my Spirits
were
 . 1.23
were in their first agitation. I now employ all my time in attending my mamma, who is almost recovered. I have this moment heard by accident from one of the servants, that the colonel was thrown from his horse in going home? and is much hurt; they did not know his name, nor where he had been; nor did I betray my knowledge of him, but heard the affair with unconcern — indeed, I Should be despicable, did I retain the Smallest degree of regard for him; it is contempt rather than hatred I Seel; he is So altered I can hardly bdieve I ever loved him — but you Say 1 did — indeed 1 gave too evident prooss of it — but no more of him.
G a I hate
0
124 THE mxhden AUNT.
I have neglected saying anything of your letter, my dear miss Villers, though I Shall ever think mysels indebted for it — your description of Mr. Beaumont answers your wishes— — See him, my dear friend — you have made him quite irresistible— — you are safe you Say — you are quite Sure of that, Emma? miss watson does not love him, if She did I fancy there would be room for a little jealousy — you
Will not, I hope, my dear, be dif,
0
pleased at the hint, nor deprive me of your confidence — your letters will be my only entertainment, as most of our neighbours are gone to London — Indeed, when they are here, my mamma’s ill health seldom permits, her to visit, and I never go without her.
Adieu,
rimii jvlaljl)±bjn A U IN 1. 125
Adieu, my amiable friend, I need not, I believe, desire you to pity and Gonceal the imprudence of your
affectionate
ft ^
• 9
LUCY BEVILLE.
/
ar
G 3 LET
ft
ft
0
0
426  .
ft
LETTER XL
V
k
/
CHARLES NEVILLE, ESS^
ft
T 0
HENRY BEAUMONT, ESQ
Dear Henry, Paris.
T
J. RECEIVED yonr first favour at Monsieur d’aumont’s villa in the country, where I have spent Some weeks with themarquisd’r —. I shall not add any apology to that, you have so candidly made for me, which is indeed the best that can be alleged, but proceed to congratulate you on the contents of your last, believe me Beaumont, ’tis a real felicity to love
aa
I STL JL .tx X XJ IL LS U in 1. 137
arr amiable woman; I mean for vou who
F Af
can scarcely doubt of a return; your person, fortune and merit command it. — Miss Watson you say is insenfible, but file may have blelted Some happy man with her affections; ’tis just:, ’tis generous in you,, not ro attempt her constancy. Ah! what an obligation will you conser on the absent lover, is this stiould be the case; — Love hinisels is bound to reward von, and
J d
will inspire (he heart of your Emma,
with, all the Sentiments you could
¥
wisti; nay, has he not already? Does not her blushes, her very reserve, discover it? — How can you suppose your animated letters could; tyre me — it was an improbable conjecture, never again let it trouble you, but continue to Savour me. with, your confidence, as
G 4t I tcel.
\
I feel myself prodigiouhy interested in your success. I would wfith all my soul, make you the return you desire, but my affairs are so circumstanced, that I am deprived the pleasure of communicating them to a friend. — Yet, I would Sain convince you, that my reserve neither proceeds from a mean suspicion of your friendihip^ nor want of it mysels. — Will yoti accept of a limited confidence? and permit me to keep one little hoard of gries within my breast, if ever (which I dare not flatter mysels) the cause for that fliouk] cease, it would be an addition to my joy, to make you a partaker. — You Say, I love — 1 do indeed, my friend — to adoration — but not Agnes. Long, long, besore I Saw her, my heart
was
ft
s
 . 129'
ivas irrecoverably fixed upon an object too charming ever to be rivalled.
I had engraved an image in my breast, which nothing can ever efface. - — I have loved, Beaumontj is net
without hope, at least: with So little,
$
that it only stiewed ’ me obstacles;; Saintits beams, it only Served to make my “darkness visible - — present, a brighter ray plays round’my heart, and animates if with new warmth. — r am like a man long confined in clarkness, to whom the Smallest ray of light would Seem the Sun in its Sull radiance — may you never know Such a state! ' Once I was stattcred widi a mutual return; — but I must quit this Subject, or cease to write, — Strive not, my friend, to penetrate
s
Surthen nor wound my heart, by
130  .
trying to tear from it a secret it would rather break than divulge. — Perhaps the erifis of my fate is now at hand — but I shall rave— — me be calm, and impart to you, an affiiir I am unfortunately engaged in, and assist me with your advice. You: know my intimacy with the Marquis d’ R— — me to the house of Monsieur d’anmont, to whose daughter he had Sheen contracted in her infancy — the marriage was to be celebrated when file airived at the age of sixteen; she Was entered that year, and jull returned from the Convent, where she had been educated, wffien I was introduced, — I was pleased with the artless simplicity of her manners — her soul Seemed as spotless, as unae quainted with deceit, as is just issued

THE mardt'n.' AUNT.' 151 ^
r
Sliecb from the hands of her Creator.. — I felt myself attachcdcto • her, by a fyinpathy so tender, that it might' have passed for love, had I nor before been too'sensible of the difference— — was deceived by. it Beaumont, but whaf was worse, .the amiable object her sels was deceived; fly thought I loved, and in return, la -- viflied' all her Sond' affections on - a bankrupt. — I perceivod not' her partiality,. but imputed; her unaffected oompiacence, to the attention 1 paid; her; - the Marquis; whose heart was divided by all the beauties ■ of Farisj, had nothing to bellow on Agnes, buf airy gallantry, with which'ffie Seemed' clifgufted, and Sought for resnge in; my conversation, .which was dictated
by. friendfliip; but a Sriciidfliip,. too
A 1
lyz THE MAIDEN AUN.D
tender to be inspired by any but herself; it was a kind of fraternal regard; I pitied the fate of a young creature, full of delicacy and Senlibiiity, destined to be united to a man, the least: calculated to make her happy, and who only Sulstlled the engagements made for him, with an interested view. — I have osten remonstrated to him the cruelty of deceiving her; and advised him either to destst: from marrying her, or from his amours, but he laughed at my Englisti notions; told me She was too rich a prize to part with; and added. She might be very happy with him — that when, he introduced her into the world, he Should propose to her, that they should each
follow
THE MAIDEN AUN.D 133.
follow their taste, and inclinations; that he ffiould expect ffie would nol interrupt his pleasures.. he ffiould allow her. the full enjoyment of hers, which he thought was very reason- -- I found it would be to no. purpose. to argue with a man in direct contradiction to his wiffies, and' the custom. of his country;, so con
4
tented myself with wiffiing something might happen to break off the match, which seemed so little promising of happiness to the. sweet girl. — Things were in this situation when you left Paris., The Marquis, a few days after, gave me an invitation to spend a week or too with him. in the country, at Monsieur d’aumont’s, who fet out the next dav,
I readily
s1j4- THE M'AID' en' AUNT..
\
engaged myfels, .as' I foundi
✓
Paris very dull' after your departure,,
t
and because I wislied to See a place t had' So much commended. — I was. lurprised’to find it exceed my expectations— — situation, the hotel, the gardens, all are delightsul. "We Spent our time in the most agreeable manner, Sorming every day new scherhes: of amusements for the next;., vet I
^ J
could not conceal,, with all my endeavours, my melancholy from the company;; — was one day in. a deep reverie,, when Agnes interrupted me,, and in the genteelest. term, inquired; the cause of my sadness; — my heart vras cn my lips,. “Love, .my Sweet jfriend,. hopeless love! is not this enough ?” I recollected mysels,, and Being unfit for company, turned from.
her
 . 13-
her dowit another walk, to avoid her father and lover, who were approach inff. — The next evenine:,. Monlieur"
O O'
d’aumont,. his. daughter, the Marquis and I,. w'^as.’ ina little boat; upon a large canal, in his garden;; vvhcn^ Agnes, catching at a' nosegay I had presented her with Sell over the boat. I wasjuflby, and jumping inytook; her in my amis, and Swam -- to the bank, where! listed her out with ease—
— Sooiras ffie was^a little recovered ffie {ighed my name, her head Sunk, on. my Shoulder, and ffie Sainted away; the boat had b this time reached us — the old gentleman expre.(icd his gratitude for the Service I had done his daughter, in very warm; terms,, and we all together conveyed' her to her apartment, where, with proper
afliftanee.
1^6'  .
assistance, Ihe soon recovered. — As ib was pretty late in she evening, I complied’ with their direction, and'went to bed — more to indulge my own
reflections, tham to rest.. arose next' % ^
morning, rather’ earlier than usual, and Sauntered into the garden; chance led me to the place where the accident had happened the'preceding even
\
I was surprised tofind Agnes tipfo Soon; fly advanced V ith eager Steps, and with an appearance of tender anxiety, inquired osmy health; Saying, fly could' never Sorgive her sels, ifi received any injury on her account; pouring Forth, at the Same time. Such gratesul acknowledgments, as quite overwhelmed me. I allured her I was persectly well, and happy to have been Serviceable to her; but, begged she
1 LI i!. M A 1 JL; LI JN A U IN i * X J 7
would not mention, as a favour, an act of common humanity, whiich had exposed me to no danger; but that if it had, I could not hazard my life on a worthier occasion, than for the
preservation of hers. — What could I say less, Beaumont Ihe looked at me with attention, ^ — May I believe you, Mr. Neville. — Are you sincere?? was Surprised at tbte~qucfilbnf “a
replied, that fly did great injustice to my friendfliip;. to doubt of my being always devoted to her Service. But judge of my aftonifliuient, when, with a Sace suflused with bluflies, and hals averted, fly in the mofl delicate terms, avowed her aversion for the Marquis, and her love for me; — llie Said, llie had long flattered hersels, I had entertained a passion for her,, and
that
¥
1 ri R ivl A i JJ JC. IN A U in 1
that her engagement alone had prevented my declarctiohthat fine waa confirmed in that opinion, by the air fwer I gave a few days ago to her inquiries about my uneasiness— — her gratitude for the Service I had done her, and the encouragement I now gave, had induced her to tranf gress the rules, which cullom and ~ ~ ~ mod^efry d^stctclvbed^f^ by a.
frank avowal of her Sentiments, and' that file relied on my honour and ge ncrofitv, to make allowances for het
a!
weakness, and’ not to entertain a meaiii opinion of her, for her sincerity— — the conclusion of this Speech, which, was delivered with all the graces of. timid innocence and hesitation.. waited for my reply, but I was Silent — ilic at last listed. up her eyes to my
1 n LI m 1XL i u IN 1, 159v
face, where the tumult in my heart was depicted; confusion, grief, and Surprise.. too visible; fly flood still a moment — then exclaimed, good Heavens! have I been deceived? — This expreftioa roused me from my reverie. I beheld the unhappy girl almost fainting; 1 led her to a seat,, and throwing myself at her feet, expressed the high fense I had of the honour she had done me, which I imputed to her gratitude, and pity for the melancholy llie had observed in me: I did justice to her charms and merit, at the Same time that I lamented my inability to pay them the proper tribute,, to which nothing but a prior attachment could have prevented my doing; and entreated her to pardon an involuntary Saulr,
wliiete
which was its owit punishment— — pressed her hand to my lips — the paleness which had overspread her face, gave way to the crimson hue: She burst also into tears; “Rise, Mr. Neville, you must despise my weakness“ “you, madam, I Should be the most despicable of my Sex, if the noblenessj. the generosity of your sentiments, did not elevate my esteem; but, have I not reason to Sear yoa will withdraw your friendihip from aman, who owns himsels unworthy your Savour, but who, rather de sjrves your pity than displeasure.” — I then briefly, acquainted her with the situation of my heart;. Ihe seemed pleased with my confidence. “Yoa are very good, Mr. Neville; may.yoa be as successsul as you. deserve,. v/hh
the
THE MAIDEN AUN.D 141
the happy lady.’’ — Tears stopped her Speech. — “Never, never, my lovely friend, can I be happy, while you are otherwise; and while those streaming eyes reproach me as the cause. — You know not how dear, how very dear, you. are to me; — I Seel a more than brother’s tenderness — Satal friendihip!. — unhappy tenderness! whose doubt ■ appearance has injured your re pose.” “Ah! no, no, replied She, you have nothing to reproach your fels with, my own Solly and vanity have misled me.; I am justly punished; but is you. Sir, will Sorget what has pasted this morning, and again treat
p
me as a friend, I will endeavour to overcome this vvcakness, and consorni my Sentiments to yours. — At least, I. will never again diftress you, as I
have
-s42  .
have done this morning.” — She turn
4
ed toward the house, and as we ap. proached, v/e saw the Marquis at a window. — How shall I rid myself of this hateful man? said Ihe, I know he does not love, yet why does he follow me? I never will marry him; I will marry nobody. “Say not so, my dear Agnes, — I hope to see you bless Some
%
worthy man.” We were just at the ffloor, when the Marquis met us — he rallied me on having taken an un -- Sair advantage while he was steeping. — agness stipped by him, and retiring, to her chamber. Sent to excuse her appearing at breaksast. The Marquis Seemed distatisfied and gloomy nil day; in the evening, he told me tome bufiness called him to Paris next
'fliorning, and begged I would accompany
  145
pany him, which I could not refuse, as we came together, — I perceived I Should have no opportunity of speaking to mademoifeme d’aumont before I went, I theresore wrote a letter to acquaint her with the reason of my departure; and hinted that I believed d’r -- -- - had Some Suspicions
of my being his rival — I concluded with a thousand proseffions of
friendship; but, the difficulty was, how to deliver it: her attendants were old women, wbo were rather duennas than Abigails; I theresore slipped it into a book, which I had observed Ihe read in every morning — and which nobody touches but hersels.
J
We paid «ur compliments to mon fieur d’aumont, early in the morning, and Set out — I called on the Marquis
a day
3h4  .
I
a day or two after, and found he was in the country, foi suppose his business was a pretence to get me out of the way — indeed, it is for the best — as things were between us, absence is the best remedy, I believe, for ill placed love. — I cannot describe to you, Beaumont, what I Seel for this lovely, too susceptible girl. — I condemn my own behaviour, which certainly was very imprudent, but I was too much engrossed by my own ideas, to think of wh; t I was about; I knew my own Seeiings, and did not reflect that others might mistake theirs; — I knew
not what course to take,, nor what to
♦
wish, for this amiable Sufferer; I cannot think of her marriage^with this man, who must make her miserable — as to my sels, I cannot even wilh
my
 . 14^
my heart at liberty — ILIAD rather die for my first, my only love, than live for an angel.
I have now, my friend, opened my heart to you as Sar as I can at present, and must remain your debtor for die rest — be astured I equal you in friendly Sentiments, and Set the highest value on your esteem, as it is not Ihared with any other. — I am just in the Same way, with many acquaintance, but only one friend, and too happy in that one, to wisti for more. Do you not hold for congruity of Soul in friendstiip, as well as love? 1 am a great advocate for it in both;
but with this difference, that in the
«*
first it is confined to the stronger Sen
O
funents, pastions and operations of vol. L H rhft
146  .
thc mind; in the last, to certain little delicacies, tenderneffes, c. the almost imperceptible springs and movements of it. Love is therefore the finer. friendship, the stronger pastion; they stiould be joined to form a proper union, one to refine and harmonise, the other to elevate and strengthen,, is what I feel, but alas! feel in vain. — Like Tantalus, I have the keen >est appetite and relisti for the blessings that I cannot partake. May you, my friend, never be able to pity me as I deserve, from ignorance of the misery of Such a situation. Your affairs Seem in the most prosperous state — may they Succeed to your wfisties, may your Emma return your sondness, and may her Sair friend bless Some early
saithsul lover. And Oh! may that
dawn
 . 147
dawn of hope which now beams upon my mind, dispel those gloomy clouds which have so long inveloped it, and brighten and irradiate the future prospects of.
Yours Sincerely,
f
0
CHARLES NEVILLE.
C
i
H 2 LET
Its  .
LETTER XII
m
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T o
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
4
*1
Dear Lucy, St, james’s street,
HE spirit and resolution of your behaviour, at the conclusion of your petit amourcompenfates for any little indifcreflion at the first, which must be imputed to your innocence, which makes you entertain, too favour, able an opinion of mankind in general; you will find (with pain 1 am sure) this pleasing deception, vanish by degrees; for I observe, that the
oldest
 . 149
oldest people, and those who have had most experience in the world, have the worst opinion of it. — J would wisti to believe every one virtuous, till I Sound them otherwise— — it is certainly the sasest, and I Sear the only prudent way of proceeding, to act as is we knew them to be the contrary — this is one of the disagreeable conditions of mortality. As to your Colonel and miss Walter, I had always a bad opinion of them, but we will Sorget them both, my dear, even their names, as you Say, and I rejoice you can make the proposal; but you are grown strangely suspicious I think! Why should you doubt the sasety of my heart? Why alk is I am very Sure of it? You have no reason. You
H 3 desired
ma - 4
desired me to describe mr. Beaumont, and then draw conclusions, (unfair conclusions Lucy) from the mere ef. Sects of my complaisance— — am Sure it was not a flattered portrait — you say too, miss watson is not in love, or llie might be jealous — I believe you are mistaken in this too, they are upon the most intimate Sooting, they fiiig, joke, nay, romp together, I don’t like romping — I wish Clara would not, because I think of my poor brother, yet what right has he to complain — nobody knows the terras these lovers are upon — I am the only person who presumes to inquire, and I get no information — She always answers me in her arch, witty manner, and disconcerts me; I don’t know, perhaps Ihe suspects me too; it is hard to be
suspected without a cause; I have
not
 . 151
/
not the vanity, even is I had the inclination to aspire to rival miss watson; — and Mr. Beaumont has too much taste, to bestow a thought on me, when he Sees Such an object Selected for him — they were Sormed for each other, and I Sincerely wish them happy. — IS their union makes me sigh, it is for Edmund, unhappy youth! as for mysels, I can admire, without going Surther. — Yet Clara watches my look; Oh Lucy,
I am weary of this place, weary even of this dear friend, (though Heaven knows how tenderly I love her) but it is no wonder, since I am much more tired of myfels. — I am ill Lucy, really ill, the air of lon '^on disagrees with me — I wisti I was with you, and your good mamma, —
H 4 r Should;
; *
M
I Should then be myself again — called away, — no time to write, or think — I rfiust take Some other time to
conclude — when I am in a better humour, I hope; adieu. — Well, Lucy, here I am again, as discontented as ever, — Surely 1 am the most altered being, that ever existed — what can occasion the change? — do not answer me my friend, probe not a wound that lies too deep for cure, — I am asraid mysels to look into my heart; — the dread of discovering unpleasing truths, makes me invent for mysels, the most Srivolous excuses — and Search no Surther — hut let me quit myfels, that now most unpleasing Subject. — Yet what shall I write? about our iiifiped amule ments — anything, you Say, rather than complaints.
The
 . 1^3
The night after I finished the first part of my letter, we, that is, Clara, miss Beaumont, your Emma, Henry Beaumont, and two or three more beaux, went to carliste house, for the first time the rooms, the music, the company, all exceed my talent at description. So let them pass over. — I made no doubt, but Clara was engaged to her lover, and readily consented, to be Lord Landmorest partner, who was of our party — and when Mr. Beaumont hoped I was disengaged, I concluded he had promised me to one of his acquaintance, and with an air of gaiety, replied in
the negative; he had taken my hand, Lucy, while he alked the question;
but dropped it, at my answer, with Such a look! — “I am very unsortu.
H 5 nate.
1^4  .
$
, nate, miss Villers — I had flattered
myfels, with the honour of your hand this evening, and more unsortunate to See you rejoice in my disappointment.” He sighed, and left me; — I Saw him put his hand on his bosom, and heard him Say to himsels — a bad omen, by Heaven! What could he mean? but what is that to meyet it is odd behaviour — he danced with Clara, who rallied him on his want of Spirits — mine I am Sure were low enough — and the impertinent gallantry of my partner, put me quite out of humour — I danced very little, but finding it was impostible to get rid of him, complained of the headache, and begged Clara to excuse. my going home besore her; Ihe replied, She would
accompany
i tlll ivlaljjjciin AUIN i. 155
f
accompany me with all her heart, as Ihe was tired, and her partner asleep— — made no effort to detain us, but attended us home, and took
his leave.
1.
^ *■ •
I found the next morning, I had
♦
the real pain, which I had the pre
• » ^ ■
'night, and when miss Beaumont, and Sir George mellson, who was her partner, called on Clara, to walk in the Park, as it was a fine morning — I excdsed mysels, and Sat down to finish a San mount, I was painting for Clara. — I was sitting alone, in our drawing-room, as we call it, when a Servant opened the door, and admitted Lord Landmore, — •I was surprised to see him, for as he does not visit the family, I had
H 6. not
not thought it necessary, to order niy fels to be denied — and I believe gave his Lordship but an indifferent reception. However, as he is not one of those easily disconcerted, he took his Seat — and began again to run over the common place compliments, he had entertained me with the night besore : I could hardly keep my pat

tience, and treated them with Some
contempt; he was So absurd at last,
that to keep up the farce, he threw
himsels on his knees, and took my
hand: — Who should enter the room \ ^
at this instant, but Beaumont, who started back with fusprise! I was ready to expire with consufion, but recollected mysels, when I Saw Mr. Beaumont retiring. — “Do not go, Sir, — is it is only in compassion to his
Lord
X in jc m X j: - _ XX u A. i^j
Lordship, who has exausted his whole
ft
flock of wit in five minutes, and was, you See, reduced to his last expedient to keep up conversation, and I dare engage we are equally obliged to you for relieving us from So disagreeable a tete-a-tete.” Mr. Beaumont bowed — his Lordship tried to show he was not at So great a loss for wit, as I had represented, but
ft
finding we were not disposed to relish his bon mots, soon took his leave. — ■ I will not, Miss Villers, apologise to you for my intrusion just now, the contempt, with which you treated your kneeling adorer, told me he had not much favour to expect; will you permit me, in return for the Service I have done you, in Sending him away, to enjoy the pleasure of 3 Spending
1^0 xxxui xrxrxxxyjluin jnurx !•
Spending those hours in your company, which I have deprived him of; shall I take this place madam? by your fide Emma, added he. Smiling — I told him, that was too slight a recompense, for Such a Service, which I would reward, by informing him where he might find miss watson— — “is as much as to Say, you would rather be alone, you offer me a considerable bribe, but I am too happy where I am, to move without a positive command, and I hope miss Villers will not be So cruel to give me one — as I See Ihe was only engaged with her pencil — and I need be no interruption to that.”
0 • »
I Showed him what I was finishing, he commended it, and alked
my
 . i^g
my leave to look at a large parcel of drawings that laid by — I astured him he would meet with no amusement. —
“isthat is all your objection, madam,
— rh look on that condition, ” — he met with a miniature of Clara, which
9
I had attempted. “I have Sound your friend — miss Villers, I had better desist, perhaps I may find your lover too.” “You will not indeed,
Sir” — then these are not all your drawings — for it is natural to suppose you employ your pencil on the objects nearest; your heart.” — ‘‘undoubtedly — you See there is miss watson” — “So you would infer from thence, that miss watson is next your heart — but this is rather too much to believe. — Is there not some happy man claims a first place Indeed there is not.”
“Your
io  .
•‘your affections are entirely disengaged, ” he looked in my face — I blushed, I hesitated— — did I Lucy? — Why could not I Say yes! — * “Here is an equivocation, resumed he, — but it will not hold good, the man who poseffes your regard,, must be happy, miss Villers, Supremely happy.”
— But you think me impertinent —
\
I know you do — I cannot help it — I am too much interested in the question, to give it up; I will Seize on one of the drawings, and keep, by way of sorseit, which you are to redeem by the Small penance of answering me one question, though that one, is but a prelude to another.” —
I was picqued Lucy, I thought he wanted clara’s picture, and took this method to get it — I theresore replied,
I Should
JL jujl xjl ra ia '* jljl X XV
I should not difplite about the drawing, which I saw his questions tended to, — though I never expected to redeem it; but I was too much tired of the Subject, to omit anything in my power to quit it. — I was disappointed, he put aside clara’s picture, which lay by him, and took a little watch paper painted with a wreath of flowers round, and a landscape in the middle. — “I chuse this madam, as I here have your name agaiiift you, Should you continue perverse.’* — He kissed it, put it in his bosom — we were both filent, — at last he broke it. — “You look grave miss Villers.” - — I shall be wretched is I have offended you — perhaps I have been too Sree in obtaining this Sweet little prize, which, highly as I value, I wdll return
turn, if you enlist on it.” — Nothing is farther from my thoughts, Sir, you are extremely welcome.” — It would be rediculous to be serious about such a trifle. — He took my hand and prefied it to his lips with fervour, said I was all considering goodness, I withdrew it, but not angrily, Lucy — I could not.
Clara Soon returned, (at least I thought So) and Said you have taken a Short walk, my dear, it is a Sign your time has passed agreeably Emma, Sori have been gone these two hours.
. — looked consused at her reply, Mr. Beaumont kindly relieved me, by telling her of Lord landmore’s fitii ation when he arrived. — I believe I
must leave off writing, since There
is
 . 163
Is so little variety in my letters — this man engrosses them all — I hate him for it. — O Lucy, I am the weakest of my sex— — to Heaven I was at liberty to come to you; would you, would your mamma receive me but I know you would, though I shall bring a very different Emma Villers from her you once knew, but though altered in every other respect, Ihe still remains the Same saithsul and affectionate friend,
EMMA VILLERS.
A
LET
X vij A XX jul IVX FXX .XA x X A
LETTER XIII
*
HENRY BEAUMONT, ESQ.
T O
CHARLES NEVILLE,
4
I
Will I accept of a limited confidence } why yes, I may as well, as that is all you offer me, — Faitfi.
ft
Charles, I pity you, though, perhaps, I deserve more myself — I feel pretty strongly, though I cannot describe those Seeiings in So lover like a manner — but that is no wonder, I have but jufi: entered the lists — by the time I am as old a veteran as you, I shall be an adept in the pity moving art,
Pnnt?
 . 165
Poor Agnds! you have a harder eart than I. — Neville, I could never ave refilled her tears — to make her our confidant too, how the devil old you have the asturance? — don’t dl me of constancy— — these roman ic princefies, who, like those of old, xpect you to Spend your youth in [iisery for the honour of being allowed 0 sigh their names — But you, it Seems, re to exceed these heroes in respect ^ m.d. not even sigh loud enough for mir saithsul Squire to hear you. I lippose the tyrant does not even iouchsase you her letters, picture, or my other pretty memento, but expects you to resuse a fine girl who is dying for you, for the mere pleasure, or honour, is you please, of dying hithsul to her idea; for the Substance,
I Sup
i66  .
I suppose, is Seen but once in Seven years. Show a little more Spirit, Beaumont, shake off these iron Setters, and put on the silken ones of the gentle Agnes, who. i’ll engage, is worth an hundred of your Statirast or roxana’s, or what ever imperial title she assumes— — much Says the friend — now comes the lover, who while advising you to quit your chains, is hugging his own, without even daring to rattle them. — It is true, my Emma is all mild and
ft
gentle, she knows not to command, but by Sweet intreatles and enchanting Smiles — yet are not these commands — and irresistible ones.
Oh, Neville, I am more a Have
4
than you! — you have been blessed— — once, you Say, was flattered with returns.
 . 167
turns. By heavens, I would submit to the severed; penance, the most tedious pilgrimage, to live one week with my Emma, on the footing of a beloved lover.
But I must not expect it — your skill, Charles, does not extend to the female heart — you cannot divine their intentions, cannot trace inclination through all the intricate labyrinth of coyness— — hour 1 exult with hope, the next fink in despair.
ft
A few nights ago, I attended her and Miss Watson to an assembly; I thought it would be a good opportunity to give a hint which way my heart inclined, to dance wdth Emma, beside,
I could not deny myself the pleasure.
But
i68  .
But when I asked her hand, it was engaged, and I thought she told me so with an air of triumph. — I could have cursed the whole sex, and swore the seeds of coquettry was born with them. — Wretch that I was, to wrong my sweet, my innocent girl, who seemed to regret fly had promised lord Landmore. — I danced with Clara, who with great good nature rallied my low Spirits; but how could I help it, to See the happy coxcomb Squeeze that dear hand, and persecute her (I Saw he did) with his gallantry — he knows not how to, w’^orfhip Such an angel. I Saw she was distatisfied, and tried to shun him — at last complained of the head ach, Clara readily agreed to go home with her, and wc retired at an early hour — I went the next morning to inquire
her
 . 169
her health; my intimacy with the fa mily gave me the privilege of entering a little drawing-room without sending in. — The first object which struck my eyes was lord Landmore kneeling at the lovely Villers’ feet — what a fight for a lover! I started back, and was retiring full of indignation, a challenge would have been the consequence; but the dear girl begged me to stay, and the contempt with which fiie treated his lordship, disarmed my anger, and he laid me under an ever lasting obligation, by taking his leave.
ff
I spent two of the fweetefi, fiiortest hours of my life alone with this idol of my soul — talked to her of love, but not my own; Ihe smiled, Ihe blushed, but when I questioned her on the free vol* I, I dom
i; o  .
■»
dom of her heart, hesitated, equivo> cated, yet was not displeased, Ihe even permitted me to keep a watch paper of her drawing, to kifs her hand — and at Miss watfon’s return, told her Ihe had taken a very short walk — this was'all flattering, Neville, but not lasting— — dined there yesterday — when Clara, who had been out of the room, returned with a gay air,
4
and presenting Mr. Watson a letter, turned to Emma — “now, my dear,
■ what will you give me for one.”
'“Oh, a great deal if its the right, ”
said stie eagerly — it cannot certainly be wrong, as it is from a lover — from your gentle Harley, giving it to her — She put it in her pocket, and looked displeased at Clara, I suppose for mentioning his name; I knew not
how
 . 171
how to conceal my chagrin, so went to the window, and taking up a book that lay there, gave a loose to thought — I had flood in this posture some minutes, when Clara came behind me, and looking over my shoulder“ “will soon be a proficient in whist, Beaumont, if you take that
method to study hoylei darted,
/
and looking at the book which I had not observed before, found I was holding the bottom upward — she laughed, teased, and romped me into better spirits. Emma looked grave, fly ali

ways does tvhen we romp — She does not like Such rough Sports, she Says; — At Supper we gave healths, and when Emma was called upon, fly eurfl my ears with the hated name of Harley — yet she named him not
I Z as
172  ,
as a lover, Ihe was not confused— — but the idea of his writing to her, made me fear my wine would choke me. Should I drink his health — that Clara delights to torment me — “you do not drink Beaumont; Emma will never forgive you if you slight her toafl.” — I was forced to comply — while the sweet smiling mifchies, Sat all unconscious of her power, — I took the liberty of giving your miftress, by the title of the lovely Agnes d’au mont. — Clara vowed she would know who file was besore she drank — Emma turned an inquiring eye, blushed crimson deep, but Said nothing, I played with the curiosity of her friend, to observe' is she interested hersels in it; but she eluded my
t
aim, by talking carelessly to her guardian
X IFLIL .n. LIA La
dian, — Miss Watson, with a glowfing check, said Mr. Villers. — I am apt to think I must know this Villers, Charles, though I cannot recollect where, what inclines me to this belief, is, that the moment I saw Mist Villers, it struck me, I had seen a similar face, though not so lovely; it certainly must be her brother; I sometimes sit and gaze at her attentively, her features are quite familiar to me, and I even seem ready
ft
to recollect their counterpart, but it always efeapes me. Perhaps this miay be Mist Watfonst lover — but what is that to me, it is not her heart I want to penetrate, it is her friends; there is foipe mystery 1 want to clear up. — We go to a masquerade next week — will there seek an oppor
I 3, tunity
174  .
» 9
tunity to disclose my passion, let what will be the consequence; ffiould I be rejected! diffiaction in that thought — but I can no longer bear suspicion, besides, this disguife is an obstacle to my hopes, — ffie confiders .me as engaged to another, and that is sufficient to make her check any fentirnents in my favour. — My fate will soon be decided, if I am fucceff less, I ffiall quit this place, and fly to you for consolation— — feel myself a coward already — what I ffiall be when the decisive moment arrives, I cannot tell
I am affiamed of myself, Neville — the gay, the gallant Henry Beaumont, that has toyed and trifled with so many of the sex, is now become the
trembling
 . 175
trembling, bashful lover. — Can Ovid recount a llranger metamorphosis? — I have this however to keep me in countenance, that every man equally in love, is equally rediculous. Adieu, Neville — I shall write you an account of my eclairciftement — join with me in wisliing success to all the votaries of Cupid — at the head of whom I place you, and your friend and servant,
HENRY BEAUMONT
P. S. I hope your dawn of hope, is by this, broke into the day of certainty.
I 4 LET
170 llijiv lvlald± in A U IN I IX
LETTER XIV
Misa LUCY SEVILLE
\
O
ft
MISS EMMA VILLERS.. Dear Emma, Weft grove*
1 WILL not tell you from what
source your present discontent arises, you are, I am certain, too well apprised of it, but the mifeheif is not irremediable. — Absence is a, certain curenot that I can by any means think that is necessary in your cafe., I still assert from your account, that Miss watfon’s behaviour, plainly indicates that She regards not Mr., Beaumont as a lover, as his does;
that
o f •
that Ihe is not the object of his affections; but your extreme diffidence, makes you look on his attentions to you, in a different light from what moult of our sex would, kithe same situation. But I cannot, at this diffance, presume to judge with any certainty — only this, if you can Summon; Sufficient resolution to break those tender ties that engage you in London,, and Sora while exchange them, for the sincere friends; wffio long to embrace you; I have no doubt, but my dear Emma would Soon again recover her tranquillity, this certainly would be the most advisable,. which ever way the affair terminates.. — But, ah! I Sear this is more than; you, my dear friend, with all your
ft
prudence and Sortitude, can prevail; on yoursels to do. — Forgive your
I 5. Lucy„
• ^
Lucy, if ffie speaks too freely On this tender subject— — friendihip urges me to advise, to entreat, for your health, for your peace sake, to fly to this asylum, where both will be secure; every soothing consolation your Lucy could impart, you may depend on; my dear mamma would think llie could never enough express the pleasure your company would give her — I told her, on the receipt of your lassi had Some hopes of Seeing you, ffie was delighted at the
hint, and charged me to write im
>
mediately, and omit no argument that could induce you to come. — I would gladly obey Such pleasing injunctions, but I depend more on my dear emma’s prudence, than my own persuafion, I am Sure the more ffie confiders, the
piore
THE MAIUEN AUNT. 179
r
more eligible Ihe will think such a retreat. — Mr. and Mrs. Watson, I make no doubt, will readily comply.
4
• ft
Clara will, I fear, oppose it wfith all her power, but Ihe knows not the reasons that require it. Mr. Beaumont must then difeover his views; Should you, my dear, like to be present on that occasion?? — know you would not, let those views be ever so agreeable. — I have a strong presentiment that everything is going as I could wilh — the ball night — the succeeding morning, all agree to confirm that opinion. — Colonel Walter has left
R -- -- J and is gone to Bath for the
recovery of his health, which had fustered a great deal by his accident,
I hope it will have a good effect, and inspire him with worthier sentiments
I 6 — as
— as to myself, I now heartily for give him, and thank Heaven, for the discovery of his business, as I am convinced, had his intentions been perfectly honourable, he was not the man to make me happy, the violence of his temper, the gaiety of his disposition was ill suited to my notions of a partner for life, though at that time, my reason was too much fascinated to point out these objections. — I have not heard a syllable from Miss Walter since my return — I wrote a letter of thanks, to which - I have received no answer, nor do I wilh it; it is; I am Sully convinced, an improper connexion, from which I could have received neither honour nor satissaction. I every day recollected Some circumstance of her con
4 duct,
JL njc. miliuxlvi auinl. lat
duct, that Shows her morals not the strictest. But I was every way blind.
Adieu, my dear Emma— — hope your next will tell, me when to expect you, or what (in spite of self) will be still more pleasing, that your affairs wear another face; that the supposed lover of Miss Watson, is the declared one of Miss Villers, and that — but 1 fear I shall offend you in giving way to the dictates of my heart, which warmly interests itself in your happiness— — know not how to conclude, though I have nothing more to say, but repeated asturances of that esteem and affection which I am sure you do not doubt, and which will ever glow in the faithful bosom of your
LUCY BEVILLE,
LETTER XV
MISS EMMA VILLERS
TO
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
4
Dear Lucy, St. james’s ftreet.
X Must fly from this place so fatal to my repose— — this too charming, too insinuating man; my peace, my health, my honour demand the painful sacrifice, would to heaven it had been made sooner. Oh, Lucy, what have I not fnffered, what do I still suffer? Mr. and Mrs. Watson look ' coolly on me; clara’s behaviour is impenetrable, fly treats me with tenderness its true, but then fly is so suspicious,
TWE malujiin /iuinl. 183
picious, so reserved, and foi know not how; perhaps the fault is in my * yet it’s odd fly Should try to persuade Mr. Beaumont I am engaged — I received a letter from Mr. Harley to apologise for his father’s" uncouth treatment the last time we were together, and to beg a continuance of my friendihip; She took occasion from this, and my drinking his health, to insinuate he was a favoured lover — Ihe may have views in this — I shall not attempt to undeceive Mr. Beaumont, it’s nothing to me. — Oh my sweet girl, all the sex are alike, vain and fond of conquest— — unguarded conduct has,
I fear, betrayed the weakness of this
/
Soolilh heart, and Mr, Beaumont would encourage and flatter this Satal prepollelfion till it was past cure; alas,
I Sear
y
1 fear it is so already — but he shall not triumph, I will at least conceal, if I cannot conquer this stubborn, passion, but flight alone can save me from the disgrace of loving without return, from the horror of loving the husband of my friend, as he soon no doubt will be; everything conspires to fam the hopeleft flame, gratitude now becomes an ally ta love; how can I. struggle with such potent powers! — • Oh, Lucy, I will tell you all,, then judge if ever heart was fb beset as. mine.
p
Clara had engaged to go to the
4
Masquerade with Miss Beaumont, her brother,, and Sir George Mellifon, and promised for me, but I absolutely refused to be of the party, and withstood;
her
«
 , i
her entreaties, and the still more powerful ones of her lover; but fly at last overcame me by (aying, if I persisted (he must let Miss Beaumont know, as nothing should prevail on her to go without me.
I yielded, I could not help it, as file seemed to be very desirous of going, and thought myself rewarded in the pleasure (he expressed at my compliance. Beaumont too appeared de lighted, and would assist in the choice
of our dresses— — was an Indian
0
Princess;; begged hard for a domino, but they would not hear of stand after much altercation, a quaker’s; was agreed on, which I preferred to a more gaudy habit.
Ws
j86  .
We sat out from Sir harry’s — every One but your poor Emma in high spirits, but I, had no inclination for the amusement I was going to partake of — rather be a spectator of. I was, however, (truck with the magnificence of the scene, but my attention was soon cfflled off by the impertinent witticisms of the malks, who persecuted me with the merest nonfense and ribbaldry that can be conceived; I never past a more disagreeable evening. Mr, Beaumont, who was in a, Turkilh habit, seemed desirous of
engaging me in some discourse, but was prevented by a gentleman in a black domino, who never stirred from my fide, notwithstanding the crowd was So great that I was Several times Separated from our party to my no
Small
 . 187
4
small terror; however, my black at
I
tendant was tolerably civil, and said but little; I had some suspicion it was lord Landmore, but the voice was disguised. A little before we retired I missed him, and concluded he was tired of such a dull companion, and ► had fought one more agreeable.
At last, to my great joy, Clara complained of fatigue, and Miss Beaumont consented to return home. Mr. Beaumont proposed Seeing miss Watson to her chair first, and as the crowd was great, desired me to sit till he could return, as he could better conduct us Separately — he left me by his sister and Sir George mellison, but they changed their Seat, and 1 lost sight of diem in a moment — I was surprised
to
i88  ,
to see Beaumont so soon returning, as I thought he could not have reached the door — he came to me, took my hand, and hastily led me out another way, whispering there was. more room • — 1 followed him, as I had no suspicion, and waited in another room while he went to see if my chair was got to the door; this, took up sometime — I then fustered him to put me
r
in — I was too much lost in thought, to mind which way they carried me, till the chair stopped in a narrow ftreer^ and a man wrapped in a cloak took me in his arms, and attempted to lift me into a ehaise — I Screamed and
m
fainted, what passed I know not, till I recovered and found mysels in a chair, supported in the arms of Mr. Beaumont, who was holding
 . 189
de luce bottle to my nose— — cannot remember the particulars that paflfed, only that he was all tenderness, and I suppose I all folly — but we soon arrived in St. james’s flreet; the whole family was in consternation, Clara was weeping, her father and mother in vain endeavouring to console her; the moment I entered the room, she flew with open arms and embraced me with unaffected joy Oh my Emma, had any accident happened, never should I have forgave myself for persuading you to go to that vile place.”
I could only answer with my tears — fly
t
attended me to my room, and told me the other particulars of this adventure — Mr. Beaumont had been de ceived by a lady in my dress, as I had by a gentleman in his — I will be more
cir
190  .
circumstantial when we meet— — cannot help observing it has the appearance of a stratagem. I suspect lord Landmore, but conceal my suspicions for fear of mischief— — was entirely accident, or rather Providence, brought Mr. Beaumont this way. But, Oh .Lucy, why should he at such a time endeavour to impose on my credulity? Why try to make me forget he was the lover of Miss Watson; but never can that be effaced from rny memory one moment,
I passed a sleepless night, as indeed I mostly do. Mr. Beaumont came in the morning — I was up, though really very ill — I faltered out my acknow
V
ledgements very awkwardly, I believe; he was more than usually amiable;
the
 . 191
the vivacity of his look and manner
♦
was changed into a pleasing melancholy; he addrefted his conversation to me with a respectful tenderness, that melted me into tears; his own fine eyes seemed ready to Sympathise; he expressed his concern at my apparent indispofition, and earnestly recommended to Clara the care of my health, hoping, he said, to find me persectly recovered at his return from Oxford, where he was to go next day, as he had engaged to meet Several gentlemen there : adding, he had half a mind to disappoint them, as he had no inclination to the excursion— — endeavoured to find out whether I knew the person who had followed me so closely at the masquerade, saying, he had no doubt that was the villain,
who
192  ;
who had ctcaped while he was taking care of me, I trembled at the vehemence with which he spoke of the affair, and assured him I had not the leaf: knowledge of him. — Heaven forbid it Should ever be discovered— — cannot support the thought of any inquiries after it — Mr. and Mrs. Watson were present during the conversation, with which they seemed not much pleased— — took the firs opportunity of speaking to my guardian when Clara was absent, and begged his permission to pay you a visit, saying, I found my health decline in London, and the late affair made me still more wish to quit it — he readily consented, and I fixed next Tuesday for my departure — Beaumont is not to return dll Wednesday— — my
reso
 . 193
resolution, Lucy. — For Oh! it costs me dear — ■! shall see him no more.
I dreaded to insorm Clara of my intentions, but it was necessary— — told her in the presence of her papa and mamma — fly protested against it with earneflness, and conjured me not to think of it, — what should she do without me? — I Summoned up all my resolution, and begged her not to op
9
pose So necessary a step— — her, is Ihe should be happy is I staid till my health was irretrievably impaired, which must be the certain consequence of my staying in town, and promised
to meet her at her return to Wood
\
— Mr. and Mrs. watson assisted me in persuading her, and She at last, though with great reluctance, con
vol. I. K Seated,
194  .
s
fented, on condition we Should all be lat wood park early in the spring.
i am happy, Lucy, this point is fettled; it is now out of my power to recede.: — My absence will make Mr. Beaumont reflect; on the impropriety of his behaviour — they will soon be united; love cannot exist without hope, nor can this bosom harbour a crimi nal passion— — will then be the husband of my friend; — as such, 1 shall regard him, I am Sure I shall, Lucy. Edmund too will then exert himsels, and lose miss watson in Mrs. Beaumont — be still thou reflless, fluttering heart, it must be so — Heaven Sees it’s for the best— — thy erring wishes, nor dare repine they are not
gra
« *
 . 19^
gratified — Remember, that he who rules thy fate,
“From seeming evil still educes good,
“And better thence again and better still. In infinite progrellion, sccf
Receive with gratitude his blessing (for blessings only Slow from him) in whatever shape they appear. — I ain happy when I can get into this train of thought — stis only in a persect resignation to the divine will, we can hope for peace; but this resignation is not easily attained.
I have indulged mysels in writing this long letter to you, my dear friend, though it will reach you only a Sew days besore me — Clara will accompany me twenty miles, and two of my guardians’ men attend me through
K 2 ’’.e
196  .
the journe}^ — On Tuesday night I hope to embrace you and your good mamma — open your heart, as well as arms, my Lucy, to receive a trembling fugitive, who flies to you far Ihelter from her own yveaknefs — that most dangerous enemy, because least feared — How little time ago did I boast my safety— — meant not to deceive, but was deceived rnyfelf; J depended on my reason to Secure me, but reason as well as fancy admired Henry Beaumont — admiration I called it, but, Oh Lucy, it was.love! love at first sight, could T have believed it? Oh what a fool I am to dwell thus on the subject— — Oh my friend, never let it be mentioned when we meet, but teach me, like
you,
 . 197
yon, to triumph over an improper inclination, and to be again, the; happy indifferent. — Let me devote to friendship every tender Sentiment and for ever remain your
EMMA VILLERS.
t
*
A
4
9
4
K 3 LET
/ -
 ,
♦
LETTER XVI
HENRY BEAUMONT, ESQ,
T O
CHARLES NEVILLE, esqj,
#
London —
t
She is gone, Neville; gone for
ever, I fear! fled without even bidding me farewell — just as I was beginning to flatter myself with hopes, she has left me, left me to despair— — that I was, to let any engagement draw me from London, at such
a time
a time too — but I am punished for my folly,.
I told you in my last, that we were to go to a mafqiierade, and that I Intended to take that opportunity to' cdifclofe my passion— — in love than ever, I tried every method to get her
f
one moment to myself, but Twas iiiv •vain, the lovely quaker was too attractive to be without attendants — one in particular in a black domino was perpetually at her elbow — I at last laid aside all thoughts of declaring myfels that night, as I observed ftie was fatigued and difpleased, even to the loling, in Some degree, her native mildness,
K 4 miss.
300  .
Miss Watson proposed retiring, as the place was very full. I left Emma with my Sister and Sir George mellison, till I had conducted her friend to her chair; I then returned for my sweet quaker; I Sound her,, as I thought, in the very place I lest her, but Sir George and Letitia were gone; I took her hand and led her to her chair, which I Sollowed in my own — When we stopped in St. jamesst ftreet, I handed her out; but judge of my aftonilhment when a strange Sace appeared, and • the lady exclaimed, “For heaven’s Sake where am I? who are you. Sir ?” I told her the mistake in haste— — Said, Ihe had been deceived in the Same manner, as Ihe expected a gentleman in the dress I was in, and begged ftie might be
imme
 . 201
immediately carried back. I was too agitated to think of detaining her, though the moment Ihe was gone I began to fear it was a plot — I recollected I had called her Mist Villers; and beside, her behaviour soke not in her favour.
I was half distracted, and sat out with two of Mr. Watfonst fervar ts to Soho, but went con''derably out of the way to call at my father’s, in hopes ihe might be there with Letitia — this was an improbable conjecture, but a lucky one. — As I was turning a corner, I heard a scream that pierced my heart, and Saw in the opposite fireet a chair and pofi chaise in waiting; I flew to the place, bid the Sellows Secure the chairmen, and roughly
K 5 pushed
202 THE MAIDEN AUN.D
pushed aside a man wrapped in a cloak, who was endeavouring to lift a lady out of the chair. I instantly saw it was my Emma, who was fainting with horror — while I was engaged with her, the cowardly villain got into the chaise and escaped— — could curse
i
my own careleflhcfs, to which he owes his safety— — I was too much alarmed at the deathlike appearance of my angel, to pursue him, I only thought how to get her home. I got into the
chair, and told the chairman to carry
\
us to Mr. Watfonst, where I intended
to question them who their employer
>
was. I supported the sweet girl in
*
my arms, and tried by tender words and caresfes to call her back to life, but at last recollected a fmelling bot tle of my fifterst, which I fortunately
had
» - - ^
r •. • -..
had in my pocket; this had the desired effect:; Ihe recovered, but finding herself in the arms of a man,, again faintly screamed; I pressed her to my beating hea tj and in the kindest, softest terms that love could die
^ -
tate, begged her to be composed, and told her vvhat had happened.' At the sound of my voice she Started; and • when I had insormed her of the danger she had been in, tried to articulate her th nks, but could not; she burst into a flood of tears, and sunk upon my shoulder; I Seared she would again Saint — “Why, my angel, why this emotion, do you envy me this momentary Selicity? alas, my joy at preserving you, is already damped by the cruel reflection, that it is for Harley, the happy Harley! but to have
K 6 been
\
been serviceable to you on any terms, is rapture! ” I put her hand to my lips, She drew it hastily away. “Can you, Mr. Beaumont, can you take an ungenerous advantage of my situation to make me wretched, only to gratify your vanity? excuse me, Sir — Miss ‘watfon — I am not to be deceived — as to Mr. Harley — but it Cannot concern you — Oh do not trifle.” — Her voice was flopped by her emotion — it was with difficulty fly had spoke, but I was delighted, I was intoxicated with her words. I was beginning to justify my proceeding, to prove the reality of my passion, when the servant rapped at Mr. watfon’s door; I cursed their haste, which obliged me to defer my explanation.
I led the sweet trembling creature into
the
the room where the family was altein bled; the meeting between Emma and her Glara was pathetic — I shall ever love Miss watson for her friendihip to this dear girl. — We all tried to learn from her who the villain was that carried her off, but Ihe proseffed ignorance, and Soon retired. The chairmen too were examined, but there was nothing to be got from them, but “A gentleman had hired them in the morning, and engaged them to be in waiting all the evening; that it was not their buliness to alk questions.”
At my return home I Sound a card, which reminded me I was to be at oxsord the next day but one, by appointment; it came from one of the
party.
2o6  .
party, who proposed calling on me,
and desired me to be ready. — You
may suppose, Charles, I had no great
»
inclination for this jaunt, but I was foolish enough to imagine, there was a necefiity for keeping my word, and beside, thought a week’s absence could do no mifeheif. — 'I went next mlorning, to see how my Emma did, after her last night’s adventure — I found her with Mrs. Watson and Clara — fly was quite ill, could hardly speak— — thanked me for my care of her in the most bewitching accents.
, — I found there was no' hopes of feeing her alone that day, so took my leave, and the next, fet out for Oxford, with a heavy heart — all our amusements were tiresome and insipid, but there Was no getting away,
though
AM AM M a MM M T MA ^ MS Am ^ w y
though they complained of my being dull company; at length, the day of reparation arrived — I got to London early enough, to pay my compliments at Mr. watfon’s — I found them at home, but not feeing Miss Villers, inquired after her — I hope Ihe is well, said Clara, but Ihe is gone — “Gone madam — gone wfiiere ?” — “Into the country, Mr. Beaumont — Bless me! what is the matter ?” — with one of her arch looks. I could not Charles, for my soul, I could not dissemble my chagrin, but sat filent and immoveable, as if just blasted by a stroke from Heaven, — I however soon recollected, that the only chance I had for feeing her again, was, by .continuing my intimacy with her guardian’s family; — I therefore cleared
up
4
200 Jinii ivj.nil»jc.in aujni.
up my countenance as well as I could, and began flirting with miss watson; I ventured to inquire of
4
her the reason of miss villers’s abrupt
t
departure, and where She was gone — fly told me that London did not agree with her, and that the country air, Ihe thought necessary for the re eftablifliment of her health — but that perhaps there were other reasons — She Set out, I find, the day besore I returned, on purpose, I Sear, to avoid me — for llie knew when I was expected. — Oh Charles, — She has, I Sear, a mean opinion of me; perhaps thinks me the despicable wretch Ihe hinted in the chair — yet then I imputed all to love. — Her sost consufion. — Oh, let me not remember it — I was too blessed; — Sar, Sar, too blessed, to press her
un
 , 209
unreluctant to my breast, and warm her sweet cold cheek with ardent kifsesi — never again shall I touch those lips — but was I happy? no, her in fenlibiiity, by which I attained these favours, prevented me from enjoying
4
them — but I cannot npw, prcss that dear hand, which has sometimes remained passive in mine — all my happiness is vanished like a dream perhaps llie is with Harley — I will fly, I will tear her from him, he shalt resign him or his life. — But what right have I to control her? — Shall I ostend, and make her hate, because Ihe cannot love me? — no, her lover is safe, I would rather die than lift my arm agahifl: him — I will turn my resentment against: the wretch who dared to insult her,. I will find him
out
210  .
out and sacrifice him — Why would Ihe not difeover him? — I then flattered myself it • was out of regard to my safety— — it could not be. — Oh Neville, you have loved, pity my disappointment, and have patience with my ravings. — I will be more calm. I got away from Mr. Watfonst as soon as I decently could, it is now three days ago, and 1 have not been there since— — cannot bear the house, everything I see there reminds me of what I have lost — yet soit does everywhere; every voice reminds me of one more foster; every face of one more lovely — foi may as well go to Mr. watfon’s, it is only there I can hope to hear of my charmer — I shall not close my letter still my return, as I would fain conclude
 . 211
elude in a style a little more like my own; and without some comfortable intelligence, I feel no postibility of getting out of the penforofo. — Alas, poor Beaumont! — I am returned, Neville, with no other consolation, than we are all (women, as well as men) mere feathers, which that little mifehievous urchin, Cupid, puffs about for sport— — I have made a greater discovery than this, though nothing to myself, nothing of my Emma. — I was obliged ta invent a hundred pretences to excuse my long absence, and acquitted myself awkwardly enough; I then inquired of Miss Watson, with the most careless air I could astume, if she had heard from her friend, stie said the servants wffio attended her, brought
word
212 itul mall^iljn AUJNTV
%
word file gof safe through her journey, but was much fatigued, and that Ihe every day expected a letter.' — I found myself iinabl'c to keep up the conversation, soled Clara to the harp
4
fichord, and begged fiie would with harmony, banish the evil genius that possessed me. — “Then I find there are more than one of these troublesome diemons, for one of them has been my confiant attendant since Emma
A
left me. — What time did yours visit you, Beaumont?” — “Onot so long, but Tni quite tired of him. So begin and chase him away.” — She complied, and obligingly completed the Savour, by singing a Savourite air of miss villers’s. — it was her tune, her words, but not her voice, though a fine one; perhaps a, finer, than that which I died
to
y
 . 213
* * ^ I 9.
t bear. — Miss Watson is a proficient in music, yet I hear her without any of that enthusiasm, with which the ^rtlefs warblings of my Emma, inspires me. — ’tis she alone, can touch the: secret springs and movements of ■my Toul, and tune it all to harmony and rapture. — But to return to my fubject ^clara had just finished
ft •
her' song and was looking over her mufic book, when a servant brought Mr. Watson a letter; — he opened it, and starting after he had read a line or two, exclaimed, — rash, unthinking boy — what can I do? ^mrs. Watson hastily inquired what he meant, he returned no answer, but read as follows “I am sincerely afflicted at the melancholy event, which I think it northeast ■cestary to inform you of, — Mr. Villers,
for
.214  ;
for whose acquaintance I thought myself so much obliged to you, has been ini Paris Some time, though I did not see him till yesterday, when I Sound bim to all appearance dead, from lost of blood— — had I find been en gauged in a duel — but cannot learn the name or quality of his antagonist, who was So inhuman, to leave him in ‘that condition.” — All our attention
t
bad., been fixed on this dreadsul account, Mr. watson was proceeding,
I turned my eyes on Clara, — who was Sunk back'in her chair, without sense or motion. I flew to her assistance, and alarmed the Sond father and mother, who had not observed her situation, as She sat b.c. hhid. ^the whole house was Soon in motion,, every remedy Seemed Sora
time
THE MAIDEN AU NT i
timc: inefficacious — Mrs. Watson wept,
m
and wrung her hands — “She is dead — my child is dead, — oh, Mr. Watson, what have you done At, lafl she opened her eyes, sighed out, “Oh, Edmund, ” and again closed them, as if the light was hateful to her— — women conveyed her to her chamber, and left me to comfort the old gentleman; or rather mourn with him, for my heart was deeply affected with the Scene of diftress., I had been witness to. As for Mr. watson, he Seemed hals distracted, between his daughter and her lover, who he has; a real regard for. “Oh, Mr. Beaumont, what will become of me, is nny accident Should happen to, this dear girl, from my imprudence, but I thought that there was no love Subsist
ing
: zi6.  .
fing between them — as you may fup pefe, Sir, from the treaty I entered into with Sir Harry; and indeed I hoped everything was going as I willed, between you and Glara — butt now shall be glad to find that your heart is not in the affair, for though I Should prefec you as a fon, to any young man I know, yet I can never think of exerting the authority of a parent, in such a cafe.” — I begged him to be peifectly easy on that head, as I frankly owned my affections were fixed on another object, as I had dong thought Miss watfon’s were; but in the mean time, desired he would make an end of the fatal letter, as I hoped we Should there find dbm.e consolation for his daughter, it .however gave but little — the wound
was
 . 217
*1
/
. was dangerous, and attended with a fever; the gentleman however, promised to write again in a day or two,, ill the mean time, assured him, no care or attendance Should be wanting to Mr. Villers, of whom he spoke in yery high terms, “He is indeed. Said the old gentleman, a worthy youth — I know not how to blame my daughter for her partiallity — wc perceived Something of it, between three and Sour years ago, but as they were very young, thought it only a childish sondness, which absence. would efface, I theresore kept Edmund abroad, as I thought Clara might do better in point of Sortune. Fathers, Mr. Beaumont, are apt to be ambitious for their children; I wilh to See my girl in a Splendid Yol,. I. L station.
2i8  .,
station, which I thought with pride,, her merit and fortune entitled her to. Mr. Villers has a bare thousand. a year, — but all my hopes are fruf ' trated — I am surprised what could keep up this unlucky stame — I am certain, they did not correspond,, and Emma promised me stie would discourage it on both fides; stie is a good girl, I can hardly think stie has deceived me.” I recommended to him his daughter’s happiness, which Seemed to depend on the as sair, and aster inquiring is stie was better,, and been answered in the as
strmative,, took my leave. It was
/
Some time besore I Selt my own missortunes, So entirely was my heart engrosted by the unhappy Situation, of these lovers — but envy Soon Succeeded
eeeded pity. Oh, what would I give to be in villers’s situation, to have my Emma feel for me, as Miss Watson does for him? May he live to repay her tenderness, She is a truly estimable woriian all I Sear is, that he may not have been So eonstant, — duels Seldom happen without love.
— I told you this discovery did not
✓
concern me, but it really does, it is the beloved brother of my Emma — it is her dearest friend, — I hope they will conceal it from her; a tale So' tender as this would be Suffieient to melt her gentle heart, even did She know it fictitious, what effect must it have on her then, when thou So dear to her, are concerned. — She could not I am Sure, Support it.
I Sent
\
220  ,
I sent to Mr. watfon’s this moring,, compliments of inquiry, the young lady has been iu the hysterics all night, but is now better, and is inclined to steep — this is as well as 1 expected — a favourable account from. France, will fet all right there, as her parents are too fond to perfist in making her unhappy. — One of my difficulties too, is removed — but alas! the greatest still remain, I am not beloved, Charles — that is the rub. As to my father: — I do not much fear his consent— — wishes to fc e me married, and is very fond of Miss Villers, whom he calls his little syren' ' — he respects her on account of her family, which he says is very ancient and honourable, this would have great weight — it is his foible. —
5 But
 . 221
But to what purpose Should I Solieit his consent, unless I had hers — I cannot bear the thought of being rejected. — I must talk with Clara, and try to learn from her, what chance I stand for success; adieu, Neville — this is the longest letter I ever wrote — but his all I am now sit for.' — I expected to have heard from you long ago — how does your Sair Agnes? — i Is your tyrant grown kind? or do you still continue in the Same unsortunate class of lovers with your friend
HENRY BEAUMONT;
P. S, Mr. watson has just: been here, — Villers is out of danger, though very weak, but the Sever has left him, and the wound is in a Sair way,
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
f
T H E
MAIDEN AUNT.
VOL. IL
A
0
/
\
9 ^ ^
\
A
9
JI.
*
f
ft
/
/ »
♦ ■ ^ *
N.
ar
A
\
f
« / • *
/
■ C
I. • ^ ’ •
•..
^ 0
‘V
r ■
%
f ^
• 9 '
r ft
• * *'
V •
ft
ft
I
«
\ *..
• * V ♦ ’
ft
ft
M
t
$ '
\ ft
#
Jt .lxr
MAIDEN AUNT.
WRITTEN BY A LADY.
t
I
♦
IN THREE VOLUMES
0
V o L ir.
E O ir D O' N i
i
PRINTED FOR. J. BEW, PATER noster ROW' '

I
4
% ^
/
y
MAIDEN AUNT,
A
letter XVII
MISS EMMA villers;
T O
MISS CLARA WATSON.’
West grove.
Oh, my dear Clara, I have such an
adventure to relate to you! so unexpected! so unhoped for! that I can hardly credit my own senses, which tell me it is real. — But I will not anticipate, you shall proceed regularly, and * ' vol. IL B attend
r
r
r
tf
ir
My .0. mm A V A. m.p. .0900 M ^9 ^ M ^ M 9
L attend me to the event as it happened,
% •
When you bade me farewell, my heart sunk to the lowest: state of de
• -- F r — ’■■ ' ■ 'r -. m'. ' *
fpondence; unused to such a painful Separation, I almost repented my resolution, and willed to accompany
\ •
you to London, — but my reasons for the contrary were too urgent, to Suffer me to recede. I proceeded in my
m
Journey, absorbed in melancholy reflections. When I came to the part of the road which conducted me first from the place of my birth, with you, my Clara, and your papa, I Selt again all those painsul emotions, which not all your tenderness could then suppress; I recollected every object which Sorrow
* XX X. IVX XX X xy X, XX w X. }
r’
row had impressed too strongly on my mind to be effaced: At this house (said I to myself) I wept to think on that I had quitted, — at this turning I cast a longing look; a last I then thought it, towards the happy scenes of my infancy; — but when I arrived at the very spot I felt quite different sensations— — cannot describe them; the house stiut, the adjoining walks neglected, all looked deserted and gloomy. Not as when my dear father pleased himself in improving every spot. I passed too,
Clara, by the church where my father. and my scarce remembered mother lie intered; ah why, said I, bursting
I
B z into
9
into tears, wffiy did you not take with you, your hapless orphans? — At this instant Lucy met me, stie stew out of her chaise to embrace me, I had hardly strength to return her carestes; stie had not expected me so soon, and thought to have met me at the last stage : the affectionate reception I met with from this dear girl, and her worthy mamma, soon dissipated the gloom that had before taken possession of me, and I resumed my serenity. Lucy, ^ however, wept at my languid appearance, but Mrs. Beville tells me my native air will soon restore my health; but alas I doubt it. I expected to have found more alteration
in
 .?
in my Lucy, as four years at her time of life is a great while; she is to be sure more womanly, and handsomer, but still Ihe is the same girl. You wouldbe vastly pleased with her little delicate figure, and innocent face; she has something peculiarly attractive, both in her person and manner, her sweet blue eyes, flaxen locks, and blooming complexion, with her rural dress, makes her convey an idea of a wood nymph. The pleasure they expressed in my company, gave me a sincere satisfaction, and we chat ted away the evening very agreeably; Lucy attended me to my chamber, but soon left me, as she always steeps
B 3 in
6  .
in her mamma’s room; she was no Sooner gone than Jermyn, with tears in her eyes, cried, “Dear madam, don’t ypu remember poor Patty, your nurse maid, that married the gamekeeper?” ?” “Surely, Jermyn,
very well, his name was Miles, they
;
live in the next village, don’t they “Oh madam, the poor creature is in the greatest distress, her husband is just dead, he laid ill So long that they were Sorced to part with everything they had been able to Save, to pay doctors; he was buried about a week ago, and stie is brought to bed since;; Patty! I have been crying ever since I heard of it.” I was pleased
with
 . 7
With jermyn’s sensibility, and felt myself greatly affected. I asked if Mrs. Beville knew her situation, but she said no; the servant had not informed her of it. I told her I would send heir in the morning with a trifle to aflifi: the poor widow, who has four children; but waking myself pretty early, I got up, and as it was a fine frosty morning, resolved to go myself, as I thought
«
it might be taken kinder, and as I well remembered her tenderness to me when a child. The village was about two miles off, but I knew Mrs. Beville
f
breakfasted late, and intended to be back in time. I entered the house, which too plainly spoke the indigence
B 4 of
8  .
of its inhabitants; two fine, though ragged boys, flood eating water gruel out of a broken pan, without the least fire; I asked for their mother, they told me she was upstairs, I ascended,
I
and in a kind of lost, upon a bed so miserable, that it scarcely deserved the name, lay the poor woman; this wretched couch, an old chair, a joint stool, and a box, was the only furniture; — her daughter, a girl of about eleven, was her attendant, and just then giving her something to drink. I cannot describe her joy, when I told her my name, for she did not recollect: me; T expressed my concern to stnd her in such bad circumstances. “Ah,
my
THE M A I D E N A U N T. 9
my dear young lady, ” said die, “I little expected to have seen such hard
ft
times when I lived with your worthy family; they were happy days, indeed; I lived very comfortable till my poor husband— — she sobbed bitterly — I
■endeavoured to comfort her, and af
$
her of my affifiance; — You are very good, my dear young mistress, but thank God I am much better off than I have been, God Almighty has not forsaken the widow and fatherless— — two little boys were three da}’i5 ago picking up some slicks in Mr. frankford*s park, who lives at the end of the village, and one of the servants huffed them for going too nea: r
B 5 the
/
 .
4
0
the house, and threatened to beat them; a lady who was visiting there, happening to pafs by, alked Dickey what he cried for, and the poor boy as well as he could, told his piteous story, — Ihe gave him half a crown, and the next day was lb condescending to come herself to my poor cottage; — Oh! She is a blested lady, may God reward her for her goodness; before
♦ •ft
then I had neither fire nor the com
\
necestaries of life, but She gave me money to get everything that
5
could do me good, and clothed the
\
little insant, Sori had Scarce a rag .to wrap it in.” I was sitting talking of
her benefactress, with the insant in my
.4
THE M A I U LI JN A U IN i. 11
lap, the little boy opened the door, and a lady about forty years of age entered the room : I was siruck wfitli the gracefulness of her appearance, and the something more than benignity of her countenance, in which was blendid dignity and humility; L I could have adored her as Charity in a human shape, or rather the three cardinal virtues united — I rose and ^
offered her the only chair,, with the respect due to Some Superior being; but she inlified with great svveetness, on my keeping my Seat,, and placing hersels on the bed, Spoke thus, — “I am glad,, good woman, to find you So much better,, and that your behaviour hash
6 entitled
¥
12  .
entitled you to countenance and pro tection; this young lady’s visit, does equal honour to you, and to herself; it attests your honesty, and the goodness of her own heartexcufe me, madam, turning to me, — but there are few of your age and appearance to be found in scenes like this.” “You are very good, madam; but I could expect: no less from your kindness to this poor ' woman, who is indeed an object of general charity, but who has a double claim to mine, from the care She took of my insancy, So there is little praise due to me for affording her any as liftance in my power.” “Your merit is not the less, added she. Smiling, charity cannot be Sounded on a nobler basis than gratitude you was
nurse
1 ±1 Ji ivl A 1 J > Ji IN Ji U in 1, 13
nurse to this young lady, who is now so prettily returning.it to your child ?’* “Yes, an please your ladyship.. a woeful hour I left her worthy family, where I led a happy life; I was hired just before Miss was born, and lived there six years; my good mistress died after I had been there twa years, and then as I was always very fond of the sweet children, Mr. Villers intruded them wholly to my care,, and I hope I did my duty.” “Mr. villers i” interrupted the lady, “Mr Villers did you say? is this his daug ter? — is your name Miss Villers ?” — ■ “Yes, madam, Emma Villers.” “I' cannot doubt it, ” returned Ihe, “you equally resemble both your parents.”
Then rising with precipitation, threw
her
14  .
her arms round me, and wept upoir
1
my neck. My amazement at her behaviour was lost in tenderness for her emotions, in which I sympathised, without knowing why. At last, recovering in some degree her composure.. “are no doubt surprised Mils Villers, at my conduct, but lam no stranger to your family — I knew your father” — here stie sighed— — “mother too was once my dearest: friend; but this is no place for particular explanations; where can I See ou,, dear? I have affairs of moment to acquaint, you with, too much to your advantage to be delayed; besides.. long to gain a place in your affections; tell me then where and when I shall sea
you.’^ I told her I would with pleasure
1 n XL m IA X JA XL IS IS X. 15
sure attend her, or receive her at Mrs beville’s, where I was quite at home.
She approved of the last, and promised to come in the afternoon, desiring there might be no company. I said she might depend on it, even Mrs.. Beville or her daughter would not be present, unless agreeable. “Oh by; all means, my dear Miss Villers, they are your friends, and of course mine.”
I then gave a trifle to Patty, who laid filent with wonder, and took my leave, as it was late, and I feared Mrs.
Beville would be uneasy at my stay.
My thoughts were sufficiently employed in my walk home on the morning’s ad veniure, but which the more I reflected on, puzzled me the more; I could no
how account for the lady’s tender
■ * \
• ^
treatment.
 ..
treatment, nor the uncommon emoc tions She expressed at my name; my own feelings were equally strange— — at firsts sight inspired me wfith Sentiments of love and reverence. At my return I Sound Mrs. Beville and Lucy waiting breaksaft, I insormed them the cause and event of my ramble j they were equally at a loss with myself who this stranger could be; however, it raised my expectations of the afternoon scene. We had not long dined when I saw my new acquaintance alight from an elegant equipage; I attended at the door with n stuttering heart, and conducted her to the drawing-room, introducing her jo Mrs. Beville in the best manner I could; as soon as we were seated, and; -
the
 . 17
the first compliments over, our visitor, with that air of frankness peculiar ta herself, addrested Mrs. Beville with a smile“ “are not to suppose, madam, that this visit is entirely in consequence of my rencounter with Miss Villers this morning, I had before intended myself the pleasure of waiting on you, though I freely confess, on the account of your young friend, who, with her brother, is the only motive that brought me into this
s
part of England; you look surprised, you in particular, my Sweet mifsvillers, are anxious for an explanation, I am no less so; did you ever hear of a, Mrs. Delmain, a sister of your mamma’s ?” “Often, madam, my
papa has spoke of her in very high
tdrmc
18  .
terms, but I had never the pleasure of knowing so dear a relation, and was taught never to expect it from some family disagreement, the particulars of which I am ignorant ofv “Ah how little are you acquainted with her real sentiments” ” she, melting into tears, “your Samily has ever been nearest to her heart, though an indifpensable necefiity has obliged her to conceal her Sentiments; that neces fity is now no more, 1 am that aunt, ?ind hope by my Suture conduct to convince you, that though neglected, you have never been Sorgot; nothing could have introduced you in a more amiable light than this morning’s adventure; your parents made you my niece, but your merit makes you my
daun hter i
 . 19
daughter; from that moment I considered you as such;; you in return,, my sweet girl, give me a mother’s place in your affections ?” I had sat during this speech immoveable, my astonilh
t
ment had riveted me to my chair; at the close of it I rose and endeavoured to throw myself at the feet of this new parent, but fly prevented me, and throwing her arms round my neck, embraced me with a tenderness truly maternal : but my emotions were more than I could support, they deprived me of the power of utterance, I made an effort to speak, but sunk liseless through my aunt’s arms upon the floor; their kind afliftanee soon recovered me, and I poured out my acknowledgements in a flood of tears.
20  .
Mrs. Delmain did all she could to compose my spirits; Mrs. Beville and Lucy congratulated, both in terms too much to my advantage to be repeated, and hinted,, though in a distant manner, their curiosity, what could have estranged us so long : my good aunt, who loves to anticipate every one’s wishes, said, in an obliging' manner, “I have made you an early visit ladies, and we shall have a long afternoon, as we don’t seem difposed for chit-chat I would offer to recount you the events that led to this scene, were I not doubtful they might appear tedious and insipid” ” expressed a high satisfaction at the proposal, and Ihe proceeded. — But I have wrote toa long a letter, my dear Clara, to rei.
JLX IL lya JTX ± JU XX X. 21
count so long a discourse, which contained, in miniature, the histories of my
aunt, my father, mother, and another
A
relation; however, if you have any curiosity I will gratify it in my next, 1 shall not, my dear Clara, apologise for my dwelling so long on my own affairs, it would be doing injustice to your friendihip, to doubt your being interested in them. I long to introduce you to this dear relation, whole kindness to me I will endeavour to repay, by the moll grateful and tender attachment, to her will I devote my future days, though I cannot think they will be numerous. My guardian wfill receive a letter with this, from Mrs. Delmain, to thank him for his care, and to beg his permission for my
accompanying
acompanying her to her seat in de vonfhire, where she is obliged to be as soon as possible; Ihe also desires my brother may be recalled. I too, have wrote to inform Edmund of the splendid fortune that awaits him; Heaven grant it may not also be too late to contribute to his happiness, as to his unfortunate filler’s! Oh what an unthankful being am I!
Adieu, my dearest: friend, I inquire not your affairs, they are secrets. Mr. Watson is requested to write by return of post, unless you do the same, I may not perhaps receive your letter while I remain here. I shall, however, inform you of my arrival in Devonlhire,
»
and, as well as lean, recount my aunt’s
adventures.
X XX i:. IVX XX i X rx ^ xy X 23
adventures, though they will lose greatly in the repetition. Once more adieu, my Clara, and believe no time or distance can lessen the friendflilp and affection of
your
t
EMMA VILLERS.’
/
LETTER
/
I a XL ivi IX i u XL n A U JN 1
LETTER. XVIIL
EMMA VILLERS,
TO
CLARA WATSON.
■
/
1
Delmaln hall.*
We, that is my aunt, Lucy,
(whom Mrs. Beville kindly spared to our joint entreaties) and your Emma, arrived last week at this hospitable mansion. On our arrival, Mrs. del main saluted us, — “Welcome Miss Beville, and welcome my dear niece
to
 ,
to your family mansion, salute your young friend, and do the honours of a house I hope you will ever confider as your own.” Her affable manner soon made us both at home; Ihe tries by every method to banish the melancholy that consumes me. — “We must send for your other friend, your Clara, iny dear, for I find Lucy and I have not Spirits enough to Support yours; but stay till you have Seen Some of our neighbours, otherwise I Sear your accounts will not induce her to Savour ' us with her company; She will fliud der at the thought of the habitation of an old maid in Devonlhire at this Sea son of the year, but Ihe will find we are very Sociable, and that there are old maids without envy or Sormality.”
t7 _ TT ry mv • 1
 .
This, my dear Clara, is meant as a friendly invitation, but I have no hopes that you will accept it, I am
too well acquainted with your engage
€
ments in town, to think you will break them for the society of three female friends. However, we are not, I alture you, a gloomy trio, my aunt is
•ft.
unaffedtedy cheerful and lively, and Lucy possesses the most pleasing vivacity; I am the only one the least inclined to gravity, and they take So much pains to distipate my melancholy ideas, that I think mysels obliged to struggle as much as postible for that Serenity they wisti me to enjoy, o r at least the appearance of it; — but pardon me, Clara, for So long detaining you with this idle chat from Mrs. Del
 . 57
main’s story, I know you too well to doubt you are impatient, though I have not received your commands to ■ begin; and as it will be work of sometime, you will expect it perhaps sooner than it will be ready; I shall endeavour as well as I can to give it you, in the words of the amiable heroine, as I, stippofe you will call her.
The History of Mrs. Delmain,
“I was born at delmain hall in Devonshire, where my father constantly resided;; mother, though used to a life of gaiety before her marriage, easily conformed her taste to his, and their happiness was increased
is  .
by my birth, who was their first child, though of a sex different from, what is usually desired by people of fortune. They were four years without another, during which my parents were grown so fojnd of me, that my papa often hoped he Should have no soil to rob his little Emilia, who he intended for his heir; and indeed so much was his heart seton it, that during my mamma’s second pregnancy he was under no small concern, .least he stiould be disappointed; stie, though her daughter was no less dear to her, found her other child would be equally so; and dreaded bringing into the world a fon, who instead of being the darling of her husband, would, stie foresaw, be considered as an
I intruder:
X XX XL# jltx MX X jl xij US mx w X # "^
intruder; ffie knew my papa’s temper was inflexible, that where he once loved or hated he always continued it, and her own meekness of dispofition prevented her exerting the influence ffie had. over him, to check the excessive partiality at which ffie trembled. But these apprehensions were Soon at an end, ffie was delivered of another girl; which, as no rival for the estate, my papa was persectly sa tisfiecl with, and astured his wise ffie ffiould have no reason to complain of his behaviour to her little Fanny; for though he Selt a great partiality for his Emilia, he would as much as possible conceal it, and carry the balance with an even hand. And indeed my lister had a very considerable stiare in his
C 3 affections.
JO THE H A I D E N A U N T.
affections. When I was about ten years old, a Mr. Gerrard, a first cousin of my mother’s, came to Spend a Summer with our Samily; he was an agreeable young man, but he had rather imbibed too dissipated a manner, Srorti being in London, where he studied the law: however, he soon became reconciled to our regular way of lise, and diverted himsels with partaking of my sather’s rural' Sports, and playing with us children, of whom he Was very Sond : but it was a more tender engagement that caused this Sudden alteration in hrs taste; he had at church Seen a Nancy emerson, daughter to the clergyman of the village; his heart, a stranger to love, lurrendercd at one view of this lovely
mrl.
I VI XL m IX I u IL n JL • 51
girl, though perhaps his intentions were not the most honourable as ffie frequently walked alone, * he found no difficulty in obtaining an opportunity to declare himself.. one conversation convinced him of the impossibility of Seducing a mind, more Saultlcis than her Sorm : nor did he longer entertain a wiffi destructive to her virtue, which he adored; but strove by every tender means to make an in terest in her heart: he Soon Succeeded, and the artless maid repaid his love with mutual tenderness. They used to meet in a little ffiady walk at the end of the park,. Mr. Gerrard generally took me, and Sometimes my sister, with him, to prevent suspicion and entertained his. Nancy while we
amuseff
^.5 X XL XU X X XX X 1., XU Xlt Si j s,
'amused ourselves with gathering flowers, or running aster lambs or butterflies. This pieasing intercourse lasted Some time, my cousin knew his sather’s avaricious temper too well to hope for his consent; and nancy’s Sather. was entirely guided by his Second wise, a young girl who was his Servant, ^ and now became the tyrant of the house; her hatred to this innocent girl would have been Snflicient to have broke off the match : The lovers at lafl agreed to go to Scotland, in hopes that pardon would be easier gained than consent;; was with difficulty he persuaded her to this rash flep, — but there was a new danger that fixed her resolves— — evening w’hen She had parted Srem her lover, and was going
home,
home, the sound of a gun just at the other fide of the hedge waked her from a reverie, and the surprise made her scream;; — person who fired, was Mr. Felton, a country ’fquire, who lived some miles off,, he pushed through the hedge to see what was the matter, and coming up with Nancy, began to rally her in a rough strain for her cowardice, — telling her,, if Ihe would be his wife, he would teach her to shoot and hunt as well as himself. She tried all in her power to get rid of this disagreeable companion, but in vain, he attended her to her father’s door, and spite of her resistance, snatched a kifs for helping, or rather lifting her over a style. The next day he sent her father some
C S game
or X XX Xu xrx JTX X XA X .n. U n ± m
t
game, and in the afternoon came to drink a glass wdth him, he said. After this his visits became frequent, and his: motive was too obvious to be doubted. The old man encouraged him for interest, and his wife from ill nature, as Ihe' saw how disagreeable he was to poor Nancy, who with much difficulty prevented his making proposals to her Sather. The lovers found they had no time to lose, and everything was agreed on for their flight; — but their evil genius had been too busy in preventing it; — Mrs, emerson had, by Some means or
4
other, discovered the amour, and acquainted my Sather with it, who thought himsels bound in honour to. let old Gerrard know what was going
4-
on,.
on. The old miser, alarmed at this intelligence, wrote to his fon, commanding him to fet out for London ' immediately, on an affair of consequence;; by way of inducement, it would detain him but a. few days;. — he also sent a letter to Mr. Emerson, advising him to take care
4
#
of his daughter, for he was certainly informed, that his fon* had an intention to ruin her, by means of a iham marriage; — and it was. too probable, from his libertine principles. this fcheme Succeeded bul? too well. My cousin, on the receipt of his order, flew to find his Nancy; he even dis obeyed his Sather, in waiting, a day, to take leave of his beloved mistress.
But in vain did he wait. She was not
50 X XX jci ivii X J XL in i U JL X «
to be seen > distracted, he wrote a letter, and on his knees entreated my mamma to let me convey it to her. She could not withstand his perfualions, and after his departure, sent me wfith a servant, on some mestage, to Mr. emerson; but I was not permitted to See Nancy, who was confined to her apartment, and perpetually upbraided for her imprudence j Mr. gerrard’s letter was produced as a proos of her lover’s bad intentions j at the sight of the contents. She Sainted; on her recovery, her Sather, at his wise’s instigation, told her, the only reparation stie could make, was by giving her hand to Mr. Felton,, which, is stie resused to do, he would abandon her to her Seducer, with his
curse
. •
X XX Ed jlyx MX X EJ Juj xn mjl Lj XN JL • 3/
Curse for her portion. In vain did the unhappy girl beg forgiveness, or at least time to reconcile herself to her obedience; a week was all that was allowed her; at the end of which, overcome by her father’s authority, or rather by the supposed baseness of her lover, she, amidst tears and Saintiiigs, allowed hersels to be united to Felton. This affair was kept So private, that nobody had the least suspicion; the evening besore, my mamma, happening to see a boy belonging to Mr. emerson, gave him the letter, and told him ta give it to his young mistress, the first opportunity : he obeyed her but too punctually, and delivered it immediately on her return from church, — ^ ihe knew the hand, and opened it
with
X XX Xu l}fx JTX X .LA x.a urx U .LX m
with precipitation; he informed her the reason of his departure, and that he intended trying to obtain his father’s consent, but, if he sailed, ffiould return immediately, and attend her to Scotland,, where he wiffied her to engage some companion, of her own sexto attend her; telling her, this caution was my mamma’s. Her being his confidant, and indeed every part of the letter, convinced the unhappy girl how much ffie had injured him; ffie was sat weeping over the letter, when ffie saw her lover knock at the door, and in an instant throw himself at her feet; her father and huffiand entered the room, - — the latter, in a Surly tone, demanded what
be wanted with his wise. “Your
wise
X tl IL WL I U IL Is A U in 1.
I
%
wife!” returned he. “Oh! Nancy, wffiat can this mean ?” She could not answer, the violence of her emotions threw her into fits, which held her all day; at every interval Ihe looked wildly round her, and called on the name of Gerrard, who would not quit her till the evening, when aster recovering her senses, So Sar as to know him, and in a Seeble manner beg his pardon, nature being exhausted, with the strength and number of her fits. She reclined her head on his bosom, and, with a deep sigh expired. The unsortunate young man was brought raving to our house, where he was Seized with a Sever and delirium, and his lise for Some time despaired of. He had, at his arrival
zel
** x i AT 99. 0. JL.F xjk W XI * r
in London, found his father’s design, and dreading the consequence of his absence, made his escape, and, impelled by an irresistible impulse, went directly to the fatal house: : father had followed him, and arrived when there was no hopes of recovery; ' however, the strength of his constitution overcame his diforderbut it is
/
impostible to describe his passion— — he first saw his father, he raved like a madman, called him unnatural monster, murderer of his Nancy, and vowed, with the bitterest imprecations, never to see him more. The old man was soon equally enraged, and they mutually abjured each other. He took an affectionate leave of my
mother, kissed her children, and
hastily
JL x*l SIM IVX jtx X xj Sid xn MX w xn X #
hastily quitted the house. His first course was to the churchyard, where his love was interred; he threw himself on the grave, and laid long immoveable, as if his soul was stead to join her; at last, starting up, exclaimed, “There is one, at least, on whom I can be revenged; ” — and running furiousty to his horse, rode to felton’s, of whom, in outrageous terms, he demanded satisfaction. The Squire was equally passionate, they withdrew some distance from the house, and my cousin, on the first discharge of his pistol, laid his adversary dead at his feet; on which he fet out immediately for London, and, before he could be discovered, embarked for the
East-indies, after which wc heard
nothing
a z.  , nothing of him; his father not making
r
the least inquiry after a fon, who had treated him with so little respect— — I am afraid I have tired you with this detail, which you, no doubt,, think might have been omitted, as having but little connexion with my own history; but the conclusion will stiow I was under too great obligations to this relation, to pafs over in silence the melancholy events that so long detached him from his family.” Wc
• • s •
astured her, stie could not be too particular, that we had all sympathised with the distress of the lovers, and' joined a tear, to those She stied, to the memory of the hapless miss Emer son. You too, my dear Clara, will, I know, pity the unsortunate girl',
vet
 . 43
»
yet death, in her situation, was a blessing; my aunt tells me, she was not eighteen. Poor Nancy I
♦
Alas, my friend, what ravages does this fatal passion make among our sex!! you say, leave moralising, and continue Mrs. delmain’s relation.
But excuse me at present, Clara,
\
I have already extended my account beyond the bounds of a reasonable letter, though not without opposition from my aunt and Lucy, who are continually remonstrating that they have none of my company; and that the time I devote to my pen, must be prejudicial to my health; they would not fuster me to be alone, did they not
fear
44  .
fear, isi am interrupted in the day, ] shall sit up at night, which would be worse. I am Sensible of their intendec
A
kindness, but they know not enougl of my case to prescribe proper re medies. We expect a neighbouring family to dinner, and I shall havi hardly time to dress; tomorrow I will resume the thread of my (or rathe: my aunt’s) discourse 4 in the meai time, dispatcli this, to convince you I am not unmindsul of my promise though I have been So long in executing it, only writing at odd times to this you will impute any delay II my Succeeding letters.
I
I need not Surely, my dear Clara, tell you, with what pleasure I Should
receive
 . 45
receive an epistle from you, I know your idleness in this particular, but that is a poor excuse, to a friend, Sq truly sincere, and affectionate, as
J _
Your
ft
#
-. C
EMMA VILLERS:
/
'» (
LETTER
U
ft
46  .
r
k
4 ^
• t
4
LETTER XIX
J
>
I
]
I
EMMA VILLERS,
T O
CLARA WATSON.
Delmaln hall
Again, my dear Clara, am I Sal
down, to transcribe, from mj memory, my little Samily narrative, which was too interesting to me, Soi the minutest particulars to appear. tedious; but you, my dear, as not being So nearly connected with the per
fom
  4^
Sons of the drama, may perhaps be obliged to me to pafs over many little
- N
incidents, of what may, to you, appear an insipid history. But I know’ not how to do this, as it would re '■ a new plan, was I to deviate from my aunt’s; besides, these little circumstances are, ' in fact, the whole affair, we have no surprising, or in deed uncommon adventures : but, as it is the finer traits, the almost imperceptible touches of the pencil, that give a likeness to the picture, so do the workings of the more delicate sensations of the human heart, on the familiar occurrences of life, best convey an idea of the sentiments and dispofi tions; we have all features and complexions, but all different; we are all
liable
48  .
liable to the same pastions, but it is the various degrees and operations of them, that characterises and distinguisties the person. these. simple events may therefore answer my pur pose, which is, to give you an idea of Mrs. Delmain, better than the most extraordinary and romantic ones.
I
She stiall, is you please, now pro
ft
ceed*
i
Continuation of Mrs, Delmain’^
Story.
THE melancholy catastrophe of young gerrard’s amour, greatly as fected my mamma; neither could my Sather help being affected, but as the part he had acted in the affair, was
from
 . 49
from principles of honour, he was sofar from blaming himself, that he could not be brought to wilh it had been otherwise; though he condemned the old man for his severity, not agreeing with him, that gold is the sovereign good.
I continued my father’s darling, and at thirteen had received all the education the country could afford. My mamma, who had a high opinion of a boarding fchool, near London, earnestly desired I might be a year or two there to improve in the polite ac eomplistiments of my sex— — papa, who knew not how to refuse her, granted a reluctant consent; he would rather have sent for different masters
vol. II D home.
so  , home, but it was so seldom she dis
ft
fented from his inclinations, that h( thought it unreasonable to insist on it But as nothing could: reconcile him tt

the distance, he resolved to take j
t
.house, and remain in London durin| the time my mamma kept me there — this was equally agreeable to her, ai

she had many friends in town whoir she had not seen some years — having been in London but once since hei
«
marriage. — The improvements I mad in this place pretty well reconciled mj papa to my being there, especially as he had frequent opportunities of feeing me, though he still distiked these fenii naris in general; and indeed, I perfectly agree with him, that there can
•'X
not be that care in every respect taken
ol
TH E M A 1 U E N AUIN 1. 51
SA number of girls by people the best qualified for the undertaking, that may be of one or two under the inspection of parents, to whom it is a pleasure instead of fatigue to superintend every branch of their education I know there are many arguments urged in favour of the contrary opinion; such as the spirit of emulation, which is excited by companions in studies, a genteel carriage, chut these arguments are rather plausible than conclusive. Envy, I fear, is as easily excited as emulation, and affectation and coquettry oftener learned than ease and propriety : — but morals is the greatest objection, and I am apprehensive there is less regard paid to that essential point, than
D 2 to
42  ..
to externals — but I beg pardon for this digression.
f
VI •.
I am going to relate my first misfortune, which so deeply affected me, that! near thirty years hath not. effaced the painful remembrance. My dear mama was seized with a fever, that in a few days left no hopes of her life, — as foon as Ihe found her end approaching. She Sent for me to take a last leave; — on entering her chamber, I Sound my papa sitting by her, too much absorbed in gries even to observe me. — Fanny was retired .behind the curtain, endeavouring to suppress her tears, as stie was told
I
r they hurt her mamma; but her Srequent
Sobs plainly discovered the attempt
was
T H E MAIDEN A U N T. 5 3
0
was fruitless: : — flew to the bedside, and throwing myself on my knees, bathed her extended hand with tears.
— “Be comforted, my Emilia, do
✓
not distress my last moments with your grief; I quit this world for a better, perfectly satisfied in leaving you to the care of the fondest, best of fathers. — But where is my poor Fanny, Mr. Delmain ?” — He rose, and led her to us; fiie leaned on the bed, and fondly clung round her mamma’s neck, who kissed and strove to pacify her. ^ “Do not cry, my darling, — my dear Fanny, you will make me cry too.” The deaf girj covered her face with her hands, and came and kneeled by my stde — my mamma took one of them and put into
D 3 mine
54 the maiden AUN.D
mine — “To you, my Emilia, I recommend this dear child, be you a mother to her; you possess the heart of your papa, use your influence for her advantage, as for your owm, study to promote her happiness by your friendihip and advice, and by your tenderness to your sister deserve the blessing of your dying parent.” She then in the strongest terms recommended us to her hufband’s care, who tenderly embraced us, as we did each other, but in silence— — “am satisfied, said the dear woman, and now farewell; may the Almighty bless you all. — I saw her head link upon the pillow, and was carried fainting out of the room, — Our house for Some time was a Scene of affliction and conn

Sufion.
I n XL ivl A 1 L je. IN U IN X • 55
fusion, my papa was inconsolable, and I unable to afford him that comfort which I wanted myfelst — As soon as he Was able to take any resolution, he prepared for our return to the country, where he determined to devote his future days to his children. We both went with him; I suppose no inducement would have been strong enough to prevail on him to part with me, who, he said, was now his only comfort. — My sister was by my mamma’s desire to remain at home till stie was twelve or thirteen, and then go to the school I had been at : — Till that time I so fcrupulousty obeyed the injunctions laid on me, that
i
I made it my whole study to please and oblige Fanny, who was doubly end
4 deared
56  .
deared to me since our mutual loss;; — did I make a request to my father but on her account; he observed my behaviour and was pleased with it, though he would sometimes say, “Emilia, you will spoil your sister, you seem to make it a point to have no will but hers; ” indeed, this was partly the cafe, and the dear girl, though naturally osa Sweet dispofition,
t
was So unaccustomed to control, that
4
stie never expected the least contradiction; — but by this tender treatment I entirely gained her affection, and could persuade when no one could compel her. — Our Separation was • equally painsul to both; nothing but our lamented mamma’s instructions could have Sorced us to it; poor
Fanny
J Jrl II ivl A 1 L Ji A U in LT. ^7
Fanny wept aloud, said ffie .was. going to leave her only friend, her second mother. I was forced to fup press’my own sorrow, to. alleviate her’s; but, when ffie was gone, I freely indulged it, and, for sometime, felt as if I had lost a part of myfelst My
9
papa, however, thought himself amply compensated for the loss of one' daughter, by the redoubled astiduity of the other; all that attention, which my Sister had engaged, was now devoted to him, and his sondness for me proportionably increased, He would osten Say, “Emilia, I can never part with you, we must Sind you a husband that will be content to let me enjoy your company, while I live;, ’tis true, we cannot, on these condi
D 5 tions.
58  .
tions, expect so great a match, but I shall make an ample provision for you, is you can sacrifice gaiety and splendour to my peace.” I always answered, that I had no wilh to marry, and, by his leave, would Hill continue single.
No, no, Emilia, that will not do, 1 wilh to see you fettled with some worthy man, who shall, by taking the name of Delmain, preserve the remembrance of our ancient family.”
When I was about nineteen. Lord
B -- -- -, one of our neighbours, came
to dinner, and brought with him a young gentleman, a distant relation of his, of the name of Villers; my eyes, which before had wandered with in disterence over the whole sex, now
found
A JL Jk fi 4 J. 9 JL J. A A X ft JU AFT AW 7 ^
found an object, on whom they could not be satisfied with gazing; my heart, before, “Calm and unruffled as a
ft
fummer’s sea, ’’ was now agitated with new emotions, which I hardly knew
V
how to conceal: I was under continual apprehensions, of saying or doing something wtong; yet, painful as this restraint was, I dreaded the hour when they would retire; when it ar
4
rived, my soul Seemed to have taken its flight with this amiable stranger, and only lest behind an inanimate body. I Sat, as is buried in thought, ■yet without one distinct idea. My papa roused me from this lethargy, by alking, what I thought of Mr. Villers? I blufiied, I hesitated, and at last, with Some consufion, answered,
D 6 ^ he
VU X XT jci IVII X r. IN U IN X.
I
he seems very agreeable, Sir. He then began talking of Lord B —, but, I was so inattentive, that, on his asking how old I took him to be, I rereplied, “about twenty-five.” heyday, Emilia, what’s the matter with you? Lord B — twenty-five! had you
r
said twice that, it would have been pretty right; I suppose you was think
ft
_ing of the young man; — it is no wonder, — he is very engaging. I could make no answer, but Strove, by changing the discourse, to avoid a repetition of that milfake, which had so much disconcerted me; when I rev

tired to my chamber, I found, my thoughts too much engaged, by my new acquaintance, to be able to re
JL ^
call them; those tranquil fiumbers,
which
i
J MM mmm MM M M 9 MM W A. 9 JL % J M
which used to attend my pillow, were fled; I thought, I dozed, but sleeping or waking the idea of Villers never quitted me. In this situation, I continued some days, when my papa went to return Lord — ’s visit, as
there was no lady, I did not accom pany him, but passed the time in conjecturing Mr. villers’s situation, engagements, and above all his opinion of me. — At his return, “Well, my Emilia, what do you think I have done today?? a husband for you, and one, I fancy, you will not dislike;; — say you to young Villers ?” I blushed— — “Sir, what should I fay?” “Why, what you think, my dear, I do not intend to offer any violence to your inclinations.
b2 1 H Jim A i LI Ji IN A C IN 1.
f
tions, you are too good a girl not to deserve every indulgence from me; I had, continued he, no thought of the affair when I went this morning, but finding his Lordship alone, we entered into a conversation on the young man, who was on a party of pleasure; he gave him an excellent character, and afterwards added, “if he had a
4
larger fortune, I would propose him
for Miss Delmain, but if you have
/
not higher views, I would promote the match to the utmost of my power,
for I have so high an opinion of your
, \
daughter, that I would do more on his marriage with her, than with a countess— — my * estate is pretty large, I can spare a part of it immediately, and Should I continue
single
JL n Ei ivl n 1 XL IN U in 1. 03
single (though I have not made that resolution) at my death, he may expect something considerable.” — I was so pleased with the young sellow’s appearance and character, that I attended to his lordlhip’s overture; and, on his consenting to his residing with me and taking the name of Delmain, I promised my consent on condition you approved of my choice; but at the Same time alked, how he could undertake So Sar for Mr. Villers ?’* “Oh! as to that there is no Sear, returned he, I know his affections are disengaged, and he pays great regard to my advice, as I am almoll his only relation; but in this affair, he cannot be So blind to his own happiness, as to hesitate a moment; beside,
on
4
64 1 rl jci ivl A 1 JJ 11, in A U in 1 •
on our return from your house, I hinted my wishes to him, and his answer Showed, he was not insenfible
1
to the young lady’s attractions.” — “Nothing now remains, continued my Sather, but your consent — Speak Sreely, my dear child, to a parent who has always treated you as a friend, and be assured, let your decision be what it will, I shall not be offended.” His goodness overcame me, I would have thrown mysels at his Seet but he prevented me, — “Why this, Emilia? why these tears? cannot you repose a confidence in me? — I only wilh to know your inclinations.!’^ — Though I could not assume courage to express the satissaction I Selt at this proposal, yet my answer convinced my Sather,
that
 . 6^
that my happiness and duty were not at variance in this cafe; but willing to be certain, he by every soothing method Strove to discover the real Rate of my heart, and at last overcame my reserve So Sar that I conseffed my • love had even anticipated his per,, In consequence of this de.. ' my Sather Sent a note to
Lord B -- --. IS the uneafiness I Selt
besore was dissipated, another equally painsul Succeeded — How did I know Mr. Villers liked me? Lord B - ■ ■■ willed for the match as advantageous, and might prevail on him on that ac count; thus did 1 torment mysels for three days, at the end of which his Lordship and my intended lover arrived;; received them with a flutter
ins;
O
66  .
ing heart, and the first part of the day dared not lift up my eyes; in the afternoon my papa proposed a wast in the garden, where, aster a Sew turns, I Sound mysels alone with Mr. Villers; we for Some time Seemed equally em
barrasted; at last, he broke silence
\
in terms rather polite than animated, made me a declaration of love, and hoped his addresses, which wen authorised by the permistion of both our friends, would not be disagreeable, I knew not how to make an answer. for which he Seemed to wait, — at last, in accents hardly intelligible, I told him, I was entirely at my papa’s dif posal, to whose commands I ever paid an implicit obedience; he Seemed Satisfied with this, and killing my hand,
Wu
 . 67
said, he wmuld flatter himsels that by his Suture alliduities, he should owe Something to my own goodriess as well as to Mr. delmain’s. — It willbe needless to repeat our conversations;
Mr. villers’s addresses, though not ardent, were So tenderly respectsul, that my love was increased to a kind of idolatry; — he was always with us,
. I
and every day discovered new perfections, yet from an unconquerable reserve, I could never prevail on my fels to own my partiality, but under the pretence of duty, concealed the tenderest passion, a passion never to be eradicated — perhaps too my reserve was partly occasioned by my doubts of his love, which I always Seared was nothing more than esteem, at least,
I was
68 T H E M A I D E N AUNT.
I was convinced, it was greatly inferioi to mine. — This damped all my happiness, though I caresully concealed my chagrin, hoping by my behavioui aster our marriage to Secure the entire poffelfion of his heart,
V
. *
As everything was preparing Soi
our nuptials, I begged leave to Seen for my Sister, as I willed to have hei present on the occasion;; reques was readily granted, and I wrote tc acquaint her of my situation, telling her, as my papa So Soon - intended tc dispose of my hand, nothing wmulc make me So happy as her presence or the Solemn occasion— — Villers waj present at fanny’s arrival, and at firll sight Seemed Struck with the delicac)
ol
 . 69
/
m • 0
I
her figure, and regularity of her features; I observed, he frequently ^azed at her with admiration, and leaved a sigh— — too seemed un: ommonly pensive, but alleged fa ague; — the next day she inquired the particulars of my engagement, but, dearly, as I loved her, I could not lifcover the sentiments of my heart, b evaded her questions, by saying, it a^as a match of my papa and lord B — — ’s making.
As our family was pretty large, and ny. father was pleased to have me
r
superintend it; my mornings were ilmost engrosted by domestic affairs, so that Mr. Villers and my sister was a good deal alone; indeed, at other times,
T often
70  .
I often missed them, while on th contrary he carefully fliunned me, evei my looks seemed to disconcert him but as I was not of a suspicious tempei J took but little notice of what wa enough to have alarmed me. Thing continued in this situation for about fortnight; when one day my pap came to me in my dresting room, ani told me with a smile, that the writing were finistied, bidding me to be read in a few days, as he did not intend t delay the wedding any longer; come added he, don’t be silly, Emilia, know you are pleased, though yoi will not own it; but where is you lover? I must endeavour to find him I stiall there get thanks for my goo( news. I told him, I did not know
t '
'2 aik
i IT Jim A i JJ ilr JN A U N X'. 71
and he lest me to seek him; I willed to know how he would receive this intelligence., and in hopes of feeing
/, r
him, went to an upper chamber window, which commanded the garden,
ft
but what words can express my grief and aflonishment, when in a distant retired walk, I saw Mr. Villers on his knees killing my lister’s hand, who sat weeping on a bench. — I stood for
I f
sometime stupisted at this distracting sight; — and had not a sudden and violent stood of tears relieved me, I ^
believe my reason would have been disordered. Alas! I cannot even now reflect with calmness on what I then felt — permit me to pause— — wiped her eyes. — Permit me too, my dear Clara — to rest. Could I have
thought
72 THE M A I D E N A U N T.
4
X
thought this narration wmild hai
0 V
been So long, I Should have deserre it till We met. Adieu, my de: friend.
1
1
I am ever yours affectionately,
'•
EMMA VILLERS.
/ :
9
■ S I
- y •
* *
- »
V..
t J
LETTER
“S
ft
9
•» •
*• ^
»
I i
>
ft •
. . 75
LETTER XX
r
MISS EMMA VILLERS,
T O
MISS CLARA WATSON
Delmain hall.
I Find, my dear Clara, I am not to hope for a letter till I have brought my narration to a conclusion;; judge right if you take this method to hasten me. I am too impatient to hear from you, to defey by any reflections of my own, the completion of my talk.
vol. II E Cov
74 A H E M A I JJ E N AUNT.
Continuation of Mrs, delmain’s
#
Story.
9
%
THE first use I made of my returning senses (which for sometime seemed suspended) was on my knees to implore the direction and afliftanee of heaven on this trying occasion, and to reason myself into a perfect resignation to the divine will; and at length sofar succeeded, that I returned to my room tolerably composed: : — violent load which at first: opprefted my heart seemed lightened, and I was consulting with myself which was the most; probable method to get acquainted with the particulars of my misfortune, which I now wondered 1
bad
1 iri LI ivi A 1 u in ^ u IN X 75
had not discovered before, when Fanny, with a face in which her internal agitations were strongly pictured,, -^ entered the room; after strutting the door She seated herself, and was going to speak, when raffing her eyes to my countenance stie observed the alteration in me, and exclaimed, “Bless me, Emilia, what makes you Icok so pale ?” ~I thought this a good opportunity to difeover the state of her heart, and replied, “Would not you, my dear, look pale in my situation?? papa has just told me, that the writings are finistied, and that in a few days I am to take the title of Mrs. Villers” — “A few days, ” repeated, Fanny, and with a deep sigh sunk iifelefs in her chair — terrified at the
£ a effect
76  . cited: of my dissimulation, I en
ft
deavoured to recover her by throwing water in her face, and giving her air; I dared not call a servant, least the cause of her illness Should by any means be discovered; at last. She opened her eyes, and finding her head reclined on my bosom, and feeing the
concern I was in, fly again closed them. “Oh my sister, I am unworthy your kindness, it hurts, it wounds my heart.” — “Oh Fanny, how you
/
distress me 1 what am I to think — To think, said Ihe, throwing herself at my knees, that your wretched sister deserves your pity, though her own inexeufable weakness has brought
it on her; — but oh! do not refuse
/
the only request I have to make, —
help
 . 77
lelp me to some excuse to quit this
)lace : — I am Sufficiently punished for
ny Solly, add not to my misery, by
brcing me to be present at your nup
ials, — let not the horror of a sister ex
firing by your fide, blast your happi
less — may that be as complete as you
ieserve I — Sorget wretch for whom
♦
lothing remains but never cealing yries.” — “Say; not So, my dear lister, : I raised her from the floor and glasping> [ny. hands and listingi my eyes to' heaven, by an involuntary impulse I pronounced, oh thou revered Spirit of the best of mothers, is still attentive to thy ehildrens welsare, thou hast Seen my strict compliance with thy last commands; oh! now observe the reverence I bear them, and hear me
78 T H E M A I D E N AUNT.
swear to sacrifice my own felicity t hers, by thee entrusted to my care and now be comforted, my Fanny you shall not need to Sly, never Ihal that event take place which you 1 much dread; never shall this hand b
• V
given to your lover, for Such,
doubt he is, but in return let me
made the confidant of your affairs.
acquaint me with every circumllanc
of this ill placed passion, (J. know yoi
think it Such) and depend, on m]
i friendihip to make a. proper use o
Such a confidence; it is not mere curio
fity induces me to alk it —; You. blush.
you hesitate, Fanny, do you doubi
my love, my fincerlty ?” — “No,
Emilia, my more, than filter, I have
no room to doubt your goodness, but
T blnlh
T H. h. M A I D L N A U N T 79
y
I bluffi for my own conduct, and hesitate lest I ffiould reveal what mav
ft
give you pain to hear.” — “Let not that prevent yon, I know enough to fix my resolution, I have Seen Villers at your Seet;. aster that, he can be nothing to me but a brother.” — “Have you Seen this, cried ffie with aftonifii ment, and still call me friend? — Thank God, you know the worst, and speak of it with calmness. — I don’t know whether you perceived how
I
much I was struck with the first sight of Mr. Villers; but is his person
charmed my eyes, his manner, his conversation fixed my heart; unused to the Society of the Sex, perhaps to me it appeared more extraordinary than to another, I thought — Sorgive
E 4 me.
So  .
4
me, Emilia, I thought with envy on
>
your happiness, and wondered at your apparent indifference : every hour the fatal pastion gained new ground; unable to check its rapid progress, I indulged it without restraint, blind to consequences. mr.villers’s behaviour, when alone, tended to increase rather than subdue my pastion, I was flattered with the hopes that I was riot im different to him, and that his engagement was the only bar to our, mutual felicity; too focn he confirmed the ungenerous felststi wisti, and in melting, terms declared an ardent tender pastion; how stiall I, Emilia, own that I was too much rejoiced at this discovery, even to attempt to conceal my sentiments?? — know my conduct
%
 . 8r
is inexcusable; I do not wilh to palliate it : Yet, oh my lifter, did you love like me, you would be sensible how hard it was to withstand the elo / quent persuaston of my — or rather your Villers.” — “Proceed, Fanny, ” was all my answer. “He appeared in raptures at my partiality, and from that time we mutually lamented our missortune; — he told me, that when
Lord B -- -- proposed the match, he
without reluctance complied with his advice, that as he had then never Selt
a tenderer pastion than that esteem
/
you had inspired him with, he thought
• ^
himsels Secure of happiness with Such a wise, but that I had undeceived him; he then proposed, that besore the writings were drawn he Should
E C ffain
iz THE M AI D E N AUNT.
»
gain Lord B -- -- -- in his favour, and
by his means prevail on my papa to consent to the change, on which our happiness depended; adding, he did not despair of it as his fortune was so inadequate to yours, which entitled you to a more considerable alliance, I replied, he had but little foundation for his hopes; and beside, I never could consent to such a proceeding, that I severely reproached myself for my ungrateful behaviour to the best of listers, and in a stood of tears in treated him to conquer his pastion and fullfil his engagements. — It was on this account he threw himself at my feet, and earnestly entreated I would not oppose the only step proper to be taken; that my scruples in regard to
YOU
... XX .1^ ATX CX X X X X W Xft X.
you were easily confuted, that he had long been convinced you had consented merely from motives of duty, for that during your courtlhip he had never been able to obtain the most distant avowal - of your partiality that the opportunities you gave us of being alone, your overlooking his
visible attachment to me, in stiort,
%
every part of your behaviour plainly stiewed you would rather be pleased than offended to have the match broke off. Do not then, cried he, ray dear Fanny, do not to these ill timed punctilios sacrifice your own peace, the peace, (nay life) of a man who adores you, and make your amiable sister (who deserves a better
V
fate) the victim of duty, doomed te
b per
84  .
perpetual wretchedness in a union
with a man She cannot love; and
/
whose Soul is devoted to another. I yielded to these arguments conditionally, and promised to Sound you on the Subject, and is I Sound his Suspicions true, to acquaint you with our situation, and beg your advice and aflistance; but is the contrary, to give it up for ever. — It was this, continued my filler, brought me to your room; but alas! I now find too late for your kind mediation to be usesul; we are all deilined to be unsortunate, you least So, who least: deserve to be So at all; ■ — nothing now remains but to entreat your pardon, and to fly from the approaching Scene, and hide mysels for ever.”
« I
T H E M A 1 D E N A U N T. &$-
“I had sat, while my lister spake.... in tears, but with fixed attention, my face reclined on my arms, which were folded on my toilette; my pride as well as tenderness for her; prompted me to take advantage of their opinion that I loved not Villers, and conceal as well as I could the pangs that rent my heart; this was no easy talk, but if I was so reserved before, this was no time to avow my rejected love. — I therefore answered Fanny with some quickness“ “why fly? you surely cannot think me mean enough to force myself on Mr. Villers; even if you doubt my regard for you would be sufficient to prevent it; but be satisfied, my dear sister, I will do all in my power to promote
your
85 THE MAIDEN AUN.D
*
your happiness, and sincerely forgive
I
you all that has passed, it is not for me to censure, I perhaps, might not have acted better; in the mean time be astured, I never will be Mrs. Villers.” — “You never shall, my dear, cried my father, who that instant burst into the room with fury in his looks, you never shall, nor shall you, my pretty forward miss, depend on it: then with a still sterner brow, how dare you, intrigueing ungrateful girl, how dare you appear before your
I
I
sister?? can you have the assurance to acquaint her with your infamous amour? But they shall not, my Emilia, insult thee with impunity : I have turned the insolent villain,, who dared, affront me with his new
‘ jr »

X n ivii X xy iij IN xil u X.
proposals, out of doors, and am only sorry I ever demeaned yon sofar as to encourage his addresses. But do not be uneasy, my child, I will make you ample amends; as for you (turning tq Fanny, who sat trembling in
t
her chair) you ihau repent your behaviour; retire to your apartment, and continue there till I can see you with more patience; Ihe waited not for a second command. I threw myself at my papa’s feet, and implored him, by his tenderness to me, and for the sake of her mother, to pardon an indiscretion, which proceeded from love and inexperience. He took me up, and tenderly embraced me, - — My good, my generous girl, how noble is it in you to plead for one whp has made
you
88  , you so unhappy I You cannot, Emilia,
from me, conceal the feelings of your heart; when you can forget, or despise, that mean souled wretch, that Villers, I will endeavour to forgive your'fifter; till then, I never can.” I assured him, I was perfectly at ease, on my own account, and, by degrees, soothed him into composure and good-humour; I then ventured' a word in behalf of Villers, but he stamped his foot, and, with a frowning brow, forbade me ever to plead in his behalf, as it would always be in vain I found there was no hopes of a reconciliation,, so dropped the subject, and, by so doing, again appeased the storm. In the evening, at my entreaties, my sister was Sent Sori met her at the
door..
 . 89^
door, and taking her hand, led her to my father, we both kneeled. — “At the generous intercession of your injured lister, I pardon you, Fanny, for this once, your faulty conduct:; on
r
condition you give up, for ever, the unworthy man who seduced you from, your duty; if I stnd you keep up any connexion with him, from that mo ment, you cease to be my child; I also, continued he, forbid you both to converse of him, or even men
I
tion his name he held out a hand to each of us, but Fanny sunk motionless into my arms. Servants were called, who conveyed her to her chamber. On her recovery, I tried to comfort her, by promises of unalterable affection; and reminded her of
her
90  .
t
her papa’s pardon, and returning love. “What is his pardon? What is hi love? What is life, without my Villers exclaimed Ihe, in a diftractec tone. “But forgive, Emilia, I mull not involve you in my disobedience I will forbear to speak, though I muf ever think, on this dear, this un happy lover.” When the fweei mourner grew more calm, Ihe chofi to go to bed, I offered to attend her. but Ihe refused; I, however, insisted on my woman’s sitting up with her, Tneed not say how I passed the night; in the morning I found my sister much better, but She begged me to excuse her appearing for a day or two, as Ihe had not spirits to encounter her father’s looks. I put the best face I
rnuld
 . 91
could on her request; alleging her consciousness of having difpleased himy and her stiame to appear, till stie could
4
hope he had, in some degree, forgot her offence. He was easily satisfied on this head, employing all his endeavours to console me, and divert my thoughts from dwelling on my late disappointment; I was too sensible of his kindness, not to struggle with the melancholy, which, in spite of myself, preyed on my heart,, and, in his presence, assumed a cheerful countenance : could I do less, for so kind a
f
parent? One morning, rising earlier than usual, I walked into the garden, at the extent of which, near a little gate that opened into the park, I met my sister, stie was reading a letter;
$2 T H E M A I D E N AUNT.
%
which, on my approach, ftie hastily put in her pocket, and astumed an air of more gaiety than seemed natural; I expressed my surprise at meeting her, as stie was not an early riser;; stie told me, stie chose that hour, as She was afraid of meeting her papa, if stie walked later : there was something constrained in her air and words, during the time we walked to
the house.. then went to her apart
% ________ ^
I to my papa. The; next
morning, calling to see if stie was disposed
to continue her early rising, I
found stie had left her chamber, and
happening to look on her toilette, saw
a letter directed to myself: : hastily
broke the feal, the contents informed
me, that unable to obey her papa’s
commands,,
 . 95
commands, ftie had found means to see
«
her lover, and had, in compliance with his entreaties, yielded to fly with him to Scotland; that she was in hopes my
perfualions would induce her papa to
% »
pardon, the step, as her happiness must be imperfect, even with her Villers, without his forgiveness, and my friendship. My spirits, which I had supported before with difficulty, sunk under this lafl severe shock. I felt a deathlike coldness seize my heart, and communicate itself over my whole frame; my eyes refused to pursue their painful task, my trembling limbs would no longer Support me, I Sell to the floor. A Servant in the next
f
room, hearing a noise, came to See what occasioned, it, and, alarmed at
94  .
/
my appearance, ran down flairs, screaming out, her young Lady was dead. My father, who was not yet up, ran, half undressed, to my as fiftance; he was, at first, of the girl’s opinion, as their remedies had no es fect, till a surgeon arrived, who bled
ft
me. I then came a little to myself, and was put to bed, where I continued two or three days, without a wish to recover. At last I began to mend, though Slowly, and was touched with my dear Satherst anxious care, who hardly ever lest me, and, for his Sake, welcomed returning health. He had read the Satal cause of my diftress, during my insenfibility, but never mentioned it, till, in my presence, a letter was brought from the new
married
X XX. xxx X X X XX X X
married pair; he looked at the superscription, and ordered the messenger: : be brought in, in whose presence le threw it in the fire; “Tell your employers, this is the reception all hey send will meet with, that they ire to expect: no distinction from me, Ut superior hatred, and no fortune, dut my eternal curse” ” would have bllowed the man out, to have sent a dnder message to my sister, but he Dade me flop. “On your duty, Emilia, I command you to hold no : orrefpondence with Villers, or his vise, whom I have fworri never to
ft
brgive; and I entreat you, as you
7
iralue the peace of a doting father, to forget this affair, and reconcile your leart to an honourable and advantageous
g6  .
tageous settlement in the world, have seen Lord B — (added he lately, who offers you, as a reparation for the affront you have receivei from Villers (whom he has difclaimec for ever) his title and his fortune could you, my child, reconcile your self to his age, I Should be doublj pleased, as it would be taking a juf revenge. I will not have your answei now, Emilia, stay till time has effacec from your mind, the images that no disturb it, ” I was not a little diftreffec at this proposal, I had Solemnly vowed never to know a Second love: never to change my maiden state, but to
\
endeavour to recover and preserve my former tranquillity, I incessantly importuned my Sather in fanny’s behals,
who,
T ti, XL M A i jj II IN A U JN i. 97
who, in return, urged me to accept
Lord B —; at last;, finding we only
$
vainly teased each other, we came to a compromise, I was to give up my cause, my father his; and also to jpromife, never to persuade me to marry without my free consent. He, however, begged I would not make
%
any rash resolutions; but that was done already; nor have I ever repented. He also told me, he had intercepted two letters from my filler, and burnt them, and forced me to swear, never, either directly, or indirectly, to correspond with Fanny.
I felt this sacrifice severely, but, ot^
\
reflection, sound reason demanded it.
I loved my sister, would have been her
A
Not. IL F friend.
9s  .
friend, but could not wilh to see her; my refractory heart Ihuddered with horror, at the idea of Villers, as 2 brother; thus situated, any eonnec tion mull have been imprudent: ] therefore (trove, as much as polfiblcj to banish their remembrance from mj heart, and though I never have beet able to Succeed, I, by degrees, an rived at a kind of composed melancholy, not altogether unpleasing.
V
The entrance of tea, here put a flop to my aunt’s narrative, and affords me an opportunity of calling on you, my dear Clara, for the applause, which I am Sure you will think due to her amiable conduct. What obligations is your Emma under to her, for her
kindness
1 n XL ivl I 1 12 II in A U IN i. 99
I
kindness to her parents? She is the best of women, and shall ever be the example of
9
%
EMMA VILLERS.
t
#
\
%
i
\
4
V
F 2 LETTER
^ I
100 i il XL mi\xu IL VI A U JN 1
r
LETTER XXL
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
\
IN CONTINUATION.
delmain hall
t
After tea my aunt continued her
story — About two years after this event old Mr. Gerrard died, and without making the least inquiry about his fon, divided his fortune between his relations. — My sister and me he left ‘ five thousand pounds a piece; I offered
to put mine into my papast hands, but
he
THE MAIDEN A U N T. i o i
I
he refused.. — “no, Emilia, I will have nothing to do with yonr legacy, dispose of it as you please, I know you will make a good use of it.” — ^
I was not displeafed with this liberty, as I still retained a tender remembrance of my cousin, and thinking he had been unkindly, nay, unjustly treated, determined to inquire whether it was in my power to astist him: I accordingly wrote to a friend of his, defirino; him, is Mr. Gerrard was alive and corresponded with him, to acquaint him, that is the Sum bequeathed to me by his Sather would be service •able to him, he might command all or any part of it, and begged he would confider it as his own, and me
as his sincere friend.
E o T rp
102  .
I received, the first opportunity, an answer, full of the most grateful acknowledgements, declining my offer, of which he assured me he had not the least occasion, but looked on himself' ' to me more than ten times that sum for my friendly intention. — I therefore fet it aside for charitable uses.
J
i
•4
^ The death of my sister was a severe
stiock to me : (but I see my dear niece, turning to me, I must not dwell on an event which has already called up the starting tear in your eye.) My
f
father’s anger, however, was not appeased, and it was with difficulty I prevailed to put the family in mourning.
I was
T H E MAIDEN AUNT. 103
I was a good deal disturbed by the Solicitations of lovers, who though I constantly and Seriousty dlsmifsed on their first overtures, Sollowed close on
f
each other. Miy Sather, for Some time, importuned me on the Subject (contrary to agreement) but at last (finding my answer always was that I determined to devote my whole lise to him) defistedindeed, I believe he knew not how to part with me, but always hoped I stiould marry aster his death, which happened Seven years aster my stster’s. — I then experienced, that we postess in our hearts an inexhaustible Sund of gries; we think at every missortune, that we can Seel no more; but the next .convinces us those Seeiings remain the Same, their keen
F A. edge
2c4 1 rl xb MAID II JN A u in JE.
\
edge unblunted by our former sufier mgs.
f
I had not recovered this loss, whee I received a letter, from Mr. Gerrard, informing me that he was Settled at a town in the South of France, and earnestly requesting I would come to: him, as he had made a vow never to live in England, and as my Sather was dead, he wistied'to Supply his place to me, the only person dear to him — I the more readily accepted this invitation, as my phyfieians had for Some time advised me to that journey, for the benefit of my health, and Soon Sat out, though not with an intention to make So long a stay,.
I met
 . 105
I met with the most affectionate reception from my cousin, who I found fettled there, hi a splendid - of life, but with a constitution much impaired by the climate he had resided in; he still mourned the fate of his
Nancy, and had, like me, vowed a'
✓
single life. To amuse his melancholy hours, I repeated my owm difappoint menthe pitied me,, but at the same time blamed my father severity to the lovers, whose fault he considered as involuntary, and applauded the resolution I had taken, to do justice to their children; he insormed me, he' had, by Surprising good success, acquired an immense Sortune, which he intended to leave me, as he was sus ficiently Satisfied, I stiould dispose of
io  .
it in the manner he would willi objected to this, as I had already an
t. ’ I, ^
affluent fortune; and proposed his fettling it on my fillerst children; but he was positive, saying, I Should have that pleasure myself.
s
\
^ I found it was impossible to leave him, as he every day grew fonder of my company, which, he declared, was his only consolation; that as I had .no connexion in England, it would be cruel to leave him, besore he had breathed his last sigh. As 1 passed my time in a very agreeable manner, and as I could never think mysels too Sar
from Mr. Villers, I easily complied.
/
\
4
Mr.
 . 107
's
Mr. Gerrard was the person who in formed me of his death, in the most soothing words, friendship could dictate. My grief on the occasion, was poignant; yet I felt the load of a criminal passion (as I could not help thinking it) removed from my breast; I allowed myself to love his memory, though not his person. I then would gladly have returned, but Mr. Ger* rardst declining health would not allow it; about eight months ago he expired, blelfing me for my kindness,
ft
and requesting his remains might be conveyed to ' England, and interred by his Nancy. I attended the corpse of this worthy man, and Saw his last desire punctually executed; he had made me his Sole executrix; aster
io THE. MAIDEN AUTN T.
¥
fettling that' affair,, and regulating niy own house and estate a little, I wasv impatient to find a niece and nephew,, for whom I felt a maternal. fondness
ft
I therefore paid a visit to Mrs. frank ford, with whom I was intimate abroad; and who, I knew, lived within a few miles of the seat where Mr. Villers used to reside, thinking, that the most probable place to gain the intelligence I wanted. T have, been here but a few days and chance has introduced you, my dear niece, to me, in a manner equally unexpected and pleasing; and I flatter myself the event wnll be a source of happiness to us both. — Here Mrs. Delmain concluded, with apologising for so long intruding on our patience, but said Ihe thought a
narth
 , log
\
detail’ was necessary to clear her from the charge of unkind neglect we all thanked her for the trouble.
She had taken to oblige us and added those encomiums which her conduct deserved. I now expect yours,, my
Clara, - for my communications; I am.
_ »
out of patience at your silence. Edmund too makes me uneasy;; has not answered my letter, a letter, whicte demanded an immediate reply; what can be the meaning? I distress myself by conjectures; my health declines, every day, and my melancholy in
4
'ereafes. My aunt does all in her power to distipate it, but in vain; we have received visits from feveral’
■
aeighbouring families— — Delmain
waa
110  .
was too much respected, to be forgot,
even in so long an absence
*
forgot to tell you, that Lord B —, on her refusal,, a young lady, by whom he had two fons; his Lordstiip is dead,, but my Lady, between whom and my aunt there is a great friendihip, was one of our first visitors. She is exceedingly agreeable.. Lucy is charming company for my aunt; they are both of the most placid tempers I ever knew; the dear girl says Ihe stiould be too happy, could llie see me cheerful; Ihe sighs when I sigh, looks at me with such a sweetly anxious face, that I am forced to smile, to make her easy..
Adieu,
 , m
\
Adieu, my dear Clara, my beloved friend; let me not reckon your unkindness, among the many troubles, that disturb the peace, and distress the heart of
ft
Your affectionate,
EMMA VILLERS,
4
«
4
0
«
^ V ft
%
•' y
LETTER
r
t12 THEM AID E N AUNT.'
LET T E R XXII
MISS CLARA W A T S O N,.
i
N
T or
M I S S E M M A V I L L E R SST;
james’s street.
TT'
X ORGIVE me, my dear,, for noi^
before congratulating you. on the valuable acquisition you; have made, I! think that term is,, allowable since,,. you imreality had such a relation before, yet, its now you have ac“
“•
quired the happiness of her friendihip
and:
Jt ti XL ivi A 1 U in A U IN 1 ♦ ll j
»
f
and protection. I am very ready to acknowledge my obligations for your trouble, especially as it was voluntary, you knew your petit muvelk was quite in my taste; I was much more affected with it,, than with a tragical tale of poniards,., poison.. all horrible instruments of love and jealousy, which either by their absur dity make me laugh, or by their ffur pidity Send me to ffeep. — I Selt for your aunt, as Ihe Seels for every one in diltress — your mamma I pity,. She was a gentle, susceptible woman, but I absolutely adore your aunt, Ihe does honour to the Sex; by the by, Emma, I Sear there are Sew of us Mke her, So. generous. So disinterested;; be Sure,, we. are very filterly, friendly, and all
that.
114  .
that, when there is no lover in the ease; but then, pride is so powerful an ally to passion that poor friend ship~* take notice, Emma, this is between ourselves. — * A man would Hand a bad chance that dared even insinuate Such a thing. besore me, • Wretches! was it not for girls of
Spirit, like me, they would persuade
\
sost, good, mild creatures, that you was of an inserior order of beings; but was I even to allow (which I do not mean to do) our Sollies, I will be bound to match them with still greater in that lordly Sex; what are their boasted friendlhips, when dear sels come in question?? — engage by one glance to break the strongest attachment between them — there is no
vanity
 , ir
vanity in this, any female is sufficient. But I have not yet laid half I have to say on your family; do not you think I abused the old gentleman heartily? Your grandsather I mean — You are mistaken, my dear, he is a prodigious
Savourite on the whole, though I was
• »
ready to be angry with him once or twice; I can hardly Sorgive your Sather any more than he, for choosing a Second character (pardon me, my dear, but who is not So to your aunt) besore a first— — honour gerrard’s constancy, and paid his Nancy the tribute of a tear, no Small compliment from me, who am not osten in the melting mood. — So much for the persons of the drama as you call them, — And now I hear you Say, “you alk for
erive
ii THE M A I D E N A U N T
%
Gkra, at the beginning of your letter for your silence, yet give no one reason to excuse it — idleness
a
must be your only plea, and you have reason to be ashamed of that indeed.” Not So Safi, not So Safi, my Sweet friend,. a little better than that too -, .the truth is, I have for sometime •been So much engrolled by an affair
on which my future happiness de
• '
( now curiosity is at work), but to, be Sure, you won’t expect to he let into my affairs. — They are Secrets you Say. — You are the last, I think,. Should complain of reserve, little impenetrable as you are; but no, you, have ho Secrets, no partialities, no palpitations,, no — in Short, nothing like the rest of your Sex, You are unhappy, to besure,
in
THE MAID EN AUNT, iif
in the moll agreeable situation in life;
/
but there is no cause for it; ’tis a con stitutional malady, I suppose!! on you, for a dissembler. Well, i’ll fet
r
you a good example. If you remember, at parting, I told you I was convinced Beaumont and I were equally indifferent to each other — those were ■ then my sentiments;; I have since made a most surprising discovery;; are both equally and violantly in love, both have frankly owned it, and have been for sometime concerting measures to hasten our happiness; you must be present, Emma, not as bride maid, but a bride yoursels; — nay, never.
s
start, it must be So, my dear, we have provided a Swain who is dying for you; and I stiall have a bad opinion 2, of
ns  .
of your taste if you are not satisfied. Your aunt can have no objection, so talk no more of vapours, but get
^ - y .0. • '
well with all expedition that this double wedding may be solemnised;; do not, by your perverrenefs, delay the happiness of your friend, as I am
determined you shall take the lead on
/
the occasion;; know your as sections are entirely disengaged, So you have no excuse. — Lucy is a good girl, give my love to her, Ihe shall be bride maid, and shall chuse out of our male attendants a partner for hersels. — My respect to your worthy aunt; tell her I reverence her character, but am Sorry She has made a resolution not totransmit her virtues to posterity; Such a woman as Ihe, Should have
in
1 lu i!. IVX il 1 JJ IL IN I U IN 1 • I I Q
instructed her childrens children to ' the fourth generation; but all for the best, there wanted an amiable old maid to retreive the ruinous credit of that venerable society: pray god they profit by such an example — I fear at present they are but soso: — Half a dozen Mrs. Delmains would make me forswear matrimony. — I am a strange rattle, but I know you will only repeat what is prudent; don’t, ' however, forget my thanks for an invitation I stiould be happy to accept; asture your aunt, I would prefer her company not only in Devonshire, but a convent, to half the giddy things of
my own sex, even in this dear difii
%
pared enchanted, or at least enchanting circle. — don’t look incredulous,
Emma,
«20  .
Emma, I am a tolerable good girl tbongh not quite so good as your sober ladyship— — expect a letter by return offt post stgnifying your acquiescence With my marriage scheme: : is no joke, Emma, I was never more serious in my Use, than when I asture you on this affair depends the happiness of
I
three people, that you may make the fourth, is the night and morning prayers of
CLARA WATSON.
. i
I
/
/
1
t.ettm?
 . 121
I.
i
/
LETTER XXIII
MISS EMMA VILLERS,
T O
MISS CLARA WATSON.
delmain hall.
jtxow, oh Clara, have I deserved your scorn!! — merited your unkindness?? — the levity of your letter consistent with friendihip? consistent with humanity } — I am indeed unhappy; but is that a subject for ridicule? I am weak, I am foolish;
122  .
but is it for a friend to trifle with my distress;; torture a breaking heart? Perhaps you have discovered the fatal secret, but does it deserve so severe a punistiment? — It was involuntary — ^ but what am I about! — let me not betray myself— — am ill — very ill:, I
know not what I write, nor what I
read; I cannot answer your letter —
'■)
I don’t understand it — that is. Some parts of it. That you stiould love Mr., Beaumont, that he stiould love you, is no wonder : — You are to be married too; but why Should you wisti me to be present? — It is impostible on any terms, but as a bride ^never, never, Clara, will you See me Such : I am preparing Sora still more important change : — Perhaps you will be called
 . 123
on to attend me to church first — Oh, that it may be foi — Let me Shrink into the peaceful grave, and hide my sorrows from the prying world : — in that afyluin I hope for a repose I have lost here; but if the all wise disposer of my fate decrees me a longer pilgrimage, never will I quit this place, but spend my time in dutiful attention to my aunt, in copying her pious resignation, and in acts of charity and religion.
Edmund too may join me, unhappy youth! — Sure, heaven' severely visits on the children, the parents faults. — Dear ill-fated brother, could I but see thee happy, half my afilictiohs would
G 2 cease.
j24  .
cease— —! my own is more than I can bear.
♦
My head’s disordered— — me, • while able to hold the pen, implore of heaven all its blefiings on you. — « May your union be attended with never ceafing felicity; — may you make Mr. Beaumont and all your friends happy— — one lost to every joy, and now forgive me all my faults, my petulance; but a heart wounded like mine, feels acutely from the tenderest touch : — forgive also my reserve, and believe it was kindly
meant.
. 0 *
Adieu Clara!
Absent
I
T H XL MAIDEN AUNT. 12 5
Absent or dead, still let a friend be'dear,,
A sigh the absent claim,, the dead a tear.
ft
Will you not afford these to your' affectionate, though unhappy
EMMA VILLERS.
.... i ■
ft
G 3 letter.
226 THE MAIDEN AUN.D
•4
LETTER XXIV
CHARLES NEVILLE, E S
\
/
t 0
HENRY BEAUMONT, ESCJ.
U
%
\
Paris,
Beaumont! m> friend! My
good genius! Where lliail I find words to express iny sense of the obligation you have laid me under. Yes; the day is now broke; yon, like the Sun, have dispcllcd the envious mists, and stiewed me mv Stlicitv, Recall the
.. ft
Seatuixs
 . 127
features of Neville, and compare them with your emma’s, nor longer wonder at the concern you felt at her brother’s danger. ’twas friendly sympathy, as well as love.
Yes, Beaumont, I am Villers, the happy Villers, the lover; ah, let me say, the favoured lover of Miss Watson. I have received letters from England, that give me pretensions, to aliert my claim in the face of the world. You are amazed; why change my name? you say. Love, love my friend, the ruling passion!! at the discouraging letters, I received from my sister, I determined to come disguised to England; and, by some
means, procure an interview with my
G A charmer.
128  .
V
charmer, and have my fate decided. This was a romantic scheme, and a letter I received from Emma, made it appear so ungenerous, that I delayed putting it in execution, though I still retained the name, which, at quitting Venice, I had astumed with that design; in cafe any new inducement Should again tempt' me to re .new it.
Think, Beaumont, how your first letter tortured me; I could not suppose you could behold my Clara with indifference; nor could I hope the remembrance of her Villers, could Support her constancy, when attacked by Mr. Beaumont.
I
El Pst
Blessed be my ststerst charms, that secured me from such a dangerous, such an irresistible rival. She must,
Ihe stiall be yours. I know stie loves you; every circumstance of her behaviour stiews it; nay, her last Tetter to me, speaks a heart postbsted by that pastion. Harley has long since been rejected. But, indeed, you have received more eneouragement, than could have been expected, ■ from a mind so timidly delicate as hers, and so circumstanced. We ‘ stiall at 1 aft be brothers. I stiall, with pleasure, pre'
'
Sent you my fister’s hand; I know her value; I know you wilh ever thank me; you are the only one I think deserving her; Sorgive a brother’s boast, file is worthy,, even of you: • Happy
union,
✓
J x xti XX X .i J. *
union, which will enable me to conser on both, the greatest of all earthly blestings.
ft
t
I
Oh! how impatiently do I wait, till my surgeons permit me to travel, I am still too weak to dare disobey -; this is the first time they have allowed me to write. You are impatient to learn the cause of the affair of honour, which has reduced me to this condition, now I have vented the effusions of my heart, I will satisfy your curiosity.
In my last, I informed you of flic situation in which I left the unfortunate Agnes. A few weeks after, my Servant waked me early in the morning,
and
and informed me, a young woman desired to speak with me; adding, She concealed her Sace, and appeared very uneasy. bordered him to conduct her into an adjoining apartment,, and immediately rose to attend her; but judge, is you can, my afi’oniiliment, when I discovered mademoiselled’aumont, in the habit of a peasant. I
ft
started back with surprise.. “Is it
t
polfible, ” cried I, “or do my eyes deceive me ?” “No, Sir, it is indeed,
the unsortunate Agnes, reduced by cruel necestity to this rafii step, which I See you already condemn.” She burst into tears.. “Be comsorted, my Sweet friend, ” Said I,, Seating her; I do not condemn your conduct,
which.. doubt not, you have Safiicient
$
reason
132 i XI jr IVJL A 1 JL LI IN il u IN 1.
reason for; my emotions are those of pity, for any missortune, that obliges Mademoiselle D’aumont to appear in a disguise So unworthy. So unlike hersels.” “Ah, how Sar preserable to all the Splendour prepared for tomorrow; rather let me, for ever, wear this rustic habit, and remain buried in obscurity, than purchase all the elegance of wealth and rank, by the hated title of the marchioness De R —. The very day aster you lest us, the Marquis returned, and urged my Sather to let the marriage be immediately concluded: He readily consented, and told me, to be ready on tomorrow, to give my hand to the Marquis. In vain I wept, knelt, and entreated, Sora longer time; my
Sather
Sather Saw my diffcress with iineoncern y De R — with a malicious., pleasure;;
■ could I do, to. avoid these detested nuptials? I determined to fly to your friendihip for protection, ’till I can acquaint an aunt, I have in one gs the distant provinces, of my situation, and beg her mediation with my Sather; is that is unsuccesssul, death alone remains, which is infinitely preserable. to Such a marriage.”
I Soothed the. sair afilicted, dn the best manner I could; I' even offered her an asylum, in England, is her aunt denied her protection. She was Sull of gratitude. I thought it would not be prudent, for her to remain with me. So went out in the evening to
get
.^.1. w X •
get her a lodging, in a retired part of' the town; and, returning, was met by the Marquis; he came up to me,. and, in a Surious tone, demanded where I had carried maide'moiselle D’aumont?. I answered cooly, ‘‘no where.” “’tis salse, ” resumed he; • produce her immediately, or give me satissaction.” “I shall do neither (returned I) I have done you no injury, De R —, and owe you no Satis
1
faction.” “I knew you a villain,.. Neville, but did not,, ’till now, discover you was a coward. I shall treat you as Such.” - My calmness now lest me. I shall Soon convince vou to. the contrary;. I Sollow you, fir.” He led to a private place, we drew our' Swords; the Marquis Sought with;
more.
more fury than judgement; in making: a push at me,, his foot dipped, and he fell to the ground; I threw down my sword.. astisted him to rise, when,, wdth a baseness I believed him incapable of, he took advantage of my being off my guard,, and plunged his sword in my fide; I dropped — when,, consulting his safety, he made his' escape, leaving, me to peristi without assistance, which 1 must infallibly have done,, had not a friend of Mr. watfonst (who I was once acquainted with) accidentally passed by; it is to this gentleman’s humanity I owe my life;
a
he had me conveyed to my lodgings, and sent for the most Skilful surgeons, though with little hopes of success. Near a week, I lay in a state of insensibility;

13« i ill J k xyj. X XU XX W *.
sensibility;;, the end of which I recovered tny senses, but not my fas

Gulties.'
When’ I could speak, my first inquiries were for Agnes. My faithful servant informed, me, that as soon as
*
she could collect: her reason, which seemed to have deserted her at my ac^ cident, she retired, overwhelmed with affliction, to a convent, where he, twice a day, sent accounts of miy health.
L was pleased to find she had taken so prudent a step, and was in a place of sasety. He also gave me a letter from my sister. My excessive joy, at the contents, bad well nigh been Satal,
they
i
1 n IL ivi V 1 u n. IN II u JN i. t^y
y
they increased my fever,, and greatly retarded my cure.
In a day or two after I was declared out of danger — I received a letter
from Agnes — it pierced my very
%
soul, and inflicted keener pangs than her lover’s fvord. Dear, amiable,, unhappy girl! I know Beaumont you will join with me, in lamenting the fate of this innocent victim of others faults. Ah! how eminently was she formed for all the tender, the endearing ties, of that society she has rc -- nounced for ever.,
I enclose her letter for your peru sal', which I beg you will be careful of,. as I highly value it. I intend
visiting..
138  .
visiting her, before I leave Paris, though I despair of Shaking her resolution. Indeed, it is more eligible than a marriage with the Marquis, who is now doubly hateful to her.
f
This affair is, at present, a damp on my anticipated pleasure; I long to fly to England, and in So many dear connexions, lose every trace of discontent, Ah, would but Agnes accompany, I think all our endeavours to make her happy, would in time Succeed. How well does ffie deserve to be So
But to quit this melancholy topic —, I depend on your friendihip, dear
ft
Beaumont, to make my angel easy on
my
i in XL ivl AXE JL; Xh IN I U IN i • J 29
my account; what may She not think of my being engaged in a duel, which, as you observe, seldom happen without a mistress? I cannot bear She Should, one moment, suspect: me of any infidelity.
I
How Beaumont could you think the man, favoured by the divine Clara,, could be inconstant? Where is an object capable of obliterating her idea? You smile— — Heaven, you see her not, with the eyes of your
Sincerely devoted,
/
EDMUND vsllersv
/
P. S. A punctilio of honour, de prives me of the pleasnre of writing to
miss.
140  .
%
Miss watson; I mull first obtain her Satherst approbation : My new Sound aunt too, has aright to, that compfi ment, I have no doubt of her consent, my Sister describes her as the best of women. Indeed her letter Sufficiently Shows it
0
%
LETTER
 . 141
# ft
LETTER XXV
«
MADEMOISELLE D’AUMONT,
T O
DHARLES NEVILLE, ESQ:,
(enclosed in the preceding.)
With a heart Hill trembling at
: he dangerous situation, to which her imprudence reduced him, the unfortunate Agnes, on her knees, implores the pardon, of the most amiable, Qiofl injured of men. Those knees.
142  .
on which, Since the fatal accident. She has incestantly, with uplifted hands, and streaming eyes, poured, out her ardent supplications for his recovery. And, to render those supplications more acceptable, solemnly dedicated her future days to that Being, who alone could save her from the horror of occasioning the death of him, for
I
whom She would, with pleasure, resign her life.
♦
Heaven, which saw the stneerity of
t
my vow, accepted the unworthy offering, and mercifully restored you to my prayers; how small the facrif ce!
how great the recompense! In this
«
asyliim, to which I stead at that dis tracting event, which I Shudder to re
 . 143
: all, do I fix for ever; and devote my ise, to penitence, praise, and prayers. V slight atonement for the errors of ny past conduct. Errors of the most langerous kind. Errors, whose con equences might have made me the nost wretched of human beings. ever can I be enough gratesul to the Providence which preserved you, for,
[ hope, many years of uninterrupted felicity.
My Sather, to whom I wrote, approves my intention of retiring from a
world where, he Says, I can never
/
pear with honour.
Let not, too generous Neville, let not your friendly compastion for my
144  .
fate, give you one moments pain; (too many already have you felt for me) nor think I have imposed too Severe a penance on myself— — have I lost in giving up the world? What prospect of happiness was there
for me? — No, this retreat is the only
<
place where I can hope for peace; a ray of comfort already beams upon my soul, which can only hope to regain its former tranquillity, by fixing all its desires and affections on that being, from whom an earthly, though innocent pastion, had too long estranged it.
ft
Once more, O worthiest, best beloved of men, once more do I wish to indulge myself in feeing you; to take
a last
 . 145
a last adieu of all that is dear to me in a world, I Shall then renounce and forget for ever. — Yet may those prayers that ascend without remembering your happiness be unheard, ungranted; may the blesiings they implore be reversed, and descend in curses on the ungrateful
\
AGNES D’AUMONT.
#
vol. II H LET.
• >
, 146 thji* MAIDEN aunti^
I
* 4
\
I
LETTER XXVI
4
MISS LUCY BEVILLE,
T O
MISS CLARA WATSON.
t
Delmain hall,
Miss v/atson will, no doubt, be
surprised to receive a letter from one to whom She is personally a Stranger; but to whom (dislrcsl and hals
/
distracted at the dangerous condition of my dear Emma) can I apply, but
to
* J. JU a. •
to you, madam, the cause, though I am persuaded the innocent one of our unhappy friend’s misfortune, which I still flatter myself proceeds from rnifapprehenston.
It is this induces me to open to you
a secret, which has, long concealed,
#
preyed on her gentle heart; but first let me describe our present melancholy situation: : days ago miss Villers received your letter; Ihe fainted at the reading it, and when recovered Seem absorbed in gries — fly neither Spoke nor eat all day; in the asternoon She Silently Showed my the contents, which I own surprised me, and then retired to her chamber, with a look of
H 2 un.
148  .
tinatterable grief, to answer it. I know not what she wrote — in the evening I feared fly was ill; indeed She has long been so, but She denied being worse than usual, and went early to bed. — The next morning I rose before the family was stlring, to inquire how she did, but found her up sitting, drawing at a little table, her tears flowing down her pale cheeks : I came behind, and unperceived had a view of the Sketch on which she was employed — a perfect copy of what passed within. — A gentleman and lady were represented before an altar, joining their hands; on the one fide flocd a female figure, in the habit and attitude of distraction; on
the
\
X XX lyx Tx X xy X i XX w LV X # i
the other, a gentleman with a Sword plunged in his bosom— — had not time leisurely to examine this piece, for turning her head, she started at feeing me, and hastily put it.in a drawer.
She kept up, though with visible difficulty till the afternoon, when stie was seized with so violent a fever, that the physician, who Mrs. Delmain immediately sent for, declared her life in imminent danger; — words cannot paint our distress— — sweet sufferer alone feein resigned to her fate, but
I
file did not long retain her senses— — is now delirious, Mrs. Delmain
\
or I never quit her bedside— — src quently calls, on your name then,
H 3. Ed
150  .,
** Edmund, my dear brother! see he dies, ” Cruel Clara !” Sometimes she breaths a f gland whispers Beaumont; — her unconnected ex prefiions move beyond alb the eloquence of Sorrow,
I have wept till! am almost blind. her aunt seels.all her own afflictions renewed in her niece, though stie is ignorant of the cause of heir distress.. I have long been honoured with my dear emma’s confidence; I knew the situation of hers and her brotherv, heart, and thought that yours and. mr. beaumont’s made Suitable returns but I could never bring her to this opinion; her excestive delicacy,.
w h ich;
IX i:. xti XX i ^ III XT. V X. ♦ J I
which made' her dread the stightest
\
suspicion of her passion, made her sty from London; but to what purpose, is stie must. here Sail a victim to despairing, love? but I cannot bear the thought!
I still hope your kst letter is not to be taken in a literal sense; is I am right, do,, dear Mils watson, for heavens Sake Send Some comsoft, some explanation, to repair the mis cliies it has occasioned; is its not yet too late; — put is I have vainly stat fered mysels, I am Sensible the discovery I have made is every way imprudent and distreffing but friendstiip, and the strong necefiity urged me
M 4, to :
1s2  .
to dispense with ceremony; — forgive me, madam, if I have done wrong, but the life of the most amiable of women was too dear to be sacrificed to reserve,
I will once more hear the doct: or*s opinion, before I feal my letter..
Worse and worse, no hopes, or next to none; -- the doctor Shakes his head. Mrs. Delmain mourns, why did I ever know this dear ghl, if I must lose her so foond*
I approached her bed,, stie looked ^ wildly at me — then with a softened countenance — “Look,, Clara, look at
poor
J n xl#' 1 / XX. • A •
99 '
f
poor Edmund (pointiirg to her aunt) won’t you look at him, now he is dead? — Will Beaumont be angry Then after a pause— — bride, no, „ he does not love me, he never did though he said so — hulh„ don’t tell; ” with visible terror. — I cannot fuppoit these moving scenes..
In looking for a fmeiling Bottle, I met with the very drawing, I mentioned— — put it in my bosom for another look;. that look has cost me many tears; ■ — though.unfinilhed, every face expresses its proper sensations— — — I send it — there you may reast more than .my pen can describe.
Hi 5 Adieu.
4
i54  .
Adieu, madam, I to the offices of friendihip — on your answer depends all the hopes of your
«
Afflicted humble servant,
LUCY BEVILLE,
«
V
t
* ^
ft
- \
f
I
LETTER
n. IL ivii 1 U LI in A U 1. 155
LETTER XXVII
#
HISS CLARA WATSON,
TO
Hass LUCY BEVILLE.
\
St. james’s strefet; '
0 My dear Miss Beville, ■ your letter breaks my heart! you say,, you are half distracted T shall be quite so, df
1 do not soon receive a favourable account. My Emma, my sweet never shall I forgive myself for
H 6 causing.
1^6 THE MAIDEN AUN .D
\
you this illness;; ridiculous, unthinking creature as I was.... trifle with a pastioir whose Source I had just experienced. — I have no excuse; her reserve was generous, was delicate, my deceit cruel and. in prudent.
Oh Lucy, you was right in your conjectures, and nothing but diffident humility could occasion the dear girl hersels to doubt— — thought by a
stratagem to come at her Sentiments;
«
absurd, unjust, to plot against Such innocence. Such generosity!! am Severely punished. Beaumont is raving; I can hardly keep him from Setting out to See her, he will never Sorgive
me.
XX i;. x n i.. 5^7
me, but what is that. — Edmund, the dear Edmund, I shall never dare to see him; — Sure, Lucy, Ihe is not so bad as you tell me, — no hopes — good God,, what will become of me Everybody will hate — hut I deserve it, I hate myself.
. would fet out immediately and come to you, but I am so lately recovered from an indisposition, that my papa and mamma will not consent till I have received another letter, — I dare not let Beaumont come, his despair will only add to your troubles.
I had received a letter in answer to mine that pierced my very soul — I was
just
vs THE MAIDEN A.DN .d: -
: t
jiist sat down to answer it wlien yoiir^'^ arrived. — Sweet girl, - well may ffie call on me, welsexelaim on my cruelty. — r The picture too! expressive.. Hsi that have reduced my friend to distraction, ’tis 1 plunged the sword in the bosom of her brother. — There are ' the parties for the double marriage,. But ah! how wrongly paired. — Everything was right, our happiness was on ’ the point of being completed, and one raffi hiconstderate stepffias over -- thrown it all. Seize, dear Lucy,, some opportunity to undeceive her,, and immediately acquaint me with the: event.
I will either come to your' assistance,, if that is neediest, send a full ac
A. count
JL n JL m .n X u XL n u in i • '
count of tny rnifterious behaviour, and leave it to you to comnaunicate it in a gradual manner as She is able to ■ bear; but it is an unnecessary caution — -- had I acted with ybur prudence this had not happened,
'* i
Pity me, my dear Miss Beville, '. and write with all dispatch to your
Obliged and affectionate'
•ft
Friend and servant??
WATSON,
P, S, I am in doubt, whether you will be able to make out this unconnected
io T H E. MAIDEN A L N L connected: letter, but the agitation of
ft
my mind is a sufficient excuse— — I wilh, is to convince you of my for.r row, and that Emma has only to recover to be happy.
LETTER
V
LETTER XXVIII
ft
MISS LUCY BEVILL E,
T O.
MISS CLARA WATSON.
delmain hall.
Yo U R letter, my dear Miss
Watson, is arrived, but alas! too late to answer the wilhed for end. Our dear friend is unable to listen to the voice of reason, or the Soothing sounds of consolation. — I have Several times, attempted to make mysels known,,
bue
isz  ,
but Ihe either gazes at me in silence, with a vacant unmeaning eye, or utters’ her distraction in incoherent sentences. today stie has lain in a kind of stupefaction,
I am sent for — the dear creature has breathed out my name, and looks round with inquiring eyes. — Reviving: news. — “I sty to her chamber — O Miss watson, what a Scene! I have received my friends last adieu — iny heart is almost broke.
When I entered the room Mrs.: Delmain was by her, stie looked tole rably composed — here is your Lucy, my dear, I will leave you together. —
This was very considerate. She held'
out
 ; 1-63?
lither hand, I pressed it to my lips,, while the big tear flowed fllent down my eheek. Weep not, my dear Lucy, said fiie in a feeble voice — weep not that your friend is bidding: adieu to her Sorrows; rather join with' her in returning thanks to the AL mighty, who kindly removes her out: of a worldy where ffie has already ex? perienced So many misfortunes; and
where her Suture lot must have nought'
;
but grief and never 'ceaflhg, bicterriell. of Soul..
V
I thank God' for giving me this interval of reason to beg you, my dear friend, caresully to conceal my Sataii weakness from the world, but especial- -- from my. dear, unhappy brother. —
Com?
i64 the maiden A U N U
Commend me kindly to himy tell liion my last breath will, be employed in imploring heaven, to alleviate his affliction. — Asture Clara of my un? altered friendihip, and my last wilhes’ for her happiness;; my dear aunt this paper, it contains an account of some little trifles, which I have disr posed of as remembrances; endeavour to convince her of my gratitude for all her favours, and my hopes Ihe will transfer them to my brother; and now, adieu my dear, my first friend, may you long, very long enjoy every blessing this world can aflbrd, retain a tender remembrance of a friend',, who hopes to meet you in a. more perfect state
I had
 . 165
I had made no effort to interrupt her, I was unable, though I found her effort had quite exhausted her strength; Her voice grew more and more languid, and her last words were hardly intelligible.
9
I now broke silence, Talk not of dying, my dear Emma; talk not of leaving a world, where happiness instead of misery awaits you; will you break my heart? the heart of your Clara, your aunt, your brother, all your friends? but above all the tenderest of lovers? Can you relist the entreaties of Mr. Beaumont, whose life depends on yours? Endeavour to recover for his sake if not your own; I
have
m  ,
f
I
have received a letter from Mils Watson, which explains the whole mystery; your brother is coming home, her hand is destined for him; Beaumont hopes for yours; shall all these delightful prospects be destroyed? Will
y
you unkindly blast all this felicity? Speak to me, my dear friend, say you will try to recover; heaven will restore you to our prayers if you join yours
A faint exprestion of joy, beamed from her languid eye, but a look of melancholy distrust, soon succeeded— — Ihook her head— — ‘‘ no, Lucy, you deceive.” — • I do not indeed,
my dear Emma, would to heaven you was able to read the letter.’* — I saw
her
• /
I
THE M A 1 JJ Ji N AUNT, lb,
$
ler countenance change and rung for he nurse, who supported her while! gave her a cordial; She tried to peak but could not, then prefiing ny hand. Sunk on her pillow as is
t «
atigued, and made a motion not to be lifturbed; we drew her curtains and etired to another part of the room j when I went to look at her, I thought he had been gone for ever; her eyes, vere closed, and ffie laid So still that [ could neither perceive motion or breath; but the nurse Says, ffie only
I
deeps; but distracts me, by Saying, [he wdil perhaps go off So. — I have been to See her Several times, there is
ft
no alteration. Eight hours ffie has lain So,
The
<
‘ t68 the maiden AUNL
The doctor is come — he says, the disorder has taken a turn, her steep is favourable — he waits till stie wakes,
ft
and hopes then to be able to pronounce her out of danger, — What a blested change! but I am afraid to give way to my joy, till there is more certainty.
Rejoice with me, Miss Watson, our friend is awaked; her fever abated, her mind composed, and her body strengthened; — Ihe looks at me with eyes that ask a confirmation and explanation of my pleasing news; but the doctor has imposed silence on his patient, and indeed all of us; I told him I had something to communicate,
more
T ti E M A I D E N A U N T. fbg
more efficacious than cordials. But he put on such a grave face, and Warned me in such strong terms of the dangerous consequence of any imprudence at this critical period, that I am forced liy my fears to 'obey, though much against my will. — But she may read my looks; nay, I did llily whisper, that tomorrow, if She continued mending, I would satissy her in every point, — She prested m hand with a look of pleasure,
You will now, my dear madam, permit me to conclude with Such welcome news, as my friend Seems desirous of my company, I hasten to her, to watch the progress of her
v oj.. II i amend;
I o THE MAIDEN AUN.D,
1
amendment, and discbarge the pleasing estices of friendihip; in a Sew days vou. may depend on hearing further from, ■ _
¥
* I
Your obliged humble Servant ■
/
LUCY BEVILLE.:
*
1
t
\
/ t
f
—
/ '
«»
ft ♦
LETTER
I
XX XL XTX XX JL xy V J. ft
I
LETTER XXIX
I
>
MISS LUCY BEVILLE,
TO
4
M I S S' CLARA WATSON.,
delmain hall.
t
ft^ur prayers are heard; our dear friend recovers surprisingly— — doctor and I dispute the merit of her cure; but nature was, I believe, the best physician;; that our thanks are due,
I hz I de
«
 .
I deferred any particular discourfe till I Sound the Sweet girl grew anxious, and began to doubt my veracity; this morning, finding her in tears, I began by telling her the step I had 'taken, which had led to the discovery. — ‘‘ Q Lucy, how have you exposed me !” — I endeavoured to reason her out of this punctilious delicacy — Will you, my dear Emma, censure the conduct of all your friends, even your miss watson; let me read her letter, you will find llie makes no Scruple of owning her regard for your brother — ask Mrs. Delmain, or any other person of undoubted modesty, whether it is any breach of it to avow a partiality to an amiable man. — You
See
%
irljc maluihn aunit
«
see ffie condetnns her own reserve,, there was Some reason for it
O
in her lover’s coolness; — how Satal was the consequence! — but I See you are convinced.”
I then, my dear miss Watson, read your letter, ffie listened with a delighted attention till I came to the circumstance of .the picture. — O Lucy! this is too much, I bluffi at even you or clara’s having So striking a proos of my Solly — I am ffiocked,. lest ffie Should be So inconsiderate to ffiew it to beaumonti ffiould never be able to See him; but proceed, Lucy, let her clifpose as ffie wdll of het Emma, my Edmund will be happy.,
I 3- i then.
j74  .
/ •
I then finished the letter— — Spoke - ps your friendihip with a tear of gratesul joy — Dear amiable girl, write Lucy, case the heart of this affectionate friend, let me not make any one unr
V
happy.” — “A good resolution, my dear, I hope you include Beaumont.” ' She blushed— — do Lucy, but his happiness may not depend on me.” '' “Still doubting Emma — would to heaven you were married! v/ill you be convinced then — I lest her to write
this — file Sends for me.
/
What strange capricious beings are lovers — I once thought I knew some thing of the pastion, but I find it was avery stight insection; who would have thought (when I icst miss Villers
X
■
so Satisfied and happy) what Ihe wanted with mei Sound her just got up —
‘‘ I have been thinking, Lucy, since you lest me, of the improbability of what you have told me,. I have read clara’s letter to me; and Sorgive me, my dear, bursting into tears — I cannot help thinking this is all a kindly meant deception; but I cannot, indeed I cannot bear to be tristed with.” — I was hals angry at her Sufpidon — ‘‘ Vv'ill you be convinced when you See Clara united to your brother — I clo not know; my greatesc apprehension is, that her compastion may prevail 'on her to Sacrifice her love and inclination
I
to that and friendihip; I know her generous heart, ncr would I distress it
I 4 for
170 I irl IL m 1 U IL IS II U in
\
for worldsi am not vet so feifilh to
^ J
wish or expect such a sacrifice
«
was quite out of patience at this speech, which was interrupted by sobs,
tears, and all the demonstrations of
/•
griete You are, I See Emma, de termined to torment yoursels, did I not pity your Situation, and impute these V hims to low Spirits and bad health; I stiould be tempted to leave you to the mercy of these gloomy demons you are So Sond of encouraging“ “not chide,. Lucy, I am indeed weak, perverse, and trou biefome.
N
Mrs.. Delmain: entered the rooni, ^
She had over heard the last words —
> %
What
What is the matter,, my dear niece,, what makes you thus accuse yoursels? Why these tears? Tell me, Aliis Beville, what ails this dear ghi “I will, madam; nay, Srown not Emma, I cannot manage you any longer without assistance;; — truth is, my dear Mrs. Delmain, I have been chiding your niece, stie is determined to be.unhappy in Spite of Sat; her illness was entirely occasioned by her causelcss doubts, and 1 find there is no postibility of removing them.”
1 then told all I knew of the affiiir, and begged stie would endeavour to make her iieice listen to reason; stie was Supprifed at her unreasonable doubts, and I lest her to keep up the
I 5 Iwect
9
r75  .
Sweet creature’s Spirits, while I entreat you to Savour us with the particular explanation you promised; to prevent relapses, I need not, I am Sure, desire
t
•miss watson to lose no time on an occasion where the peace of her friend is concerned.
I theresore take my leave, and gladly embrace every opportunity of Sub scribing mysels,
Dear miss watson’s
Obliged friend and Servant,
* *
LUCY BEVILLE.
LETTER.
1 H Jim A 1 D E N A U N T. 13
LETTER XXX
MISS CLARA WATSON,
T O
♦
4
MISS LUCY BEVILLE,
f
%
4
St. james’s stre«t.
My dear, dear Lucy, a thousand
thanks for your two last reviving letters; for the care you have taken of our Emma, and for the pardon, (which, as I thank you beforehand) I hope you will grant to her indiscreet friend. IS
vou « •
V
ISO T H r. MAI IJ h N AU N T.
V
you have a poetical talent, add one more favour, wtite a hymn to the rosy goddess Hygea; as some tribute is certainly due to her, for her returning blefiings* As for myself, iris notin' the power either of love, friendihip, grief, or joy, to inspire me wfith any but their vulgar,, common effects; all. ^ that I can do, is to fet it to music. Though, at present, I find myself rather inclined to the lively,, than the solemn: : Short,. I am half out of my wits. So is Beaumont; I hardly know which is the most; rational being; he is half in love with you; Lucy, so tell Emma to behave well,.
FAS
Ihe has still a formidable rival..
Have
\
Mi AA Mmd MWM M mma 0m ft MM 4» ft M 9 *‘fti/ 3
9
Have you ever a favourite stvain,. my dear? If you. have, give him notice to hold himself in readiness, to lead up the third couple, in the matrimonial procession; you have no ob jection^ I hope, to follow such bright examples; but if you have none on your list, worthy your fair hand, I. will provide you half a score new ones, to pick and choose. Nothing like variety. Though, to be sure, it sometimes puzzles us, and (as with our stlks and laces) we often pitch on,
the worst..
%
Now I know you willi would quit' tills idle chit-chat, and proceed to business But you must make allowances for me,, who am a profested
sj
trister.
js2 the maiden AUN.D
^ 4
i
i
trifler. But you say, this is no time
\ i
for it. I stand reproved, and bid you adieu; as I must now have a little talk with Emma.
And now, my dear girl, as you are I suppose, already acquainted with my Sorrow for your illness, and joy for your recovery, let us mutually exchange sorgiveness; we have both been punished; you for reserve, I for deceit. But you Say, “Not with justice; that your crime was the least, and your punistiment the greatest.” But neither of these points are clear to me.
In the first place, mine was only a single transgrestion, yours an obstinate perseverance in the wrong. Your
uneasiness has been but months, mine
years, ♦
years. Your illness you will plead;
I plead my distress on that account, which will, I believe, make a balance, Beside, my fault, was only the consequence of yours: Confider how wretched was my situation (you now know how it is to love) doubtful of the constancy of the man, on whom I doted; unable to inform him of my own; you, his sister, and my friend, from a ridiculous punctilio, dif ’ couragtng all intercourse between us, and not even indulging me in the pleasure of talking of him. You rest

member a letter you received in London, which greatly affected you; — You remember too, at least I do, that in spite of my prayers, - tears, and entreaties, you cruelly refused me a
4
J. XX Xj IVX JTX A X JU XX Am
sight of it; but luckily putting it in, your bosom, when you fainted at falling downstairs, in trying to recover you, it fell into my hands, I made no scruple of securing it, thinking: I had a sufficient claim to the con
O
tents of a letter which came from my lover, and which seemed to convey Ibme interesting intelligence,
9
When you had been bled, I left you to your repose, and retired to' read my fate, with a stuttering heart,.
Never had I experienced such lively emotions; tender sorrow was the first sentiment his melting complaints inspired me with; but the most rapturous joy was, soon predominant,.
when..
X tl IL IVII 1 12 h IN II U IN i * 1 ^
when I reflected it was in my powtr to reward the generous constancy of the most amiable of lovers. and en sure our mutual Selicity, by a littl e perseverance.,
I then vowed, never to yield my hand to any other, till he had resused it; and with a satissaction, that Had long, been a stranger tamy heart, returned to your room, and dropped the letter on the bed, .not choosing to hear any of your Sage lectures.on the occasion -
was introduced to me that very asternoon;, I Saw with pleasure, that he looked at me with indifrcrence, and as he was So every way agreeable, immediately Set you. down, for each other., Your affections.
were
tbo 1 jn il ivi A I LN rsi a u jn i.
were, I knew, disengaged; and where could you better difpose of them? And the deuce was in him, I thought,, if neither of us was to his taste.
Your first meeting convinced me, i
#
was hals successsul — I read love and admiration in his evcty glance; time confirmed my observations; but your reserve balsted all my penetration : I osten suspected, and as osten retracted my Suspicions : Vain was every method I tried to extract the Secret from you; whether I raised your hopes, or alarmed your jealousy, there was no taking you off your guard; and when you insisted on leaving town, I began to despair of completing my design: : I Saw more at a distance than near:
■ Your
* XX X XXX X XX. X XX w X X. i
Tour melancholy, your ill health; every letter intimated the state of your heart; but it did not amount to a certainty : I cannot describe beaumont’s mortification, wdren he arrived in town, and found the bird stown; he Seemed thunderstruck,,, nor could all his efforts, for an appearance of ease,. conceal his disappointment; which 1 was mischievous to enjoy; but I did not triumph long.
, ft
One day, while he was with us, s letter came to my papa, which he very imprudently read out; you will not be Srighted, .Emma, (as my ehearsul ness must convince you, all is now well) when I tell you, Edmund has been wounded in a duel; the first part
of
t
rs8 THE M A I D E N A U N T'.
of the letter was' very alarming, I didf not chuse to wait for the conclufioiijj, So sainted, away...
This,, and my behaviour on my recovery,. plainly told how my heart stood affected; I was carried to my chamber, and continued in hysterics all night, and for several days was confined to my room, with a kind of nervous fever. Who would’ have thought love would have such power over Clara ?• Seriousty, i' believe, nothing but the Savourable accounts, WT So osten received, would have - recovered me, as I had a violent inch
I
nation to render my Same immortal, by Sollowing my lover to the strades. '
Thai
n H. ivl I 1 JL IN 2l U rsx log
#
The good old people, you may suppose, were full of trouble, and apprehension, I was too ill to be chid, reproof was lost in consolation, and anger in compassion.
Beaumont declared himself other ways engaged, and pleaded my cause with energy; my father was convinced, and told me, my choice Should meet with no further opposition, if Mr. Villers, at his return, retained his former sentiments. I said, I had no doubt of his constancy; though this duel, Emma, has an odd appearance..
Beaumont had called several times, I was almost ashamed to see him;
however.
39^0 T H jj. M A i V il IS A U IN! ♦
» i
Lowever, at last admitted him. I expected to be rallied, he found me •alone, he approached me with a saucy smile;; congratulate you. Madam,
on Mr. Villers being out of danger; the vivacity qf your eyes, the charm ing glow on your cheek, convinces me he is — ’* “Thank you, firi
bowed. ‘‘nay, you may well bliilh. Madam, I wonder what excuse you ladies make for your dangerous dissimulation. I think there Should be a law to confine you, from appearing, without being distinguished, by Some badge, from the unengaged part of your Sex, to warn us men of our danger.
4
9
suppose
T H E MAIDEN AUNT. 191
suppose now, which was almost inavoidable, I had given you my leart, in expectation of a return, what old have been the consequence? leath undoubtedly : But I Saw at the irst look what I had to hope for, jondage was too legible in your coun
enance to be mistaken: I theresore
*
teeled mysels to ycur charms, and, hanks to my own prudence, not your ntentions, in Spite of all your attrac ions, escaped the Snare.”
Oh! to be Sure, str, you was rery prudent, no body doubts your sagacity. But come, Beaumont, don’t be Saucy. Edmund, I suppose, will not be able to return Some time; I am engaged to a wedding as bride
maid.
3, 9-2 THE MAIUEN AUNT,
J
r
maid, he was to have been my part tier; now, if you behave well, you Shall supply his place, as I ftippofe harley’s impatience, will get the better of emma’s scruples.”
He started out of his chair— —! — Harley! — '
“No, not Emma Harley yet, Mr. Beaumont.” He again threw himfelfin the chair.
What do you mean, Clara? For heaven’s sake explain — ”
Mean, why only that Emma and my cousin Harley, who I stippofe you know have been long engaged,
 . 193
%
are going to be married. You knew She went into the country on purpose, sure
/
! distraction! ruined, lost for ever !” exclaimed he, - in a furious accent, beating his breast, as in revenge.
/
“bless me, (cried I) who would, have thought this, poor Mr. Beau
*
I So then your penetration did not extend to miss Villers, you could not See bondage in her countenance :
o ^
nor guard your heart against her charms; stis really a pity you had not been a little Sarther lighted. Well, ' we have nothins; but discoveries, I am
O •'
quite Sorry for your case. You look vol. TT. K
104 THE M A I D E N AUNT.
#
pale, shall I sprinkle Tome water in voiir face, or will the eaii de luce do.'’ Holding him the bottle.
This is too much, Clara, I can not bear ridicule.”,
He was going' — I got between him and the door. Stay a little, I don’t think you are fit to be trusted alone; beside • are angry with me; come make it up, and I promise to Send vou the prettiest willow garland imaginable, twisted by the Sair hands of the bride; Sori suppose you will not be of the party, least you Should break a commandment, and covet your ncisrhbour’s wise.”
o - -
*
He
1 tl JL m PX L U XL is A U JN! •
He turned from me displeafed. I took his hand, and led him to a seat.
This diflimulatioii is a thing, Beaumont; had you made me your confidant, much might have been
t
done. Now, what would you give to be in ned’s place ?”
V
Give, madam — the world, was I poffested of it.”
It. would not be the world well lost, then — as poor Harley has been positively rejected, and you have still that chance left.”
It was with some difficulty I gained belies; when I did, I thought he
K 2 would
1^6.
would have adored me; I.avas forced to remind him, that I was not his Emma, and that, though you had resused Harley,, it was not a necessary consequence that you would accept • him.
ft
This Soon put an end to his ecstasies, and we began to deliberate how to proceed. I told him to leave everything to me, and undertook to gain. your confidence, and stand his friend; on these conditions, he Sorgave me the fright I had put him in.
He was perpetually importuning me to write, ' but I delayed it, till Mrs. delmain’s history was concluded;
, as I could not think of interrupting it.
He
THE MAIDEN aunr. 197
He told me, that he had sometimes flattered himsels with hopes; particu
* 4
t
larly the mafipierade night; and attributed your reserve to the engagement you thought him under, and an excessive delicacy, which he adored, though it had made him So wretched, and begged me to remove every '
4
shadow' of doubt. He would have wrote hiinsels, but I would nor allovv it, as I had Sormed the design of find hig you out slily, and at the Same time to tease you a little for your reserve.
Your letter, at the Same time 'it
* ijb
answered my purpose, made me tremble for the consequence; I was writing to undeceive you, vffien lucy’s
K 1 terrisying:
198 THE maldtn A U J T,.
4
%
terrisying account came. Word cannot express my horror, at a project which had before appeared So innocent..
In the midst of my distress, Beau*’ mont came in, full of news, but was struck dumb by my dismal appearance; I was hardly able to acquaint him with the cause. I was too much agitated myself to give any particular account of his behaviour. I only know he raved,, and abnsed poor me,, for my well intended stratagem;, though, had he known it before, I am Sure he would have applauded my ingenuity — but people will judge by the effect; this is not Sair. Well, is ever I Set up Sora plotter, or matchmaker
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ^
maker again, may I never be married myself. A solemn protestation, Emma, enough to make one tremble.
<
Thank Heaven, the storm’s blown over, and Beaumont and Clara as great as ever.
Oh! I forgot his news; pretty extraordinary too. Do you know, he has been your brother’s confidant sometime, but only knew him by the
9
name of Neville; knew he was violently in love, but with a lady whose name, ’till this letter, was a secret.
i
Beaumont too, has given him a punctual account of all that pasted in
K 4 our
700 X n XL JLVI il 1 JJ il IN u JN 1
$
our Samii}" — the projected alliance —
1
his love for you — and the very letter of his duel — my behaviour on the cc cafion — in stiort, every particular.
What an odd affair. There is a long story, I find, of this fighting affairt — a lady too at the bottom — but no room for jealousy, he astures me.. We are to have their letters laid be
♦
Sore us, when w’e meet. So we stiall
*
find out all their tricks.
Beaumont had the astiiranee to.
1.
propose our returning this confidence — but I WT; uld come to no Such agreement; it wmuld be making them.. too vain — So I told him, he knew Ect what he alked; that I could not
consent
^ ■ “' — ^ ^ PW ^tr 4pft
consent to mortify him So much; though to be Sure he had Some Superfluous vanity.
9 m
The wretch is absolutely insufferable, since he. has Sound me out.
i
When we get together, wt shall
»
them better; I aiir Sorced to threaten him that; Till complain to you, which Soon humbles him.,
My papa and mamma enclose letters to Mrs, Delmain, requesting her •company, yours, and lucy’s, at wood park, wfiiere we Shall be next
I
month. The Beaumonts g whth us you will bring Edmund; What a meeting I I know your dear, good aunt won’t resuse, and break all our hearts.
K 5 ■ Tell
fb X XX Xi # XTX MA X X / My Xs XX W Ls X
Tell her we are all in love whth her,, and is Ihe will give us her company for a Sew months. She shall dispose of me, all my lise aster. — Mercy on me, V hat a packet, I have not wrote So much these Seven years.. — Admire my modesty— — have made, a. conquest, and kept it to fill up the. ^ last corner. Sir Francis Flemming, has received a random, stiot from miss watson’s bright eyes, and applied to her papa for satissaction : Poor man,, it is but a slight wound; I hope time,, not I, must be his physician— —
I have but just room to fubscribe mysels,
Yours affectionately, -
CLARA WATSON.
LETTER
— — - — — _ - ^
LETTER XXV
A"
t
• I
HENRY BEAUMONT, ESQ.' ^
T O
EDMUND VILLERS, ESQ,,
Load oa.
«
Ye. S, yes, I can easily now recall that consused idea, that has So long haunted my imagination, like a half
%
dream; to the power of divination you add that of an interpretation; equally ikilsul in both, though
K 6 to
„ mm 9^ — — — — ^ ^ 'I MM W A. 'I A 9
to be sure this last may be accounted for without any preternatural means..
I am amazed at my own stupidity; my eyes and senses must have been both sascinated to want any clue to so obvious a mystery — it w’^as not intricate enough to deserve that name; but love engrofifed all my Saculties,. I Sunk in the Sweet delirium, and dreaded any eclaircifiement that might awake my reason to oppose my wisties. — Thank Sortune I have no Such power sul adversary to encounter; everything conspires to make me Supremely blessed.
Your charming sister has been ex ceeding ill, but is now quite recovered;
this
— — — - — w — — — tmim' mm m mmm m w ^ ^ mm W' Mm ^9.
this (lucky I had almost said) event has cleared up every doubt;, stie lovegi nle, Neville, (villerst mean) loves me as tenderly as my own Sond heart
could desire;; I ever deserve her
*
flattering partiality
I intended to have made youf
4
goddess, my friend, but She always? puts on Such a Saucy arch look, that I durst not encounter her raillery ^ poor bastisul Sellow, as I am! however, aster I had discovered her Secret,. I thought stie would lay aside Some o her airs, and it'would be a good opportunity — when I was admitted, the conscious glow on her cheek tempted me to retaliate Some of her raillery — I did So; when the little artsul vixen,
4 with
X 11. U lyx XX X jci JTX l.y X A
with an appearance of humility and consufion, changed the discourse, and.
in a careless manner alked me to ac
%
her to her cousin harley’s and emma’s wedding. — You may .easier conceive, than I describe, my distraction, which the malicious (not angel, Villers.) enjoyed for hals an hour, retorting all my sarcasms iiii such stinging repartees,, that never was poor dog of a lover in Such a piteous plight. I could not Speak; is I had, I Should have cursed her and the
4
'whole Sex, I believe, and So brought
your worstiip’s resentment on me. — •
Faith, I can hardly now think of her
%
cruelty with patience; though aster tormenting me till She was tired — • Ihe, to make me amends, contradicted
^ MM TAM mms MA ^ MS A 0^
dieted the intelligence, and promised to be my friend.
She however delayed taking any
J *
step in my Savour till I became impatient, and Sorbid me to intersere, but by all my hopes of success to leave it entirely to her management — • I did not like this inactivity, but was
Sorced to Submit..
«
%
When I received your last letter,, I flew with eagerness to communicate the welcome news, and acquaint miss. watson with my discovery — I entered her dresting room with a vivacity that was immediately checked by her appearance — stie was writing, bathed in tears — the tears of a woman always
melt
: sqo X JAL JL JL Jut IL LT n j rs 14
melt me. — What then must clara’s?
%
the Second dearest of the Sex — my voice Sunk to the accent of pity andi
9
Surprise.
‘‘ I was coming, madam, ta make you a partaker in my satissaction, but it is vanished at your Sorrows, in
which I already Sympathise” — “Ah,.
%
you have but too much cause, Emma, my dear Emma.” — The bursting gries stifled the last Syllable — I threw myself on the Sopha by her — ^ Oh Clara t rack me not with uncertainty; is my angel ill ?” — “111, ill indeed, reiterated stie — perhaps — Oh Beaumont 1 I have killed her— — have tried her tenderness too sar’h — Killed her 1 What do you mean ?” — Read, read,
returned
AA jlmm XJTA A A A Ay Aa A A W
returned she,, me letters, this I. received two or three days ago — this today. Sweet Saint! llie will die,. Beaumont; and I,, the unhappy cause, stiall go distracted — Edmund, I can
a*.
never See himj*^
The first letter was in answer to one miss watson wrote, to discover how stie stood affected to me, by insinuating that we were going to be married — — it had the intended effectit^ Spoke the tenderest, the most delicate of pastions,. whilst stie endeavoured to conceal it. — The other was from a friend, miss. Beville,, with an account of her being dangerousty ill — in affecting terms — ah, how dear is stie to all that know her i I was by turns Srantic.
a nek
210  .
S
and stupified with gries. — ■ I blamed Clara, cursed mysels, and would have Set out immediately, but she advised me to wait another letter, as my presence would rather increase, than alleviate the distress of the family. — • While I was reading, her streaming eyes were fixed on a little drawing which miss Beville had enclbsed — I begged to see it. — Ah, there is no: longer occasion for reserve or delicacy with me indulge despair, heighten your Sorrow by viewing this •, perhaps the last performance of her dear hand. — See the mischies 1 have caused, and pity the horror I now feel.” — Oh,. Villers,, what a picture!.
Clara
X XX MM jltx jtx X X / lid XU jtx w X 1 # X 1 X
Clara and I besore the altar of Hymen; you with a Sword plunged in your breast by the fide of Clara, the Sweet Hniner; the picture of distraction by mine. I stood; .my Seet riveted to the earth, my eyes to the mimic Scene besore me; miss watson, begged me to return it, but never will I resign this invaluable proos of my angel’s love — I have dearly purchased k by the pain it cost me.
The next letter gave us great hopes, which her amiable friend Soon confirmed, and astured us stie was not only out of danger but almost well — and I your happy friend have the transportingthought, that the afifurance
of my love .contributed to her recovery..
»12 1 il Jim A X n B. N AUN i,
very. — Oh! how ardently I long to pur out the effusions of my doting, heart at her Seet; — never, never Shall I be able to reveal a thousand part of that more than love, that unutterable pastion with which I adore her — now doubly dear since file repays my tenderness. I am impatient too to pay my acknowledgements to Lucy Beville, how infinitely are vve all indebted to the care and prudence of that amiable girl! do you know her, Villers? Twas file first Set things en trains.
My Sather readily consents to the alliance; Mr. watson also approves it, and we only wait for one more letter from delmain hall to make proposals to the good lady III form.
So
JL MIX Ej IVI X JL JIM in LX LJ xn X ^ js I
I
So much for our affairs here — now for yours in France, I shall Say nothing of my concern for your accident, but •congratulate your recovery, which I hope by this time is completed; I Should not have waited it at this distance, had not the critical state of my love broke in on the rites of friendship — I know you will admit the force of this excuse.
/
lam only displeased that you take no method to bring the affafiin, he deserves no better name, to justice; it is your duty to free the world from such a villain. Your behaviour, except this point, through the whole affair, was just, was generous; — Agnes
\
was entitled to your protection as a
man
: s 14 J xa il iw A 112 II IN A U IN 1 •
4
man of honour, how much more then as a friend! I pity the innocent stilferer — the heart that has not a sigh, the eye that has not a tear for her pathetic letter, must be insenfible to all the finer pafiions — Ihe must not be fufsered to Seclude hersels — a mind like hers cannot find repose in a convent; at present her griess have wound her up to a pitch of enthusiasm;; as one subsides the other will decline — a monastic lise was never the choice of reason, but the flight of Sancy. — Youthful minds are too liable to these excursions;; when once the Satal Sacrifice is made, the ardour of imagination cools, they find the horror of their situation: : cxercises which stiould lift the Soul to
heaven,
 . heaven, grow languid, uninspired —
I
the flame of Teligion, once So bright. Scarcely burns at all — they either are the staves of Superstition or regret, the first torments them with the unworthi eess of devotions in which the heart has no Share; or the last, with the Solly of devoting themselves to a life unpleasing to heaven, and wretched to themselves.
r
I still flatter myself, Agnes will be
overcome by your perruafions, and re
1
turn with you to England : — IS stie has soresworn love, stie may still receive the consolations of friendihip, which is Seldom to be met with in a convent. Clara was a little suspicious about this duel, I Sancy, though stie would
not
ai T H E MAIDEN A U N .D
✓
t
V
not own it; — however, I have made her easy, but defer a particular explanation till we all meet at Wood Park. Our two families go there the middle of the month, and hope you will bring Mrs. Delmain, your sister and her friend to join us, they are already invited,
%
I have promised, our two charmers stiall inspect all our correspondence, hoping by that means to remove every doubt from thebosora of my Emma.
Adieu. How does the name of brother endear that of friend?
Yours
f
HENRY BEAUMONT.
4
THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.
/
ft
THE
VIAIDEN AUNT.
• V
VOL. IIL
$0
4
M'
$
\
I
#
1 i
%
I _
«
0-
- /
• ^
/
\
^ I
K
9 -,
. i
* • _
V
\
^ • *
41.
* V
h
f
. I
's •,.
S
\
, ^
V
- ' \
* ♦
\
%
MAIDEN AUNT.
I
WRITTEN BY A LADY.
%
IN THREE VOLUMES.
/
V o C HI.
0
V
m
L O N D O N:
vl?rintfid FOR J BEW, PATER noster ROW.,
MDCCLXX'VI.
I
V
V \
—
v
<
* ^
♦ '
V
*

«
}
1' Jd E
I
MAIDEN AUNT.
LETTER XXXII
MISS EMMA VILLERS
I
TO
MISS CLARA WATSON.
\
^ delmain hall.
^ R. E A D IL Y, my dear, my kind
t
V friend, readily can your Emma kiss ^ the rod, and own her faults; the ^ chastisement I have met with may
.j be just — but indeed it was Severe; —
^..
p do not then add to it by raillery; I
P might be wrong, - I dare say I was,
vol. III B you ■,
2  , you Say So — but still my proud heart
I
insists bn the goodness of my intention. — Bound by a Secret promise to your good papa and mamma, who have been rather parents than guardians to me and my brother — could I, without the blackest ingratitude, abuse their confidence, and encourage an attachment So contrary to their inclinations, and your interest. — No,
Clara, I could not! — had not Mr. watson restrained me, by my word, • — my sense of honour and obligation
#
would have been Sufficient to. have
%
%
kept me from deviating from that path, which he wistied me to pursue «■ — but you, my Clara, was not the
only
 . 3
only (I can hardly think the greatest) Sufferer on this occasion; So dearly did my tender pastions pay for the triumph of reason: — you know my almost unequalled affection for Edmund; what then must I Suffer to be the confidant of his impalfioned complaints; — and instead of administering cordials, to be obliged to apply corrosives— — know too, that my srienship is equal to my fisterly as section — can you then suppose that I Selt not every sigh, every tear you shed, which (over ready to torment mysels) I could impute to this cause. — Ah! how osten have I lamented
rny wayward, Sat, that made me a
• *
B 2 Source,
4 1 U Jim a1 JJ Ji JN A U JN 1'.
)
Source of pain, to the too nearest my heart — my brother doubly dear, as the loveros my friend; my friend, doubly dear, as partial to my brother— — remained for me but to wish you both to conquer a pas fion which had no prospect of success— — eager as I was to discourage it, I could not acquaint Edmund with your intended marriage; I thought the fiiocking intelligence might make me hatesul to him, and left it to chance to convey the unwelcome tidings. — Yet I own I was Sorry when I Sound ou on the first visit, resolved against Mr. Beaumont; as
;
I hoped your alliance would in the
end
 . 5
end restore peace to my brother. —
desperate remedies in Some cases, are
*
alone efficacious — but when I Saw Mr. Beaumont, every wisti was inverted, every Sentiment changed — my heart became the stave of new emotions — I was racked with conflicting paflionsj love, honour, reason and tenderness, were continually at war in my breast; Mr, beaumont’s behaviour to me, encouraged hopes, which my friendihip
9
to you, made me condemn, as I persuaded myfels he was no longes indifferent to you; my constitution was
N
not equal to my internal struggles; — I Sound my health decline, and began to think flight alone could
B 3 restore
6  .
restore it; — beside, I dreaded my own weakness — the masquerade determined me; the accident and his behaviour, threw me off my guard — I blushed at the recollection of my weakness, but determined to prevent the consequences of it, by immediately retiring to Mrs. beville’s. — Need I bid you pity me? — The fortunate meeting that introduced me to my amiable aunt, was but a temporary relief; my thoughts Soon recurred to their painsul meditations; and the additional Sortune I was taught to expect, was an additional regret, as it carne too late to procure me happiness; yet I determined to conceal for ever, from
all
 . 7
air but Lucy, the fatal Secret that prayed on my Spirits, and gladly laid hold on my aunt’s recital, to Surnisti out a Subject for my letters, which without Such a confinement, would,
I Sear, discover more of my sentiments than was consistent with pru dence. But your letter defeated all my precautions, and drew aside the flimsy veil, - which I with so much
■%
pains had wove to hide my weakness. You alk my forgiveness, my friend,
for distipating my reserve, and Sree
>
ing me from restraint; the most painsul of all situations, to a mind naturally open and candid; ’tis true, the
<*•
Smart was at first keen, but a fkilsul
B 4 Surgeon
0^ ma t 00 0 mm m.p. ^ m rnm a ^ ^ M 9 W
%
Surgeon must not Spare his patience, but probe to the quick, the wound he is to cure; that cure amply ret

pays his Salutary Sufferings. You, my dear, have pursued this plan — but what amends can your poor Emma make for the uneafiness Ihe has involuntarily given you? None! — to Edmund I transser the debt, may he — but I know he will repay it with never ceafing love. I have
Sollowed your example, and entered
\
into this tedious justification of myself and conduct, as I would willingly remove every trace of dissatisfaction
/
convince you, that the Sphere I have of late moved in, was the
result
1 ti ivii 1 ju rin VU IN 1. 9
result of necefiity, not inclination. — My aunt has received your papa’s obliging invitation, and will with pleasure accept it when my brother has joined us.’* -- We have had letters from him which Sully show his impatience to return. — You, my Clara, are the first: cause, though we have all a stiare of his affections— — aunt is prepared to love you both, and I have bespoke her Savour for anothor person, how peedless that! who can See and not be prepostested in Mr. beaumont’s — - “Let me. Said she, hasten to enjoy, the greatest' earthly Selicity, that of making those I love happy; and in their happiness, Sorget my own youth —
B 5. Sul
t
0
X w X XX Li XVI jtx X XJ j2d xn * UJ LN X #
Sul regrets; — the mildness of my autumn, or rather winter of lise, shall make amends for the Severe storms of the Spring.” — Have I not reason to bless my Sat, and think my sels a Savoured mortal? I know I have — yet I repine — I am unable to Support my Spirits, I Seel mysels hum
t
bled, Clara, humbled to the very dust! — I can never look at Beaumont with confidence; I am convinced he knows
r
all my weakness — that picture too — Sure he must despise the Sond, the Soolisti girl — his love, at least, must be mixed with pity, humiliating reflection. Alas, I thought I had no pride, but the wound it has received
X X J. XII Y J. .tawjl'l XII,
'■*
1
ved, makes me feel I have. Had his behaviour countenanced mine, I could bear it, — but he is So calm. So' collected, — Sure he cannot love — yet
V
he has Sometimes discovered emotions - — but what of that, his Sex dispences
\
with those delicacies, Ib requisite in ours. — Oh, my Clara 1 will you not at the almost equal!y wilhed dreaded meeting, will you not a little check your charming vivacity, in compas fion to your abalhed friend? and help to Support me on the trying occasion.
I' know you will — My aunt too, my Edmund, my Lucy, — well, I will not be soolish; — he will not cruelly tri •
J
umph in my consufion, beside I stiall
B 6 have •
'T
4 M X XX IL IL L 4 rx X i
\
t
have a little recovered my spirits by that time. They make me ride every day,, will not Suffer me to be alone;
t t
but continually contrive Some new amusement, and entertain me with the most pleasing topics. — I have already gained courage enough to dis course on the Subject next my heart, they kindly encourage me to indulge mysels in this point,, which So much lightens that load,, concealment had burdened my bosom with; they flatter all my wishes— — Say flatter, for all at present is uncertainty; even, should Mr. Beaumont be all you represent him — he has a Sather — his consent may mot be So easily obtained;
I will L
\
THE malujijn AUJNT. ij
I will intrude on no family — I find I must leave offyou will be displea fed with my petulance, perhaps with cause; - — I was not always thus, but my friends,. or rather my illness has Spoiled me — I fear I shall never regain that placid dispofition which you
used to compliment me on, — Heaven
0
make me worthy of those blefiings already bestowed, and those I presume to Solicit; — worthy the most amiable of men, or never let me be his. — Conceal, my dearest friend,
conceal these idle discontents, which
\
I trust to your bosom; expose me no Surther to Beaumont, and I will strive to write, to think, and behave
with
I
14  .
with more equanimity. — And now, my dear friend, having as I hope," made Some amends for my Sormer reserve, I quit the pen, with my belt respects and acknowledgments to Mr. and Mrs. watson, and Sub Scribe
mysels your affectionate filler (allow
0
the title) and
* /
Obliged friend,,
i
EMMA VILLERS.
P. S. lucy’s love and compliments. — You have already rivalled
*
me in her Savour, what will you do when you meet
LET
*
MAIDEN AUNT.
LETTER XXXIII
MISS CLARA WATSON
T
MISS EMMA VILLERS.
St. james’s ftreet,
F O R Shame, for stiame, Emma L I could not have believed you could have been So perverse;. I have absolutely no patience with you; Mrs. Delmain and Lucy are too indulgent by hals; had I the management of you, I would allow none of the whims and vapours; they have Spoiled you
sure
20 I tih maldhn AUNT.
Sure enough; why, child, you are
quite a pett, and cry and tease your
\
for you know not what.
But the pretty dear’s pride is hurt, she is humbled sorsooth — humbled that she has betrayed a partiality Sora man whose love is (now pride Smart) an honour to her. Serioufiy though Emma, I must have this growing petulance checked — I cannot part with the Smallest degree of that sweetness which rendered you the darling of your friends^ — you Say, “Heaven make me worthy the most amiable of men.” — Amen, with all my heart. — Set about it, Emma; to accomplifii
that
 . 17
that wfilh, even you, good as you are, have no Superfluous merit — the man, my dear, is a prodigy as times go; he is one of those who does not use
4
virtue as a cloak to his Saults, but
K
caresully conceals his virtue under an appearance of gaiety and vivacity — »
I.
but I know no theme So pleasing to a love fick damsel, as the exploits of her hero; So will give you the particulars of the affair that makes me Sa fluent in my encomiums.
I don’t know whether you observed a genteel servant Miss Beaumont hired since we came to London; I have osten Seen her since you left me, and
found
28  .
found something in her appearance so much above her station, as engaged my notice. Her person, which She strives to conceal in a habit remarkably plain, is strikingly elegant, but' so excestively thin, that Ihe feems rather an aerial being than a substance— — face is fine, wdth the strongest exprestion of sensibility I ever Saw, but clouded with a melancholy that must be the result of the deepest despair; and the lianguid hue of her complexion, discovers a constitution finking under the pangs of filent grief.
You know enough of Letitia, my dear Emma, to be Sensible she is not
one
 . 19
one of the kindest mistrestes, but will
be Sorry to hear she could be cruel
#
enough, to try to heighten the distress of a woman, who was plainly in a situation to which Ihe had not been used. I have been Several times shocked at her insulting behaviour besore me, which poor Julia evidently struggled to bear with humility; I have thought sometimes stie would have fainted. I alked Letitia several times where stie met with her maid, and if he knew anything of her Samily? suppressing any favourable mention of her, as I knew that would rather be making her usage worse. Family! Lord, my dear, how can
I
you
20  .
S
you suppose I know anything of them; I Should not have taken the girl, only I was at a loss Sora maid; I had no opinion of her from the first:; I suppose She thought by telling me She was not used to Service, that I was to keep her in idleness, for stie is fit for nothing; So awkward and troublesome
a creature you never knew — “Ihe
\
pretended to Saint one evening when. She was dresting me, and excused herself by saying, ihe was not able to stand So long •, and cried and made a fufs because I told her, that Ihe had
better lay aside her airs and do her
0
bufiness. I shall discharge her the first opportunity, as stie is much too
fine
 . 2t
4
m,
fine a lady for me — but I beg your pardon, my dear, continued She, this girl is not worthy our notice,, let us change the Subject.’^ I was too much hurt to conceal my dis gust. So took my leave. Once or twice I attempted to enter into conversation with Julia, but Ihe declined it with a respectsul humility — my
looks Seemed to abash her. I could not tell how to proceed, I pitied
her Sat and willed to relieve her, but how was the difficulty.
I had not Seen her for Some time, when a Sew days ago, I called on Letitia, She was not quite drefised,
but
2z X n r. ivi V jci IN u i.
but admitted me to her toilette; where Ihe was venting her Spleen on her amiable attendant, who appeared on the brink of the grave. — I would
gladly have condescended to have Supplied the poor ere;, lure’s place, who I Saw was ready to expire with Satigue, as this Santastic fine lady is generally three or Sour hours at her glass.
t f
In about half an hour, Beaumont came in — I have news for you, Letitia, who do you think is married? — your old Savorite Sir Charles Clairville, to miss Marlhall — I Saw them this morning, and he intends
paying
thlh maldbjn auint. 23
paying his compliments to you this afternoon. — Julia was just got to the door, and miss Beaumont was cal ling out, where are you going girl? when unable to proceed a step sar there, she tainted away— — Screamed, and your Swain ran, listed her from the floor, and Seated, her on a Sopha; I held a smelling bottle to her nose, while her unseeling miftress Said, Lord, what trouble you give yoursels about the creature, I wonder what ails her now — is Ihe is not well enough to go to her room, one of the men may carry her.” — ' We paid no attention to this kind Speech, till a Servant, who she rang for,
came
_
came in — Send Thomas, cried stie, to carry this girl our of the room,
%
and do you come and finisti my head.” — For stiame Letitia! — stie stiall not
t
be moved, get a glass of water, Betty.” — The girl Soon brought it, and by beaumont’s orders, withdrew. — miss sat pouting — You give yourself great airs, Sir, but I suppose there is a reason for your behaviour” — Then seeing the poor girl open her eyes — “I beg you wfill leave this room, madam, and the house as Soon as polfible; I stiall pay you your wages, immediately— — beg I may have no Surther trou ble about you; your behaviour entitles you to no character from me.”
I stiall
 . 2$
I shall obey you, madam, (endeavouring to rise) and though I have given you no cause to resuse me u character, but by my being unfortunate, shall not apply for one; as the little time I have to Suffer, will render any place unnecessary” ” — then thanked Beaumont and me for our care, and apologising for the trou
y
ble She had given, withdrew; — he whispered me. to dfay with his sister a little, as he wanted to Speak a Sew words to Julia; I nodded aqui cscence, and he left us together. I endeavoured not to mitigate her anger, as I thought her service was no
I
eligible situation, and determined to
vcl. Ill, C astist
•- “
astist Julia, and Settle her in Some other way of lise. I .wanted to hear how stie was, and in Spite of my companion’s ill humour, waited till
#
near dinner time, in expectation of beaumont’s return, but was Sorced to go wfithout Seeing him at last. — I inquired for him of the Sootman, who
#
s
opened the door, and was insormed he went out Some time besore; — I then alked, isle knew how Julia did; very bad madam — but She is gone” ‘^gone, returned I ” — yes madam, stie went in a chair, and left word by Betty, that as stie had given her lady So little satissaction, She did not require any
wages.” -- -- -1 was surprised at this
in
* -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
and ruminated on the adventure all the way home; I had
t
not a doubt, but Beaumont had removed her, and the malicious insinuation of his sister, darted into my head; but I Soon discarded it; ’twas
m
. improbable, is he had any connec
k
tion with her, that Ihe would So long remain Subject to Such ill treatment, beside their behaviour disco
I
vered not the least Symptom of intimacy, and her dejection was visible from the first, which was besore his return to England.
I did not long remain in suspence
— he came in the asternoon, and beg
\
my company alone; we retired
to my dreffing room, when I eagerly inquired for Julia. — I flatter myfels, from the concern you express for that unhappy girl, that miss watson will Sorgive the liberty I have taken, in using her name, to astist an object whose delicacy might have been alarmed at any offers of service from me.” — I told him he could not have obliged me more, that I had long been interested in julia’s affairs,, and only wistied an opportunity to be her friend; I then alked where stie was, as I was certain he could inform me. I do not deny
it, replied he — when I left the room,
/
I Sent one of the maids to tell her,
f that
> ■ 0^
t
«
 . 29
that I had a meltage from miss watson, and begged Ihe v'enld ad mit me to Speak to her. — I had long been convinced Die was not born to the station stie was then in, and was confirmed in that opinion, by the accounts I received from mv Servant.
J '
who told me She was a Savourite with all the Samily, though She was very
f
reserved— — stie was always in tears,
%
and eat So little, that it was a miracle how stie lived — but to return — stie Sent word stie would attend me, and immediately came; I told her you was much affected at her appa rent distress, and the treatment stic received, and wistied tq remove her
C 3 from
30 THE MAIDEN AUN.D
from a station So little worthy of her — Ihe burst into tears, ” — ‘hhe lady. Sir, is very good; I am indeed an object of compastion, but I cannot complain, I deserve all my wretchedness — my own Sufferings will Soon be at an end; but oh, distracting
* V
thought I ” — stie paused, I am, madam, So is miss watson convinced
A
you merit a better Sat; stie begs you to rely on her friendstiip, and remove to a place where you shall be taken proper care of — you will not, I am sire, disappoint her kind intentions, by resufing her assistance— — this trifle for the present; — you may depend on hearing from
her
 . 31
her again Soon” — Ihe was Sull of gratitude, but begged to decline the present, as Ihe had no immediate occasion for it. — I cannot. Sir, but acknowledge, the lady’s generosity en titles her to be made acquainted with, the particular missortunes that reduced me to this way of life, in which I have acquitted myself so little to Miss beaumont’s satissaction — llie no doubt expects it; yet I Seel an in vincible repugnance to deprive mysels of miss watson’s good opinion, which a recital of my life mull inevitably do; — yet I will not impose mysels on her, for what I am not. It would be too great a blelfing for
'C 4 a wretch
3^ 1 n xh A u IN 1 #
a wretch like me, to pass even the
■■V
very Short remainder of my lise, under her protection. — misery must be my portion to the last — I realtured her of assistance, and desired stie would not distress hersels, as no communications would be expected, but what was persectly agreeable to herselsr — » to Ihorten my story, Ihe is gone by my direction to a house where ffie will be treated with humanity — her name I Sorgot to tell you is Elcott.
I now, my dear Clara, entreat your
\
advice how to proceed; — I am convinced, notwithstanding what she Says, that She is an object of compaffipn; —
how
 , 33
however, as Ihe may have been guilty of Some Srailties, and as I, know you ladies have a Superabundance of delicacy on these occasions,
4
I cannot hope for your concurrence J — and am searsul Ihe will make Scruples on being under my care — beside, the world is malicious, and its reports, may wound the gentle bosom of my Emma — what shall I do? — Why, to be Sure, as you represent it,, the case is rather puzzling; — but, as I luckily happen not to be one cs those outrageousty virtuous ladies, you Seem to apprehend, I can easily remove your difficulties, by Sulfiding the promise you made miss Elcott
C 5 m
34  .
in my name, and which I have no' inclination to make you retract; — but come, tell me where Ihe is? I feel myself prodigiousty interested, I can forgive follies, and Ido not think Ihe has more to answer for.” — There. Spoke the woman of virtue, cried he, catching me in his arms (do not be jealous Emma) — Dear amiable Clara, how I admire your generosity— — I have still one Scruple left, I cannot resign my charge, or acquaint you where Ihe is, but conditionally; — you must promise that all pecuniary assistance stiall come from me; your countenance will be a Sufficient obligation, and 1 owe Some reparation
for
 . 35
for the insults Ihe has received in my family — I am Sorry Letitia will force me to despise her ” — I told him I would positively come to no Such agreement; what did he mean, by making me his almoner? as is nobody had a heart but himsels. —.
Nay then, I have done, returned he, I must: Sail on Some other Scheme.” — and was going. -- Stay, dear beau mont, I * yield, it shall be as you Say; — he insisted on a positive pro mise, I could not resufe, as I impatiently longed to visit the Sair afilic ted Julia. — I wall acknowledge to you, my dear, that my impatience was not unmixed with a certain pre
C 6 dominant
T maluiiin a U IN Ti
dominant female passion— — stranger even to my Emma, I Sancy; — her fainting at the mention of clairville’s
t
marriage, gives risc to a Supposition he is no stranger to her; — Beaumont and I discoursed on the affair
9
a good deal.' — tomorrow morning he is to attend me to a Mrs. benson’s, a widow, with whom he had placed her — I shall acquaint you with wffiat pastes, I hope Ihe wfill not f s reserved, though I will not pressed her on the
i
Subject, it would be highly cruel, and making her pay too dear a price for my friendihip — this little adventure
m
, will help to fill up the time, till
Edmund arrives— — how tedious
does
/
 . 37
9
4
does every hour appear! — I long to foe you too, my dear friend, your aunt,. Lucy, every one you love; — but thank Heaven, the happy time draws near. — My papa and mamma are in high good-humour. So are all the Beaumonts — as to miss, I impute hers to Sir George mellison, who is always at her elbow — the rest of the Samily do not Seem much displeased with his astiduity — a disagreeable creature, I think. — Frank Beaumont, too, has been in town this week, he is to accompany us to wood park — a Smart young Sellow — tell Lucy to Set her charms in array, or rather, on Second thoughts, to trust to that sweet fira
plicity.
38  .
T • ^
• 0.
plicity, that native loveliness you have described, which must certainly en
f A - I i
chant him — I know his taste; — but
observe, PU have no hand in it, I re
» • -. * ’ «
too well the punishment that
%
awaits me, by my own rasti wilh, is ever I engaged in an affair of thct kind again; — I only give a hint — She
'/ V • ^ -
is not a woman, is stie does not take
it; — I am for having everybody in
• " ' *
love, to countenance our unsalhionable
Selves — you remember the fox who
> • ^ ^
had lost his tail — and 1 suppose will
• >
• ^ • • apply it to your Clara — IDO not
care. Adieu,
4
• ^ P
CLARA WATSON.
%
 . 391.
f
LETTER XXXIV
y
%
0
MISS CLARA WATSON
4
T O
s
MISS EMMA VILLERS,
/ «.
X
%
St. james’s ftreet.
I AM too impatient to Scribble to
my beloved Emma the iltue of my morning’s adventure, to wait for an answer to mine of yesterday, thought 1 flatter mysels she will riot long delay it.
Well,
40 [ .
Well, we went about eleven to chelsea, and was received with great civility by a decent, elderly gentlewoman, who is, I find, widow to Mr. benson, who was, on beaumont’s first going to travel, his tutor. She
told me the young lady was just rising,,

though to her She appeared .hardly able — it was with difficulty she had prevailed on her to breaksast abed— — find then, madam, Mr. Beau
A
mont did not deceive me, when he said, miss Elcott was in a place where Ihe would be treated with tenderness.” He could not doubt that, madam; I. stiould be the most ungrateful of
women, is Mr. beaumont’s recom
■
mendation
  41
%
mehdation was neglected by me;
A
beside, the poor young woman re -- quires some care to re establisti her health and Spirits, which Seem to have Suffered greatly; and her modest, agreeable mannct, and the air of dejection spread over her Sace, raises sentiments of tenderness and companion, and insenfibly influences one in her Savour, no one. Surely, could treat her with unkindness — as to me,
1 have not Sorgot how it was to be unhappy, the situation from wffiich your” — — Say no more, my good Mrs. benson, you will not let me be so often your visitant as I could wilh;
how osten have I astured you, that I
/ > '
can
r
42  .
can never repay the many obligations I am under to your worthy husband'
'• *
♦
• - p..
entered the room, Ihe was fflrelted in a genteel delhabille, quite
different from what I had ever Seen
» ( «
her — file paid her acknowledgments for my favours in an elegant manner, but with an (if polfible) increased
melancholy. — I endeavoured to difii
— *
pate it by the most encouraging be.
. • - ‘
haviour I could assume, and proposed sending for some advice for the restoration of her health. Alas, madam, that is beyond the power of medicine, ” replied she, bursting into tears, “nor would I wilh my wretchedness
 . 43
€
cdness prolonged but for one dear, one tender tie; O my God, strengthen me to bear that insupportable thought!” ‘‘ Do not, dear miss Elcott, despair, we may be able to render things easy to you, when you can with composure let us into those parts of your distress, that is in my (and let me ansver for Mr. Beaumont) power to alleviate; till then you must repress
painsul recollection” — a Smile of gratesul satissaction Sora moment beamed on her languid Sace, but instantly vanished, and was Succeeded by a blush and these words : — Ah, madam, I cannot Suffer you to bestow favours on one, whose history, did you
know.
44 THE MAIDEN AUN.D
know, you might repent your goodness — I owe you some account of myself, and readily Submit to the penance of recounting what is too deeply engraven on my memory, ever to admit a moment’s peace — ^blisssul attendant on my youthsul days, why, ah why, did I Sright thee from my breast? why deprive mysels (horrid reflection) the wretches last resource,
/
the hope of meeting thee in the quiet grave ?” — I Selt mysels greatly dis trefled. — You must not, ” Said I, dropping a tear, you must not, indeed, enter on a recital that may give you pain — I am Sully convinced you merit the little Services that are in
my
 . 45 my power to render you.” excuse
t
lie, dear madam, I shall be easier when I have unburthened my Sull
leart, you Seem so good, that I would latter mysels you will, like Some forgiving angel, look with an eye of pity on frailties of which you are incapable; I have but a short portion dis time to promise mysels — I must: husband every moment, as I may be Soon incapable of receiving the last painsul pleasure that shall touch this, heart.” Mr. Beaumont rose (how kindly considerate) rightly judging his presence might embarrass her more; he pleaded bufiness, and promised to call on me time enough for
dinner.
^ A AXE W A •
dinner. Mrs. benson too arose— — dear madam, I already have Sufficient prooss of your goodness, tc make no Scruple of revealing to yon my Satal weakness — ah, why do 1
. give it So mild a name?
0
#
HISTORY OF MISS ELCOTT.
My Sather was dcscended from a younger branch of a respectable sa mily, but as my grandsather’s only support was a genteel post, he thought
V
it most advisable to bring his Son up to the army, where his interest might astist his merit; he accordingly, at the age of thirty, was at the head of a company; but his Sather then dying,
4 and
1 H. JL IX I L JL is /xij JN 1.
¥
and some dispute happening betweei^i him and his relations, he had no hope ^
of Surther advancement.
%
Soon; after he married my mother, poffested of every requisite to happiness but a fortune — with her he lived but a few years — a wound he received in an engagement deprived us of our Support — I was then about Sour years of age — his disconsolate widow immediately wrote to an elder sister in more prosperous circumstances, acquainting her of her misfortune,"and received a letter of kind eondplance, desiring her to settle her affairs as Soon as possible, and come to her, ' who Ihe
would
4.8 1 Ltlt!. ivl a1 jji H. IN auinl.'
would ever find a friend. My mamm; accordingly took me into Kent, am received an affectionate welcome Sron
4
her sister, who, being a widow, pro posed our residing entirely with her but my mamma declined that offer as my aunt’s way of lise was too ga]
i
for her, she theresore chose a final house at two or three miles distance where stie could, without interruption indulge her melancholy — the litth money Ihe had, was laid out in making her retreat agreeable — here stie livec on her pension, lamenting the loss oi the tenderest of husbands, and preparing, hy a life of exemplary piety,
to be again united to him. — My com
\

 . 49
pany was her only consolation, but of this Ihe almost entirely deprived hersels for my advantage; as my aunt declared her intention of adopting me for a child, and giving me a genteel fortune, which, being immensely rich. She could do without injuring her own daughter, of whom Ihe was extremely fond. I was brought up at her house, and received my education from the same masters who attended my cousin. louisa was three years older than me, of a haughty, assuming temper, im patient of control — my dispofition being of the opposite kind, I Sound no difficulty in yielding up every point to avoid contention; my mamma, to
TT ^. ITT TV „, 1__
jltle MAIDEN aunti
whom I was a constant visitor, early imprinted on my mind a sense of the obligations I was under, and my little heart Swelled to express its gratitude for the benefits I received — as my behaviour was Sull of respect and fubmilfion to my aunt and cousin, you will not wonder that I was a favourite with both— — latter in particular grew so fond of me, that Ihe bore with patience even the preference that was sometimes bestowed on me in the course of our education — everybody was Surprised to See me keep in Savour with a girl So haughty and capricious, that none of our young neighbours were able to live on a
friendly
 . 51
Friendly footing with — but in me She saw no rival — I was dependant on the
I
bounty of her family, and devoted to her pleasure — on her dear Julia then did She lavish all her regard; and particularly, besore our mothers, affected to treat me as a sister, though she Sailed not to make me osten Sensible of the difference betwixt us; especially when any company treatec^ me with more attention than Ihe thought my due — this was Srequently the case, but my little pride was too much gratified by the cause, to be much mortified at the effect — but why do I dwell So long on my happiness, why recall Scenes that 'only make the Sued
2 ceeding
52  .
%
ceeding ones more dismal, and add a keener pang to those I Seel.
s.
4
$
ps joys departed not to return, '
t
how painsul the remembrance.” I
stiall pass over the trifling incidents
>
till I was sixteen— — commenced
%
>
my missortunes.
t
M
On a week’s visit at Lord d’s, I became acquainted with Sir Charles Clairville, who was come to take leave of that noblemian besore he Sat out on his travels. — I Soon perceived miss Marlhall had the Same Savourable opinion of him with mysels, and that stie omitted no means to make a conquest
of
-- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - w
of him — shall I own my heart sighed at the probability of her success. — She was a fine striking woman, but the hauteur of her air rather rendered
4
her features Sorbidding than inviting. I had not made this discovery it was an observation of Sir charles’s; who soon, to my unspeakable delight, declared himsels my lover. — Ah, with what rapture did I listen to his irnpas fioned vows of everlasting love! — he was then unseduced by the Sastiionable follies and vices, which, to my ruin, he has since imbibed. — There was no time for reserve, nor did I strive to conceal my Sentiments — we parted with mutual regret, and mutual prod
3 Sestions
X XX X.Z JTX KJ X.
Sefiions of constancy— — cousin for
tunately had not discovered our at
%
So continued her kindness. I had, during his Sour years absence, two or three very advantageous offers — but I was So steady in my resusal, that it was not in the power either of my mamma or aunt to.
stiake my resolution. — louisa added her entreaties to mine; She could not
0
bear, stie Said, to have her dear Julia made unhappy by a forced marriage, — I readily gave her credit for the motives that induced her to take my
m
part, but I was cruelly deceived — her vanity would have fnffered by one so inferior being fettled before her — beside

1 GAOL ivlaluihin auin 1. 55
fide I was become necessary to her as an humble companion — but, alas 1 being artless mysels I suspected no art — but I am now hastening to a period which blasted all my Suture hopes of stappiness, and made me the wretch 1 now am.
The long wistiedtor time of my lover’s return at length arrived; he came to Lord d’s, and Soon paid his compliments to our Samily — how did my heart stutter when he approached me! — I viewed with pleasure the Specious improvements he had made, and exulted in the Sancied persections of my lover. — He Sound means, und
4 observed.
observed, to slip a letter into my hand, expressive of all my doting Soul was Sull of — but his. Oh God, how opposite to his deluding words! — louisa was Sull of encomiums — I was filent — Nature had not endued her with any great stiare of penetration, or stie must have discovered in my looks how truly my opinion corresponded with her own.
In a Sew days, we received an invitation from Lord and Lady D — - to be present at a ball that was given there. — My aunt, who had still a sondness for youth Sul amusements, readily consented, — We were there
Several
several days, of which the ball was the moult disagreeable — for as his Lordstiip paired us, I had the mortification to See miss Marshal engaged to the only partner I could be happy wdth —
I Saw too how well Satisfied She was at her lot, and in Spite of Sir charles’s astiduities and asturances, I could not support my Spirits — he Saw the jealous
/
pangs that tortured my Soul, and was too artsul to lose Such an advantage —
o
he. increased my suspicions at the time
V
he seemed trying to remove them, ' and by this means gained a Satal ascendancy over my actions — he in.. himsels So successsully with Mrs. and miss Marshal, that he red
5 ceived
\
ceived an invitation to Spend Some
'\
time at their seat — though he Soon accepted their offer, yet the intermediate Space was So painsul, that I could not conceal my joy at his arrival — but still I was not happy — I Saw
m
my cousin aiming at his heart, I Saw too he would, on every occasion, give me pain by flirting with her; I dared not look or Speak to disoblige him, and from an excess of love became a stave to his tyranny — yet all this I could have born had I ever enjoyed his company; but miss Marshal never lest him half an hour — it was in one of these stiort intervals he threw himsels at my Seet, and with irrefisti
bk
ble eloquence, besought me to give him Some opportunity of conversing with me in private, as he could not support the constraint he was under in the company of miss Marlhall; beside, I had not yet made him happy by exchanging vows of love — I urged the impostibility of obliging him — he raved — nothing but inclination was wanting — he knew an interview in the day was impracticable, but what hin dered my admitting him to my chamber? I resented this proposal, and alked him what he had Seen in my conduct, that made him expect I Should be guilty of Such an indiscretion?? what, ” answered he,
D 6 has
Ik
has my charming Julia Seen in her adoring Clairville, to Scruple granting him such a favour? can she suspect his honour? but, no madam, ” with
t
a haughty air, “I See I am no longer the Savoured lover, and I Scorn to be the slighted one — kindness is with me the greatest charm. — miss Marshal will not resuse me Such a trifling request — I despise a prude.” I was not
r
proos against this — I burst into tears — the artsul man at length, by Soothing my weakness, and alarming my jealousy, gained his point; I agreed to admit him that night, on his reiterated proseffions of respect — but ah I Sound, too late, how little they were to be
depended
depended on — every art, every per fualion was used for my undoing — but I resisted— — upbraided him for hist ungenerous proceeding — but I Soon found my arguments were vain. — What could I do? — the door he had Secured
on entering — he reminded me, that
«
by alarming the Samily I stiould only expose mysels, and publisti a report prejudicial to my reputation. miss Marshal, he astured me, was my enemy, and would be glad of such an opportunity to ruin me with her mamma — I might depend on his honour — was I not his? — would I by my obstinate unkindness persuade him my heart was insenfible to his pastionj
But
9
But why, ah why, do I Seek to excuse myown guilt, by describing his? these weak extenuations cannot, ought not, to have weight — I Should have refilled to the last — I Should have Suffered poverty, infamy, nay, death itself, rather than dishonour. — But love, seducing love, made me listen to his bewitching arguments, and trust his faithless vows!
I
Ah, with what conscious Shame did I next day appear — I thought every one acquainted with my disgrace — I dared not look on my un doer, who dexterousty slipped a letter into my hand — I retired to read it —
He
9
.1 jli XVX XX X XJ XL xn xjl U XX # ^3
He expressed the truest contrition for his last night’s behaviour, which he Saw had incurred my displeasure, in treated me to make allowances Sora fault proceeding from love, and to suffer him to repair the fancied injury, by making me his wise; — he Should be at my chamber door the same hour as the preceding night, and ■ begged admittance for one hour only, to entreat my pardon, and consult in what manner to proceed, with regard to that ceremony, which was to ensure our Suture Selicity.
I own my Soolilh heart Sorgot its Sorrow, in the contemplation of my lovers fidelity; I forgave him all my
wrongs, in consideration of the pro -- posed recompense— — I determined never again to trust mysels in his power, my soul Shuddered at the idea of accumulated guilt. — I wrote a note, ' proposing to meet him at my mother’s, but he gave me no opportunity to
N.
deliver it^he was but two punctual to the hour — he tap’d at the door, I absolutely resused to open it — he vowed' he would be admitted, and talked lb loud, I Seared he would be overheard; — “did I mean to drive him from me, by my ill timed reserve, in which, if I perfisted, he swore he would abandon me for ever, ” — trembling at this last threat, and knowing my
wretched
t
wretched fitpation, with reluctance — I again opened the door, — again put myself in the power of this insinuating villain, who too cruelly punished my credulity. — He told me he would next day leave me, though with regret, to hasten the preparations, and Settle Some little affairs, he would then return, obtain my mamma and aunt’s consent, and make me his in the sight of Heaven. — He would have delayed this journey, but nothing else could appease my Shame and Sorrow — he continued writing for Some time, inventing excuses for his long absence, but every letter was visibly cooler than the last; yet it was not till he
totally
totally neglected me, that my eyes were opened to the extenfiveness of my ruin. — To complete my distress, I Sound mysels with child; — I acquainted Sir Charles with the circumstance Several times, but received no answer; — in two or three months, as is everything conspired to add to my affliction, my aunt expired in an apoplectic fit. — As Ihe enjoyed a good state of health, Ihe never thought
'O
of making a will; I was theresore left entirely dependant on my cousin, whose behaviour had ever since Sir charles’s visit, been very cool; — but I Soon Sound a visible alteration. She
i
became haughty, insolent and tirannical,
to
jt
to an insupportable degree. — What
I
could I do? to return to my mamma,
I could not think of; her Small pittance could ill bear Such an encumbrance, beside, my situation could not be much longer concealed. — > Should I ‘f)reak her worthy heart by a discovery of my stiame? — osten did
I attempt — great God,. Sorgive the effect of my distraction! to put an end to my unhappy being. — But conscience, which makes cowards of us
• \
all, restrained me,
A
I determined once more, to write to my undoer, and try to move him, at least sofar, as to procure Some
retreat
%JU A. XX XJ IVJ. XX X X JLJ x t XX W A #
retreat for my approaching hour. — I was weeping over this letter, which I had just directed, when miss Marshal entered my room, I had nc time to conceal it — She catched it up. rage Sparkling in her eyes — “this 1 have long suspected, but I will nov see how Sar this pretty intrigue has been carried I begged, nay tried tc force the letter from her, but lh( quitted the room, leaving me in j state not easily conceived, but impossible to be described. — In about hall an hour, miss marlhall’s maid came to me with a mestage from her mif tress, commanding me instantly tc leave the house — I expected no less —
as
 .
as it was late in the evening, I deter mined to go to my mother’s and make some excuse for my disagreement with my cousin, and again write to Sir
I
Charles, but at all events conceal my missortune from my mamma — I entered the house more dead than alive; Ihe received me with truly maternal affection, and tried to comfort me, by promising to go to Miss Marshal and bring about a reconciliation; I tried to dissuade her; she replied, I would not, my Julia, wilh you to Submit to anything disagreeable, but confider, my dear child, how unable
9
I am to provide for you after my
death 5 my health has been long declining;
570 THE MAIDEN aunti
clining; ah, let not my last moment be embittered by the reflection, thai leave my darling exposed to an unfriendly world, without protection.” — Just as file had finished these words,; servant brought her a letter from m' cruel cousin, it contained these lines '‘madam, aster reading the enclosed you cannot blame me for breaking of all connexion with one whose insa> mous conduct must bring disgrace or all her friends.” My mother wrung hei hands — oh Julia, unhappy girl, how haye I deserved that you should break my heart? could you not have staid till I had closed my eyes in peace? —
I
I fainted away. — Permit me madam,
tr\
“ . yx
to shorten as much as poffiblo this ^ stocking period. — Alas, I am unable to Support the recollection, - — I saw the poor creature turn pale— — benson
9 *
gave her Some drops — a flood of tears
»
a little relieved her; — ^ste proceeded,
✓
f
— the agonies of my mind, hastened the birth of my hapless little daughter, near two months besore my time;
I vristed, but did not dare to ask my mother’s presence, but I did not long remain Sensible of this supposed un kindness; the day aster my delivery,
I was Seized with a voiolent Sever, and remained a week delirious; — happy state to what Succeeded. — My first inquiries on the return of reason, was
for
72  .
for my insant and mother, the first they brought me — Ah, how was the pleasure with which I prested the little innocent to my bosom, embittered by remorse for having entailed
insamy on the unhappy offspring of
0
my crimes and wretchedness. — I again
4
inquired for my mother, and alked il Ihe had Seen my little Julia; the nurse hesttatingly answered, no; I inststed on
I
feeing her, — the compastionate woman wept — I was alarmed, — oh Ihe is illj or has left me, left me for ever.” 1 tried, weak as I was, to rise, I would
i
^0, I would See, and try is the innocent little partner of my distress, could move her in my Savour. — My nurse threw hersels on her knees by my
A
 . 73
9
bedside, entreated me to be composed;
— at last I drew from her the fatal
«
Secret.
My mother — Oh God! my mother was no more; unable to support the Satal stiock — -- she expired the day my daughter first saw the light;
— ■with her dying breath. Sending her pardon and blessing to her ofltending child; that child, who repaid her tender care with the blackest ingratitude; and instead of cherishing her declining years, had brought down her venerable grey hairs, with Shame and Sorrow to the grave.
t
vol. III E This
74. X n JL XVI .rtl 1 JL VI XX jt *
Xhis increase of affliction almost put a period to my woes; — but I was
/
reserved for longer Suffering. I recovered in Some degree, but my dis
♦
order fixed on my spirits, and by degres reduced me to what you now
.1
Sec.
When X was capable of reflection, I disposed of my mother’s effects; but that, and the little money I poffeffeci, would not long Support me; miss Marlliall Sent my clothes, and other things I left there, but had not the humanity once to inquire aster me. I had Some valuable ornaments, these too I have since converted into moi

ncy,
♦ •
 . 75
ney, ^ — I could not bear to remain
\
in a place where everything reminded me of my missortunes, and wsterc I had lost all the respect once paid me,
i
I determined to come to London
i
and endeavour to get some genteel place — but how to dispose of my little Julia? — I could not bear the thoughts of parting with her, but it was una
I
voidable.
The woman who nursed me, de
V
fired I would trust it to her care;
She was very Sond of the dear little creature, and aster agreeing Sora price
E z and
70 tuji malujijn A U JN T.
and a thousand times recommending my darling to the good woman, I tore mysels from all that was dear to me on earth.
AI
applied, on my arrival in London, to a milliner I had Sormerly dealt with, Ihe recommended me to miss Beaumont, but my ill health rendered me incapable of pleasing her.
Sir charles’s marriage was an unex
\
pected stroke, though I had long given up any hopes of assistance from him; — the accident which gave rise, madam, to your pity and Mr. beaumont’s, may perhaps be fortunate; — as to myself,
'. I stall
 . 77
I stiall Soon, very Soon, close the painful Scene, and with an humble reliance on Infinite Mercy, bid adieu to a world, in which I have acted So un
4
worthy a part. -- -- -- 1 have, theresore,
nothing for mysels to wisti — but oh,
9. «
could I leave my child, madam, under your protection, every pang would be alleviated.
Here poor Julia finistied her melancholy narration. -- -- -- 1 gave her the
strongest; astlirances of complying with
A
her request, and Sound out where her little Julia was.
Beaumont Soon came in, I took my leave, and acquainted him with the
1 n m lu XL Di u i.
#
heads of her story— — for her child, and called on our physician, desiring him to attend miss Elcott immediately; tomorrow I stall See her again, I am Sull of bufiness. Adieu.
9
CLARA WATSON.
f
t
V
V
i
#
LET.
J
LETTER XXXV
9
I
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T O
> 9
0
MISS CLARA watsotl
delmaln hall
V
»
. JL HANK you, my dear, my charming monitress, for your Salutary reproofs; I hope I have profitted by them; my aunt and Lucy compliment me on my amendment; I Seel
<'
mysels much more composed, and
E 4 Should
W XX JL AWM MAX. JLM M A A 0
Should be entirely happy, did not an unconquerable tremor attend the thoughts of an approaching stene. — But to trouble you no more with my vapours, as you (I believe justly)
9
call these discontents, let me hasten in my turn, to convey pleasure to my beloved friend, by congratulating her on he arrival of the tendered, most constant of lovers. — Yes, my Clara, Edmund is returned! — returned all
V
our fondest wisties would have him, r — Ah, with what heartfelt satisfaction, did I embrace this (I had al
♦
most said) most amiable man; you, my friend, will readily allow him to
be
 . 8i
i .*
be so, but I must make even here, one exception — you know his Sormer sondness for his lister; but it is now increased to a more than common as section; — he treats me with the tender freedom of a brother, the respectsul esteem of a friend, and the polite attentions of a lover. — What a happy girl is your Emma!
Mrs. Delmain is charmed with her nephew — yet, their first meeting cost her Some tears — So striking a resem blance of my Sather, brought back too Sorceably the disappointment of her youth — but stie now forgets the
E 5 parents
* V
I HE MAIDEN AUNT.
parents in the children, and oste® looking at us with unspeakable delight, exclaims. Surely I am the happiest of aunts! — I have acquainted Edmund with her history,, his. beha
I
viour to her, is that of the; most: duiiful and affectionate of Sons: — He has repaid my communications; by relating the particulars of his.
r
intimacy with Beaumont, and stiewed me Some letters from him,; where you. are highly flatteredemma is the stibject. of the most animated,, most elegant pen, ever guided by mortal fingers. — I at first w: as consused, embarrassed, and would have avoided the
fubjea —
tne MAIUEJN aunt; 83
Subject — but my insinuating Edmund, soon dissipated my reserve, and brought me to a Sull conseffion of a Sensibility,, he joins with you, in affirming I ought to glory in; — and I do,, indeed I do, my own unworthiness is the only allay to my Selicity; — Superfluous merit” — my Clara need not tell me thaty I am conscious all. my endeavours will be insufficient to make me deserving of Such a man. — How noble his conduct in regard to niiss Elcott 1 — I Should not have So long delayed entering on that Subject, did I not know you, my Clara would readily Sorgive the overflowings* of fisterly affection. I remember the
E 6 pastage
0,
84 1 W II ivl A J JJ in A U JN 1
pastage of your last letter. “nosubject So pleasing, c— — now let me give my opinion of your new adventure. — You as well as Beaumont, have acted like yoursels, that is, above praise; I applaud you for triumph
y
ing over our sex’s salse delicacy, which instead of extending a hand to raise a Sallen sister, cruelly astist the other Sex, in plunging them to those depths of wretchedness from which there is no return. — Julia appears an object of compastion; het Sault, though it cannot be excused, is greatly extenuated by the circumstances; and her deep contrition, joined to her missortunes, converts censure into pity.
• — I hope
X J.J. IL ix sx X ly JL ^ u 1.
— I hope the sight of her child, your
ihf
Soothing consolations, and the prescriptions of her physician, will restore her health; we will then (for you must admit me of your party) think on Some eligible situation for her; — poor unhappy woman; — Surely her Sufferings have atoned for her indiscretion.
. — What wretches are that Sir Charles and his Lady — their union be their
I
punistiment. — I am called down; Edmund is reading an interesting book, my aunt and Lucy are impatient, as he waits for me.
O Clara, in what a pleasing palpitation is my heart! — I was sitting at
my
%
86 THE MAIDEN AUN.D my tambour, attentive to my brother,,
s
when a Servant entered the room, and gave my aunt a parcel of letters; — She laid themi carelessiy on the table, and told Edmund togo on; however, he laid down his book, and begged he might not prevent her perusing them.
'— Ihe took up the first,, and opening; if. Said I am Sure this hand is strange to me; then casting her eyes on the ftibseription — ' Henry Beaumont ” — I. started, blushed crimson deep,, and;
t
hesitated— — Sancy, madam — excuse me — t believe that letter is for me.” ' —. “I beg your pardon my dear” — stie turned to the Superscription; you
V
see it is no mistake— — Smiled,,
Soi

1 ti IL mj\iurui\dl\jis L. 8 J
so did Edmund; I was greatly coni sused,. and was going to withdraw,, when, my brother stopped me by Saying,, I think I discover among those
N
Scattered letters, one directed to miss. Villers; perhaps,. Emma, that may be the expected one — he presented it tome,, I retired to read it.? — Oh my friend, what a letter! - — how could I, fear he would presume on my weak
%
?' how delicate!; how respectful !: he writes like a man ignorant of his own merit, and my partiality,, and; ihtreats my favour as. if he doubted; success— — shall not attempt to answer It. — Sir henry’s letter to my aunt is, m elegant terms — the purport you.
may
s8 1 H Ji ivl a1 U II JN A U JN 1.
may easily guess — but too flattering to me to be repeated; — Surely is I do not grow vain, I ih.all deserve commendation. My aunt desers her proposals to Mr. watson, and answer to Sir harry’s till we meet at wood park. — Edmund begs me to hasten you, he is impatient of restraint; this little absence appears longer than all the rest, he Says; — he absolutely pines. “Tell my divine Clara, Says he, how ardently I long to pour out at her Seet, the effusions of my soul; speak for me, my sister, till I am permitted to speak for myself. — Adieu, my dear Clara, — hasten to receive him, and your
EMMA VILLERS.
 . 89
/•
/
LETTER XXXVI
f
♦
EDMUND VILLERS, ES<L
T O
HENRY BEAUMONT, E S
4
delmain hall.
xsvt this hospitable mansion, the
4
venerable Seat of my maternal ancestors, is your friend, my dear Beaumont, at length arrived. I thought it my duty not to deser waiting on a relation, to whom I was under, even be sore he Saw me, great obligations;
how
X XTL SIM xvx XX X SJ jci xh LX kj IN X fr
\
how is that sense of gratitude and respect increased to the highest filial affection, by a more intimate acquaintance with her goodness. — Nothing but this duty, and my impatience to behold a beloved sister, could have
made me neglect the calls of friend
0
Ship; as to miss watson, I had predetermined to proceed in a regular way, by first applying to her
A
Sather, whatever the delay might cost my heart; — however, I have since changed my plan and intend to accept his invitation, (ah, was it possible to resuse) and at wood park, where first my love commenced, bring it to a happy period. Nothing could
exceed
1 n jci xyi 1 jch IN w IN 1 • 9^1
exceed the tender meeting between me and my sister, I thought she would have fainted in my arms, while, with equal delight, I strained her to my bosom. With what pleasure do I view the improvements, three years has made on this lovely girl; you, Beaumont, will forgive a doting brother’s pride. She is the darling of all her friends; Mrs. Delmain loves her with a mother’s sondness — who can help it such a pleasing person, Such a gentle ness of manners, and Such an obliging disposition !• — will be one of the happiest of men — I Should have said the happiest, but that my Selicity, pofifested of my Clara, cannot be exceeded.
92 ltlil maiuil JS A U JN 1.
You, no doubt, expected to hear
» •,
from me besore I lest France, and
• i
now will alk is I have Sorgot Agnes? I have not, Beaumont; — the damp that unhappy affair cast upon my pleasing prospects, still at times returns, a sigh will be ever due to the recollection of that amiable girl, I Seel mysels unequal to the talk, of giving an account of her final Separation; ' however, as you, I know, interest yoursels in her
destiny, will give you a Short imper'
'«
sketch of our parting Scene. — I deserred waiting on her till I was
7
persectly recovered, as my emotions
might have endangered a relapse;
«
— I waited Some time at the grate •
• besore
 . 93
before she appeared; — at last stie ap proached with an air of easy dig nity, and Solemn composed aspect; —
4
I was Ihocked on observino; Ihe had
o
already taken the novice’s habit; — I
*
could not Speak — I Seared, Sir, (with
I
a hals Smile) that I had too deeply offended to have been Sorgiven; and that you would not have indulged me with a last Sarewell; and I cannot yet So Sar conqer my attachment to the world, as to have been easy under'
. J
Such a Supposition— — “my lovely friend, how could you one moment harbour Such an unkind suspicipn of
your devoted Neville? But happy as I
*
must be to See you at all times, and in
all
94 TUI!. MAIL? UN AU in LI
S
all places, permit me to express my regret, at meeting you in Such a situation, such a habit! — I am come, but not to take a last Sarewell, I must not, indeed I must not Suffer you thus to quit a world, in which you were designed to be admired and happy; the Marquis dares not now appear to claim you; let me most amiable Agnes, let the most saithsul of friends, conduct you to
England; — miy sister, all my Samily,
✓
m
will study to leave you nothing to
«
repent in the confidence you repose,, me, ” — “husti, husti Mr. Neville, do not try again to unsettle my thoughts, I must not listen to the Seducing Scene you lay besore me. —
Strive
 . 95
Strive not, oh most generous of men, strive not to distipate that peacesul resignation I have been courting to this too long agitated bosom; excite not wisties, which as they can never
A
be gratified, must be a Source of continual discontent; the Secret vow, wffiich I have breathed to Heaven, is equally binding with that I Soon stiall make besore the altar; — but that I hope will disengage my mind from every earthly thought, and entirely raisc my affections to the only object worthy to engross my soul — strengthen then, my beloved friend, strengthen rather than weaken my pious relblu tionsj — you once, (never forgotten
will
9& THE M a1 U LI N AUNT.
will be that day) informed me of a tender engagement; — you are now
■V.
hasting home to the happy lady; may I hope every obstacle to your union is now removed.” — Her com. posure, > as stie Spoke, gradually left her; at the close of her Speech, the tear glistened in her eye — I Sound the
V
lovely ■ enthufiast’s resolution was not. to be Shaken, and ceased to make her distatisfied with the lot stie had chose. — I theresore recounted to her the change that had happened in my affairs, and once more entreated her not to damp my Selicity, by remaining in a plaee where I Seared She would be unhappy. — No, no, it is the
only
*
 , gy
only place where I can hope for peace; — never, never will I quit it. — But I find this conversation affects me toa much; — all I have left is to desire among more pleasing thoughts. Sometimes to have a place in your memory; and, is ever you, your amiable lady or filler, visit this city, to Savour me with one hals hour’s conversation, I stiall then I hope be better able to Support it; but I cannot expect to be remem
i
bered without Some token; may I stat
I
ter mysels those ladies will honour with
their acceptance these trifles? pre
1
Senting me a little parcel) and that you,
•oh too tenderly beloved Neville, will let this little Shadow Sometimes recall
vol. III F the
98  '.
tlieh unsortunate Agnes to your re isiembrance. — Tell them my history
t
and while they give a sigh to my misfortunes, astlire them of my constan prayers for their Selicity.' — And no adieu, perhaps (Support me Heaven' for ever.” — ‘^ah, stay my dear Agnes stay yet a moment, while I vow ni dine or absence shall ever obliterat* the sense of what I owe you. — Oh, d( not go, I have much, much to Say!’ — She turned her head, and Saw m( kneeling on the other fide the grat(. — She returned. — ‘‘.do not, oh Neville do not add to my distress — I can il bear my own Sorrow — but yours — ^01
I
Save me from Such a pang! — Suffc;
m(
 . 99
/
me to depart while I have power, ** — She put her hand through the grate — I prested it to my lips and tried to Speak, but my strong emo
%
almost choked me; — my heart was melted to a woman’s sostness, and tears of tenderness flowed fast down my Sace. — Oh, tis too, too much !’* exclaimed the Sainting Sair one, and Sunk liseless to the ground. — Prevented from alfisting her myiels, I loudly called for help; two of the sisters
hastened to raise her and carry her
#
to her cell — I waited till they brought
i
me word she was recovered, and her last adieu; I then departed to my lodgings, so absorbed in grief, that it
F 2 tras
loo  .
/
was long before Aiy mind would admit any object, but the dear expiring saint; Such Ihe appeared to me when the nuns bore her from my sight. — I opened the box She gave me, it contained two valuable rings, elegantly Set, for my, filler and Clara; with a fine iikeness osherselssor me, in a cafe richly ornamented with jewels. — Ah, why is the moll valuable ones buried in a mine for ever. — I have engaged my filter to correspond with the amiable recluse — I know it will give her pleasure, and we may Some day make a party to Paris; — I cannot give up this dear girl — my Clara will allow .of the affection I Seel; it is of too '• different
1 H h a1 A 1 JL b JN AU Is 1. joi
different a nature to interfere with my unrivalled adoration of her. I could Say to Agnes with more propriety, than eloisa does to Abelard,
ff
“May faims embrace thee with a love iike niieri’*
V
But to quit the melancholy topic which hangs too heavy on my Spirits, and which I dare not indulge : let rrie inquire when we are to meet; Surely my Clara, Surely yw, Beaumont, have not hals my impatience, is you delay this happy meeting, which will, I
hope, crown both our wishes- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
spend our time here as agreeable as it is polfible in the absence
F 3 of
* t
J QZ X XT JL JYJ Jx± jly JU JIX jtjl it. X »
f
of the beloved object; — we have our music, our books, our little excursions, our Sociable neighbours — yet I am reftless, distatisfied, and hals stmothered sighs burst from my lister’s bosom; — the dear girl blushes when Miss Beville echos them, and with a look of tender solicitude, enquires if Ihe is
S
well, : — This Lucy is a sweet gentle creature, excestively fond of Emma. — • I know many young fellows make a joke of Samale friendihip, I believe our Sex in general distike it, — But for my own part, nothing would give
/
me So ill an opinion of a woman, as her having none of these amiable attachments;
-- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
4
tachments; — it aiwavs areues a bad
O
disposition— — love a susceptible mind; and dearly as I love my Clara, Should never be jealous of her friendsliips, while they are confined to worthy objects; that is, of her own Sex; Sori own I should not admire those prodigious intimacies which Some ladies
O
contract with gentlemen, wffio are quite strangers to their husbands. Her friends, lliould be mine; mine, her’s; — but no private assignations with my Lord, or the Colonel — but there is no danger of this with my Clara — She is all my Sond wishes can ask.” — ^‘the
4
graces all Smile in her Sace — and the virtues are lodged in her breast.”
F 4 Mrs.
ioif 1 ri Ih A u rs i ^
Mrs. Delmain Smiles to See us So
impalicnt; she knows what it is to
love, So need no explanation of our »•
sighs, but kindly promises to Set out for wood park on the first Summons; What can keep, pofiibly keep you in London r — It is a Shame (were there no other inducement) to lose So fine a
■N
Spring, — but your ab fence not only is a disadvantage to yourselves, but us.
— Lucy, when rambling among our
/
r
delightsul woods and lawns with Emma and me, admires the pros pects gilded with early Sunshine— — Springing flowers — the warbling birds, and all the returning beauties of nature, with as much rapture as our first parents beheld the morning
dawn — aster a night, they feared
s
would be eternal. — The Sweet girl looks amazed at the indifference with which we view the animated Scene, and generally concludes with — “\vell, is these are the effects of love, insenfi bility is Surely a blefiing.” — I then take up the cause and endeavour to convince her that at wood park we Shall have greatly the ad vantage, as every object will then appear with double charms, and that the joys of meeting pays the pangs of absence. — But yet, Beaumont, remind my Clara how long mine has been, and urge her not ta
delay the blisssul recompense. I ad ’
• ^
vise you, for you own Sake, to hasten
%
5 our
our departure. — Emma has made a conquest of one of our neighbours, — he follows her close; look to it, Beaumont, if you lose your mistress it IS your own Sault. — Adieu, Believe me
Ever yours, sincerely..
VILLERS,
0
4
r y
9
%
9
i
/
LET
/
%

LETTER XXXVIL
MISS CLARA WATSON
T O
9
MISS EMMA VILLERS.
St. james’s ilrcet,
I Have been too much, taken up
t
with poor julia’s affairs these ten days past, to write even to my dear Emmay and my heart is still so Sull of that unr fortunate girl, that I must first give you an account of our proceedings in
9
regard to her, besore I can enter on any other Subject. — I went the next day,
as I intended, and met Dr. H -- --
just coming outi stopped, and en
F .6 quired
quired his opinion of his patient, he fiiook his head — I hope. Sir, you apprehend no danger.” - — I am Sorry,, madam, I cannot encourage that hope,.
s
the young lady is in the last stage of a consumption, stie has been for Some time beyond the power of medicine; I however would have concealed this, and flattered her into Spirits, which stie Seemed greatly to need; — but She replied, with great composure, — I thank you. Sir, for your kindly meant deception, — but I know my cafe is desperate: : — wears no terrors for one who has long welcomed his approach as a deliverer from missor
• •
tunetell me then, added She,
Smiling;
Smiling through tears — tell me when this broken heart Shall cease to beat; — when all sorrows stiall repose in that asylum, where all will be Scrgotten.” —
I was afflicted (continued the Doctor) m See So young a lady So desirous of death; however, as stie So earnestly entreated me to be sincere, I told her,, that in a case like hers,, where nature was, exhausted, there was no certainty of the stiortest time. — She Seemed pleased with my srankness,, and not at all moved at Such a melancholy Sentenced’ — I desired the doctor, notwithstanding his hopelell ness of success, to visit and prescrrbe for " Miss Elcott, as 1 - could not got give
up
tio  .
up even the stightest: postibility of hi recovery — he promised he would om nothing for my satissaction, though was in vain. — He took his. leave — found poor Julia very tranquil — Mn benson was with her; She insorme me what the Doctor had Sard, an( proposed sending for her little gir immediately, least stie stiould be de prived the pleasure of once more Sold ing the little innocent in her arms. — I told her I had already Sent a messenger for her and the nurse, and ex pected they would arrive in the aster noon. — Oh, madam, you are, too, too good, ” and the tear of joy and gratitude stole down her cheek. — -
I was
I was opprefifed with thanks which were not my due,, and gave her to understand who in reality was her principal friend. — Ah, what obligations am I under to both you, madam, and Mr. Beaumont. — How litttle have I deserved the delicacy with which he consers his Savours.’^ — ‘‘ Oh, he is the best, the most generous of men, cried the gratesul Mrs. benson — what would have else become of me? a poor unfriended widow! — at my dear benson’s death, which happened about Sour years ago, while he was
abroad with Mr. Beaumont, I was lest destitute of Support, with a Son about sixteen years of. age, and two
little
till T’jtl Ji ivi A 1 uti JN AUNT,
little orphans of my dear daughter’s The handsome Salary my husband re ceived enabled us, with the little w had of our own, to live very com fortable, but when I received the me lancholly news, I Sunk under th bitterest affliction and distress— — only weep over my children, for whom as well as myself I was. unable to pro vide. In this dreadsul situation I con tinued almost a Sortnight without taking any step to extricate mysels fromth horrid prospect of poverty that awaitei me. — At the end of that time I re ■ ceived a letter of condolence Sron
Mr, Beaumont, who' had been pre • vented bya Sever from waiting besors
— •hi
 . iij
— He begged to be made acquainted with my affairs, and to know is it was
»
in his power to Serve me, asturing me
that he stiould take a pleasure in repay
/
to me Some of the obligations he owed his worthy tutor, — Enclosed was a note for fisty pounds; — overcome by his generosity, I hastened my warm acknowledgements, and laying open my Sull heart, begged his advice how to proceed to gain a decent Subsistence. * oh, ladies, what an answer did I receive! he told me to give myself no trouble about a Support, but leave that care to him, who would ever be my friend; inclosed was a bill double the value of the former,, to Sree me,
he
114  .
he Said, from any immediate difficulties, and a bond which entitled me to my hufband’s Sormer Salary during my lise. — I wmuld have declined Such large donations, as I only willed to be enabled to earn a frugal livelihood; but he would not be denied, * and as fured me of any Surther afiistanice I might want. — What could I want? — my utmost desires were gratified. — He has since procured a. eommiflion in the army for my fon, who, thank God, is a promising young man, and I hope will never Sorget what he owes to his benefactor. — My days now pass in peace and content — the only Sorrow I have since known is the death of
t
one
%
 .
i
one of my grandchildren— — this is a loss to which reason Soon reconciles us. — I have abundant reason to be thanksul, and I hope I am So, both to my heavenly and earthly benesac tor. — The good woman here closed her little tale, and called for our approbation of her hero, which we
%
readily bestowed— — then took Julia an airing, and returned home; in the afternoon the Servant I had Sent for
the child arrived alone, he told me, on
%
his inquiring for the nurse of Some people in the village, they informed him that a Sortnight besore Ihe left
f
her house, with the child, and had not returned since, and that nobody
knew
2 10 liijl ivialullijn aujnl, ’
knew where Ihe was. — I was vexed at this disappointment, which I knew the poor mother could So ill bear; —
r
and displeased with my melsenger, who, I thought, must have been very remiss in his inquiries to gain no more infight in the affair. Beaumont came in just aster — r i insormed him of the events of the day — he thought it best to inquire of Julia, who might perhaps be able to give us Some information that would astist our Search after the nurse. — He accordingly called on me the next morning, and attended me to chelsea, — The impatient mother met me on the stairs, and with a look of i nexprestible anxiety, inquired for
her
/
 . ny
her child. — Her eagerness disconcerted me; — I replied with Some hesitation, she was not come, and desiring her not to be alarmed, was proceeding, when
with a Srantic look'fhe exclaimed,
\
Oh, my child is dead” — and Sainted
in Mrs. benson’s arms; — it was with
(
some difficulty we recovered her — she then broke out in the most melting complaints; — “Oh, my hapless babe, but thy wretched mother Soon wdll Sollow thee — there wanted but this to render my misery complete — Great God teach me resignation;; — punishment is Severe, but Oh I dare not impeach thy jvistice.” It was Some time besore she was calm enough to
be
ii  .
be convinced her fears were ill Sounded; — her joy, at finding her infant still lived, made the uncertainty of where ihe was appear trifling. — She Said stie was too well acquainted with the nurse’s care and sondness to doubt her being sase., yet lamented that stie
9
Ihouid See her no more; — we en
i
deavoured to con Sole her, and desired her to try to recollect any place where it was probable the w’^oman might Jbe gone. — aster sometime, ihe said She remembered hearing her mention her having an old Sather, who
\
lived in a village about ten miles distant,
called C- -- the man’s
name She did not know. — I was considering

 . iig
jfidering of a proper person to Send on an affair that required Some address, when Mr. Beaumont Said, “Do ..not, madam, let this affair diltress you — I am a man of leisure, and will Set out tomorrow morning on this bufiness, which I dare Say I shall transact to your satissaction, ” — She was going to interrupt him. — No apologies, miss Elcott, I cannot be better employed than in bellowing pleasure on the unhappy — an indifferent person might not Succeed So well, ” — She
t
thanked him only with filent tears —
!
we Soon took our leave. I could not help, when we were alone, exprefiing my admiration of his conduct. — “I
am
ISO  ;
am happy, replied he, that my conduct, my amiable Clara, has your ap
%
— but I cannot think I have. done more than every man of honoui / and humanity would'on the lame occasion— — claim no merit, my heart would not Suffer me to act otherwise; — 1 know not how it is, continued he,
but do you not find Something in this
*
unhappy young woman’s missortunes peculiarly interesting — I astured him I did, and indeed I thought every one must; — her life, to be Sure, has been very unsortunate, her missortunes great; — but there is an indiscernible Something in her person and manner that makes one feel more for her than
we
 , izi
I
we Should for another in the Same circumstances.” — In this manner we conversed in our way home, — the next morning he Set out for Kent, and I went to Julia — I found her very low; the preceding days Shock had been too much for her. — I took her out, think ing the air might be of service, but
4
was obliged to return, as the gentlest motion of the carriage was more than She could support— — fainted on getting out. — Till then, notwithstanding Dr. h’s prediction, I had flat,, myself She would recover, but I now saw there was no hopes. — I wept to think how little service all the affection and pity I felt could be
vol. III G to
122  .
to her. — Mrs. benson told me, that since her Sright the day besore, She had had Several Sainting sits, and that llie expected Ihe would go off in one. — Julia, on her recovery, observed my tears sostened by them, her own stowed Sreely; — stie took my hand and pressed it to her lips. — “cease, dear madam, to afflict yoursels, cease to bestow on the Sallen, the guilty Julia, marks of a fr'iendstiip which would have done honour to her when innocent — perhaps have kept her So. — Oh, louisa, hadst thou postested Such a heart! r— — why do I reflect on thee, my own weakness is alone to blame; — the virtue that is unable to stand without
Support
 . 123
«.
Support from others deserves not virtue’s name.” — How, my dear Emma, did I wilh for you, with your sost per sualive accents to have Soothed the dying penitent, and filled her mind with peacesul Serenity; — I was unequal to the talk, yet I attempted it, and at last lest her rather more composed.
%
Beaumont called on me in the evening, his Search had been successsul — he Sound the child and nurse at her father’s, who, being very ill, file Set out to attend; — Ihe could not leave theol man, and yet could hardly bear to part with the little Julia; which,
G 2 however.
124 1 n Jim A1IJ Ji JN A U IN Ifi
however, stie was obliged to do, and got a woman to take charge of her to
London, where he had Seen, and Sent
%
a Servant to conduct them to Mrs,. benson’s. I was pleased at his intelligence, and we agreed to go next morning to See what effect her arrival had on our patient— — a Succestion of impertinent visitors, as is by combination, deprived me of an opportunity all day. — I could only Send, and
i
received an answer that Ihe lived, and that was all. The next morning, or
i
rather noon, I went, attended by Beaumont. — Julia was in a loose dillv abille, dozing in an easy chair; Mrs. benson, with the child in her
lap,
1 11 Ja ivl i 1 JL? rin A U IN 1. 12^
lap, Sat weeping by. I was too much affected at her deathlike appearance to Speak for Some minutes; I threw myfels in a chair, stie Soon waked, and replied to my inquiries with a voice hardly intelligible, then exerting all
her strength. She rose, took the child
$
from Mrs. benson, and besore I was aware, threw hersels on her knees besore me, holding up the Smiling innocent,, Such a Sweetly beseeching look, that penetrated my Soul. — To
i
you, best, most generous” — her accents died unfinished on her lips, and She Sunk at my Seet, I was but just able to Save the little Julia. Mrs; benson, and her maid, conveyed her
G 3 to
120 r II i? maijjrn AUNT.
to her chamber, and laid her on the bed. In a little time She opened her eyes, and looked round with earnestness— — read her meaning, and taking the dear little one from the maid, prefied her to my bosom in tender Silence. — A Smile diflirsed itsels over the Sond mother’s face — She gave me a look of gratesul satissaction; and lifting her languid eyes to Heaven,. closed them with a deep ligh for ever. Oh Emma, what an affecting Scene i — I Sainted away, and it was two or three days besore I recovered my Spirits. — — Beaumont conducted me home, and gave the necessary orders for her Suneral. I went the day besore
fore file was to be buried to have one look at the breathless clay, — Surely
t
death never appeared more pleasing;
I would have given a great deal to have her picture drawn as She lay. —
Mrs. benson told me, Mr. Beaumont
i
had a Sew hours besore been there with a gentleman, who She took to be Sir Charles Clairville. — I was Surprised at this, and longed to know the meaning of So strange a visit; in the evening Beaumont came; I alked him where he had been “Oh, not idle,
I asture you, I have been employed in the Service of your little charge; it occurred to me, that Sir Charles ought to make Some provision for his child,
G 4 I there
1^0 ± XX jims xfjl TX X jly XX jrx J X •
#
I theresore called on him, and Said I had an affair to communicate to him, in the presence of a person at chelsea,.
4
he readily agreed to attend me; — • when we came to Mr. benson s I conducted him to the. coffin,., and puffiing aside the lid. Said, — Behold, Sit Charles, to what you have reduced an amiable woman; who,, but for you, might have been virtuous, and happy, you first Seduced, and then, abandoned her.” — He started, — “ju lia Elcott!” — and striking his breast,, stood gazing oh her with looks of hor ror and despair. aster a while he broke silence— — Beaumont, t plead guilty, I am. the greatest villain
under
 . 129^
under Heaven!” — Then turning to the corpse, “Oh Julia, best beloved, most injured" girl, I have ruined thee and my own peace for ever, my re morse comes only to be my torment — it is too late for reparation.” — It is, Sir Charles, to this unhappy lady — but there is yet one way to atone in some degree for your crime.” — “Oh, same it, cried he, gladly would I Sacrifice my life.” — I would have led him downstairs, but he Seemed unwilling to quit the victim of his cruelty; he wanted to kiss her, wanted a lock of her hair, but I would not permit it,, and Sorced him dowm — I then presented him his little Julia,
G 5 and
130 irlri MAX jj'b JN A U JN 1
t
and alked him is his heart Selt any. interest there? He embraced her with tenderness, Ihe, pretty creature. Smiled in his Sace; — it melted him into tears. “Oh, Beaumont,, how you have tortured me!. — let me quit this place, I have Seen enough to embitter all my Suture lise.” — He then proposed, more than I expected, to Settle five thousand pounds on his daughter, to be put into my hands, as he did not ehuse to take the title of Sather, for her use, and to be paid on her marriage, or the age of twenty-one. I did not give him time to cool, but carried' him to a lawyer, who has put it out oshis power tore tract. — He acquainted me with the
whole
r
I
THE. MAIDEN AUNT. 131
T
whole affair, as much to her honour as his own Shame. She was, he Says, the only woman he ever loved; interest was his view in marrying miss Marfiiall, who he Says, is already become his torment.
I was pleased with beaumont’s prudent proceedings, and we agreed to leave Julia with Mrs. benson for the present — I at first proposed taking her to wood park; I can hardly part with the Sweet girl, the loveliest child, Emma, you ever Saw. — The poor mother was interred two nights ago. — Thus is that unhappy creature’s Jate decided, and reason declares for
G 6 the
jy'o IHE MAIDEN AU N T.
belt; a mind like julia’s could neyen have regained its once lost peace; infinite mercy,. I doubt noty will forgive a fault which She would never have
Sorgiven herselsthe Severe, the rigid:
% •
world too, would have still pointed the finger of Scorn, still viewed her with contemptuous pky; while her insamous betrayer is applauded as a; man of Spirit and gallantry— — partiality! — You will wonder,, my dear Emma, at my gravity, but these abominable customs are enough to'
I
make your giddy Clara moralise..
Beaumont tells me Edmund is beginning to be jealous of our long stay
z in
 . 153^,
• <
rn town, and has given him a hint of a rival,, so’ you may suppose he is in:
.a fine bustle; is he knew as much as ipe, he might make himself pretty'
I
easy,, might he not, Emma ?■ — However, as I want no inducement, fhalk Set out on Monday, my papa having very condescendingly lest the time to me; nothing, you may depend on it, but miss Elcott, Should have kept me'
Ib long from all I love.
Frank Beaumont was Saying the' other day, that he expected but a dull time of it, as’ he supposed his brother and Villers would engross you
V
and I entirely, — Oh, we have provided
134 thli MAIDEN aunt
vided a match for you, replied I, lest you stiould be troublesome” — he was very eager for the account of his part“ “miss Beville, replied I, with a grave Sace, is a good Sort of a girl,, — rather unsortunate, to be Sure, in' her person, but that, I hope, you will
not mind. — He looked rather simple
%

soit is plain he believes me, the deuce is in it is Lucy Sails aster this. — I shall insorm you of our arrival. Adieu..
CLARA WATSON.
t
LET.
thii; MAIDEN AUNT. 13$
a
LETTER XXXVIII
/•
MISS C L AR A W AT S O K
I
T O
MISS EMMA VILLERS.
wood park*.
Here, last night, did our whole cavalcade fasely arrive; a flaming appearance, I astlire you, we made on
0 ■
the road — two coaches full of ourselves— — and a post-chaise, of our female attendants, beside horse men in abundance.
wood park
irs  .
wood park is all alive; and when; you have completed the party, I
desy the world to produce Such ano
'. * •
there happy society only poor Letitia' is in a state of mortification — how comes that about? you Say — why you must know. She had conceived a violent aversion to be bride maid (which she suspected was designed) to two girls, considerably younger than herfels — theresore, determined; to disappoint them;, and,, by first assuming the title of my lady,, to make her ap. pearance with eclat among us mifies,. t — Her dangler,, Sir George, theresore, was pitched on; and,., to crown the whole,, she thought proper to elope,.
and':
I
and take the Sastiionable trip to Scotland, though ihe has been of age these six years; and has five thousand pounds at her own disposal, left by her grandfather,, whose estate your Henry is now pofifested of, and who also lest Frank teni thousand pounds — a good Sort of an old gentleman. However, the lady had like to have
made an ill use of her independence.
/
— The day. was fixed for their expedition on the Saturday besore we were to leave town; — unsortunately,. the Baronet had not the gift of Secrecy,, but boasted of his success. so Sreely, that Beaumont was, by a friend,. in formed of the Scheme at the very hour
iti
i A XA ivi X w X.
it was put in execution; and of Some
N
Other curious particulars. He accordingly Set out, attended by the gentleman; but as there was no stopping them on the road, stie being of age, they pustied Sorward, and at the first stage, appeared at the door of the carriage to hand the lady out; — you may luppose Letitia was chagrined at sight of her brother; however, Ihc determined to pursue her journey in spite of detection; — he addrested them both with politeness, Saying, his friend and him hearing of their journe}’’, had taken a ride tu breaksast with them — and leading his lister into a room — “You have no cause to be
alarmed.
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ^ ^
alarmed Letitia, if that gentleman is your choice, nobody can hinder you making him your husband; I only beg a quarter of an hours private conversation with you as a friend” — this was a request Ihe could not well refuse, though her lover greatly disapproved it. — He then ailced her is Ihe was fully apprised of her imprudence? if she had been deceived? or whether she thought proper to bestow her person and Sortune on an impostor, who had neither title nor estate, and who was in Sact, neither more nor less, than an Irish Sortune hunter. — • As 1 was not present, I cannot pretend to describe the lady’s consternation.
I,
tion. — Suffice it to say, that on her return to the company, Ihe told her Swain Ihe would return to London With her brother, and cut stiort his expostulations, by adding,, with an air of disdain, he might find in his own conduct, a reason for hers. — Mr. Beaumont then turning to hinr ^‘you must be Sensible,, how unlike a gentleman you have acted ill this affair, by endeavouring to impose on a young lady of Samily;. 1 am persectly well acquainted with your history, but as I wfifh this imprudent step to make as' little noise as polfible,. I am disposed, is you will,, quietly to retire,, and never, mention it;
to
thxl. maldjin AUNT i
f
to be equally silent, and leave you .at liberty, to Seek, in Some other adventure, a consolation for your dis appointment in this.” - — The poor Hibernian thought it better to take this advice, than be publicly exposed. — Beaumont, with Some difficulty, made up matters with Sir Harry and my Lady, who were at first greatly enraged — the poor disappointed belle, after Such a faux fas, was willing enough to quit London. — I really think this little humbling will make her better company.
We now expect you will Set out
(
immediately, on the receipt of this.
Poor
14^ THE maldiljn aunl.
Poor Beaumont is Sadly in the fidgets, about this new lover— — — delight in plaguing him. So encourage his doubts — though the deuce is in him is he has any in reality.
Frank absolutely expects to See a
little monster. 1 have got all the
Samily to astist me in deceiving him — how I shall enjoy his surprise — Lucy must appear more than mortal, aster Such an account. — I intended to have answered your letter, but this love affair has taken up So much time, and I must not miss the poll on any account. So shall only Say, I
m am glad to hear you are growing
Ih good
liib maljjr.in /iuinl.
good again; — and desire you to behave with composure wffien you meet your Swain — it will be giving him Sar too much consequence to be stuttered. — But you shall See an example in your
CLARA WATSON.
P. S. Love to Lucy, best respects to good Mrs. Delmain, and what you will to Edmund,
f
I Sorgot to tell you, I called on my friend, Mrs, benson, the day besore my departure, and left my Sweet little Julia well.'
LET
x44  ;
I
LETTER XXXIX
MISS EMMA VILLERS
T O
MISS CLARA W A r S O N.
» I
delmain hall
I Have but just received my dear clara’s last favour, and am commissioned to sit down and answer it, by af suring her that we propose ourselves the pleasure of joining the agreeable party at wood park, on wednesday next. And now let me thank you, my beloved
THE maidiijn auinl. 145
loved friend, for your two entertaining letters; both entertaining, though widely different: the first I perused with tears, the last with a Smile. — Yet neither my Sorrow nor my satissaction was unmixed; — my pity for miss el cott was divided with a pleasing approbation of my clara’s, and let me Say, my beaumont’s noble behaviour
r
on the moving occasion— — there be a more exquisite sensation than what we Seel, when those we love prove themselves worthy our regard? — It is a generous, a commendable pride; — but you willafk what there was in your
I
last that could in the Smallest degree communicate pain? -- -- -- Was it not
vol. III H lively?
14'd  .
lively? — Didst not contain the willed intelligence of your arrival in the country?? — my friend, but Miss beaumont’s adventure, notwithstanding my clara^’s gay way of treating it, is a serious affair — she deserves pity, though the mortification was owing to her own imprudence,; indeed the more on that account. — A mind like Lei

titia’s must feel severely for the dis grace she has Sustained, and these haughty spirits are apt to construe everything into reflections on their faults: I Shall think it necessary Co be particularly guarded in my behaviour to her, and advise you, my dear, to be the Same; even allowing she does
f
not
 . not merit so much confideradon, yet
V
great tenderness is due to her family, Whose delicacy must be sensibly affected by her imprudence; but, my Clara, if She allows her good nature to take its course, She will not need any other inducement to pity the humbled letitia
/
was diverted at your description of Lucy to young Beaumont, but the dear girl blushedu — How could Mils watson do So? — Perhaps” - —
“Perhaps what, my Lucy Why
/ n
may not Mr. Beaumont think this was concerted to make me appear better than I am — he may even ima
H 2 gine
X 0^ MM ^ MM M XJ.WJL1 X 0
•>
gine I have a * design on him — I shall
>. S
be absolutely astiamed.” — — “You
• ♦ * '
0
would have reason, my dear, had he
r •*
received a flattered portrait of you,
t
%
at present you have nothing to do but be quite ignorant of what has passed; is the deception Should be Satal to the young man’s heart, he
I
mull; blame Clara, unless you Should be inclined to make him reparation.” — dear Emma, how you talk, I have but a slight touch of love, yet quite
as much as I desire, but you Seem to
/
want to persuade me into a partiality
/
'for Mr. Beaumont besore I See him.
0
— I asture you I Shall be hard to
r
please, my acquaintance with brother

1 II Ei M A 1IJ L IN A U IN T 14(^
there will make the rest of the Sex appear to disadvantage; I much doubt whether your boasted Beaumont will equal him in my opinion. ed immd is much obliged to you, my dear; So is his sister— — do not want you to be in love with my Henry — admire you must, besore all men; — but I find you are Sora gentle Swain — well there are enough of ail Sorts.” — Not edmund’s nor henry’s, I believe, Emma.” — “Why, to be Sure, my dear, they are not quite So plenty; however, I hope, there is one in store
p
for my Lucy” — or none at all, replied stie.”
H 3 You
AA xmjt MX X JL x a MX w Jk #
You see, my. dear friend, though So near being with you, I Scribble the most trifling chit-chat rather than be
«
filent; there is a pleasure in conversing, even at this distance, that makes: me delay concluding, though I deser entering on any Subject of consequence till we meet
\
presented your respects to my aunt, and love to lucyand what
to me, ” Said Edmund; -- -- -- -- -- Why,
nothing — stie has given you all her affections already; gre you not content? —
*
Hs
9
He wanted you— — was forced to, give me the kiss, as you was out of reach. — Do not envy me, '" Clara. — r What a change you cry y — this girl is got out of the vapours, is quite
'I
liucy. Bear with me, Clara, I am at present in high Spirits,, you will Soon See me look simple enough. — Heigh, hoi — Be mercisul on that trying oq cafion, as you value the love and affection o
EMMA VILLERS,
I
»
P. S. I leave you to make the proper ceremonials to your Samily and fi'iends, except Beaumont. I darcr
H 4 not
/
1^2 I n XL II U IL U IN i •
4
not trust you with him, to whom I charge you with my compli
f
ments, without any additions of your
<
own,
4
9
%
I
\
V
LET
^ #
/

 . 153
letter XL
1
#
0
MISS LUCY BEVILLE
TO
✓
*>
MRS. BEVILLE.
<
'wood park. '
IX O W happy, my honoured, my
beloved mamma, how happy is your
Lucy, to have it in her power to, •
amuse agreeably. Some of those lonely hours you Suffer, to give her pleasure; and how much am I obliged to my
H 5 amiable
154 X njl ivx/il JL ISJN AUJN !•
h
amiable friend, for Surnistiing me with the only means of making my cor respondance entertaining. — Most willingly do I obey your commands, ta
a
continue my communications, and let you partake of the happiness, as I have of disquiets of our young party..
In pursuance of a letter from wood park, we Set out from delmain hall, a place which I Should have quitted with regret, had not the change been
4
neeestary to the happiness osmy friends.
5 — Our journey was pleasant, but not all our efforts could make Emma
N
chearsul; in vain Ihe tried to oblige vs, Ihe was absent and discomposed,
A Srequently
trlij maidejn AUNT. 155
Srequently finking into long fits of thoughtsulnefs.
Mr, Villers on the contrary. Seemed elevated out of himsels — he was all
f
lise and vivacity — Mrs. Delmain and I was only rationally happy.
'1
As we drew nearer our journey’s end,
Emma began to exert hersels, but at getting out of the carriage,, at the last stage, (about fisteen miles from wood park) Ihe started, and turning to me, whispered, “Dear Lucy, Beaumont is here — I Saw his Servant in the yard.” — So much the better replied I — compose yoursels my dear — I hurried
H 6, her
J —
/
her into the house— — Servant of the inn, together with the Sootman, whose
I
appearance had alarmed my friend, -
t
conducted us to a room, where Mr. Beaumont and miss watson waited our arrival.
4
'The latter Slew to miss’ Villers,
who also hastened to embrace her friend, but their meeting was intercepted by the impatient lovers — Mr. Villers catched his Clara in his arms, “my Edmund” ‘hny dear Clara ’’ — her head Sunk Sondly on his
Shoulder, as he strained her unreluc
0
tant to his bosom.
4
Mr. Beaumont
1 JT II M A 112 rh IN II U IN 1. 157
Mr. Beaumont had Seized the lovely hand of Emma, ' and prefiing it with rapture to his lips, was in a voice tuned to harmony and love, exprelt ing his delight, when observing Mr. Villers — “Who (cried he) can behold Such a charming example, without longing to Sollow it” — and strove to clasp my blustiing friend;, but, stic
0
lliuned his embrace, and with an abastied look, leading him to her aunt — give me leave, madam — this.
Sir, is Mrs. Delmain — this, miss Beville. — He paid his compliments to both, with a grace, and elegance that mocks description.
miss watson, led by Mr. Villers,
0
now also paid her respects to Mrs.
\
ip 1 JH 1!. ivl A I D H JN A U IN T.
Delmain, though in a hasty manner, ', and threw her arms round the neck
9
of her beloved friend; we retired to
• .»
another room, * to leave them more at liberty. — I believe they both wept — never Sure did joy exceed theirs.
They in a little time regained their composure, .and joined us; miss vvat fon was then all herseif, Ihe apolo
9
gized very genteely to Mrs. Delmain and me, for her unceremonious reception, and pleaded friendihip for her cxguse; Saying at the Same time,, so many obliging things, that had fhe been more remiss, we must have, forgot it.
She
1 M A 1 D r JN A U JN 1 • 15^
9
She IS the finest: woman I ever fawr
C \

$
and next to my Emma,, the most lovely,.
/
#
Mr. Villers will not allow that ex
• (
but Mr. beaumont’s eyes, > while they dwell delighted on. my blustiing friend, discover that all the beauties’ of the Sex, cannot equal’ those he then adores — they are dis serently charming; one commands ad miratmn, the other. Something more tender
/
as you wfill, I hope, my dear mamma. Soon be acquainted with our
4
aiiiiable Society, I shall riot attempt
to
160  .
I ^
to describe what I am So unequal to, especially, Mr. Beaumont.
I do not think any des riotion, can
\
do him justice; ever. the animated one I received from my friend, conveyed but a Sainr idea of the inimitable original; the 'gh I then thought it the flattered pertrfit of a lover; — to be Sure, he is the most accom plistjied of men; — Vvhat a happy couple; — Heaven formed them for each other.
%
But I Sorget, we are at the inn all
%
this time, and too happy to be very
9
converfible. — miss watson and Mr.
4
Beaumont
J. JLX JL XV rx X XA .Lu X lul
Beaumont not whihing So many wit nefifes to their happiness, had given the slip to their company, and came
t
in his phaeton on purpose to meet us - — This was very prudent, and considerate.
•* *
Mr. Villers resigned his place in the coach to Clara, and took part of his friends phaeton; they Seemed no less happy at this rencounter, than
i
the ladies. Indeed there Seems to be an equal regard Sublisting between them
4
— never, Sure, were Sour'people clo
* %
Ser united in the bands of amity. —
miss watson’s agreeable yivacit^^madc the remainder of our journey appear
very
102 X Jtl auivlr
very Short— — is of a most asia
*
engaging dispofitiom
I cannot pretend to describe our reception at wood park — ’twas a confusion of civilities, as must always be the ease in So large a company; — however, when.these ceremonies were adjusted, we Soon became acquainted
s
and Sociable, — Sir Harry and Lady Beaumont, particularly the former;.
appear very fond of my friend; —
/
but miss letitia’s politeness is evl
»
dently constrained,.
In about an hour after our arrl val, young Mr, Beaumont, and Mr.
Harley
 . 163
Harley came in, and were introduced to US' in form. — miss watson had made Mr. F. Beaumont believe I was remarkably ugly, and I suppose he thought me Something better than i had' been represented; for he was much consufed and whispered to Clara.. do nor like him much, he is too confident, and I think, a good deal of the coxcomb; he is, however, pro digiousiy civil to me; much more than I wilh — his gallantry is very difireffing, as I cannot approve it, and find it impostible to put a stop to it, without offending him, which J should be Sorry to do, as it would be disturbing the general peace of Qur Society.
i jll jji AVI .TX i
Mr. Harley, whom you have often heard miss Villers mention, is an exceeding amiable man, and I am glad to see
that her intended marriage, does not
0
give him pain; it would be a pity he stiould be unhappy; but he appears to partake of the Selicity of his friends, and I now believe it was in that light he regarded her.
I am called on, my dear mamma; so must put an end to this long, and I Sear you will think tedious epistle.
Let the will be excepted for the
deed; and belkve that to entertain
#
mjr
 . 16/
ny beloved miamma, is the highest imbition, of her dutisul
I
r
, * % •
J
And affectionate
LUCY BEVILLE,
*
(
9
0
\
LET
r
^ z
0
* X X AVA AAA a r AU AAA ^ AI A
4
. LETTER XLI
t
MISS LUCY BEVILLE,
T O
4
\
MRS. BEVILLE,
V
)
wood park.
'flj
JC OR which, dearest and most ho noured of parents, for which shall I most thank you? Your kind com
/
or equally kind admo* uitionsi
Let
THE MAIDEN AUN.D 167
Let me by a due attention to the litter deserve the former, and Show my gratitude in the most acceptable way, by endeavouring to increase that approbation that is so flattering to my heart, and which adds a relish to all my pleasures — everything here continues as agreeable as when I last
I
wrote, or rather more So, as the preparations for the joysul festival are
/
in great sorwardness.
»
f
Every one Seems to partake in the felicity of the lovers, particularly Mr Harley.
4
The old gentleman his father is ar
f
rived; he made a little bustle at first, but
s68 thji maidiln AUNT;
Mr. Beaumont foon got into his good
• ^
graces, and reconciled him to the disappointment of his hopes; since which he is become very Sond of me, makes me sit by him, ling' to him, and then
r
calls me a hundred Sond names — he is quite good-natured, though to be Sure rather unpolished
%
make little excursions every day — Mr. Beaumont drives Emma in his phaeton, Mr. Harley your Lucy in a windsor chair, Mr. Villars, Miss
t
>
watson, miss Beauniont, and Mr. F.
Beaumont on horseback — Sometimes
the elder party accompany us in their
*
coaches;
%
I
 . 169
coaches; in Short, all is mirth and Sef
tivity. — Mrs.delmain and Sir Harry arc
/
osten among us young folks, and partake of our amusements in preserence to the card table. — I stiould be too happy in the kindness with which every one distinguisties me, did not Mr. F. Beaumont perfist in his troublesome astiduities. He almost quarrelled with Mr. Harley last night because I gave him the preserence as a partner ill a little dance we had. — I have Spoke to miss Villers, who promises to get his brother to talk to him.
Emma is just come m, stiealks to Sec my letter, can I resuse? She read it
vol. III I with
170 I ti XL m II u XL IS u IN 1.
with a Smile, and now desires me to resign the pen m.willingly, my dear friend, ' on condition I See what you write.
. •: I
■ '
- f
K •
»
^ I
f
Miss
f
3*
The maiden a u n t. 171
MISS VILLERS IN CONTINUATION.
WHEN I have done, Lucy. — And now, my dear good Mrs. Beville, your Emma is going to tell a tale of this little insinuating Lucy. — Have I not a right, when she has exposed ail my follies to your inijpection? Surely I have! in the first place she has captivated young Mr, Beaumont to Such a degree, that he is absolutely out of his Sober senses, and not contented
with treating him with indifference,
#
nay, disdain, thinks it very hard, after confining him in her chains, to be obliged to hear them rattle. How uni
2 reasonable!
1 H h. M A 1 U E XV aunl,
reasonable! — but I have, notwithstanding all her deceit, Sound out the reason
/.
of her rigour to the poor young man;
— There is a Savoured lover in the
« «'
case, her sweet innocent artless persoii and manners, has stole the gentle heart of Harley, and taught him the difference betwixt love and friendihip, to his stghs Ihc listens with plcasure, wfith his request to walk, ride, dance, or stng, complies with a smile— — are always together; — yet, observe, my dear madam, Ihe would insinuate to you that their happiness arises from ours; but to all here it is obvious, that they have one source of it independent of all but themselves,
and
THE M AIDEN AUNT. 173
and though She Speaks of only two
f'
couple of lovers — Mr. Edward Harley, and miss Lucy Beville have long been under the Same denomination, — •
Everybody but the poor slighted Swain are pleased at this attachment, old Mr. Harley, in particular, is young again with joy, he dotes on Lucy, whom he already calls daughter —
but Says, Ned Seems to want no aflist* ance now, in the courting way. — He has already been talking of writing
t
to you, madam, on the affair, which
made me write more Sreely than I
« «
should perhaps otherwise ' have done,
\
as you must. So Soon, be made acquainted with it, nothing but modesty,,
I 3 I am
I am convinced, prevented lucy’s dif clofins it to her mamma, as it is an
^ O ^
alliance, which I hope, cannot be objected to; — but I know how painsul
V
it is to make these discoveries, So have saved the dear girl the trouble; her behaviour is delicate and prudent in the highest degree, though she cannot conceal from me her amiable partiality, a partiality of which Ihe need not be astiamed,
I have }ust now prevailed upon
Mr. Beaumont to talk to his
brother, who leaves us after he has
*
officiated as bride man — with the rest of the family — so that Lucy will not
long
.i. XX X W. J. •
9
long be troubled with his importunities. — Now, my dear Mrs. Beville, I resign the pen, after returning thanks for all your past kindness, and entreating a continuance of your friendihip
to your dutiful and obliged
.. ^
BMMA VILLERS;
- '
Thfere Lucy, read, and contradict me if you can.
V
w • - r. • m
. J
$
»
I 4 - MISS
%
n
MISS BEVILLE IN ccik^tinuation,.
»
k
FIE, Emma, you are quite a telltale, but I must not contradict you neither wfill I confirm your intellh gence, permit me, my dear mamma, to be filent till I See you, which will not be long first after the maptifil ccrc^ money — Mr., and Mrs. Beaumont, Miv and Mrs. Villers, Mrs. Delmain, .the two Mr. Harleys,, and your Lucy Set out for viller’s Abbey which is now
I
sitting up for our reception— — Shall my heart be laid open besore my
indulgent
cc.w
J. Jix AVJ. X n X 177
indulgent parent, whose will Shall regulate all its wishes.
In the mean time I hope you call' depend on my forming no engagement without the Sanction of your consent; — Mr,. Harley is indeed— — excuse me,. I will Say no more bn the Subject,.
I am very glad miss Beaumont and
r
her younger brother are not to be of our party — we Shall be all happiness, without alloy, : when we See you. I
every day find miss watson and Mr,
¥
Beaumont more agreeable; my Emma
X 5 and
and her brothert have long known — how fond are they of each other I and how is your Lucy honoured by being admitted (they all flatter me I am) to an equal Share of friendihip! they call us the double trio — Emma has told you who is joined with me.
, 'Will you not, my dear mamma, rejoice to See us? I know you will, agreeably as my time has pasted; I recollect how long I have been absent, and sigh lest you Should have been uneasy at it; I think of your lonely situation, and impatiently long
i.
10^
to return to the pleasing duties of a gratesul and affectionate daughter, as you will ever find your
LUCY BEVILLE.
9
f
4 •
✓
IS LET
/
XLIT..
t
MISS LUCY, beville;,
T O
‘!
>
MRS.. SEVILLE..
/
Wood Park.
SOUTHEAST ^
JL A M every day more' and more: :
f
convinced, rny dear and honoured madam, that there is no maxim whicht
\
r
we ought more to attend to in life, than that common one,. That nothing is certain here below.” — Who that had been; witness, as I So lately was to the meeting of the amiable
parties.
il W m9 m x s^'jk^
parties mentioned in' my last, without keeping this maxim in view,, eoulst have believed, that any obstacle could: h suddenly arise to prevent the completion of their mutual happiness. Yet Such is the fickleness of all human as lairs, and (as my dear mamma has’ Sten observed,). Such the Srail tenure, by which the most astured among us hold their felicity, that the Scene,, at least for the present,. isi ihisted, and the friends and lovers, are now actually separated,,.
acquaint you, madam, with the first' Source from whence this extraordinary circumstance has arisen,
a and
and to tell the story in regular order, I must begin by informing you of a circumstance which I omitted mentioning hitherto, because I considered it as a matter of no importance. It was only this; that the other day Mr. Francis Beaumont having paid me one of those visits of gallantry which I eoimplained of, accidentally dropped from his pocket as he pulled out his handkerchies, a note, without any signature, the purport of which was to invite him to an astignation, as I supposed, with a young lady at a particular hour; as the time was elapsed that day, I did not choose to let him’ know I had Sound his billet (which
indeed
*
had it not been already broken open, I Should never have had the curiosity to examine) and So without Showing it to anybody, I destroyed it, being persuaded, that old love letters, like old almanacs, being
out of date, there would be an end of
%
the matter
\
Beaumont, however, as it Seems, being of a very sorgetsul nature, having lost this billet,, mistook the hour of appointment; which wa intended, however, and understood by both parties that it was not for that day, but for the next, which was Friday;, and, as the constant day of the parties;

parties meeting, was not Specified in the paper. The consequence of this' forgetsulnest was likely to have proved Satal to the young gentleman; and, on. his visit to the writer of it, he unfortunately met with a brother of her’s,
I
a native of Ireland, wfith whom en countering, he was wounded,, and now lies dangerously ill at the house of one Mr. Frampton, a near friend of his,, with whom every one here is choir unacquainted.
You will easily imagine,., my dear mamma,, how much this missortune S Mr. Francis beaumont’s must affect his worthy brother; how imprudent
1 rl H. ivl f 11 LI i U IN i • Id 5
dent Soever he may be esteemed for having drawn it upon himsels, The particulars of the story I know not j but I know that all is consufion here; for w' ere Mr. Henry Beaumont never so presting to have his nuptials so^ lemnized with Emma, my Sentimental
V
friend would never consent to the celebration of them at Such a juncture.
And as to miss watson, She' and her
*
-
Edmund are both agreed never to be
united, till they can See their nearest
>
and dearest friends happy
In the mean time Mr. Harley, who seems quite wearied from his attachment to miss Villers, Seems particularly
astiduous.
i86  .
I
astiduous to please me, at the same time, to indicate that this attachment is of the most: friendly and disinterested nature, he is constant in his attendance at Mr. frampton’s, to inquire aster the health of young Mr, Beaumont, whom, notwithstanding
r
the apparent cause of his late misfor tune, he is still dispofed to confider as my lovers
/
* *
I do not Speak this out of vanity — I am convinced, that my dear mamma will not think that I do; but as I
confider her as the only guardian of
#
#
my virtue and my happiness, So it is above all things proper, that Ihe
stiould
JL XX XL lyx mx X XJ^ jlu jls Jtx ^ XN X 0 ^/
Should be acquainted with what happens to her daughter, efpeciall}^ when 'cmoved from under her eye and pro: ection. Once, and once only, have [ deviated from this rule of action : vith tears have I confelted the error, ivhicli never again, I trust, your Lucy [hall fall into. — No! let me rather; rr on the contrary extreme; my pa *ent will be indulgent toa foible, which irifes from a warm sense of my duty, ' m.d. my own conscious heart will approve a conduct which has its source in a rectitude of intention which I Pnall ever be most happy when I can
rescr to as the first principle of my
>
actions.
Mr:
i.
Mr. Henry Beaumont is just re
\
(as I suppose) from visiting his,, brother; and miss watson desires my company below. She knows not how I am engaged, or I believe stie would
I
not willingly disturb me. However,, as I have already written a long letter, which contains nothing agreeable to make amends for the tediousness of it, '
I stiall take this opportunity to goep' elude for the present, asturing my dear mamma, that I am, and ever will remain her dutisul
/
9 * ^
And astectionate
LUCY BEVILLE.
P. S.
 . isj
P. S. I am returned from attend
ig the Summons osmiss watson, and
\
ave just time to insorm you of what ives us all great concern, that Mr. lenry Beaumont is taken Suddenly) ill, that he has been Sorced to be onveyed to his chamber.
V
0
% «
LETI

*
1 il Jc4 jyi A i i; JL JN A u in 1.
letter XLIII
Ift
’V.
»
Mr. H A R L E Y,
T O
EDMUND VILLERS, ESCC
Wood Park.
Since your little excursion from Wood Park, my dear Sir, I am Sorry to inform you, that your worthy friend Mr. Beaumont, has been attacked with an illness which alarms every one here present, and which may be presumed to be owing partly to the delay of his own happiness with his intended bride,
and
 . igi
, nd partly to the dangerous situation a which his brother still languilhes, rho may probably still pay with his ise for his love of pleasure and in rigue.
You have heard, that to oblige diss Villers and Mr. Henry Beau
aont, I have interested mysels greatly
\
1 the recovery of this unsortunate oung man; since the illness of your riend, I have redoubled my astiduities, nd cannot but be under great coni

ern for his present unhappy condition.
Notwithstanding all his brother’s ove and mine, however, this young
gentleman
192 THE marden AUNT.
gentleman Seems rather Ihy gs oui services, and appears more dispofed to confide in Mr. Frampton thar in either of us: nor is either of us any more than yoursels acquainted with the particulars of the affair which he so unsortunately engaged in, when he received the wound which still threatens him with Such Satal consequences. — -
We know no more than that he sought, and Sora woman; the rest remains a Secret, locked up in his own breast, or communicated to Mr.
0
Frampton only.
It is not easy to conceive how much yoitt amiable sister is affected with
thesc
 . 193
%
fhefe events; I need not tell you, that I heartily Sympathise with her in
f *
Sorrows. -- -- Once lifer declared
lover, I am now her most firm friend, and stiall unalterably remain So whilst I have lise. — IS stie forbears writing to you at the present juncture, it is only because stie is unwilling to afstict you.
This best of listers Says, you have al
\
drank but too deeply of the cup of misfortune, and is studious by every means to avoid adding to your unhappiness. Forgive me. Sir, if, with less delicacy, I have taken the liberty
of a friend, to represent the situation of all here to you, at the Same time that, conscious of the Sortitude which vol. IIL K you
194 1 id r iviiiiujiin /iuini.
9
you postess, and which you have ex
%

hibited when labouring under the
greatest perplexities, I can have no doubt of the propriety of Such a conduct.
To Speak my Sentiments Sreely, I must consess I think your presence, if here, would be proper, in order to Support your sister, and to comfort your friend. I need not add, as an incentive, that it would certainly, at such a time, be most welcome to your Clara, though stie was not at first 'Without her reasons for advising your departure.
As
 . ig^
As I am too well acquainted with your sentiments. Sir, to suppose you can ever be offended at anything which arises from a good intention. So I trust I stiall not have any occasion to apologise for this intrusion, from one who will ever approve himsels
Your sincerest friend,
i E. H A R L E Y.
4
K 2 LET
190 I muiu in A U JN IT
*
LETTER XLIV
\
LORD LANDMORE
'T O
SIR GEORGE MELLISON.
Indeed, George, I cannot allow thee to be offended at the flight thou talked of. What is it thou wouldst be at? Have I not, by my contrivance, saved thee from want and insamy, raised thee to the dignity of a baronet, and, above all,
. Surnifhed
furnished thee with cash to Support that supposed dignity. IS thou hast not made a good use of all this, am I to blame.. What Surther canst thou expect But thou wast ever unreasonable— — hast let a good opportunity of realising thy Sortune escape
%
thee; and I dare be bound, that thy wit will never Surnisti thee with Such another.. Therefore,. George, not another shilling on. that account. — But, however, as b have Some employment for thee in an affair wherein thou may’st,,, is thou art caresul, do me Some real Service, I stiall be glad to see thee on Wednesday, wdien I will communicate matters freely to thee;
K 3 and
and is I find all can be brought to bear, I flail not value advancing thee a few hundreds. In. the mean time I remaiii
Thine,
ft
LA.NDMORE,.
P. S. Prithee inform me, if thou canst, whether Miss Beaumont. has yet got another humble Servant, as I hear Sir George Clairville is married..
1 *
* • »>
L E T
LETTER XLV
MISS CLARA WATSON
• /
TO
t
MR. EDWCVRD HARLEY.
t
Y^OUR deserting us is what, we
cannot take at all kind, Mr. Harley; nor are we at all inclined to admit of the excuse, wdiich we doubt not you wfiil make of Mr. Henry beaumont’s recovery, and of his brother’s being
K 4 cut
4
out of danger. — What in the name of
0
wonder!' Could none of us all have insormed Mr. Villers' of this,, without: your leaving Wood'ipark, and that
So abruptly Well,. I perceive yom are no Knight Errant,.. else “1 would.
a tale unfoldv and that too of a lady who is Sar gone ina passion for a certain gentleman, and “whispers to, ^
“the filent woods her talebut.
what of. that,,.
“The hills, the groves, the Hreams butdamon there Hie fe^ks in vain.” '
now 1 suppose you and my recreant Swain,, (for recreant 1 must calil him, ' since he is not yet returned) are.
quite,;
%
X XX Xa MX X jl j MX XX
quite happy together, laughing at the weakness of us poor, women, and con gratulating yourselves on your pene trationy which soresaw how all these things would end, though,. indeed,, they are not ended yet, as neither is in poitefiion of his dulciiiea; and is both of you do not make haste hither, i.stiall Say neither.deferves that hap, pinels.
Joking apart, ' Sir, ^ as ^ our' den

parture from hence was rather hasty, if you have, no private bufiness of your own, all here will be glad osi your return as Soon as polfible :. as to my own. true knight, is you will be
K 5, plcased
pleased only to communicate the contents of this letter, I think there is'
t
no doubt of his Spurring his courser hither with all polfible expedition, is he has not absolutely Sorgot his old acquaintance, and.
Sir,
Your humble Servant,
N
CLARA WATSON.
• ^
% ^
>
♦ •
LET;
\
X
LETTER XLVL
MISS LUC y BEVILLE,
TO"
MRS. BEVILLE.
How unhappil)^, my dear and honoured madam, is the maxim I men" " likes to be confirmed, to the cost and’ unhappiness' of' those whom I esteem most dear to me— — unlucky circumstance of young Mr. beaumont’s being wounded, in itself
I '- must consess, touched me no Sari
* ^
there
there than as it affected my huma- -- but the confequenbiaj^delay off Aefrf brother’s and Mr. nuptials, has produced consequences; which are likely to touch us all near, and seemed to have removed, far off, that happy day which once we all So eagerly wished to See; and is Some eclairciffement does not Soon take place, I greatly Sear our joy will be turned into mourning, and in particular my dear friend’s name will northeast
i
ver be erased from the book of mist fortune.
Not to keep you longer in suf pence, my dear madam, I will hasten
I to
to give you all the information I am. able; which, however, will be con -- cludedhn'a very, small compass, as even ^ I am not trusted by Emma with the Secret of. what occasions her un
4
eafiness.! — As to Mr. Beaumont, ia: strained complailance. is apparent in, his behaviour, that has entirely taken place of that ardour which So? lately filled his heart,. and was. visible in his countenance whenever he -- approached his mistress; neither does • her brother appear by any means to • be upon the same footing wdth Miss. Watson, as formerly he was; — the wedding is no more talked of, and even the sprightly Clara is on the
reserve
feserve to every one, and Sir Harry and his lady give evident tokens irf their looks, of chagrin, occasioned by disappointment. — Asto the cause of ail this, nothing as yet has transpired,
4
except that Some peculiar circumstances in the affairs of all parties,
JL ^
have rendered it necessary to deser the celebration of the intended dou
i
ble wedding, to which I even add, that these peculiar circumstances did not Seem to have any existence till after Mr. H. Beaumont had paid his brother a visit, to congratulate him on his recovery; — wffiat the Sormer could ■ have heard while he was absent, on that occasion, nobody knows;
but
but I cannot help saying, I do not like the attachment of the latter to this new acquaintance, this Frampton, whom he regards with Such an unaccountable partiality,
Mr. Harley is just returned hither, and is astiduous as ever in his com
\
to me, to which he adds a most engaging tenderness j as he has not however opened his lips on the Subject of love, though (vanity apart),
I must consess that I See little.reafon to doubt of his having conceived a partial esteem for me, which perhaps is as Sar as a person of his. Solid and
Serious turn, will permit a dispofition
which
-- -- - _ -- - - - - W -
which in others would be heightened ^
o
into the ardour of passion, to carry him.,
<
— But it was not my intention mentioning this gentleman to wander from. my Subject. — I meant to observe, that the unbounded confidence which he is, pleased to place: in me; encouraging;; me to express my thoughts upon the strange situation into which affairs are thrown at wood park 5 — he has been < lately a strict, though silent observer. itpon all that is pasting, and as he is by no means one that delights ini fatissying a vain curiosity, and is ac ■ to be of a most friendly disposition;; „ there'is no doubt, bqt r is any unhappy mistake has occasioned *

-- -- -- -- -- — -- -- -- —,.,
this extraordinary change at wood park, he will find means to be serviceable to all parties, and to bring about a general eclaircifiement.
I
Perhaps my dear mamma may think
I overrate the if not the w
«
of this gentieman, because he has not been much remarked for Shining talents by the world. — He is not indeed one of those brilliant geniuses, whose firinking characters appear at the first view; he is a man of much, thought, and' at the Same time, of a competent stiare of judgement; and one,, who, as he never Sorms any very extraordinary views. So he is almost certain'.
210 X XX Xu XYX IX X la XLI XN XX J XN X #
tain of bringing anything to bear, which he sets about in earnest
May not much dependance, my dear madam, be reasonably placed upon such a man. — I asture you, Lucy is most unhappy; unhappy till the mis tery of these matters is unravelled. — What then must be the situation of the parties themselves? I Seel for the gentle Emma, at the same time that. I cannot help resigning, and in my own mind almost upbraidin gher, that Ihe, my friend, my sister, as in effect I have esteemed her, stiould thus unkindly strive to hide her heart from
me, and enjoy, as in Solitude, thosc
..A ''
griefs
thli maidr n AUNT. 21^
griess which Lucy certainly had a right to stiare. — But what can I expect, her own aunt, the good, the prudent Mrs. Delmain, as Mr. Harley informs me, is ignorant of her Secret. — This gentleman being much esteemed by her, intended to avail himsels of that esteem, and to con sert measures with one, who wisties So w’^ell to our Emma, and to all her friends. — "Whatever may be the consequence of their joint endeavours, you may depend you stiall be particularry insormed of, by my honoured ma. dam, your most obedient.
And ever dutisub
w
LUCY BEVILLE.
jas ^ 44mm 1 mm mm mm r ^

\
LETTER XLVIL
MISS LU ctt SEVILLE,,
»
Tcr
MRS. B E V I L L E..
T
X HAVE as yet,., my dear mamma,, no better news to send you srom wood park. Sir Harry Beaumont, ^ and his lady, wffio have long beem highly distatisfied, went away this.
r
morn
 , aij
morning, and there is great reason to think Mr. Henry Beaumont will not remain here long; •* — for my own part, if things do not wear a better aspect, I shall entreat the Savour of being recalled, that I may forget the vexation this Scene has occasioned me,
in the arms of a Sond parent, who
*
has ever been most indulgent to her
child. — For who can' See without con
#
So many worthy people by inif take or design, detached in Such a man* ner, from the interests of each other, and at a time when those interests were on the point of being So dosely united for ever I
This
2l4 X rl IS, ivl Al JL II IN AUJN 1,
This very day Emma came into the parlour, where I was sitting, to look for a book which stie had lest behind her — at sight of me. She started, and would have immediately retired, but I went up to her, caught her by the hand, and alked in the most pathetic manner, whether the sight of • me was disagreeable, and whether stie was resolved to fly from her friend.
— That Ihe wistied to fly even from herfels, is polfible, was her answer.”
■ — My dear friend, (Said I) what gries is this wffiich preys upon your Spirits, I adjure you to tell me, and what is the cause of the strange Scene that is exhibited in this once happy
mansion.
mansion— — fiend, an enemy to peace, has forced the Seeds of distention in hearts that but a little while ago, glowed withal the ardours of
r
friendihip, and of love.”
Emma, aster looking stedsastly on me for Some time, replied, press me not, I beseech you, miss Beville, to unsold what were better hidden for ever — my griess at least are my own, and is you are my friend, why Should
• —
I burden you with them. — Be astli red I wisti you all happiness in, deed I wilh it to every one; — but I Sear I shall never taste of comsort more.” — So Saying, the tear standing
V
in
ikj X XX lu lyx rxx X / X j XU zx XN X; d
in her eye, ihe turned away, and departed, notwithstanding my earnest in treaties for her stay, and lest me involved more than ever, in a labyrinth of perplexities.
0
Indeed her last Tpeech was of Such 'u nature, as wounded me, while it contained a mystery which I could not fathom“ “Beville^ with an air osconstraint, and I was her friend; ’* what strange meaning could be couched under these words. — Surely I cannot
have offended the friend whom t
. »
I
would have died to Serve. — IS Mh Harley, and Mrs. Delmain, do not Succeed in their endeavours to unravel
these
X
i Jd xh ivl 1 JL CI IN U im X « 21 Jr
» «
hese intricacies; — your Lucy must ill remain in the dark, and indeed lay as well be absent from wood •ark, as present, being become So idifferent to her friends, and of So lit le consequence to everybody there— — the good lady just mentioned,
I
nust be an exception, as well as Mr. darley. — The former has Sent for me,
’ hastened to attend her, and there bre, my dear mamma will for the iresent excuse her ever obedient.
And dutisul
LUCY BEVILLE;
\
Yql. III L LET
>6*0 1. M.X JL J.TX ^ X JUT jltf XX w
#
f
LETTER XLVIII
SIR GEORGE MELLISON.
«
»
TO
%
LORD LANDMORE.
t
It is even So my Lord, as you Said; everything has Sallen out as you expected — the parties are all Sufficiently jealous of one another, and nothing
but vexation and heart burnings pre
\

049 09 0* ^ 10 A » ^ A ^ ^ mm w mm » m
vail at wood park, but though in
#
the contrivance of the plan, your merit is acknowledged, yet, I would remind you, that some praise is due to him who brought all this to bear; for wffiat is planning without acting?
> — The best Scheme in the world, as you well know, may easily be marred in the execution. — But in this matter. Surely I deserve the highest applause, as it is very evident, that I have done more for your lordfiiip’s advantage, than ever I did for my own.
V
You have warned me, my Lord, to beware of Clara watson — I asture
L z you,
^ -
you, you have overrated her policy and pnetration, at least, in the present case; for being involved in the difficulty hersels, the Serpent has lost her prudence and her fling also. — In effect all is sase, and all must conti
t
nue So, while Lucy Beville is jealous of Harley, and Emma of Lucy Beville, and while Villers and this Same Clara, whom you magnisy, are perpetually tormented with vain Sears and imaginations. — To keep up this general dissatissaction, be my care; — (the old Solks have already caught it, and Sir Harry and his Lady are retired) be it your part, my friend, to catch at this Savourable opportunity
TII E MAIDEN A U N T. 221
nity to renew your Suit to Emma, whose Sortune will be so convenient to repair the breaches in your estate.
I
— Should your application be rejected, you may find means a Second time to employ Source, and be better provided against the prevention, as your having any concern in the mast

querade Scheme, which miscarried, can be known to nobodyyou have not yet Sound it even to be suspected. — •
My mentioning this circumstance is indeed only repeating what you have already told me is your design— — I think it 'proper to acquaint you, that all things are now ripe for the putting
it in execution, and at the Same time,
- _ •
L 3 to
222  . -
to remind you that delays may be dangerous, as we are not certain that fortune may always be So Savourable to you, and it would be a confounded vexatious thing to lose So Sair an opportunity. — However, be it as it may, you may at any time command me, to the utmost of my abilities, and I hope you will ever believe me to be,,
your lordlhip’s most obedient Servant,
MELLISON.
t
P. S. Frampton has persormed his part So well with young Beaumont, that he deserves to be well rewarded. — After all, wfiat will his Lordstiip do with that young coxcomb? — I find he is not likely to Succeed in his affair with Lucy Beville.,
I 1111- M A 1 i; JN A U JN
I
LET E R XLIX
LORD LANDMOE.E
T O
SIR GEORGE MELLISON.
^ *#
LL is right, as thou fayest, George, and I am as ready to commend thee as to reward Frampton. — By this post I have Sent proposals to Mr. watson relative to his ward: and stiall once more appear before Emma,
L 4 is
324 A n XL ivl 1 JL Jtb IN Di J:.
it these are accepted; but Should they be rejected, I will have contrived the means to bear her off, in which Scheme thou, my friend, must be an astistant to me; I will then either Source her into a marriage, and make my own terms, or Send her back, as thou mayest guess, not in a very honourable plight, to her relations. So I would have both thee and Frampton be in readiness, as I know not how Soon I may call upon you. Farewell, Believe me
Ever thine,
L A N D M O R E.
P. s.
THE maiden aunl. 225
P. S. I have just received a cold complaisant letter from watson, in which he neither accepts, nor absolutely declines my proposal; excusing himsels by the consufion which he says reigns at present in his family, (good lack! had he not the wisdom to find out by my letter, though he knew not I had any hand in occasioning that consufion, that my application to him must be grounded on the knowledge that I had of it.) However, he promises me a positive answer,
when he shall have consulted
_ % •
one Mrs. Delmain, a maiden aunt of emma’s, without whose concurrence
he will do nothing in her affairs. --
So
22(> THE MAIDEN AUN.D
4
So I will wait a little while longer. — pry’thee, dost thou know'' anything of this Mrs. Delmain, George? Some
#
old cat or other, Isti be bound for in
^ /
IS ever thou prayest, let her be remembered in thy orisons,
1
X
‘ t
r
t
LET'
'- ./
n jci ^ ± JL .Lu,. L « 1. ♦ ^
0
LETTER L
LORD LANDMORE, ^
9
T O
SIR GEORGE MELLISON.
E F U S E D, absolutely rejected,, George, So now arise black vengeance I — I received thine, and am obliged to thee for the account thou hast given me of this new sound aunt. I am in a confounded hurry,. So can only tell thee to Sollow a plan, which I have here drawn out on paper.. Do
2, thou
2^2 O X XX XLI IVX jtal X JL j2d IN x LJ X 0
thou and Frampton conduct yourselves by this, and there is no doubt but we shall disappoint the vigilance of  . Remember next
%
Thursday is the day.
Thine in all haste,.
$
LANDMORE.
«
/
4
LET
\
LI
C
M R S. D E L M A I N,
T O
4
MR. HARLEY.
wood park.
I Approve, Sir, of the resolution
you have so properly taken, of absent.
I
ing yoursels Sora while from this Samily, as I am persuaded it will greatly conduce to the end we have in view,. which, is matters are as I suspect,
cannot
230  .
cannot but be prevented by your presence. It is too plain, that Mr. Beaumont entertains a jealousy of you, which I. thought had long been banished from his heart. It is really Surprising, that a man of his apparent noble dispofition, Should So readily give way to Such ungenerous sus -- picions; but there is no knowing the heart of another: Alas! Sir, the wisefi: of us can hardly Say, we know our own. — As to my Emma, her unhappiness Seems not only to proceed from the dispofition of beaumont’s r but also, if I can rightly fathom her heart, from Some strange notion of her own, which I cannot,, though I
claim
irlji maiubln aunl. 23.1
claim the double privilege of k relation and a friend, prevail upon her to disclose. I have, indeed,. cause to be ostended.;, She treats, me, I think, with as much reserve as she does miss Beville; and I do not chuse to press her with eagerness to unsold herself, till I stiall have Sound Some clue by which I may have a chance to be guided, irt tracing this labyrinth, which has hitherto So much perplexed us. -- -- Of
this, however, I do not defjdair, as my mind Suggests Some means which i think must naturally tend to a discovery of Sacts, unless the parties, by concealing their Sentiments, are absolutely bent on rendering themselves
unhappy..
232  .
\
unhappy. I am just now going to Seek out my niece, whose lover, I ' fancy, is preparing to leave us. His
4
departure must be prevented, and this talk I will take upon myfels, is I can but prevail on Emma to be in the least ingenuous with me. — In the mean time, I would have you endeavour to Sound Frampton, whom I cannot but suspect to have Some way or other ■ poisoned the mind of Mr. Beaumont, as his coolness towards my kinswoman, and indeed towards us all, has taken its rise from the time of his visiting his brother, while he lay ill at that framp ton’s houle. Frank Beaumont is a young man of a weak head, and as
easily
 . 353
easily led afira}’’, if I judge right, by bad advice, as he is by Solly and dissipation. What interest any one could have to instil Such bad advice, is indeed not So clear; but that is the question which remains to be determined.' — But here I must break off, or stiall lose the opportunity of Sending to you; So must conclude, desiring you will believe me to be.
Sir,
Your sincere friend,
And humble Servant,
r /
EMELIA DELMAIN.
, I
•
4
V
f •

; &34 ^ lyi 1 SN i U IN xi

LETTER LII
HENRY BEAUMONT, escl^
T O
✓
FRANCIS BEAUMONT, E S
'YOU R letter, my dear brother, prefilng my departure from this place, which has been the source'of all my unhappiness, came sase to hand; and you may be astured I need not Such strong instances from you, and from my parents for my return, since I can See nothing here but what must contribute daily to encrease my anxiety. —
You
 . 23$
You counsel well, dear brother — I will endeavour by all polfible means to drive thi s Syren from my thoughts (all lovely as She is) who has brought me So near my destruction. Yet oh 1 Frank, when I reflect on the happy hours. — Who would have thought deceit could have dwelled in Such a bosom;; the letter — That is too plain a proos. Why would you exact from me So Solemn a proniise, not to call that cool designing hypocrite, that disturber of my peace, Harley, to an account for this behaviour. An unl versal reserve reigns here; but I know
on what this is Sounded. — Should I
\
begin to open my heart, all would
instantly
2s6 the m aid e n a u n t.
instantly blaze out; tied, theresore, as I am by my promise, I cannot do better than to withdraw, and sorsvvear ing the salse Sex, leave Emma to enjoy her perfidy, and her Salfe lover his ill bought conquest in peace. Such peace as guilty minds can know, whilst I leave a deceitsul world, and Spend my days in retirement.
I must commend you, Frank, for quitting your pursuit of miss Beville. IS I am rendered So unhappy by one who prosested to love me, what must you be by one who affects to dispise you. — No documents, indeed, I think, need be given you in respect to the Sex,
young
L ±1 IL ivi VI jtl IN U IN 1. 537
young as you are, aster what you have been witness to,
* \
For my own part, as Mr. watson, who Seems ignorant of the reason of all this coolness, prested me to explain mysels, I promised to let him know my mind within a day or two,
V
in order, therefore to keep my word with him, I will leave him a written explanation of the whole matter, as Sar as I know of it,. which may Serve
9
Sora vindication of my conduct; this done, you may expect, dear Frank, to ' See the immediate return of
Your unhappy brother,
H. BEAUMONT.
LET.
V,. .w IR

LETTER LIII
MISS LUCY BEVILLE.
T o
MRS. BEVILL E,
wood park.
cjood heavens, my dear mamma,
where will this Scene of consufion end
/
is gone nobody knows whither. — Heaven is witness, my friend
has wronged me, by unworthy suspi
/
cions, yet still must I confider her as my friend, still do I Seel more than I can express for her unhappiness, and
tremble
litri ivlaluiiin aujnl, 239
«
tremble for the situation into which file has thrown hersels, by thus ab ruptly leaving wood park, unknown to her guardian. Where can the unhappy one have fled for Shelter, and how great must be that gries which could urge the pattern of prudence to Such a rash step. But what cannot be effected by hapless, hopeless love!
Yesterday I Saw Mrs. Delmain; that good lady had just received Some intelligence from Mr. Harley, by means of which she Said Ihe hoped to Set all mistakes to rights, and went in Search of her niece, of whom She
V
meant to ask Some questions, which, being resolved, might greatly con
^ ^ XYO. XJL .IL X W •
/
tribute to that desirable end; but what was her gries and Surprise, when stie found that Emma was gone, and had left a letter direct to her aunt, explaining her fuspicion of my conduct with regard to Mr. Beaumont, and a Short apology for having quitted a place where Ihe said she must ever be unhappy, and a promise that both her aunt and her guardian stiould stiortly hear from her again; and might depend in the mean time, that Ihe would take no steps which might lefifen her in their esteem. — The good lady,
, however, and Mti 'Watson are almost distracted: Mr. Beaumont affecting an indifference which, however, was
con
 . 241
constrained, said, that they need not make themselves uneasy, as nothing was more certain than that miss Vil, -' lers was with Mr. Harley.
Mrs. Delmain says, all these mistakes have been occasioned by Some plot or other, that Frampton and the youngest Beaumont are concerned in, though she by no means fupposes them to be the principals in it, considered, indeed as such, what could be the view of either of them, in thus perplexing So many worthy persons. — In the mean time Mr. watson him fels, as well as two of his Servants, are gone in quest of the unhappy Sugitive,
vol. III M taking
242  .
taking different roads, and this worthy
»
guardian will doubtless get intelligence of her, if she is to be found, and I hope still bring her back to happiness and peace, which will give the highest satisfaction to, my honoured madam, your ever dutiful,
LUCY BEVILLE.
#
* j
j
i
«.
V
L E T
%
MAIDEN AUNT. 243
LET TER LIV
EDMUND VILLERS, ESCL
9
T 0
MRS. DELMAIN.
«
However I fusticiently expressed my gratitude to my worthy and affectionate aunt, for the pains Ihe has
been at to bring all parties to an eclair
%
and once more to restore
I
tranquillity at wood park; but alas I what shall I Say of my lister’s ralliness, which cannot Sail to Srustrate her good intentions. — I am not now at a loss to conceive, that abating perhaps Some
x/r - : ____
344  .
imprudenciesosour own, weowe all this misunderstanding to Frarripton, whom I hesitate not to pronounce a villain, and with whom I will Speedily take Such measures, as Shall compel him to consess what motives have induced him thus to disturb the harmony of an unoffending family, I doubt not but he has Some employer, wstiom I will Source him to give up, and at the Same time, as I am, on my account, the
least involved of any one in this bufi
>
ness, I will be the first, by every Suitable acknowdedgment, to pave the way to a general reconciliation. But by heaven I thought I had the greatest reason to conclude miss Watson to be
3
 ,
\
a finished coquette, and my conclusion was drawn from what was thrown out by Mr. Francis Beaumont; but I will hasten to throw mysels at her Seet, as Soon as I have brought Frampton to a proper consefiion. And is ever all things are Set to right again, every One of us must own our obligations to Mrs. Delmain, in which acknow ledgment none stiall be more Sorward than, madam, your most obedient Servant,
EDMUND VILLERS.
(
P. S. I have just heard that my sister is with Mr. Harley. — I know not what to think of it. I am glad that she is sase; but this again staggers my weak resolution.
246  .
LETTER LV
MISS llicy BEVILLE
T O
MRS. BEVILLE.
O H, my dear honoured mamma, what a vile plot has here been discovered in part, the whole will doubtless Soon come to light, and those who have been concerned in it, will be held up as the. marks for public infamy. —
\
In my last I insormed you of, my amiable friend’s jealousy, and of her Sudden departure. — She had promised, however, to take no rash step, and she meant most strictly, to have adhered to her word — she directed her course
 . 2 47
towards the house of one Mrs, Ben son, who was the widow of Mr beaumont’s tutor, whose fidelity had been proved, and with whom Ihe meant to remain, till She heard what turn things,
t
would take at wood park; — but ihe had Scarcely Set out from hence, when she was Seized by two men, armed and
1
masqued, who hurried her into a post coach that drove off at Sull Speed, and as we have been insormed, stopped at a little house about ten miles from hence, on * the borders of a wood, into which they were just conveying her, when fiie Screamed So violently, as to alarm a gentleman and his Servant, who by chance were riding along the neighbouring road,
r
248  .
%
though it is not much frequented by
4
pastengers — these, in Short, stew to her relies, and rescued her, aster Some Show of resistance from her raviffers; the masks of one of the latter dropping off during the transaction, he was known to be a Servant of Lord landmore’s, the Same unworthy peer, who once before is supposed to have made an attempt of the like nature at a masquerade in London. — It was impostible for the rescuers to Secure those Sellows, they were too busily employed about their charge; but the circumstance is confirmed by the account of an offer which he made ta Mr. watson to marry Emma, which was rejected by the advice of Mrs,
V
Delmain, without her niece’s being ever made acquainted with it. — I fear this affair will cost my friend a fit of fickness, llie is at present confined to her room, and attended by an eminent physician— — is now Sensible ihe Says that this Landmore, whole dependant Frampton is, has been the author of all this mischeis, and indeed Mr. Harley and Mr. Villers, have discovered many circumstances which
tend to confirm this truth. — I am
\
much concerned for Emma, who has Sent for me, and entreated a pardon, which I easily granted for her inistaken Suspicions of me, but till Ihe grows better, I have Sorborne presting her to come to a farther explanation. — Mr.
M LI Beau
beaumont’s departure from hence has, however been prevented, and an invitation has been Sent to his father and
4
brother to return— —. we have again a prospect of Seeing our friends happy. — One of Lord landmore’s Servants has lest him — has just gone to Mr. Harley, and eonsested the whole of this insamous plot. — — A letter to miss Villers had been Sorged in this gentleman’s name, which was dropped in an antechamber, in Such a manner, as for Mr. H. Beaumont to pick it up, which naturally occasioned his jealousy, the consequence of which was, that when it was confirmed by his brother being bound by »
a promise never to reveal the Secret;
he
1
he stiewed his resentment only by indifference. -- -- In the mean time,
Frampton, who forged that letter. Sent
#
an anonimous one to miss Villers accusing miss Beville of Seducing her
lover’s affection from her, which was
\
the more readily credited on account oshis constrained indifference; — in the mean time, the Same parties, astisted by Sir George mellison, who was Sull of resentment at this disappointment in his marriage Scheme, corrupted miss wat fon’s maid, who was for ever filling her ears with unsavourable reports of Mr. Villers, who was represented to be a finistied rake, as his lister was a coquette. — Young Mr. Beaumont was led into those Schemes on plausible
M 6 pre
pretences by Frampton who had him taken care of at his house when he was wounded in the rencounter I mentioned, which it Seems was ©ccafioned by his attempting one evening, to Seduce a young lady that was to be
married to her lover the next morn
« *
who coming in by accident, re sented the injury
Thus all things are on the point of being Settled, is the Beaumonts will return, and Emma gets the better of her indispofition. The peace and friend stiip that will then be restored, will be a cordial to the heart, of my dear and honoured mamma, your ever dutisul,
LUCY SEVILLE.
«
LET
LETTER LVL
MISS LUCY BEVILLE,
T o
MRS. SEVILLE.
TT
jnow happy am I to inform you, my dear mamma, that my Sair friend is recovered, and all things are Settled atwoodpark. Sir Harry Beaumont, his lady and younger Son, are returned, the latter of whom has made a most fubmilfive apology for his errors, and as he meant no real evil has been for
«
given; my friend has Seen her lover at
her Sect, entreating her pardon, which
%
She has granted. She is more than ever united with me in the strictest ties of friendihip. — Mr. Villers and miss
watson,
Watson, between whom there call Scarcely be Said to have been an absolute breach, are reconciled, and everything promises a lasting peace, to Secure which, and to put it out of the power of Sortune again to Separate the lovers — on thursday next, they are to
be joined in hymen’s bands, and your
A
Lucy will be present at the ceremony. Mr. Harley would fain have had the double marriage converted into a treble one; but, notwithstanding I find you my dear parent to have no objection to him, yet intending to follow your counsel, I have prevailed with him to deser that ceremony for three
%
months longer, aster which period,, if we both continue of the same opinion;
3 yo'i
you will no more expect my dear and honoured madam, to hear from your dutiful daughter, under the name of
LUCY SEVILLE.
P. S. Lord Landmore who by no means relistied the treatment, with which he has been manaced on account of hi late villainous behaviour, has thought fit to elude vengeance by going upon his travels, and has decamped accordingly, taking miss beaumont’s quondam admirer, his parasite. Sir George mellison, with him
LET.
• .-4
LETTER LVII
9
MISS LUCY SEVILLE
T O
MRS. B E V t L L E.
wood park.
V ESTERDAY, my dear mamma, was the long wistied for day, that was to unite two of the most amiable pairs,
that ever entered into the nuptial state; '
%
may they, (as I doubt not but they will) ever celebrate this anniversary as the beginning of their felicity. — It was with great difficulty, the young people carried their point, to have the marriage private — emma’s heart
was
 . 257
was quite Set on it — and Mr. Beaumont, to oblige her, took great pains to bring over the rest; he at last, Succeeded, and in consequence of it, we pasted the day delightfully.
^ T
♦
miss watson with all her fine spi rits, did not behave hals So well, as our gentle Emma, who was charmingly composed; and was an excellent pattern for her friend, who was rather silly on the occasion— — dress was exactly alike; fine dresden mustins, white satin slippers, point linen, elegant morning caps, and chip hats. — miss Beaumont and I, were' Nearly attired in the Same manner. ■
Mr.
258  .
Mr. Harley and young Mr. Beaumont, were our partners — the cere money was performed in the Samily chapel, with great Solemnity — afterwards we all astisted in a concert; even your Lucy on Such an occasion, could not resuse her guitar and voice. miss watson and miss Beaumont relieved each other at the harpsichord, though the latter did
4
not by that means appear to advantage, as Clara is quite a proficient.
miss Villers, whose voice is, as Mr. Beaumont says, celestial harmony, Savoured us with Several Songs; I think is his love is capable of ad
 . 259
dition, it is when Ihe sings— — never saw a man so rapt in delighted attention; — miss Watson too, sung, and very finely; Mr. Harley on the german flute, Mr Villers on the violoncello, Mr. Beaumont on the organ, his brother on the violin, in Short, all bore a part— — dinner we went in coaches to an elegant banquet ting room, built on a Spot of Mr. watson’s estate, at Some distance, the most delicious little paradise nature ever Sormed, or imagination pictured : — I, and all who had not Seen it
4
before, were in raptures, and thought
A
ourselves transported to Some abode of the imrhortals.
I Should
a6o THE MAIDEN AUN.D
I stiould do the greatest injustice to the charming landscape, where all the beauties of nature are blended, were I to attempt a description; sus fice it to Say, it was worthy, even of the happy lovers, who honoured it by celebration of their bridal day,
besore tea, Mr. Beaumont, and Mr. Villers, entertained us with their
V '
adventures abroad, and the commencement of their friendihip; — but the latter cast a little gloom over our mirth, by a history of a young lady, on whose account, he received his late wound; — he observed the es sect it had on his audience, and would have deserred the conclusion, but Clara
 . 261
was not to be Satisfied, till Ihe had heard the whole, and Seen the picture of the Sair unfortunate, in whose name
4
he presented her and his lister with rings, and insormed them of her wilh to See them at her conyent.
An engagement was immediately
\
I. •
made, to make a tour to Paris — the melancholy that this little narrative excited, was Soon dissipated byhhe astidu ous endeavours of the gentlemen, who. Said it was profaning the day, to breath a sigh— — they contrived to fill agreeably every moment; — no Sooner was the tea equipage removed, but we were Surprised with music from an adjoining cottage, built for the con
Sbz THE MAIDEN AUN.D
\
venience of preparing entertainments, for company in the tea room.
Mr. Beaumont, and Mr.villers, took their brides by the hand, the rest followed their example, and we had an agreeable dance on a fine lawn, till Supper, which was Served up with the greatest elegance; — and it was late before we quitted a place, where the hours pasted so delightfully.
I have said nothing about Settlements; — we have hardly heard of them, everything has been conducted so quietly, and the generosity of all parties left no room for dispute.
Mrs. Delmain has made over to her nephew, a large estate, and he is
%
 . 263
to take the name of Delmain; — She has been equally generous to her niece, and is still immensely rich hersels — the jewels, deaths, c. cc. you will see and admire yourself, as well as the noble presents forced on your Lucy, who, in a fortnight will implore in person, the blessing of the best of mothers.
The neighbouring poor have received liberal donations, and thosc near viller’s abbey, will likewisc have reason to rejoice.
Mr. Beaumont intends getting a house near his brother-in-law, — these two families, with Mrs. Delmain, who they are equally Sond of, will.
264  .
I suppose be always together. — What a charming Society
I suppose my dear mamma has received a letter from Mr. Harley, neither I or his Son knew of it, till it was gone — hers a strange man, but means well —; he says his visit to the Abbey is entirely on your account. — I am un easy least my dear mamma Should be ofiended, or think dier Lucy forward, to quit her protection Sora hufband’s; — indeed Ihe is not — but I hope Soon to clear mysels of Such an imputation, and prove mysels as much as ever, your dutisul and affectionate
LUCY SEVILLE.
»
F INIS.
JL i A Mi

• • T' '
•' !•


i ria
MAIDEN
AUN"'
^ i
M ^

Mi

■: L ."VA
