' : f fij
ijs hbmbsh ym ®yj
CX murts
Cfnlrman ijassmfe
The G e nu ike §gjj
LETTERS
O F ‘
Ma RY Qjdeen of Scots,
T O .** *
James Earl of Both well:
Foupd in his secretary’s Closet aster his Decease; "‘and now in the postef fion of a Gentleman of O X f o r d.
Discovering the greatest and mod feeret
transactions of Her Time.
a ranflated from the French Originals,
By % D W A R D S IA M 0 N D S
I Late qfcbries church College, Oxfrd.
'Never before made public,
To which is added,
Remarks on each Letter, with an Abstract of her l1 FE.
In a Letter to jthe bookfeuer, fto\r\ an unknown Hand.
The S eco nf Edition, «
_______. V " ■ • -
WESTMINSTER V i
Printed hy A. Campbell, in Union street, near New paace tard1 for J. miuan in Shug lane, near the upper End of the Haymarket. Sold hy jf. Roberts in Warwick*lane; and the Bp'okfellers of London and Weftminjler, JMDCCXXVI.
^phce Open Shilling, j \
THE
PREFACE.
HEE History of Mary Cjueeri of Scots ■ ha made so great a Noise "ill the World, that 1 thought it would not be unweh eome, to communicate Ibnie Qri~ ptitil Letters Written with her own Hand f and which, either never came to the Perusal of thdfe who have written of her, or Were not thought proper to*be inserted, betaufe they seem to prove, a little mote plain than
A z the
IV F R E FA C E.
V,
the Papists wilh, her Conversation with the Earl of Bothwell; But I am of Opinion, that the former of these two Reasons is -- the right; and I doubt not but my Readers will be of the same, when I Shall inform them, that these Letters, being found after the Decease of the earl’s Secretary, by the Heir of the Estate, they have ever Since been pre serv’d in the Family, from Generation to Generation, till the Race being extimst, they fell into the Hands of a Gentleman who look’d on himself as less oblig’d to .conceal them. A Reverend
a1
Clergyman of the Church of England being, Some Time ago, about to publish the History of
this
PREFACE. A
1 ■ / o. i ‘ '.. S -- ia" " : \{?
this Queen, intended to insert these Letters: But having chang’d his Mind; through his Interest, H I obtain’d Copies of them: My Understanding in chara&ers, almost of all kinds, tho’ never So obsolete, made him think me a proper Person to render them intelligible; which, I hope, I have done to the Satisfaction of, as many as Shall peruse them.
E. Simmonds.
To the Bookseller.
sir, i
\ n
hearing you are about to puuifh the Letters of Mary Queen of Scots to Bothwell; and having an Opportunity, pome Lime ago, of perusing the Originals, to fatkfy the Cufiojity oj some Friends, I cou letted the enclosed Abstract of her Life, 'with some Remarks on each Letter, to vindicate her of several Afperflons falsely laid to her Charge by the Partial and Bribed Buchannan. By adding of them to the Let * ters, you 'will (no doubt) oblige mofi of your Readers, and in particular
Tour unknown Friend,
B, S.
Errata, Page to. Line 3. for Mirror, read Minion. P. 12. L 6. for Corcoin, read Lorrain, p.13. Dio. /orfatifieeb read falsified. *
, BOOKS sold by y. at his Shop
in Sbug lane, near the Golden Horde Shoe, by the upper end of the Haymarket;; the Bookseller next to the Horfe guard, Whitehall.
f In F O L I O
HART's Antiquities of Wejlntinjler Ally, 2 Vol. Fine Puts
Beaumond and Fletcher's Plays.
Architeltura Nova Curiosa. 2 Vols.
Buck's Bille. Ruled.
Bible, Queen Elizabeth. Large.
Bloom's Hifiory of the Bible. Cuts.
Burnet's History of his. own Time. clarendon Hifiory of the Rebellion.jj Vol. 1704, Baxter's Works. 4 Vol.
Bate's Works.
t Common Prayer. Black Letter.
Ditto. White letter.
Cassandra. A Romance.
Carryle on Job. 2 Vol.
Dry den's Plays. Vol, 1.
Dryden's Fables and Poems.
« — - Poems. Hevelii Opera. 3 Vols.
Davila's Civil Wars of France.
Echard's Hifiory of England. Vol. 1.
— - — Ecclefiafiical Hifiory.,
Bible. With Maps.
Heyleyn's Hifiory of the World. Be ft Edition. j70j Josephus. 1704*.
jkjnnet's Hifiory cf England. Vol. 2.
Leybourn's Survey.
Murray's Laws of Scotland.
Manton's Sermons. Vol. 3, 0 4,
Prior's Poems.
Parthe
Parthenijfa, A Romance. Pharamond Ditto.
Rye house Plot. _ C V
Stryp's Annals of the Reformation.
Taylor's Sermons. Hid Supplimetrt.
CL U A R T O.
Bible with Sturt's Cuts, and Maps, neatly Bound Dittoi With other Cuts, neatly Bound.
Ditto, With Maps, plain.
Ditto. Small,, without Maps.
Brown's Travels. Lithgow's Travels.
Palidio's Architecture•"
P C T A V O.
Art of making Glafl.. Attalantis. 4
Bhen's Plays'. -- -- -- Novels 2 Vols.
Clarendon's History. 6 vol Ben• Johnson's Plays. 6 vol Nelson's Feasts and Fasts
Whole Duty of Man.
Taylor's Holy Living and Dying.
Utopia. 2 ntf/r. Turkish Spy. 8 Vols. \
Spectators, 8 Vols Row's Lucan. 2 Vol.
Boeccatio's Novels. Collier's Antoninus•
Hypollitus, and Mackbeth King of Scotland
Oliver's Republican Scheme of Government, and several other Particulars never before published. Where may be had Variety of History, Husbandry, Trade, Voyages, Lives, Divinity, Physic, Mathematics,. Dictionaries, Clajpcks, Plays, Romances, Poetry, c,
*fuflpublifh'd, The present State of Poetry, a Satire. 1
Addref'd to a Friend, and dedicated to Mr.
Wei fed. ■ Also
Necessary Observations on the Ad for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors: Proving the said Act to be of great Use to Creditors as well as to Debtors,
By Roderick Mackenzie, Sen. Quondam A J,
Sold by the Hove Jr Mill asst
r 'AO:; TETTER Tn's;
this first Letter, ad appears ly Brantomeh Me moirsy map be written when the Earl of both well was in Banifimentf, where he had been sometime, on an Informatim given ly the Lord Arrau, Thttf'he htfdcfflfpipiagaitofi thelife If M urray i * Befidesj the Complaint fie makes in it how impoffille it idi for her to a ad fie wquiddo^
; having her Power limited Iy two different Fait ions, per fitly agreet^witf; Spodwood, Sir James Melville, and alhiofi all the Authors who have written the Hrftories of those Times y the later of them very confidently affirming, that fie i had neper consented to marry with Lord Darly, lut that fie hoped, ly that Means, to fupprefi the, Incroachments which the two Parties, headed ly Hamilton and Murray, were daily making on her Prerogative
HI Old complain of me my deac bothwcu, pjit\\qxxl Cause: Did + you know what unfurmounta^ _________ ble Difficulties attend a peripij
; of my) Station, in the Pursuit of an af&ir,; Inch as ours, you would not blarney but pity me: : All my Moments Sh B are
2 If
ar taken up with Confutations — -- ^- — the Distractionof the Times overwhelm me — •
1 ought to exchange this Soft and gentle Nature of mine, for one all rough and masculine, to be able to cope with the §3 Oppositions I daily meet with; besides;;
Lord Darlj is perpetually with me, pretends to testify his Passion by his jea loufy; and, back’d by that assuming ar bitratrefs of my Fate, the Bwglijh Queen already takes upon him the Authority of a Husband — — What can 1 do? torn and divided between different Factions, both equally pernicious to their sovereign’s Interest— — -- in Spite of the contending * Storms, in Spite of Business, Cares, and all my vast Fatigues, still does my Heart find Room for Love : — — Yes, I protest my ever dear botb weuy that, for an humble Life with you, I gladly wou’d exchange this Load of Greatness, and throw it to those who Seem so ambitious of it, this gawdy Burden of a Crown :
But even That is a Privilege deny’d me;
I must either continue to reign, or cease so live; my Power is all that can protect my Bothwell; fhou’d I relinquish you, or Want thfe; Meajni$ of proferying you? it is
'“7 i ■ not
j
not the pretended Friendship of the ever changing Murray wou’d afford yon any Shelter : Do not therefore impute it to my Want of Impatience to see youy that > I still delay your coming to Edinburgh, th for the future Repose of us both, that I command you to tarry yet a little longer where you are: But methinksl need not any Arguments to convince you, that it is wholly your Interest Tstudy $ too precious have been' the Proofs I have given you of my Tenderness for you, to doubt the Sincerity of it; nor do I believe you want Sense or Gratitude to acknowledge what I have done for you — — — Time, however, must be the Touch stone of the Hearts of both -- -- -- -- write to me as
usual: Believe me, all the Consolation' ' unhappy Queen enjoys, is in hearing from you, till Fkte allows us the Blessing of a nearer Conversation, which I hope and pray may be Sooner than you s expect, and as Swift as my pelires. -- -- -- -
A Legion of Angels attend and be yout Guard from all exterior Harms, and keep ^ you ever faxthfal to
: B 3 T. S.

I had forgot to warn you of Lord her j rif, he.designs you a; Vifitit can be for no other Reafpn than to pry into your behaviour y -- r -- be.canticmj3 of. your self,, before him. Parnell. 4.
vft %rii jt - /' vi j stou OI j's'f A CN
LET t; E; E... ilcf’
4fhis seems ito hie written afmalutme after: the i Dormer ‘ ty?td bother Ftcgwfyg to \ Bstdiannaix, .ypfi hem Date al out the Middle of the Tear 156^. She was at tdajf 'Time greatly incom y; mbded.iyfhe Dafffoh ofthedikmi\io\is \ land wi h > tfoew 'fogtiming ko contrive Metiftires for their; i; rtikhw £*&\£nvn'd.metfrtirl, Spots
jg d,; Lnwwfgrd., r?l. C
"1" T is ^dth, f .Dfanfport proportionable
niy.jate Exquietitudes^ that now r |: q^^ud;; ihe: Prelence. of my dear both gr^fest Part of my Anxieties * ate oypr | ^m%4be$h has chang’d her Mind V in Fayour o my Lord Darly^ and I Shall be persecuted no more with her Menaces;., or Perihafions on his Score; Murray also declares himself an Enemy to t he Match,
• y..
 £
and I Shall have the double Satisfaction of obliging my Subjects and my self— — — oh! there.remains a greater Felicity in Store for me, I Shall not only: be eas’d; of if the Solicitations of the Man I hate, but enjoy with more Security than ever,, the Society of him 1 love. - — -- The council teem perfectly satisfy’d of your Innocence as to the late Troubles; you will havfe a public Mandate to recall you | but I cans not restrain my Impatience; from sending you this Harbinger of our appioachfirtg Happiness - — Secret, however, I opiir jure you, a too quick Discovery of your r Contentment yet, might ruin all, : — t -- Always remember this, That the Favourites" of Princes, have as; many Observers,, Eyes upon them, — I learn’d this Maxim fibom Katberim de Medicis, to wear a Countenance the reverse of my Heart— — frequently are made for no other Reason, than to found the Inclinations of the Persons to whonj they are offer’d; that politic Queen therefore qever.dif clpfes either the Pleasure or Discontent She conceives, at what me hears y but, leaving it to Time to bring out thereality, fathoms the Whole of the Design'
'
 \
without giving even thole who thin themselves in the very Bottom of her Secrets, Liberty to know the least of her Thoughts; it is also by this Means that Elizabeth circumvents all the Plots of her jk Enemies: And this, in fine, is the only Security of a Great and envy’d Perfori. — Dissemble, therefore, my dear bothwem with all the World but me, who, I do believe, will be most pleas’d when most I know your Heart; — lee the Confidence which Love inspires, jealousy and Suspicion are Passions I am utterly a Stranger to; but in the Affairs of State, I contest I have Vanity enough to affure my self, that the Man I condescend to favour in the Manner I have done you, cannot but be mine; — as for the Divorce you writ to me concerning, I wou’d not have you think of it as jet; the Times are at present too mudi unsettled, and your Wife has powerful Friends; strengthen first your own Interest, which may be a Means to weaken hers; and leave to me and your •good Friend the Biflhop of Ross, to manage That thereafter; we have already laid the Scheme, and I am certain that
worthy Mari will not fail to perform the $iiq OH // j Part
^ kv. pg ri; ■■; - - IA 'A ' ' jl fir - ‘ ‘
 y
Part enjoyn’d him, to the Satisfaction of us both; in the mean time, wou’d not have you give the least Hint of your de iign : But of this we Shall have Leisure to t talk at your Arrival. f I haye these three Days waited an Opportunity to convey to you the tender Meanings of my Soul, and must not waste the precious Moment in dull Narrations. — — No Time is pleasing to me, that is not Spent in giving you new Demonstrations of mv Affection: well may I err in the Rules of Government and State, when all my Thoughts are taken up with Love; and yet perhaps I * shou’d be less ’capable than I apstj if, my Concern. for the Establishment of your Happiness did not make me now and then apply myself to those Maxims, which alone can have the Power to fix it, — the Ambition I have to make you Great, keeps alive my Desire of continuing so myself — the Setter, I am very certain, wou’d soon grow too unwieldy for the Weakness of A my Hand, were it not for the charming Hope I shou’d Shortly have; the Means to s transfer it into yours j ftis there I wish to see it Shine, and look oh my self but as the Steward of the glorious Relict, -^ —
; ia " - ' I
§
I do believe, however, that there are Joys to my pcavef to bestow, infinitely more valuable tto ymi that! this y but I think not my Heart and Petfon sufficient1 re wstj&t to the Merits of my Bothwell and long for the happy Hour when I may give & Kingdom In Dowry with my Love, till them! can^tdky my Joy imperfectly com pmr, * inbr'wiip f ever rest till this, the ftipjea.rc^s.i]tesfte my Soul Can know, is feomplisti’d — — 1 am slow going tocoun wbe^^lhave order’d' 'it lby that the Earl of Hamilton, ' whom I know your Enemy, Jffiall be accus’d of Things which foie a time,! atjteast, Shall deprive him of f the powerbf‘giving any Interruption to fim^happineik I pfopoie td my lel£>cm theli Enjoyment of my.dd£af mt&hwemh
■1 ©xpect to a few Elays to be calfd to Court, 1 and to the impatient Arms of
, poolfatoow. MIR. j
Pggg| i Letter, j
. L. : t V
 1 p
si, V s ■ /
L L E TTER III
This Letter was written in the Beginning pf the, Tear 1564, at which Time Queen Elizabeth proposed the Earl of Leicester to her for a iluf3 hand, according to Cambden* Holingfhed,, and almofi all the Hifiorians, who mention. that Af. j fair with Wonder 5 the greatest Politicians of that Age dot being alte to fathom the secret Motives which induced her to so Unexpected a Behaviour.
hhat a Sudden Tiirrl iri out Affairs!
— ^ good Go d! how are the. Face of all Things alter’d1 -- -- - Scarce have;
I Courage to report the Story) but you, alas L are but too well acquainted with the Misfortune in general tho’ the Particulars cannot yet have reach’d you. — — i I am for ever doom’d to be the Vassal of the engujh Queen, the Tool of her curs’d V Policy, the Property of her Ambition, without a Friend to aid me f -- -- -- She
Writes me nowy That her Reasons for i breaking off the Match with Darly^ were because She thinks Lekefter more worthy;
C f
10
of my Crown and Bed. — leiceflerrtais’d I' bpt by her partial Favour, and long the Mirror of her loolest Wishes, must now be recompens’d with thz &coufh Crown,
- — but it Shall perish first, -- - though Mur _ and the Faction again threaten to take 2 up Arms, tho’ the Remainder of the Gordon Race rejoice in this Opportunity of Revenge, not all I have endur’d, nor all I can endure Shall fright me to an Act So loath’d, lb fcorn’d — — no, if not decreed for bothwejly 1 will be for no other; - — in this I will be Mistress of myself, as for the rest let Fate difpole; 1 am grown weary of the Light, and almost cou’d .resign that Life they make so wretched, by % perpetual Troubles. — — Attempt not to appear in Edinburgh I entreat you, where all Things being in Confusion, in this universal Hurry, you may fall a Victim to the Malice of your Enemies; I am, .now more than ever concern’d, that Murray, fearful of your betraying thole i'e cret Practises he formerly intruded to 1 your Care, privately conspires against.
your Lite -- -- -- - Hamilton gave me some
Hints of it the other Day, and ‘douglafs (
j afterwards, in Heat of Blood, pccahon’d
jv. : II '. by
1  I i
by a Debate between ’em in my Presence, confirm’d it all; all are false, all Traitors
to their Queen. -- -- Oh Botbwett! where
Nr is one faithful Friend to be chose out a n mong a Thousand bale Designers— — aim not at Increase of Power, oppress not my poor Subjects by exorbitant Taxations; nor envy the Provinces my Neighbours rule; all I desire is to possess, in Peace, the little Territories Twas born to govern, and that is deny’d me — -- Sure I was born to everlasting Cares — — like Hydra s Heads, one no Sooner disappears ^ than another riles in its Room, and drives j me from Repose— — am in too much Distraction to lay much at present, but the Person who brings you this has a com misfion to inform you all the Circumstances of this unexpected Blow; I can B only tell you, that L am, as ever, wholly devoted to the Interest of my dear Bothwell; and will yet, Some Way or other, s complete his Happiness, or fink in the Attempt— — you have any Advice which may be of Service in this Exigence, let > it be lpeedy; for never had I more pf Consolation. Tours, M K.
j i
§ 9. S, '
Direct as your last, under a Cover to the Vunfio, that Man I think is faithful hut bewar of Seaton, he has a Brother in i the Service of the Hamiltons * I more than fear he has already betray’d Some Things to your Prejudice— — Uncle of Corcom (contributes to my Persecution, by pro poling an: Allyance with the Houle of Austria: The Bearer will inform you at full the Contents of this Letter — — farewell, pity me, and continue to love me,
A ^ | : ® y; *
vr* cr* j Sp c tr* cr* JCR trf ra crs i crt T cri j lt (/»
Letter IV,
Contents of this Epistle makes it evident to le - written immediately after her Marriage with Lord Darly; and not only Melville, hut several * other Historians also report, that the Earl Both, yell was/recalpd to Court about that Time; the g Reasons fie gives for her Consent to the Mar( (
Artage are such "as, whoever reads any of th Treaties of her Life, will both natural and reafoname j all the Writers concurring in this,
W! % that
jgmjfe Sk -- 4L
15
that if he had continued finglej the Parties of Hamilton and Murray would in a (hart Tim have left her nothing hut the, Name of Queen,,
as your Reproaches re, 1 pat don them; but oh f too little iem Able of the Pangs I feel, you ought * rather to have apply’d Balsams than Gorri
. fives to Wounds like mine: -- -- Tis true,
I am married, and have given my fess to another, and in that Act have fatisfy’d the oft repeated Promises I made, you : But were Self-interest forgot, and impartial Justice had Liberty to Speak, you wou’d with the softest Compassion reflect on the lad Necessity which forc’d me to
it -- -- France, Spain, England and Rorne
were providing me Husbands y Murray was depriving me of everything but the Name of Queen; how but by Marriage, cou’d I put a Stop to the Solicitations of the one Side, or have curb’d thfc Infolenceof the Other? Well you know it was not in my Power to make Choice of you, without I cou’d have been com tent not only to see my Crown torn froxft me, but alio resign both our Lives to glut the implacable Malice of our Foes— — % tell me the Lord Parley is handfcme* I and
14
and well made; ungenerous bothwell! well are you convinc’d I have no Eyes for any Charms but yours; what induc’d me to make Choice of him rather than any other, was, because I wou’d avoid giving any Umbrage to the contending Princes, whose equal Pretensions might have ex^ pected equal Favour; but in this Marriage, which in the world’s Eye will Seem wholly induc’d by Inclination, neither Rome, nor France, nor Sjiam can be difo blig?d: Nor can Elizabeth, with any Show of jusiice, blame me, because it was on. her Recommendation I first contented to listen to his Suit; and in preferring him to Leicester, I cannot but have the Approbation of the whole judging World. -- --
Think not that it is Love which furnishes me with Arguments to justify my Choice for I protest by the same dread Power, by which 1 have So often Swore, that both well was the dearest Thing on Earth, that he is still, and ever will be lb, while I have Life \ and Darly but the Property of
my Revenge on Murray. -- -- Oh, Bothwell!
did you but know with what un paralell’d Tyranny I was treated by that burning Tray tor, you wou’d not wonder
fe : ' ■' r
I $
I had Recourse, for Shelter, to this Expedient;
-- the haughty Arrogance of
both him and Hamilton are now reduc’d to low Submissions; and tho’ they murmur, dare not complain.depend on this Truth, That nothing less than what I have done, cou’d have secur’d the Life of boihwell: The cruel and designing Murray had inevitably made you the Sacrifice of his Ambition; and I think it needless to say that Motive was Sufficient, and perhaps the most weighty of any, to influence me to this Action; that by making my Person the Victim of one, I might preserve the dearer Part of me from falling one to the other more destructive
Passion- -- : first Step I took, was to
inipire the new made King with Notions to your Advantage, — — By the Time this; reaches you, you will receive an Order to return to Court, where you will be encourag’d and promoted: — — I Shall See you, my dear Bothwellj tho’ not as I cou’d V wish;; I Shall lee you in Safety, and while Heaven permits that Blessing to me,. 1 never can be truly npdfciahle.
> V V \ 1: m MI R,
lis Letter
'v.. /; ' „,
16
p ‘t*it* ‘I? $ ^ ^ 4* $ 'f •&**1? 4* $ & *1? ^ 't rt *
V
M
There Can he no Certainty of the Date of thisj any further than that it was writ presently after the Arrival of jbothwell; they having never, as the Contents exprejfes, seen each other in Privatet till this Billet appointed the Place of ajfignation :
The Lady Lacy, at whose Houfre it was they mety was a nearlielation to the Ear Vs Mother, and entirely in his Interefiyas appears not only y the
. Trufl which the qfeen reposed in hers hit also ly her ajjifiing him with a large Sum of Moneys when, before his Favour with the Court party, his Extravagancies had reduced him to great j Straits. This from Cauffin, who, to render it improballe that the Queen jhou'd love him, frpedks of his P erf on and Behaviour with the utmost Contempt, calling him a Man of adefpetate Fortune.) and capable of the mojl mean and vile Actions
8, f
Believe you are now perfectly convinc’d that there was an absolute Necessity for my Marriage, tho’ the Regret / with which you behold me in another’s Arms will not permit you to acknowledge it— — lost nothing of the few ( kwords you Spoke to me as you left • C .•;. the
1*7
the Drawing-room; I have provided to gratify the Impatience they expressed for a Renewal of. thole Joys we have been so ** long depriv’d of: - — The lady Lacy L who is in the Secret of my Heart, pretends an Indisposition, a Visit from me wiil not be wondefctat, because the whole Court knows how much She is in my Ea.. I will be at her Apartment tomorrow about Seven in the Evening, but wou’d have you prevent that Hour, lest any of the Pages, or Maids of Honour, who attend me, shou’d take Notice of your being there — — Tis ealy for you to / go incognito y I wi(h to Heaven it were no greater Difficulty for me — our Interviews wou’d then be more frequent, and Love abundantly make up for Want of Grandeurbut I (hall defer giving you any Testimonies of the Transport which the Expectation of feeing you affords, till I am so blessed in Reality. — - Adieu, my w dear, dear Bothwell. I have Time to add no more, than that 1 am, and ever Shall be .., jpg ijgj #
Tours,
M. R.
\ D L XT: e1
1
Letter VI
This 'was sent to Bothwell at the Time when the Afiimofities between the Queen and her Husband were grown to the utmofi Height; and proves ^ that if jbe were acceffavy to his Deaths it was, how ever, contrived and plotted by Murray, though Buchannan, with so much Warmth, ejpoufes his Causey contrary to all the other Authors of that Time, who clearly make manifest, that loth he and Morton were the chief Abettors of that horrid Deed,
T Tlth a Difficulty not to be imagin’d, W not to be expressed, do I get an Opportunity of writing this; my bodily indilposition, joyn’d to the Troubles of my Mind, render me uncapable of Invention; I Suffer myself to endure the eternal Presence of the Persons I most hate, father than be at the Pains of making an Excuse to be alone; r that Spirit, that Courage which was us’d to bear me thro’ the greatest Fatigues, is now evaporated and extin$; — — a Laziness of Soul post fesses me, I cannot think, cannot resolve on anything — ^astift me in this Perplexity, jjlljl jgjjj 1 | gjj jj :, my
It)
my dear Bothwell— — — me, comfort me, find Some Way for my Relief I have no Friend but you, and lure, if you are Such, you will not fuse me long to en f dure these Insults— — — what is it I am asking? — — ’tis dangerous to be loyal— — * Riezoj only because he lov’d his Queen, fell a Sacrifice to the Tyranny off this injurious Husband my Life is next, noram I spar’d, but for the Sake of the unborn Heir of Empire 3 deliver’d once of that dear Burden, my Business in this World is done, 'dn&darly will reign alone— — know my Death alone carl gratify the Ambition of that ungrateful Man, or the unceasing Malice of theengujh Queen; yet might a way.be found to snatch me from the Ruin, had any One the bold nets to attempt it- -- -- all stern and fierce, as he is by Nature, exprefes a Concern for my ill Treatment, and seem’d to hint at Some Design on Foot for my recovering that Prerogative I So unadvisedly gave up, but he, alas! has been so Sullen already, lb arbitrary and insulting when in Power, I dread to invest him with the same again I fear it would be but exchanging one Misfortune for another. — i
D a If
20
If he Should communicate any of his Intentions to you, Answer him with Caution; — if he could be Sincere, I know he has the Means to Serve me, — fathom him, if possible, and let me know your Opi ^ nion, directed under a Cover to Lady Lacy. The Rifihop of Ross informs me, That Morton is returning from the North, if fa, I may believe that Murrays working Brain has not been idle, but whether for mine or his own Interest, Heaven only can relblye : — Keep a fair Correspondence with him, however, ’till we see the Issue, which a little Time will Soon determine— — would reward the Fidelity of \ Lartich by giving him Some handiome Post about me, but as Affairs are it may be dangerous both for him and me; allure him of my Gratitude and Favour when once the Times permit me to make
Show of it. -- -- Farewell. Keep me ever
in your Thoughts.
M R.
5p. £
Since I wrote this, Murray has been to visit me, and finding me all bath’d in Tears, the daily Tribute which my Griefs exacts, bad me be of good Comfort, for ff 11 •- f; Q % | § jj V Bp a
 It
ablow wou’d Soon be given, which would restore all Things to their proper Order; I know not what he means, unless it be the Death of the King, nor had 1 Time to ask: Hamilton came in and broke off
our Conversation. -- 1 wilh you woilkl
endeavour to inform your self and me with all convenient Speed, but do it in a Manner that he may not think L am concern’d in the Inquiry— — more, adieu, my ever dear Bothwell • me, pray for me, and never cease to love me.
Letter VII
There is little contained in this, any more than a Confirmation of the foregoing One, viz. That mortoa’and Murray were the frfi Proposers of the Murder of the Kjng1 and that Both well was no more than their Agent in the Affair, as, indeed $ is manifefi enough, in their being the Per ions, who made a hind of mock Accnfation, that they might have the better Opportunity of clearing him by a Form of Judicature
L nphat I answer’d yours no Sooner, A was owing to the Struggles in my Mind, occasion’d by Proposals ib Shock *
2
', ’ V
ing to a Woman of my gentle Nature.* * Heaven knows I love not Blood, and the Thoughts of feeing that of a husband’s Spilled is terrible to Reflection; yet Self-preservation is the First of Laws, and if ^ there remains no other Means, must fub * mit to this 1 could wish, either that Murray were not engag’d in the Design, or that he did not know I were acquainted with it: -- You, my dear Bothwett\
are too liable to give Credit to his infinu ations, but I both fear and hate him. — Who knows what Use he may hereafter make of the Guilt he obliges me to become a Sharer in? -- But it is now past % Remedy, and I must make a Show of Confidence— — was a Soul more Jhurried than mine has been this dreadful Night, — a Thousand horrible idea’s have run thro’ my distracted Brain, Sometimes methought I law the King all cover’d o’er ', with Wounds, and with his dying Breath imploring Vengeance on his inhumane Murderers; — — at others, wild Jmagina ^ tion presented the Conspiracy unravel’d, and Morton, yourself, and Murray, al ready fallen the Victims of his Revenge, while he, exulting in his Cruelty,, held
a
 2j
a drawn Dagger at my trembling Breast,
- — — Oh! what Variety of Horrors has this Design involv’d me in; ~- Why was I endu’d with a Soul To little capable of Cruelty, yet urg’d to Acts which have so much the Appearance of it ?- — I never lov’d this Burly, and his Ingratitude has made me hate him, yet cou’d I with Pleasure part with Some of my Blood to ransome his, were there a Possibility of avoiding it, how am I guilty then? — ’tis he himself that brings on his own Fate; he forces me, he drives me to this abhorr’d Extremity, and his must be the Blame. ** T Oh! that I cou’d always retain this Thought, that I cou’d wholly banish a Softness prejudicial to my Peace, but’twill not be, in Spite of my Efforts, and all my monst’rous Wrongs, Pity returns and overwhelms my Soul: — Cure me of this Weakness, and inspire me with Notions Suitable to theenterprize in Hand, the very Idea of it will other wise distract me, and in the Moment of its Execution, I Shall cry out, Forbear, and all betray. — Ex) eft then, my dear Bothwett, that all prevailing Wit and Eloquence of yours, to Surnilh me with Arguments to overcome $ so
2
so unfeafbnable a Tenderness; his in your Power to make me almost anything. — Represent the Injuries I have receiv’d from this Tyrannic Husband, the vast Indignities, the Dangers which nothing T but his Death can free me from; — — but above all, make me remember that while he lives, I am depriv’d of Power to render Bothwell happy; - — that last Remonstrance, perhaps, may arm my feeble Re solution, and while that glorious Image is in View, I cou’d, methinks, with unrelenting Hands, myself perform the fatal Deed. -- 1 expect a Letter from you
this Night, with a further Account of t the whole Plan of this Design, which, while in Agitation, will never fuster me to know a moment’s Peace. — Afford me all the Satisfaction you are able, in this Tempest of my divided Thoughts, and know that what I do, I do for you.
M. R,
| Letter
l<y
7 Letter VIII
this plainly appears to he written fcon aftef the Murder of the lying, which happening on the 16th of February, 1564, - and the Process of Dif vorce between the Earl of Bothwell, and Jane Gordon his ivife, being ijfuedout on the 26th of April,, the sane Tear makes it evident, That this mufi be sent to him before he had solicited the Court upon it Concerning thefimes of theft Two Tranfafionsy there is no need to quote any ^ particular Author all Histories agreeing as to L this. \
T1Y iiariyh Death I ant, indeed, dncfe JL) more fa Queen, again enjoy those Plealiires which Power affords, and have the Means' of punishing or rewarding indifferent persons, arid in trifiirig causes * yet am I still circumfcrib7d, the rriore material Bufineis of my Life remains unfinish’d } I am a Queen, but you are riot a King, hill I accomplish that, the Work is not | complete, not can I taste the Sweets or Royalty. — — I begin to think Murray at last, Sincere, and approve of your Design in engaging him to favour your Divorce,
E which
z '
which the bishop Seems to make a slight Matter of, but 1 am afraid will not be so easily obtain’d as he or you may imagine.
-- -- The Apology you make for your long .D
Stay at Bunbritton is altogether neediest, 1 am sofar from resenting it that I look on this self-denial as the most prudent Thing
you ever did. -- -- There are, atthistime,
many Eyes upon our Actions, and to be too frequently Seen together at present, might be a Means of preventing our being for ever together hereafter. -- Send
me a Copy of what you write to Murray, enclos’d in your next, and, if poslible, f make an Interest with Lansford, in whole Power it is to be Serviceable to you on this Account: Let my Secretary know what Sums are wanting to carry it on, and they Shall be remitted to you. — mor tony and ibme others, attend to speak with me, and I have Time to say no more, but that I am ever my dear bothwelts.
M 2?.
2V & |
The bishop of Ross intends you a long Letter of Instruction? which I wou’d have you pbferve in everything: — You
have
 27
have not a better, / nor ^actnore Sincere
Friend on Earth.
Letter IX
It was in the utmo(l Transports of impatient and expecting Love that this Epistle was diltated, and Jeems to be immediately after the Earl had obtained the Divorce from his Wife, which, according to Caftlenaw, Bucchanan and Melville, was on the nth or 12th of May, in the Tear 1567.
bortune, grown weary of persecuting me, at length grows as extravagant in herbleffings, as She was the former Part of my Life in her Cruelty. — Your Divorce being now look’d on as good as completed, jvlunay himl’elf propos’d you to me for a Husband, nay, seem’d eager * in his Pressures, That I wou’d give him my promise that you Should become So immediately after you were in a Conditi
§| on. -- -- Scarce cou’d I contain the Joy of
my exulting Soul, Scarce keep my Tongue from letting him know how much my Heart took Part with his perluasions, and
E 2 never
Original Letters oj
never did I So much as then assume the i Politician; — Had any other discours’d me in that Manner? ■ hare I am? I had not been able to have conceal’d the Pleasure it gave me; but the often experienc’d palihood of that Earl fecurd my Cauti J pn? and made me reply no otherwise than That I would be advis’d by him in eyery 'Idling .D — ’tis possible that he may? in this? be cordial? but to apprehend the worst, is certainly most Safe; he cannot? however? recede from what he has laid? and Mortony and Several others? have of late Spoke of you V ith that respect, that I am convinc’d he has communicated to them his Intentions of uniting us. — Though? i J know you are to be in Edinburgh in So Short a Time? I cou’d not delay making you Partaker of those Transports you are the Author of there is a Delicacy in Such a Love as mine? which will not Suffer me to be blessed alone; and when I think this happy News has reaeffd you? Shall indulge myself in Sympathy, with those Ecstasies which, I flatter myself? you will \ feel at the Receipt of So unexpected an Information, rr— — all the convenient Speed you can to Town? I now long with
double
iyiary uj Otuw. F t y
double Impatience for your Presence: It is not botbv’cll, a Man, whole Freedom with me Love alone cou d authorise, blit my intended Husband, and my future sting, that I shall now embrace : -- Haste then to the Arms, thou ever present to the Heart of.
R
Letter X
. Jhis was occctfion d on the fir(l Contrivance of the pretended Ravifhmentj as Bucchanan terms it, it and discovers rdf?, that Murray and Morton had a Hand in this, as well ns in the Murder of the Jfing; though the former of them made this aetion appear wholly the Queens own Acly when the Affair was examined into Iy the Delegates of Queen Elizabeth at York.
If receiv’d yours at a Time when I was So overwhelm’d in Grief, thaticarce the flowing Tears wou’d give me Leave to read it: Need had I, my dear both <well) of all that Consolation which this pew Stratagem affords, yet am I not convinc’d, plauflble as it teems, of its Success;


cess; we are so much accustom’d to Treachery, that, methinks, there is nothing to be depended on — shou’d this pretended Rebellion you have in Hand, be detected or betray’d by any you confide in, by what Pretence can I screen you from the Sword of Justice; fhou’d I not be oblig’d to give you up to Law, and hear you condemn d for this imaginary Crime However, as our Cafe is desperate, I will not confine you from making uie of ail the Methods ingenious Love can form for our common Felicity; this brings a Sum large enough to raise more
Men than you will have Occasion for, and
depend, that I will come attended by as few as possible— — — is the Person I most fear, both for his Courage, and the Interest he has in thole Parts: I cannot think it was well advis’d, that Murray shou’d not be in the Way, his Presence would have been of infinitely more ser vice than that of Morton, but that is now past faecal, and if he has engag’d So many Hands as he pretends to you, for the Signing the Articles of our Marriage, I do not, indeed, foresee it will be in the Power of the contrary Party to oppose it
— I
 31
— I must, however, all along, appear refractory to that, which i the only Wish of my desiring Soul: — How Shall I fop greatly dissemble?? appear at the Head of an Army, animating them to pursue to Death the Man I love far more than Life? How Seem to represent that as a Rape, which to embrace, I would run
i through the most eminent Dangers! -- --
asfist me, all the Artifices of my Sex, for all will be too little in Such a Circumstance— — bishop of Ross Smiles at my Fears, and. Seems affur’d of Success: : — I know his Integrity, and, as I find, Murray has been perfectly sincere in this Affair, doubt not but he has left emilta ries capable of bringing it about; yet, Doubts and Anxieties are ever the inseparable Companions of Love, while in Puri uit; Heaven send ours once com,, and give feme Period to this distracting Sulpence. Adieu.
s M. R.
P. 5. Once more I warn you to be I careful who you trust in this Affair Remember ’tis our last S take, and if this fails, farewell to all Hope of Happineis hereafter,
Letter
3 '
Letter XI 1
The? Bucchanan so very sir end on fly takes upon him the Vindication of Murray, 'tis evident ly thisf and the preceding Letter, that he was the Prdf moter df this Deftgn; and that before he left Edinburgh, he had engaged niofi of the Nobility to fet their Handsto the Articles of Marriage between the Queen and botlrwell It is remarked ly Caftlenaw, Mcivil, Cauffin, and even Cambden himself that when there was any fmifier Affair in Hand that subtle politi cian9 Murray, always took Care to be abfenty \ leaving his under Engines to work out the Schemes he had form'd\ and by that Means reaped the Profit of his Defigns9 and threw all the Odium on the Queen.
S Write to you with infinitely more Tranquillity of Mind, than that with
which my last was dictated. -- Murray
* has well retriev’d his Character, and more ' .contributed to my Felicity than heretofore to my Vexation. -- -- The bishop of
Orkney, from whom I least expected it, is J wholly on our Side, and ’tis the Earl to whom we are indebted for this Change
in his Behaviour: -1 put my self among
shpri : : - .1 the
 33
the Number of the oblig’d, because I, really am so; tho’ they who Serve me most, believe, at the same Time, they care acting the Reverse of my Inclinations Lr~ See by this, how very necestary dif fimulation is; — my very Enemies, by imagining they undo me, make the hap pinefs of my Life, and thole who wish to see me most wretched, unite to make me most completely blessed: — Did Murray, Morton, Orkney, and the rest of that turbulent Faction, know the perfect Attach.. we have to each other, wou’d. they; * thus plot to join us ?- — No, rather they would fevef us for ever. Thus by a Concealment of our mutual Tenderness, do ^ we disappoint all the Stratagems,
■ which other wise wou’d be form’d to the Ruin of it, and triumph in Security— —
expect not to hear from you any more, neither do I desire it; the great Design grows now so near the Point of being
* executed, that I wou’d have yourthoughts wholly taken up with mafiaging, to the
I best Advantage, this last, afid onlytryal of our Fortune. I am now of Opinion, that it annot fail, sthd feed my fond Imagination with a Thousand glorious idea’s
§ of
3 |
of your approaching Greatnest. — It will be a Joy unspeakable to see you on the Scotijh Throne, but to reflect you are seated there by me.;, a Pride and pleasure, ^ which it is not in Language to represent,
and can only be reach’d by Thought.
Oh! my Bothwell! my Heart beats high with Expectation, and every Faculty of my soul’s on Fire with the impatient Hope: — ’tis but Three Days before the great Catastrophe arrives, yet do they seem so many Ages; be you more cool to attend the long’d for istue, or you will be little able to carry on the Charge entrusted trusted to your Care, and on which depends not only.dur Lives, but future Fame. — Indulge, in Secret, the Swelling Rapture, but let no outward Sign of Joy appear, ’till you are, past’d Prevention, in the Arms of
IVU AN
A N
ABSTRACT
OF
The Life of Mary Stuart,
Queen of Scotland;
Extracted from the best, and most celebrated Authors of that Time.
HHO’ nothing can be more different, than the testimonies which are given of the Conduct and Difpofitidn of this unfortuna e Princess;; all agree. That She was not only the most loveliest, but alio most accomplish’d and wittiest Women of her
V fta*
Time.
But as Wit, without Wisdom, rather j subjects the Owner to Inadvertancies, than the contrary; so the brightnei’s of
F a her
30 he Life of
her Genius inclining her more to other Studies than that of Policy, she was often greatly at: a loss for those Maxims necelfary for allperfons; but more particularly for Princes to observe: : her ’ Yquth, Gaiety, and good-humour, rendering her often forgetful of her Birth, gave Room for Encroachments to be made on her Prerogative; which afterwards, She found was not in her Power to remove.
When tnarried very young to th <daur fihin of France, afterwards Francis the Second j Katherine de Medicis, Queen Mother, taking the Advantage of her easy Nature, manag’d everything as^jhe pleas’d; and when She came to be a Wi .D dow, took Care to make Things So uneasy to her, that She was oblig’d to leave France; tho’ the Place where She had receiv’d the best Part of her Education, had ipany Relations and Friends, and which to quit She look’d on as the greatest Misfortune that cou’d befall her. Monsieur Brantome says, That when She embark’d She appear’d So disconsolate, and y - void of all Comfort, that She drew Tears from the jsyes of as many as accompa; ny’d her.
i
 37
As She grew to riper Years her ipase. ons encreas’d instrength, blit hersoftness of difposition still remain’d; and tho’ Bucchanan brands her with Cruel and Malicious, all the other Writers of her Life r H have laid the Miscarriages of it rather on her being too open to persuasion, and readiness to believe the Insinuations of her filfe Friends, than any Intention of revenging the Insults offer’d her by her public Enemies. ■
On her landing in Scotland, She found
The Kingdom divided between Two factl
ons, the one headed by the Earl of Ha ■mjiltony and the other by James Stuart f Earl of Murray, both equally Enemies to her Authority, as they were to the Peace of their Country. But, as if these were not enough to distract the Mind of a young Princess, little accustom d to the Toils of State, there arose athird, who, under a Pretence of Love, made her feel all the Effects of Hate; this was John Gordon, eldest Son to the Earl of Huntley ^ The Earl of Arran also, Heir of the ha yniltonf Race, flattering his Imagination I with ambitious Views, hop d to raise himself to the Dignity of King by mar
j | \ itin§
%
38 utw jlife
rying his Queen: Both finding their ad d redes slighted, were either one or the other continually raising Rebellions, endeavouring to seize that by, which they found impossible to obtain by infmu ations, and tearing the Bosom of the Kingdom with intestine Jarrs. For this Part of the Troubles in Scotlafee Cambden, Sjjo tfwood, Alelvilj Cafllenaw, c.
Young Gordon being apprehended, and expiating on a public Scaffold, * the Fault of his Ambition, gave a Terror to the rest; the Hamiltons prefum’d not to ' make any farther Claim for sometime, and Murray feem’d to applaud the Justice of the Queen; tho’ all the while he privately insinuated among those inclinable to believe the worst, That She had privately encourag’d the addresies of that Lord, and but thro’ Compulsion, fuffer’d him to fall a Sacrifice to Interests of State.
But this Tranquillity was but of Short Continuance; the Protestants, headed by the Earl of Murray, who made Religion the Cloak of his Ambition, began to raise new Disturbances in the North; and this giving a Pretence to the hamiu tonnes to take up Arms again kindled such" " \; a
 3#
a wild fire among the People, as for many Years was not extinguilh’d; but on the least Diiguft, on either Side, blaz’d out almost to the deftruction of the Nation, r In the midst of these Perplexities, the Cardinal of Lorrain, Uncle to the Scotijh Queen, propos’d Charles Duke of Aujlria to her, for a Husband; but Queen Elizabeth, who kept her in continual Awe, by Reason of her Expectations of succeeding her in the Throne of, deterr’d
her from accepting this Offer; which, in all Probability, had been a Defence from V the ill Fate which soon after attended her,
■ he being a powerful Prince, Son to the Emperor Eerdinand, and ally d to the greatest Monarchs in Europe. There were alio, at the same Time, Ambassadors sent from Thiliy the Second of Spain, to treat, with her about a Marriage with his Son, the Infant Don Carlos but this, as well as the other, the English Queen oblig’d \ her to reject; and, to Ihowhow much lhe was in Earnest, writ a Letter to her with her own Hand, telling her, '• That ^ if lhe C entertain’d any Hope of succeeding to her Crown, lhe muff not think of matching with a Foreigner; and alluring her,. That
4b The Life,
That if she would accept of Henry stervuz arty Lord iiarly, Son to the Duke of Lenox, She wou’d cause her? on the next sitting of the Parliament, to be declar’d her Heir. By all Accounts, as well as the foregoing Letters, She had about thi& Time, entertain’d that fatal Passion for the Earl of jbothweu, which plung’d her into all the ensuing Misfortunes of her Life : But this was, as yet, a Secret dole lodg’d within her own Breast : And as She made the Queen of England's Proposals,, the Fear She was in of disobliging her, an Excuse for refusing all others; So Y likewise, She found Evasions to put off the Lord l)arly all’o, for a constderable Time : But Murray i who, according to •jsfotfwood, had his own Reafpns for obliging her to comply with this last Offer, distrefs’d her so much with his Party, that she was, at last, driven to take Shelter in thole Arms which her Inclinations wou’d have made her Shun.
A Marriage thus made lip, coffd not be expected to be very fortunate; the Queen thought herself above counter j feiting a Tenderness which She was incapable of feeling, and her Indifference, in a
little:
 41
little Time, occasion’d her Husband to treat her with the same; ’till the Animosity grew So great between them, that they not only parted Beds, but Houses alto
: As he pretended to exert the Authority of a Husband, fine endeavour’d to do that of a Queen; and ill Offices being done by those trusted on both Sides, to: : with her unhappy Bastion for both \well, brought her, at last, as Bucchamn | undertakes to prove, to consent to his Death: But other Writers are of a contrary Opinion; tho’ all Circumstances,, and in particular, these Letters written by her own Hand, leave us no Room to doubt the Truth of it.
Once more a Widow, She thought She had it in her Power to raise the Man She lov’d, to Authority; but a little Time convinc’d her, That, tho’a Queen, She ■ was left Mistress of her self, than the meanest of her Subjects; and that to make bothwell a King, stie must have re courle to Artifices, to which She was not in her Nature inclinable. Murray, Mor tony and Some others, who wifh’d the Ruin of them both, contriv’d that he Should Seize theperfbn of the Queen, as She was going to Stirling to visit the young VC' ' Prince jf§l
r I he XI iff of
Prince her Son : these Measures, her unadvised paslion obliging her to give into, was, indeed, the Blot of her Life; and caus’d many to think her guilty, who otherwise would have parted with their dearest Blood in Vindication of her Innocence; viz. caftlenawy who laments this Transaction in very moving Terms, as does also Monsieur Brantomey and Bi shop Lejly, in endeavouring to defend, makes it appear more blameable.
Seemingly forc’d to what She most de fir’d, Botbweli was at last married to her; but little Satisfaction did these Nuptials yield; Mart on, and the rest of the rebellious Lords, took the Opportunity of af * the Act they had been the chief Instruments of promoting, and rais’d a, considerable Body of Men, under Pretence of bringing Botbvuett to Justice, for the Murder of the King and Ravishment of the Queen; tho’ in both these Facts he had been but thetool of their designs, and for the First of them had been declar’d guiltiest in open Court, where he had taken his Trial: ’tis true, indeed, the Judges had been corrupted, but it was by those very Persons who now ac cu«fd him; and who had, all this Time,
no
 43 ^
no other Aim than to make him, first, fabler vient to their Ambition, and afterward to fall a Sacrifice to it. This is evident from his own Confession made at 2)^~ marl, just before his Death, and publish’d by that King in all the Courts of Europe.
Having rais’d an Army in Opposition to that which the Earl of Morton led into the Field, the Queen wou’d needs accompany him; but, the Day before the Charge was to be given, the Earl, whe, there dubious of the Success of Battle, and fearing the Punishments to which he. should be expos’d, if defeated; or, as some Authors affirm, terrify’d in his Confidence by the Idea of the murder’d King; or, as others will have it, on a Sudden Quarrel between the Queen and him, is uncertain to this Day, but he forsook the Camp, and stealing privately away, was never Seen in Scotland after. Nor was his Departure more strange than that the Queen, immediately on it, refign’d her self into the Hands of the Rebels, having no other Security than their promise,
That they wou’d use her as their Queen.
\ Her Infatuation, as Brantome justly terms it, was so great, that She never So much as ask’d to what Place they were conducting
G | her
§8 44 The Life of %;
her, ’till She found herself close Prisoner in the Castle of Locbleven, under the Custody of the Earl of Murray s Mother, formerly the Concubine of King fames the Fifth, This cruel Woman treated j her Royal Prisoner with the utmost In ^ telling her. She was no more j than an Usurper, and boasting, that She was the lawful Wife of the deceas’d Monarch; and that the Crown, of Right, belong’d to her Son fames Stuart.
In this terrible Confinement it was, that Morton and the rest of that Faction, forc’d her to sign an Instrument of Abdication, resigning the Kingdom to her Son, and appointing the Earl of Murray Re \ during his Minority. caftlena‘w> in his Memoirs, reports, That the Lord Lindsay stood over her while She Set her Hand to this Paper; and as her Tears and Tremblings, for fomemoments, wou’d not give her Leave to do it, he bad her make haste, or he wou’d oblige her to Sign it with her Blood. In thismanner Brantome, as we as Cafllenam and Caujjin, relates this Story, gf This being done, She was less strictly guarded than before; and William iou | of about Fourteen Years of Age, compaffionating her Distress, stole
the S
iviary ggpip^i
the Key of the Apartment where (he was |
confin’d, and having prepar’d a Boat, convey’d her over the Lake, where the Lord Seaton, with a Small Body of Horse, waited to receive her, and attended her,
| to Wefl lothian; there a great Number of the Nobility and Gentry stock d to her, acknowledging her still, as their Sovereign and lawful queen.. This is attested .by Cambden and Syotjwood, as well I as gffgp and the Writers of the different Party.
Great Numbers of People flocking to her from all Parts, fly form’d out of them a kind' of regular Army, and began to march towards ixl&fmmit where the Lari of Murray then was, but he having always Troops in Readiness, came forth to
meet her, with Forces ib much lupenor, that lhe, with Reason, was unwilling to hazard a Battle r She was, however, encourag’d to it by the Earl of apt, w “° jj depending on the Juffice of die Cause, thought himself lecureof Viaorw r he Engagement was very fierce on both bides, but, in the End, the queen’s Troops were wholly routed, and several Hundred Men
kill’d on the Spot. •. | 9
Blackwood reports, That a Person, who had efpous’d her Cause tor no other rung
jejif e oj
M to betray her, had difdos’d her!
Designs to the Regent, the Night before the Battle; and advis’dhim by whatmeans he mould difpole his Army, so as to make : jt most serviceable; and that on this Information he took Possession of the Ground near and owed his Victory
wholly to the Advantage of this Situation.
It was with no small Fatigue and Hazard, that this unhappy Queen ’fcap’d fal; tog mt the Hands of her Enemies this Day, Being oblig’d to ride Sixty Miles be % sore fly rested. A few faithful Friends were the Companions of her Flight, who attended her to ‘dmdre, a Seat of the Lord ferris’s, where ihe flay’d a little
ilme to refresh her self, and to consult whidi Part of the World was most likely to afford her Shelter. or
were the only Places where Ihe cou’d promise herself to find it; and after some ®, Debate, made Choice of the latter : though the Archbishop of St. andrew’s entreated her, with Tears in his Eyes, to the contrary: Cajllemw and Sir famesmel m affirm. That when ffie took Shipping he leap d into the Water, still conuiring her to turn back, ’till he was almost fwal ow d up by the Waves, and carried back
lllllllllll 11
A: : • •; v;

Force by his Servants,, who plung’d in after him. V^snggpte ^9H
Soon did the find how much Reafoa that good Prelate had to fear the Reception she; wou’d meet with. As she was on the Road to London, she was met by the lord Scrojj) and 1 Mirier, Deputy warden of the Castle of Carlisle g and, by them, convey’d thither as a Prisoner; haying been first inform’d, That the£»g(^ Queen cdh’d not consent to see her, ’till she had clear’d.; ^ her (elf of the Crimes laid to, her Charge,
Many Years (lie remain’d in Custody, tho’ not in one Place, being frequently.re y mov’d from one Prilbn to another; tear" " that her extraordinary Beauty and Ac { fhou’d move her Keepers to Compassion, as it had donei the young Lord Douglass ■ Attempts being
made to let her at Liberty, iif particular, those of the Duke of Norfolk, Ridolyb, and Babingtm, Tfor which the!duke lost Jiis Head, by the malicious Treachery of Murray, and moult ofth zenpeers, all ' pretending absolute Friendship to him.
She was try’d by the Deputies of Queen gelizabeth, and, at last, after almoli Nineteen Years impril’onment, beheaded in adberi^bm'gameimnmbampou. The
History 9m
igpr. ifiipiiiipiii gg
t ic? fdistory of hertiyal is too well known to ^^^ieed to be infertedhere j; or, to those i'gho ] ‘rant of it, 'may be Seen at large in Camhden* ^^hthus ended a Life, which, from the ' Beginning, feenfd. to be under the div ■; beset. with |
Difficulties on every Side, of a difpohtigjh m dctestingy and unfit for businefs, or the » Toils of .State, 1 yet doom’d to know no Respite feom them f .plung’d in incessant Hp' Cares, with Scarce an Hour of Happinefe§ wmv to rela^ the Weight ^^nfeccefeful in m gj|| Jber I Undertakings and only fortunate, V of her Sex, or
B th Fears, of Death, cou’d make her be v shave, iut^dast Moments, So as to give her Enemies anycaufetotriumph over her. Hying much more a Queen than. She had ■ T' liv’d*, and by her Fortitude and Magnani c f mity, proving, That hadtortune been onj her Side, She might have made as 'glorious a Figure in History as now She does the • contrary; nothing being more true than
ithofeldnes of the Poet, 1 ^ o
■ ' K; ' v' 'r -- -,,; s C' '. - •
'• ■ ‘arid.
., Tor that whkkamkes. a msmnws ffappihejfe Is not m reignlng ztoeil, but vhith Sttcce%
t \ •
L N; i #s|'isiil
9|kpj£ A |J§%«•; * *jf
||8
