T H E /
MISTAKES OF THE HEART:
o R,
MEMOIRS
OF \
Lady Carolina Pelham
•...
A N D
»
Lady Victoria Nevil.
FN A SERIES OF LETTERS.
PUBLI8HEDEY
M. TREYSSAC de VERGY, '
m
Counsellor in the Parliaments of Paris and Bordeaux.
At feeling hearts Isling, nor ever miss the game.
Prior.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
«
DUBLIN:
Printed for James Potts, and Thomas Walker,
Booksellers, in Dame jlreet.
MDCCLXX.


* >
\
\
I
\
t'
%
il
. f
i
./
P R E F A C Ei '
A Book without a presace, like a fine w.dman in a modest dress, will hardly please in: this age of refinement. Wit and beauty the staves of fashion! ridiculous! Give me a girl of eighteen, graced with her own charms; give me a clarisia, and my heart and my eyes will feel and enjoy. What need have I
of fictitious ornaments? -- -- to
heighten my deftres? pshaw! Talk not of art when youth and Guriofity pant but for nature.
I have, a copy of the Venus of Medicis, says one to me.
-- -- Have you? Let me see it
-- -- and I hurry him to his do
fet. Fie stops in the first room,
and
«•
PREFACE.
;
and attempts a description — -
a description! -- A preface and
the graces of the toilet are just that description -- damn
them all.
The AUTHOR
*
\
\
\
•.
/
*
a
i
♦ »
)
DEDICATION.
I
To M. J, J. Rousseau, Citizen of Geneva.
TJ ADI chosen to dedicate my novel to a man of rank, hundreds had I eastly Sound weak enough to thank me for pralses, the more welcome the less they are deserved : but their’s had been the honour, mine the disgrace. I was too proud to mistake. I looked Sora man.whose esteem Should be my glory.. You are the man my ambition.
pointed out to me the man
whose virtues, talents and delicacy,
V u jiulcat lo N.
. cacy, called aloud for my public homage. Deign, Sir, to accept it as the tribute of my respect and admiration.
The author.
'London, March, 17%-
t
»
1
•• 'a •
\
I
'-
T r
%
.. *
*
1
*
%
»
ihe tuliuk.
•. *
Dear Father and Mother, I have Ukewife
>
curtailed the correspondence of my favourite Vidloria — was I right f 1 know not,
. - A
. »*
If faults again]! language occur — wonder there are so few — the author is a foreigner,
f
(
La critique efi aijee, et h art efi difficile.
«
TREYSSAC DE VERGY.
I
, I
n
*
/
f
', ■ ' ■, t .» ^ FF * '-.. « L... V.
CA » ‘'.'A A \ s ti -> ' ' ■ •' ■ ' ■.*' ■ '
CC iiw ".yc'tst T.;.;. • ■
r >* — ■, - ■• '-^ * •. ■*., •.. -. •■ =1
kra '. ^ ■, «■ \'. - > : 'i) zaf ^ - h
V ■ V "" L Cn
- ' ' ■'*. ' ' • S '•■ ■' ’ ’• ', ■., rr '^■
■ ■
LN'. L ■ - ....
ir: : : -, / s ■ L ' *.... ./•
« tynv., ■ t O ^; ■ '. ' A... V
.• ' '. V.' .' ' ’ ^ • ■. -.
.. ■ ■ ' •. ■ ” ' ■ '' ■ ‘ - ■■- ^ ',
-. » 1 ■ ■ ■?. C ♦■••... '..r •
..'•' V .- ' ■.. ■■. .=•. ■. .A. ‘ v ■ ■
-, ■ VVVN V -- ^ y. T, N - ■ •. ■, '.. : ■
, '. ■■'. ' y. : 'S' >' ■'" vs' ■4., L ■
• _ • it* r l : iii ■.. ■' ■; ' ' : ' ' ’
■' -. ' ' •
■ ' y V.. 'h r N .r.., .., .'.. ..;,., -- • ^
V V ' V.. S 'i;. '■- ' ■• ^.. V •■■; -‘ '
., ' - - ■ ■'■ * ' V ■ “. V -,.
. '. ■■ ■ - ■' ' ......
i ‘ ' ■.. -‘ •. ' -
*'■.... ■ • -; ■ • ”, • '''N ' "i
■•■ ’'" ^ ■ ' ' '.
I „ ^, r - * V rs;., ./: .■ ri * ' '. ■ ■ C - ■.., ..., -. ND
t ■= :.; .»•' - r d\ I;; ■ ' .• C
X : y. y ^ ^ ^ ^....
't 4 .- *' ^ ■ ■ - ' '
./. J
, .-' ■■-!.' ‘ ■ ■■ •.. ' ■ ■■. _• ■ * ■ rr ■''.-. i - ■ ■
*. ' y '■ ": ^. '• i'. i ^
'.. .- fi. ■•. '. ' : •* - • ■ -;...
^ ' • ... CI 'N • -• .-•: •■, ..- - ■ ' ' s .■ ■ : - -
■, > '.> r v.v .-; .., •'. • r, -, ..■ •, ' - --
... ' A • ' ■ " ' ■■'■■ - ■ ^ ■• / ■'
'i' • • ' r,, ’’ • ■•■^. •■'^■. ';. '
. V ' ... • d t • ‘. ' ■ ‘ • *..•.* ’•” ^ - '
LV ■., .•.-■ r ‘- V ' • ■' ■ ' ^ '■ ■
A: - ' ’■ ■■; '■ ■ 'r:
: ■ ‘ ' ‘ 'h'. ' ’ ■' 'N --
^■ -'' ' w ' V j T -■■
nv'.......... '.......... ^; ■., UL.'. ■ '_ ■...; L ' i '. /
•■ *, L, ^ .-■'=
1. .r., ->
r- -- ', ■ ■; ■■ I. ■; "' y- --.
r. - -- -’■■■- ^ / <• : - ' ' • /^V v .... V. ^ ... •_
'■' .•■7 ■■ t ■.. :
;, 'tl■, - ..a,,.,
'"*• * ■ ' ' - •'■ ^ '■ ' ' - ' ' 'ri ' ' ^ ^ •' ^ ref ’
’’TV Ar '■\ ■ ^ ..- *.. ' "Tv"'.'''. ■ ' / ' •■■.•’; ' ■' ' rd- -- j.'’
*'■..* •.!. '. ^ ' '< t •'■-■
'-•, .> ■' ■- ■... .'.. : ■■■■*■
: •"■ ■- '*..; ^ ‘.. : : V •.. ■ • V
■■ ■■ t., - i varwr .' ' ' r ''■ '>•= V ‘
'Ai ' ■ - '■ ' '- '-' ■ • •' i. ' - 'ct ’
t' ' ■ ..•■■., : - ■.' ' y * -• -’
N AVK '/ A ' / ' * I ' ri J..
- T i’ : .M; /, : w -' C w y.
V C - •., '•• ■ '■ •. y. ■ Z?C: o" " ' • ’’ -• ' '•
'■ .■■■-<■'■ ■- .....v '•• ■■• ■ '
■ V -- C -^ -. i# 'i h' ' ■• ■
T, L.' vc '' ’'■ '"he.: -' '. ■ '■ h'; ■'; • ' .■
'■• ' ' ■ ' ' • -. -. ' ' ' ' V
• '
•
THE
EDITOR
TO THE
PUBLIC.
rfh E real merit of these memoirs., not my regard for their author, has induced me to puhhjb them.
Friendship Shall never hiafs my judgement,
/
when 1 may forfeit the puhlk ejleem by obeying her calls.
)
1 wish the author had been as chafie in some of his piflures, as he has been delicate in Ms sentiments, happy in his conversations, skilled in the human heart: but was he wrong * ■ ■ to
JL rtts JE. .1^ X X ^ XA.
k'
to follow nature, to write what hctfelt, to
»
represent mankind as they are ft — 1 cannot,
/
will not, say he waf.
I have read this novel, sometimes with thee
cool eye of a crhic, sometimes with the inflam
\
ed soul of a lover, Reason now and. then ob jefled, but pafflon was ever pleased.
jvhat Shall I say of the sprightliness of
Carolina— — the ingenuity of Victoria — of
\
the wanderings of Lady Belmour and Sir John Modish.? — ivhat Shall 1 say! — Te crit

tics, Jilence! — They have pleased me. Every impartial bel esprit,. every feeling heart,, will echo — “they have pleased mep
fhere were fever al letters of Lord Pelham
^ hudfo unmercifully virtuous, they would have
\
yawned the fair and the gay into as found a nap as the. Journals of Pamela Andrews to her sh i: Dear
I
M E M O I R S
O F
Lady Carolina Pelham.
/
and
I
Lady Victoria Nevil.
LETTER 1.
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
Here has been a meteor, Carolina; a meteor which shone so bright, and radiant, that our eyes were almost dazzled with it. It came from London, and stopped for a fortnight in Cumberland : its motions were So quick and rapid, that it Seemed in twenty places at once. Very likely, what was so new, and so, peculiarly striking to us, is quite familiar to you: London furnishes more than one of these phenomenons; and Sir John Modijb is not the only man who has exchanged nature for art, and fense for wit. — How we looked and stared at the embroidered fluttering
beau How people crowded about him when
B he
♦
I f
lie appeared in public! -- Neither Lord be,
nor the illustrious Orator nor even the Spirited
w***es, have ever attracted the attention of the
— X
fools of England in so eminent a degree. — these are not fueh unparalleled oddities in politics, as
Sir John is really in civil Society. we were, I
believe, the first; who were favoured with a sight of the delicate, elegant, and cheerful creature. He waited on us at brenton hall, and complimented me with a courtly bow, and a conscious air of his dear self-importance. His tongue was So ready for flattery, and his lips for Smiling approbation, that I durst hardly venture a word, or steal a look at him. He begged the favour of my hand at our next ball at Carlijle; but assuring him, it was engaged to Mr. Frojby, he, on a Sudden, hummed a tune — danced his disappointment away — — — and took his leave. — To have Sir John for a partner! Could anything be more inviting, more glorious, more d propos to raise..
vanity of a country girl! -- -- -- -- Why did I
keep my word, and reriife the high honour Sir John deigned to confer upon me? Since I have disregarded this uncommon opportunity, I am afraid I stiall ever be the thoughtless Victoria, who knows not how to ridicule modesty in a man’s behaviour, and esteem and commdid foppery and impertinence. ’tis very lucky, Carolina, I am at such a distance from London, where, indulged in my unfashionable prejudices, I am at liberty to detest vice and folly, without the fear of Satire and contempt. Let not a Soul know of my existence : let me live only for my Car oil tia and Frojby. Adieu.
brentm hall, Feb. 7, 176-.
LETTER
L .5 J
L E T T E R II * *
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria Nevil.
HO W came you, dear Victoria, not to be most agreeably entertained with Sir Johris lively conversalion, and prefer to him the modest, and plain Mr. Frojby? Have you neither vanity, nor self-love? Is not my Victoria ashamed to glory in a virtuous lover, when in opposition to a courtier, so highly celebrated for his taste and brilliancy of wit? You dare openly to declare, that decency and morals are the only amiawe and essential qualities in a man, when the whole world rise in defence of gallantry, intrigue and
perfidy! -- -- -- -- How Lady Frejlon, and Lady
Coquet will exclaim against such a novelty! How they will sheer when I shall whisper them that Sir John is not to be praised for being young, handsome, rich — and the very pink of coxcombs!
— I am at a loss, Victoria, how to justify such an extraordinary proceeding. What can I say? — — Come — let me See. — I could — No: it won’t do
< — This will do better — better! How! -- -- -- i’ll so
rack my brains — Have we no instance of a petit-maitre left off for — for what? — The character is so old, — or So new, — that there is hardly an expression to — O! i’ll find it out. — Yes, yes, I have it; for a man of sense. Is not this a pretty
word, Victoria- -- -- frightful woulst be the
sound of it in a polite drum! — How exquisitely odious to a fashionable lady! — Well, have we no such instance to produce in your ladyship’s
favour? -- -- Where shall I look for it? — At court
? — In the city? — Where fall I look for it, Victoria? — Had you really this particular way of
thinking, loving, and behaving, — — -- -- how jealous
I should be I The delightful thing, to be Spoken
B z of
• L ^ J
■»
of in the drawing-room, and at every rout., as a
yet unseen piece of nature! -- -- -- -- -- to fix upon
one’s Self every eye and every tongue! -- -- -- (Dh!
let the manner be ever so out of the way, it must: be above the expe6lations of the proudest
heart. -- -- -- Who could resist the temptation,
when attended with So much glory! -- -- -- -- -- But —
but -- -- How many buts against the thirsty soul
panting after fame and distinction! — Had you wisdom, talents, and beauty, united to the most refined, enchanting degree — Were you unrivalled for grace and wit — Could you with a word, or. afmile force all men to your feet, and throw them
into raptures -- -- even then, Victoria, you Should
be the object of malice and difcontent~even then, you should be railed at by your most Sanguine admirers.
His not in our borrowed existence to applaud virtues we are deprived of: far from being inclined to acknowledge a Superiority, which humbles our pride, we are always ready to represent it in an odious and despicable light. Slander, Victoria, is a weapon trusted in our hands, by fashion and pleasure, to oppose the bold Spirits that re fume to lead us into the Solitary paths of honour and decency. The reason of a few individuals shas been, is, and ever shall be, drowned amidst the clamours of the multitude. The general cry being for the folly in fashion, whoever disregards it, is treated as a common enemy, and dangerous innovator.
How happy is a private station in life! — — — How happy that position in which we are free from the lash of mode and criticism! — What do I say! Is there any happiness where it is not felt? Is there any poignancy of taste, when obstacles interfere nqt between pillions and the object we eagerly Seek after? — To be compelled to. wander
over
[ S i
over bushes and thorns, before we shelter in the
^ t
bewitching arbour of peace and voluptuousness!!
— ihought, Victoria I -- -- Adieu!!!
Continue to love Frofoy — to laugh at fashion — and to believe me yours for ever.
London, February 176-.
Carolina. LETTER III
MU S T I be eternally tormented by Lord
Charles Fanfly -- -- that Lord Charles,
Victoria, who is the most steadily tedious, and provoking man upon earth! No change, though ever so trifling, appears inf his understanding; and tomorrow he will do me the favour of the same impertinent conversation, with which he has daily vexed me to death, ever since I have been acquainted with bis cringing, unthinking lordship. Ishis is the man whom my father ordered me to love, and to respe£l, tho’ my reaibn tells me he deserves to be hated, and despiled.
Was I of a coquettish dispofltion, the man would do well enough tor a husband, of whom, no more is now required than titles, riches, and indifference : but as I intend to have one who will chat, fret, and rave in a lively strain, and whom I can prattle into fondness;; want a more witty companion to wait upon me to the temple of Hymen.
I don’t mean, dear Victoria, to be passionately in love, and to turn mad upon my hushand’s Smiles : no! no! 1 do not pretend to that Supreme bliss; a lower rank in the terrestrial happineis will Satisfy my ambition.
I have always observed, dear Victoria, that nothing tempts a lady more into Society, than the having no amusements at home; that want is the principal cause of the many false steps, passions,
B 3 and
[ 6 ]
and littlenesses which distracst, and ruin a family. What can one do with a fool, - who will neither divert, nor be diverted; who will (without mercy) tell you over, and over again, the childish tales h? has learned from his nurse, or from his even jes^ rational governor j who will be continually Speaking about horses, dogs, and his follies at Newmarket and White's? — Is not our head vapourish ly affected by the unwelcome repetition; and are not we justly enticed to order the coach, and ga iop away to a friend for pleasure and comfort?
My father loved me to excels! and he could be So unjust as to command I should marry the Son of his intimate friend Lord Fanfly, or forfeit thirty thousand pounds, which he left to my brother, in cafe I opposed his vii!! — did not Surely intend I should be the wretchedest of women. — Could a father — — >■ — No! no! it would be a crime to obey, when my submission would plunge me into
the deepest railery. he thought I should love,
and that Lord Fanfly deserved to enter into his family, otherwise he would not have entailed upon his daughter the horrors, and vexations attending a forced, and detested engagement. -- -- -- ^I’U,
never be Lady fanfl y. -- -- What have I not to
hope from the tenderest of mothers, and from a
brother who has So high a friendship for me? -- -
I would hate, next to deformity, to blush for a man who Should have been my choice, to the e
veiiasting dishonour of my taste and delicacy. --
Poor Charles! He loves me so heartily'! — Then he "
looks so! -- Were his soul as Sublime, and his
tongue as eloquent as his eyes are expressive !-
Adieu.
London, Feb. 176-,
LETTER
L / J
L E T T E R TV.
WAS I a man, dear Victoria, I would kneel, ' kiss your hands, and tell you devoutly, I adore you : — I would kneel, kiss, and adore a gain, and again. — What a charming creature I Slow ssncere! how ingenuous! — What man deserves so much innocence and virtue! — Does the happy Frojby, who made you ling his praises; who first taught you to love, and to express it, know all the value of your charms, and the fensibility of your heart? — Can he see, and hear you, without the utmost complacency, and delight? Is he not lost in the contemplation of so much excellence? and are not his eyes the seat of love,, and enchanting
confusion ?• -- -- -- -- awful is the presence
of beauty! * -- -- What troubles does, it not cause
in a lover’s breast when indifferent,. -- -- -- what.
raptures when pleased!!
often as I conssder the many loving thoughts, which a retirement in the country inspires us with, as often do I feel a half regret to have been three whole years drudging at St. Jamefs, for the mere ambition of attradting applause, regards and admiration.
Had I never been out of pelham half I should ha ve had my Frojby, my birds, my bed of tulips, and my parrot. — What bewitching amusements! Frojby would have told me fine things, and taught them to the parrot, that I might be constantly en lertained with love and flattery. “How hand“
“! how witty! how graceful! ” -- -- -- would
have attended every visit, and, perhaps, every period -- And then, Frojby the next day -- -- -- - — and
always Frojby — at dinner, in the garden, at cards;
— to be Sure 1 should have been perpetually sighing when alone, and Smiling, and enchanted when with him charming life! But as she converlk
B 4 tion
y
C 8 ]
tion of a young lady, out of a fashionable circle, is generally limited within a very narrow compass, I do not conceive how Frojhy, let him have ever so Sprightly an imagination, could have helped betraying me at last; into a perfe<st indifference, if not a total distike.
have always taken a disgust to my most favourite tunes when played three times over -- -- -- -- Why
should it not be the same with respedl to ihe melodious words, “I love you, nobody walks, talks, dances, sings, and does anything So Sweetly, and ravishingly as you ?’^ — Is my heart better disposed
for Sentiment than my ear for harmony? -- -- -- -- How
could I ascertain the Superiority of an Handel, and a Frojby, if neither a Pincini, nor a Lord Fanjly ever came in my way to enhance their value, by the striking dissimilitude of their merit and talents?
When our heads are heated with a pleassng idea, we delight in deluding ourselves;; I am not Surprised, dear Victoria, that your heart should be sofar deceived, since nobody has yet shown you the profpe£l of a new, and more lively passion— — could lay my life, that your heart is at rest though you feel it in a flame. — How are you Sure you love,
having never had an opportunity to hate? -- -- -- —.
Even from your infancy, has not everyone been anxious to please you? Had you ever a dessre which was not applauded, and gr.itified? With tender parents, and indulgent friends, how could you be acquainted with pride, envy, jealousy, and tile other foibles inseparable from Society, and a worldly education? — Were Sir John Modijh, and Mr. Frojby, in the drawing-room, and every di flin<51: ion confined to the former -- -- vanity, vanity,
my Sweet and modest Victoria, would add a beautiful rose to your blooming cheeks, and enlighten you on the mistakes of your heart. I do
not
r 9 ]
not say you would love Sir John, but ten to one tiie slighted Frojby would fink in your esteem. L
W e do not know ourselves till interest and passion force us to the inquiry. Led in a peaceful country life, by custom and habit, we love as we eat, ling, and walk : a partridge there, no more than a lover, can hardly create an unfelt sensation
■ -- -- will laugh at my incredulity, Victoria;
and Frojby shall be the better loved for my not
thinking him so. -- -- -- With afl my heart : but —
have a care not to put it in my power to recriminate,. Adieu.
London, Feb. 176-.
L E T T E R V
/
Lady Coquet and I went yesterday to the Green park, where we had not been ten minutes, before we met with Sir John Modijh, in a riding dress.
“He had just dismounted’to have a glance ct the Ladies, and was tired,, almost to annihilation.’'
Have you had any news from Cumberland, Lady Carolina f How does the heavenly Victoria do?
- She is very well,. Sit John..
And then, forgetting’ he was over fatigued, lie chatted with Such velocity, and fire, inpraife off the beloved girl, that being afraid he should drop down at our feet. Lady Coquet presented him with her falls. T could not help laughing, to hear. Sir John Swear by his Victoria, that they, could not come more d propos,. for his strength wonderfully decayed whenever, he Spoke of the Beauty who had enslaved him. — He Said it was a downright murder, that a young lady of your rank and merit should be buried in Cumberland, when fly might be a toast
B i in
»
t
[ 10 1
in Town. He complained of Lord Nevil, who sacrificed his most amiable daughter.
Sacrifice! Sir John — Is not Mrs. brentod.s immense fortune a Tatisfa61: ory compenfalion for Lady victorid.s altendance upon her aunt? — •
Certainly it would be so, was not Lady Victoria left entirely to the will, and difposal of Mrs. breti tonne : But pray. Lady Carolina, conssder what a loss to the court, if she ever — Surely, Frojby cannot be the man. —
Why not? Is hot Mr. Frojby of an illustrious family, and a man of chara(ster? —
Of character!! character, Lady Carolina / A man who has no interest at court, a man of character! A man whose name is hardly mentioned twenty miles out of his own manor, a man of character 1 Has he once posted to Newmarket, or taken a trip to France, and Italy f Who ever Saw him at almacfs or Soho f And that man. Lady Carolina! — that man, a man of character! — — I commend an honest citizen, who goes now and then to lavish his profits in the beau monde at Paris, but a Frojby, who never fashioned his clothes, his table, his countenance, in the modern taste, Jur mon honneur, un tel homme eji pitctable. —
Lady Coquet asked whether his rival —
My rival, h ejry Coquet! my rival! —
I beg pardon,. Sir John — Do you believe Mr. frojjjy has already inspired Lady Victoria with a tender prepoltession. —
1 am not yet determined what to think of it. Lady Coquet; for tho’ I have the most exalted idea of Lady victoria’s delicacy, I am sometimes forced into a belief of an intimacy between them. Lady Victoria imbibed both her reason, and inclinations at brenton hall. The neighbourhood allowing frojby’s visits, a Society was formed — That love ha intruded unawares upon their hearts,
wnder
I I J
under the name and fan£fion of friendship, is what
fufpe6i — — — and what I will not believe. -- -- -- -- --
At the last ball at Carlisle, I asked her hand; but to my unspeakable chagrin, it hast been promised. Frojby was her partner; and, as I learned, he always was So. — There is no concluding, there was love in her choice.
Neither must you conclude there was none. Said Lady Coquet, that is in the class of probabilities : bessdes, I imagine there was a necessity for Lady Victoria to dispofe of her heart, to embellish the horrors of het wilderness. vvhat would have become of her had she no lover to trifle away with the many tedious hours that lay upon her hands?
she had neither a Ranelagh, nor a playhouse- -- -- -
she always read, meditate, walk, ssng, and pray? Her heart. Surely, wanted as much diverfl on as her head; and Frojby being the only man, who sighed, courted, and flattered, who had incessant opportunities to amuse and to please, how should their attachment to. each other be a prodigy?? —
very great one; Lady Coquet, one of the most marvellous kind. ’tis the unconstrained familiarity of their visits,, prompts me. to think, that, unknown to themselves, they are captivated by the delusions of Sentiment, and Subject to the
fafeinations of fancy, -- -- Expressions of fondness,,
Smart repartee,, may inchant by their novelty — • but how quickly do their charms vanish when they, are frequently repeated! i
Were one of you,.. Ladies;, and a fine gentleman, to break in upon Lady Victoria and Mr,, Firojhy, they might possibly, for a week or two, humour, the deception, from, habit or vanity; but believe me,, the first fortnight over, our lovers would necessarily awake to the ambition, or pleasure of conquering a new heart..
Lady
[ 12 J
Lady Coquet, insisting on his not loving you;,.. Suicehe was .not jealous, he Swore, by the Sacred name of Libertyj that he loved you more sincerely than Pitt ever loved a peerage.
“It is his immense refpecst for Lash Victoria, that hinders him from fearing a competitor like” — ' you may guess whom.
The man had such a fund of self-love! — he is really handsome, and truly elegant— — such a pride! — Were his heart as mischievous as it is bold,
what would not my Victoria have to dread! -- --
That the same power which formed thee equally virtuous, fenssble, and fair, may still protect thee, is the daily wish of thy Carolina. Adieu.
London, — - 176-.
LETTER VI
/
I Cannot conceive, ^ dear Victoria, how it happens, but I am so penssve today, and so absent- -- -- it from the weather, my natural temper,
or the conversation of my visstors, that my Ipirits are thus oppressed? — What can be the cause of my being so very different frommyself?
The gay, the "cheerful Carolina., thoughtful, without knowing the “Why !” and the “How V’ Lord Charles? — he did not speak— — James f he Sung well. — The day is fine — I am well — what’s the matter with me then?
I went last night to the Suspicious Husband
there was, in the adjoining box — What then? — “does my melancholy proceed from that box? — Could a comely stranger, though ever so engaging, give me a moment’s uneasineis? — He looked — he
Spoke — was delicate - artlefsly graceful -- How
could all that take my gaiety away? — If it is not that, what is it then? Cannot you help me, dear Victoria - — You, who are soused to igh,
and
[ H J
and to love, — and to love and to tell, cannot you guess, whether there is any Symptom of your rapturous fenssbility sh me
Carolina in love! — With whom, pray? — With a man Ihe never saw before, whom she may chance never to see again! — Incredible, incredible — HI take my guitar and play that thought away.
Lady Prejion, who accompanied me to the play, insisted, the whole night,, that my eyes had been oftener upon that box, than upon the incomparable — Foolish girl! — How weak we are,
Victoria! — Who could imagine that our hearts, should thus pant, and flutter at a first sight! — Garrick played Ranger, and I forgot he did! — Oh! my guitar, my guitar —
My guitar is as rn«ch out of order as my head — My fingers and my voice stave lost tsteir wonted vivacity.
Southeast mn e amor, cfl dunque quel th'io fento f
None of your laughs. Sweet Victoria,, none of your laughs : pity your Carolina, and if you can tell her what ails her — do it — do it immediately.
Tell me not of love — Of love did I say? — Let not the bewitcliing sound reach and please the ear of the indifferent, happy Carolina. — Could it be in any man’s power — No : often as I stave yielded to the delusive calls of fancy,, I could withstand, reality — fight it, and conquer. Conquer! — stow easily Said! — how difficult to be done!
I am afraid, Victoria, the confliil would prove too hard for me. How often have I not sighed in Secret for a gown of the newest taste,, for a diamond of a brighter water than my own, or for the opening of a ball! Is not a man a more tormenting trifle to a lady’s brain, than a piece of silk, a diamond, or the honour of a first minuet? “Ami not mad to ask that question of the ingenuous Victoria,
toria, who never Swerved from nature, or wished
but for Frojby f
Fashion has given an existence to so many temptations unknown to my Victoria — Oh.! my heart, my heart! — Adieu.
London — 176 —
LETTER VIL
HO W! Frojby^ already uneasy! For what pray, dear Victoria f Had you not let him into the Secret of your heart, I should not be Surprised at il; but he knows you love him, and he is uneasy!! — has. hardly a rival, and he is fearful and Suspicious!! he an hundred, ought he to mishust the ssncerity of my Victoria?
Fear that Victoria may change! — Surely you are mistaken, you have had too many proofs of Mr. Frojhfs love and respect, not to doubt such a monstrous metamorphosis.
How could he love and not esteem you? — — No, it is not in his power to have a thought injurious to my Victoria : Once again, you are mistaken.
Mistaken! — You tell me, ‘‘ he was two days absent from brenton haw’ —
Two days! -- -- -- -- And he loves you! — That“
“the third, he made no apology : and upon your obligingly inquiring after his health, by a Sweet, How d’ye do? he Sullenly answered, Very well, and then fell a criticifmg the flowers you. had just been drawing.
“At dinner, he did not once offer to help you. — he found fault with the flavour of a hare you had ventured to commend — and even refused to ling. — Before and after tea, Mr, Frojby was neither with you, nor with anybody else, but kept constantly at the harpficord — Only ten minutes before
he
[ 15 I
he took leave, he began to tell how the country would revive upon Sir John modi/ffs arrival —. You then happening to Smile, the gentleman made faces, and went away.”
Well — all that, — notwithstanding the mighty charge — yes nall that is nothing at all — or Something indeed.
What did the man mean? Let us lay our heads together, and we will guess it right — or wrong. Wrong would be more to the purpose; for in a Situation like yours, trulh is generally an impertinent inlruder.
Frojby, by his absence, inlended either to enhance the pleasure of feeing you, or to know hov/ he should be regretted. Worse and worse, Co, rolina /”
Would you have him love somebody elfe, or not be in his right fenses? —
“How cruel you are, Carolina /” —
Some men are apt to realise what strikes their fancy; Frojhy, perhaps, has had a dream, in which he did not adl the first part — who knows but Sir John was happier than he in that dream? — >
“The vexing Creature! — ”
Well — Mr. Frojby had a fit of pride — of folly — of — I know not what — Where can I find the idea of what is not? How can I sufpe6l there is not a perpetual incense and adoration, when Victoria. is the deity? — I will not believe — believe! — no : I will not believe — And I tell you again and again you are mistaken. Adieu.
London — 176 —
LETTER VIIL
TH E world may say what they please— — will never alter my opinion : it shall be a unchangeable as the eternal laws of Nature
Is
': r I
Is it not provoking, Victoria, that men Should wantonly indulge themselves in every violation of their duty; that they Should even pride themselves.... it, whilst the least frailty, the least omission in one of our lex, is cried down as an outrage to humanity, manners and Society?
Are there two natures, two laws? and can women only offend,, though the weakest, and the most' powerfully tempted?
If, in respect to religion, virtue and vice are equally rewarded and punished, why do we differ in our notions of honour and infamy? Is there any other good,, any other evil,, than what the laws of morality enjoin or prohibit? Can the same crime be, and not be? — If men are at liberty to be unjust and perfidious, whence that liberty? — Whence the judgement against us for imitating them?
If people will believe there is no religion, when priests live as if there was none, is it not to be feared, that justice and probity, should be looked upon as precarious and absurd, vvhen, far from be iiig in esteem, they are ridiculed by the wifest part of mankind? ' -
I do not intend, Victoria to apologise for the foibles of my Sex <: Instances of depravity will never justify it in the heart of your Carolina : but let me pity the unfortunate women, whom an abused virtue, and too unguarded fenssbility, have brought to ruin and contempt; though from that ruin, and that contempt, men draw both their fame and
gshi’y*
How ridiculous, how preposterous the opinion,. that condemns in us those very acstions, which it not only applauds in men, but even Sets in an. honourable light! Are we to Support the dignity of
rational beings, while they sport wish, it? — -- -- -- -- -
Is it upon us alone, that she Safety and welfare of
mankind
I
L 17 J
mankind depend? How stupidly unjust, insolent and tyrannical!
I have been led to these refledfions, by a Scandalous report raised against Lady Wyndham : how well founded it is, none can tell; however, everybody Sneers, censures, and defames.
Lady Wyndham has every quality to please, and make a man happy; but Lord Wyndham, after four months marriage, changing on a sudden, his flattering behaviour into a mortifying indifference. She at length launched into Society, and most likely was courled into a revenge.
Lady Wyndham has been Seen twice in a landau, with Sir Henry Mulgrnve, in windfor park — And from that circumstance comes the mighty clamour against her reputation. — — Lord Wyndham, to be Sure, is not in the wrong, and has had no hand in the Seeming miscondu£l of his lady : he acted as, a gentleman; was he to be faithful to an amiable woman who was his wife? No, no, he is not to be blamed; and Lady Wyndham, is justly fcanda lised, for having youth, beauty, and a feeling
heart. -- -- -- Sir Henry iriumphs, and Lady
ham -- -- -1 am really in a passion at hearing lb many
impertinences -- -- -- What is equally stupid, and,
infinitely more insufferable, our ladies at court, who should defend the unhappy fair, are the most
diligent promoters of her disgrace. -- -- How can
they forget they already are, or Soon may be, in need of a greater indulgence themselves? But there must be fools everywhere, and upon every 11 age — I except brenton half where lives my generous, fenssble Victoria. Adieu.
London — 176- —
L L
L IS J
■
LETTER IX
WHY do I Seek for retreat, when all the world panls after joy and dissipation? Why this
throbbing heart? -- Whence so many ssghs? —
Peace, Content, amiable Indifference, ye faithful attendants of my former days, have you forsaken
me? -- -- Dismal thought! — Wretched Carolina F
— — An unusual emotion glows through my veins -- -- -- -1 think, and shudder -- -- -- Can nothing afford relief to my dejected Soul Where shall
1 look for comfort? — Mussc, books. Society, have
lost all their charms, all their illufion pleasure
has fled from my looking glafs, from my toilet,
from the language of my admirers -- -- fled from
whatever was adiversson, or a delight to me. --
Lady Prejion I -- -- It was you, who enticing
me to the play — No — you were the blind minister of fate — It tempted you, led the, way, and love completed my misery.
■what troubles, what anxieties, have I not felt
from that fatal day 1 -- -- A stranger -- -- -- AMAN
whose birth, manners, fortune, are still unknown
to me -- -- -- And my heart dares to throb at the
dear remembrance — My mind to dwell upon his
graceiul features — Oh! Victoria! Victoria! -- -
Donst i complain Sweetly? -- Is not my heart
ravishingly torn by the imperious and distrachng passion? Was Victoria ever So deeply asfe61: ed as her Carolina? Had she ever a raving minute? merciless Frofby, who never raised your Spirits, by real whims, or apparent inconstancy!
I hate the man, for not having made you display the overruling eloquence inherent to disappointment, jealousy, fury, and despair. -- Hovr
pleassng to have Seen you v/alk, and sst, and walk
again -- -- Fetch broken Sighs — Lift your eyes to
heaven, and call for vengeance,, or relief, in some
noble.,
^ [ 19 3
noble, pathetic Soliloquy! — How full of dignity, terror, tenderness, and Sorrow, each step, each look, each word, each tear!
Nature, Victoria, formed you to charm under every shape; how ungenerous then the lover who keeps you from the knowledge of your hidden
charrns! -- How few men would deny themselves
the pleasure of so many expressive changes, and the yet more inviting temptation of raising storms in your loving breast, to enjoy a tear, and the ecstasy of a reconciliation!
Were I inlove — Were I! ’xis prettily said, indeed : Well, had I a lover, I would torment him to the utmost; I would Search into the temper of the man — How could that be done without inspiring him with instantaneous, fierce, and contradictory passions?
The Secure lover, ever degenerates into — a husband. How can his lady, living in a more brilliant, and indulgent Society, help being followed if handsorne, admired if witty, loved if tender, tempted if in her bloom? Must she dress unfashionably, move awkwardly, talk ridiculousty, to please her sovereign lord, who begins to be uneasy, fretful and perplexed? Must she cast her virtues away, to whirl from folly to folly? — Had the man’s temper appeared whilst a lover, a fenssble lady would either have denied him her hand, or he would have reformed by the palpability of his absurdity and impertinence.
Marriage, dear Victoria, is so important a buss nefs — Is it not extravagant to treat n with careleit nels, whilst we are So nice and attentive in the choice of an headdress, the colour of a ribbon, or the make of a shoe? — I doubt whether reason is nol an empty, name — Whither am I running? — Lord, what a letter! Why does my Victoria desire her foolish Carolina to write?? her ihy
pen,
<.
* i 20 J
L
pen, or bid her be filent — “Anything upon nothing, and nothing upon anything, rather than nothing at alh” — fiuch were your commands — I obey : so forgive. Adieu.
London — 176 —
L E T T E R X
I Was very busy at my toilet this morning prac» tiling a new Smile, and improving upon a courtly attitude, when Sir John Modijh Sent his name up. Unwilling to be helped in my deep study by so great an adept, I ordered him to the drawing room, where I presently went to receive him.
How! hardly noon, and So fresh and blooming I I Swear, no woman can boast of so many native charms as Lady Carolina.
And she man was going to kiss iny hand.
Have you so easily forgot Lady Victoria, Sir John, the unrivalled Victoria?
Would you have me for sher sake be unjust so the accomplished Carolina? —.
I begged of him to lit down.
When do you propose to fet off for cutnler land? -- --
in a few days. My Lady.. I am come to take my leave and beseech your interest. — You cannot refuse it me. — Tell me. Dear Madam, would yon refuse it me?
My interest! -- -- Is there any need of it when
Sir John Modijh is the lover? — Only Frojhy in the way, and you call for help! —
1 will unbosom myself to you, Madam. When I conssder the characster, the education, the principles of Lady Victoria, I do sincerely mistruft my feif, and am all apprehensson — Be your amazement
I J
•• •• •
merit ever so great, it really is so, and I do not even blush for it — no, not even blush for it.
I could affe(st every quality and .every virtue. Lady Victoria may esteem : I could put on an air of reserve and candour, but it would be a deceit, and I disdain it. She must see me as I am, and there being so little affinity between us, how can I pleased how can I be respected?? — thought distradis me. Why am I caressed in London, and
neglected in Cumberland? -- -- -- -- Are our manners
here so opposste to good order as to frighten the artless offspring of nature? — But few women could •entertain So extraordinary a prejudice — Ought Lady Victoria to be one of them? — How hard this!
— Is it not yery hard. Madam? —
Lady Victoria, Sir John, knows mankind are, and must be, fubjefl to many foibles : she will as readily praise you for your virtues, as she will pity you for your errors. —
Amiable creature! — Would she but smile upon me! — To be reduced to the point of fearing by less than myself! How strange, and unaccountable I — h
Was there the least shadow of honour in disguising my temper so as not to be fufpe^ed for Sir John Modijh, 1 would attempt it — — I would ’ top my part to a miracle. -- -- -- -- How many pretenders
to virtue would not Scruple to take advantage of her ingenuity to gain her heart, that their whole life might be a perpetual scene of joy and happiness?? — — let me be ever so hated I will be like myself. If my love, my respeft for the virtues of Lady Victoria cannot change me, no pretext whatever shall force me to wear a perfidious
rnask. -- -- She shall never reproach me with the
intention of betraying her into a mistake. —
Pity me, Lady Carolina j and if friendship can allow you to write to her of a man, though un
worshy
?worthy of her attention, pray write — Let me b6g the favour on my knee. —
Be pleased to keep your seat. Sir. —
Proud man! How meek and humble! —
He had such an air of fincerily and concern, that I was really moved — Words flow with such
a grace from his lips -- -- Fle Spoke in such a noble
and disinterested mariner -- ..... what failings
has he that most people of fashion have not? With this difference, Victoria, that if folly could decent ly play on any one’s features, he is almost the only man who could adorn it.
The seed of every virtue is in his soul, and his love for thee, will make it Spring up. ’tis by Lady Victoria, Says my mother, with whom Sir John is a great favourite, that he will be made conscious, he was not born merely to be a beau : to her he will be indebted for the discovery of his hidden qualities.
Lord Pelham, Victoria, is a judge of men : since he esteems Sir John, notwithstanding his frivolity and dissipation, he must deserve his good o pinion, and that opinion is an honour and a praise— —
made me promise I would write : and the man, in the first transports of his gratitude, clasped
me so eagerly in his arms — -- -- -- -- How could
I avoid it? — A kifs was given — yes, a kifs. -- -- --
Was I to thunder -- to thunder for a kifs! No, no, I wished him a good journey, and success— — success, Victoria! — He went away thanking me — -
thanking me! -- -- -- -- Surely the man was half mad.
Adieu.
London — % 76 —
L E T
'* %■.. • -
*
L ^.5 J
L E T T E R XL •
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
WANTON Carolina! Barest thou thus profane the sacred language of love? — Beware, indiscreet girl, of the tender expression— — not the flights of a passion whole name is terrible
to the most intrepid -- Suffer not thy heart tp
heave — Sigh not out a minute in the deceits of thy imagination. — Beware, Carolina, beware of the bewitching sensations ever inseparable from the thought of love — Quickly do they engage the soul with alluring and unrelenting raplures — (^ickly do they warn it of its native dessres; Once in that delirious Seat of feelings and delusions, prudence struggles in vain — Indifference dies away amidst the fond temptations.
What heart will not run into wild extravagance when the head is possessed with a relistlefs passion I — Trifle not — Cease to trifle, Carolina, with mighty Love, lest the Spiteful deity force upon thee the reality of a mimicked flame — Make not thyself the sport of a delusive fancy. — Still be thou ignorant of the wretched, restless hours that wait on hapless love — Dread to number the minutes of thy existence by never dying troubles and anxieties.
Oh, Carolina / If even the certainty of being loved atones not for the Smallest injustice in the lover : if that injustice is torture to an enamoured soul, to what height of agony might not a hopeless passion carry thy extreme fenssbility!
A stranger! — Fatal was the day when thy eyes were struck with the lovely youth! — When thy ears listened to his graceful accents! When thy fond heart by infedious Sympathy led thee to
gaz"
"J
gaze, and applaud! — But — thou lovest him not, Carolina. — Though thy mind is bussed with his charms, thy soul is yet unacquainted with sseeplefe nights, and perplexing reveries — Thou hast had but a saint fit of love — indulge it not with reflection, or thou art undone — for ever undone.
Thou knowest not the treachery of love — Rouse not the innate wishes of thy soul — Lay not thyself
at the mercy of nature -- — Forbear to think, to
dream, to talk, to write of love — Stop thy
straying fancy — — Whither would it not wander? -- -
You tell me of Sir John Modijh — - ■ - Can diere be a more convincing proof you love not? —
Of Sir John! -- Oh, Carolina! never tell me
but of Frojby. Adieu.
Brent on half — 176 --
LETTER XII
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
Lady Pelham and I were just stepping out of the parlour for Soho, when a thundering rap announced a visst. My mother, having forgot she was not to be at home, Lord George Pelerjion was introduced.
Judge of my surprise, Victoria, when I beheld the lovely youth wshofe charming image, my heart had, in Spite of prudence, so constantly retained. It was So unforeseen, so unexpe<sted a rencontre, that my astonishment would have certainly appeared in an hundred shapes, had I not immediately called to my aid my fan, and my reason. Our eyes instantly met, arid his confusion, though carefully dissembled, was not less vissble than mine.
Since I came from my travels, said he to my mother, with a faltering accent, I have been lo much in the country that it was not in my power
to pay your Ladyship my refpeils sooner,
But
L 25 J
But, laches, you are going out -- -- -- -- -- -- I will nol
have you stay a minute longer. Lady Carolina would not forgive me, was I to deprive her of her pleastires.' -- -
Indeed, my lord, as it is a., mere chance, whether I shall get or lose, any pleasure, by staying or going. i’ll willingly venture a few mi mutes, if my lady thinks we are too Soon for Mrs. Cornely's -- -- --
Mrs. cornely’s, Madam -- -- -- -- r ’tis hardly eight
o’clock. —
We all sat down.
Are you just from France, My Lord? — — ~
Yes, My Lady. -- -- -- -- -
All life in Paris? -- --
In London we think So, and never was there a more glaring mistake. No people can excel the
French 'm the appearance of happiness- -- -- -- -- --
are less So in reality.
idleness, pride, and luxury display a brilliant show : ’tis. Ihe general Spirit of the nation, though each individual is weighed down with taxes, arbitrary laws, the stupidity of their priests, and the despotism of their ministers. Was it not for the noble and Spirited rcssstance of their parliaments against the impertinent authority of the pope, and the unjust and ambitious designs of the few wick .ed courtiers who are at the helm of administration, would be in as abject stavery as Venice or Vurkey —
You must own, My Lord, that their education is better than ours. -- --
If the French., My Lady, possessed more virtue, talents, valour, and patriotiiin, than we, I should be of your opinion, but as the contrary is palpable — -
What notions you have got, Lord Pelerjfon / How came you to think that virtue n necessary part of modern education? -- -- -- In what universi
L 20 J
ty, or academy, is that either thought of or practised ?~ —
generosity, courage, learning, and equity, are to be met with in England, they are the effe<ss: s, of liberty, which produces emulation, and leads to grandeur and beroism, or of a diipolition in our Organs, better adapted to rteeive an impreshon of the great, noble, brfublime. This is an acciden tal advantage we owe to n. ture. My i/ord, or to the wisdom of our constitution, and sufficient only to form a patriot, a general, an orator, ora man of sense: : for the accomplishments which constitute a fine gentleman, it is unreasonable not to acknowledge we receive them from dw/rr.
Are not almost all our people of rank and fortune educated in Paris?, -- -- -- -- Js not our vying
here with each mother who Shall best mimic the French, and turn common Sense into buffoonery, an unanswerable argument against you ?- —
That only proves, we have but few good heads amongst us. Madam, and I am heartily forty for it, ' -- -
Few! when the whole nation -- -- -- -
The whole nation, My Lady! I hope not— — the whole nation. Are not the people of quality the whole nation? Do not both the town and country take their fasliions and manners from us, and we from France? don’t we import from our neighbours our countenances and ccmplexi 4>ns, as well as our silks, laces, and ctmbrics? — Does not that confirm that there are very few good heads amongst us? What will become of our «ianufa<sturers, Madam, our artists, our merchants, our -- -- -- --
Are we to trouble ourselves about them? Is it Iftot for ourselves we dress, dance, and ufn costly furniture? Must we look frightful, and live mife rabl¥, that a few thousands four own countrymen
L 27 3
men may not starve? Can they do anything for us with taste? What matters it that those unborn plebeians are loaded with wretchedness, so long as we flutter at St. Jamefs, with gaiety, elegance,
and Splendour? — ■ -- -- -- What is the welfare of
our country, what are the lives of thousands, when opposed by fashion? — ■
I wish. My Lady, the parliament, would lay a tax upon every engujhman, who shalhearch for his manners out of England, and not be pleased with its produce. —
You are too much of a gentleman. My Lord, not to except the ladies in your motion for a penalty. —
Are not our ladies endued with beauty, delicacy, and sense?? need of foreign art when so much favoured by nature? Were they to value what we have at home, and Set the example of patriotism, who would not follow it? Who would not be the first to display his love and impartiality for an ingenious and relste<stable nation? — What an -- -- -
How do you like the French ladies. My Lord? — They have Some charms —
Have they? Well, that is Something at least France can boast of. — Some charms!
'Lhe French, Madam, have great parts, great qualities, and peiiiaps Some advantages over us — • But I wish the English— —
Sir, give me leave to ask you what ar those advantages over us? — ^
indeed. My Lady, you are so warm an advocate
for the French that I could not help complying
How I Lord Pelerjion knows how to flatter, and comply against his own Sentiments 1 Is not that a French way?
It will be the way of all the world when Lady Pelham -- -- --
C z
L J
Worse, and worse, My Lord.
1 think, My Lady, Lord Pelerjion is to be commended for his sincerity— —
think so, Carolina f —
Do protect me, hay Carolina. —
You have no need of her interest, Sir, a nobleman of your principles is an honour to his country : I was in jest, andyou have pleased me mightily. 1 am glad you deserve the good opinion which the public entertains of you.
How agreeably undeceived did Lord George appear! How gratefully he thanked my mother! — How unwillingly, Victoria, how unwillingly he took his leave!
When he was gone, Lady pelham told me Site wished Such a husband for her Carolina. — Carolina jtmiled, kisted her hand, trip to the coach, and
flew to Sole- -- -- o’clock! -- -- -- The day
Ijreaking upon me! -- Adieu.
London — 176 —
LETTER XIII
She same to the same.
I, Wish, Victoria, you would Send me the recipe of your art of pleating, that it might be Spread through the three kingdoms for the honour and advantage of our sex.
Lady Prefon says there is no living with me, I fet such a value upon you, at the expense of every
other individual -- She whispers now and then,
that I have lost several admirers I might have kept in my chains, had I not unseafonably spoke of my amiable friend.
If I am not more loved and refpe<fied for commending beauty and modesty, what will help me to love and admiration? And if men wish for the ©bjeilof my praises, am I not amply rewarded by
the
[ 29 ]
#
the assurance that virtue aud delicacy have not yet forsaken them? —
Would you appear but a week in London -- -- -- --
, But no — stay at brenton hau, for though Carolina has the inoft exalted friendship for her Fitloria, She has too her Share of vanity; and vanity, in Some circumstances, is not always a rational quality.
I verily believe I could Suffer you to enjoy an u niversal empire over mankind : But was your reig® to begin, whether I should not be weak enough to enter the lists to claim it, is really doubtful.
Who can flatter themselves to be great, noble, and without envy in every sttuation of life? Being neither a fool, nor an enthustast, I will not pretend to heavenly virtues with a mortal frame. — — A Ltxntx fxom Cumberland I
, What have you written, Victoria! — What have
I read! -- -- Am I not deceived? -- -- -- Is it then
true that Frojby was jealous? Jealous! -- -- -~
The purest heart is not free, in the polite world, from the suspicion of inconstancy : but Victoria, a stranger to art, distunulation, and flattery — The ingenuous Victoria, who never spoke but truth — who never acted but with reason!! — guilty the man who dares to call her stneerity in question! -- -- How ridiculousty profane!
If Victoria is not happy in the man she loves, who can expect to be So? Are all men So unjust and ungenerous, or is it a disease peculiar to a few? —
“Frojhy came, and falling at. your feet, declared his fears — ventured a doubt” — Ah! Victoria, had he had to do with Carolina — And you, sweet creature, did condescend “to listen — and to forgive.” - — -! have no patience — I hate you heartily.
Lcndm — 176 —
C 3 LET
V
[ 30 J
LETTER Xrv.
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
After three days hard travelling through dirt and show, I readied at last my native hah, without vapours or broken bones.
Must: Inot be immensely in love, Frederick, thus to have braved the Vvieather under its most hideous filapes? And it is the roving Sir John, who willingly exposed his delicate frame to the mercilest inclemencies of a tempestuous feason for a girl of eighteen! —
How you would laugh at me, was not the in chanting Victoria the o^e<st of So much heroism!
-- -- -- She exeuses and justifies all, the heavenly
maid! — More rationally might a man turn knight errant in the defence of her charms, than a commoner lose his popularity and virtue for the misera
bte honour of a place, or a title. -- What are
grandeur, riches, and distinction, to theunfpeak able pleasure of wandering over rocks and mountains, through valleys and forests, to afiert the sh periority of the mc exquisite beauty, the most exalted character that heaven ever farmed?
'What greater encouragement to forget the whole world, than to hear her voice, and gaze on her lovely figure? — A fenssble being can never villi— —
dream of a more satisfactory sensation --
a more engaging bliss— — from me tiie idea of any other happiness— — my detkes are centred in the sight of my Victoria, and the flattering hope of pleassng her.
Were you to behold Victoria, no longer, Frede
ricky would you defy the allurements of love. --
How quickly undone by the bewitching illussons surrounding her! — how suddenly changed into a v«iy lover! — ho’« delighted with the new emotion I
— how
V
fl
31 J
-- -- -- how vexed not to have felt it sooner!!
greater your wisdom, parts, and delicacy, the more rapid would her triumph be, and your defeat.
She has hundreds of refiftless charms to force her
t
empire into the proudest heart. -- -- Innumerable
graces constantly wait upon her, and call for our homage. Who could behold — who could listen, and not Submit, not adore 1 — impoltible — impossible.
II o’clock. —
The gay, the fluttering Sir John Modijh, who never once Scrioufly pronounced “I love you” - — who never courted pleasures, which were not graced by pride, fashion, or inspiredshy the enthusiasm of youthful blood — who would hazard both life and fortune to be sung, celebrated, and talked of — Oh, Frederick / cannot you restore me to the
identity of that vain, noisy, careless fellow ?-1
look for him in myself — but where is he?
If no longer Sir John Modi— — am I — Am I not really that very Sir John who could deny reason, laugh at morality, admire Hobbes, applaud bovingbroke, and soberly indulge in every folly? Love surely has not such a power, and were I once more in the airy regions of St. james’s, I Should recover from this fall.
There is a Talisman in these mountains, so powerfully oppostte to vice and modern taste — so forcibly attrailive to honour, religion and virtue — Why came I hither after an absence of fifteen years? — Curiosity, my Lord, curiosity— — severely am I punished for it!
Lady Carolina, the lovely Lady Carolina, northeast,, ceased to praise her Victoria — “She had every qua, 'iication, every beauty, every virtue, that €0” id noflibly be wished for.”
C 4 It
. ./
• %
1 32 J
r It was so mew to me, to hear one handsome woman Speak So favourably of another, that 1 longed to know if there could be such a treasure hidden in Cumberland. — I came, Frederick, and saw the terrestrial angel. — 1 knew not which was most to be commended, Lady Carolina for doing justice to her friend, or Lacly tdctoria for deserving her encomiums So well. — How generous Lady Carolina! but how fatal hvrgenerosity tome >
Awed by the sacred afpedf of virgin decency — conscious of my own unworthiness, I addrested at a distance my homage to the deity; but the same of my follies being between her and me, I was compelled to love — stgh — and adore in stlence.
dejeised almost to distra£i: ion, not daring to speak, to look, to offer my incense, I left the country in a moment of despair, and fled for relief to London.
I tried, I abused every pleasure -- Spite of my
most fertile imagination, the idea of Victoria still intruded, and damped the brilliant wanderings of
my reason- -- -- -- days without thinking -- -- -- -- -
no nights without dreaming of her -- -- -- -- Dead to
pleasure, though eager to enjoy it -- -- What a st
tuation, my Lord, what a wretched sttuation!
At last, certain of being a stave — adespifed stave, I came back to find fault with Victoria — to rebel — to break my chains.
I ©’clock.
On Monday last I went to brenton hall. — Frederick, how Shall 1 tell thee or my shame? — How weak, how disconcerted in the presence of beauty, when virtue, imprinted on every feature, gives life to the angelic form, and commands our re
fpecst and admiration I -- -- The intrepid Sir John
paid his devoirs to the ingenuous Victoria with a
faltering voice — a trembling leg -- -- -- -- a shaking
hand -- -- -- -
• •
[ 33 1 •
hand -- -- a lively red on his cheek — a stupid confusion
in his eyes — Could you have believed it, my Lord? — Could you have thought it postibk? -- -- ^ From such an height sunk so low! — Heavens! — <• and I have outlived th ungraceful minute.
By good luck, Mrs. Brenton attributed my un maniy carriage to theintense coldness of the day. —
You look not so well as you did, ?>\ryohn -- --
This climate will not agree with the softness of a courtier’s complexion — Sit near the fire — •
I drew so near it —
Not so near neither, you may endanger your health by so rapid a transttion from cold to extreme heat. -- --
Dear Madam -- -- -- -- -- 1 am better -- --
And I sat next to Victoria.
What do they fayin sr John? —
I think, Madam, it would be more d propos to tell you what they do not say —
Whyfo? -- -- -- -
They are so unnecestarily taken up with mighty
trifles, so busy about nothing -- --
How was Lady Carolina, Sir John? -- -- -
Then, Frederick, I became an orator, and, thanks to your charming Sister, was listened to with complacency and attention, •
How I longto See her, But the dear
girl delights too much in London : lhe will not
leave it for brenton hall -- There is no life here
for my Carolina. -- -
The conversation having lasted half an hour, to the great comfort of your distrested friend, Mrs. Brenton desired I would spend the day with them — Y ou may be sure I gave her not the trouble of another invitation.
I Shall be back in two minutes. Said Mrs. bren ten, and she rose to go out of the room.
C 5,, “There
® C 34 J
■ ** There is a fine opportunity for you. Sir johtfv' You think so, my Lord : but there is no such thing with Lady Victoria,, When I tell you there is no such thing, you may believe me : no body would have more readily Seized it, and fmce I did
not, depend upon it there was none -- -- -- no, none,
even for the word of Love.
How ean you prefer this retreat, my i>ady, to Londoti? — this retreat to this Society of your Carolina? -- -- -- rwhy So Solitary when So eminently
formed to be Seen -- -- -- admi -- -- --
I know Carolina has the highest friendship for me; but she has a noble heart, John. 1 should forfeit her esteem was I to leave Mrs. Brenton, whilst my presence can contribute to her happiness.
'— Gratitude is in the heart of Carolina— — what, virtues has not my discreet and sensible friend? — Am I alone with So many duties to difeharge, with an aunt for whom I feel the love and respect of a daughter? Would you think yourself alone. Sir,, with a tender parent ?r— —
What would you have me answer to that question, Frederick? Yes or No? —
“Neither of them, John, ”
Very right, my Lord, the No was so impertinent a lie,, the Yes such an unseafonable truth —
. Your notions are so refined. Madam, that few people upon earth — —
Refined! are they not in nature and reason?? — my Lady : but they are so little attended to in a world where opinion and convenience favour the contrary sentiments, that it seems to be tacitly agreed not to mind them at all : of course, there are very few Carolinas — very few Victorias — and still fewer men who deserve them. —
Your remark is too severe, s>\rjohn t the world is not so bad — ’tis a real misfortune to believe it so — .’tis an outrage botst to fociely and ourselves.
Principles,
[ 35 1
Principles, my Lady, contradicted by pleafush or felf intereft, have no effe6l on men Swayed by every blast of pastion, every caprice of the age : the distemper being almost universal. Shame no longer disgraces those who labour under it.
Virtue has few votaries, and reason is led and intoxicated by the most trifling whim or deflre. Fashion and luxury have driven men from every hold of honour, and honesty; and no pretext is left untried to justify the delirious flights of our heads and hearts. Modesty is called auliwardnefs, innocence stupidity — -- -- -- -
Stop, Sir John, stop. What an odious and despicable chara£ier you give me of mankind! Is it poillble that men should have deviated sofar from the dignity of their nature, as to restst the sacred voice of reason, and coolly spurn at morality
whose precepts are ingrafted in our hearts? -- -- -- -- -
Will not the negleil of these Supreme laws, fill Society with the utmost disorder, and diffuse a general contempt of friendship, justice, and probity? — — — ‘there may be men, indeed, whom a mean education has caused to err, and difiionour humanity —
Alas 1 my Lady, ’tis not of them I speak, They are generally obedient to the laws, and attached tq religion. Their vices are as insignificant as their virtues, being soon punished if guilty, and never rewarded though truly deserving. Tis the men
of rank, and fashion -- -- -- stis the learned I have
chara^ierifed.' -- Those only who enjoy wealth,,
credit and power, possesfing innumerable means to be vicious with impunity, readily gratifying their passions, and — r &
Mrs. Brenton. coming in with Frojhy, I rose up — Lady Victoria received him with a cheerful loot axid a half smile— — — —

L 30 J
<■ Mr. fro/by IS X.2W, and vv^ell shaped, and has a noble air; was he more degagee, and lively in his countenance, he might cut a handsome figure a Lady a la modvs rout, he talks well, and senfi bly at brenton hall — \i\xx. would hardly be intelligible anywhere elfe. 1 he man would do to perfection for the pulpit — he — But why of Frojhy, when my heart is full of Victoria!
Dear Frederick How She has composed my reftless Spirits by her affability! Divine creature!
How Sweet tempered, though virtuous 1 -- ^how
gay, though discreet 1 — How the day Slipped away!! — came resolved to hate, and to be free! • — What a monstrous letter! — Forgive, Fredericky the transports of a lover, who could write for ever of the beauty he adores. Adieu.
‘ V modijh hall — 176 —
LETTER XV
Lady Carolina Pelham to L dy Victoria
Nevil.
VI C T O R I A forgives lt, er Carolina, and though my expressions are pretty severe She “don’t know but Frojhy might deserve them was (he to consuit reaion in her judgement against him.”
Well I knew, Victoria, that love could neither annihilate, in your heart, the holy ties of friend ihip, nor render you unjust towards Carolina. I had no need t#any new proofs of the Iblidity of your principles, and greatness of Soul; I wrote to Victoria, and was certain Ihe would have challenged my stneerity, had I not Spoke what I really
thought. -- -- How then could I not condemn! —
’ But as you have forgot the past injuries, and frof by haspvomifed never to renew them, I am stlent.
Sir
.
[ 37 ] « ‘
Sir John has made his appearance at Brentotr hall“ “was polite and submissive to a scruple to ■ Mrs. Brenton : he killed her cat — played with her lapdog- -- -- -- her birds -- -- sung when desired
— and lost his money at piquet.”
He must: undoubtedly take with the old lady, or I am prodigiously deceive: : trifles are of the greatest; moment when done with grace, and a becoming Spirit.
“He did her the honour of the virtues so conspicuous in my Victoria.”
. How he flattered her pride!
“And Mrs. was heard to say. This is
M man indeed 1”
Was it a sheer or a compliment? -- -- -- Is it for
being like no body of her acquaintance, that he has pleased or displeased her fancy? — You should have given me a Sketch of her looks, and manner of her pronouncing the words.
“Sir John was gay, thoughtless, witty -- -- -- --
and neither noisy nor troublesome— — was cold but complaisant to Frojby — decent and refpe6sful to Victoria — and she has not to complain of one look, or expression— —
are amazed, that “a man can so easily ship from the extremes of libertinism to those of decency, and you question whether he is not all falsehood and perfidy, since such a change can only be the work of time, or the fear of universal desertion and contempt.”
Your observation, Victoria, mzy be just with rcspe<st to men naturally vicious, or hardened in corruption through idleness, habit, or stupidity : but they who, like Sir John, have been Solely led astray by fashion, youth, and caprice, arc quickly recalled to the paths of honour, discretion, and
virtue. -- -- There are always hopes of a man of
parts, Spirit, and ingenuity. -- -- 1 could give you
many
S 3m
many instances of people of rank, who are universally esteemed, though they — But to what purpose Should I justify ?>\xjohn? You have no intention to take him for a lover — cannot he do for an acquaintance? — If he seems what he really is not, why be offended at him so long as he is not himself??
John is to be commended for waiting upon Victoria with the badges of as many good qualities as he can pofiibly adorn himself with. His an homage he pays her virtues, and an evident acknowledgment of her superiority over him. — — Adieu, be happy, and no longer complain of my Silence.
“I will not forgive it, Carolina— —
must, Victoriay you must — I have nothing material to write — No, nothing material. —
“Carolina, Carolina! and Lord Pelerjion !” __
Will you not believe me, Victoria? Adieu.
London — 176 —
LETTER XVI
tl)e same to the same.
Lady Pelham has just lent an invitation to Lord Pelerfon to dine with us tomorrow,, said She to me, cannot be perfeilly known but by a familiar communication; one hour of friendly converse, of unaffeiled tittle tattle, brings them more effedlually to our knowledge, than ten years of formal visits >
Lord Pelerjion bears examination, and deserves my daughter’s good opinion, he will be welcome at any time, without the necessity of a compliment card. — I beg my Carolina will always speak to her mother with the openness of a friend, and diftinguilh her from the amiable Vu
toria, - —
A
[ 39 ]
toria. — If anything of moment — if any preference for Lord Pelerjion —
And She cast on me Such a piercing look, Victoria!
I imagine, Carolina, that my Sulsticions were not so ill-founded —
Dear My Lady —
And I Stopped, undetermined what to answer, so furprised was I at the unexpe6fed discovery,
Can Carolina hesitate to disclose to me the secrets flier heart! — Does She question my love for her? And tenderly throwing her arm round my neck —
What does my Carolina think? -- -- -- Has Lord •
Pelerjion made any impression on my lovely daughter? — If it were fois Carolina to be ashamed of her pafllon? — Is not Lord Pelerjion the man?
Such a good mother, Victoria!
I leaned my head upon her bosom, to hide a lilush, but was betrayed by a Irickling tear. —
Speak, my love, speak: : am thy friend. -- -- -^
How is it with thee?? —
Madam, I am ihis moment more af feisted by your exlreme generosity, than any regard I entertain for Lord Pelerjion, —
But at any other moment, how does he asset you?
I neither lo — venor hate him.
Hate him 1 Why should you? — I wonst have
you hate him, Carolina, — Come — sit down, -- -- -- -- --
nearer me — nearer still— — tell me all — {’U keep thy secret: depend on me.
Thea, then, Victoria, 1 knew not how to begin — what to tell.
’tis so trifling, dear mother — such nonsense— —, let me have that nonsense— — you grace it? — Let me see how eloquent and feeling my Carolina is. —
I smiled, and taking both her hands in mine — *
I accidentally saw Lord Pelerjion at the playhouse
—
[ 40 ]
house— — was in the next box -- -- -- he talked with.
o much sense- -- -- -- much wit, that I could not
help listening— — being pleased— — man ever fixed like him the eyes, and attention of your Carolina —
I kisted her hand.
When I came home, Lady Prejion, who had been with me to the play, observed I was absent and perplexed, tho’ I did all in my power to humour her lively temper. -- -- -- -- You yourself, my
Lady, remarked my being unusually grave and
thoughtful. -- -- -- -- -- 1 own I liked to call back the
voice, the features of the unknown man, and to,
muse upon him. — -- -- -- -- •! knew not his name, nor
did I see him again till his visit to you, —
You have seen him since: : -- -- has been here
often — Is he sensible of my Carolina's worth? — — Were there any sincerity in a man’s eyes, and expressions, I would make no doubt of his affection. —
Has he declared himself?? —
But he looks — ^ -- -- -- bespeaks so much to
the purpose- -- -- is so assiduous— — refpecstful^ —
so full of meaning when filent -- -- One day this
week, as we sat down to cards, he stole behind my
chair and softly whispered -- -- so softly!! -- -- -^ —
“the man who (hall please the amiable Ca.
. -- -- - Is this a sign he loves your carouna,
dear mother? -- -- --
And you neither lo ve, nor hate him?
Spare your daughter. -- -- spare your Carolina — ■
And 1 fell at her feet.
I ought to resent your unfriendly discretion, Carolina, — But — but- -- -- -- -
prested me to her bosom— —
choice is thy forgiveness- -- -- -- Pe
Jerjion know all thy value, and deserve thee! -- -
And Lord Fanjlydear mother, Lord Fanjly,
that
L 41 J ^ •
that man so lavish of his stupidity! — so presum ingly tedious! —
, A fine encomium, Carolina, a fine encomium indeed! —
So teasing! — so plaguing! — so extremely odious! -- --
Why don’t you keep to your closet, take a book, or have a headache, when he comes? —
Then must I be for ever sick or alone. — When is he not here? —
A hard cafe upon my word for a young Lady of your beauty and spirits!! -- don’t you marry
Lord Charles to get rid of him? —
Dear mother —
Come, don’t be uneasy— — see what is to be ' done : go and get ready for the opera.
As I was going -- --
4 Hear me, Carolina -- -- -- Be sure to leave at your
toilet, that loving face of yours. — ^ -- 1 will not
be deprived of my gay Carolina. -- -- Remember,
let me not seek for you when you are with me.
Are you not in love with Lady Pelham, dear Victoria, for being so good to her Carolina? — the excellent mother! —
what’s the matter, Lucy? -- --
My Lady waits for -- -- -
A light, quickly, a light, I must feal this letter. —
Scold me no more, sweet Victoria, for not having written to, you sooner about Lord Pelerjion : I had -- -- -,
Come, Lucy, sold this, and i’ll to the looking glafs -- -- Have 1 no flowers?
Here they are, my Lady. — ...
Adieu, Victoria, adieu.
London 176 —
. f ■
. / LI • '
'' LET
%
[ ] F
LETTER xvil.
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
I S death to doubt, but worse than death to i know we have a rival — a rival favoured by
Victor I -- -- -- -- Killing certainty : -
Alas! Why have 1 not the insenlibility of a stoic? Why did nature give me a soul lb pastionate
— fpirils so inflammable? — F ata'l present! -- -
What fortitude is not required to bear the sight of an'happy rival, wlien our hearts are filled and' torn by love, the fiercest of all passions!!
it not cowardice rather than magnanimity,
that prompts me to forgive? -- Could virtue hold
my arm, and triumph over my thirst of revenge?
— -- -- -- -- An. happy rival! -- -- Oh, Frederick /
Keep me from yielding to an ungenerous thought • — preserve my tortured soul from the abyss of despair— — me not be unworthy of thy friendship— — love 1 thou lively and bewitching passion, how we dote upon thee I — How charmingly thou enterest
our hearts! — - — how graleful thou art
to otir fenses! — how willingly we obey whatever
thou Gommandest 1 — An happy rival! -- - and my
hands are not yet imbrued with the last drop of his blood! — my eyes have not yet been feasted with the sight of him inanimale at my feel! — He survives my fury! — he is happy, and neilher of us is annihilated! — Rage and madness, come and prey
upon my effeminate fpirils. -- Set them all on
fire, and diffuse over lliem the oblivion of honour and bumanily. Let both the lovers share in my unhappinds, and plunge wilh me to the bottomlels pit of everlasting misery— — I see insulting joy sparkle in their eyes, content smile in their faces, and pleasure enliven every feature? Oh, Frederick!
\ [ 43 I, •
Tick! My virtue forsakes me; the image is too striking — the wound too deep — let me call for furies and distra<fiion.
Reason, reason! — Can reason oppose pafllon — argue with a delirious lover, and make him obey
her dilates? -- -- Thou shield of infenssshility,
away! — Encounter not the violent storms to which
my soul is a sport!! -.! -- -- Whatcanst
thou avail me? — Frojby shall die! — What have I said?? shall die! — ^ — What crime has he committed, which I would not be guilty of? Must Frojhy die for enjoying the supreme bliss of pleastng Victoria? — bias he stolen it from me? Was he not the first, — the fortunate first, who saw, and
adored? -- -- Have they injured me in loving each
other? — What right have 1 to trouble them — — > to rob them of their felicity? — If I love Victoria, ought I not to revere her choice, to Sacrifice my existence to her happiness ?■ — a felfish monster am I! — To have a desire that is not in favour
oi Victoria — that is not in favour of -- -- -- -- -
Wretched and unjust Sir John, and thou thinkest
thyself humane and generous! -- Alas I let them
love — let them be happy — let me not cloud the days of Victoria with sorrow and distress!! — the virtuous resolution, Frederick -- — let not thy
friend err, reason him into benevolence.' -- -- -
Adieu, ril endeavour to compose myself, and to entertain no thought unjustifiable by honour, Frederick and Victoria.
modijh hall — 176 — -
LETTER XVIII
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
I Had just stepped to my closet from breakfast, when Lord Pelham came to pay me his morning visit.
What
[ 44 J f
What news, brother? —
People running mad about the slamp a£l:! — The ftamp a6t! — that’s no news at all, my Lord. —
Ho w! No news! —
No. Can an V thing be right, and not be wrong, in London? How could we live without parties and contraditstions? Is not half the nation differently organised from the other? -- -- -- Nothing more
necessary to keep life and spirits amongst us. There would be as much said and written about my slipper, as about Lord and his enemies,
was I to fet it in opposition to that of the accomplished Lady Harriet st***'^*e, Political and religious controversy have their native Seat in Englandl and as our temper greatly partakes of the mutability of our climale, we are always ready to
engage for or against -- -- -- no matter which, so
we may but quarrel, ssander, or defame. Were it not for this charming amusement, we should be devoured by the spleen— — would be a vexation, a real evil. —
You are very merry, lister. —
Why should 1 not be so? Am I to concern myself about what I cannot do, or honourably repeal
when it is done? -- -- -- Was not Garrick unusually
great in Macbeth on Tuesday?? -- --
was not, ('arouna. Ever feeling, natural,, and sublime Garrick is immutably himself. —
How did you like the opera last night, was - it not immensely well performed? —
It had been so — but for the words and the music— —
do you mean, my Lord : the words and the music!! not that the whole opera?
The whole' opera! Foolish Carolina. Does it Ktakeany part of it to an enghji) audience? — Is it
not
0
L 45 J
it ror the dances, decorations, machinery, and ' lhe honour of England alone, that we annually
monopolise the best musicians of Europe?' -- -- -- -
Who ever thought, or said, if in their senses, that an unmeaning sound could please? — What are all Italian oyievzs but discordtoan English earr What fatisfailion can foreign music, fet to foreign words, give me? It may aflbrd inexprefllble raptures at
Rome, Venice, ox Florence, hxxt xi London -- -
How you talk, my Lord, when all the world is
enchanted, ravished with the melody of -- --
I am glad, Carolina, yoxx zxtfo xxii^xty fond of it : As for me, I would rather hear Jrtaxerxes, and a Handel, than Valentimano, and all the cafa rellvs of Italy. — /
Oh the barbarian, the b rbarian! A Peer of
England not a virtuoso! And my brother! -- -- -- -
Shame, shame, for Carolina — You dare to Smile — rout of my closet, out of my closet, or ihis moment recant — yes — you must recant —
Are you mad, Carolina? —
Thank you, my Lord — But tell me, my very wise brother, why, Spite of the hon tonne, you dare to think well of that English f Can they ling, dance, or perform like the Sprightly inhabitants of the Scnth? Were not this really the case, Should we •be such fools as to pay twenty times as much for diversions we can find at home r — What have you to answer? — Are we indeed such fools? Pray speak, my lord— —
ar, Carolina.
We are! -- -- -- And you are not yet out of my
sight! —
You are not then of my opinion, lister? -- --
Of your opinion! — Since you will not favour me With an immediate retreat. i’ll take a book, and speak no more. -- -- -
Whence
*
[ fi 1
Whence that contempt, Carolina, when lately you had so high an opinion of our Englijl) performances? —
I, my Lord? — you mistake — A Lady of taste
and fashion! —
So, with a splendid fortune, you would employ o native? —
No — in no way whalever. —
I thought that once Lady Fanfly —
Lady Fanfly / — his is not to be born — I will play and fing my favourite air Fate la Carita, if
you do not march off. -- -
Well, do: i’ll listen with lhe greatest pleasure— —
you really? —
I will indeed— —
you think to belray me to your opinion by m fawning compliment? —
My opinion! I never believed you differed from ie- -- -
another word, and I am to the harpfi ♦ord. — «
Let me lead you to it —
And you would have me play? —
Certainly— — —
please you then, my Lord. -- Pray -- -- — -
what tunc? -- where’s your colle: ion of Mary
hone and Vauxhall songs?? — of them. —
His Lordship could stand it no longer, he burst into laughier, and relired crying. What a girl! whal a girl! — Remember your commands.
LETTER XIX
The same to the same.
O S T of the company had already come jlyjl when Lord entered the room. I
beheld him, Victoria, wilhout a swimming head, or an aching heart. He presented me with a rose: :
smiled
I smiled, made a fine curtsey, and put it in my bosom.
Had you seen how the man’s eyes sparkled with joy at the distinguished honour 1 paid his flower, how he looked whenever I Smelled it, you would have complimented me for makshg such a noble use of A trifle.
Why Should we nor fet off a nothing to its best advantage when it may fill a lover’s breast with pleasure, without discovering our real sentiment?? “Lovers are so eager after the least
shadow of a promising possibility -- -- -- so diligently
watchful of a motion or a look” — — -
Well, Victoria, what then? -- -- -- -
“Only that Lord Fekrjhn eassly read in youf countenance how generous you was, and that’s a bagatelle you know. What could he infer from your peculiar attention to his flower? Nothing at all, to be Sure, men are So modest. So unwilling to be agreeably deceived, so averse to their own happiness” -- -- --
And so, Victoria, you think Lord Pelerjion Said to himself“ “girl loves me, ” and that to his rose he is indebted for the daring thought. — I am afraid you are right, for. Lady Prejion stealing k out of my bosom, I inconssderately ran after, and recovered it with an emotion I could not suppress. Lord Peletjlon darted at me such a grateful eye
-- -- -- -- -- and then coming to me...
How kind you are, Lady Carolina! —
W as not the man very indiscreet, Victoria?
Oh! my Lord, 1 am so fond of a rose: it
looks so gay at this feason of the year -- -- --
And then, turning to my seat, I left him to conssder whether he had not mistaken me.
I was not a little startled at his lordship’s presumption, and concluding that the; nost inflgni
fleant
t 48 i
f
ficant present, hatiu'ally, becomes of consequence, when given by a lover, I instantly gave myself the look, ot indifference.
At dinner we had words for reason, and llander for wit: None outshone in that eminent French accomplishment my Lady Courtly, and Lord Fanjly.
1 confratulated his Lordship upon his unusual sprightliness, and obligingly complained he had never befcre favoured me with so many bon mots..
How ftverc, my Lady! Was I ever different from myself?? came I to please today?? — — Is it in compliment to Lady Courtly you are so indulgent' to me r — -- -- -- -
In compliment to me! cried her Ladyship with a sheer — To yourself my Lord, to yourself you are indebted for Lady carolina’s encomiums on your brilli.int vivadte, and the delicate choix of your expressions- -- -- -- -- -
vous avez bien de la honte. ’tis true I have made the tour of Europe —
C ji un belle chose, my Lord, que de vdiager. How we improve by it! We talk, move, think so wretchedly before we fet off, but when we return, qvon eji charmant, amiable, & fiegant! — Was you crer at Venice, Lord Pelerjion?
Yes, my Lady -- -- -- -- --
Delighful spot! I cannot conceive how a young nobleman can think of retiring to the triste, en 'ftime, iff abominable London, after having once enjoyed les plaiftrs du Carnaval. This liland is the most shocking corner of the globe. Is it not
so. Lord Fanjly -- -- -- —
be sure, my Lady, to be sure.
You have been a Cicijbeo in Genoa, Lord Pelerjion? —.
Nf, Madam : I never had that honour. -- -- --
Not
[ 49 i
Not a Cidjbeo! unfortunate indeed t — How could you possibly spend your time?; —
I was very busy, my Lady -- -- -- - —
busy! d votre age, my Lord! Busy in Italy
-- -- -- Eela me pajfe. -- -- Pray what was you so
busy about? —
The study of manners, policy -- -- --
And it was for the manners and policy of a people you had no concern with, that you left England, and was not a Cicijbeo! Prodigious upon my honour. Was the study of mankind of greater moment than the waiting as a gallant serviteur upon a fine lady in Italy? — Did you study mankind. Lord Fanjly? —
Mankind, my Lady! Not I indeed — -
I thought so. -- -- What is that study good for.
Lord Pelham? — Mankind! —
It is a very necessary and useful study, my Lady -- -- --
Necessary, my Lord! — Pray no more of it;
. since it is necelfary, it must not be agreeable to
be explained. — Is it not so. Lord Fanjly? -- --
To be sure, my Lady, to be sure.
Lord Pelerflon, your fnuffbox has something peculiarly striking : will you give me leave to look
at it? -- -- -- how curiously designed!! —; —
admirably executed! — how charmingly inlaid! — Each part is a beauty — i’enjemble eji paifait. -- — Bought in Paris, no doubt? —
No, my Lady, 1 had it made in London -- In London! — well — I believe it — Strange how absent 1 was! — This Cupid and this arrow want proportion — no finejje in Venus's Smile — the garland is extravagantly loaded — what confusion in the colouring! — no part is finished — /’ ensemble el detejiable — (hall we go to cards. Lady Pelham? —
A s you please, my, Lady -- -- -
f thought, laid Lord Pelerjion, as he led me
D out
out of the diningroom, that frivolity and impertinence Should never have disgraced the quality of
England -- -- Unhappy land, where honour ard
discretion are no longer esteemed but by a few! — And you could escape the fatal contagion, amiable Carolina! — You could glory in reason and virtue, though graced with wit and beauty —
Less partiality, my Lord. — Believe me, though opinion commands the manners of ladies of fashion, it has no influence on their hearts — Generous Lady Carolina! — How worthy of being admired! — How — how I love you! -- -- -
Come, Carolina, said Lady Prejion, let us have some music. —
With all my heart. —
Lady Pelham that minute calling Lord Peler jion, Carolina trip to her closet, followed by the “how I love you !”
I sat directly to the harpsichord, but the “how I love you!”
How you play, Carolina! are you not ashamed? — Come — to it again — you don’t accompany me — I cannot ling. —
Could I help it Victoria! did he nol say, “how I love you !” — Bewitching words! — Prejion am I right?? —
quite — soso — now you are — What is the matter with you, Carolina? — wrong again. —
Ah! Did he not say “how I love you !” — London, 176 —
LETTER XX
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
though every line of yours, Carolina, should be for the future filled with invectives against Mr. Frojhy, rely on my forgiveness. I will smile at the lively strokes, and admire your wit.
Never
[ SI ]. ■
Never tyre when you tell me, I must cease to love him — must cease! — It is already done, Carolina, believe me, I love him no more.
Why Should 1? — Has he not invited me to hate him? — has he not bespoke my contempt by his behaviour? — has he not wantonly trifled with my peace, by forcing into my heart paltions I never knew before? — What had I to do with anger and hatred, when So charmed with his love and my own? — Was he to inspire me with them, Carolina, and to be their first objecst? Could not he be pleased without rendering me miserable? —
1 am Such a stranger to the new guests which have intruded into my heart, that I sincerely wish they would depart. Their language is quite unintelligible to me. — Alas! was I to learn it from Frojhy? — from Frojby! — Ah, Carolina, could you have thought it?
How often has he not sworn at my feet, he would love me for ever! — Nay, even yesterday he nad the very look, the very countenance, as the first day in which he declared his passion. He was cautious of difpleafmg, and fearful to offend.
— modesty, love and discretion, were beautifully blended in his air and manners. — Never was he so loving, so amiable, so delicately attentive. — I gloried in my lover, happy in his virtues, conscious of his love, and my power over him! — It was a dream, Carolina — a dream from which he
this morning awaked me. -- -- -- -- — How I hate
him! -- -- -- -- Why did he draw off the veil that
concealed^him from me, when the full view was to be So unfavourable and defirudfive! — Never would I have attempted to have freed myself from the enchanting error. So charmingly was I entertained
with it. -- Delightful deception! and Frojby has
destroyed it! — How I hate him!
D 2 I never
[ 52 ]
I
1 never thought Frofoy could be unjust — Is not injustice a vice, and the charadfer of a base soul? — Oh, Carolina! My pen drops from my fingers — ^ I must take breath.
Frojhy unjust! — — so low and contemptible I — and 1 love him! — No, no, Carolina, 1 love him no more, — I will have no foible which reason can upbraid me with.
Fatal knowledge! — One vice is linked to hundreds. -- -- When we blush not for one, are not
others ready to follow at the first call of passion?? — step from virtue — my head swims— — heart is torn — I will write no more.
I have wandered by myself through the garden and the little park, and though I carefully avoided every place that could recall the idea of Frjboy, I said, here he stole a kiss, and was forgiven — there he presented me a flower which he would himself have put in my bosom, had I not Snatched it from him — in this place he spoke of love, and I listened
to him -- -- in that, I answered his sighs, and told
I loved. -- -- -- Oiij Carolina I Then — then, he
was worthy of me. -- -- -- -- -- -1 will forget he ever
spoke- -- -- ever listened. -- -- --
I can neither fit nor walk. -- -- Alas!! painful to hate! -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Was my heart, my tender heart
to feel that torment! -- -- -- Victoria, to hate! -- --
Frojby lo be hated! -- -- — 1 am destra<sted! -- -- --
Detest love, Carolina, detest it, never think of it, fear the mischievous God : the pains he causes
are unspeakabie and not to be born. -- -- Avoid,
mistrust, listen not to Lord pelerjion like Frof~
by he may talk deceit -- -- look softness -- Smile
thy Soul into the belief he loves thee -- Solitude
adds to my deje6tion, and enlivens my sorrow— —
so happy -- -- -- -- today, so wretched!
What
[ 53 ]
What a change in a few hours !^ -- -- Unjust,
ungrateful Frofiy / — — How great his remorse,
if he love and repents! -- How miserable has his
indiscretion made me! — How many tears! Can he ever expiate for them 1 — in what esteem I held
him! — Oh! I love him no more -- -- -- -1 hate him.
if he loves and repents! — Carolina, i’ll relent '• — i’ll pity, him — if he feels but the half of my vexation, he must be pitied. — How could he support the horrors which will follow his return to
reason -- -- his return to love — his conviction of
having offended. — Shall I be merciless? — I merciless?? —! Carolina, Carolina! —
I was reading your last letter when Frojhy came in.
A letter from Lady Carolina?
Yes, Sir. —
W ill you favour me with a perusal of it? —
I was surprised at his curiosity, and sighed a negative.
I am very likely concerned in it. — You are not, Sir. —
If so, would you refuse to Show it me? —
Does Mr. trojhy doubt my word? —
My Lady — can you have any secrets which I may not know? —
My secrets are yours — would you have me betray those of Lady Carolina? — /
Mighty Secrets, to be Sure, since lam not to be trusted with them! — And you preser your friend to me, my Lady? —
Would not you despife me, Sir, were 1 to sacrifice my honour to your curiosity??
you hesitate, did I require it? — Aif^i to hoid the second rank in your heart — Lady Carolina to have the first! — Convince me She has it not by delivering me that letter. —
D 3 I refused — i
r 54 ]
I refused— — insisted, till at last, vexed to the soul, I reproached him with his indiferetion. Then, Carolina, he turned pale with anger, and flung out of the room exclaiming, “And I thought she “loved me! great God! and I thought she loved “me L ^is not such behaviour monstrous? — And I would love him! — No, no I love him no more — I hate him. Adieu.
brenton hall -- ‘i 76 —
LETTER XXI
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria Nevil.
Nothing could be more welcome to me, than to hear of frojhy’s caprice : surely the man has read my wishes, and I thank him for his seasonable impertinence.
What a difference between your first letters and the last! Should I have perused it five times over, but for the unexpected vivacity and passion with which ft is written? — Thy anger against is
quite a rarity to me.
“Can you jest, Carolina, when I am so distressed?” ?”
I to be sure. Why art thou so diverting in thy sorrow, so lively in thy exprelsion of it? — My compliments to Mr. Frojby : tell him he is my favourite, and that if he continues So charmingly Smart, I shall certainly take a trip to Cumberland, to enlist him under my colours.
You love him no more? — Did you not write V loved him no more? — well, out of friendship, ril take him from you — It were a pity hia
heart should not be engaged. give him a hint
of my good will, Victoria, and fail not to be steady in your “I love him no more.”
•• “Carolina J
■
L 55 J
“Carolina! have you not already Lord Fanfly, * “and i.ord Pelerflon? What need of Frojhy?” - — Never mind it, Victoria, i’ll manage them all.
-- -- And then, is it nothing to free my Victoria
from a troublesome lover? What would you think, were I to refuse my assistance when So necessary to your peace and happiness? — No more compliments, Victoria, no more compliments, force Frojby from brenton hall by a careless look, and a witty conversation, and send him to me — if you cannot wait my coming for him myself“
“am afraid, Carolina, you would have too “much upon your hands.” -
You are afraid! — and so you will keep him, though “you love him no more, ” Have 1 lost my Victoria? — my Victoria, who once wrote to me,
“how unjust to persuade a man he is loved when “we love him not! how base the pride that glo ries in deceit!” -- -- -- -- You smile Sweet Victoria,
then this is not your case, and by your wordr,
“1 love him no more, ” I must understand he is
dearer and dearer to you. -- --
“How foolishly you talk, Carolina /”
Is it thus Victoria Shows her gratitude to her Carolina! — How foolishly I talk 1 Must I have a share in your displeasure against Frojly? A fine return, indeed, for my generous offer to take him
off your hands! -- -- 1 dare say you would have me
write, that Frojhy was very indiscreet to ask a light of my letter, and were I to add, he was a fool to insist on what you would not grant, and to leave the room w ith, “and I thought she loved me! great God! and I thought she loved me !” Why the foolish Carolina, would no doubt be complimented with, “what an amiable creature 1”
I will not be that amiable creature, first, for tlif
pleasure your letter gave me. -- -
Very odd, Carolina, very odd.’*
D 4 Be
”, [ 5^ ]
Be it so. Secondly, for the kindness of Frojby, In favouring you with an opportunity of knowing him.
When so severe upon the foibles of men you love not, ” why So unconcerned about those of the only man you “do love ?” Is not my Victories happiness to depend upon Frojhy'% character? Must my sensible friend discard reason, and obey but love? Is Frojhy to be ail perfection? Would he were, Victoria, but he is a man — hisi curiosity is an insignificant whim, though it has caused you so much sorrow— —. -- as it may be a beginning to more important discovcries, let it not be slighted: : has too much discernment not to make a proper use of it." -- --
Let not your judgement be guided by your heart, when you think of Frojhy, but let it be always so when you write to Carolina, Adieu.
London — i yfi -- -- --
LETTER XXII
*, y
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.'
/
WHAT degree of folly may a man be brought to by a woman whom he loves
-- -- -- by whom he is detested? lord cfarks is
the man 1 intend to raise to that height of honour, if he still perfists in tormenting me.
Tired of telling him he could never please me,
I yesterday assured him, twenty times that 1 hated him. The wretch laughed, turned upon his heel, mimicked my anger, went away, came back, confidently Swore he loved — and was absolutely resolved not to believe me, after a fide glance he had Ventured to the glass.
Upon my Severely reflecting on the ridicule of his pride, he had the impertinence to protest I.
Should[
[ ]
should be his, since no man would ever be tempted to love me — Will you know, Victoria, the reason
he gave? -- -- Why -- -- -- “1 was haughty, im
“perious, and too fond of being courted, 'though “I hated the lover.”
Lord Charles trusts to my father’s will, and my, seeming indifference I 'Though he has often met Lord Pelerjion here, it never yet entered his head,
I had a heart, and that his Lordship might deserve it!
I really think I could love Lord Pelerjion out of spite, was I not already inclined to love him for himself. Two rivals, of dispolitions so different, must needs strike, one with pleasure, the other with disgust -- No sensations can ever be So rapidly
Selt — — Oh, Victoria! that fool, that fool,
what shall I do with him? -- -- -
I was alone yesterday in the library, reclined on a sopha, and musing upon a book, when Lord Pelerjion Came in — — How iny heart did beat! — Rise not, my Lady — —
How Soft was his voice!
Am I not to fear my company will deprive
you of a more agreeable amusement?? -- -- was
reading -- -- must I go? -- -- may I stay ?■ -- : -- -
I am glad to See you,, my Lord, and Lady Pelham will be here presently- -- -
Carolina -- -- -- --
How passionately he looked! -- --
Ido -- -- --
Was your lordship at court this morning? — —
I broke off the “I do, ” it So frightened me.
No, my Lady. I knew you vas not there,, and -- -- -
Tiien, Victoria the unwelcome Lord Fanjiy. rushed in— — that fool, that fool, what shall I do with him?
London -- -1 yfi —
Ds LETTER
[ 58 ]
LETTER XXIII
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
t
I Had been ten minutes on my way to ividte haven, on a business of importance, when the trusty Duval, riding full Speed, called the postilions to' stop, fley to me, and with an exulting air, whispered that Frojby had not been Seen yes tcrday at brenton hall, and that Lady Victoria appeared uneasy and chagrined. Ever ready to catch at the Smallest hope of a rupture between Victoria znd frojby, and love being the most important bulinefs of my life, I' instantly ordered the horses back, and drove to brentonaall.
I am glad to/ee you. Baronet, Said Mrs. bren presenting me her hand. We were quite:
alone : your company is a favour. -- -- --
You make me happy, Madam, in esteeming it so — Would Lady Victoria not think it difagreea -- ble -- -- -- -
Why Should I, when my aunt is pleased. with? it? -- -- -- -
No more ceremonies : .let, us sit down. -- --
How does Mr. Frojby:, Madam?
Was I not very ungenerous, Frederich?' -- -- --
'A half sigh escaped the charming creature.
You know not, Frederick, how engaging beautiful woman is when languor and anxiety are diffused over her countenance,., and with whatsen fibility a tender heart partakes of her sorrow. I could hardly, at that sigh.... from, exclaiming against the wretch who caused it.. How • it went to my soul, to see my victoria ahicaax and. disturbed! — I was so. moved,. that. though Mrs, Brenton was, at dinner, equally gay and entertaining, I had it not in.my povyer to put on a cheerful look.
Where'
L 59 J
Where has Sir John left his vivacity? -- -- 4
Forgive me. Madam, but — I am not happy —
How silly, how imprudent my answer, Frederick! But blunders are the wit of lovers.
these words Seemed to Surprise and awake Lady Victoria. She cast on me a compassionate eye, and Mrs. Brenton helped me to a bumper.
Drink, Sir John, drink your melancholy away; • it does not become your age. —
From that instant. Lady Victoria Seemed less penssve and dejecsted; but, spite of her endeavours to dissemble her inward vexation, a blusti now and then informed me She thought, felt, and was unhappy.
How far was She from discovering the true cause of my concern! What would I not have given for the presence of Frojhy, to have her restored to her former tranquillity! — I wished for that man, Frederick, I wished for that man, though every expression of his — though every look of hers had pierced my heart. I. detested myself for having come in hopes of a quarrel between the lovers, and would with pleasure, have laid down my life at the feet of Victoria,, o expiate the criminal expectation.,
10 o’clocsh.
What errors, Frederick, was I not led into by youth and folly, when I took appetite for love,
and caprice for sentiment- -- -- -- different the
pastion that now chains my fierce transports, and makes me shudder at the thought of having been unjust to the amiable and virtuous object of my
adoration! -- -- Heavenly girl! never will I offend
thee more — She must not know, Frederick, how much I love her — it would be a torment to her to see me miserable — let me save her generosity the feeling of my pains — What a hard talk! — How
to
, [ 6o ]
f' 1,
sh diltemble! -- -- -- -- Shall imperious love remain;
tamely on my tongue! — I tarn afraid, Frederick, my heart will break in the conssici — but. So the peace of my Victoria be undisturbed, it matters Got what becomes of mine.
You shall see my tulips. Sir John, (aid Mrs.. Brenton, as she left the diningroom; their variety will divert you.
Flowers are my favourite amusement- -- -- -- --
a courtier think there is any pleasure in cultivating them, and that a country life may be enlivened by the innocent diversion? -- --
Life, Madam, is only enjoyed in the country — I really believe we vegetate in town. —
Already in the spleen!! you are not in sarnest? -- --
I am, my Lady, I am indeed.. High life is a brilliant Stage profusely decorated with costly loys, where vanhy, interest, and folly play the first parts at the expense of reason and nature. Our heads only are at work, in Search of novelty and variety, while our hearts feel the horrors of vacuity in the midst of dissipation. --
Few pleasures, and no real happiness, are lo
be met with in a fashionable life -- '.['here. I never
found the agreeable liours 1 have Spent at brenton hall But, dear ivladam, let us goto the tulips. —
Mrs. Brenton Smiled, and shaking her head, Sir Johnd ^xxjohn! — —
Pray, Madam, let us go to the tulips, and offering my hand I led her to the garden, not daring, to steal a glance at Eidj Victoria.
Did I not say too much, Frederick? I was a shamtd of my indiferetion though of no moment ' — My heart was so fust — how could 1 keep filent?
I o’clock.
No flowers pasted unobserved: every o northeast was
anal y fed
[ ]
w
analysed and commended by Mrs. Brenton, and both Ladies were not a little diverted atiny repeated blunders — for truly I knew nothing of tulips.
Lady Victoria laughed so heartily, that seizing her hand —
i’ll be revenged, my Lady — and I printed my lips upon it. Sweet kifs' — let me not remember it, or I am undone.
As 1 knew Mrs. Brenton was extremely fond of music, I proposed to send for Lady Victoria's harp, and retire to the bower at the end of the parterre,
A good thought. Sir John. -- -- Send for your
harp, Victoria. -- --
The harp vs as brought. We went to the bower, and sitting opposite to Victoria, for I would enjoy •very possible charm, I was inspired by her divine touch, and the melodious Sound, with all the ten derness with which I sung the cantata of Apollo and Daphne.
Lady Victoria so. feelingly exprelted the complaints of the God, that lost in raptures, I ailed my part — I forgot myself— — Frederick. To me the most trifling word, or a£lion of Victoria, is a source of delights. Let me expatiate upon •ach grace, each Smile, each motion. — Oh! had I no love to combat — Help me, Frederick, to conquer my inclination -- -- Inclination! -- -- how
weak the word! — ^ -- -- Set my passion in its true
light — Tell me ’tis impostible to please — tell me that Frojhy — .no — be filent. Adieu.
modijh hall — 176 — •
LETTER XXIV
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
This day looked so ravishingly tempting, after a week of rainy weather, that Lady
. Velham
* ' * * • > y # •
, [ <52 ]
Pelham was easily persuaded by Lord Pelerjion, an Kir James Parker, to take an airing in Kenfmgtoi Gardens. Our conversation was at first general but upon my expresfing a curiosity to know an ex j otick Shrub, and Lord Pelerjion offering to satis]
I it, we were left a few steps behind.
This Shrub, Madam, grows between the tro
; picks; it -- -- -- amiable Carolina, let me not loss
this opportunity of confirming to you what m) eyes, my behaviour, my faltering words, and I broken sighs, have so often told you. — No man
ever loved with equal passion and sincerity.
Your most humble servant, my Lord. —
And I dropped a low courtsy.
Is this your analysis of the Shrub? — I thank you for your complaisance, and am no longer curious. —
I Stay, my Lady, stay — forgive my telling I love
you — ’fis the first time I have felt the power of beauty — none but Lady Carolina
And ft) you fancy, my Lord, that Lady Carolina deserves to be complimented with your first raillery?
Make me not the most miserable of men: -- -- -- - —
talk me not into a. hatred of myself- -- -- the
difdainfyl look, —
How Shall I look, my Lord? Must I smile, and receive your gallantry with a grateful sensibility?? — I will notshave you, be, the most miserable f men. —
'Cruel Carolina:! —
Cruel,, when I desire you to. command my aif. and countenance! — Cruel, when so generous !- — How dear I pay for having seen you j — To love,, and to be despised!! — Pelerjion! —
Upon my word you ast charmingly, my Lord,, and of all things Hike the “Wretched Pelerjion W' — As a party is now forming among the beau monde',. to perform a few plays, I wish you. would join.
them.
[ 6j 1
them. — ’tis unkind, my Lord, to bury such conspicuous talents : I Should not be the last to ad^ mire, and do you justice. -- -- -- -
And the pains I endure are X fubje6t of mirtst to lady Carolina! she can delight in adding to them by an inhuman sheer !- — ohe laughs at the vexations fly causes!!
go on, my Lord,. I am: so fond of the pathetic — a fev/ more moving exclamations,, and— — enchant me. —
So unmercifully gay !^ —
So artfully dejected !- —
Artfully dej.eisted, Lady caroutm! — Can you think that perfidy is in. my heart — that my tongue ean dislemble?
No, no, my Lord. You are sincere, to be sure— —
have just a notion— — irony is feigned,, you. love me. —
I love you! that’s a good thought, my Lord, against being the most miserable of men..” ^ — How happy you are in your ideas! 1 am glad, however, you found it not sooner.. then j should have been deprived of the “wretched P“ “!” thzt z&diqd me so much. — I thank you for the seasonable discovery.. — wa's at fucsta loss how to console you. -- -- --
Be good, charming Carolina; cease to banter,, and frankly own you love me.. —
What need of it, my Lord? — Will your imagination sail for a word? -- can’t it help you to
the idea I pronounced it?
Can you reshfe me your heart,. Lady Carolina? -- -- -- --
How should I, when you ask for it?
Could you have a heart, and not give it to th enamoured Pelerjion?
No, no, to be sure— — —

-; [ 64 i
^ And we joined Lady Pelham.
Pretty indeed, was 1 obliged to return sigh for sigh, and love for love, to every daring, idle fel lov/, who is pleased to honour me with a declaration; and prettier still, was I to single out one, and discard all the rest!
To presume I mull “love him” because he “loves me !” But will not the Same reason do for his rivals? And stiall yowx Carolina be unjust to twenty, or love them all at once? — The man is surely out of his fenses, or has a mighty opinion of himself“
“loves me vdth such a passion.” Did I
desire him to do so? -- -- “Carolina has a heart.”
— What then? Must it surrender at the first Summons of his Lordship? -- -- -- Did you ever hear of
such asturance, Victoria? —
“How could the loving Carolina be so extreme“ “politic, andunfincere? —
Experience, sweet girl, has taught me to mif trust my eyes, my ears, and even the approbation of my heart. If we lose sight of reason, pas iion will take the lead, and Lurry us into every extravagance preposteffion is prone to. To let a man in high life know our affection for him, is visibly the genuine offspring of folly. I will therefore keep behind the veil of seeming indifference,
. that I may not err in my judgement of the man who Shall have the power of making me happy or miserable.
So many unfortunate examples at Court, in London, all over England, warn me to be prudent. Sincerity with a Frojby ma occasion no grief, but in this depraved Spot, we cannot take too much precaution against the vanity of men, .and the insidious foibles of our hearts. —
“And my Carolina thinks,, stie will keep Such
a strict
* 4
[ «5 ] ■
a ftricst guard on herself as not to be understood —
Understood! that is a trifle, Victoria. I give Lord Pelerjion leave to understand me, but let him never be certain he does, till I am pleased to convince him of it. —
“If at last Lord Pelerjion proves undeserving“ “my Carolina, or out of defy air carries his “incenfe to another Shrine. —
Well, Victoria, HI Seek for another lover --
that’s all.
And carolina’s reason will have such a power over her inclinations ?” • —
self-love, Victoria, felf iove will come to my aid, and my heart Shall be free. My rank procures me innumerable resources against a too serious engagement. So many diversions employ both my head and my heart, that I cannot possibly six long upon the same thought.
Carolina is not to be chained by a look, or a declaration. — She will prepare against the storm, and provide for every contingency. Adieu.
London — 176- —
LETTER XXV
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
I Tell thee, Carolina, thou lovest not. thy
soul, though tender by nature, and animated liy fancy, is not tuned to the moving notes of love.
— Cold as deformity, there are no raptures in thy words, no fire on thy tongue, no pantings in thy bosom— — Pelerfon is the choice of thy taste — > not of thy heart — Him thou preferreft to thy other admirers, as we do wit to stupidity, and modesty to assurance— — is not the man nature formed for. thee
[ 66 ]
thee — Thou canss: reason!! — tell thee, Carolimf thou lowest not.
Ah! — Would I were as indifferent! — What an evil is fensibility, that fatal spring of our miseries, when exquisitely affe(sted by passion!
A nothing is a torment to a lover a doubt
may make us languish under all the racks of fear and despair, and a thoughtless smile on a rival drive us to madness. Many times have I suffered the extremity of sorrow for a look, which expressed not an answer to my feelings — Oh, Carolina! — thou drelleft to please— — talked to be admired — thou art still gay and easy— — thee, thou lowest not. Adieu. -- -- -- --
Brenton hall — 17 6 — X
LETTER XXVI
Lady Carolina Pklham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
Throw away anything that you may be busy about, Victoria, and should even frof by be on his knee recanting, and crying for mercy, do not spare him : turn him out 1 say, and listen to me.
Lord Fanfly had been above twenty minutes in my closet, without my having taken the lead notice of him, and I was barbarously playing, and fingingthe Babes of the Wood, to force him out of my light —
■ Can you be so intent upon your harpsichord, Lady Carolina, while 1 am here? —
My Lord, you are not fond of music this morning; but, may be, I play ill. Do I? —
I do not say so neither : you play well enough. Well enough, Victoria!
I beg your Lordship will give me a tune or two,
that
r 67 ]
that I may improve, for I am ambitious of attaining perfeistion.
You stand in no need of me for that. Lady
Carolina. —
For what then, my Lord, do I stand in need of you? —
You astonish me : did I say you did? —
Pray, my Lord, be not over polite: tell me wherein I fail j which is the fault I must mend? — You will make me mad. Lady Carolina. —
Then he rose up, and took such long, noisy strides, that I desired him to sit down, for he made my head ache. —
'His very, odd that I cannot please you. —
You think it very odd, my Lord? —
To be sure my Lady. After two years constant attendance, ryot to be more advanced than I am in your affe<stion, is not that very odd?
What qualities did you rely upon to please me, i»y Lord? -- -- -- -- -
What qualities, madam! — What qualities! — ■ He reddened, and his eyes flashed with indignation. —
Are you in earnest ?• — Am I to incur your contempt for loving you? Where is my crime? — “What qualities !” that’s very strange — Had I neither natural nor acquired ones, must I be despised and ridiculed for the want of them? — I thought Lady Carolina chose fitter objeffs for her mirth. —
My Lord, as you have shown some sense in your answer, I wifti you would never put yourself any more to the same trouble on my account. Cease to plague me with your love, and you no longer ftiall complain of my satire— —
you! what an expression!! —
it new to you, my Lord? — Must I tell you, again, and again, that I hate you? Is there Such a
pleasure
"[ 68 ]
pleasure in being told so, that you will expoft yourself every day to the repetition of it? — f
And you really hate me? —
How you talk, my Lord! Did you ever doubt it? -- -- -- --
The tendered lover! — ^
"Hie moll tedious! —
Could I suspect I had a rival; —
What then, my Lord? —
He started up in a passion, and staring wildly at me —
I would rather die an hundred deaths than let — no : no body so long as I live Istall possess — Carolina, Carolina! do not make me frantic— — me not into despair. Forgive, forgive if I have offended — forbid me not to love you — say but you do not hate me —
And the man, Victoria, was at my feet, pref fmg my hands, and bathing them with tears. — This sttuation, my Lord, does not become you j rise, be composed, and let me have no more of these new fits of passion, it you would not have me avoid you for ever. —
So coolly insulting— — —
down, lord Charles, and let us reason. Did I ever give you any hopes of pleasing me? Did I deceitfully encourage you to love me? If no what have you to reproach me with? Why do you perfist in loving, when convinced of my unalterable indifference?
Oh, Carolina! how little are you acquainled wilh the fenssbility of my heart, and the violence
of the passion you inspire! -- --
Though sure, Carolina, beyond all doubt, of your haired and conleinpt, could pride conquer the enchanting delight of loving you? — I do not wish it might. — let me love you, let me wear for ever the chains you gave— — me not of that
fatisfaffion —
[ C J
fatisfa^ion — - et me hope your heart may still be mine. — -
How eloquent love rendered him, Victoria! He had such a deje61: ed countenance, such an air of despondency, that I felt some pity; and had it not been base to diltemble my dislike, I Should have left him in his pleasing error. —
My heart cannot be yours, my Lord? accuse me not of cruelty, and strive to forget me. —
To forget you. Lady Carolina! —
Yes; let me entreat you to forget me, and to seek for happiness where it may be bestowed upon you. How many ladies, more deserying of you, would lif sten to your vows, and reward your constancy! — Talk not to me of another love, dear Carolina. — Send me not in pursuit of an imaginary bliss, when the reality is only to be found with you. — Why that obstinacy, when you know 1 can never love you? Do not deceive yourself, my Lord :
I tell you, sincerely, lean never love you. Change, my Lord, change — call me unjust, and ungrateful; seek in society a diversion to your love; fly my very steps; See me with horror; hate me, and be no longer a stave to a blind and hopelest ' passion— —
cruel your counsel, Lady Carolina! how miserable it makes me! My heart bleeds at the thought of it — abuse not the empire my passion has given you over me — To change! — to hate I — to be restored to my liberty! — How is it possible, when I even delight in my sufferings?? not that sacrifice, dear Carolina, or ask my life with it. — Your indifference must Subfide one day — — my pains will melt you into softness— —
never: depend on it, my Lord. — Tear me from your heart, fuppress your passion, and See me no more. — Rob me not of my trantjuillity
by
L 70 J
by your deciaratlons, your complaints, and your hopes. -- -- --
Lady Preftm coming in that minute, I was happily relieved.
Are you not surprised, Victoria, at the infatuation of a man, and his manner of expresting himself?? — shall I keep him from me? -- Can
love elevate an ordinary soul and inspire it with such uncommon fire? — Did he not speak with delicacy, and threaten with fierceness?? — passion begins to terrify me — Dear Victoria, what shall I do? Advise, charming girl, advise— — he fufpeil Lord Pelerjion — \ will not think of it.
London — 176 —
LETTER XXVII
'Ihe same to the same.
Be not afraid, Victoria, that your Carolina will turn a coquet. Of all the ridiculous characters which women attempt to assume, that surely is the leasl adapted to reason, and delicacy of sentiment. Though I treat with so much levity the man I love, accuse me not of a real propensity to be unjust and unlincere.
You do not approve of my reserve to Lord pe ■lerfon: “it may betray him into the belief I am ‘‘ false and ungenerous, or humble hini into the “certainty, that I have a very slight opinion of “his morals and chara<ster.”
Your ingenuity, Victoria, though admired by me, would do no honour to your discernment, was you living anywhere but at brenton hall. Judging of every heart by your own, you wouldbe exposed to perpetual mistakes. Every hour of the day would bring a new occasion for wonder, and the fexclamations, “is it so 1 — is it possible!” And at last my Victoria, unwilling to disgrace herself

L 71 J
Self by a borrowed air, would return to Cumberland, or fashion her expresstions and countenance, were she to stay in London.
Gallantry having stolen the look and garb of love, and chased him from polite circles, every man thinks it inconsistent with manners, and good breeding, not to compliment a Lady with the tender of his hearl; and to such perfection is carried the “mimicked sensibility” ” it can hardly be diftino uished from a real one.
o
Rank, discretion, and virtue, cannot free us from these unfeeling a6iors of sentiment; they wait upon us with a tender look, an unwearied attention, and an air of fadness, inseparable ifrom a true pastion : bul as they only ail, the delusion vanishes long before their part is'over.
Some there are So flushed wilh pride and ambition, as to disdain to attack, but where the strongest reliftance is to be expelled. They feign So admirably, they are such masterly adepts in lhe art of pleasing, that a young lady, unless guarded by the fear of a mistake, and a firm prepos feflion against them, might very easily be deceived by the artful infpirers.
Virlue, dear Victoria, virtue would make a very poor desence against a cool and Skilful lover, ever watching over his prey, and ready to Seize ' upon lhe least advantage, which a ra fld emotion, .an eye swimming with languor, the sudden eolouriag of a cheek, the unusual panting of a bosom, a faint repulse, or a faltering voice can fumif him with, had she no Suipicion of lhe lempler’s falsehood and perfidy.
How dangerous to believe! — how imprudent not to fly!
The dangers attending ingenaity are too great not to Srighten a woman’s weak and tender soul; that amiable quality may appear amongst friends,
'but
O L 7^ J
'. but must; always be discarded in the presence of 2 lover.
Vivacity and carelessness are better arms, and oftener crowned with success. A man, uncertain of the imprellxon he has made, keeps within the limits of decency and respecst : the fear of displeasing, sets bounds to his knavish flatteries, and wished for familiarity: he is a stave, fettered by an indifferent mein, and seeming neglecst, when a loving look would, at once, give him both liberty and power over his mistress.
I believe Lord Pelerjion has honour and humanity. -- -- What then i Have not all mankind the
same character in appearance? who dares openly to deviate from the air of probity? — Who can see into the inmost recesses of the heart? —
How dexterousty intriguing — how boldly unprincipled are the generality of our modern lovers! What laws do they not violate for the enjoyment of their criminal deflres 1 What corifiderations do. they not laugh at, and despise 1 — How many too credulous women -- -- -- Write no more of ingenuity,
Victoria. Keep that phantom at Brent on hall raise alters to its honour, and may you never repent of the homage you pay it!
London — 17 6 -- -- -- --
LETTER XXVIII
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
YO U wonder how I can languish away my days in fruitless Sighs, when Pleasure, the generous friend of youth and beauty, would smile on my wound, and heal it, infallibly heal it, in
London! cease to wonder, Frederick -- -- -- Hove. —
Let these words, “I love” justify me to thy reason— — thy reason! Canst thou understand the language of my heart, and not call impertinence
the
r 73 ]',
the charming failles of nature? — Unhappy man |
I pity thee, and scorn thy haughty reason!
dshy apathy is poison to thy life — thou art in a perpetual death, though thou numbereft thy days
-- -- languid as a modern play, thy soul has not
one slight which I can admire, or extol.
All my senses, enlivened by passion, are loll in
the delights of a bewitching error, and thine --
To be born! — and not feel! — What malignant spirit curled thee with that falal indifference? — —
Thou art free from the pains of sensibility!! — that advantage compensate for pleasures thou enjoy eft not?
The sight of Lady Victoria, for ten minules, Frederick — for five minutes only, chases Sorrow from my heart, melts me into raptures, and gives life to the tedious hours I pass without her, - —
When Sue talks, I Interpret her civility into regard, her expression into Sentiment, the ■ softness of her voice into love — I argue every motion in my favour; and if I touch her hand. Smell the Same stover, water her favourite tulip, or ssng a song She likes, I laugh at thee, Frojly, at all the world — i
I am then wholly wrapped up in happiness and th oblivion of my misery. — shouldsi: thou afie what charms such sensations can have, I answer thee love, for too faint is the tongue of man to attempt the description of them.
Modijh hall— — —
LETTER XXIX
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
IN spite of all my precautions to avoid a tete a tete with Lord Pelerjion, he seized a critical minute, in which I had no company but my Canary bird. He trod so close on the steps of Lucy,
E that
/
L 74 J
r
that I had no time to contrive a pretext for not receiving him.
To be revenged, however, of his too hasly appearance, I assumed a half difcontented a r. —
I see, my Lord, you have attained a great proficiency in iht French mznntrs, by being at once both a visiter and your own introducteur. — ■
I Shall plead guilty, if love that made me an intruder, obtains not my pardon from Lady Carolina, don’t justify one indiferetion by another, my Lord; the attempt would be ridiculous and vain: am I to forgive, when the excuse adds to the Sank? —
’tis not in me that the fault lies. Madam : I see it in your eyes; ’tis from them it proceeds. Had you less beauty to subdue— — wit to attract, you would not complain of me. —
And ’tis extempore you make these pretty compliments, my Lord! ’tis a pity to lole them upon me, for they are really charming. I beg you will reserve your vivacity, and eloquence, for more important occasions— — you for the court, or the opposition. Lord Pelerjion? —
How he stared, Victoria, at the unexpected question— — ■
am for neither, my Lady : so long as we are ruled by the best of Princes, there will be no reason Sora difference of interest— —
then is meant by an opposition?? —
little more than —
But would not the world laugh, were they to know I am Speaking of politics to the amiable Carolina! — How ridiculous Should I appear! — — The happiest moments of my life consecrated to - anything else, but Lady Carolina! — And I am in
love! — And I adore you! -- -- -- --
Nobly expressed, upon my word. I admire
your
[ 75 J
'S
your facility and prefenee of mind. How came
you by it, my Lord? -- -- -- -- —
ril tell you, my Lady. -- -- -- --
He rose up, and taking my hand, led me to a pi er - glass —
How! is it to that glass, my Lord, you are indebted for your amazing sprightliness?? — —
not to the glass, but to those features, that Shape, those lovely eyes, and that graceful countenance, which you see in yourself- -- -- -- --
pretty indeed. -- -- -- Well, I should never
have guessed that. Tell me, my Lord, is this gallantry your own, or an importation from the continent? If your own, I beg you will put it in fashion — the manner is so new — Why did not you
favour me with it before? -- -- -
I could almosl wish. Madam, I had never been
forced to discover it. -- -- -
Since you repent, my Lord, the benefit is yours again; take it back, I will forget I ever had it. —
Lady Carolina, cannot you be serious?? -- -- --
you have me serious when you do your utmost to diyert me? I am not ungrateful, my Lord; my gaiety is a proper acknowledgment for
your efforts to amuse me. -- -- -
I have wandered over France, Italy and Spain;
I have seen, I have conversed with witty and beautiful women — never was I tempted to love. — I see Lady Carolina zx. the play, and my heart, my, till then, faithful heart leaves me, and I am unhappy.
O! Carolina! Carolina! -- -- -- — : —
Do not mind me, my Lord; go on wish your soliloquy- -- --
pleasing your chearfuiness, Lady Carolina, were I free! — How much more delightful now, if the efseist of a mutual, unreserved inclination! — Of all the men, who do Lady Pelham and me lie honour of a visit, none is more entertain
E 2 ing,
[ 76 ]
Ing, or more welcome, than Lord Pelerjion. — No thanks, my Lord, I am sincere: but I wish you would now and then give your conversation another turn. Raillery, however excellent, ceases to please when we don’t know how, and where to drop it. -- -- -- -- -
Raillery! — Why miftruss: my honour? Is Lady Carolina to be entertained with Sentiments she does not inspire? Are not her rank and virtue a defence against falsehood and gallantry? Is not her beauty a Sure arm against hypocrisy?? could tell her of love, and not feel it You are absent,
charming Carolina — out of a generous pity
listen— — me I may hope -- -- -
Yes, my Lord, you may hope — not to displease by discontinuing a discourse I choose not to hear. — ^ Was not my reply very heroic, Victoria, when my heart beat So Strongly in his favour, that I could hardly dissemble its indiscreet motion? Poor Lord Pelerjion! how chagrined and deje6ied! — A tear
started' -- -1 law it. -- -- how dangerous that tear,
Victoria! I turned my head, and rising up, went to the window, and trusted to the wind a Smothered sigh— — -- -- resuming my former spirits,
I came back to my chair.
Lord Pelerjion leemed lost in thought, but starting as I drew near him —
I should be very sorry, was my passion to give any uneafiness to Lady Carolina. — Forget I spoke— — will speak no more. — You will not forbid me
to see you, my Lady? -- -- -- --
I am not Such an enemy to myself, my Lord, as to wish to be deprived of your company. My Lady Pelham honours and esteems you. —
Oh! would Carolina but return my love, how happy should I be in Lady pelham’s regard I It were my utmost ambition to be esteemed by her, rmd Lord Pelham. — *
This
[ 77 J
This declaffation, Victoria, I thought worthy or a reward, so throwing carelessly my hand between our two chairs, I gave him an opportunity to lay hold of it, and raise it to his moutst. —
Pray, my Lord -- -- -- -- -
Always severe, Carolina!
Always forgetful, my Lord !• — r How I adore you! —
And he fell on his knees. —
By all that is dear to me, I adore your— —
you not, just now, giveri me your word, my Lord. -- -- -- -- -
I am with You, can I remember it? —
Fearing that my Silly heart would at last soften me into attention, I changed the conversation, and kept it on So many different topics, that notwithstanding all his endeavours to get it back on the favourite one, I heard no more of the foolish god of love.
Lord Pelerjion saw well enough he did not displease, and I dare say went home pretty well satisfied that the gay Carolina was not infenlible. — I will never encourage a tete d tete. An hundred ideas, which disturb us not in company, crowd into our heads when alone with a lover, and may reverse thelirmeft resolution. The necessity of giving a lie to one’s heart, is a constraint not to be endured. Add to this the indiscreet attention, and the yet more indiscreet sighs, troubles, and agitations, of a man we love — That Lucy, how I will Scold her!
London 176 —
£3 LET TER
% [ 78 ]
LETTER XXX
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
WHEN thou fpeakeft, Frederick, in the
house, I admire thee : -- when in the
benevolence of thy heart, thou helpeft the friendless man of honour, I commend thee : but wlien thy pen writes of love, as thou art then no longer ray sensible Frederick, I heartily laugh at the Iha 1 dow thou offereft me of thyself. Thou art in love
what Alexander was in painting — a mere dunce to be ridiculed by a feeling boy of fifteen.
Thou wouldfthave me, since I choose not to leave Cumberland, spirit away my passion for Victoria, with the lively Miss Fllifon. — Wilt thou never remember that I love, and that a great beauty without as great virtues, cannot asfes: my heart ?-
The hand of Miss Fllifon I wish not — her ruin I will not attempt. -- -- 1 slant have the ill na
ture to impose a sigh, a fond expression upon her. ■ — I abhor the fashionable sport of undoing virtuous maids — curses on him wsho betrays shem into infamy. —
Court not, fayeft thou, court not Lady Belmour, for ’tis a most villainous sin to succeed a fool in the arms of a lady. — Thou art surely a won strous delicate fellow, Frederick : was this lav of thine ftri6hy observed by mankind, women would not thank thee for having established it.
Lord Belmour is a fool, ’tis true; but do’fl: thou know what a tempting creature his lady is? Do’sl thou know:, ^ she is all youth, charms, and sensibility; and would fm.le thee, even thee, Frederick, into fierce desires?? thou know she is the life of Cumberland, and that I would question[
[ 1 ^ -
tion my passion for Victorid, were I not dead to the fedikstion of her smiles?? only could rival
Victoria — (he does not -- Frederick, keep to thy
indifference, but let me love. Adieu.
LETTER XXXI
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
I Will write to you, Victoria, with my usual sincerity : expert no mercy from me when thy head rules thy heart, or this takes a flight from the former. Thou hast been by turns, these few days, the flave of each, but though it flatters my pride to find my Victoria is not faultless, I will furnish thee with an antidote against it.
Passions have their degrees, let fools say what they will, unless we are totally deprived of he faculty of reasoning, by Sleep, stupidity, or madness.
Love and hatred rise, by Slow progressions, to the Summit of infatuation, and either of these passions may be rooted from our hearts, when leafon is warned of their existence by feeling and reflection.
Let a sentiment be ever so pleasing, it is hourly contradi6led by pride, or self interest, which constantly point to us disgrace and Sorrow, the natural effeefts of a false step, and a blind prepossession. To say that these misfortunes are not inherent to every Sentiment, and that mutual Jove is exempt frorn them, is to contradi61: expe perience. This proves that We are formed of contradictions; that no passion whatever keeps long in its meridian; and that it is both possible, and probable, we are often deluded by not strictly Searching our hearts, and granting too much to nature, and not enough to reason,
E 4 I know
»
- L 50 ]
I know how agreeable it is to be deceived. de lufion is the life of a sensible lover; it takes up his time, his thoughts, and its charms, almosl realised by imagination, are always welcome to his raptured heart. Hence the many oversights and the erroneous credulity which lead to disappoinlment and regret.
Fiuman wisdom, Victoria, has Seldomer checked Sentiment than Submitted to it: ’tis our fate to te sometimes lulled by nature into a forgetfulness of the means which efientially tend to our own happiness. When reason is thrown into confusion by the tumultuous spirits forcing their way to thelicad, to fill it only with the idea of a favourable bliss, it helps not to extinguish the fermenting fi; e, and deliver the soul from the violent gales of a tempestuous passion.
happiness is not to be attained by. giving a loose to prejudice. Let us not endeavourto enhance the value of a sensation, and add t our security by a false csteem of the cbjetsts before us, lest we Should findlhe realty fall Short of our sanguine expedlation, and be forced into a contempt of ourselves.
The pleasure of being beloved, is the highest a mortal can enjoy; but as it is not^at all times to be secured, through the inconstancy ingrafted in cur tempers, I wilh we could feel it moderately, that we might not be in olved in the affliction following an irreparable loss. In poslcsfing we ftiould be ever ready to be deprived, and prepare against making ourselvcs miserable for what is not to be retrieved. '
2 o’clock.
Thou, my Victoria, thou surely feeleft that these reflections are truly adapted to thy own situation, and that I have Set in their true light the dangers impending on thy passion for Frojby.
Soothed
C 8i ]
Soothed in the calm of a full assurance of his love, you will not lose one thought about his indiferetion 3 and though he be unjust and unreasonable, he must have no failings, since their principle is his tenderness for you. Unfufpefling girl! You frighten me. Your candour and ingenuity will lead you into an imprudent tranquillity of mind, from wshich if one day forced to arouse, it will be to pafs immediately to the most exquisite confusion and anxiety. You will despise and hate yourself for having trusted so much to your heart, and the seeming good qualities of your lover.
Nobody would have mankind more perse than I : but as it is not in my power to adorn every individual with my Victoria's virtues, why Should She be a victim to her generosity?? men as they are, not as you wish them to be, and dare to examine the heart of Frojby.
Confider, Victoria, how naturally men slight what comes with ease, that the difficulties of please ing make them languish in unspeakable defiresi They delight in obstacles, and to remain in suspense.
-- -- -- 1 tell thee, art and indifference will
command their adoration, whilst: ingenuity and tenderness are Shunned and uncourted. It is a foible we inherit from nature, Frojby has it in his heart as much as any man in the creation.
Sir John modijf^ remark, that he would reckon it a prodigy were you both as deeply in love now as you were some years ago, is not so absurd. How can we answer we Shall he neither unjust nor ungrateful? —
You make love, Victoria, the study of every day, the bufiness of every hour, when it should only be a diversion: : exert your utmost fenfibi lityto embellistiit with the gayest colours, and never once reste£l: it is the work of your imagination. Awake not, sweet girl, from the agreeable dream:
E 5 continue
m
^. [ ]
continue in the loving fit : be for ever lost to every other idea than that of being beloved.
5 o’clock.
Does love, once fettled in the heart, grow too powerful for restraint?? it not be erased without tearing a part of it? Are we unable to overcome, and are the efforts of reason vain? No, Victoria, they are not vain, though attended with mighty difficulties. What are we to aim at but our own felicity? Shall we be satisfied with the Shadow, when we can attain the reality? What is an hour of rapturous delusion to years of happiness? Are we not strengthened by this consideration, and enabled to triumph, and dispel the cloud which intercepts the light, and obscures our understanding ?■ ■
love, and to be always loved! fine talk, indeed I Set that apart, Victoria, for your dreaming minutes, but let it not be listened to, when awake : never flatter yourself that projbyd.zs no fault, because he appears to your fascinated eyes to have none. He has his Share of weakness and depravity inseparable from humanity. Trust not, Victoria, to the outward form of a man. — I am displeased at frojby’s proceedings : they seem too strongly tainted with injustice. and tyranny. Be emboldened to judge his behaviour, and the charms that surrounds thee will dillblve. lov6him more and more, if he deserves thee, but hate him in proportion as he may have deceived thee.
Courage, dear girl, Shake off the yoke of prepossession, and let Carolina no longer reproach thee with a Angle sailing. I hate for having made me discover one : yes, thy partiality for him is one, and a very great one. — Poor Sir John I — so partial an observer against him! — Indeed thou deferveft not the love he has for thee. Adieu. Landon — i -- -- -- -- -- -- -- —
LETTER
C ^3 ]
J
LETTER XXXIL
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
<
Gruel friend! Severe Carolina! Spare thy reflections so long as my heart is pleased in being deceived. -- Why do’ft thou force thy reason on victoria. on Victoria, unwilling to listen
to thee?
4
Too few are the days of happiness— — many
the days of misery- -- me then, Carolina,
let me enjoy the flattering illusion— — me be deal to reason, that mortal enemy to love and ima gihation.
To think! to doubt to compare! Were it not
a folly lo pul lo that left the pleasures of love
pleasures which annihilate every other sensation, and entertain the soul wilh perpetual raptures? Felicity is to be felt, not defcribed it is lost when we
t\\\nk. — Carolina! never say that Frojhy may possibly
prove unworthy of me. -- -- He loves — he has
no fault when he talks of love. — my memory is then dead to all past injuries.. If he offends, I
rave myself into hatred of the man -- if 1 lee
sorrow in his looks, he no longer is guilty — I flgk and love again.
O
Brenton Hall — 176 -- -- -
LETTER xxxlif.
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady victoria
Nevil.
He came, Victoria! he came with conquest: in his looks! he fluttered, smiled, and courted, and it was not Carolina, who animated his soul, enlivened his eyes, and .graced his countenance! Will you believe it? but why would you
«ot?
[ 84 i
not? Is there any other event but Frojby*% ingratitude that could Surprise, and render you incredulous? Yes, yes : you will believe the wounds I give are not incurable, and that I may lose the liaves my charms have fettered— — will, Victoria? And you dread not my displeasure! You will dare to humble my pride — a vs^oman’s pride —
her darling passion I How presuming? -- -- -- -- -- Can
friendship be So truly disinteresled as to forgive when one’s beauty, and power are called in question I lose a conquest!! — I Shall be told it is
possible- -- -- a conquest * -- -- -- Have a care,
Victoria.
“Who is the audacious mortal who has fled “from my Carolina? Lord Pelerjion?
No.
“Lord Fanfly ?”
Yes : he himself is the run away flave : he who was to “turn frantic, to despair at every frown of the charming Jarolinaf* has forsaken her, and basked in another’s Smiles.
I
It wag not enough for him to have mortified me by an unexpected desertion, he yesterday paid his devoirs to a young, beautiful widow, the idol of file court, and the glory of the age. I had the distnai light of his attention to her, at Lady fref icrds. -- -- -- -
Lord Fanjly had the mofl: sanguine hopes, for he out did himself in being Ids than usuau Jy tedious and impertinent. He Seldom trusted himself out of a raonofyliable, and his great and affecting eloquence was all in affidui ity, a dying look, and a perpetual smile of ap piobation. He played a Sew rubbers with Lady ivalgrave, and Sat next to iier at Supper. Had the man made choice of a less accomplished L dy in his ambitious attempt to interest my vanity, I Should shave rejoiced, at his seeming inconstancy: : by
hia.
[ 8s ] V
his applying to Lady Walgrave, I lost all hopes of being delivered from him.
Lady Walgrave is the fcqurge of fools, and her company the best chosen in London, I never saw wit more happily united with beauty, candour play with a better grace than in her lovely eye. How could Lord Fanfly flatter himself with Lady Walgravfs countenance to raise my jealousy?? She condescend to feign a pleasure which she feds not? how foolish his plot when he imagined I should regret him 1 I laughed at his uncommon presumption, though heartily vexed he had not Singled out a lady, who, prompted by interest, or the honour of a title, would have endeavoured to free me by securing him to herself. The man must be naturally formed to be wrong with the best intention of being right, fmce, even in his revenge, he has not the art of choosing a proper and infallible vveagon.
A letter -- from Lord Fanjly — — Is not a pen
in the hands of a fool a Satire upon reason, Victoria? — What can he write? — tvould it weree his letter of Conge! — i’ll see.
To Lady C arolina Pelham.
In vain have I searched this fortnight for a beauty I could love. — A heart which has once fur rendefed to Lady Carolina, has no feelings for another — fly alone can charm, enliven tedious uniformity, and smile away the troubles of a domestic life. How hard my fate! — dear Carolina, will you still continue insensible— — deaf to my sufferings?? — ■
will adore you with unremitting constancy- -- -
will love with such fervour, that you shall not have one minute to think on an indifferent object'
'— shall hear but of love — of your beauty — — » of my transports. My Sancy will wander but to divert and please you. Delay not my happiness, oh thou my Carolina — say but thou wilt not hate
and
L ■ C 86 J
I ' and I arn at thy feet swearing eternal love — Oh,
I carol.na! my heart will be in an agony till thou
condescendeft to write I am no longer indifferent I to thee. — Say but lhe word, and 1 am happy,
i. Fanfly.
J"
Is nol this a pretty billel, Victoria wrillen
by Lord Fanjly! I am amazed — How came he by the lively expression?? — there must be
two souls in that man — he talks — he writes -- -- a
wondrous reverse this — his tongue gave me a dislike to love — his pen — Lord Pelerflon is coming — I hear him — away with Fanfly. Adieu.
I
End of the First Volume.
THE. ’
MISTAKES OF THE HEART r
O R,
MEMOIRS
O F
Lady Carolina Pelham
AND
Lady Victoria Nevil.
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS.
PUBLISHED 3y
M. TREYSSAC de VERGY,
Counsellor in the Parliaments of Paris and Bordeaux.
At feeling hearts Isling, nor e ser tnifs : he game.
Prior,
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II
DUBLIN:
Printed for James Potts, and Thomas Walker,
Booksellers, in dame~flreet.
M DCC LXX
%
r
t:
V
*
/
i
}
i ■
I
I
/
I
i ^ '
i
1
'!
i
■ i
I
r
i
fi
M E M O IRS
O F
Lady Carolina Pelham
AND
Lady Victoria Nevil.
LETTER I.
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
Lord Fanfly was an hour with Lady Pelham yesterday— — hour folicitingon his knee, that I might ablior the day in which 1 was born. How elfe could it be that he obtained my mother’s consent I a mother to whose will I would Sail a voluntary vi6fim rather than displease, rather than make her unhappy. Believe me, Victoria, I would, readily forfeit my own existence could it save her but a tear; I would Spurn the struggles of nature, hasten to annihilation, and smile away the sufferings of my heart.
Did you know but half the obligations I owe to Lady Pelham, your surprise would cease, Victoria;
you
"L 90 ]
you 'Would even wonder at the weakness of my expression— — Should be a monsler were I to harbour a thought, an affe<5fion, which She would not both approve and delight in.
Knov/ that in the bloom of her days, when youth, rank, and beauty displayed all their enticements, and ravishingly pointed to gaiety and
dissipation- -- love and pleasure followed
every step, applauded every grace, indulged every deftre; — when the most amiable men courted her smiles, and gloried in her esteem— — all who thought, looked, or spoke, tempted her into a compliance with the foibles of nature and fashion — know, that Lord Pelham and his Sister, the happy Carolina, were the foie objects of her care ■ — she forgot She was young and handsome, to remember solely She was a mother.
Ho w many Sacrifices neceltarily made to her tenderness for us! — how many troubles generously overlooked to help our heedless infancy, correct vitiated nature, and perfecst our education! — —
The night in which my father died -- -- -- a night,
Victoria, never to be rooted out of my memory — he Sent for Lady Pelham, who, lost in sorrow at his having seemingly breathed his last, had just left his room. Struck with the unexpected message, (lie started up. Seized my hand, and flew to him.
What a sight, Victoria! -- -- -- -- Though but ten
years of age, my heart, grown old in filial love,
felt all the agonies of the distressful fcene. my
mother with a wild eye, unsteady step, and grief
in every feature, sunk upon the bed— — -- -- -- -- --
by the warmth of her tears, he raised
her hand to his lips. -- -- --
Death draws near, Julia — I already feel it — ■ To die! — and I was so happy in thee — so happy in my children! — Thy despondency is torment — I know all thy worth, Julia — and I must leave thee! —
Lady
[ 9* 1
Lady Pelham, dead to all emotions but those, of' certain misery, opened her lips — the words expired on her chilled tongue.
I have but a few moments to remain with thee, Julia — Thou, my Carolina. -- -- -- -- -- -
Then a cold fit invaded every nerve — I thought, Victoria, I had lost the best of fathers.
Death, resumed he with a feeble voice, and struggling with the faintness of his spirits— — longs for his prey — Julia, I hardly see thee — soon will 1 see thee no more.
He Shed a few tears, sighed, and pressed her hand to his heart,
Julia, by my will she fate of Carolina is fixed.
■ — Lord Fanfly is the husband destined for her — she must be his — my word is given — promise it Shall be kept. -- -
Promise!! my mother, starting at the
unforeseen request, promise! — Ah, Pelham! -- -- -
What have you Said? — What have you done? —
Depend on my love for thee to see Carolina happy — HI direct: her heart agreeable to thy choice — but will lay it under no constraint— — Should file be a Slave when 1 owed thee to my liberty? —
My father seemed to confider, to relent — his eyes, melted with tenderness, were fuccefllvely fiixed on my mother and me. — He strove to smile,
to tender us his hand — to utter a recantation --
vain efforts, Victoria, my father was no more.
Judge now' of Lady pelham’s charatster : refledb on the circumftanees, and six, if you dare, the degree of love and gratitude my generous and tender mother ought to inspire me with.
London — iy() — •
LED.
. 92 ]
Irv
L E T T E R II
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
WHAT alterations, dear Frederick, does not love cause in our manners and principles, when the object that inspires it rules over a feeling heart! What vices, what virtues, are not fuccefllvely esteemed or neglected according to the noble or ungenerous temper of the woman we adore!
Nature confidently launches into every contradiction, and astumes, as her own, the genuine
features of honour or dilhonefty : -- -- -- -- strenuous
afiertor of her primitive rights, lhe reasons, combats and ever comes off with success.
A man’s soul is diflblved into that qf his mistress;; eagerly adopts her sentiments, her passions, and her charadfer. ’ I'is a delirium not to be
cured by reason- -- -- -- - is no accounting for our
implicit obedience to the call of beauty : it overwhelms the understanding, Seizes on every organ, and allows neither time nor power to question its authority.
i hardly have a look, a thought, a desire, which are not in open defiance to my own heart, whenever I visit at brenton hall. Each word, each motion of Victoria, heightening the charm of her beauty, and adding to the native lustre of her virtues, Iny eyes and my tongue are at perpetual enmity- -- -- a perpetual loss for an expression adapted
to my love and her dignity. The sport of paf sion, pride, fear, or delicacy, I am by turns under their empire, fubjected to their laws, or in re'&ellion against them.
I have attentively watched for a fault in her fiiape, for an error in her mind, for a vice in her
soul.
L VI J
•
Soul. — I have not one reason to exclaim againsh Jove, not one motive for wishing to be free.
Were Victoria imperious or disdainful, I would
v/ithsland the utmoff power of her beauty -- -- -- -- 1
would -- -- -- but the discreet girl gives her lovers no
temptation to injure her virtue: she erafes the
leasl propensity to evil from their hearts. -- -- -- -
How artlessly does she compel desire to die upon my lips, to fly from my countenance! Her modesty— — engaging must that quality be which can betray me into a diffidence of my own merit, soften the fierceness of my unruly spirit, and so highly prepofless me in favour of her sex 1
Mufti then reason solely after the mode of Vic --
toria — wait for thinking till she has thought -- -- --
Sail in with her peculiar humour? -- -- Is not this
fiavery the most grievous in nature? — Shall I exclude myself wholly from my own being — give the
He to my opinion of evil and good -- -- -- -- differ in
nothing from another’s j udgnient! -- -- May I not
claim from my owii deserts a right to her esteem,
to her love! -- -- Mufti expert it as a Savour !■ — »
and I Can still Submit and a lore! -- -- Oh, Frederick, what a shame, What a shame i -- -- --
How happy is it for the honour of humanity, that the miftreltes of kings, popes, and mighty conquerors, were never tempted into the sublime folly of being the founders of new religions I
What impertinent tenets might have prevailed, had not a Roxana, a Morazia, or a Pompadour, disdained to impose on men, and cheat them of their reason ?• -- -- -
so persuasive gs beauty? Who can long oppose its eloquence, or resist its entreaties? W here is the man who would not prevent the most: secret wish of the woman he loves? Are not her delights • his foie and supreme happiness ~ — displeasure his most excruciating pain — her tears — — w!io
would
L 94 J
fi.’
''would not melt into all the tenderness of love, at the sight of a tear trickling from the lovely eye — Who would not immediately Hop it with a “Com“ “— 1 obey.”
Were my aulhorily for a few months acknowledged, how grateful to mankind would be my passion for Victoria! Each smile Should difiate an
edi<st in favour of liberty each kiss diffuse a
general conlent — all would partake of my joy and be happy in my love.
modijh hall, — 17 6 —
LETTER III
Lady Victoria Nevil lo Lady Carolina
Pelham.
TH E counsels of friendship do but glance on a fascinated fancy, whilst the most trivial circumstance gives reason its nalural Strength, and deprives passion of ils usurped aulhorily. When the soul is nol beset wilh ils wonted desires, lhe senses are no longer suffered to teach, to delude and to dicstate.
I ordered on Thursday last some patterns of silk to be brought me. Mr. Frojby admired one, protested that the design was entirely new, and that the colour would fuit my face to a miracle. I was inclined to believe him when Sir John looked at it, then at me, then at Frojby, then silently sat down. This he likes not, said I to myself, and 1 gazed on those that were upon the table.
None of them, my Lady, said Mr. Frojhy, comes
near the beauty of lhe former -- -.
I made no answer, and continued to gaze.
Sir John carelessly took up a pattern, laid it on my shoulder, as to judge of its effe6l, and with a Smile placed it before me.
This
L 95 J
This is his choice, thought I -- -- -- it shall be
mine, and I presently fixed upon it.
I whispered my choice to Sophy, and today have I appeared in the silk the fihile of. Sir John had pointed out to me.
I put it on with uncommon alacrity, and for the fiist time took a delight in dressing.
Sophy told me I looked more charming than ever
-- -- That gown, added she, is an honour to Sir
john’s taste.
Conscious I had encouraged her to say foi had not the heart to chide her, though a blush made its way to my cheek.
On entering the drawing-room, Mr. Frojhy was struck mute at the sight of my drels — Sir John saw but me — his eyes spoke of Jove, not of gratitude.
He took no notice of my dress, Carolina -- -- -- How
he would have disconcerted me had he ventured one glance expressive of the favour I had done him I -- -- -- -- How his discretion pleased me .....
Mr. Frojhy was absolutely out of humour. The fawnings of my lapdog were no longer agreeable
— -- -- -- -- he darted a look of anger at the glass' '
reflected me to Sir John, and could not patiently hear the rushing of the silk.
In the evening, Mr. Frojhy presented me ah handful of flowers. Sir John a ssngle violet: I placed this in my hair, and negligently threw the others upon a marble Slab.
Mr. Frojby proposed whiss: — I had the headache — Tea minutes after Sir John proposed a
game at quadrille -- -- -- -1 accepted it. Fidele was
very nigh falling a victim to the displeasure of Mr, Frojby. The poor creature leaping on his knee at the very instant I rose up to go to cards, he flung him almost breathless on the floor. I shrieked — Sir John flew to Fidele, and taking him in his
arms.
L 90 J
arms, by the tendered: caresies brought him life again.
Senlible of his fault, Mr. Frojby made an apo Jogy — and Slyly congratulated me on my recovery. — 1 was displeased -- -- -- -- -- Spare thy comments.
brenton hall — 176 —
L E T T E R IV
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
HO W exquifile is an unexpe£led happiness!
— — Never talk of pleasures offering themselves at our first call — these are hardly fenfalions
, -- -- -- these can hardly sweeten lhe bitter draught
of life.
It was but nine this morning, when the trampling of horses, and the noise of Servants, announced the arrival of lord Pelham from New market. Uneasy at at so early and sudden a return, I immediately slipped on a gown, and ringing for Lucy, hurried to my dreffing room.
Carolina! Carolina ./ -- Where are you, Carolina? —
Here I am, dear brother -- -- -
And stepping towards him -- -- --
So unexpectedly, and at nine! you frighten me, brolher — are you well? —
And I offer’d him my cheek.
On thy account only, Carolina, am I come to town sooner than I intended. I would not keep from thee an hour the knowledge of what I have done to make thee perfectly easy and happy.
Had I been acquainted with thy anxiety, long ago, Carolina, had I freed thee from it — long ago had Lord Fanjly ceased to disquiet thee — no more,
filler, hast thou to fear his persecutions. i have
seen him~he knows thou zri free, and that thy
hand Shall be only bellov: ed by thy heart.
Brother!
i 97 j „
Brother! -- -- -
’twas all I could say, and I faintly leaned my head upon his bosom.
My eagerness to please thee, Carolina, has defeated my prudence. -- -- -- friendsliip has betrayed
me into indiferetion — forgive -- -
How can I repay So much goedness and generosity— — —
never mentioning it, Carolina. — This morning Lady Pelham and 1 will Settle thy fortune, and put it into thy own hands, that no unforeseen event may cheat thee of thy natural right to the dispofal of thyself— — hate conslraint on a noble heart — be free, filler, be free as thou deferveft.
To Lady Pelham we are both indebted, thou for the end of thy troubles, 1 for the pleasure of
obliging thee. -- -- Idiis letter I received at Keiu
rnarket.
Frederick.
Lord Fanjly has followed you to the races. His intention is to ask your conlent, and fix the day of his marriage with your sister. Believe me, your consent will be death to Carolina.
jul. Pelham.
Affront not thy mother and me, Carolina, and he laid his hand on my lips, with unnecefi'ary thanks — We know thy sensibility.
Fie then begged a disti of chocolate in my own apartmeiit, and turned the conversation on thee and Sir John Modijl).
'Though vexed at thy indifference for Sir John, he is extremely pleased with the effeisl: it has upon him. He commends his diffidence as the greatest: esfort of human virtue, and almost thanks thee for thy love to Frojby, which has so nobly displayed the charailer of his friend.
F We
♦
L 9« J
We had not dwelled long on the praises of Sir John, when word was brought that Lord Fanjly was with Lady Pelham.
His love for thee, Carolina, justifies the prepos terous behaviour— — he entirely relied on my
(Jenial -- had he not made a Second attempt to
obtain thee, far from deserving the pity I cannot refuse his disappointment, he would have Sunk, below my contempi -- -- Slop the lear of gratilude,
Carolina — though it be an honour lo thy heart, it is an insult to my virtue.
1 never doubted your friendship, brother -- -
but in this age Such uncommon goodness- --
uncommon excellence when Souls are So degenc' rated -- -- don’t frown upon me. -- -- -1 am filent.
Soon after Lady Pelham came to partake of the joy She had caused — Why tell thee, Victoria, what
She did -- -- wh'^t She Said — have I not already loid
thee lhe is a mother?
London 176 -- -- -- -- -
LETTER V "
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
Frederick, I -- -- -- -- -- -- no: thouwouldst: Sayl
am again turned fool. Thy reason- -- --
devil take thy reaion -- it disconcerts me — Why
made I thee the confident of my passion for /rv
toria? 1 was aituredly bev/itched there should
have been no correjstondence between thy cool head and my inflamed heart — their language is absolutely the reverse of each other — Thou readeft the chara£lers of love, but knowest; thou how to
^xpvess them? To thee they are folly -- tome
ieme and wit. -- -- Come hither, Frederick -- -- —
victi^ja
V
[ 99 ]
Fictioria will teach tshee to feel; in the funstiine of
her Smiles thou wilt become a man -- -- -- She will
look at thee -- -- -- then, Frederick, Shalt thouun
derftand me.
LETTER VI
Lady Victoria Nevil, to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
I’ Know not, Carolina, how it is with the hearts; of men, but surely none was ever more obscure and intricate than that of your Victoria.
I am afraid our sex are too heedless -- -- too
sanguine- -- -- full of airy notions, to posfefs
the Soul polite and enamoured men have complimented us with — What affinity can that Soul have with the foolish work we perpetually Set it upon?
-- -- How can it participate of passions?? --
heavenly fubllance Slave to the circulation of the
blood! — -- -- -- Nature, Carolina, so Simple in her
operations, never thought of the many diiserent and conrradi£iory attributes, which we are told necestarily enter into our composition— — men no
more than women have to boast- -- -- that as it
will, I will unfeignedly open to you that part of mine they call a heart, which they have made the Seat of feelings as well as the repolitory of our secrets, though I am sure it is the most talkative, ia difereet and inconsistent of all confidents.
Mrs. Brenton, to di'vcrt me from a gravity, which ftie remarked sat very unbecoming upon me, proposed sending an invitation to several ladies and gentlemen of the neighbourhood.
chuse your company, Victoria, and write the cards in my name.
I sat down — I began.
ve
don’t forg’et Sir John modi/by
F z Sir
.[ 100 ]
Sir John / -- -- -- --
His name was already written, Carolina -- —
Xhouglitlefs Victoria! laid I to myself— — I tore the card. -- -- --
Why stiould we remember a man we have not
Seen these five days r -- --
Five days I — must he benegleoed for an absence of ihe days?
So so, Said I again, C in I have nothing in my
heart, but it must directly fly to my tongue? --
Seeing my aunt remained filent, 1 went on and finistied the cards.
Mrs. Brenton looking on them —
Then you are not for a concert, Victoria? — Undoubtedly I am, dear Madam. How came
you to think 1 was not? -- --
By year not inviting the only performer —
‘ishe only performer! — His name, dear aunt? and i -- -- -- -- -
Why Sir John Modifa. — Without him what a poor concert I
Poor, indeed! — dared I to repeat after her,
J am glad we agree, Victoria- -- --
wrote — the cards were sent *
Carolina, all promised, to come, but Sir John, who “had it not in his power to wait up“
“us.” -- -- Not in his power, Carolina I -- --
Mrs. Brenton was greatly displeased — fly was certain the concert would come to nothing.
miss ehujon, Mr. Frojhy, and 1, dear aunt, will do our utmost to please you. —
elufai! — Eojhy I — — -- -- -- -- -
And Sne Snrugged up her Shoulder with a Smile bordcting on contempt. — In the name of heaven,; 'iever mention Fllifon and Frojly, whilst we have a Sir John Modiji).
I hope, resumed she after some minutes reflection, no body has given Sir John any dislike to
Brenton[
[ ]
brenton hall. — Though they say he has been, and still is, a daily finner, we are no saints, Victoria. detra6fion, which never Scruples to add to the frail ilties of men, and seldom relpe61: s the purest innocence, is risen to such audacity, that I always dis trull the ill spoke against any individual, whose outward behaviour has never deviated from that of a man of honour.
Let not thy ear listen to Slander, Victoria -- --
disbelieve those that would nresume to defame in
1
thy presence the man who never dealt dilhoneftly with thee. It is the language of the base. — Has my Victoria any objections to the viftts of Sir John? -- -- -- -- --
Far be from me the tlroughtof Slighting the man my aunt respects- -- -- -- --
Mr. Frojby thinks him troublesome. — ■
On what right? -- -- --
What right, Victoria f -- -- Does he dot love
thee? — Is Sir John So nfignificant as not to frighten a lover? — Had his presence and assiduity rendered Mr. Frojby miserable, had he required thee not to See, or converse with Sir John — few, very few, Victoria, could so plauubly colour their sense less jealousy- -- -- -- --
Frojly been so unjust— — lie never was —
Would you have punished him, Victoria, for having a£ted in chara6ler?
Who ever acknowledged the propriety of an in Suit? -- -- -
Who ever saw an insult where none was offered ?• -- -- -- -
Are the wanderings of the heart of so sacred a nature as to brave an appeal to reason? -- -- -
Love, Victoria, hates reasoning: — it is in its ovm cause both judge and party. — If reason meddles in the quarrel, love is no more. -- -
I hope not, sighed I, turning to the window.
F 3 Carolina!
[ 102 ]
Carolina! what do you think of your Victoria f
-- -- How dangerous to our sex is vanity! — why
cannot we coldly suffer negle<st:, though so often wished for? —
brenton hall — 17 6 -- -- --
LETTER VIL
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
Five days, Frederick, have I been fecreled
from the eye of the despotic Victoria -- -
five days weighing, with the stale of self-interest, my love, and her indifference — five days allowing my fancy to riot on each charm of Lady
Behnour -- -- 3'et am I still adoring the virtues of
Victoria, extolling her beauty, ready to prostrate though certain to be rejected.
Far from ab: .ting the fire of pastion, solitude either renews the flame, or adds to its fury. Necessarily centred in lhe beloved thought by the absence of other objects, does not its illusion naturally encrease and feed the luxuriant deflre? What advantages do not the ladies gain by the reveries of their lovers? Safely may they intrust our
^ imagination with their concerns -- -- -- -- what more
powerful protestor could they have than the \ery creator of their charrns, and the pleasures they procure?' -- -- -- --
Yes — I am determined : — I will not go. ’tis raftiness, not bravery, heediessly to expose one’s self to, n infallible danger, when we may retreat
wilh honour. -- -- -1 will not go. — O Love! envy
not Spite this triumph over thee! -- -- -- 1 will
^ not go.
I have just Sent Mrs. Brenton an apology as polite as wit and carelessness could contrive. ^i
■wonder how my heart happened not to dictate —
Prudence
[ 103 ]
i0
Prudence held the pen -- -- -- wrote -- -- -- Prudence!
-- -- 1 might have Spent a whole evening with Lady Victoria — — a whole evening! -- -- -- Do I already
repent?
Modijh hall 176 -- -- -- --
L E T T P: R VIII
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
Lord Fanfly, my mosl passionate lover,
has proudly taken his leave, Victoria -- -- --
proudly, without one tear -- -- -- -- -- without
even reproaching me with my iir sensibility-
-- -- is gone to Paris, there to be ssnissied, I
presume, in the glorious endowment of veiling his ignorance and stupidity under the bragging airos Self sufficiency.
Greatly is Lord Fanfly in need of being perfedied by the courtiers of V erfailles, and the beaux of Paris, in the art of wearing a lhameiess countenance. — — — —
When he comes back, he will confidently talk, offer advice, and give his opinion — he will glory in his cook and his taylor, laugh at religion, dii dain his country, never Smile, always laugh — and maybe, excel his very mailers. —
But for this Ipecious ouifide, how many of our
great men -- -- of our fine ladies, vv'ouid die away
their senseless existence! S'or this alone, how many women are admired, how many men extolled, whom Nature, had Solely produced for sitting,
walking, talking, or drelfing unnoticed! -- --
How deserted, Victoria, our Ssshionable levees, vere minions obliged to praise but the genuine qualities of their worthless protectors!
F 4 Who
«
[ 104 ]
Who amongst them would tell one courtier he is a tool, another he is a knave, this he basely Sold his country, that he daily brings it to contempt, by preferring his own dastardly creatures to the
first posts of their state? -- None surely but the
free, none but palriots, would dare to pull off the dignified robes, under which they mysteriously lie, as safe from our vain indignation as the rotten bones of a canonised rogue in his gilded
ihrine. -- -- None but the free! — wshere are they?
Name me a climate, Victoria, under which there
are no wants, no passions, no self-love -- -- under
which fools poltess not the highest places of trust
and honour -- -- -- under which the dear French asili
rance does not defy our Sagacity, and impose on
our understanding -- -- Name me that climate, Victoria,
then — Shall I always obey the present calls
of fancy? -- -- Why did 1 mention Lord Fanjiy
but to beg your condolence? Have I not acted as
a true woman? -- -- If So, torgive.
12 o’clock.
I must rest contented, it Seems, with Lord Pe
■krfton -- -- Mighty agreeable this! — Tshanks to the
inefficacy of xny charms, he is the only man I have now at command. -- -- -- Hers, no doubt, extremely
happy in being alone. — But was he to abat of
his affetslion for me, was he- -- Srep to the
glass.
I am disheartened, tiiough encouraged, by the
obliging counsellor. -- -- - — rranfient beauty! —
I Slioulci hate Lord Pelerflon had he been captivated by an allurement I owe to nacu&e and not to myself. — What are the charms that may vandh the hour aster they have been admired and caused the
most enchanting illusion- -- -- I not neglest
ed the improvement of my mind? -- -- -- Havel not
been too careless of the only accomplishments
which
[ tos ]
r" "
which will leave a lover no regret for the loss of his liberty? -- -- -- -
Victoria will readily agree with her Carolina that beauty is oftener a misfortune than an advantage. We are commonly so haughty, so Stupid, when are handsome, that I wonder we don’t lose by our Speech and behaviour what we gain by our looks. — -
It is widi a beauty as with a tyrant. Can she hear but flattery? Do not Slaves watch her nod, ready to guess — still readier to obey? — How should not she be intoxicated with vanity, regardless of true merit, and trust her fate to her charms, and the extreme Senlibility of the numbers who throng to obtain a glance of her eye, and be made happy in her Smiles r — Easily— — easily, Victoria, do we confide in the lovely features, the delicate ftiape, the graceful carriage, and the melodious voice :
■ — too easily do we receive the incense, delight in the offerings, and glory — and (hare in the ecstasy of our adorers. -- -- -- -- -
How can a beauty question the refistless power which nature has made inseparable from her, when men incefiantly heighten her certainty of it? — Is, file not everywhere entertained with sighs, desires, and transports ?'Does any man hesitate to gaze — to pray — any woman to censure, or burn with envy?
Will lhe in the midst: of her greatness— — the full enjoyment of undisputed empire, think She is hourly on the verge of disgrace? — Few, Victoria, but Sew will reflect on the certain end of their glory, and damp their present joy with the fears of a futurity they perhaps may never lee.
Let us, Victoria, ascribe to lucky circumstances, and the tender attention of our parents, the preference we have given to the qualities of the mind over those of nature. — Had we not been constantly told how inestimable the first are, ' how precarious
F 5 the
[ ro J
the latter, we stiould now perhaps have been wrapped
up in ignu'ance, vanity and folly. -- A d grestion
again! — and you will bear patiently with the wandering Carolina! — 1 .est I stiould ramble once more, 1 abruptly fubscribe myself your
London — 176 — Carolina.
L E T T E E IX
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
HO W preposterous, Carolina, if, from a few flights of my vanity, you Should infer that Sir John has stolen into my heart! Though I m ght forgive it for your extreme partiality to him, be filent, lest repenting of my sincerity, I should refrain from disclofing to you my unexpedfed thoughts, and unusual feelings. — But why Should I mind your opinion? — I love not Sir John — Well then, Carolina, indulge your fancy, and determine at your pleasure how' it is, or how it is not, with your Victoria.
I give thee full power lo ramble al difcrelion, to think, write, and judge as ridiculousty as thou wilt.
That thou may’st not be at a loss to Support the opinion thy unerring Sagacity shall be pleased to favour, I will tell thee all that has within these few weeks happened to me — I will lay my heart before thee. — Then, Carolina, then perhaps thou wilt know as little, be as uncertain — bul no mailer for 'that. -- -- -- -
I will ingenuously confess, that the behaviour of Sir John being constantly polite, respe6lful, and obliging to M r. Frojhy zndmt, my prejudices sub fided — 1 Saw him with pleasure — and at last Set a value on his endeavours to deserve my esteem.
Believe that my certainty of his love, and his generosity in Silencing it, operated not a little to
instate
C I;
rnstate him in my favour — believe it, Carolina, and 1 will not be offended.
S'evv, said I often, restedling on his accomplishments, few would fear to render me unhappy by their persecutions — none perhaps would scruple to declare, to hope, and even to question my taste in my love for Frojby.
Tids refined behaviour of Sir John flattered me the more, as 1 expected less delicacy from him. It was so rnanifeftly the reverse of his principles, that looking on it as my own work, I could not help thanking him in my heart, for the glorious coii descenfton I had forced him to.
Was it my virtue or my pride which was so sensibly asfe£ted with the pleasing contrast:? — This, Carolina, I leave to thee to examine and to resolve, as being a more profound adept in the art of distinguishing pastion from Sentiment, and the feelings of the heart from the Sallies of imagination. — To me it belongs to relate, to thee to analyse, compare and decide.
Though Sir john’s reserve encreased at every viiit, he was not less amiable, less entertainin*’, lei’s happy in the amusements he procured us. his travels were an inexhaustible topic — His aistion is noble, easy, insinuating, and admirably Sets oif the charms of his elocution. — He speaks— — to Speak, but to please. — ever fuccessful is his attempt Glance, Carolina, over the word attempt, for let me not tell thee the why. -- --
Music afforded; him perpetual opportunities to display an unwearied complaii’ance in complying with the repeated encores of my enchanted aunt. — • Never was she tired with listening, never was he tired with gratifying her humour.
tvednefday II o’clock.
Often, when, alone with Sir John, has he, on a
fljddcii
[ io ]
tedden, taken my hand — stolen it halfway to his lips — let it go immediately, and begun a lively conversation on Subjects which lie knew I liked, or was tolerably versed in.
I am a Stranger to the art he employed; this you must disco^^cr, Carolina, but 1 had always a better opinion of my own wit and taste after having conversed with him
My aunt daily compliments me on the improvement I have made, these five weeks, in knowledge of the world, and applauds the elegance of my diction, the p’'opriety of my remarks, and the accuracy of my designs. — She whispers also, but very Cftly, that my Shape is more free, my currfies less confused, and my sighs, mind this, Carolina, and my sighs less frequent.
Frojhy complains of my coldness. — He Says that Since Sir John has visited familiarly at brenton hall, 1 receive him not with the same Smiles as before. — Twice has he haughtily required me to tell him my true motive for continuintr of late so long in the
o o
library. — He thought I once attended more carefully to my dress, and has often taken a real pique at my favouring Sir John with a tune, a nolegay or a walk in the garden.
Should not I be very amiable, Carolina, were I ignorant, impertinent, and ill natured? don’t you think that vanity more than love is concerned in his displeasure?? not he otherwise be more careful of my glory’? — To pride in Sir John being a witness of my inclination for him! — Is not this both indelicate and ungenerous? — Can he wish to make himself happy by another’s pain— — Sir joki the same thought— — he dare to express it! -- -- How Surprising his modf^ration, yet how commendable! Can a man of So fiery a disposition— — he loves me, you Say !' — I am glad you were deceived, Carolina,
One day — one day, do I Say! — every day, Cas
109 ]
rouna, I read in the looks of Sir John, Victoria f “were I certain you loved not Frofly, and that “my homage would not be thought unworthy, “how happy 1” — Then, Carolina, I turn my eyes from him, and will read no more.
I o’clock.
How I gradually came to rejoice in the prestnce of Sir John, and to miss him when he was gone, you must: inquire in your conjuring book, Carolina.
I will not tell thee, lest I Should too powerfully add to the virtue of thy magical wand, that more than once I could not help eclioing Mrs. Brenton in her praises of Sir John, and that I often thought were his morals as unquestionable as his wit and good nature, it might prove dangerous to See him. Whence that restecssion arose, 1 have not examined, and as I will not recoilecl: the time and circumstances which caused it, for fear of an emotion my prudence bids me avoid, great as thy Skill is, thou wilt be unable, 1 doubt, infallibly to astign its genuine origin.
1 had so well habituated myself to the visits of Sir John, and So pleating was his conversation, that I was sometimes tempted to think the day lost in which 1 had not Seen him. Not that 1 had been without agreeable company, or Frojly had been less courteous, less refined, in his endeavours to, fix my attention, but then — I hate these thens”
— ni write them no more. -- -- --
I have Said courteous and refined, ” why not
“loving and ingenuous?” — endeavours!” — Cao
o
rolina / do I know what I write?
A. fortnight ago, two days pasted without our hearing from Sir John — the tiiird, my harpsichord was untunable — my ear — I had no, ear — I sat to draw — the paper was wasted — I took up Popd& efsay on Man -- -- -- senselels I exclaiiyied I, and it dropped
on the floor. — Next I unfolded Some of Frojby ^
letters
[ no J
letters — how tedious, Carolina! — my heart beat quick. — Certainly, said I, all is not right within — Unwilling, however to inquire into the extraordinary agitation of my spirits, I attempted to Shake off the anxious thought, by successively varying the objeifis and the Scene of my diversions— — was not absolutely unsuccessful — but that heart — that
fbolisti heart of mine, Carolina — ^ --
Frojby came — how palpable was his indiferetion! — He began by an unkind air of amazement at the carelessnefs of my dress, and the gravity of my countenance.
I hope, my lady, his not to your health I must impute the gloom which hangs upon your lovely features — that negligee — these looks — the sight is
so extraordinary -- -- you did nol expect Sir John
modij}) — otherwise you would hardly have ventured to appear so different from yourself- -- -- -
! — Had I known, Sir, I was in need of ornarnenls not to frighten Sir John away, I would undoubtedly have had the precaution to dress. — But it is not late — Sir John may come— — go and borrow from my toilet the charms you obligingly say I want to please him. -- --
And dropping a curtly, I was retiring -- --
Pray stop, my Lady -- -- -- -- Tell me plainly, had
you thought Sir John was to come, would you not
have Set off your graces ho more advantage? --
Not pofiibly on his account. Sir, as till now, I
knew not the necessity of it. -- -- --
How severe you are. Lady Victoria! -- -- -
Tell me how I am so, Mr. trojly. -- -- -- -- -- -
Through my fault — dear Victoria, 1 was wrong
— I own it.
I forgave, sat down, listened. Spoke, walked, played. Sung — still was the evening very long — — still was I absent, and uneasy.
The next day, worse.
The
[ III ] V
‘4
The fifths my refllennefs grew more sensible and in order to dispel it, a concert was ordered.
3 o’clock.
Though I told you in my last, Carolina, how I a£ied with regard to the invitations 1 ieiit by the command of Mrs, Brenton, and mv conversation with her relating to Sir John and Mr. Frojby, I left you to guess what my thoughts were on Sir john’s “not having it in his power” to wait upon us.
Not to anticipate your judgement of them, I will not enter into the nature of the reflections I made, and explain the emotions I felt. — Strive to guess— — not to mistake— —
company was numerous — the men awkward, affected or impertinent — the women either gaping or whispering — all the performers full of confidence, loudly warbling what they were going to perform. -- -- -- -- -
1 mistrust that felf fufficiency, whispered my
aunt — real merit is not So presuming -- -- -- Oh, Sir
John! Kixjohn! he only could have pleased — Go, Victoria, go to thy harpsichord, remember i’ll listen but to thee.
We began — then we began again. -- -- -- -- Twice a
string of the first violin breaking, twice there was a general stop — several from the first to the very last stroke of the bow went naturally out of tune one turning hastily a leaf of his music book mistook an allegro for an amoroso, and perceiving not his error, played it on with the utmost unconcern. — An unlucky cougstfeizing on Miss Fllifon She was singing, La Buona Figliuola was thrown aside, and we had a solo on the german flute.
How Mrs. Brenton suffered!! — her sensible ears were grated! — how she longed for the end of that solo— — was, however, applauded, admired and honoured with a general clap.
Noble
^ [ m2 ]
noh\z luora Belmour! how willingly he ascribed to his taste the compliments paid to his quality! —
I inwardly Smiled at the mistake.
Is it not very convenient to be a Lord? Said f to Frojby. Had Lord Belmour been but a commoner, Should we have indulged him in his folly? — wlrv,
Sir have not you a coronet r -- -- -- -
d'hank you, my lady. — -- -- -- -- -- -
And for noise and confusion we prepared again. Mrs. Brenton had the misfortune not to be undeceived in her opinion of the concert: it was as miserably performed as her fears had presaged.
Was I in the wrong, Victoria, Said lhe to me,
when We had done Scraping_________would I had
been So, but that Satisfaction was denied me. I hope the Supper will make amends — slow they have added to my esteem for Sir 'John! how great his superiority!! — blushed, Victoria, for Seeing thee amongst them, though, I will not stat er thee, thou amazingly neglect; elst thyself.
Is not my aunt, Carolina, too attentive to my
motions -- -- -- - too partial to Sir John? -- -- --
He stngs. — Well — is stie to infer from thence that he deservcs her esteem? Can talents which, at best, are only agreeable, compensate for the absence of virtue? — sterhaps I am too rigid, carolinoi. Whence my aunt’s constant praises of Sir John?
-- -- Are they not inconststent with her friendship
fox frojl)y? — It seems lhe takes a delight tp open my eyes, strike my ear, fill all my fenses with the image of the man who, She Says, is music and melody all over. -- --
Was I not cetain She loves and respe^ls Frojly < — surely Ihe donst believe it unsafe for me to listen — to echo the eulogiums Sne lavishes upon Sir John — otherwise she would refrain. — Did you ever know anybody So rapturoully fond of music as Mrs. Brenton? I must advise frojfjy to improve in it as much as possible— — genius is excellent, and to
oblige
[ 113 ]
oblige him to emulate Sir John, i’ll tell him — —
what! — What shall I tell him? — Nothing. -- -- -- --
Adieu.
brenton hall — 176 —
LETTER X
I
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelhaai.
THOUGH hrofoy wears lb exultingly the features of an happy lover that my heart often beats ten times in a minute for revenge, yet, Frederick, I cannot take upon me to resent his perpetual
attacks upon my pride. -- Victoria is his guardian
angel -- -- her love for him triumphs over my anger,
and softens it into concern — nay into friendship. — I ride, hunt,. drink with that man — he talks of the lovely maid — he talks with rapture of
her beauty -- -- expatiates on her tenderness for
him — and no look, no motion of mine expresses that his conversation is torment, his happiness death to me! — curse on his tongue — curse on his Smilino countenance which overwhelms me with
O
Sorrow — If I thought he knew how much I love ' — how much I suffer by hearing him — no: he knows it not; his good nature could not triumph in my grief. — ’tis I who for ever start the murdering topic — who inspire Frojly with the fond enthu fiassh by my incessant praises of Victoria — her name is.constantly on my lips — I forget that ’ds to my rival I Speak, if I can but Speak of her. — Two hours ago he came here : instead of “how do you “do, Sir ?” I asked “how does Lady Victoria ?” His eyes thanked me as if her health had been
his -- -- as if he had been indifferent to all but her
■ -- Frederick!! myself, not of him must I complain.
— myself alone will I detest — Oh, my heart,
my heart, how st is torn !-
modijh hall — —
LET
[H]
L E T T E R XL
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
IT has pleased my sweet Lord fekrjion to favour me with a Short lit of jealousy, that I might be in no doubt of his extreme regard for me.
He probalsty thought, Victoria, that I wanted this proof of his attachment, and his generoluy could not allow him to resuse it. How nicely prudent in the choice of his means to take off from me the least tendency to mistrust my power over him! — Is it not very Siind in him to seize the first opportunity to convince me that, though nobody has yet offered to compensate for the absence of Lord Fanfly, he relies nol, sofar on Ills deserts as to think himself in no danger of lostng me?
Jealous men are amiable creatures. How they flatter our vanity by questioning their own importance! — How Sagacious in their discoveries — discreet in their affairs — just in their reproaches — di j verting in their anger I — What abilities are requisite
I not to mistake the capricious character- --
; laugh, Victoria, his not So easy a matter to be impertinent
without offending, and troublesome without disgusting.
I I Speak not of those frantics wdio seem to love
I but to hate, to talk but to affront, to move but to
'frighten, to smile but to kill. — Heaven guard' us
j from these fiery monsters — my blood chills at the
I very thought of them — Lord Pelerflon is a more
‘ tractable animal,
“11 p Alarme alfemmt et f’ aphafle de niemef
i
j
I 10 o’clock.
! Lady Preston and her younger brother having
dined
I
i
L II J
dined with us, "we took in the afternoon an airing, '* to Clapham. At our return, Lord Pelerjion, who had waited for me half an hour in the drawing-room, approached my ear -- -- -- -- -- --
To the country! — without me! — how barbarous! — Barbarous indeed! answered I smiling, the more so, as we had charming weather, and w’ere
extremely happy -- -- -- -- -- -
Happy, my Lady!
And he cast an eye on Mr. Prejion.
Mr. Prejion, Victoria, is a discreet youth, blessed with the lively bloom of eighteen. Lately come from the University, he left behind him the garb of a pedant to aslume that of a fine gentleman.
His manners are free, easy, and decent, spite of the contagious air of the classic world. One would say he has been educated by men of sense, so great is his modesty, his reserve, his taste for polite company, his respect for the social duties.
Come, are we to be grave now after so much gaiety?
It shan’t be my fault if w? are so, ^ Said Mr, Prejion Smiling,
I take your word. Sir — you have too much wit to Suffer dulness to intrude vstrere you are. — I own I have Seldom spent lb agreeable an afternoon. — How kind, my Lady! —
Kind! Say True, Sir. —
What a flatterer! —
Will you enlist, Sir, on denying yourseif jus tice? —
Did you, Madam, neglecf to please?? — -- -- --
1 believe I was successful? —
Did we appear tired. Sir ?5 — had You the vapours, Lady Prejion?
As it is not me my brother intended to please, he will excuse my thanks,, — r, -
Well
^ [ ild ]
Well said, Sister, keep thy gratitude to thyself ■ — his enough that Lady Carolina regrets not the few hours 1 have pasl’ed with her. -- -
Is Lord Pelerjion determined not to favour us with one word? asked Lady Frejion. -- -- -- -
I was afraid, Madam, to interrupt these effusions of the heart — Is not my discretion very commendable, Lady Carolina? —
essfusions of the heart! — discretion!! — punish him, said I to myself.
Very much Ib, my Lord — whatever you do is a propos. -- -- -- -
And turning to Mr. Prejion — I hope, Sir, you have no longer any doubts of the pleasure your company has afforded me —
They fubsift no longer, my Lady: HI indulge _, .my vanity with the fancy.
And the lovely youth kissed my hand.
Lord Pelerjion rose up, endeavouring to hide an uneasy look.
’ Surely, thought I, the man is mad — What does
he mean by that look? — displeased for a jest I disturbed for a kifs! — howijos'h! — Imuitplagae him.
9
Then I hftened to the sprightly trifler, excited his mirth, and supported it with smiles, lively answers, and taps of my fan.
2 o’clock.
Mr. Prejion behaved as if he had read my mind’. He fell in lb heartily with my project, that he displayed to admiration all the graces peculiar to ingenuity, humour and vivacity: his eyes (hone with an uncommon fire, and his countenance, en livened by the latisfadsion he enjoyed, w’as feelingly beautiful.
So apparent was my partiality for the young gentleman,
\
I
i
f ^
1 n 7 J
tleman, that Lord Pelerjion grew at last abrolute *^ ly fulpicious.
Having ventured a few words I pretended not to hear, he instantly mimicked my indifference, and racked his imagination to keep it up,
I am afraid, said I to Lady Prejion, our conversation is too childish for his Lordship. I beg you will start a shbjedt more adapted to his taste, that he may be released from so severe a silence— —
it yourself. Madam, for I hate to be designedly grave. I will not prefer ferioushefs to gaiety — the choice is absurd— —
my Lord, you must yourself give the Subject, for noneshf us, it seems, are able to find it -- -- --
The attack, though fierce, proved inestedlual.
The good Lord, in whose breast; sorrow was never a welcome guest, thought proper to remove the odious sensation, and to look Sweetly on his Carolina.
I am Sorry, Ladies, my silence should have given you room to suspedt my judgement - tonic more agreeable than love!
JI D
Dear my Lady (and he drew to my ear) pity rny weakness — your charms and my uiiworthi ness have made me offend — forgive — forget —
And addresting Lady Prejion and her brother — Goon, my Lady — go on, Sir — pursue the favourite theme — I’H praise with you the most amiable, the most enchanting of all passions— — only one that can endear life — i’ll extol all the shapes which the benevolent deity chuses, or is forced to asihme.
— Let us celebrate the rapturous illusion- -- -
delirious man, cried Lady Prejion, stop your raving fancy — encrease not, by your eiithu liasm, the lierceness of a pastion already too lively ■ — spare our ears the fond expression— —
we
• »
W [ o8 ]
'we are profane, and unwilling to be initiated in the mysteries osso tremendous a god. —
Were I to tell you I was vexed at i/ord Peler jlorfs uneasiness, would you believe me, Victoria f — “No” — well then, adieu.
London — 176 —
LETTER XII
r
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pklham.
w1 T, affability, and good manners, Carolina, were absolutely excluded from supper. Our party of pleasure was transformed into a downright meeting of the County. Never were my ears stunned with so much Hander and impertinence. The ladies were as sanguine in their defence of patriots or ministers as if they had been emulating one another in dress and wit, or caballing for a favourite adfor. I had Scarce ten minutes of tolerable entertainment -- So many people
of rank, and hardly one of common sense and
breeding! — I was stck, stck to the heart —..
twenty times did my watch tell the hour that they
might gp -- Oh! Carolina, I will not be Sad again
— I have no encouragement — the remedy is infinitely worse than the disorder.
So disagreeable was our company, that imprudently comparing their behaviour with that of Sir John Modijh, I could not help esteeming him in proportion as he differed from them. — 1 wished him present to see in my eye the justice I did him. It had pleased me to give him that proos of my impartiality — I would have displayed the utmost complacency — my sorrow would have vanished— — ' amid so many fools, how engaging a man of parts!
I am
[ 1*9 J
I an afraid, Carolina, I Should have badly fupi^ ported the charadlcr of mistress of the ceremonies had he been with us — 1 would have looked, talked, listened -- -- surely there would have been more
disorder and confusion.
Never was Frojby more evidently negledlful than at that very time when he might so easily have a mused me — So easily have fixed my thoughts to himself alone.
Perpetual whispers were exchanged between Miss Ellison and him — he looked pensive and perplexed, and twice coloured at surprising my eyes upon him —
I saw Miss elufon Slip, with the greatest privacy, a paper into his hand. 1 nconfiderately fluttered at jt
I instantly made a step towards them -- -- - “It may
be a Song.” I went back to my chair. — How foolish I was!” Said I as I Sat down, “what are their concerns to me ?” — And no longer did I re fle<st upon them.
Mrs. Brenton had been a more stridl observer— — words Frojhy had, in her hearing, spoke to miss Ellison, awaking her curiosity, she earnestly applied herself to watch his looks, follow his motions, penetrate his thoughts. Her ferutiny, however was vain -- -- — Frojby escaped her sagacity, and
she was at a loss what to think, what to resolve.
#
10 o’clock.
%
Imagining that my dejedtion might proceed from some difference between Frojly and me, Mrs. Brenton sent for me next morning after breakfast to her closet- -- -- --
art so uncommonly grave, Victoria, so indisterent about the objects of thy daily amusement, without a reason— — it is in the power of friendsliip, love, or fortune to make thee happy,
speak
/
L ^20 J
ffpeak, and happiness Shall instantly wait upon
thee — Show a desire, and it shall be gratified. -- -
ire we not often, dear aunt, unreasonably uneasy? — Can we always account for a change of temper? Are we not liable to perpetual deceptions on the nature of our thoughts and feelings? —
So you know not yet the cause of your sorrow?? — I guess for you? —
I heedlessly blushed, Carolina, and desired my aunt to spare herself a fruitless inquiry, for I really knew not anything to disturb my peace, but what
absolutely related to her happiness- -- -
stis not in the power of Frojby to disturb it! -- -- -
Frojby I — T have not to complain of him — I hope Mr. Frojby will never disquiet me, —
Never will, Victoria! — Is he so indifferent to thee, that even his infidelity would not vex thee? — How you construe my words, dear aunt! — Thy words, Victoria! — 1 only believe thy expression of them. — Wouldst thou retradl thy voice and manner? — Shall I think Frojby could afflidthee
by ceasing to smile upon thee? -- -- -
Cannot I esteem Mr. Frojloy, without running the danger of so hard a fate? —
Esteem! — yes: you may by esteeming him only ■ — but if you love, as I think you do —
You think I do? —
Am I mistaken, Victoria f — Have I also misconstrued the declarations you made me of your affection for him? — You love him not, Victoria? — Not to the degree of being made helplessly wretched through his incorstancy. —
To what degree then might it affecst thy senfibi bility? —
What degreee! — ask me no questions, dear Madam. — My heart know not what degree to six — what answer to dictate -- -- --
Does
[ II ]
Does Frojhy suspect the doubts of thy heart? — < poitibly he may -- -- -- -- -
Can he really? -- -- -- v/hom could he impeach
for the possibility, Victoria? -- -- -- --
Whom! — you certainly jest, dear aunt — whom could he? -- -- i
But if he cannot, how is it possible he may? — He may through modesty — through delicacy — When you said“ “he may” did you think of his modesty and delicacy, Victoria?
Did you, dear aunt, give me more than time to Speak? — What a trial! — what a judge! — how Severely examined! -- -- -- Will not my aunt Save her
Victoria any more questions? —
I will, Victoria. -- --
And She stmpered at my unguarded ingenuity.
I am glad, you are not So strongly attached tb
Frojby -- -- ‘
And lhe Sneered, Carolina -- -- -- -
Were I not certain of this I would not venture to tell thee my thoughts on his behaviour of yesterday -- -- -- Since I can safely- -- -- -- -- Victoria,
confider once more before 1 speak- -- -- -- -- --
you are imposed on by some pique, some sudden
caprice -- -- -1 will not have thee to upbraid me with
having vexed thee -- -- -- -- -- --
Have you anything so heavy against him that I
may not hear it without emotion i -- -- -- Has he betrayed
me? -- -- -
suppose he has -- -- -- -
suppose I -- -- lie has not, dear aunt -- -- -- -
I have but conjectures, I own, and that is a
trifle -- -
A trifle! -- --
i declare, Carolina, I was not at all pleased with that “trifle”, and my blood flulhed my face with
indignation. -- -- -- Would ycu know the reason?
look lor it in the nitural resileltiiefs of our heart;
G there.
W L 122 J
there, you will find it Surrounded by vanity, self-love, and an unbounded passion for power and preeminence. — What a frail creature is woman! how amazing that we are not oftener the dupes of our own inconsisltncy! Were we always to obey reason, what perplexities Should we constantly be involved in I Who would not trembling receive an impression, venture a word, listen to a desire, walk,
fit, look, or smile?? -- what rank of beings
should our Sex be clasted, were we not necessarily tested about by love, pride and folly? — No more will I apologise, Carolina, for the flights either of
my heart or head -- -- -- 1 arn guilty of none, since
uninvited they strike my nerves, seize on my brain,
. and imperioully dispose of my tenlibility.
I will not fall a voluntary victim to the opinions of mankind, so long as 1 can unite virtue, decency, and happiness. — Were the, whole world certain I loved Frojby, if my heart ceased to prefer him before every other man, I would not keep constant through a false delicacy, and lacristce she happiness of my life to compliments paid to the Seeming infallibility of my taste and judgement.
To keep constant I would virtue allow me to impose indifference on a man who expedls an adequate return of love? -- -- -- -
vere il not a, most heinous perjury to give my hand, to swear for my heart? — Carolina, the minute 1 perceive I have been mistaken in my Sentiments of -- -- the minute 1 cannot, with honour
to myself, accept his homage -- -- -- -- that minute will 1 refuse to listen -- -- -- -- -- -- silence his sighs, and
avoid the preposterous language.
, 2 o’clock.
My Victoria will not then agree with herself, 1 said Mrs. Brenton, with the Softest harmony in her
voice, the most ienfible concern in her looks — ■
■ You
I
L 123 J ^ ^^
You love not Frojby — -- -- -- -- yet when.i mention, 4
but conjectures against him, thy heart immediately beats the alarm, thy soul starts up with indignation. -- -- —
I wish, dear aunt, my heart lay open before you, that you might know all the hidden Springs of its
contradidlory motions -- -- 1 am really unable to
discover the secret chain by which they are linked. —
How Should I not err on the nature of sensations, of which I am not the author? But, dear aunt, mind not my involuntary exclamation — tell me of Frojby. -- -- --
Did not you often observe him yesterday privately difcourstng with Miss Fllifon? — — —
I did. — You don’t imagine from this that Miss
Ellison— —
will not sofar affront thee, Victoria, as to entertain a fuspicion she is thy rival — thou hast nothing to dread from her charms — I only fear there is some intrigue mysteriously carried on between Frojby and Some lady to whom miss Ellison is .A confident — I heard him Say, I beg you will keep her from raving and writing to Lady Victoria.” -- I was So struck with the unexpedfed expression that I could hear no more. —
these words, Carolina, and lhe paper I saw Frojby receive from miss Ellison, were very stror^ temptations to conclude him guilty. — Many lovers have been condemtied upon less evidence — I could nol, however, take upon me to arraign his probity.
F'rcjby, dear Madam, has too much honour even to think of a base action. His proceedings
were ever noble -- -- his behaviour might defy the
eye of envy — So long as he continues to talk to me of love, becertaiti he will never talk of it to another. 1 alone engage his thoughts, possess his
G 2 heart,
[ '12 4 ]
'heart, flatter his imagination — from me alone does she wilh for happiness.
Frofiy has honour, religion and humanity: he ' glories in the charadier of an honest man, and delights in discharging its duties. -- whose favourite
or benefadlor is he not? — Is he not the father shf the orphan, the protector of the unfortunate?
■. -- are not icllends, misery and despair removed
from every place where he is master? Who ever ■incouraged industry, or rewarded merit, with So
much generosity?? -- -- 1 will not harbour a
thought against his integrity — he may be indiscreet, but not criminal. — I will not judge him on insig nificant words, and shrotid over secrets, which by his silence, must be of, no moment to us.
Can a man So imiversally respected, dear .aunt, •create either hatred, or jealousy, in the breast of your Victoria? — Would not you despise the niece you So tenderly love, was She capable of destasing herself sofar .as to disregard the w orthy object or the public esteem? —
I commend thy generosity, Victoria — I honour the benevolence of thy heart, but Prudence bids Thee look more attentively to thyself— —
shall Inot scorn the man 1 mistrust? -- -- -
If .ever I suffer suspicion to enter my heart, my respect, my love for Frojby (hall be no more. — Never shut from full .conviction of my wrongs, will I admit the injurious thought — till then Hi dilhe
lieve the possibility. --
rh watch Lor thee, Victoria — ■
Why has Sir John fled from us, Carolina? where is he? — What can he be about? — No news yet from him — almost a Sortnight! — I hear a coach — his not he, Carolina, it is not he. — brenton hall — iq —
L E T[
[ I.
m
LETTER XIII
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
Ha.! had ha! I must laugh, Victoria; how can I help it!
“frojbyfov^s — he has no fault when he talks' of love.” Ha! ha! ha! — “If he offends, I rave myself into hatred of the man — if I see sorrow in his looks, he no longer is guilty — I sigh and
love again.” Haha! ha! Now Frojby may
hang or shoot himself, if he pleases— — it not so,, Victoria F
Long is it since I composed the ormfon funehrt of thy passion for Frojly. ’tis so charming a piece I what a pity thou hast never read it! — Thou shalt see how curiously I unfolded the mistakes of thy heart — with, what sagacity I foretold that Sir John — blush not, Victoria — thou hast said enough to persuade me Sir John Modijh is positively the man who will make thee “sigh and love again.” — Thou afiumest thy severe airs, Victoria! wiry then I will wait thy leave to write thou lowest him. Ha! ha! ha!
London — 176 —
LETTER XIV
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
Dissipation, I implore thy friendly aid. Thou alone canst infuse pleasure into my heart — revive drooping deftre — awake my Soul, and give life to my existence.
Too long have I neglected thy enchanting remedy— — I must — will Submit to thee, and
G 3 drown
- [ 126 ]
drown my enamoured spirits in the deluding cup of transitory joy. — No longer will I sigh away the bloom of a life too precious not to be spent in. continual raptures.
Lei those whom frozen blood, or a stupid diffidence engage to constancy, kneel at their idol’s feel, adore their impertinence, deify their caprice, and tamely wait for the uncertain hour of bjiss — • far from my youthful veins be the languid circub' tion — let the wound I received frein the lovely eyes of Victoria be ever So deep, i will undauntedly bear with the pain, and heal it on the feeling bosom of a kinder mistress.
Certain that to blunt the keen edge of passion, it is not reason, but passion we must employ, I will sally from my retreat, invite the ladies of the County to a ball, and, with the triumph of a sultan, gaze, admire, feel -- -- -- -- and be happy.
Mistake me not, Frederick, I am not so displeaf ed as to imagine Lady Victoria has her equal amongst
them. -- -- -- -- No: I cannot oppose their
beauty to her form, their levity to her discretion,
their art to her ingenuity -- -- -- -- but what hopes
do I not entertain from that art, and that levity I
Are not the transports tbese inspire as fierce, as delicious, as those of mutual love? — at my age, inviiible -- -- insensible is the difference.
Who can resist the tempting languor of a fond eye — an inviting smile— — attitude voluptuoufly ventured?
What emotions warm not our breasts at the sight of a sprightly dancer! Mark the rapidity o
the movements -- -- -- the bending and railing of the
animated Shape — ’the wantotiriess of the feet — the fire of the eye — the squeezes of the hand — the trembling of the iips — the elasticity of the bosom
'— ‘the — — often -- -- -- how often, Frederick, have
the
r 127 ] ^
I (
the cares that perplexed my heart been lost in those '* where youth and beauty contend for our love and admiration!
Oh, Lzdy Belmour! -- -- -- to thee, as to the supreme
relief which my benign star paints to my
fancy under the most enchanting colours -- -- to
thee I fly -- -- -- -- 1 fly' -- -- no longer will I delay.

mcdi/h hall — i 76 —
LETTER XV
Lady Carolina Pelham ta Lady Victoria Nevil.
Hang all lovers L -- -- -- -- -- -- 'nature assuredly
was compelled to create, right or wrong, when She gave life to the odious beings; would She otherwise have formed them of impertinence and folly? Hang them all!
Lord Pelerjion dares to put on an angry look if I laugh and tell him not why. All my thoughts, it seems, ftiould be centred in one, and that one inceftantly upon him; I Should have no other fensc but that of feeling his worth.
He follows my eyes, watdies my features for an extraordinary beating of my heart, counts every ssnile, envies every whisper, startles at every step.
If I turn to the left, I see him: if to the right,
him again. — His behaviour is intolerable -- -- too
Severe a trial to my forgiving temper — 1 cannot, will not let it pass — I will resent it.
I really believe the man fancies himself already a hushanu, So ungenerous are his Sentiments of me. — I alarm him I he Shall Suffer for his groundless Suspicions. — He loves as one would hate. -- -
His mistrust is downright contempt — a downright insult to my virtue. — So many Symptoms of jealousy — and all ridiculous — all the work of his reft^
G 4 less
r 1281
less brain! — not one just cause— — give him some— — will be revenged.
He who talked So true he was all art. — — He lulled my heart into a deep calm — I never once thought it was in his nature to deceive, So well did he conceal his jealous disposition— — Siiall infallibly detest him. With such characters life must be a perpetual torment. — Oh, Lord Pelerflon! {tovoke
me not — I have not yet said I love -- still I may
hate you.
London — 176 —
LETTER XVI
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
I Have seen him, Carolina, I have seen him —
Sir John came this morning -- -- tne lovely day
increased in beauty -- joy titillated my heart -- -
enlivened every sense, and restored them to their
wonted harmony. -- -- -- -- Carolina! Sir John was
not the man I have known these Sour months past - — will nol attempt to represent the oatfide he woreto diy: — the change Scorns all description.
Whence the carelessness of his carriage, the levity oshis conversation r — is indifference the cause? — His love, impatient of contempt, cou d not last long — how happy he is to have Subdued the hopeless
passion 1 had you any noticn he could So
easily have triumplred over it? --
Guard, Carol na, guard against; writing any
more that Sir John loves me -- -- vert thou here,
how thou woujdst blush for thy perpetual blunders!
What an unfeeling heart is thine 1 I'houknowest nothing of love — it is yet a Secret to thee
The art of assigning their proper value to a look, an expression, an air, is above thy Skill, my dear
Carolina. Why do I Scold? -- -- -- ^'jhy mistakes
ars[
[ ]
. 41
reor no consequence to me -- -- -- -- can’t I coldly
ssnile at them, and even comp iment thee on thy ignorance? Art thou not happier with it, thou my gay Carolina? Would not a sigh, a reverie, a languishing mein, disfigure thy beauty, and frighten thy graces away?
Lord Pelerjion may tell you the contrary: believe him not, unless, from an extreme dislike to an impertinent world, you chuse to bury yourself in a dreadful wilderness.
Who can long endure the presence of lovers? — .Did you ever behold the odious Scene, Carolina, without instantly meditating a precipitate retreat r -- -- -- Is not their joy a punishment — their
Sole attention to themselves a vexation -- -- -- their
whispers a torment -- -- -- -- their. Smiles -- believe
not Lord Pelerjlorr,., or bid adieu to thy charms, thy amiable vivacity, and the admiration of thy acquaintance :, if thou dost, I te ll thee.thou, shait. be neglected.
To the unfortunate, how hateful the. fpedlacle of another’s happiness!! men would see a kifs stolen from thy bloomy lip, without envying the. invader, and, .in, their heart, wiftiing for a share in his theft.
Expect sensibility, not generosity, stem mankind; for ’tis more natural to pant after a good,, than to .endeavour to deferve.it..
3 o’clock..
But for his usual politeness and decency. Sir: John would have had no remains of himself.
Willshg to conceal my observation, lest he should indulge his vanity with a comment upon it, my. gaiety was nearly equal, if not superior, to his.
I received his compliment, paid him some, and even told him his “not having had it in his power
G 5 to
%
[ <30 ]
to make one at oir Cjncert” had been a sensible" disapointment to us.
He replied with a provoking fprightliness, “he “had been unhappy ever since that d y, as ours “was the only company that could give him real “satisfaction“
“accounts of his steward, the cares of a large family, were heavy burdens, and took up those hours he wistied could be wholly devoted to pleasure.”
He had a mind “out of mere charity to himself to Share these mighty troubles with an agreeable Lady/’
But where shall 1 find one who will dare to engage with me for life? — Would not the chance run firongly against her? — don’t you think, my Lady, it will be extremely prudent to keep my heart? — Who would welcome, and use it in a, friendly manner? -- -- -- -
^ I am quite of your opinion, Sir John: in tbs'
uncertainty of ihe reception your heart may meet with, it would be inconsiderate to venture the of, fering of it — you might expose yourself to be hum t
i bled -- -- --
'May not I hope for a better fate than I am aware
? -- -- -
Away then with your diffidence. Sir John -- -- -- -
do’nttell us of prudence, of fears -- --
Oh! that they were not So well founded I — r don’t you disgrace your character by So much ' modesty? I thought a courtier was naturally presuming— — out of conceit with himself- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
notion is very just, my Lady : I have not the assurance to contradidi it. Courtiers are fd dom men of sense. As they have no need of it to please, to be respected and promoted, wonder ik)t at their vanity,, insolence, and stupidity.
How
L IJI J
How come you to differ from them? — • -*
Only by accident, Madam. Discretion Breaks upon us by fits, as frolics upon men of judgement — they are mere or less frequent according to circumstances— —
are these circumftanees. Sir John? — ^ — An excellent education which teaches us moderation and the love of our country — felf intereft which assumes every shape to gratify its wants — the ambition of being esteemed by people of merit — -
Have you none of thesh at court? -- -- -
Many in appearance — few in reality.
But among the ladies. Sir John?. —
The ladies, Madam! — Were the men worthy of them, no nation upon earth would be So great, so happy as ours. — Nature seems to delight in favouring them, and negledling us. — What kingdom can boast of more accomplished ladies than ' England! — What court is adorned with a Harriet
S -- -- -- —, X Carolina Pelham, zn Ahrneria C -- --
an A -- -- ra G -- -- ra -- -- -
At the shft and every A — Sir John ha my, name on his tongue — Was it not very kind in him not to mention it? I think he is the only man whose -
I should at present difiike to hear
should I not betray too visible a concern? —
What is your real state? ashed I smiling.
None, Madam A .medley of nature, art, virtue, and fellintereft, it is impossible to fix on that
to which I particularly belong. -- -
If your heart is a compound of so many ingredients, how sagacious. Sir John, must that lady be, who shall attempt to distinguish your love
from caprice, vanity, ambition, or avarice f -- -
I am sure, she must be exactly framed on the same principle to succeed— — there such a lady in Cumberland,
There
. ' [ 132 ]
There is one, my Lady, to whom my h cart free from allay, would sincerely open itselt — L ut as I don’t see you disposed to pity me, were I to declare my passion, and prove unsucceisfui, I will not
name her. -- -- -- -- -- -
You apprehend I would betray you —
Though ever So certain of your generosity, Madam, I would still decline naming the lady, unless
assured of all your interest in my behalf. -- -- -- -
Am I so intimately acquainted with her as to be
able to serve you? -- -- -
You are.’ -- -- - —
And he looked earneslly upon me.
1 promise you nothing, Sxrjohn. -- -- -- -
rilsheep my Secret, my I .ady. -- -- -- -- -- -
Your cheerful countenance, Said Mrs. Brenton,
countermands the interest you Solicit. -- -- A lover
seldom bespeaks our favour with an air ot indifference. — Why don’t you dissemble, that you may engage Victoria to befriend you? — —
Had you at first. Madam, generously whispered me that advice — but now it were vain, to put on a vapourish face, and a weeping eye— — could L so unfeafonabl}' forget I was a lover r
6 o’clock.
. Sir John, after having agreeably jested on th part he ought to have played, desired our company to a ball and Supper he proposes to give next thurf day to the principal people of the county.
“I would not. Said he, alk anybody, not even the woman I love, till I knew whether Mrs. Brenton would deign to accept the invitation.”
My aunt having promised,. he turned to me —
You have already denied me one favour -- -- -- -- -
Will the granting of this compensate for it?
He took my hand, smothered a sigh— — will come, my Lady? -- -- -- -- --
I will, I[
[ ]
I will, Sir —
And away he went.
You perhaps imagine, Carolina, that the heart had a great share in this conversation — that Some parts of it were Spoken with the accent of love, and that undoubtedly Sir John and 1 understand one
another extremely well. nothing, of what you
may imagine has happened. Passion never once appeared in his voice and action — no, not once.
‘‘ Did he think as negligently as he talked ?” —
I believe not —
“Had he an equal right to, conjecture the same of thee, Victoria ?” --
1 believe he had -- --
Could he.from this conjedfure hazard a smile— — a word ?” —
No, no, Carolina, he could not. -- -•.
don’t ask me why 1 refused him my interest with the lady — I Should be. at a loss for an answer — I really know not one that could Screen me from thy ridicule, and by no means do I chuse to be humbled.
Let Sir John; and Sir John alone, discuss the denial every way — If there is one of any advantage to him, trust to his vanity for the discovery— — then it will be nothing to me, since Surely I did help him to it. — I See thee Smile — Smile again — =■ Obstinate girl, wilt thou always have thy own way? -- -
brenton hall — 176 —
LETTER XVIL
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil..
WHEN the Soul is, on a sudden, forced into a fretful mood, flattery is not more welcome to a coquet than — — — what a coward I ' am!
; I r ■
[ 134 ]
i ' /
am! the word is dead on my lip. — Victoria, is not very hard, that we women Snould, in a m nute of impatience, feel an expression rise from 01 heart to our tongue, and not dare to give it life down again, mult it retreat — stis murder. — Decei cy! to obey thee is sometimes provoking. — I car. help it — I will — “l"he deuce take him”! — ’T so trifling — yet how it allays one’s Istite! — om more — The deuce take him! now, Decency! n j fume thy rights; 1 am myself again,
jlj j Here is a letter from Lord Fanfly; if afer the
|;! hast read it, thou refusest to join with me in
hearty “Deuce take him, ” i’ll hate thee
To Lady Carolina Pelham.
I Madam,
ijl ^ despise me not when I assure you that, confidi
ing in my love, aud the honesty of my heart,
thought I deserved your hand, and was capable ( j i making your Ladyship happy,
j I What 1 wanted in eloquence, I had in Senfihili
j j ty. — Never myself when I beheld you, I. was na
I; turaliy awed into hlence or confusion— — couid no
i but admire and adore. -- --
Many laik of love — few know it. Studiei
words -- -- presence of mind -- -- flattery- -- --
are not the colours, it delights in. — I pradlised ik i i arts to wheedle your ladyship into attention — never
I ■ was I guilty of a borrowed glance, of a falle tear
of an unfelt sorrow— — said“ “love you, Can“ “-- -- then again — “I love you.” The expression
of these Words was all the wit I boasted: :. — other had wronged your charms. — alasj Carolina! had You loved, my confusion had been sense— — blunders vivacity — my character an honour to the age.
Diffident of my own abilities, I seldom opposed an other’s opinion. — I could not tell a iarcaflic 1^^
I rya

An w
N: - [ 135 1
■'fy^iaugh a lady into the knowledge of her folly, * w’hy a supercilious look, affect a contempt of hrieri — Hence my stupidity— — your dislike. —
tiad I amused you, I had been formed of every Excellence — my faults — I would have had no faults — Oh • Carolina, Carolina I you hated me for my very virtues — but forgive — stis not you I Should
upbraid with the odious injustice -- -- it Sprung,
from your father’s will — that will alone has caused my unhappineis.
In me you Saw a husband — you had no choice to make — the conftiaint was too great, you hated me even before you felt what it was to love — that constraint juftifted your prepolseflion — you could not but hate.
Why did Lord Pelham, who knew so well that Love Ipurns compulsion, lay his commands upon
you! -- -- - why were ycu ordered for my wife 1
— his friendship has undone me.
Carolina I the generosity of your brother has made you free — now your partiality will Subfide — -
no longer can you be prejudiced against me. -- -
you are free — then I am a new man — a man you
never saw— — man you never spoke to -- -- -- -- my
love itself will be a novelty to you oh! Ca,,
suffer me in the crowd of your admirers — >
If one among them has more merit -- -- — is more
worthy of you -- -- -1 Shuli be eternally miserable— —
matter — I will pray for your happiness.
Paris — June — 176 — Fanfly.
Men, Victoria, are surely very impertinent creatures. Does Lord Fanjly mean I am a fool?
I mistook his character!! — his parts! —
never knew his merit! -- -- -- What assurance !^ —
none but myself seen or heard him — why ihen
-- -- pofiibly — one might -- -- No — still would not
he be in the right -- Ami not a judge of what
is
"L J
Cs pleasing or hateful? -- -- -- He appeared at every
place of diversion- -- missed a drawing-room
day — no party in which he did not intrude — how could he avoid being known and laughed at ?•- — Already so foppish, and not above one month in Paris! how easily he grows ridiculous!
Though the good or bad opinion of Lori Paur fly be of no moment, yet 1 cannot bear his doubts of my judgement. — self-love has drawn up the accusation— — matter -- -- -- ’ds an attack on my Sagacity
— You will think me very silly, Victoria — but I sincerely wish to be esleemed, even by a Sop..
Shall I believe I really wronged his lordship —
was really imposed on by my prejudice -- -- really
blind to his virtues? -- -- Oh! Victoria — what a
fall! - how it would humble me!
Lord Fanfly would infallibly have a superiority
over me. -- -- His sight — the sight of a man we
have injured must; be intolerable. -- -- How my
heart would pant! it would break, Victoria, were 1 designedly guilty of an injustice— — could not forgive myself — no; I never could.
My contempt of Lord Fanjly has perhaps influenced others. -- -- -- The thought is torment — hash
he deserved that contempt, my pity Should have
spared him -- -- -- it was ungenerous to turn his
misfortune to my glory — How weak I, have been! my dislike is not an excuse — I was wrong, ^ —
When I was in Paris I heard of a Marquis de Grimaldi, a knight of Malta, who having money and no wit, kept an abbot to compose his letters. Has not Lord like the marquis, a chaplain
to help him to sense and delicacy? — 'This question.. L put to my brother. He Smiled, Saluted me, and left the room.
A ftnile! a salute!! — will not take them for an answer— — are too. expressive— — it possible I could have been deceived? — How stupid we
are
[ h7 ] NARE
when prejudiced! -- FH compel my brother
to speak— — if I have injured Lord Fanfly ' — though I hate him. i’ll do justice to his character, and own my folly. — He asks leave to re>^ew his" visits— — a friend i’ll grant, as a lover i’ll deny it. If I write or say, “my Lord, I was a fool when I thought you had no sense” ” the man must be satisfied.
London — 176 —
LETTER XVIII
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
ON my honour, my Lord, of all sublunary trifles I like women best— — to them your
good sense— — to that a puppet show next
to that — next to that what elfe is not a pup
pet show?
If reason was not lavished away on man, that indiscreet animal, I might but I hate to demonstrate.'
—
Does not the taking of snuff, my Lord, display to advantage, a white, round, well turned arm, and add to the graceful opening of a lady’s fingers? — What think you of a gauze handkerchief carelelly laid on a youthful and panting bosom— — a sparkling eye? -- -
I once gathered a rose: a delightful perfume! exclaimed I, what can be the cause of it? — A fairy passed by, and sighed upon it, said a young and sprightly lady.
Laugh not, Frederick, at that eye, that handkerchief, that pinch of snuff, that rose, and that fairy, — they are so many emblems — But, hull!! — company is coming. —
Thursday 5 o’clock.
Quickly lend me thy ear, Frederick 1 have
but a minute to whisper thee, that though the ladies
]
dies have furpalled themselves inelegance of dress, propriety of colours, and the art of conveying a desire from every feature, they are all edipied, all excelled, in the very charms they h veto boail.
It is not to the elaborate art of the 'Loilet, that Lady vfioria is indebted for her Superiority : no file is in her native beauty — Nature alone has ihe to thank. — have we to commend. —
43 minutes past 5 o’clock.
Four minutes more with thee, Frederick.
I have not disposed of my hand, lari Lady Victoria to me just now. I depend on you, t Sir John, for providing me with a partner. —
(jrenerous Lady Victoria, I will not abuse the
trust you deign to commit to my care. -- -1 Should
be unworthy of the favour, did I apply it to my own advantage.
I went immediately to Frojhy, and presenting him to Lady Victoria -- -- -- - —
This is the gentleman. Madam, I beg you will accept. -- -- --
Both were surprised— — sacrifice was visibly too great — I would have hated myself bad I been incapable of making it.
I The consciousness of having had in my power
! the postellion of the ear of Lady Victoria, for the
whole night, is such an abatement to Frojhy's Satis i faction, that I rather look on him with pity, than
! with envy.
Imagination! thou the benefadlress of mankind, wrap me in the veil of perpetual illusion!!
amiable condescenfion of Lady Victoria \ was remarked,
! Men, indeed, are unaccountable creatures, said
Lady Belmour. Sir John loves, and he cannot only resign to his rival a hand he was comptiment j ed with, but dares to appear elated with the loss —
I Had I such a lover -- -- -- --
I What
f '39 ]
What then, my Lady? -- -- -- -- -- -- --
What then, Sir John? — Why I would detest him in proportion to his generosity— — yield me So easily to the man he Should hate! and he would talk of love to me. —
My Lady! my Lady! Were you Victoria — Were I Frojhy, how differently you would think,
how differently you would talk f -- -- -- -- Would you
forgive the intruder on your pleasures?? -- -- -- -
you have him indiscreetly seize a favour your heart had not intended for him?? — bel eve that the gralification of vanity can supersede the feelings
of love! -- -- -- monstrous, my Lady, monstrous
indeed? -- --
Patience, HI come back prefenlly, Frederick, Half an hour after six o’clock.
How came You then. Sir John, to disregard that mighty love, and prefer Frojly to yourself?
— Is it easier for you to conquer than for us? -- -- -
You love not. Sir John, elfe would you eagerly
dispule the vi<story. -- love bears the first Sway in
our hearts — it gives laws, and will fubmil to none..
• -- Regardless of lhe happiness of olhers, ils own
delight is lhe cenler lo which all its desires areincef fantly directed— — Sir John, is the mark of an indifferenl Soul, a cerlain proof of lhe absence of passion— — adl with indifference, though you think you as wilh magnanimity.
This Sally of Lady Belmour, joined lo lhe vivacity with which lhe delivered it -- -1 don’t speak
lo thee of her eyes, Frederick, of her eyes. — what
wantonness in her eyes I -- -- has made Such an im
preflionupon me, th; t I am fully resolved on pursting, and very closely too, an allack I formerly made upon her.
7 o’clock.
Lady Belmour is not one of ihofe beauties that «ompel you to stop, to gaze, lo exclaim “how
beautiful
« [ i40 }
^ beautiful she is !” the passion fly inspires carries ihftandy with it love, deflre, and impatience to expire in her arms. Her inviting eye, Frederick, leaves no time to admire the finene's of her complexion, the degage of her gait, and the charms of her action— — fed yourself more forcibly in
ticed to enjoy, than to talk -- -- to devour each part
with inflamed kisses, than to praise its delicacy — to feed' greedily on the rapturous banquet, than to think of the power to do it honour. — Pleasure colours her lips, softens her voice, winds round her neck, enlivens her steps, and triumphantly sits on. her ivory bosom— — talks — no matter what She says — stis not the words but the opening of her mouth that conveys the fedudtion. — What a brilliant fet of teeth! — what frelhnefs! — what a luxuriant humidity! —
This picture destined to Frederick, the discreet Frederick, by the lover of the virtuous Lady Victoria. — No, my Lord; I amnotthe lover of Lady Victoria. — Spite of my heart, I renounce, the title, since. 1 despair to reap the benefit of it.
20 Minutes past 7 o’clock..
When f rzdy Belmour listens, krederick, she fpeaks to your heart, — What advantages has not a Seeming artless coquetry over the timorous countenance of genuine decency!. it invades with an irresistible authority, and at will disarms reason, the defence less bulwark we ever oppose to pleasure, its unconquerable enemy.
Would I infallibly know how a heart feels. — How the sight, the Sight alone, of beauty heightens the velocity of the blood through each vein ■ — gives sensation to every nerve — rand life to every organ! —
Whether I Sought to delude myself, Frederick or really felt what I have expressed, 1 heartily gave my soul up to the flattering prospect of happineis.
I il have
j
I HI ].
I have -- -- and will have no arms against wit
and beauty, said I to Lady Belmour. Freely I yield to you the vidiory. — Had I not heard you, I would still have remained in my Sormer error — your beauty began the discovery— — eloquence has per fedied it. — Certain 1 loved not, I doubt no longer I adore you.
I hate a compliment paid to my vanity at the expense of my judgement : it supposes a foible in my mind, and that supposition— —
only, my Lady, the work of a mistaken delicacy -- -- Let your charms answer for my veracity.
—
Had not Lady Victoria in a more eminent degree the Same guard against your inconstancy? —
You have convinced me She had it not.
You are observed, Sir yohn : Lady Victoria keeps a watchful eye upon you. —
Let her See your triumph, my Lady. Pride in it, and I am happy. — Still do you question my sincerity??
it not curiosity rather than love? —
This is no new deception — ’tis love, love itself— — very love 1 Swore to you — “remember the fatal Sneeze.” — *
At the word “Sneeze, ” Lady Belmour looked confused, and played with her fan.
Are you for cards, or a dance, Sir John? —
For either of them, both, or none, at your pleasure. —
If, like Lady Victoria, I should leave to you the disposal of my hand. —
I would not part with it. — no other Shall enjoy lhe sensual touch — lead the lively step — exult at your musical voice — delight in the loving Ishile — think of the coming bills. --
Words, mere words, the effect of domineering youth, of palsionate spirits— —
* the tenth letter of the third Volume.
If
N
• L 142 I
If so -- -- how naturally deceitful is their fire —.
May it as charmingly from my lips pafs into thy
heart, dear Belmour! —
^ \
What have you said?? —
hastily rose up, and cried oul, “when then “Shall we dance? — ” —
8 o’dock.
; The evening goes on, Frederick, in a continued sound of pleasure. To render it more exlerilive, I ordered, an hour ago, that all lhe apartmenls, adjoining to the gallery where we dance, should be laid open, that everybody might ramble without design, or retiring on purpose.
Though I concealed my intention under ihc convenienl pretext of keeping cooler, I soon perceived il had been understood.
One couple drew near, and went back — another ventured — a third followed — in less than twenty minutes each lover had lo thank me for a stolen
kiss he owed to my taste and humanily. ^ -- -- Had
Victoria lo lhank me? -- -- 1 know not, Frederick,
but ashing her, when she came to lhe gallery again, how she liked the pictures I brought from Italy, her answer was, “I saw none.”
A glowing envy sparkled on my countenance — Oh, Victoria! — ■ — Victoria! muttered 1. Then
turning quickly to the gay Lady Belmour -- -- (he
looked — she talked, Victoria was forgot — Frojby was forgiven.
The facility of withdrawing, whispered Lady Belmour, is a very happy addition to the pleasures of the evening — How came you not to think of it sooner?? — you any objection to the gratitude of your friends, or did you reserve for a few of them the freedom oi those retreats? — Have you made them public, only when their privacy was no longer required? — Tell me. Sir John, whom have you favoured with them? -- --
Yoa
t
L 143 J
You alone, dear Belmour, had a right to their Secrecy — you alone my heart wished to see in them — you alone had rendered these ihinutes the happiest of my life. —
You alone, Kir John, was capable of so indiscreet a desire -- -- -- of so gallantly denying my
curiosity- -- -- -- -- -
! Belmour! you love me not since you don’t believe me. —
Love you, Kxrjohn / who ever told you I did? — -
Your Soul too honest to distemble — too expres sive to want words, has communicated the Secret to mine — both have exchanged it — both —
And my Soul told il you? —
It did -- -- it actually does -- but for this place,
both —
ril fly — I must fly — leave me thou loo amiable,
too powerful tempter -- -- -- -- -- -- let me not be
guessed— —
obeyeti, lest our trouble should betray the too ■lively feeling. —
Not iovc, but its supreme madness, raged in my blood. — I Sat down, ready to faint under the pressure of pleasure. — Frederick, let me six on the past ecstasy. —
Half an hour past g o’clock.
Awake, thou creator of tender emotions, awake, or I lose thee — Lvery eye is dying vv ith the pleasure that animates thy face -- -- awake, or i lose
thee.
Grateful to my ear was the rapturous voice — every avenue to my heart epened to the benevolent expreliion — Oh! Belmour — (he walked — I dared not to follow.
By ail the charms of mutual enjoyment she shall be mine! — \ his, j rederick, vas the solemn oath
resulting from three minutes refiedtion she shall
she mine, echoed my fiery imagination. — My senses
- 144 J
0f.,
"' fes trembled with delight -- my soul started up for
immediate reality. —
Let impotency rail at the sublime activity of youtliful Ipirits — Sneer at the noble flights of nature envy and despair, its perpetual attendants, will amply revenge the feeling, happy lovers.
Often has a Word of t ictoria damped'hiy pantings after a sensuality lhe was not to procure — osten has file from my lips expelled the two forward Soul,
and forced desire to retreat into my heart -- osteii
• -- -- too often, alas! has she gloriously triumphed
over my enchanted fenses. — Heavenly maid! —
Victoria I Victoria! -- -- but 1 love thee not — this
day is Lady Belmour's,
17 Minutes past 10 o’clock.
I'aking counsel of my desires, I looked for the fpeediest way of gratifying them. Could 1 not unperceived steal ten minutes from so many hours we still had to be together, and make her accelsary to the theft? — This plan was the eastest of execution — was it possible!!
hopes, Frederick, were not so sanguine as to rob me of my political abilities. — I thought Surprise, and an unexpected atlack would infallibly
ensure me success -- -- how and when I was lo Sail
on the unsuspediing prey, 1 left not lo fortune, but to my assurance of victory.
In mailers of such great concern, a cool head, I own, will draw from the most instgnificanl oppor lunity both lhe merit and reality of a triumph. — But then, can a cool head be Supremely blessed with the genuine poignancy^of the intoxicating laurel?
. -- -- What are the enjoyments of vanity to the
ecstatic pantings of the heart? -- -- -- What is that
deflre, which can wholly submit to refledlion, and disdain the unforeseen, critical minute for the laboured Scheme?
My
L 145 ]
My eagerness misled me into twenty fruitless ex * In vain did I forcibly increase my attention : my heart opposed the endeavour — adiion, astion was the perpetual cry of my longing spirits. Ashoii, action!! I, when shalt thou enebri
ate every fense! Rapturous was each attempt --
fainter each refiftance. once, Frederick, once
I caught the friendly consent glance on her animated features — I flew to fix it — 1 — “How handsome
“he looks !” -- By heavens! it was the voice of
Victoria — I turned about — supper is Served — to my
next, Frederick, to my next -- -
Half past 11 o’dock.
Modijh hall -- -- -
LETTER XIX X
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil. ^
FY upon the naughty man! he makes me weary — impatient of his company. -- -- -- Was lie
half so expert at pleasing me, as he is at tormenting himself, my heart would burst: with love — —. as it does now with spite.
I will have none of those refined tempers— — extreme sensibility is death to love and the pleasures of life. — A fly that rests on my neck — a pinch of
Snuff from Mr. Prejion’% box the shadow of a
coxcomb I chance to walk upon — an actor I look at, or applaud, are sufficient to alarm lord Pelerjion, and fret him into nonsense— — will tell me an hour of that “pinch, ’’ of that “shadow.”
of that -- Lord Fanjly was but a novice in the
art of teasing. I could command him out of my apartment with one glance but this Lord Pelerjion -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- there is no such thing with him. He -
braves my frowns — nay insolently attempts to banter me out of them. -- -- --
H Sure
S ^ [ 146 ]
j Sureyou are not angry, lays he to me, with i
I insidious air; you are n ot angry — are you? ar
■ he steals a kifs of my hand. 1 turn from him
then will he take hold of my ruffles, gown ( apron, fall at my feet, drop a tear, sigh, Swea
j implore my pardon -- -- -- -- -1 forgive -- -- -- the Scei
renews — T here is no bearing this. Let .me See do I love him? — This minute I do not. — Wei I’H wait till I am cool to put the question again, -! If I can then Say -- -- -- coldly Say, I do not, avj
II .for ever with his whims, no longer stiall I Suffi
them.
Lord Fanfly, or his chaplain for him, lays th;
.a lover cannot be witty. -- -- Were this true, Lor
Pelerflon is ...not a .lover, for no man gives h it thoughts a more elegant, expressive turn. — H
t .words are exactly the picture of his sentiments
i tender, if loving — impertinent, if jealous -- -- -- H
\\ imagination — 1 will not praise that imaginatio
!; which vexes me so much -- -- -- -- But here he is —
I heigh ho I
n 2 o’clock.
: 'No: you could never guess what that man ha
I done. — Are you a conjurer, Victoria— —
Then attempt not to guess it.
The prettiest exploit that ever could be achiev scd 1 — — his lordship is not formed of .common ma
terials, I warrant ye, Victoria -- -- -- his fancy
what.a fancy! not one Italian in a hundred cai
■ boast the Same. — Hear and marvel.
Lord .Pelerflon Rad a large roll of I knew not what in his left hand when he entered th! room.
I Here, here, my Lady, and he pointed to it 'Aitl
I his forefinger, whilst triumph brightened ever;
i feature, here they are — I have searched even
'place 3 I have them all. No longer shall the;
i attrac;
i
I
I
I
[ h7 ]
attrast the flaring eye of the impertinent multitude. -- -- -- -
What is it, my Lord? -- -- -
The liberty this people enjoys is turned into downright licentiousness, my Lady; they have no respest for beauty — they dare to draw, to sell -- --
What? —
A picture which I will perpetually gaze upon when I am not with you — a picsture which was absolutely profaned by being exposed to public view. —
Whose is it, Sir? —
your’s, dear Carolina.
And he unrolled the noble purchase.
I Shrugged up my shoulders, and, forcing a Smile —
The print sellers are undoubtedly very much obliged to your lordship — what a quantity! — they Surely thought you had large orders from the country. — Did you pay the full price, my Lord? —
How unieafonable your jest, Carolina 1 is it thus you repay my delicacy — my solicitude for your glory? — Would not this mezzotinto have been in every hand? — Would not everybody have had st in his power to look on this feature — on that — to be lost in the charm of these eyes — the bloom of these lips? — Oh! carovma — this neck — this bosom — what agony when I think of the pleasure this picture had given to a warm imagination! — -
This is downright impertinence, exclaimed I, stepping into the drawing-room. Follow me not,
, Sir — and I shut the door.
Carolina I — Carolina! —
Not a word. — I was ready to cry with vexation. My heart was oppresled — my face glowed with anger — I bit my lips — ftainped with my foot ‘ — tore my fan —
Carolina J —
I fl 2 I ftoi«
'f
f; ■ - [ 1481
'1 •
|| I Hole through the opposite door, and flcv
1 “down flairs to my mother.
il''
i ^
ii 1
I what’s the matter, Carolina? — What vexes m)
That man, my Lady, that Lord -- --
And a tear fell on her hand.
jiil Some new whim, I swear, said Lord Pelham —
h Very new, brother. He law rny picture at a
|! print stiop -- -- grew immediately jealous of every
ill man who palled by, and has brought me the whole
Ij impresiion. -- -- Heexpedted my thanks for iiisfol
LI Jy, nay wondered I did not applaud the heroic
|; | deed.' -- -- -- -- --
: j Ha, ha, ha! this is new indeed, sister— —
i lie took the only method to make thy pidsure com
|| : they’ll indulge his folly, I promise thee --
I Have I not a curious lover, dear Madam?
[i He does love thee, Carolina — his caprice there
i fore must be forgot. Sit down, be not troubled
for a trifle — is Lord Pelerflon gone? if not, bring him hither, Frederick, and we will make their peace. -- -- -
Stay, my Lord; his presence would now be in
I fufferab e -- -- 1 am -- -- -- oh! brother, that man!
his jealousy pierces me — 1 fear him — he will make me unhappy. — My lady, can he love yet persecute me So? — Since I listen to him, can he think
that another man — the thought is insult -- -- -- what
an opinion has he of your Carolina when he can fuspedt her of coquetry?
■ Injustice and love, Carolina, often go together. — The stronger the passion, the greater the Sear of ' losing its object. — Fear reasons not — pity then,
and forgive Lord Pelerflon -- -- --
Alas I my Lady — Ipite of myself— — love him.
Riiig
L 149 J
Ring the bell, Frederick, compose thyself, Cart
Una -- -
A servant came — Lord Pelerjion was gone.
I am, very. — Adieu.
London, 176 —
LETTER XX
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
WHEN thou hast read this letter, Carolina,
I know thou wilt immediately pafs thy judgement on the situation of my heart. I know it; no matter : I warn thee that I object to thy tribunal, and v.'ill submit to none.
I enjoin thee, on pain of my utmost displeasure, to believe thy inability of deciding between likelihood and reality, till I have repeatedly sent thee my own opinion of myself— — thou murmur at my commands, 1 -- --
“qruewictoria !”
I hear thee, Carolina, I hear thee, I sincerely own I was both unjust; and imprudent. — 'That I may not, by forbidding thee to write, entice thee to take up the pen, and by tempting thee, Snare in thy disobedience, I Subject thee to no pena'ty, and lay no constraint upon thee —
Sedudtions are laid for me wherever I tread — love lies in ambush wherever I move — do what place Shall I sty ior Security? — frofi y, who Should protest me, Frojby Sides with my enemy! — he gives my heart no diversion, and leaves me defenceless against the attempts of my fancy. — It Seems he disdains a conquest which never was disputed — he rests after his vistory, and indifferently steeps upon his laurels.
Oh! my vanity, keep still— — not offended at frojby’s neglcst — justify not my wanderings with
H i ■ the.
L 15^ J
the rpecious pretext of his wrongs against thee! — 1 will iifteiv — I will yield but to love and equity.
I formerly complained of the injustice of Frojby
-- -- -1 was displeased with his doubts, his fears,
his curiosity— — times have I been tortured to the soul with his indiscretion. — Was it not, Carolina, to that perpetual agitation in which my heart was kept up — to that succession of different emotions which furnished fancy with no other ob jest than Frofoy, that he was indebted for my extreme partiality?
Is he not now unseasonably easy?? — does he give me leasure to reflest t — So well acquainted with the reftleffness of human nature — with our natural aptness to change, ' sliou'.d not he keep me constantly feeling and deluded?
Is not an implicit compliance with our desires as fatal to a lover, as an eternal resiscance to them? — Has he less to fear from our indifference than our dislike?
'In Society the complaifant'are seldom agreeable
— this you have often remarked, Carolina. In love why Should it not be the Same? — Alas I why don’t vie value a good, but in proportion to the difficulty of obtaining it? Why is a “Yes, ” when seldom or never attended with a “No”, generally odious?
I must attempt to increase my inclination for Frojby, by calling to mind his virtues, and all the reasons I have to esteem and love him. — Attempt! so quickly do I forget how to write? Mufti learn after having naturally been Such an adept?
How (hall I know I love, since I am afraid I love not brojbj? May I not labour under the Same ' symptoms, be equally insensible of the difference,
i and mistake again? — Nay, this very instant, ami
! certain Jove lies not dormant in my heart, ready to
rise at the voice of Frojhy? — \i}ec\f\''te, Carolina,
! decisive
i
i
L HI J
decisive indeed must the circumftanees be, which « shall eradicate every doubt.
Friday i o’clock.
We went yesterday to modijh hall. I will not Speak to' thee of the elegance and splendour of the entertainment — that you expest not from me. Thy curiosity pants only after novelty — thou wilt hear but from my heart — i’ll please thee; but, Carolina,. if I chuse to forget anything, neither guess nor mention it.
Confident he had an uncontrolled right to dance with me, Frojby thought it very needless to Solicit my hand : to Show him, however, that his prelenfions might be questioned, I left the disposal of it lo Sir
I loid him, with a smile, I trusted to his choice Sora partner. He appeared sensibly delighted with my Seeming generofily; — he bowed, talked, hesitated, took my hand — then bestowed it on Frojby.
- Surely, thought I, lhe man is either very indif serent, or very refined in his love and delicacy. — As for Frojby, he dilaled his fine large black eyes, and stared.
Pray, my Lady, how came Sir John by such a power? —
By me. Sir —
And I curllied.
By you! —
And he mumbled —
What did you mean— —
Sir! — I lurned to my seat and left him to stare“
“did you mean?” - — Was the question
So impertinent, Carolina?, - “What did you
mean”? -- Having not before clearly understood
what I meant, Frojly testified my judgement, and loon could no longer plead ignorance,
H 4 What
‘ r h2 ]
^ »
What did you mean, my Lady ?-....... —
And he sat by me.
To dance, Sir -- -- -- --
With Sir John? — — •
I made no reply.
With Sir Johns
I fupprested a blush, and looked displeased.
If with me, should I have owed the obligation to Sir John f Would not you have spared my vanity the gratitude he has forced upon me?
I got up, and Slepped to Mrs. Brenton.
3 o’clock.
Were it not, said, I to myself, for the indiferetion of Frojby, I should not know how it is I was interested in my complaisance for Sir John. — How serviceable is jealousy to let us into the Secret of ourselves— — “!” read, caprice, Carolina for Frojhy, a few minutes after looked guilty, repentant, and upon my kindly looking upon him,
was as tranquil, as happy -- -- will nothing force
him out of his lethargy? — Is he in no danger fmce he foresees none?
whiisl I was reflesting on the late discovery, my eyes were rambling about in Search or — of Sir John. — I will not answer Carolina, for the rambling of my eyes — That is furdy as involuntary as thought, sensation, or the frolics of thy lapdog?? thou imagine I could dislindhy and at the same time, think of Frojby and look for Sir John f — No matter what thou imagineft. — What is thy opinion to me if I am pleased to disregard it?
I Sir John was in a very close conversation with
! i^ady Belmour — both — i’ll tell you what I guesied
i from the lovely motion of their lips, and the ex
presiive casf of their eyes — they were talking, not I of \o\e, Farodna, for the pisture was too enlivened,
i but of gallantry and pleasure.
i Whv
I J
i
I'
L h3, ]■
Why does k\v John, w'honever believed in the constancy ot women, choose to compliment me with a quality he has not once met with r Who lias assured him I deserve to be So eminently dishjigulsti ed, or that I value an honour which 1 cannot enjoy but at the expense of my Sex? What has induced him lo think I poffess a virtue he ever thought a chimaera I— — it not amazing, that pss sion, which generally lessens every obstacle, Should magnify his fears. So as to blind his understanding r -- -- -- Enire nous, Carolina, what is constancy
but insenfibility, or a traristent ecstasy of the Soul? — As this is not an enlightened character we owe to reason, but the mere esfest of chance, liow Soolifti to persuade one’s Self of its permanency I
Why is Sir John so conscious. I will never
change — So conscious of my love for I rofiy? -- -- -1
hate that Singularity -- How extravagant to torment
himself from an uncertain appreiicnsign of tormenting me! — Can. a discreet man create him sels terrors, and yield without examination, to the slight appearance of danger?
Sir John will keep from me out of respect— —
will attempt to please Lady Belmour! -- -- -- He
will attempt to recover his liberty — to welcome di vtriions of which I partake not! Have I any need
of So much respest, Carolina? -- -- -- -- -- Have my
looks threatened him with an immediate dis miffion, if he presumes to conjecture 1 love not Frojly? My eyes, dear Carolina, my eyes, you may bdieve me, have never exp'resfed such a menace. -- -- Where has he got the unlucky notion?
“— Not from me I am sure.
But for this preposterous blunder of his reason, would he delight in Smiles I do not return, in words I do not Speak, in a ftiape I. do not animate, in fen Sations I do not cause? — I think not, Carolina. I
, H 5 have
[ 154 ]
shave conversed with his heart in spite of all hi efforts to conceal it from me.
Prudence and delicacy have Suppressfed, but not annihilated his feelings, love intrudes in every glance, in every step, in every motion : it lives in his voice, breathes on his features, embellishes his
manners__________so steadily diffident; -- -- -1 don’t
understand that — -- -- -- -- 1 bad no idea of it. -- -- -- --
You mistook the man, Carolina, surely you mistook him.
5 o’clock.
“Is not their behaviour a disgrace to decency ?” This I was inconsiderately going to ask Mrs. Brenton, when recollecting 1 had often been beguiled about the real Spring of, my thoughts, I Silenced this, left Spite rattier than virtue had inspired it.
If virtue, argued 1 with mysels, can So readily impeach, censure, debase, in what does it differ from malice and self-interest? Since So apt toffnd fault, am I not the stave of a Secret passion, and indulging a vice, rasher than favouring a virtue? — 1 blushed, Carolina, at my intended' indiscretion : but was my heart less afledted with the mirth of Sir John — with the mirth of Lady Belmour} — No; it was not.
“Who will Sir John dance with r” was the next question I trusted to my heart, and I went in quest of the lady I was to envy. The assiduity of Sir John clearly pointing to me Lady Belmour, 1 preiently played against her charms the indiicreet eye, and the still more indiscreet wit, of an injured rival.
Soon was I sslenced, Carolina, Lady Belmouf
is all beauty and accomplishment. — -- -- -- -1 had not
the assurance to be unjust — satire died on my tongue -- -- -- -- 1 applauded, ssghed — applauded and sighed
Th,
t
L J
m
Thy eyes, vistoria, would betray nie into a contradidlory knowledge of thy heart, were I to realise whatever they seem to express. Thou art not jealous, I hope -- -- art thou, Victoria? —
Jealous, dear aunt!
A half blush glanced on my cheek.
Cannot I undesigningly look on lady Behnour!
— Jealous of Lady Behnour I — -- -- -- -- -- -- -- what concern
have I with her ?Has Mr. Frojhy. -- -- -- --
Frojby! — -- -- -- -- -
And She maliciously fimpered upon me.
Half pasl 6. o’clock.
Why, Carolina, have I neglested thy instrustions' against ingenuity? How neceltary would it now be to look gay and indifferent, though my heart is full and uneasy! i’ll read thy letter again, that
I may beware of the man whom I -- -- -- -- -1 — find the
word, Carolina — xhzt I may beware of Mrs. Brenton -- -- beware of all wsho, .tempted by love or
friendship,. will vex me with their: conjectures;., or their jealousy .-
will banish nature out of my countenance, and
assume the garb of a courtier -- -- -- -1 will -- -- what
a Sliarne was itfufpedted I fear to be understood!!
-- -- me : not, Carolina -- -- -- -- -- write me ■■
not a word zhout Frojhy -- -- -- about Sir John .... —
unravel not the perplexities of my heart.
My aunt’s observation made me diffident of my air, the too faithful mirror of what palled in my heart. I (hook off the powerful sensibility, and dispoffefling my eyes of all their softness, hearkened to Frojhy.
Frojby had the humanity, by his constant attendance, to help me out of myself. I know not what caused him to be more than ordinary cheerful and entertaining; but he had almost Skill enough to dissipate my thoughts, and.remove Sir John and Lady Belmour from my mind..
After..
[ 156 ]
After a country dance, in which, by his spright linefs, he had added to the natural vivacity of my spirits, we stepped to the next room to breatlie the sresh air. My fan fell — we both instantly Stooped
■ -- in getting up, our lips met — i’ll tell thee no
more.' -- -- -- -- Write me, Carolina, why 1 did
not exclaim against the accident — why I was not displeased — why Frojly was agreeable to my eye — answer these queries, if thou canll.
8 o’clock.
Shad hardly come back to the company when
Sir John asked me how I liked his pictures — -- -- -
His pistures 1 I had Seen none.
The rooms are full of them — see none -- -- -- --
He contrasted his brow -- -- -- stammered out my
name, and with an angry look turned about, I think, on ihy honour, provoked and Swearing at me. -- -- -- -- --
Is the man So mighty fond of his pistures that he must neceltarily be displeased with me for not having observed them? No : Sir John is not Such
a coxcomb -- -- -- Some other reason — i looked for it
in his heart, and there 1 read in love’s charasters — “Had it not been for the presence arid conversation of Frojby, Victoria had zealously paid her homage to Raphael zxri corregioa
What would it avail me to distemble the Satisfaction I felt at the Secret intelligence ?That thou
mayest not exceed the bounds of probability, Carolina, and be more intent on the marvellous than the natural, I declare to thee I was pleased.
“Pleased, Victoria!” —
Well, then, I was delighted. -- -- -- -- -- Restrain
thy fancy, unless thou chufest to affix an impropriety to the sensation which stid into my breast — i was delighted with the sally of Sir John, and ap plaktled his anger,
I promised
[ IS ];
I promised myself, Frofiy Should meet with no more accidents, and even grudged the advantage
he had got in the last- -- -- will plainly tell thee
all, but banter me not -- -- -- -- 1 rubbed my lips in
order to Iweep away the kifs, as if by that action I could forget it had been Sealed upon them.
“How childish 1”
Explain to me, my mosi reasonable Carolina, how it is childish, when the refishess ■ emotion Springs from nature, love, and pleasure?
9 o’clock.
Frojby, having been Superlatively charming, had at last overdone himself. — But for a Sew Sparks of love and imagination, which now and then graced his tongue, and shone in his carriage, one would have Said he liad never felt, thought, or spoke.
Not far from him Sat thy Victoria, Seemingly as tired and stupid, but in reality loving, Sensible, and happy.
Our hearts, Carolina, are on all lides invesled
by powerful enemies — precipices Surround us -- -- -- -- -
Prudence faintly pointing out the almost invifibie path we might escape through, we naturally Set forwards, and blindly plunge into tiie dreadful abyss.
Imprudence is our lot. — Who will convince me it is not a duty to Sacrifice common scnse to the first impertinent emotion which Seizes upon us? Were not folly inherent to extreme susceptibility, should we so often renounce reason, and Swerve I from a necessary law?
There are objests which at once affest and rule the Soul j ill vain would we attempt to resist an impression that comes to invade, to conquer, and not
to parley. -- -- - — The attack, too sudden, and too
fierce, roots out the very desire of preparing, or guarding against it — then must we submit— — did
I —
I ‘ ' r 158 ]
I I — Fortune alone will I gratefully thank for not
il having been surprised, and lolally vanquished,
j n o’clock.
Cerlain that lhe heart of Sir John gave no as fent lo whatever his imaginalion might welcome,
! i and his longue pronounce, I ceased to perplex my
i self with the temporary honours of Lzdy Belmour,
: | and had the courage lo dart perpelual looks at
I them— — grew familiar with the light -- -- -- -1 never
I dreamed, Carolina, il was so full of dangers.: —
Pleasure which adds to the beauty of arx handsome woman, produced lhe same effest ctz Sir
John. -- -- His eyes blazed a fublle poison, which
I imperceptibly enlered every vein, and like an indelible
dye penetraied my inmost soul. — I — he — I |, know not, Carolina, how to make thee sensible of
lhe rapturous disorder he caused in my bosom— —
; lo explain the real sense of my feelings. -- -- -- -- -
: “How handsome he looks !” exclaimed I aloud.
i -- -- Mrs. Brenton Irod on my foot, and Sir Johtiy
I who was near us, immediately wheeled about.
; So delusive was the incentive which had forced
t
I these words from me, that I did not think of them,
i even after they had been uttered -- -- -- -- The pain
j of my loe, and the motion of Sir John, quickly
fet me lo rights.
How severely was I punished, Carolina, for not i having believed in thee! Had I renounced ingenu
^ ity as thou advifedst me, Should 1 have been so nigh
I falling a vistim to an iridiscreet impulse of nalure?
I did nol soon enough recover my countenance — the loving and overjoyed eye of Sir John encreased my trouble -- -- -- -- -1 Saw I was detested — what
i lo do? I Ihoughl of Frojby, and presently darted
upon him lhe remains of a confusion he had not
inspired. The deceit — why was it necessary! -- -- --
the deceit Succeeded to miracle.
Too
t 159 J
Too generous to fuspest me of hypocrisy. Sit looked vexed, and his cheek reddened with
all the pride of self-love. -- -- pleasure no longer
played on his features — Spite made him walk from
me — Spite brought him back. -- -- -- - “None, Said he,.
but the prepolselsed Lady Victoria, would have hazarded So preposterous an exclamation. -- -- -- Frojby
handsome !” and the audacious man flew away to Lady Behnour.
Will this man never Show his love but ifii., a
of anger? -- -- My Smiles, I am certain, told hirh
not to be vexed — had I Spoke, my language could.
not have been more plain and expressive- -- -- --
could he mistake them fur contempt. He has the finest eyes I ever Saw, yet knows not how to use them. I have heard of men who have no ears for the unhappy, but never of one who loved, and would not See he was loved again. Sir 'John is that original; his reason, like gold in the hands of a miler, is of no service to his happiness. Unless I Say expressively I love him, he will not believe it, nay then, perhaps, will think I banter. — Hear what 1 was compelled to do, and how little he understood me.
12 at Night.
Having left the gallery, altera few minutes conversation with Lady Belmour, She came to me. — At the time of my extreme fondness for Frojly, I
.had not the tenderness of her looks. -- -- -- -- Her
bosom panted So — I was confounded. She complained of the heal, and walked to lhe rooms; my heart would not suffer me lo let her 2: 0 alone : I followed, and joined her in lhe furtheli.
There is no brealhing in the gallery, said She, with an unaffested Smile, I wish a window or two were open.
Let us stay here, Madam, i’ll open one. —
I had
I ^
1 ]
I had hardly thrown up a fash window, when coming behind the curtain — “Speak not, Victoria, I my jealous lord is in search of me. Let us secretly
enjoy his ravings.” -- -- -
He presently appeared, and Seeing not his Lady, imagined She had entered a room whose door was i Shut. Thither he Stepped — “There lhe is, ” cried
he with a curse. Hearing a noise he listened — “They ligh, ” and another curse. His Lordship grew extravagant, and exclaimed aloud, “Now : “I am a cuckold i” The door would have been
broke open, had not Lady Belmour left her retreat, and upbraided him with his impertinent suspicions. He insisted, however, on looking behind the cur j tain, and was not a little Surprised to find me there
! instead of her gallant.
I Whilst She was Scolding, and he begging pardon,
I I could not help thinking a rendezvous had been
; concerted.
Sir John! Sir John! sighed I, I must: encourage thee to Speak thy love, ox Belmour wi d tear me from I thy heart. '
I He came, darted at me an. equivocal look of
love and anger, took her ladyship’s hand, and vow i ing she should not leave “her partner for her hus!
! ” led her in triumph to the gallery. The
I audacity of the man, though astonishing, was still
less so than the pastiveness of Lord Belmour. The injury he had done his wife by his idle exclamati i • on, had absolutely taken from him the power of I resenting the familiar behaviour of Sir John, and
i the yet more familiar compliance of her Ladyship.
I Had I not been interested in their amour, I would
have laughed at the stupid figure he made. Lord Belmour seems to love his Lady only to have a plausible pretext to make her unhappy.. Love ex cuses all, they say, I asshre thee his Lordship enjoys this privilege in its full extent.
As
C ii ]
As they walked, and Lord Belmour and I fol '* some whispers between them made me uneasy. I mended my pace, and just: as they exchanged a very exprestive smile, forgetting I was close to Sir John, I trod on his heel. The quickness of his motion prevented my retreat. His head disordered my toupee, and his mouth glanced on my cheek. He thought he had a right to my lips, but whilst I defended them, my bosom, unguarded, became his prey. -- -- -- He kisted it. My first impulse
was displeasure — the Second forgiveness. He appeared delighted with his theft — His looks pleased me. Had I returned the answer they Seemed to beg, I believe he had fallen at my Sect, and dissipated all my fears of a rival. I dared not, Carolina — Love made me forgive, but modesty commanded my countenance; no answer was given,
I o’clock.
The country dance was not finished -- -- -- we Sat
down to wait shr the next. There was a chair next Lady Belmour, but Sir John looking as if he desired a seat between us, and her Ladyship affesting not to comprehend that language, he stood before us, till a Lady by my fide getting up, I took her chair and gave him mine.
’tis kind -- -- -- -- very kind. You read my wish,
my Lady. —
Better than you do mine, Sir John. —
This, Carolina, was my mental answer- -- -- -- --
verbal w^s nothing. What elfe are words divested of sentiment??
Bathurjl, my good old friend Mrs. Ba thurji, pasted by us, stopped, and taking Sir john’s hand and mine in hers -- -- -- -
How fine a couple! what a pity these hands are not to be joined! —
I heard, and heard not, Carolina.
I deserve not that happiness. Madam —
Still
A
[ i62 J
, m ssiil did I choose to be absent.
Very few men do. Sir John. —
And putting my hand in his -- -- -- -- -
Would they were never to be parted! — ■
Thankyou, Madam. — -- -- -- -- -- -- --
I smiled, and very faintly drew my hand back. The eyes of Sir John brightened with love.
Is it possible? — are you sh earnest?? — --
thank her! -- -- -- -- --
And he trembled with joy.
Are you mad. Sir John? said Lady Belmour,. laughing. Would you have Lady Victoria answer
one jest but with another? -- -- -- --
Is it so. Lady Victoria? -- -- -- --
Could I Say no, Carolina?
It is, mumbled I. — -- -- -- --
Fool that I am! how could I mistake it! -...
He did not Say that Carolina, but expressed it in his manner of leaving his chair.
Believe me, my “it is” was as good an “it
“is not” as ever was pronounced -- -- -- He took it
for a banter.
He Stooped to my ear.
The despair of pleasing you. is enough, add not to it your contempt. —
And without waiting, for my answer he mixed with Lady Belmour in the dance.
His “despair of pleassng” joined to the despo tic voice of modesty, which, in despite of my heart, commands my obedience, will at last, 1 fear, prove - mortal to my iiappinefs. Could I speak, look, behave, more purposely to make him fuspect I love not Frojby. Did not all this together tell him,
“Sir John, you may talk -- -- -- -- -- if you do, lil
listen” ” -- great deal more could he have added to this -- -- -- but he chose to be deaf, blind,
and sslent,
That
I
I
[ 1^3 ]
The whole evening Sir John divided his assiduity '*♦ between Lady Belmour and me. To her he was
passionate— — me refpestful. -- 1 wished him to
mistake- -- -- - did not. Never till then did he
dart such sullen looks at Frojhy: often did he avoid Speaking to him, even to affestation — Sir John loves me — yet will not express what he feels I .Dis provoking.
brenton hall, 176 —
LETTER XXL
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
By heavens, it was unfair! — but for her ingenuity which I adore, though injurious in the highest degree, I would remember her virtue, only to exert all my powers against: it. — What transport to have that virtue panting in my arms after
its own destrustion -- -- seeking for life in its own
death I — Was not my soul Sufficiently racked by the certainty of her passion for Frojby, that it still wanted the odious exclamation, “how handsome he looks !” added to its exquisite sufferings??
“handsome he looks 1” 1 turned so suddenly, that Lady Victoria having not had time to remove from her eyes the complacency natural to the sentimental expression, I was tempted — yes, Frederick, tempted to think myself its only objest. Her intent look, her sudden blush — my eagerness
to bdieve, could not but deceive me. -- Pleasure
too hastily told her modesty the deceit I welcomed.
It gave too sudden life to my motions — she saw it — ^ was troubled — and immediately deshoyed that deceit by stepping to Frojby. What an insult to my pride and the delicacy of my feelings! Shame succeeded the imprudent joy — — — O, Victoria! too
defencelcfs
!
S
. [ 164 ]
* defenceless am I againsl thy beauty — too readily do I yield to, the smallesl hope of pleasing thee!
The more flattering my mistake had been, the more Senfibly did I feel its folly. Enraged at the fond diftinstion conferred upon Frojhy, I approached Lady Vic, oria, — Though by her countenance
She bespoke my refpest -- -- -- though every Seature
deadened my indignation -- -- -1 dared to arraign her
judgement — to reproach — Let me draw a veil, Frederick, over what is pasted — I will read Boileads Satire on women, and detest them — detest them I ' — don’t you laugh at the impertinent resolve? Detest women! ah I let N ature first blunt the fineness of the organs She gave, or totally deprive me of
every want! -- -- detest the only delight we enjoy in
life — be a stranger to the bewitching sensations they cause! How Shall I atone for the profane thought? Well Should I deserve to be the scorn of the fair, were I any longer to entertain the perverse desire 1
I o’clock.
A few words with Lady Vitlorfa. had wrapped up my whole countenance in a gloom — my soul was sunk in grief — pleasure had forsaken my veins and vanished from my heart.
But five minutes out of my sight, said Lady Belmour, smiling, and Sir John so wonderfully altered! — whence the amazing change? —
The new ideas which had intruded into my mind, rendering me absolutely impalsibie to her allurements I yawned an unintelligible answer, and casta stupid look upon her.
Amazing change indeed! —
Is it you, Belmour? -- -- -- and I awaked. — Stop,
thou reftless tormentor : stop, have mercy on me. — mitate not the Gods who delight in inspiring frutless desires— — generous, not unrelenting as they. My sadness, dear Belmour, is thy work; cease to please — to heighten the impression of thy
charms,
1
charms, or suffer illusion to yield to reality. -- -
My soul is on the wing -- -- -- let it fly -- -- fix on
thy lips -- -- -- play on thy bosom, and revel in thy
arms. — -- -- -- -
, I roused thee not to lull my virtue asleep— — voice is an enchantress I cannot help listening to — think not of me. —
Not think of thee! may that minute be mr
last- -- -- --
think but speak not. — There is a poison in thy words which charms every fense, and calls my Soul up to thee. — Nor look, for I see in thy eyes but the raptures of sin. — heigh ho! —
1 welcomed the heigh ho — in return breathed an inflamed one upon her breast, and gave it such life, as thy imagination, Frederick, can never comprehend. Its instant elasticity warned me that her Scruples were Silenced.
Her modesty winked at my inviting eye — consent was on her lips, deftre in every motion, transport in every Step. I whispered the Scene of bliss — lhe answered with a half smile, and whole complying blush.
It had been written, Frederick, above, below, or round me, in the book of unfeelshg fate, that happiness Should for ever keep in my view, and I for ever baulked of its enjoyment.
If at any time a rational man believes in demons and other fantasbc beings, it must certainly happen when his body and Soul are both Struck with the ele6tric fire of love. Thus circumstanced, folly is reason. — None, Frederick, am I tempted to think that Some busy brain of an he or lhe Spirit is hovering over my head, intent on mischies, and happy in tormenting me. — Ethereal rogues! would i could See and finger you! how I would re tvaru you for your officiousness.
5 o’clock.
‘., C 166 ]
* 5 o’clock.
I was Slipping out with the discretion of a devotee going to a rendezvous, sometimes carelessly, sometimes on tiptoe, sometimes turning my head through fear of Spies, when a letter upon the floor altra6ted my altention.
It was dirested to Frojby. My first impulse was to give it to him, but as he was at the further end of the gallery, and I would, by no means, lose the progress I had made towards the door, I put it in my pocket.
At lhe end of the long range of rooms that were laid open is a Salloon which my falher of libertine memory, had called The Salloon of lhe Gods, whose amours were represented in all that luxuri ancy of pastion, which their godships alone could feel and inspire. The floor and ceiling he inlaid with glass, that by the inversion of the figures he might revive his imagination with a glance at the charms of his female visitors. Thither he led the unfuspesting virgins ungenerousty to smile at the blusti his eager look and Their furprise naturally caused : thither I stew through a back stair to enjoy a more substantial bliss.
Three, four, five minutes elapsed— — ssgnal was given. I peeped through the key hole. Saw
nobody -- -- drew my ear to it, heard but the noise
of the dancers -- -- came back to m, seat.
Happening to recollest frojhy’s letter — we are not at all times generous, Frederick! — I opened it, and feeing the name of Emily Cranmer -- -- honour vanished,
man prevailed — I read it.
7 o’clock.
Under what sign of the heavens have I been burn, when I am compelled to think that the
severest
t
(
f
I 107 }
Severest misfortune, which I Should welcome as the most favourable event!
I have it in my power to root my rival from the heart of Lady Victoria, and I abhor the thought.
-- -- How could She Support the knowledge of his
perfidy? .how guilty is Frojby! how deservedly contemptible! — Far is Victoria from fufpesting though
daily falsehoods he imposes upon her! -- -- -- Read
the cursed leiter, Frederick; read it, and say, if thou darest, that most men of cliaraster are not more than rakes the enemies of virtue. I march publicly Surrounded wilh dangers; my designs are Irumpeled before me, easily may woman guard a gainst them but what arms has she against him who talks of peace, and lies in ambush to attack unawares in the dark?
To Richard Frosby,, Esq.
Why, dear Richard, do you require from me a promise I am not able to keep? how can I Jove you and not dread the charms of Lady Victoria? Can I be sure of a heart you daily expose to her beauty? Richard! neither my sensibility nor thy praises have yet rendered me unjust, or fiilily vain : Victoria is, and will be, a most formidable enemy to me. — of all passions, I know bul love — of all desires, that alone of making thee happy — of all Sentiments, the fear of losing thee. — 1 wish and breathe but for thee.
Thou hast taughl me love — by thee was I to be taught sorrow!! — tenderest expressions soften it nol — it withstands the luxuriant kifs. — How often, Richard, how often has it damped those very moments in which our Souls lavishly Sighed every thought away!
I repent rot of the Sacrifices I have made thee; they were my free gifts. — Could I in the critical hour when betrayed by Miss ^
stoleft
"L 105 J
, stolest into the place where I bathed — when by her left alone with thee — could I laik of lhe church? No; thee only I thoughl of — for thee I despised my glory, and Silenced my virtue. — In thy eyes I saw— — thy transports I found, the reward of the offering I made thee. Each concession of my modesty was a, step to my happiness : — thy triumph was mine. — Then thou Sworest but love — but love! what other allurement couldst thou have tempted me with? — But love! what would thy hand have availed me without thy heart?
Have I ever in those hours when I received and lavished delights — when panting in my arms thou hadst nothing to refuse, but all to grant — have I ever by an artful resistance, by a false tear, fondly
wheedled thee into marriage? -- -- Richard! dear
Richard .f I trusted my honour to thy love, not to ihy generosity— — thou the only amiable man upon earth, I would disdain to be indebted for thy hand to thy honesty.
Thy love, dear Richard, is the only equivalent
for my Sacrifices lo thee -- -- the only equivalent
which will Satisfy my honour.
Oh! approach not Lady Victoria; fly from her
-- -- -- -- -- pity my fond, my timid Soul -- -- -- -- it
quakes when I think of the lovely maid. Though
thou lovest her not, fly from her -- her Sight may
at length prove fatal to thy passionate Emily.
Tell me not to be composed, or Seek for pleasure but with me.
Emily Cranmer.
For once, Frederick, thou wilt conceive my feelings. -- -- -- Thy honesty needs not my love to fire
thee with indignation -- -- thy virtue has already
darted the bolt of contempt — thou hast thought of Victoria, and frojby’s, crime lias struck thee with all its horrors, — Hast thou ever heard of a rake So resolutely
L J
I
Solutely wicked as the virtuous frofiyt No r mo“ “men of honour alone can, under the fandlioil of an usurped reputation, thus refine upon vice, and unmoved indulge it in all its deformity. The wretch talks of love to Victoria, and enjoys all its raptures in the arms of Cranmer! Bold perjurer!
■ -- yet they all unite to praise him -- -- his failings
are not detested, hence he has none! O, Virtue!
I will hate thee — thou art more dangerous than, vice: fanstified knaves gave thee an innocent look the better to betray.
Shall frojiy’s guilt be concealed from Victoria f — No; She shall know all. — I musi — but will lhe believe me when passion pleads for the criminal?
— Can Site read and doubt? -- -- -- -- -- Unprepared for
the fatal news how her heart will bleed! — Though only indebted to chance for the secret of Etnily Cranmer, does not humanity oblige me to Screen her from infamy? — Who knows but both may be guiltless, and the letter designedly written and dropped by the hand of an enemy! — Frojhy loves not
Victoria! -- -- Credulous Emily! file poflesies his
heart, whilst thou art only the fancy of his youth, the amusement of shis leisure; he carries to thee the fire he receives from her, and quenches it oil thy bosom.
lo o’clock.
Absorbed in thought, my ears were absolutely beggared of their faculty of hearing. Whether the three gentle knocks had been given by Lady belmour, or her modcsty had, in my absence talked its cursed language, I was cheated of my happiness.
“shdeath! what’s become of them!! -- -- -- -- Saw
her lists way, ” -- -- -
It was Lord belmrufs voice. My senses imme iiately recovered. 1 arose and tip toed to th
I door
i. ^ J
p door. I peeped, and saw his Itordmip with .Ists arms across, and his eyes fixed on the falloon. — “Poor Belmour!” - — exclaimed he. “Now indeed art thou a cuckold” - — and he rubbed his forehead.
Not yet,, my Lord, said'lady Belmour stepping from behind a window curtain; not yet.: but had you come one minute later, you certainly would. — What alturance! -- -- -- -- -
It is the only answer to your suspicions- --
doto tjiat curtain. —
O
Have a care, my Lord j your courage will cool ' at the sight of the happy.man — your heart was not
formed tor such encounters. -- --
What! — Lzdy Victoria! -- -- -- --
I sheard no more, Irederick. My hopes being at an end, I decamped through the back stair, and returned to the gallery. Seeing none of them, 1 ' went to the rooms.
What! already tired, ladiesd come, Madam, and I took lady Belmour by the hand, you won’t surely leave your partner for your husband.
No, no. Sir John, I’H .follow you with all my heart. —
, : And away we trip.
Lady Belmour pressing my hand in hers — When thou art absent, k\r John, i'defy‘thee : thou canst conquer shut by surprise;; will prepare my virtue against its —
And I Belmour, will humble .that virtue, else I
deserve thee not. -- -- -- -- -
Wicked man! -- -- -- -
And she Smiled “I love thee.”
'W icked when I arm thee against myself!
And I returned her ishile.
At that very minute Lady Victoria trod upon my left heel. I turned upon my right, and lightly touched her cheek. 1 was tco near, Frederick, not to attempt her lips. 1 sought my way to them j
she disputed it with a Sir Jchn! Sir yohn /’’ and a,, fall of her head backwards. In that situation the bosom captivating my eyes, I gave a kifs to each of the whitest; roundest breasts I ever lelt or beheld. She instantly blushed out her indignation at my temerity, and reproached me, but faintly, as if she had feared to think or talk of a kifsj whilst Lady Belmour pulled my hand to her to warn me I robbed her of her due.
That kifs — that breast — I afi'ure thee, Frederick, they restored me to virtue.
I cannot repent, Lady Victoria. —
I led her hand to my heart which beat all the transports of love, and threw my sensations on my looks. — She loves Frojby — cmft upon him 1 Had she but Smiled — she would not Smile. —
Were 1 still the coxcomb thou hast known me,
I might, from a few circumslaiices which occurred that night, infer she has no dislike to me — nay possibly think I am not indifferent to her. She sometimes betrayed so much concern at my afiiduity to Lzkj Belmour — ftamxnered such feeling monosyllables, that though she suddenly reversed their meaning I — I will not entertain the thought — self-love bids me rejest it. Adieu.
Modijh half i / 6 —
LET E R XXII
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
I N the name of modesty, Victoria, canst thou be angry, if now I say Sir John is the man thou lovest? No; affestation is not in thy nature, thou wilt not be angry.
Sweet creature, thou lovest then — and Sir John Modijh is the man who has convinced thee thou
I 0. wert
'L J
^ wert deceived, wsho has chased Frojhy from thy heart.
Thy mistakes are no novelty to me. Long ago have I discovered thy indifference through the raving expressions thou coveredst it with.
Born with exquisite feelings, ever in want of being amused or affected, thou obeyedst thy natural tendency to love, whilst thy deluded fancy pointed to Frojly as the cause of thy emotion. Thou couldst have as easily been furprised into an inclination for a bird, a song, or a picture. As pride delights in the most distant homage, so does extreme sensibility in trifles, or things of the greatest moment
Thou lovedst not Frof y, as now thou dost Sir John; nor hadst thou ever removsh the veil with which thy prepoffession for the former had intanglcd thy understanding, but for the superiority of the latter which forced thee to Shake it off, to See with
thy own eyes., to judge with thy own reason. -- -- --
The burning torch he has put in thy bosom, has dispelled the gloom that encompassed ihy Soul, and .restored it to the exertion of its native rights. — Too Jong had these been invaded by the delicacy, of thy organs — too long had thy imagination swayed thy senses, heightened their illusion, and favoured Frojhy.
Thou art not the first, Victoria, that has erred with the full belief of being in the right. T'lioufands daily object to reason for the judge of their fensati
ons. -- -- ’tis the unavoidable effest of sensibility—
—.. — perhaps the greatest: advantage one can posies.
6 o’clock.
Write, talk, dream as thou wilt -- -- -- -- Sir John
thou must acknowledge for thy vistor. To that
new
C c3 ]
'*#
new cciety wilt thou dedicate a temple in thy heart — to him devote thy thoughts, and each minute of the day. — Happy votary,. whose sighs Shall be ever graciously received — who stiall never be exposed to a frown -- -- stiall never be denied by the
benevolent God!
Now, and now only, Victoria, mayest thou' think thyself fortunate, fmce thou hast reaforied thy heart into love, and art certain of Sir john’s affection -- -- But what will that affestion avail thee, if
convinced of thy constancy to Frojby, he has, and will have,, no notion he can ever please thee?
vchat children these men are! -- -- Hardly have
they adopted an. opinion, though ever So false, when they are unhappy till they persuade themselves its truth cannot possibly be questioned. Thus
do errors of every kind swarm over the globe -- -- --
thus do we seldom meet but with fools in every station. -- Did their extravagance hurt but themselves,
one might probably laugh at, or pity them
-- -- -- but when their folly endangers our peace,
and opposes our pleasures, laughter or pity were ridiculous.
8 o’clock.
Awake Sir John, Victoria, compel him to renounce the idle conceit he is infatuated with, lest time stiould render it too powerful. An old distemper yields not to common remedies; ’tis in its very beginning that a Skilful hand m, ust administer the infallible medicine. Sir John to be the patient 1
-- -- how, weak and dastai'dly are at times the most
undaunted men!
One look, one of thy languishing looks, Victoria, will suffice for his recovery. -- Could he be
So unreasonable as to restst a look! — If so — venture afmile, and I warrant him at thy feet. — His obstinacy could not withstand thy smile— — this,
I 3 vistory
II h4 ]
vistory is thine. No longer shall he then believ* in frojiy’s happiness— — longer contend with thee but in interrupted sighs, melting glances, fond ex
prelsions. — Would I were near thee when -- -- -- but
hush! the sight might be dangerous. — My heart is already too tender — it would be imprudent to give Lord Pelerjion so great an advantage.
Thou wilt neither look, nor Smile, Victoria 1
soresee it -- thou wilt not be Surpafl'ed in caprice
by Sir John. Heroic emulation !■ —! almost: repent having offered thee my advice — it is so ingenuous. — — How could 1 forget we live according to the wise laws of Opinion, not the absurd ones of Nature!
I will rank my jealous Lord Pelerjion with thee
and Sir John. -- -- He begs, earnestly begs, I will
pronounce the decisive words “I love you.” Till then, he says he cannot be sure of me — every beau frightens him into madness— — stupid! — Are we not happier when we wish and hope than when we postefs? I will comply with his request when he again offends — I will say “I love you, my Lord.” — Victoria, I will look for no other punishment — for no other revenge. Adieu.
London, 176 —
The End of thi Second volume;
THE
MISTAKES OF THE HEART;
o R,.
M E M O IRS
r
OF
Lady Carolina Pelham
AND
\
Lady Victoria nevil.
IN A SERIES Of letters
PUB LISHED BY
M. TREYSSAC DE VERGY,
gounseuor in the Parliaments of Paris and ssourdeaux.
At feeling hearts fing, nor ever miss the game.
Prior.
t ■'
IN THREE VOLUMES.
V O L III
DUBLIN:
Printed for J AMES Potts, and Thomas Walkkii,
Booksellers, in dame freet.
M DCC LXX
^. ■ ' CST ■ ^ "■' ' ■ •.
. ‘. '^ '.. ' .: '■.. ■ • ■ /-
^ ■. : l - / ■ V .' ■■ ■ .-
_>-., " ■'., i'; : ' r' ' >' ',. ■ • - ■. ■ _ ■'
^. -. „ - ■■ ^. ■ ^ r St.,.,
...' ‘ / V^ cn ■ V '
- - X .V^CO>; - ■ '
. - 'i, ...'-.-'- ■. : 5' tje'c. ■ A J’ -- < ' i > ■ '. - - '<■'!'• -- i, -, •. ...,
-'- ' y ^ ■ - .- '. • ' ^ - ' ■
.' " ' .: ■ •
V ' '■ A' -'.., ■ ^..
SL Vfi -
PPL ■': : : •' “sian ./,; •
'i C..L’ ' ■'- "
x;; -_ »•■ ■. ': - t - ■’• *-
, ' •; '
'.■' A .' ' ', ■", ‘ ' L.. L ' t '•■. ■*' •
.' -. ^ ' ■',
I X V C | .f ^, ^ ' ' LV.
^ - D A " • •:., Ai..; -: TT
imi ■ ■. ■ -; ■-.. -. ■..,
r' ' ■- - ■ ■■■''. ■, --.. J,, -■■,. -- ■ - -- _■
- ' - ■- ■ ' ■>' -- - -■ '- V.., >■ ■■
■; ■. - vltar.it•^^ C '■ i; .4.' ''• -'' ■ ' • '
■.; y
T ‘r t ^‘S ’■ s, ’■; :
L - " '■ ' V ‘ ■
N.. •.. .- * '., '. xt aria. '-^. S,, ■’■V •'
- ■ ’ ^ ’ • J" " '•*' ■ rt • V V Si' ' - VJ^" ■■' ‘ ' '••■'■ *' •■ '• “' •’
C ■.;. : "' r'v'i; ■ V" " ■ ■" ^' m ■' ^
J V :.; /s .'ll
L\ 'n; Sc '' ■'., n,, _ '-,. ',; '
■' 'As '. ' ' ' '. • ■ ’ rey ■' ' ■■’ '” ■■.'• ' ' ’ ' ’'■ f
j _ >. -. * ■ n ■ ri ^ - C '' .' ^ ‘ *' < ..^ '■■■ ' 'Cr.'.
V ^VV - 'An. AAA : : ri ■. : 'CLS, C •
■ f ■ -- ■, .• ' ■ : ' ._ ■ • ■. ^,
'•■
'^'FV' - ' 'VF. .J - '. y— — ■’; *,
-.. L : y ^ -- -, *.^ '? >. 'V r - *• -''' '. "' " ' ' sh
i ■• V.. f ^ •■ V ■ - '.ev ^ > ■
*■"* ' ■ ■, -. -. ' - '■ - -
■* •-■ ' s '■. ■ - ■ -. ■ ■ '.
■' ^ ‘ i i i II - ^ v. '•*.
^ ^, fri C<‘ ' ^ -; ra > ^.
:.. - ■ - ■^'■x^aa 'axf r _ i' 'i r ' •■
Dip *, # ox ^ * > —.
^ - ■ J
C, jcvv t - ■ y _. -- -• rs' ^____ L. ■' ^ *'
; / ■ -. Lt
I# ' 'a S'
■',. -. - - V ■' ■
- ■ ' - T ‘ V •. >
. /
MEMOIR S' '
F
)
m
¥
f
Lady Carolina Pelham
AND
I
Lady Victoria Nevil.
LETTER!.
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
the more I confider, Frederick, the less dif tinstly do I perceive what is right or wrong..
My head is the seat of perplexity and confusion— — throng of thoughts rush into it at once — as quickly vanish, and leave not the smallest trace behind.
A minister is not more dreadfully distrasted when the abettors of his defpotism, obeying the voice of self prefervation, give him up, on, a Sudden to the revenge of an injured people. — Though different the objests, our anxiety is the fame: : my concern, for the happiness of Lady Victoria yields not to his thirst after riches and command. — Shall I tell her of Frojby's guilt, that, by a timely contempt of the man, She may avoid the impending disgrace?? —
Will
I J
Will not the news be death to her? — I canne think of it without horror.
If I speak, will She not question my veracity, or mistake my pity for insult— — Ih^ not, in the excess of her grief, charge me with being the vile contriver? — My honour to be suspested! rather — — What Shall 1 do, Frederick, what shall I do?
Were I indifferent, how would I fly to undeceive Victoria! — Friendship would clrsh her ear — Ihe would listen — and though her loiil stiould be wrapped up in sorrow, dead to comfort,, her blood would naturally rise, and Sparkle hatred and dis dain upon the perfidious Frojhy.
Why did not Mrs. Brenton find the cursed letter 1 What an oversight in the favour Fortune intended
tor Lady Victoria! -- -- -- Unfortunate girl! stiall I
doom thee to misery?? — this must be thy lot, why Should I anticipate it? — No; I will leave thee in thy ignorance — 1 will not draw aside the veil which lies between thee and the fatal truth. — Let others strike the deadly blow from me thou lhak not have cause for one tear, a pretext for one lighu
Nine o’clock.
I thought, Frederick, that deceit and villainy had
their foie abode in courts — that courts alone could
%
produce Ihamelefs offenders, and daring impostors - — that everywhere elfe vice was restrained by tear — silenced by humanity — or conquered by religion. — I see that self-love reigns in every place — distates to every heart — justifies every action — blunts the stings of confcienee, and the yet stronger impulses of honour — All men are alike — different only is the stage on which they ast. — No dread of punilnment, no hope cf reward, will enable a soul to sacrifice its native longings after pleasure— — an evil beyond remedy, — An evil 1 ~ let me not revile Nature
I h9 J
ture by questioning her wisdom, and accustng her yj of error.
Frederick! I will not have the presumption to judge Frojhy — still less to condemn him. — He may have been placed in Such a circumstance — seen Such an attitude — caused Such a blush — felt fucn an emotion -- -- Thou knowest not the enchanting confusion
of a surprise;; — alone might intoxicate his
senses — compel him to infidelity. -- -- Who gazes
on beauty, and is not lost? who welcomes not the Supreme delight, and yields not to nature?
Why do we not always esteem those.whose errors we justify and forgive? Cannot sentiment be as.unblasted as reason?? do I defpise a man
whom I may, envy, nay furpafs.in guilt? -- -- - He
is loved! -- This, Frederick, changes the amiable
transhreffion into an odious one. — How could Fi'ojby lavish on Emily Cranmer an incense he had
devoteshto Victoria -- lavish the sacred exprestions
of love,., and impose on his heart to gratify his senses??
sudden, an involuntary deviation from constancy, I excuse; but Sedustion proves an equal want of love and honour. Is not the repetition of a fault a certainty we freely indulge it? Can our passion be sincere when we wish for raptures in .the arms of another? — No, Frederick, that desire is mere libertinism— — when we are loved — loved by a Victoria, how criminal the man who will delight in kisses not ravished from her lips! --
Events I am not yet acquainted with, which possibly may clear Frojby, forbid me to determine against him— — he be innocent! — Oh, Victoria! for thy sake may he be innocent! — Let him be ever so guilty, I will not be his accuser— — that liest in my sight to tempt me to basenefs, let -- ter of Emily Cranmer, .away \~ -- frojby shall have it
again —
► L J
fogain — — — What a sacrifice!! — only proof — No matter— — sent, Frederick. My virtue is safe.
modijjo hall, — 17 6 —
LETTER IL
Lady Victoria Nevil, to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
An D so, Carolina, .n disobedience to my commands, you have presumed to write that “Sir John is the man I love.” — You' have discovered from my last, that my heart no longer beats for Frojhy, — I admire thee! — Thou art ctrtiinly a
nonsuch for discernment! -- -- stray, how long
wert thou in Settling that point? --
“Only ’till I had done with thy letter, Victoria.” So long? -- --
Why, I had riot glanced over the first: page, when I Said, thou lovest '; v John.”
So Soon, Carolina? -- -- --
“Sooner still; — even before I had broke the feal.”
You was positively determined then to believe
in your own conceit? -- -
“Not so neither, Victoria, — From that silk“ “smile of Sir John pointed to thee” I formed my judgement, I had no need, I assure thee, of thy “how handsome he looks!”
Poor Lord Pelerjdon! I pity him. -- --
“Why pity him, Victoria?
Thou inay’st as well conssrue his delicacy into
jealousy, as my esteem for Sir John into love.
If so — poor Lord Pelerjion I say! — Thou delightcst surely in being wrong, Carolina, so ready art thou
to mistake. — Thou wast born to blunder. -- -- -- I
love Sir John! ha! ha! ha I.
«« Thou dost, Victoria
Ido!
[ ii J
/
I do! HI convince thee I do not. * ya
Though Lady Belmour be all beauty, all softness, all temptaticn, mark this, Carolina, I am not jealous. I Sleep well, eat hearty, have no op' ' at heart, no dislike to the presence of Frofy, breathe no impertinent sighs, and can answer a “Yes” or a No” to the purpose. — ^ —
Now art thou convinced I love not Kivjohn? —
“Thou dost, Victoria A
Still incredulous! -- -- Proud gid! -- --
brenton hall — i y 6 —
LET T E R III
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
Here is a new scene for thee, Victoria. ________
Learn from me how to humble haughty man, and behold him, with disdain, creeping at thy feet.
From a review of his follies, I had worked myself into a momentary indifference for Lord Pelerfon, when led by his evil genius, he chose that very minute to viiit me.
The wretch had on his brow the anxiety of a miser; his eyes, at one glance, surveyed every corner of my closet in quest of a rival, and .his tongue half with, half without motion, lisped “How do. you do. Madam ?”
His amazing that people of so brilliant a fancy as your lordship have not yet done with that old way of opening a conversation. Why don’t you leave the “how do you do” to a dostor? The Sound of these words is enough to give one the vapours for a whole day; -- it forces an apprehension
one is not well. — But, my Lord, what areyou
so intent upon? -- -- -- --
nothing— — — How do you, Carolina? —
And
. [ i82 ]
«
* And his eyes devoured the paper which lay on the table.
You look, so wildly that way, my Lord, do you
take that letter for a fantom? --
Not I indeed, Madam. — Why Should I be troubled for a letter? — That letter don’t vex me. — Will you be pleased. Sir, to sit, walk, or go
down to Lady Pelham? -- -- --
We may as well sit or walk here. --
And taking my hand he led me to a sopha, and Seated himself on a chair beside me.
Every day, my Lady, I bless the minute in which I saw you : — my heart had never known the delights it now enjoys. — Oh! how it beats wlren I am with you! — With what pleasure or despon dency it riles or falls, as you smile or frown! — A
beauty Should ever Smile. -- -- -
And his eyes again on the letter— —
Carolina — you hate me! -- --
I do not, my Lord. -- -- -
I see you do. -- -- Shall I always appear guilty,
tho’ incapable to offend? — Will not my passion be an excuse for my fears? — Were you not. six
lovely, I — -- -
What, my Lord id— — — letter -- -- -
i
That letter don’t vex you — does it -- -
That letter — (he kissed my hand) -- -- -- Whose
is it? --
Lord fanjly’s -- --
Lord Fanjly %! — Does he corefpond with you? — He — he once loved you. — Oh, Carolina! — a letter from him? —
Why not. My Lord? -- -- --
Why not! — Death! — The question is murder.
— Ahd he loves you still? --
He does. Sir. -- --
And you are pleased he does? —
I am, — — Right
[ 1s3 .]
Right woman! * ^
And he put on all the features of spite.
Not one in a thousand will say No, tho’ they hate the coxcomb, when a Yes will plague or mortify a lover. — Y ou love Lord Fanfly, very likely I —
Very likely I do -
again, on my honour! — Well, I don’t
believe it. -- -- -
The reason, pray? —
You — you have listened to me. —
Ha! ha! ha! — have you no better authority? —
Indeed — I ever feared it was a poororie. -- -
You grow rude, my Lord. —
Then you love me. — Sweet reproof! — ryou lov© me — that’s certain. —
r
. f
g. o’clock.
Evident was the consequence. My indiferetion put me so absolutely off my guard, that had he Ikiltully turned my confusion to his advantage, I really think I had not made h m wait long for the “I love you.his impertinent attention to Lord Fanflfz letter, not only gave me time to recover, but even power to laugh at him. — The fool, said I to myself, how could he Slip the opportunity!
Is it not very hot, my Lord? —
And I moved on my tiptoe to the window.
Very hot, my Lady, —
And he walked to the table.
Sir? -- --
Madam- -- -- -- -- -
a step further, I beg. -- - —
And I drew up the window for air.
Lord Pelerflon continued with his eyes fixed on the letter uncertain what to do. My bosom heaved — I sat down.
Shall I presume to ask your Lordship whether you intend to honour me with your conversation?? —

[ i84 ]
^ Honour you! — How you talk, my Lady — T
'converse with you is the highest fatisfastion — but for it I ssiould be miserable— —
he made two steps towards me.
Will it rain today, my Lord? —
Yes — I think not — it may happen. -- -- -
Yes — I think not — it may happen. — You arc immensely witty this morning —
Confusion I — Bantered when my heart is ready to break with sorrow! Is that generous? — Oh, Carolina I -- -
And he laid his hand on his breast.
You know not what pain I have here — how I suffer— — unhappy you make me. -- -- --
1 made no answer — got up — and took ray man iouna. —
Who could imagine that Lord Fanfly had been so base— — cowardly base as to love, after the repeated proofs of contempt you have heaped upon him! — From that man you condescend to receive, a letter — to read it — to be pleased with, it 1 — You almost declare you love him! — Ah!
And he gnashed his teeth, clasped his hands toe aether, shook his head, and threw himself on thd sopha.
How pastion deforms, Victaria / Lord peler flon, whose fv/eetnefs of features had attracted my attention — betrayed my heart into love, looked then so ugly, that it frightened me to the very
soul.
That monster my lover 1
I blushed at lhe thought — I quaked: — my legs, almost dipped from under me — my Mandolina dropped from my hand — I felt a tear of indignalion —
‘ eaned a minute upon the table — look up lhe letter — and making a curlefy as I pasted by his lordship— —
humble servant, my Lord. —
. Then
[ 185 1 *
Then bravely forcing a ha! ha! ha! I step * ped to the door.
Curse on love and sensibility!! --
Sir, if they have no other attendants but vexation and folly. —
Is it Carolina who thus mistakes the charaster of love for folly? — who thus upbraids me with vexing her? — You hate me. — Your hatred is ever the interpreter' of my astions. — How Should I not perpetually be wrong! — ^ — Oh, Carolina / —
He sighed, and reclined his head on the arm of the sopha.
You have put me, my Lord, out of conceit with lovers. — I will discard them all. —
Will you really? — Enchanting resolution- -- -- -- --
you delight my heart! — Speak the words again— — are life! — Carolina, will you really? —
And three leaps of joy brought him at my feet.
To Show you, my Lord, 1 am determined — I begimwitli your lordship, — ' How he looked, Victoria!
None have given me such a forfeit of love — — you have excelled in the art of making it odious —
I loathe its very name.
Not unlike the wretch hearing the fatal decree which condemns him to instant death. Lord Pelerjion remained motionless on his knee — his lips half disclosed to let out a complaint, or a sigh- -- eyes down in all the fadness of despair.
I had the heart, Victoria, to enjoy his sorrow
to triumph in his confusion— — dart upon him a glance of contempt — I even felt a spark of hatred Itrike my heart — call my soul up. — I turned from
him, and opening the door -- -- -
Well may you stare, my Lord, at what I have Said. — Little did you dream of my just displeasure— — have heard me. — Never will I receive the homage of a man who breathes but to
displease.
. is ]
*" displease— — loves but to offend. -- -- When
you have learned to esteem me, I may possibly
learn to forgive you. -- -- -- -
Ahd I shut the door after me..
Lord, Fanfly to be the cause of a rupture between.
Lord Pelerflon and me! -- -- From what an insig
nificant'spring No matter — his absolutely a
rupture for -- -- - Another Such scene, Victloria, and.
adieu to. love!
London — 176* —
LETTER IV
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
WHO. would not laugh at the ridiculous casualties proceeding from love, gallantry, ahd the whole train of passions?? are such, Frederick, that a man of sense, in his Sober hours, ' cannot have the least idea of them.
‘ We know nob.the twentieth part of the follies ^ we may successively be entertained or vexed with. -- -- -- -- What a diverftty. • how extensive the circle in which they are cohtained 1 — One whinr produces a thousand. — None but a Newton in morals could ascribe to our thoughts their just limits, and discover their slow, ebb and attradiion. T hey come Separate, or in crowds, to hasten or retard the tide of deftre : — fubjest to no rule, impatient of command, they daringly intrude, and. as confidently sway.
Surely, Frederick, the organs of a rational being’ have no conformity with those of a senseless Sage who will tell us in a losty. diicourfe, we must, on his word, believe Nature the flave of the Will,
though (lie supremely disposes of our fenses. is
not the Subjedting the creator to the created a mighty judicious proof of our. power of acting and
thinking?
f
[ is; ]
thinking? How strange and inconsistent such lans ** ‘
! — how still more impertinent our credulity '
Could I lord it over my thoughts would I no immediately remove the intolerable scruple which preys upon my mind? Would I hesitate to fly to
the arms of Lady Belmour? -- -- Would 1 stop on
the very verge of pleasure, and baulk my fancy of a rapturous and certain enjoyment?
How came I all of a sudden, to grow conscientious?? not that delicacy very unteafonable, Frederick, since it is at enmity with prudence, which bids me renounce the odious guest?? I myself only to upbraid for the folly, would not you think me a notorious offender against reason and self intereft? Who would pity me for sufferings I chose to be loaded with?
I have not been guilty, Frederick, of so inconsiderate a blunder. — The sentiment, unfelt, entered my heart with the idea of Lady Victoria, and imperceptibly united itself so closely with my passion for her, that to this minute it has braved my utmost endeavours, and insolently kept inseparable from it.
Had I any hopes of pleasing, my delicacy might be overlooked, and appear less absurd; but 1 have none, and can yet sacrifice a present joy to the chimerical honour of being constant and virtuous to no purpose— — ridiculous!
. Had 1 outlived the feason of feeling, a remorse.. two might be convenient to enliven the dying Spirits, — — Besides, foolilhnefs as well as wisdom ought to have its day. — I would not grudge it: — but at my age! — As nothing is of continuance, and we must tor a time be the sport of the reigning caprice, I will patiently wait till the fit is over.
-- -- Scruple! on my word, Frederick, I never
dreamed I could welcome the hateful sensation. How I came by the word is no less aftonishing — it was
not
. t i88 J
r
V not in the courtier’s Distionary I am Sure. — I never thought it could exist where ib much evil is
daily committed. -- -- -- O, Victoria! thy eyes have
taught me what is not in the power of lawyers to feel, or bishops to demonslrate..
adodijio hall — 1/6 —
L E T T E R V
Lady Victoria Nevil, to Lady Carolina.
Pj?; lham.
IT would seem, dear Carolina, that they liave all united to torment me -- -- -- -- -- yes, all; 1 except
none, not even Mrs. Brenton.
The methods they have taken are still more unr -- sufferable than the vexation itfell.
Frojhy besets me with an increase of love, flattery and attention.
Mrs. Brenton with an inquisitive eye, and unrelenting curiosity.
Sir John with so unaffested a gaiety. So natural' an indifference, as if his heart was abfolutely free.
I have no Sears fox Frojhy -- no tongue for Mrs.
Brenton -- -- -- no patience for Sir John — ^ — I am displeased
at them all..
I have just told Sophy I am not well, and'choose to be alone. — I don’t like the looks of Sophy — they betray a suspicion — dart a desire to Search into my
heart — follow my Steps — watch my motions. -- -- -- -- -- -
She had the indiicretion. this, morning, to venture a fear I was not happy, as I had, last; night breathed many a sigh— — broken words. — Now has she alarmed Mrs. Brenton — they come — here they are — Soolilh Sophy! -- --; —
Eleven o’clock.
What ails thee, Victoria? -- -- Sophy has Srigfit’*
ened me — thou art not Sick, I hope. -- -- -- -- -- -- -
Never
I i J
I »
Never was Ishetter, Madam- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
then dost thou deftre to she alone? — Seldom is solitude a friend, Victoria. — Will not my
'Company be more acceptable? -- -- -- --
It will, dear Aunt. -- -- -
Sophy was ordered out, and Mrs. Brenton taking me in her arms —
Ishy heart, Victoria, indulges itself too often on thy features; its secrets are written in thy eyes; ■they pierce through the veil of thy modesty.
. the discretion of thy words, through thy most insignificant smiles I h've even seen them play in the very looks thou astumedft to hide them. Thou lowest, Victoria — that is the cause of thy
anxiety. Is it not? -- --
Jt is — and 1 sighed.
Sir John may make thee happy, Victoria: — but are not thy hopes of being so better founded on the temper and virtues of Frofy? — Shall a Slight acquaintance of a few months prevail over so many - years of mutual friendsliip^ confidence and love? —
I think it will — —
Remember Frofiy loves thee — remember thou hast tacitly entered into an engngement with him, by receiving his vows, and encouraging his ad dreftes. — Shouidft thou now give way to a new flame, would not thy delicacy Suffer? — ■
It Would not. — ivjight not T hear of love, talk
of it, and still be a dupe to my fancy? -- --
Thy change will be taken for levity. -- -- -
If I loved not, where is the levity? —
My all, Victoria, would I sacrifice to free thee from the least unealiness. — From my tenderness expest an implicit compliance with thy desires— — — thou mayest always command; — whether thou determines! for Sir John modijioqx Frojby, my consent is thine. — But, dear Victoria, remember Frojiy loves thee — remember he had the Sanstion
of
I J
0-
# of thy parents — of thy aunt — of thyself— — on tsts merit — confider what the world will say — though thy heart should be blameless— — nothing could be objected to thy choice of Sir John, llander, envy and malice may raise their voice, and
bitterly exclaim against thee. --
If you love and esteem your niece, ’tis enough. — • Kxxjahn has many enemies — Frojby has none. — ■ Sir John knows not of thy inclination for him — by still doubting it, he even seems averse to know if. — He never openly either talked or asted as a
lover. — Did he privately? — -- -- --
No' -- -- -- --
Art thou not afraid then, Victoria, to yield to a palsion which thou art not certain of having in i'pired? -- -- -
Is it my aunt — my dear aunt, I hear? -- -- --
And tears forced their way down my cheek. What have I said that ean vex my Victoria? —
Have I not left thee at full liberty ?-
At full liberty when you so Strongly declare for Frojby, and expatiate on my indiferetion; when you draw so frightful a pisture of dangers I dreaded not, as the natural consequence of what you term “my levity; — at full liberty! — By saying“ “John has many enemies, and Frojly none’* don’t you point out the m; n yon have fixed on for your Victoria? — Am I at full liberty when you prefer Frojhy ?• -- -- -- --
When Frojby and I exchanged asturances of eternal love, did not we silently agree that that eternity Sliou id laftsho longer than our illusion?? — V e mutually promise we Should never meet, he with a handsomer woman, I with a more amiable man? — How could we then engage for what nest there of us foresaw?? — it been in our power, fiiould 1 now be in need of an apology? — which is most justly to be reproached with infidelity? —
he
L 191 ]
he for having ceased to please- -- I, for having *
ceased to love? -- -- -- -
hast thou so ftristly inquired into thy heart, Victoria, as To be perfestly convinced of the change? -- -- -
I have been so often surprised into different emotions
-- -- -- been by turns such a flave of every
one, that 1 am not yet able to know which has the greatest effest on my sensibility— — dear Aunt, my irresolution is against Frojby. — Since I hesitate,
I love him not. -- -- -- -- --
What quality in Sir John -- -- -- -- -
None — all together have favoured him. -- -- -- -
Is Frojly inferior to Sir John m birth, riches,
wit or merit? -- -- Are not his excellent parts fuf
ficientjy heightened by the beauty of his person?? — If impartiality could point out a sensible difference between them, would you expect less equity
Trom friendship -- -- --
Or love, Victoria? -- -- -- --
Or love, dear .Aunt? What accomplishments have not both nature and education bestowed on
shir John! -- -- Istlce so many darts they strike to
the very, heart, and leave no other sensation but
that of the wound they give -- -- -- -- -
What canst: thou promise thyself from a pastion he is a stranger to? -- -
He vis not: — he loves. — his generosity ascribe
his silence- -- -- thinks 1 love — ever will
love, Frojhy. — respect ties his tongue. — Oh! how he would talk had he your Sagacity and could read as well! — —
How little does .Frojhy suspest thy inconstancy!
-- -- -- So long an inclination! -- -- -- -- So iudden an
indifference- -- -- -- -
was a mistake of my heart, a deceit of my imagination. Carolina, who ever thought it would ■at last prove so, often inveighed against my fupini
t J
., ty, and advised me to lijsten to reason— — never did — nor would — nor believed it possible till Sir
John forced me to reflest: — then Frojhy -- --
Lost all the interest he had got in thy heart. —.
1 fear he did— — ~
feareft he did? -- -- -- -
I do. — Is there a greater torment than to be indifferent to theobjeht we love? -- -- --
How excellent my Victoria, would her pity guard her against a new passion, and engage her
to make Frojhy happy? -- -- -- -- --
I Ihook my head.
Would it were possible, dear Madam! -- -- -- -
It is — thy virtue proves it -- -- -- doubt not thy
power, Victoria. -- --
My heart tells me I have it not. — -- -- -
But one attempt — and thy heart will tell thee thou hast it. -- -- -
It throbs with too much pleasure at the thought of Sir John — You see I am unable to conceal its emotion. — A new life is sprung up in me. ’.ds
not Frojhy who gave it. -- --
Wouldst thou listen to thy generosity give way to the benevolence of thy soul — I know that froj
hy’s misery Shall be agony to thee -- -- thou never
could’ft look on a wretch without partaking of his sorrow— — Victoria! —
I will endeavour to command my sentiments— — me not to succeed, or even to entertain long a desire to conquer. — Nature cannot be kept under. — I will avoid the sight of Sir John — will
see but Frojby. -- Say but you are happy, and I
shall not repine at being made miserable- -- -
Brenton walked, seemingly disturbed, and twice exclaimed “Poor Frojiy!” — A tear ran down her cheek. — I was moved.
dispofe of your niece, dear Madam : my gratitude allures you of my obedience.
No,
C 193 1
No, Viaorla.^ -- -- - —
And (he pressed me to her bosom.
Though I ftiould be happy to see thee feel agreeable to my wishes, I will not force them upon thee My esteem for Frojby shall ever yield to my tenderness for thee. -- -1 will forget, if possible, that he
loves thee, that he was favoured with thy affesti
ons — favoured with my interest- -- -- he never
gave thee a reason for thy change. — Thou knowest my late suspicions of him were groundless;; of all my inquiry no discovery has been made. — Pdor Frofby! What will he not suffer for the loss of thee! — My heart bleeds for him — so does thine, Victoria — that, tear betrays thee — hide it not, ’tis a praise to thy virtue — an honour to thy fenssbi lity. — .......
I will say with you poor Frojby /” — But what
is pity to a man we cannot love? — -- --
It fufcens the cruelty of his sstuation. — Undeceive not brojby — Qt. him still continue in his illu
sson. -- Thy concern will look like tenderhefs,
let him be happy as long as possible— — cold by degrees; thy indifference, well managed, may
possibly have no effest upon him. -- His attacli
ment deserves this from thee. — Tell me not that honour bids thee avoid his declarations — true honour is to be just and humane. -- -- --
I know no arts : he will immediately guess me. — you taught me to be true — to Shudder at a lie.
-- -- My confusion will speak— — will feel I think
not what I say. -- -- -
Frojhy will see no art in thee -- If he does he
loves thee not. — That art, if it Should she discovered, will turn to thy glory: — ’tis a virtue when prastised to do good. -- -- i
A chariot entering the courtyard, Mrs. Brenton stepped to the window.
K ■ .Dis
L J
.dissir yiff/l'ii, Victoria... ...
She observed my countenance. I smiled. Now for thy heart. —
And she laid her hand upon it.
How it beats! — The emotion is too pleasing to
deprive thee of it --
And she hugged me in her arms.
But, Victoria, you will not see Sir John — Did
not you say you would see nobody? --
I did not think he would come. - —
And I killed her hand.
How ingenuous! — I believe thee. — —
She gently patted me on the shoulder, and went to receive Sir John.
The conversation wish my aunt having thrown my spirits into a flutter, I remained in my closet
to compose myself- -- -- sight of she letter I
had begun tempted me. I Sat down — wrote — now and then stopped to remember Sir John was below — tose up — took she pen again — loid thee all —
but Sir John — I must to him. -- -- -- -- Had he longed
to see me he had been up before now — not a word
of impaiience has been sent to me -- oh! lhat’s
bad, very bad. — More company! — I am glad of it; it will help me out of myself— — is it I
hear iripping about in the next room ?Hush!!
. — laiks to Sophy. — ’tis Sir Johtfs voice — no, his Frojby s. — i’ll Aide through the back ftairs.
I o’clock.
I will not cast back one thought on Sir John Modijh. — All the lenfibilities of that man keep unmoved at my sight; -- -- not one spark of unusual
joy appears in his eyes; — he makes a bow with his head half turned to another lady, and hardly, after five minutes, diitinguishes me in the circle. — Then he deigns to nod over his shoulder, as great men do to those they protest, or want to deceive,
— “I
C 195 ]
-- -- I see you, ” is the expression of that nod. ^
■ — Impertinent! — don’t I deserve, Carolina, more than than one distant“ “see you ?” - — One sigh— — i’ll to the company again.
Twelve minutes past One.
In entering the room I made a false step, and
Sprained my ankle -- -- -- Ilhrieked — then, indeed.
Sir John flew to me. -- -- -- How 1 liked his looks I
— how full of tenderness and anxiety! -- -- Had it
not been for pain, which destroyed the illufi; n, I Should have thought it was himself who suffered-
-- --! exclaimed I — I wanted the “alas” to
excuse a blush.
Sir John, too much affested to talk, contented
himself to look, and tender me his arm. -- -- -- -- --
Could he possibly be more eloquent? — He supported me, and vvith two more “Alafes!” I limped to a chair.
My aunt, Frojhy, all were inslantly on the wing to relieve me. — The filent, but sentimental Sir John dared to lay a finger on my anste.
Ay, there it pains, said I, turning my eye from the new falhioned dostor.
Is there any swelling, Sir John, asked Miss Ellison??
hope not, Miss— — -
tell you that immediately, said Frojby, kneeling, and advancing his handavith the solemnity of a quack.
Touch it not, Sir, you will (mart it. —
And I drew my foot under the chair.
Ladies, I am much better -- -- -- -- -- at first: the
pain was intolerable : it subsided- -- -- -- sit
down. -- -- --
% f
Sir John, trusting to this, (hook off the con tern he had betrayed, resumed his coldness, and
went to Miss Ellison- -- -- had a mind to Shriek
again.
K 2 Knowing
L ^ J
Knowing that he alone had Hungary water, I asked for somehow exquisite his organs I how rapid his motions! his bottle was in my hand before I had half uttered my want of it.
I finest the water -- bathed my temples with it
— said it did me good — gave the bottle back -- -- -- -
smiled my thanks. -- -- -- He prattles so agreeably
with everybody, why, with me, has he no tongue? — He was going from me —
Sir, will you spare me a few drops? —.
And I looked for my handkstchief.
’tis at your command. Madam. —
Nobody, has his accent, Carolina. .Dis so soft, so tender, so expressive, even when indifferent. — Would he talk of love — my harp would have no string I could tune to it. —
I unfolded the handkerchief.
Shall I —
And he held the bottle over it. if you please. Sir. — -
His hand was unsteady -- -- he looked at me —
then poured some drops -- -- -- then looking at me
again, misted my handkerchief, and spilled it on my ruffles.
Kivjohn! —
He half blushed, half smiled, half opened his lips — the bottle Slid from his fingers — dewn upon me ran the Hungary wtter.
I instantly Shook my apron at him — not angrily, believe me.
Now, Sir, we are even, since I have given you a (hare in the jest you intended upon me. —
I intended none. —
I knew it as well as he, Carolina. However, as no feature contradisted what he Said —
Then, Sir, I am Sorry. —
And taking the dry part of my apron, I offered to wipe the wet part of his coat.
I owe
[ 197 1
I owe to you this fatisfastion. Sir John I give it with pleasure— —
stammered“ “— held my arm, apologised for his blunder, and bowingl^refpestfully, stepped back to his seat. —
If Kir John had not been observed, Carolina, he would not have stammered “Madam, ” but spoke out wha t my heart hast welcomed. — I could not mistake his countenance — there the compliment he would have paid me was written : I eassly read every word. — T hat language is not to be uttered, ’fis certainly peculiar to lovers.
Mrs. Brenton whispering that so much perfume would infallibly give me a headache, I retired to put on another dress, and tell thee of Sir John. — The clock strikes three — I hear Sophy — they wait for me. — Adieu.
brenton hall, 176 —
L E T T E R VI
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
A R E you in earriest, Frederick, when you be jtjl lieve that “Miss Cranmer, must have monopolised every charm, since she has robbed i/j.ciy Victoria of frojhy’s heart?” Can any conseqiierice be drawn from the most blind and fantastic of Raf
_
ssons? Does Sensibility reason with the powers hy which it is Swayed, and coldly turn the Scale to the fide of merit or beauty? Love thiriks not of the advantages he may either lose or gain : iiisorganization differing totally from that cf indifference, he ■ judges not agreeable to thy principles : he dreams cf no virtues, wishes for no pleasures, but tho/e which his favourite objest possesses or inspires.
Instead of Love, read Imagination — I know no difference between them.
K 3 After
1
I 1981
after.the numberless instances the world you live in daily affords you, stis amazing you Should entertain so chimerical a notion. don’t you see men of every rank forsake the lovely partners of their bed for women so void of honour and delicacy that I would blush to ihrow one look or compliment upon them?
Miss Cranmer, Frederick, may talk as lhe feels — postefs such features as would have called for the whole genius of an Appelles, yet not, like Lady Victoria, delight the heart, and ravish the imagination.
Lady Victoria is the darling of Nature — a peculiar instance of the utmost stretch of her creating
power. When you gaze upon her -- -- -- -- -- when you
listen to her voice -- ’tis not your eyes -- ’tis not
your ears that are struck with the lovely features,, the mustcal expression, but your soul which, inst nuating itself into every fibre of these organs, looks, hears, enjoys the supreme ecstasy.
Miss Cranmer may surprise, throw the senses into a fever of burning desires, but will her taste, and understanding equally please and enchant? In our pastion for Victoria, Frederick, love and judgement astist one another, and would even outlive her beauty.
Nine o’clock.
Duval, expert as he is at discoveries, has not yet been able to have more than one glance of Miss Cranmer, and to give me just now the following information.
Miss Cranmer is a young lady of great fortune, who, by the untimely death of her parents, falling under the guardianship of an uncle, a devotee to the roinish religion, was sent over to France to be brought up in a nunnery, whence she came back a twelvemonth ago on the news of her uncle being suddenly attacked with the palsy.
Mr.
0
[ 199 ] •
Mr. Cranmer is still indisposed.
Emily keeps him constant company -- -- -- -- seldom
goes out — reqeives a few friends, amongst whom are Mr. Frojhy and miss Fllifon.
miss Cranmer is finely made, of exquisite beauty, extremely good-natured, tender, compastionate.
— She employs two thirds of her income in asts of generosity and beneficence. — Never was want unsatisfied at her gate.
Reading is Irer favourite amusement— — and then file argues vvith the vicar of the parish, and \yhen he is likely to turn victor in reasoning, which, however, is very Seldom the case, (he silences him with a bon mot, and with a Smile, presently transforms his learning into nonsense.
This, Frederick, is a slight Sketch of the character of Miss Cranmer.
Duval, who knowip.g not why I sent him for that intelligence, imagines a Sudden inclination may be the cause of it, was prosufe in his praises of the young lady. He was very nigli making an odious comparison, when I interposed by his enough — be gone.” ■
Here he is — A letter!
The bearer rode away as soon as he had delivered it.
Some mysteiy I warrant ye, Frederick -- -- -- -- let
me See.
To Sir John Modijh.
“Is Sorrow So entertaining, or the indifference of lady Victoria lb grateful, that no woman cast divert Kvcjohn from the first, or remove the latter from his heart? — Will nothing revive his taste for pleasure, and Snatch his languid Sou! from its mortal letiiargy?
You please not. Sir John, and can tamely bear with contempt, tamely cringe at the feet of an imperious beauty! — — Shall Frojhy be elated at your
K 4 disgrace? — ^
„ L 200 J
disgrace— — add to his glory, by stili wearing the fetters his chained you with!
How welcome to his pride are her aversion, and your successless love r — How ridiculous you
appear in his presence! -- - — You can tamely bear
with such indignities, and I neither abhor, nor despise you!
Alas! Sir John, why did I see you unhappy! — why did I pity you! — .Dill that fatal day, my life pasted in delightful tranquillity — 1 never dreamed of love— — heart was free from trouble, and my eyes never shed a tear, but of joy and pleasure.
We both love — By what strange fate do we mutually love where we are mutually distiked! — vic icria! Frofoy! How fortunate in their passions J — how rapturous the hours they pafs together! — Had we such hours — far from envying, how we stiould be envied!
Often have my looks Spoke the feelings of my soul — often did it sty to my lips, and yet — Oh, Sir John I what an enemy has your preposteffion been to our peace and felicity! how many days, lost in vexation and tears, had been enlivened by love end sensibility!! carefully had I cherished the illufk n!
Thou hast Seen me — distinguished me with thy esteem — more than once whispered in my ear — and still thou knowest not the Soul thou hast inflamed! — Seek for me among those thou visttest — among those whom thou hast praised, and, in an innocent frolic, surprised with a kifs. — Which of them blushed at the touch of thy lips, and trembling received the salute?? -- I still a stranger to
thee? — If sono longer, guard the secret from thy tongue — trust it not to thy eye — keep it from thy tvhole countenance. — -1 should die with confusion,
shouldst
[ 201 ] J
sh.ouldfl thou ....Oh, Sir John! how I love
thee I —
•*
\
Who is this lady? What a style! — What fire in her expression!! —
“of them blushed at the touch of thy bps, and trembling received thy salute?? — of them? — I will not consider, Frederick, Jest by the knowledge of the lady I should encrease my ini fery by her disappointment. — My courage would fail me under the additional grief — Let me for ever be ignorant of a remediless evil — to know it were. intolerable.
How come they all to think I love? — •! never told it. — Is it Frofoy who thus spreads my shame and his glory? — Whence could he fufpe£l me for a rival? — Where? When? — Vain questions! Does not my heart daily betray itself at the sight of Victioria — at the very sound of her name r — How acute the eye of a lover! how quickly he judges our motions, and ailigns the real cause!
Am I then a child in distimulation, that I am So eastly unmasked?? — pity me I curse on their pity! — Was it not the fear of a repulse — my pride, not my generosity, that kept the painful Secret from my lips, yet am I deprived of the advantages which ought to have resulted from my silence!! —
lie undisguised before them all — I suffer for having entertained a diffidence of myself- -- not
having had the baseness to perplex two lovers, and oppose their happiness!! — I — I must either speak— — speak— — in mischief, or by giving my senses up to lady Belmour, tear my heart from Victoria— — pity me 1 Infamous, by heavens! —. '
modijh bally — 176 -- -- -- -
K 5; L E TO
[ 202 ]
LETTER VIL
_ '
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
HAD! ill my feet the velocity of a beau’s tongue, fwist as a beam of the fun would i fly to thee every day, were it but for half an hour. — No more could friendship possibly Steal from love and pleasure— — in hassan hour many are the sentiments, many the words, we could feel and utter.
Let me see. — -- -- Three minutes to praises, and
five to C mplaints of our lovers -- tento the
secret wisnes of our hearts two to sighs- -- -- -
to Slander, and six to dress. what other
topics could we fall upon what else dream of ?'
• — ril tell thee what- -- has just entered my
head. -- -- Instead of three minutes in favour of our
lovers, let us employ them in a plot against: them. — “Against our lovers, Carolina Yes, against them. Who knows but they are all errant rogues! When love insolently silences reason, is it not next to a miracle if we mistake not vice for virtue, and wisdom for folly r —
I am vexed to the soul, Victoria, when I think that the power of our pretty faces Shall hardly outlive the first transports of a husband.
I was about sixteen, when a Chinese Gold phea fant, the first I had ever Seen, was presented me. As tame in reality, as a new admirer in appearance, it became my foie delight. So fond was I of the lovely creature, that 1 neglected dress, assemblies, and the whole train of youthful pleasures. For a whole month it rested on my lap. Slept on my toilet, was fed Vv'ith my own hand, .and had all the ccmpliments, caresses and kisses I could procure or bestow— — the end, Victoria. I had imperceptibly overstrained my sensibility— —
had
[ 203 ]
I had gazed on every feature, admu ed every ssiade*
of the colours. — Novelty vanished -- -- 1 grey cold
-- -- — tired — The Pheasant was sent to the country. — Never since have. I wished for it. — Only one month! — On my word there is no comfort in the thought. — The Pheasant was as beautiful as ever, — All Saidfo. — Oh! Nature, Nature! — Does not novelty constitute three parts of what the world ' calls constancy?? — -
“afraid l Aots, Carolina A Why then, stis high time to discard our fro/bys, yiodi/hes, Pekrjhns, .and form a new Set. —
vvhat think you of an elopement with the first: tempting spark fortune shall throw in your way? This, of all modern follies, I should like best : ten to one, chance would treat us more favourably than our own judgement.
I have yet heard but of one couple that repented of a trip to Scotland, whilst moll of thole married in London wear the features of disgust and sorrow— — give you the reason. Marriage, like religion,, wants free votaries. As perfecu'don produces enthufiasm, love fubfists through opposition-
-- -- start, Victoria yyoxxx heart objects to rny
proposal- -- -- not thy virtue for it. Were
thy relations the reverse of what they are, foost would thy fancy relish it. — — Troubles and difn ' culties are noble enticements to indiferetion. — We cannot know in a calm how we stiould behave' in a storm. I have heard a very Sensible man protest, that the judge who Sentences a wretch to death, would himself commit the same crime, were he in the same circumstances. If so, what
art thou, human wisdom?? -- -- --! do I not
speak sense— — Victoria! ’tis hoxd pelerjtofs fault. Chearfuliy would 1 vmte thee a few fond impertinences. I am not always ambitious to think when I ean feel. — Of late I am .grown so duli —
L have
[ 204 1
*1 have not, this fortnight, had one pleasing reverie — my nights are the lively pi(51: iire of the day’s
sorrow— — dreams! -- -- -- -- -1 always see Lord
Pelerjion ready to offend, and, what is still worse, Victoria, always graceful and handsome- -- --
ceitful hearts Should not be so agreeably lodged. — Heigh ho! how long Shall I refuse his visits?? exasperated me so, when last I Saw him, that he has had no opportunity since to Say he repents — to hear I forgive. — He has written, he has looked,
he has sighed- -- -- answer, no look, ro sigh has
been returned. -- -- Were I certain he never would
displease, quickly would I love shim again; but what hopes, if jealousy is part of his life? Shall a weak woman be more powerful than nature! Though beauty might lull a few symptoms asieep,
the disorder would still fubfift. jealousy! what
a poison art thou, that no antidote can be found against thee!
London — 176^ —
* * * * *
'P. S. Beset with So many dangers, I am afto nished, Victoria, at thy tranquillity. What! not one fear of Lady Belmour — Lady Belmour, the only woman I would not venture Lord Pelerjion with! I will not tell thee of the numberless good
qualities which must endear her to a lover. -- --
’'lis enough for thee to know that her reputation being unspotted, her overthrow is the most diftin guislied honour a man can desire— — John may be inflamed with a burning impatience to obtain that honour. — — Vanity — the neceslity of diverting thee from his thoughts — curiosity— — many enemies hast thou to apprehend! Rely not on his love for thee, Victoria — confider he believes thee infatuated vtixh Frojby — From this foolish credulity of his hast thou more to fear, tiian from his pas ii6n to hope. Adieu.
L E T[
[ J
LETTER VIII
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
OF all legislators, Frederick, none has excelled Mahomet in knowledge of the human heart, made laws more adapted to our nature, better calculated for universal compliance. — None — but no more of Mahomet,
No matter what name men give to their failings. The necessity of their existence will ever baffle the attempts of those who would reason us into a perfection which we are fated never to know. Since they have a tongue to speak as a stomach to digest, let us not imitate then folly by prescribing what they must either eat or believe.
1 will receive no law but from my wants: as these call for the immediate recovery of my liberty,
I will welcome any remedy that may procure it. In vain Shall I hope for a perfect cure, So long as I refuse the benevolent aid of pleasure, and oppose not dissipation to love : in vain Shall I argue myself into indifference : — weak are words to triumph o ver passion.
Begone thou timorous voice of scruple, begone! — Cease to persecute me, to tear my heart with thy unmanly language 1 — Begone! thou art but deceit and lolly!
To thee, O pleasure! — forgive if I had forsaken thee — to thee I devote my future days, and intrust: my happiness. Strike me with thy most poignant transports; purify my blood from every particle of love; let me not receive an impression, delight in a thought, feel a sensation but what is thine. Invite all thy raptures, forget none capable to intoxicate and delude, that surrounded by thy magic veil, the charms of Lady Victoria may but play upon my heart. —
I long
t 206 J
fiv 1* J
I lofig for the sight of Lady Belmour — for a look of my fair Incognita. My impatient imagination flies to meet them, quickens their steps, forms their features of desire and modesty, makes them talk, answers them, sees their bosoms heave, hears their sighs, creates every motion, opens their arms, graces their fall, enlivens the happy minute — Begone, thou timorous voice of scruple!! — longer will I listen. to thy impertinent delicacy — begone!
•modijh hall, — 176 —
LETTER IX
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
SURELY Miss Ellison believes' I am not in the least concerned in the behaviour of Sir John, since vdth a smiling countenance. She has represented him to me as the vilest of men.
She was absolutely. out of charadfer, for though Ihe now and then indulges her spleen against her neighbours, I never knew her Severe in her expression, or expatiate long on the disagreeable theme. She has lavished her abuse with such unusual spirit, that one would think Some real interest warmed her breast, and Sharpened her wit..
Sir John may be fiery in his temper, impatient of constraint, faulty in his morals, not over scru pulous in the choice of his pleasures, but has be no merit to plead for indulgence — no good quality to blunt the keen arrows of malice or envy? How unreasonable, Carolina, to weigh the vices only of a man in the Scale of reputation! Shall a few errors obliterate every virtue? .Dis ungenerous to ascribe to reflection the wanderings of the senses! This direit violation of the rules of equity and common sense may perhaps be fashionable in the
polite
i 207 J
polite circle to fill up a tedious Sunday evenirig^ But for this inexhaustible spring of conversation, how many heads without ideas! how many tongues' without meaning!
Miss Ellison.. am afraid, has in her last journey to London too freely complied with the tea table, chat of the modern fine ladies, elfe would Ihe yield to her wonted good nature, excuse rather than impeach, commend rather than despise, forgive rather than condemn.
t
Seven o’clock.
Sir John Modifo is, ‘‘ in her humble opinion, a most despicable fellow.” — She knows, for certain, that under the mein of apparent carelefliiess his heart is ever Studious of deceit and mischief. — He has such a pliant temper that he can modify it into as many different shapes as he has interests to
promote. -- -- Opportunities are at his command,
and they are the more fuccessful as they are never foreseen. — Then he grows So intolerable a tyrant over the innocent victim he has wheedled to deftruction, that hatred naturally Succeeding to her love, a rupture follows, the whole blame of which
is thus artfully forced upon her. -- By this means
he has the address to pass for a man of honour a mong those whom the charms of his wit and figure
inspire with a prepofieffion in his favour.” -- --
Who gave you, Mils, So minute a detail of the
actions and character of Sir John? — -- -- -- —
Who, miss I — why, everybody in London, every
body in the country. -- -- -
And you implicitly bdieve what everybody told you? -- -- --
Jt is too extraordinary, I confess, to be easily credited : but why mistrust people who had no motive to impose on my credulity? — — —
How
[ 208 3
How came you to find everybody so unconcerned, and yet so ready to defame him? Did they all know him? Had they all studied his temper, watched his connexions, shared in his pleasures?? —
! my lady, people need not so intimate an acquaintance with a man to know what he is. His public behaviour is an unerring thermometer of his' worth : by it our esteem or contempt rises or falls. How could we attain a greater certainty of his character?? would be convised, were we to judge of the guilty upon the foie testimony of our eyes? Fine indeed, were we to trust to that sense alone for our opinion of men! It would be high time, truly, to oppose an attack when we see victory in the looks of the enemy, and our heart is half disposed to submit— — may fparp your suspicions, my Lady, and generously mistrust what I was told, and tell you of Sir john’s character— — not, however, I have magnified it: I gave it you in miniature. -- -- --
You are mighty charitable, Miss— — picture is finely coloured — there wants but — — the likeness. -- -- -- -- -
You don’t think it finished then? — -- -- -
I do not. — r
How averse we are to believe anything that may prejudice a lover! -- -- -
A lover, Miss!! -- --
my Lady, a lover. Does not Sir John
love you? -- -- -
Love me 1 Have you been told that too by everybody ?■ -- -- --
Can you affirm he does not? -- --
How can I affirm or deny what I am not certain
of? -- -- -- -
Thou art a mysterious girl, Victoria. — And so thou hast done with thy sincerity??
I not answered you ?- —
Are
N
[ 209 ].
Are words an answer, Victoria? -- -- -- -- -
Suppose Sir John loves me, or loves me not. What then? -- -- -- --
I did not ask thee a supposition, Victoria. --
I cannot give you anything more positive- -- -- -
you have a certainty, put the question to
Sir John. -- -- -- --
How she coloured, Carolina f
Shall I do it in thy name, Victoria? —
And she sheered.
I have no curiosity, Miss. As you have, pray do it in your own. -- -- -
Friendship is ever wrong when its language a grees not wilh our inclinations. — I have made the remark twenty times in my life, and yet I could speak!! — I known, Victoria, thou waft so attached to Sir John, I had been filent. — .Dis folly to attempt the cure of a heart that loathes the remedy. — —
I fear, Ellison, this is your cash. —
I don’t understand you, Victoria. -- -- -- --
And she looked disturbed.
You are not yourself, Miss. I know not my discreet friend in the abusive Ellison— — has perplexed you? —
Perplexed me! exclaimed She immediately with an affeshed Smile. Why, thy intolerable incredulity — thy morti'ying diffidence of me — thy imputing to self intereft motives which only flow from
my friendship for thee. -- -- -- -
How can I believe your account of Sir John, when you believe it not yourself— —
is a riddle indeed — How will you explain it, Victoria? -- --
By telling you that, being absolutely ignorant of his love and demerits, you intended to banter, not convince me of either — that you are too just to be partial, too generous to offend. —
’tis
[ 210 ]
Tis a iiard task to persuade her who will not believe, — I will leave off a topic so odious to thy heart. I talked as a friend — thou Shalt not upbraid me if thy infatuation be one day fatal to thee. — ■ — — '
Eleven o’clock,
Didii thou ever hear, Carolina, of an opinioi' so obstinately defended, of a curiosity so indiscreetly inquisitive, of a calumny so openly pursued?? this extraordinary proceeding? — A cause must be found. — Shall i look for it in love, hatred or indifference?
Indifference is not injurious — Love! can love vilify, or even suppose a defe(sl in the favourite objet?? —! — has Sir John offended Miss EU
lifon? -- Both were here on Monday. — Both —
far from appearing his enemy, I thought her behaviour came nearer familiarity than reserve.
She suffered him to smell a nosegay She wore at ' her bosom. Smiled at his eager look, and started not at a sudden touch of his lips. — Was not the man very bold, Carolina f Ellison blustied not — I did — Oh 1 Sir John, it was not right— — heart ceased to beat -- -1 ihought I should faint.
He admired her ring — she immediately put it on his finger, protested it never appeared to greater advantage, and moved that finger every way to see the play of the brilliants. Her wantonness pleased
him — he grew less sensible of my presence- -- --
kissed her hand — I hated heri
She praised his laste in dress, made him twice relate a foreign anecdote, and Iwice showed lhe same delight at hearing it. — At last she whispered me ‘‘ None, Victoria, zktdi less wit xx\zn Kvc John, yet who difeovers so much!” Two days ago he
washer idol, today he is her scorn!! -- --
amazed.
Till
f II ]
Till now Miss Ellison never attempted to talk me into a dislike of Sir John; often has She comi^ mended his parts, oftener Still made me observe the dignity of his gait, the gracefulness of his motion. What can so Soon have incensed her?
When Sir John fiist came into the country, people making very free with his manners and character, miss Ellison alone dared to rise in his defence, and glance at frailties She ascribed to the politeness of the age.
“kirjohnf’ Said stie often,. “is gay, intriguing, faithless. Wonder not at that any more than at the ignorance of a bishop, or the effrontory of Doctor They are all in character.”
Can any glaring foible of his unknown to thee, Carolina, have come to her ear? Was not his conduct thoroughly scrutinised at his first appearance amongst us? I will not believe it, so anxious were they for discoveries, so happy, as they termed it,, in their intelligence, and so well disposed to debase him.
Sir John visits everywhere else as a courtier -- -- -
here only as a friend. With others he counts the minutes — - with us he forgets the hours. — Is not this, Carolina, his greatest crime, the crime that cannot be forgiven? Would not he be faultless in the eyes of Miss Ellison could She, like thy Victoriay command the attendance, and fix the levity of Sir John? Does not her pride grudge me an advantage lhe wishes to enjoy? Is not her contempt of him a relief to her spite??
told me of Lady Belmour, of Sir John — what did fly not tell me? — Were I to believe but the half, Carolitia, of all her Strokes this was the keenest. It went to my very soul. My heart flew to my eyes to melt into tears — my breath was quick — how intent were her looks! how Ihe would have known what palted within mel — few tears
warned.
[ 212 J
'warned me of my indiferetion. -- -- Dear Ellison,
exclaimed I, Spare thywirtuethe criminal narration : let me hear no more: it becomes us shot to dwell on Such topics.
Why a tear, Victoria, since thou hast no concern with Sir John and Lady Belmour f -- -- -- -
i esteemed her Ladyship — -- -- -- you tell me cf
her Sail -- -- Can you be surprised at my sensibility
.
miss Ellison laughed, v’ent on, but said so much that I thought it both foolish and indecent to give ' ear to her.
Certain, Carolina, that thy friendship form is as sincere as thy virtue, thee alone will 1 trust for Sir character; by thee alone shall my opinion
be ruled.
Brenton ha! I, 176 — —
LETTER X
V..
John Modish to Lord Pelham.
\
* *
AS rapid in my amours, Frederick, as Cafar in his wars, 1 loved, attacked and conquered. The honour of my former victories I partook
with fortune; this is mine alone. -- Of all my
triumphs, this is the noblest;; glory in no other.
My fenses have been gratified with the most lively transports, the most; rapturous bliss. The banquet was most luxuriousty inviting — I feasted on the bosom of Lady Belmour, forgot every Scruple on her lips, and lost Victoria in her arms.
Love and justice conspired against Lord Belmour. He himself, Frederick, by throwing numberless obstacles in my way. Solicited me to the delights I have enjoyed. He, more attractively than his lady’s beauty and virtue, heightened my desires, inflamed my imagination. He run before his fate to
meet
1213 ]
meet the punllhment due to tyrannical husbands '• from me, as the minister predestined to execute the irrevocable decree, has he received it. How, when and where thou (halt know. — Thou rebuk est: me, Frederick, For once I will make an apology— — this Sketch of the man’s private life.
Educated in all the insolence of birth, richer and power. Lord Belmour thinks himself the centre round which men ought to move in search ot fortune and happiness.
His ambition and profligacy keep even pace, nor is it easy to diftinguish which is grown most familiar to his heart.
His contempt of honour can only be equalled by the baseness of his soul : never was a man of his rank less enamoured of virtue, and more lavish of its sacred language.
That tyranny which he now exerts over men of genius, he once exerted over his amiable lady. In the infancy of their marriage, he presuraed that, in his hands, fly should, like wax, be modified to his fancy; he would have had her perpetually sympathise with his follies, never fluctuate between his inclination and her own judgement. He furnished herlshrary, presided at her toilet, chose her music, preferibed her amufernents, formed her society. He carried his authority sofar as to order her motions, and dictate the degree of wit she was to display at home or abroad.
Lady Belmour, whom her pious mother had carefully brought up in the reasonable fear of devils being ready to seize upon her at the first deviation from her conjugal duty, and hourly tutored on the sacred prerogative of her lord, for a long while smothered her complaints, and concealed her tears.
So long as file Saw the devils, and trembled in the dark, ftie remained passively obedient. But Sir Henry Ravenfor, her brother, returning from
his
L J
ft'' '■
, his travels, the infernal band vanished -- -- -- -- nature
mutinied -- -- -- called aloud for liberty, and threatened
Lord Belmour with an open rebellion.
Six o’c ock.
Sir Henry loved his sister too tenderly not to perceive she was unhappy, and attempt to procure her a life more suitable to her age, rank and fortune.
The difficulty was incredible, the success doubtful. He had to combat bigotry, eyer most obstinate in the practice of superficial duties, when religion orders them not, and the ferocity of a man born with an innate hatred to benevolence.
For two months Lady Ravenfor continued deaf to his folicitationsi Her love for him, not reason, at length convinced her that the solitude in which her daughter was buried, was not only an attack upon her liberty, but a temptation to her virtue.
Lord Belmour was more intra: able. As he loved but himself, his mind was dead to perfuafton, as his heart to generosity. He couid not patiently think of a diminution of his power, much less an impeachment of his wisdom. He swore that so unusual a request betrayed in Lady Belmour a heart already corrupted, or ripe for corruption. He would listen to no mediator, damned the thoughts of one, and would in his fury, have forbid Sir Henry hishowfc, had not his cowardice warned him to be prudent.
As neither virtue nor reason could work Lord Belmour out of his savage obstinacy. Sir Henry vowed his Sister should no longer be the sport of his ridiculous caprice, and insisted on immediately carrying her to Lady Ravenjor, unless he would allow her all the privileges inherent to a woman of quality, and free her from his odious tyranny.
Awed
t 2*5 J
Awed by his firmness, Lord Belmour, after mumbling a number of unintelligible curses, sat down pensive, perplexed, irresolute, when his Lady entered the room with a modest, but assured countenance.
I have heard all, my Lord, and Since my brother has so generously taken upon him the protection of his unhappy sister— —
— What do I hear? —
The language of truth, my Lord. My sufferings have been too great. Still Should they be unknown, had you been humane enough to respect: the delicacy of my sex, and not mistrust my virtue. -- -- --
Stranger still 1 Had you once opposed my entreaties, i -- but you always readily yielded to them.
Was it against your inclination that you preferred the retired Scenes of Brampton park to the noisy abode of Grofaenor square? —
My Lord, you never gave me a choice to make, but a command to obey.
The conversation, Frederick, was continued with the same spirit, till Lord Belmour, diftracsted by the fear of losing an immense fortune, reluctantly submitted.
From that day Lady Belmour enlarged the circle of her acquaintance, passed her winters in London, and visited Bath and Tunbridge whenever She had a mind to add to, or Share in their pleasures,
The freedom She enjoyed was a torment to his Lordship — her happiness his death. To embitter it, he Set every engine at work which imagination, animated by malice, could Suggesh
He deserted her bed for that of an abandoned prostitute, he — and the wretch talks of a divorce. — Lord Belmour of a divorce J
How aftonishing that in Fngland, where the women are so amiable, So worthy of adoration, that
there
♦
^ L 210 J
'there are husbands publkkly drowned in debauch — that these very husbands will talk of a divorce! ’fdeath! and our wise senate will not make a law to fereen a defenceless sex from the vile attempts of their daring, though guilty persecutors!!
o’dock.
Can a woman be guilty whose husband has taught her to despise her duty by first throwing himself into the paths of libertinism?? he complain of her vices who first razed every virtue from her heart? "Would a general arraign the bravery of his troops if, sending them armlefs against a powerful enemy, they were subdued and taken? No : Their defeat would disgrace but himself.
I have seldom heard of a woman whom her husband has not first tempted into gallantry, and never of a husband who would acknowledge the necessity of her infidelity. O man, man, how vain, how inconsistent thou art!
When I met Lady Belmour in London, I had been so lately engaged with Mrs. Howard that, though I thought it a most meritorious at to chastise her Lord, I could not possibly abandon a woman, still in the firli fervency of her love for me. I gave, however, a few hints of my intention, and as Soon as 1 was at liberty to pay my devoirs to her, without hurting my honour and generosity, flew to grojvenor fquare.
I found in Lady Belmour all the qualities I had long wished for in a mistress, and ever despaired to find. A graceful form, unaffected wit, charming vivacity, delicate sentiment, attractive ingenuity, the look of love, the voice of pleasure, the smile of desire, were ail blended, all united, all either exacting homage, or calling for a kifs.
Whether Lady Belmour was really virtuous, was otherwise engaged, or her hour of loving'was not
yet
[ 217 3
yet come, my attacks, for some weeks, proved un fuccefsfiil. In vain had I fet all the batteries of nature and art in play against; her, had not her husband forced her to capitulate by depriving her of all means of defence.
He once heightened her indignation to such a degree, that falling on suddenly when anger suppressed her usual valour, I instantly took pofteffion of the outworks, seized every avenue. Stormed, was almost master of the place, when a sneeze announcing the presence of the governor I was compelled to retire, just time enough to recover myin offenlive look. Oh, Frederick! favoured by victory, yet to lose the day! how I raved and cursed!
A favourable opportunity in love, as in war, once lost is seldom regained. The next day Lord and Lady Belmour fet off for Bath.
Time, absence, new intrigues, chased her from my heart, ’till coming hither on the V ings of love and curiosity. Fortune threw me in her way, and revived the almost extinguished flame.
No neck was ever formed more purposely for the sight, no breast for the touch, no lips for the kifs, no arms to incircle the happy lover, no tongue
to warm him with all the enthusiasm of love. -- -- -
Her motions — Oh, Frederick, not blood, but an heavenly spirit gives each limb its proper a61; ivity — >
lhe moves but to enjoy. -- -- -- — Could you see the
languor of her eye -- -- could you. heave with her
pantings in the minute lhe — My hand shakes — the pen drops.
modijh hall, 176 —
L L F T
*
... J
LETTER XL
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
imusl contrive, Victoria, to have my inclination opposed: : is the only way to make me insensible to the bad qualities of Lord Pelerfon.
Our love has no poignancy in it. A flowery path grows at length disgustful;; lonely rock, and a Steep hill, are often more pleasing to the eye. i'vly head is too cool, Victoria:! see, hear and judge as if I had no heart. No foible, no imper, ttnence of Lord Pelerfon escapes me : I could al mosi fng his faults and my indifference. My reaion carries it too clear againsl passion— — plain I love him not.
i/udy Pelham and my brother openly take his pari, laugh at my uneasiness, justify his indifcre i ions: from these attempts in his favour I Shall certainly hate him.
1 detested Fancy because I was ordered to love him — what is the difference between leave and
command? For my part, I see none. -- -- -- -- 1 am
sure I Should dislike to walk, did not the weather sometimes turn bad and oppose my inclination.
Men say they know us -- -- why then do they
zdi as if they knew us not? We are certainly of value enough to deserve the pains of being won; they are convinced of it, and yet they foolishly mistake the means. They tease us with tempting sighs, fruitless desires, attract every sense, amuse each, and six none. Had a lover in the pursuit of a heart the sagacity he Shows in that of a place or pension, poor woman! would I exclaim:
and really, Victoria, how Should we resist ?-

[219]
II
The unskilfulness of men befriends us more than our virtue. Whose fault is it? not mine. Adieu,
********
r"
One word more, sweet girl.
I have forgiven Lord Pelerflon, and admitted him to the honour of helping me on with my glove — • but what will it avail him to be in favour again if he knows not how to deserve it? His jealousy will not do, for the more he is afraid of losing me, the less do I care for him. Are not his apprehensions a certainty I am necessary to his happiness?? my word, I am not generous enough to give
myself up to him for that alone -- -1 will have
my Share in his happiness, or from me he shall have none. When he is at my feet looking, talking, sighing, to be sure he has great advantages. I reflect not then on his faults; but he is hardly out of the room, when I fing, dance, play and forget him. He is, by turns, every tiling and nothing to me : I cannot help it.
The gentleman having Solemnly vowed to renounce his former follies has, with them lost his fprightlinefs, is dwindled into a downright dotard of sixty, and will now talk nothing but grave nonsense. If 1 gape or yawn he don’t mind it. — He has seen me do the same at a Charity sermon, and very likely imagines ’tis a compliment I pay him; for it matters not, with some men, what sensations they give us, if they are but pleased with themselves.
When not alone with me he is stupid, and even then have I with myself a few exclamations of wonder how I can love him. -- 1 must give him leave
to be impertinent again. Under that form he has sallies which may amuse me; bul this he now assumes is as inconsistent with wit or humour, Victoria, as affection would be wilh thy beauty.
L 2 I Ipoiletl
C L 220 J
*' I spoiled my pretty face this morning with some patches, a toupee ten inches high, and a load of powder to put him out of conceit with it, or at least have an half hour’s quarrel. I looked so frightful, Victoria, I durft not cast: a glance at the
glass. I was ashamed of the ridiculous fancy --
I was wrong, for my Lord assured me that the patches and toupee gave my features a charming je northeast fcais quoi he had never discovered before. I burst into laughter, turned him out, rang for Lucy, Sat down to my toilet, and in ten minutes was myself again.
An undisputed Sway is the most disagreeable advantage one can postess; his instant death to the flattering certainty we deserve it. I scorn such power. If modesty blushes at a praise Truth gives her, what must she not suffer when Flattery bestows it!
At the rate Lord Pelerjion goes on i’ll outrun him; he shall not catch me. — Another course must he take, or he shall sigh, eternally sigh, without the poor comfort of a smile, ’tis his fault; why does he not know better? Were he to say to himself“ “that I am! instead of feeding her vanity, let me alarm it - — let my assiduity, by
degrees, fink into neglect -- let her be jealous
of me, not I of her.” -- -- - — — — Were he to say
so, Victoria, -- -- and to accordingly, shen
indeed — the odds would be against me.
London, 176"" • ...
L £ T
0
\
[ 221 I ^
LETTER XII
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
IT was one o’clock — That I may be mors certain, for in these important events I am exact to a Second, let me take a peep at my Journal of Intrigues. I was wrong. Just eleven minutes past one, last Tuesday, as 1 was driving furiously through a narrow lane, 1 run against a chariot with such amazing velocity, that it unluckily overturned, and one of the wheels split in pieces. The accident was So sudden, that neither horses nor postilions had time or thought to prevent it. I heard a Shriek, and knowing Lord belmoufs livery, immediately alighted and stew to the relief of Lady Belmour.
“Lady Belmour, Sir John /”
Yes, Lady Belmour, Frederick, vdth all her smiles and graces. —
How I hate myself, my Lady I — •
And my looks, Frederick, absolutely told her the contrary.
I don’t believe you, Sir John. You are too fond of conquest not to rejoice in my fall. —
Happy omen! whispered I. — But are you not hurt? —
Not in the least. —
I presented my hand, and helped her out of the chariot.
Could I not have the pleasure of your company. Sir John, but by running the rilk of my life? — And she smiled.
The servants coming up I made no answer. Where was you going, my Lady ?-^^ --
To brenton hall. —
So was I. — ■
L 3 Twas
* [ 222 J
* ’twas a lie. Start not, Vreieruk. Falsehood and curiosity are the most familiar sins of women and lovers — no pleasure without them.
If foi will ride in your coach.
And She chearfuliy stepped in, direst; ing some of her people to follow, and the rest to go home.
'Is not this a droll accident. Sir John? How could Lord Belmour prevent this tete a tete with you and in your own coach? —
Fortune, dear Belmour, delights in defeating the foresight of jealous husbands, and complimenting youth and beauty with the power of revenge. — And I ravifiied a kifs.
Fy, Sir John! steal a kiss'on the high way! — Well, take it back, let me not have it on my
confcienee. -- -- -- -- -
And I returned it on her lips.
Did you not purposely overturn my chariot, you
mischievous man? — -- -- -- -
Had not the accident nearly proved tragical, I would glory in having caused it. -- -- You are worthy
to inspire so happy an invention, fiill worthier
lo reap the benefit of it. -- --
And then — -- -- -- -- —
No fneezer to fear, dear Belmour -- -- -- -*
And then — -- -- -- --
Are you mad. Sir John? How presuming!! people -- -- -- -^ —
he blinds were pulled up -- -- then down -- -- -- -
then -- -- Frank and Tom drove so furiously— —
to do? how dispofe of one’s self, Frederick, in a damned flying coach surrounded by four servants, in broad day lighl?
Shall your lord’s Genius still prevail over mine? -- -- --
She gave me a gentle pal on the cheek.
He w'lli conquer. Sir John, I see you are unlucky. —
^ m «
The
‘. C 223 ]
The jest: Was keen, Frederick, though fostened by a sigh.
i’]l punish thee, Belmour. -- -- -
And then -- -- -
Stop, thou unfeasonable tormentor, stop. Sir John! -- -- -- in this coach! -- What wilt thou attempt! -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Preposterous! keep off thy roving
hand — that blind — What will the servants think!
-- -- Hold — Receive this, and this, and this, and
this, as a certainty of thy triumph over Belmour. —
She blessed me with three kisl'es.
isxasst no jiiore — Spare my delicacy the fear of a surprise- -- -
thou lovest me, Belmour. -- -
. Is not thy victory over my modesty a certain pledge of my love for thee?? -- -
nol complete, fortune favours me but sty halves — ihy Lord is still the conqueror. -- - —
Is he so. Sir John, wiiea my virtue has suffered thee in my;; rms? --
Ah, Belmour I let us equal his punishment to thy wrongs. — Remember how guilty — how undeserving the pleasures thou canst give. will Such an
opportunity offer again? — Is he not thy shadow? — Enjoy, dear Belmour, enjoy all the delights ot love, since thou art cursed with ail tyre miseries of wedlock. -- -- -- -- -
She approached my lips, and sighing upon shem -- -- -- --
Have I not told thee thou hast my heart. Sir John? -- -- -- -- -
I hear thee, Belmour. Prepare tlry soul for the exquisite raptures of love and revenge.
Calling immediately to the postillions —
My Lady wants some rest, stop at the wheat sheaf.
This is an inn of which we were within fifty paces,
L 4 How
I J
♦
^ How that .order has alarmed my senses!! it, Sir 'John, do, recall it. -- --
I prelsed her hand, and we rode into the yard.
Lady Belmour saying that her accident had made her extremely faint, the landlady ushered us into a parlour, whence stepping to a back bedroom with her Ladyship, she officiously insisted on undrefling her.
My Lady declined her offer, as she proposed to rest but a few minutes, and desired a glass of wine.
Whilst the good woman went to fetch it, I showed myself to the servants, and spoke a word to my trusty Duval,
Seeing the landlady approach, I ordered some refreshment to the parlour, and thither I went,
Pive o’dock.
I was no sooner alone than I stipt into the back room.
Alas, traitorous heart! — how inviting thy impulse! Sir John! thou my amiable deluder, come not near me — be my protector against myself. -- -- -- -- -
What a charming confusion she was in, Frede~
riik!
Come not near -- -- -- -
And she opened her arms to receive me.
Thy touch is life to my Soul -- -- -- death to my
virtue -- -- -- Oh!! me -- -- -- -- --
She prested me to her bosom.
My lips had hardly been voluptuoufly fixed, when the cracking of a whip forced my soul from its enchantment. In the first dawn of delight, Frederick, how provoking!
What noise do I hear? Is it my husband?? the frighted Lady Belmour.
My happiness shall be Sacrificed to thy reputation. -- -- Leign to steep : thou hast nothing to apprehend.

f 225 1
.4
prebend— — -■ • a kiss, I stole back to the parlour, panting with rage and pleasure.
I peeped through the window and Saw — whom do you think? — How my heart fluttered! A cold sweat instantly covered my face — never was criminal more confounded at the aspedt of his judge — my head hung down in all the horror of guilt. — What have I done? right. Said Discretion— — cried, still louder. Love. — Though my confusion' had been quicker than thought, the debate was short: self-interest parted the fray — I cursed love, and retired to the darkest corner of the parlour.
Lady Victoria, Miss Ellison, Frofy, and some gentlemen, all on horseback, at a hundred yards
from the house- -- -- -- Frederick, such a
shape as that of Victoria gzvq the first idea of a
riding drefs and brought it into fashion -- -- The
hat and feather give so rebellious an air to the whole countenance, that it tempts one to attack and conquer. — Add to this the inexpressible charm of innocence. -- -- That sight, not my virtue, disturbed
me : this has not over me the power of Lady Victoria. — No more — ’tis sinful to think or talk of her.
Though I had provided against a discovery, suspicion might have entered their hearts. — Frederick! I never yet exposed her who made me happy. — I will ever lose the glory of a conquest, rather than disgrace the generous author of my triumph : her reputation is dearer to me than my own — ’tis the most sacred charge that can be committed to the trust of man.
To tell thee I wished the noble cavalcade an hundred fathom in the bowels of the earth, is a positive truth; except Lady Victoria, however, whom to punish for her untimely appearance I would have placed on the very bed with Lady Belmour.
L 5 The
* [ 226 ]
The image was too luxurious — it was more than mortal could possibly hope for, or posiess.
An hand gallop soon brought them within hearing — every limb quaked — Soon they were out of light — every sense revived.
After having remanded my sentinel to his duty, secured the doors, gulped down a glass of wine, and indulged my soul with a momentary recollection of the beauties it was to enjoy, I hurried to Lady Belmour.
'Thanks to my stars, Belmour, this was but a panic terror. — But what do I see? — In tears! — Thou hast caused them. Sir John: they are tears of love — thy last struggles of expiring virtue — the forerunners of thy joy. — Be generous — be satisfied with the certainty of having no rival in my heart. — What fire in thy eye! — Look not — that kiss — oh! -- -- -- Thou wilt not hear me — — ^ — * *
*** *** ******** Bless me, ye gods, with hours like this, and I
envy not your glory!.
This exclamation was not very orthodox, fre derkk, but 1 took myself for Adonis in the arms of Venus.
Decency, which I always obey when I write to thee, permits me not to mention the sighs ending in a kifs — the words in — I must tell thee nothing.
To preclude all possibility of suspicion, I got unperceived into the fields, and appeared not till the minute I spied the servants in quest of me.
How is Lady Belmour ?-. —
Being answer’d She was well, and impatient to Set off for brenton hall, I quickened my pace and was presently with her.
She was at the gate.,
Why did you not tell your people where you was going, Sir John P I have been ready this half hour. — Come, lose no time in framing an apology
— i
C 227. ] - "
— I ought myself to a^jologife for having kept you so long in this lonely place. —
And without waiting for my answer She tripped to the coach, I after her, and away we drove.
Eleven at night.
Lady Belmour took my hand, and carrying it to her lips with an animated blush— —
John! -- --
Well, dear Belmour, — Sir John! —
And a tear betrayed the inward emotion— — weak I have been! —
The tear, Frederick, and the tone of her voice went to my heart. I threw my arm round her, and ' pressing her to my bosom— —
thou regret my happiness?? —
I yielded to thy love, I would triumph in my defeat — thy pleasure Should be my glory. — Thou hast only given me thy imagination; thy heart was a gift thou couldst not present me with. — Thy looks, thy language, thy mein, thy transports, are the very expressions, the very features,, the speaking picture of love. — Thou hast his breath, his touch, his fury and his impatience.
— Thou attackest armed with all his illusions
saint is reststance against thee — easily dost thou wheedle the heart, intoxicate the head. — But thou
mighty seducer- -- -- -- -- -- -
drew nearer to my breast, and fixed her rosy lips on my left eye.
To thy fiery nature, not real passion, have I today sacrificed a virtue,. which the constant injuries of a detested husband bad not these five years been capable to weaken. —
Too much delicacy, Belmour, is the bane of pleasure, the certain poison of happiness. Let us not search into the nature of our sensations— —
swear
• 228 3
Hvear to thee, and I am this minute as true as thou art lovely, that my heart is solely thine. —
. Thou art still, Sir John, in the firsl heat of thy
gratitude -- -- but soon Lady Victoria -- -- --
I Shuddered at the name.
Tell me not of her — does She not love Frofby f — Dost thou love her the less for that? — ■ —
Canst thou suppose me so weak?
She has beauty with all the charms of innocence, thou hast a heart — I knew thy affecstion for her — '
I knew it. Sir John, and yet -- -- Oh!! me not
though I have yielded to thee. —
Thou merciless felf tormentor, possess the present, trouble not the delightful Serenity of our souls by unseasonable fears. — Chain me to thy arms by inexhaustible joys — Let me fear to lose and forever will I adore thee. — If thou thinkeft I love Lady Victoria, add a new poignancy to every charm — Awake every day a new beauty — divert my passion with a variety of characters — unite every contrail — setup by turns for a prude and a coquette— — grant, heighten my desires, perpetuate rny emotions, and watchful as the virgins consecrated to Vfia, keep, thy sire eternally burning in my heart. — -
How Lady Behnour looked, smiled, talked —.
how — how -- -- -- -- We lived more, Frederick, in ten
minutes, than thou hast done in ten years. What are the wanderings of nature, if imagination grace them not?
As we entered the grand avenue which leads to brenton hall, Vuval told us Lord Belmour was seen hals a mile behind on the common.
’tis too late for him, Sir John, to oppose thy victory when thou hast carried the honours of the
day. -- -- How he now raves at an accident he could
not soresee,! -- how happy he did not !• — -- -- -- -
And
[ 229 3
And thou wouldst: have me not love lhe charming prattler, Frederick f pray less me so again
that thou mayest keep my imaginalion alive. I will thank thee for it.
We had hardly paid our compliments to the lai dies when his Lordship enlered the room.
You have made great haste, my Lord: you surely thought I was dying, no other concern could have prevenled your journey to Penrith. Well, be comforled — 'the fall was not dangerous : I never
was beller in my life- --
. she immediately related the danger she had been in.
How sternly the man looked while she facetiously told her adveniure] The company, however, gradually cleared his brow; he grew polile enough to return an acknowledgment to the congratulations made him on my lady’s escape.
W ouldst thou believe that Lady Victoria looked into my countenance for more than Lady Belmour related? — What! does the girl grow curious? — ril think of it. Adieu.
modijh half 176 — *
LETTER XIII
Lady Victoria Nevil to Lady Carolina
Pelham.
I Have lost the heart of Sir John, Carolina: no longer can I believe my fancy, which still would paint him tender and adoring. — My hopes are vanished, he loves me no more. — My indifference was an offence his pride could not brook — O Modesty! why didst thou compel me to distemble! One word or look would have captivated Kvcjohn.
'— Is there any crime in a look or a word? — Virtue tells me No. — Would I had consulted that a lone, and declined the visits of Frojly! His assiduity

** [ 230 ]
ity which, in obedience to Mrs. Brenton, I daily suffered, has undone me. — I am the victim of my
refpecst for my aunt, of my esteem for Frofby. -- --
Sir John has deserted me! — How stiould he have loved when his rival seemed to possess my ear, when I seemed happy in his passion??
event has convinced me of Sir john’s indifference. It was, I fear, his own work — he was himself the cause of it. — — What torment in the thought!
Lady Belmour was on her way to brenton hall last Tuesday, when Sir John overturning her chariot, She was obliged to take a place in his coach. This was not all, Carolina. They flopped about two hours at a lonely inn a few miles from hence. — Two hours! — alone with Sir John! — I must not think of these two hours. — When they arrived, and She related the fright She had been in, I saw but pleasure in her looks, but life in her expression— — hair was in the utmost confusion— — handkerchief, her apron rumpled. — I left the room, and retired to my closet, to excite my virtue to a contempt of the perfidious man. But how weak my anger! Whilst I taught my tongue the language of indignation, my heart contradicted it, and beat in his defence. The injury dwindled into love. I blamed my false delicacy alone for the desertion of Sir John, and was even more displeased with his new amour, than offended at his guilt.
Once 1 tried to diferedit that handkerchief, that apron — but Lady Belmour could not so soon assume the countenance of vice j her features betrayed the happiness of Sir John. — She never before failed in her duty, how could lhe feigri?
The fullenness of Miss Ellison was aftonilhing. Had lhe been robbed of her only deliglit, her silence or her motions could not have been more exprestive of difeontent,
« Victoria[
[ ]
“Victoria f said she to me, “there sits the basestof men !” and she pointed to Kir John.
I affe61; ed the utmost amazement.
What has he done, Miss?? -- -- -- -- -- --
it not plain in his eyes? — In them do you not see the defeat of \jzay Belmour, and the profligacy of his heart? —
I do not understand their language, Miss- -- -- -- -
bit her lips, and turned from me.
Poor Miss Ellison!! — loves him, Carolina : her displeasure is a proof of her feelings. — A new rival! — I am miserable.
Ten o’dock.
I was this morning in a solitary alley of the garden, arguing in favour of Frofby against shr John, when the former came to strengthen my reasons with his presence.
So pensive, dear my Lady! -- -- -- -- --
And he kissed my hand.
You, Sir, was the object of my reverie— — fear I love you not. -- -- -- -- -- --
Talk not thus, or I shall die with sorrow- -- -- -- -
'the cruel doubt? what fault of mine has inspired it? — It is not surely welcome to thy heart, Victoria. -- -- -- -- --
Would it were not! — once I was certain of my inclination for you — now I am not so. -- -- -- -- -- -
Victoria! Istare my ears the accent of indifference; look upon me with thy wonted softness— — am the man thou hast promised to make happy. Cast thy eyes around — thou shalt see witnesses of thy vows to me; — could they speak thou shouldft hear but of thy love and mine — Tell me thou lowest me, Victoria; be ourmutual passion our favourite theme.
■ -- -- Thou figheft, and turneft thy head -- -- -- thou
makeft me a wretch indeed! -- -- -- -- -1 flian’t outlive
thy coldness- -- -- -- with a smile my finking
soul.
f 232 1
soul, — — — Behold thy Frojby, ever fond of thee, behold him with the eyes of sympathy and pleasure- -- -- -- --
dejeilion, Carolina, kindled a spark of my old flame. I could not unmoved see and hear the man I once passionately loved : I wished for those
delusive hours. -- That desire almost; melted my
doubts J I grew tender. —
And you love me. Sir ?- — — — —
Love you! -- -- 1 swear- -- -- -- -
not, Frojhy, if you will have me believe you: an oath is the last refuge of the man whose honour is lost. —
My heart is your’s, Victoria: it never heaved but for you. I was born to be insensible to the
charms of every other woman -- -- born purposely
to adore you -
gently prested my hand to his lips.
Where could I have found a beauty who, like you, had pleased both my reason and fancy?
Your visits to Miss Cranmer, have of late been
very frequent — to me very rare -- -- -1 seldom see
you. — Who is that young lady who of all men receives but you, who, though invited, never came
to Brenton hall f — Why that blush?? -- you
love me 1 -- --
Long before Miss Cranmer came hither, my la idy, I was a constant visitor of her uncle. 'Isle days I cannot give to love, I give to friendship— — not your time been partially disposed of? — Mr. cranmevs bad state of health has oftener, I own, called me to his house, but my heart always invited me here. —
Was it not Miss Cranmer who thus oftener. —
Miss Cranmer! No, never. — ...
I am sorry stie did not. — — •
Sorry! —
And up he started.
Sorry 1
L 233 i
Sorry! have I heard well? — My Victoria wilh »
cs for my change! -- -- -- No: : imposlible, thy
heart could not support it. -- Such another word
and I am mad. —
How pleasing his transports, Carolina, had I loved him! The intruding idea of Sir John blunted all their charms; they had no effe<st but upon my pity. I sat on a bench; he fell before me on his knee. >
Thus will I remain, Victoria, till words give a lie to your countenance. Had my happiness no more reality than a coxcomb’s dream? Were you not true? —
I wa, Sir. —
Since you were, you are still the same, I am happy. —
And quicker than thought he threw both his hands round my waist, and fixed me to his lips. At that very moment I heard a noise, and as instantly I saw Sir John. His amazement equalled my confusion. I shrieked, he vanished. Frojby
dared to exult -- -- “Wretch !” exclaimed I with
anger, “have you no respect for me? — I hate you, ” — And turning the next alley, I went to she house.
I found Sir John in the hall, taking leave of Mrs. Brenton.
Sir John came to dine with us, Victoria. A business he had forgot obliges him to return to Mo
dijh half, in vain have 1 entreated him to stay --
he will not perhaps deny thee. —
My influence is too Ishall, Madam, to hope for his compliance. —
I courtefied and advancing to him. —
Despise me not. Sir, my heart had no share in Mr. Frojby’^ indiscretion. -- -- '
I trembled as I spoke.
Never will I entertain a suspicion injurious to
Lady
90
• L 234 ]
^ lzay Victoria. — Besides, continued he, with a
false smile, lovers have privileges I have no right to question. Your apology is as needless as your forgiveness for my impertinent appearance is necessary- -- -- --
you believe that Mr. Frojby has none of tfie privileges you mention ?-
A false stnile again, Carolina, and no answer.
T was disconcerted. — If he loved me, I had certainly been understood— — bid me be filent. I astumed a gayer look, and carelessly begged the favour of his company.
He would, and would not; at last on feeing frof hy, he coloured, bowed ahd went away.
An odd man this, Carolina. He was vexed — a true symptom of love! and yet, when I hint that Frojly is not my lover, he miftrufts his ears
and will not believe me. -- -- ’tis decreed I must
be uiihappy. — Were I certain of his love, would that be a security for his morals? — I am frightened to death when I think of the two hours pasted at
the Wheatiheaf -- -- a man who loved me would not
have been there two hours with Lady Belmour — how could he talk of love to her if he feels it but for me? — Can the senses be gratified when the heart partakes not in their ecstasy? — Youth is not
an excuse for the want of delicacy -- Sir John is
doubly criminal — I rave — pity me.
Brenton Half 176 — *
LETTER XIV
/
/
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
ftl H E sight of Lady Victoria is more dread
I fill to me than the gallows to a murderer; it fills my heart with more dastardly terrors than that wretch can ever feel. Her presence Sinks me be.
.
I *
C 235 ]
>
i
low the bafesl of mankind. -- — Virtue under her ♦ Shape is the most: formidable enemy one can encounter. Her eyes are at present death to vice —
She talks, and we abhor our enjoyments. -- -- -- -
Ten Victorias, in London would, from the most debauched, turn it to the most virtuous city of the world. Their smiles, better than fermons, would teach us every duty. — — ’sdeath! do I praise them! Curse on this flight of my honesty!! Frederick, that 1 detest Lady Victoria as much as thou lowest thy king and thy country — I detest: her even to a pain of joy — my hatred is now my delight — I am perfciffly happy with it.
Had I written thee a few days ago, thou wouldst have immediately lent me an Efculapius,
or voted me to Bedlam. -- -- -1 am calmer : HI tell
thee why I hate.
One thought of Lady Victoria robbed Lady Belmour of half her charms, and deadened the pleasures she had lavished on me. My senses helping me not against it, I yielded to the irresistible call of her beauty, and ventured last Saturday to Brenton hall.
victoria’s presence, said I to myself, will force
repentance on my heart -- -- -- what lignifies it? I
will see her. Then, Frederick, I fancied no other bliss— — the hour I was tempted to go! — Instead of an angel. I found — a woman. — Wretched disappointment I
Being told that Lady Victoria was in lhe garden, thither I stepped. Turning an alley — what a Sight! Victoriain the arms of Frojby — Frojby enjoyinglife on her lips. — ~ Paint to thyself the astonishment of a noble Lord on the news of lhe birth of a fon
some happier man has begot -- -- the misery of an
old dotard at the elopement of his young wife with
'her
, I 236 J
, her gallant — thy imagination vv^ill fall short of my agony. The light was intolerable — It was but a kifs — i w'as it not returned? Damnation is in the doubt. — Her trouble at my appearance was exquisite— — looks told me she was not guilty — the looks of a woman? — had 1 at that moment been armed — thou Sliouldft hear now of Victoria, of Frojby, of Sir John, but to know they had • lived. — I hafdly left the garden, and pretending bufiness required my immediate return, was taking my leave of Mrs. Brenton, when Victoria entered the hall with an open but dejected countenance. — Not the smallest impression of hypocrisy in her
eyes, Frederick -- -- an angel again in every feature.
-- -- She came to me, and “begged I would not
despise her : her heart had no share in frojhy’s indiferetion.” I was confounded at the unexpected condescenfion, Why an apology? — What is my es teem or displeasure to her? Since she loves Frofly, she was innocent. I told her of the “privileges of lovers.” — — She answered“ “had none.” Good creature! she saw my love in my confusion, and out of generosity lessened the advantages of Frojby. Her goodness assfe<51: ed me — I sighed, took her hand. —
Stay, and dine with us. Sir John. Will you not stay?? —
voice, Frederick, will ever give new life to the man who hears it. I said Yes, I said No, then Yes, when beholding Frojby in the garden, jealousy fired my blood, I laid No, and flew from the hall. I must not think of her, or my hatred will melt away — my soul will feel — my pen write
— but of love. -- -- -- Victoriain his arms -- -- -- - — his
lips — ■ — torturing remembrance! — A letter from thee, Frederick.
^ ^ Jk.
^ IP ” W
Thou
[ 237 ]
Thou man of little faith, trust not to thy rea ^ but believe me when I tell thee that I did not speak a word to Lady Belmour wshich was not dictated by my heart.
I have two hearts within me whose passions and fenssbility differ as much as French folitejj'e and English generosity. That on which is engraved the sacred image of Victoria reigns in a calm. — The other, like a vessel on a tempestuous sea tossed about by winds and waves, is the perpetual sport of my Ipirits, rises, swims, finks at their pleasure, and was on duty at the wheatysheaf.
Twas this that, raging at the luxurious prof pe61; of rapturous joys, was carried off by a storm of fierce desires, and sighed, and talked, and swore, and possessed.
modijh hall, — 17 6 — —
LETTER XV
Lady Carolina Pelham to Lady Victoria
Nevil.
TO another tune mufti dance now Victoria as I was always out of time to that of jealousy, my sweet Pelerjion has invented one — ■
’tis absolutely his own composition. Never before has it been fet for a girl of twenty. I fear I Shall be but a bad scholar, so are both the music
and fiddler. Refrain thy curiosity, for I cannot at present farisfy it. Lord Pelham is coming. Always writing, la'^olina /
When friendship dictates the hand is never tired. -- -
You are too good, sister, lo less me whom you write to. —
Whom is it to, my Lord? —
To Lady Victoria. —
^ ni kifs you for the happy thought, brolher. —
I got
Aiavv.. yc^u aiiv L\J dll iulli
Hyde park? —
What! tried trie with me, brother? — Yes, with you alone. —
It will be so grave — let us call en passant at dy prejion’s. —
He mumbled a No, and sighed.
My brother sighs 1 Prodigious indeed! Ai not mistaken? was it a sigh of love, my Lord of distress?? —
love, dear Carolina. —
And he sighed again.
W hat! sofar gone, and I knew nothing of ’t'is ungenerous, brother. —
I feared thy raillery. Sister. I always lal against love. —
J And you love really?
I I do; and ihy friend Lady Prejion is lhe worn
I Lady Prejion! i’ll tease you with caresses
I the good news. — Now 1 have a brother. Your
I difference made me often think you was not
I Does Lady Prejion return your sighs?? ^
I told your passion?? —
I have not. —
I S you would have me declare it for yo
I Would you not, my Lord? —
il Tell me, Carolina, has she discovered j
1 She would not, I am sure, keep the secret fri
thee. -- -- -
i On my word she has no certainty of yc
I affection. -- -- Your exlreme reserve favours i
il curiosity. You never had lhe look of a lover
II had you? —
II Undoubtedly, Carolina.
II You mistake, my Lord. I know not how y
Il look when asteep, but awake, nolhing is me
II cold and insensible.
I
U
L J
Lady Prejion may see with other eyes, lister. —
True, my Lord. -- -- -- But are you in earnest??
me again and again you love her. As this is a miracle, and I believe none, forgive my incredulity.
Is not my character a security?? —
man of character, my Lord, will sometimes banter.
Well, sister, I love her as much as thou dost Pelerjion. -- --
Ha, ha, ha I I thought your mighty love would at last dwindle into wit. —
don’t you love Lord Pelerjion? —
Now 1 answer no, tomorrow I may say yes. — L am sorry I did not wait till tomorrow to make
a confident of thee. -- --
And he smiled.
Tell me without simile, or mental reservation, do you love Lady Prejion? —
I do, sincerely do. -- --
Then you are an happy man. —
Happy! -- -- --
She loves you, brother.
Loves me!
And for ten minutes my wife brother was absolutely
mad with joy. — “Loves me !” -- -- -- -- And he
leapt and whilked about to the no small terror of my lapdog and Canary bird. The noise of a Cnioa basin, which he elbowed on the floor, at length brought him to his senses.
She loves me, Carolina? —
And he sat by me.
I’H say Ihe does not, unless you behave more discreetly, and kifs my lapdog, who is frightened
out of his wits. -- --
He took him in his arms.
She loves me I —
Yes,
r L 240 J
Yes, She does. -- -- Keep still— — me not
of my china in your fits of joy. —
He killed my forehead.
She loves me! —
Let us go to hyde park, my Lord— —.
me Ihe loves me, —
Hear the dear words from her own lips, and not
from mine. -- -- A sister cannot express them to a
brother.” — Go to her. -- -- -
I dare not. If I speak, Ihe will laugh me into silence— —
nol: go, look, talk, and She will believe you. — — She has seen you too often to be indifferent. — A man of your merit is too precious a treasure not to be coveted by a modest woman. Go, brother. She will welcome lhe tender of your heart; be as blessed with the pofteffion of her’s, and Carolina Shall be happy. —
Lord Pelham could not help shedding a few tears, embracing his dear Carolina and straining her to his bosom. He took his ring and put it upon my finger -- -- 1 took off mine and put it upon
his. We smiled, saluted— — is gone.
Thou shalt hear of their wedding in a few days, for I am certain they will not, like Sir John and thee, delay their happiness through a mistaken delicacy. — A propos of Sir John — he adores thee, deserves thee — I will tell thee no more. — A card 1 Lord Fanfly is come, Victoria.
“Lord fanfly’s most refpe(fiful compliments to Lady Carolina Pelham. Is just alighted from France, will do himself the honour to wait upon her tomorrow.” -- -- Tsha! I have no patience. The
deuce take him for his impertinent civility.
London -- -- -176 — —
LET
L 241 J
LETTER XVI
Sir John Modish to Lord Pelham.
Northeast W incidents in life unravel the nature of man better than philosophy and our correspondence with all the puppets, male and female, which fwaim round St. james’s.
Who knows his heart, and the innumerable wants of the soul, till he meets with the circumstances destined to call forth their latent principle?
ask a virtuous maid, whose lover, having roused every sense, and lulled discretion asleep, has unawares invaded her bloom.
ask Lady Belmour how She came into my coach, and from my coach into the wheat flieaf.
ask Cornelia how She loved a man fly had hardly distinguished as a friend, on her husband pointing him out to her as the object of his jealousy.
ask Fatima, how, after she had nobly resisted her lover, and her own deflres, being surprised in a flutter of spirits by a daring beau, she — What man, what woman, in every rank of life, would not answer you, “Only to circumstances, my Lord, am I indebted for my foibles or my virtues !”
I love, sincerely love Victoria, yet I not only delight in my intrigue with Lady Belmour, but am
even impatient to begin another. whence this
thirst of novelty? Is it from nature or education? -- -- Education! no : this can but explain the sensations the former gives. — Nature! I wih not argue with thee- -- will honour thee by yielding
to the sensibility thou hast endowed me with.
Read this letter, Frederick, and if in thy wisdom thou telleft me, I could have resisted the temptation -- -- take my answer, I have not thy wisdom.
M To
■»
vvili iiic uiuwiy luui ui oil juun iicvci awai
Will he still pine for a beauty who dotes on his worthy rival : What! shall Lady Fictioria bo that th loveliest of men is the most indifferent
her — -- -- -- that lhe has at her command the i
of her sex, and disdains him! In whal does haughty favourite of love al present differ from generality of mankind;; like them, he b:
ly care ftes lhe chain that sellers him ?-1 aln
hale thee for thy pusillanimity.
Shall the hero, whose allacks were ever crow ed wilh fuccess, fink under a fiist defeat, and repair lhe disgrace by gathering new laurels? W is one overlhrow lo many victories? Was not polio denied by Daphne? Imilale the god : re over a heart more sensible of thy parts, more i ■ partial to thy virtues.
Awake, Sir John; blush for lhe prepofter streams of thy bewildered soul. — A heart, a len
heart, shall welcome ihy liberly. -- Think of
triumph that waits thee, and be free.
When Nalure has expressly formed for the j Jheart whose fondness is adequate ihy Sensibility \
? hesitate?
I Thinkeft thou I wantfeharmsto please, or \
4ues to engage; or feareft thou that thy fear for me among so many handsome women \ prove ineffectual? Has not Love a mien diftii from every olher? Who can assume his looks, voice, his ingenuity?
This afternoon i shall be at Mrs. Elliforis vt three agreeable ladies. — Never say thou hast lov< if coming thou knowest me not.
**#»#*#
Pictorial Bdtaourl names dear to my soul, sh
curiol
I 1
f' - -. \
. L J
'■'4
euriollty conquer you? It muss: -- it Shall. Pleasure, lead the way, I follow thee. ' '*
Four o’clock, Afternoon.
Just six o’clock when I got to Mrs. ellifon’s,
It being a sultry day the ladies had retired to a fummer house, on the fide of a large piece of water between the park and the garden. Thither I hastened with the pace of an usurer going to meet a spendthrift, or of an old maid coming back from church with her bridegroom of twenty.
I entered the room. — -- -- -- -- What a sight presented itself- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- woman on a sofa, the very pi6lure
of Psyche ssumbering in the absence of Cupid. I will not draw her posture, Frederick, left my heart Should catch the fire of my imagination. It were dangerous to describe her left leg, which, by its situation exposed all the beauties of the right, and invited a wanton eye to a profpecst still more delightful -- -- -- — her bosom so luxurioussy restless- -- -- --
more dangerous to tell thee of the voluptuousness of her breath
Attracted by the fair sseeper, I softly drew near, and almost motionless, for fear of waking her, gazed, gazed, and gazed again. I glanced a kifs
on hsr breast, a few kisses on her lips. -- -- -- 1 must
fty or I Shall be impertinent, said I to myself, and I immediately retired, but not without often turning my head towards the bewitching scene of bliss.
As I went out through the door which led to the canal, I perceived Miss Ellison and two ladies in a grove adjoining to it. Each step created a new furprise.
Where am I, miss Ellison!! I. Where have so many beauties been hitherto concealed? Is this reality or enchantment, the work of a benevolent genius, who deigns to favour me with the transporting view? —
M 2.. Is
*
Is it lb extraordinary, Sir John? — -- -- -- -
* It is, Madam. I never was before inctulged with it— — are these ladies? —
The Miss Boltons of Durham; they are on a visit to Miss— —
Cranmer! -- -- -- - —
You are amazed. Sir John P Do you know Miss Cranmer P -- -- --
Is lhe not in the summer house??
is. —
I had been told of her charms, Miss, but jushce has not been done to them. —
Never beat with indignation ax Frojhy, said I to my heart; he cannot be guilty.
I had indulged a hope that the lady I had first seen might be my unknown tempter; but at the name of Miss Cranmer, I successively casta glance at the other three, and could not find a shore sensible difference than an air of concern in the eye of Miss Ellison, which seemed to tell me, “I fear my heart is thine.”
Surely, thought I, Miss Ellison is not the anonymous author of the letters I have received, fmce her first rendezvous is so prepofterously concerted, i — — — A woman desirous of conquering a heart exposes it not to superior charms. -- -- At that instant
Miss Cranmer entered the grove. On Seeing her, I softly repeated these lines of Vohaire : ■
Imagines de Flore la jrunefse.
La taille et fair de la Kimphe des Bois,
Et de Venus la grace enchant^ejje,
Et de vamour le fduifant mihois.
Happy Frojby! sighed I, how lavish has Fortune been to thee! Loved by Victoria, favoured by Cranmer, does not thy soul enjoy more exquisite delights shan genius, glory and empire can procure?
Nne o’clock.
Miss
</
[ 245 ]
Miss Ellison presenting me to Miss Cranmer, I adchefied her with a devotion as fervent as that of the superstitious in France to the holy relics which crafty priests expose to their veneration. What respedldoes beauty inspire! -- -- -- -- — What ferocity
will it not astuage — what insensibility not inflame? Is there in nature an object more moving,
more rapturous, than woman -- -- -- -- -- woman!!
can give to each organ the same perpetuity of poignant delights, or relieve our hearts from that languor into which the insipidity of every other amusement neceltarily finks them?
I was too complaisant to the three Strangers not to be thought guilty of partiality by Miss
Eliljht.
What would not Lady Victoria fear, Kirjohn, from your admiration of these ladies? -- -- -- -
As her ladyship, Madam, is neither concerned in my sensations, nor infatuated with her own beauty —
You think not surely that Victoria is to be com pared to miss Cranmer or her friends. —
I do, miss —
Strangi on my word! -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Stranger still, were I not to give Iter the preference.
, Are you in earnest?? —
am. -- -- --
*
How confident a lover! — — ^
How unjusl a rival > -- -- -- -- -- Disgrace not thy
pretty face, Ellijen, by unseafonable spite— — — love is no longer a Secret to me, —
1 tus was not Spoke, Frederick: it V ?as only thought by me, and guefied by miss Ellison, who, blusliing, turned on her heel, joined the company, and presided at the tea table.
miss Ellison, hoviever agreeable, interefting.neither my licart nor my imagination, I resolved to
M 3 take
r 246 ]
take no further notice of her passion, and from that minute was polite, g&llant, but infenlible, She was vexed : I Saw it; what could I do? Had She gained as much as (he had lost by the choice she had imprudently made of her company, my adorations would possibly have been addrefted to her;
but as it was, she hardly affe6ted my senses- -- -- -- --
these I never gratify but when they are fairly intoxicated.
I dispense with thee, Frederick, from commending my moderation, since it is the eftessi of my indifference. I boast not of those actions which proceed more from temper than reason, and will ever laugh at the pretended virtue of men, whose souls, dead to passion, are alike incapable of wisdom or folly.
Eleven o’clock.
Miss Cranmer has the eye of pleasure, the gait of deflre. She smiles to seduce, and talks to inflame. The e.fe of her motions has a charm the feeling only can enjoy. Each limb is formed for tranfpcrl -- -- the symmetry of her shape is as perfect
as that of Victoria, nor does she yield to fier
in the tempting littleness of her foot— — this
they are alike, in every other respefit absolutely the reverse. miss Cranmer calls for wanton loves, Victoria discards them -- -- -- Had Cra/ men the vivacity
of Belmour, and this the languor of the former, you might grope in the dark for one of theni, be deceived, yet msemible of the mistake. Your hands and lips would say in their language, these
are the charms of Belmour though Lranmefs -- -- -- -- -- -
those of Cranmer tho’ Belmovens.
The Miss spoke little, but was I therefore
to hold them stupid?? know ’tis the fashion to confider modesty and wit as incompatible, but I like to reason nowand then, and renounce the opinions of the people of hon tonne.
Miss[
[ ]
miss’ elufon thought proper to assure me that •
though the girls looked like fools, they wanted not understanding, ”
This was an attack on my judgement and revengefully expressed. I felt it.
’tis true, added she, with an air of superiority, they have not been brought up in the polite worldj and even blush not at a doubleetitvndreyhot — *
I Seized the opportunity.
Your invediive, miss, is their encomium. A blush betrays the knowledge of 'what is wrong, and is often the conscioufness of a fault. The Serenity of their countenance proves the innocence of their hearts. As to their ignorance of lhe modern' accomplishments, it is an advantage, since good sense, virtue, - and ingenuity are undoubiedly preferable to precarious charms, and better calculated to make them loved, respected and happy.
Well., I proiess such fine sentiments from the lips of Sir johnmcdijhrzyq a novelly tome. — Lord! what an oddity I what a melamorphosss 1 — a beau turned preacher! ha! ha! ha! —
And she flung from me with all the airs of con tempi she could alsume.
My blood ran high -- -- -- she looked then more
templing, - Frederick — I’H be revenged, exclaimed
I. -- -- -- 'I was going to swear it, when an unexpected
event ihrevv us into confusion, and diverled her from my thoughts.
One o’clock.
Miss Cranmer and her two friends had stepped into a shady walk whilst I converl'ed with Miss elli fouy We had been parted but a few minutes when the youngest miss Bolton came in, in a hurry, to tell her thit mi's Cranmer had fainted in the arms of her lister. I flew to them, and turning an alley perceived, at some distance, Mrs., Brenton, Lady Victoria, awd Frojby.
M 4 Unhicky
* L 24» J
Unlucky meeting! exclaimed Miss elufon.
Frofby, who had discovered the condition miss Cranmer was in, was mending his pace towards us, when miss Ellison, visibly perplexed, desired the ladies to help their friend to the summer house, while She went to receive the company, and prevent their approach.
The miss Boltons being unable to support her,
I took her in my arms, and carried her to the sofa.
Leaving her to the care of her friends, I hurried to the canal for some water, filed both my hands with it, and sprinkling it on my lovely charge, soon restored her to her bloom.
Fearing my presence might be troublesome when no longer necessary, 1 was stealing to the door.
Tray stop, Kwjohn. -- -- -- -- -
And She tendered me her hand.
conscious by what I knew, by wshat I had seen, of the topic She would fall upon, i hesitated to comply.
You will not stay?? -- -- -- -
plaintive was the tone of her voice, too
moving the tear She Shed -- -- -- -1 had not the heart
to refuse. I approached, bowed, and kilsed her hand.
Permit me, dear ladies, to speak a word to Sir John. -- -- — •
They retired to a window. Then sitting on a chair by her fide, -- --
What has the charming miss Cranmer to tell me ?■ -- -- —
Sir John, may I intrust a Secret to your ho
hour r -- -- -- -- Will you engage to answer a.
question widi sincerity, however painsvil for me to know? ’ '
Your
L 249 ]
Your secret, miss, Shall inviolably remain’ in my breast— — why intrust it with a man who has it not in his power to Serve you? —
You have, Sir "John — you have indeed. -- -- -- -- --
Will not miss Ellison better than 1. —
She started up.
Talk not of Ellison- -- -- has undone me. -- -- -- -
Shall I expe6t relief from the cause of my misfortunes? No. -- -- -- From yourshumanity will I receive it. -- -- -- --
She sobbed, and was unable to Speak.
Her diftress affecsteci me. -- So young. So lovely,
yet a prey to Sorrow! It went to my heart. — She Saw her own anxiety in my eyes. —
You feel for me -- -- how generous! -- -- --
•I took her hand, rested my head upon it, filent — fearing to hear.
Your concern is happiness — you. will resolve my
doubts — i See you will -- -- -
I dare not. —
You dare not! -- -- -- have you already underftocst..
me? -- -- -- that word has doomed me to wretclied
ness -- -- -- - “You dare not!” ’tis death — you knew
my fate —
The “dare not” had been involuntary
: it escaped from my soul which shared in all her desponciency.
Hew should J, Miss?? —
reddened as 1 Spoke.
You have not understood me! why then not dare
to tell me the truth? -- disguise it not, Sir John
— be as honest as that blush you could not fuppress
. — it tells me I am miserable -- -- —.
She grew pale, saint — I Supported her. O Frofby! Frojby! exclaimed I.
She opened her eyes -- -- and calling a wild look.
at me -- -- -- -- —
• M 5' ■ ■ Erofy'f
- [ 250 ]
* Frojly! — what of him? — Sir John! your pity kills me — your grief is more expressive than words
— I see I have lost the heart of Frojhy. -- - —
You have not. — He still loves, can love, but you. -- -- - ‘
She looked for truth in mv countenance.
J
Your tongue agrees not with your features -- -- -
these cannot deceive me. — Judge of my agony by
these throbs. -- -- --
And she Strained my hand to her heart.
I shall not outlive the shame of my credulity —
life would be a torment -- -- --
Be composed. —
Be composed! -- -- Oh, Sir John! I have just
seen them like lovers ^hand in hand — arm in arm — my heart failed me — Do you love Lady Victoria? -- -- -- -
I do. -- --
Are you loved by her? -- -- -
I am not. -- -- -- --
Thtn Frofo) — you have said enough — my misery is complete. — Perfidious wretch! -- - — •
She fell lifeless into rny arms.
Three o’clock.
Unable any longer to endure her diftress which I could not without deceit, alleviate, I withdrew from the falloon as Miss ellij'on entered it.
Vexation could easily be traced on her features. Calling a look on miss Cranmer who was just shen coming to herself -- -- -- -
'The heat has been so great, ladies, that it is no wonder a delicate constitution should link under it ■ — I am myself almost overpowered by it. — You will find Lady Victoria, Sir John, near the statue Minerva. -- And she curtefied “begone, wretch!” I was riot to be duped by her Seeming ingenuity. Her, excssamation at the sight of Lady Victoria, her shouble at the uncommon eagerness cf Frojly, her
attention
L J
attention to prevenl their appearance amongst us,,, convinced me she was the confident of thtir amour, and had Some particular interest to Serve by concealing it from her ladyship.
1 have often heard her commend Frojby, and attempt to make his good qualities conspicuous to Lady Victoria. How' could she, with honour, reconcile her praises with the knowledge of his perfidy? Is she not as guilty as the man whose designs upon lhe iwo unsuspecsting ladies she Secretly favours? She is at once a friend to Cranmer awd Victoria, and both are unacquainted with the daii. gers that ihreaten them!
Is it probable that Kids Ellison should be indifferent to miss Cranmef% disgrace by the infidelity of Frofby if she thought it real? — Is it not still! less. orobable that Frojhy should forsake a woman whose. 'ove, fortune, and accomplishments are undoubtedly adequate to his most sanguine expediations. — Whence then can the silence of miss Ellison, and, the inconstancy of Frofhy proceed? —
She loves me — has not my certainty of victoria’^ allachmenl to Frojby, by Silencing my passion, given miss elufon to hope I would devote myself to her?. — In this case his dissimulation — but would Frofby. conspire with her, feign an inclination he is a stranger to, and wantonly play with the happinefs of Lady Victoria? Could his hatred be more fatal
to her? -- -- It must be Ellison who betrayed Misa
Cranmer when bathing — 13id Frofy resign to her his honour in exchange for the opportunity? Was his assiduity lo Victoria the reward she insisted on? — No: neither of them can.have sofar devialed from virtue and humanity — What then is the cause
of his guilty behaviour — of her guilty silence ?-
■ — will unravel the mystery. — Too long, have I been withheld by a.mistaken delicacy— — will know, the guilty, and save the innocent from destrudtion,.
Such,.
♦ L J
gs Such, Frederick, were my restedsions in my way to the ladies.
Six o’clock.
Xo observe, unperceived, the countenance of Frojby, 1 stole Softly behind the trees, which Surrounded the statue of Alinerva, and removing a few leaves had a full view of them all.
They Sat on different beds of turf.
Lady Victoria had her eyes cast down, and was caressing a Spaniel with one hand, whilst her head reclined on the other. — Now and then her bosoni heaved, and a ligh could be guessed from' the involuntary difclohng of her lips.
Frojby looked apparently on the shield of minen va, but in reaiily towards the opening of an oppo file walk, as if in expectation of Some interesting, discovery. Once henaturaliy moved forward, and as naturally stepped back. Every motion betrayed an uneasy Soul. Twice at a glance of Victioria, his. colour rose and fell — he attempted to Speak and could not find words.
Mrs. Brentods physiognomy was too full of life to know exactly what sensation affected her most. ' — They crowded on her features with Such rapidity as to defy my discernineat. One notified her doubts of Frojby'’'^ honour — another her esteem for hm— — felt every passion, expressed each, and favoured none,
I quitted my hiding place, and taking a by path, got into the alley which led diredily to them.
At the noise I made, they all started, — quick, very quick, was the change of their countenances. Curiosity displayed itself in the movements of Mrs. Brenton, whilst my presence Seemed to heighten the confusion of ffojby, and awaken a ooncern i, n the breast of Victoria.
For
I
[ 253 ]
For the first time, Frederick, I lovingly took htv hand, and piessed it to mystips. She was Surprised, but withdrew it not. Her looks emboldened me :
I Sat down on tyre Same bed of turf.
Is miss Cranmer recovered. Sir John? -- -- -- -
She is, my Lady, -- -- -- But her heart — ’tis in her
heart the disorder lies, he bewails the loss of an ingrate she io.'es.
At these words her hand Ihook -- -- -- she coloured,
and locked at Frojby.
curse on my indiscretion!
And 1 rose up. — A smile telling me I might have mistaken, 1 Sat down again.
Poor miss Cranmer I —
Your Soul, my Lady, would have melted with
the exprelsion of her Sorrow. -- -- -- Her youth, her
beauty -- -- --
Who is the wretch who makes her unhappy? Are you acquainted with him, Mr. Frojby? Whence your perplexity? W hy So disturbed? — 'your heart bleeds tor the unfortunate miss cran oti?r — periiaps for a friend whose inconstancy you cannot justify -- -- -
For both, my Lady. -- -- -- -
And he Shed a tear.
Your concern is very commendable — that tear is generous — you have an excellent heart, Pvlr. Frojby r -- -- -- -- --
d"he tear, Frederick, confirmed my suspicion. He loves, and loves but Cranmer, Said I to myself.
-- -- Indifference knows not the charm of shedding
a fear. — The tranquillity oi Victoria kindled ideas 1 durst not before entertain — it dilfused Such rays of light on her behaviour to me that I was almost ashamed not to have understood it sooner— — was evident Frosty was not the man she loved < — What a stupid feilov/ have I been!” exclaimed I.
I) ■)
i i€
* «
r 254 ]
•'the meaning of this was in my looks, and my squeeze of her hand.
What a variety of forms you have at command, -. Sir John I You came to us with an air of the utmost despondency, and now -- -- -- -
Mind not her words, Frederick. While She talked, a sudden throb of her bosom, which her liandkerchief could not conceal, and her eyes, fixed on mine, told, me, “I am glad you are no longer that stupid fellow.”
1 he scene changed as Soon as I Saw you, my Lady. sadness vanishes at the sight of beauty : pleasure is the only sensation we feel near you. —
Ever polite and flattering. -- -- -
No, never. — —
What then? -- -- --
Sincere and loving. -- --
Sir John 1 -- --
And, on my honour, Frederick, She smiled upon me.
She paused, then turned to Mrs. Brenton, then to Frojby — then -- -- --
don’t you compliment me. Madam., on the declaration I have just been honoured with? — Will not you, Mr. Frojly, do Sir John or me the favour of .a jealous fit t -- Shall your eoncern for
miss Cranmer totally deprive me of your attention? -- -- -- --
My Lady, little do I know how to dhtemble. — dilsemble, Sir! — — ■
She hastily arose, and stepping to him —
Explain the mysterious words. —
He sighed, and turned his. head from her.
She took his hand.
Why so dejedled? Is Miss Cranmer or I the cause of it? — I am Victoria — your friend — I cannot tear to See you unhappy. — ■
Heavenly
A
'^'■0
1255 J
Heavenly girl! your goodnest confounds mei
deserve it not -- believe me, I deserve it not. —
What do 1 hear? — Oh! dear aunt. -- -- -- -- -
She Sobbed, and went to Mrs. Brenton. Confusion! thought!, on feeing her cheeks bedewed with tears. — How many damned blunders do I commit! — She loves him — his, plain. Curie upon love, which thus ridiculously deludes me I What is your crime? resumed Lady Victoria. What have you done? — You have not forfeited
your honour? -- -- -- Forgive the question stis an
insult to us both. — No; 1 will not think < f it. — You are worthy of my esteem, though you had no claim to my love. -- --
Frederick! this was the language of indifference. — I began to breathe.
What generosity! — and I could offend! — Oh, Victoria! ou render me contemptible in my own
eyes; -- your good opinion links me into a hatred
of myself. — ’tis intolerable. -- -- --
Frojly !■ — You are still my friend — are you not?
■ — You never injured me. — Had vou ever a wilh
that was not for my happineis? -- --
Destructive paifions, how you sport uhth a sensible heart? — What virtue can long relict you? — You loved me not, Victoria. — — -
How he delighted my ear, Frederick!
You loved me not — I have not that remorse to
torture me. -- -- -- What a triumph for vou, Sir
John! -- -- -
Lady Victoria leaned her head on the bosom of Mrs. Brenton.
Triumph, Sir! No: I will not exult at the errors of others. A rational man is always indulgent : he knows the power of the passions, and how difficult it is to oppose them. Your repentance is far more glorious than your fault was
blameable. -- -- The man who never failed is not
half
* L 250 J
t
half so straise worthy as he who has the magnani miiy to confess he did. — If there is any other cause
for my triumph, pray conceal it not. -- --
Frojby! —
t00 injured Victoria! -- —
And he kneeled before her
Injured! — In what? Tell me of an injustice —
I can fuspedf none from you. -- --
yv\l Cranmer — an oath — a dreadful oath — no — I cannot Speak. —
And he stew away from us.
Eight o’clock.
The Sudden departure of Frojhy struck Lady Victoria with amazement. She stlently followed him with her eyes till he was out of Sight, then absolutely forgot I was present.
O man, man I exclaimed she. Slow imprudent to trust thee! —
And she walked, absorbed in thought, to the seat he had left.
He loved miss Cranmer, yet every da) talked of love to me! — Frojby could deceive! —
imrs. br&nrion, roused by her doleful accents, stepped to her. I respecled her grief, and remained where I was.
Dear aunt, Frofoy was a perjurer. — Since his heart was miss cranmevs, why did he continue to tell me of his passion?? ungenerous. — One of us he basely betrayed. — This behaviour from Frojly! — A heart I thought untainted with the
vices of the age -- -
She put her handkerchief to her eye.
My Soul was in a dreadful agitation, Frederick. An oath! — What can he have Sworn? — To pretend an inclination he had not? — miss Cranmer could net command this — her heart had rebelled against Such an order, — Whom elfe had he to obey
?
!
[ 257 ]
bey? — Would we could justify him! For though I — loved not, ’tis torment to despise the man we esteemed. -- -- -
The “loved not” was mumbled, but I heard it.
Mrs, Brenton whispered her, and after exchanging a few words, Victoria seemed in Some measure to resume her usual Serenity.
Their looks inviting me, I arose and joined them.
Who, my Lady, would not glory in possfeffing a heart so feeling and So virtuous? — Frojby never ■knew its worth. -- --
She stifled a sigh.
Did he not Say you loved him not, and appear glad it was So? —
He did. —
She turned her head, and threw her arm round lhe neck of Mrs. Brenton.
You love him not? —
He said so. —
And you do not? —
You are too gay for being my confident. —
Oh! tell me, my lady, tell me you love not Frojhy. —
Are you so much frofhy’"s friend as to delight in my indifference for him? — If so, tell him 1 love him not, that he may not be unhappy through the fear I do. —
You love him not! Is it possible!! grateful to my heart the assurance you give! — You love him not! —
’tis not for Frojhy but for yourself I welcome the pleasing news with the most sensible joy. — Thrice happy the day in which I am told you love not Frojhy! What misfortunes, dear my Lady, have you not avoided! How I dreaded for the peace of your life! .Dow could you have endured
the
[ 25§ ]
she infidelity of the man you loved? miss Cranmer he adores. — ’tis long since I knew the fatal Secret.
- — Never would I have revealed it, lest you should have been overcome by despast, if chance or idof hy had not brought it to light. — It 1 kept it from you, my Lady, confider, 1 thought you loved him. — Pity my delicacy : I would have died an hundred deaths rather than accuse —.
How aslonished Mrs. Brenton! How affested,
. Lady Victoria /.
You have added to my regard for you, said the former, though indeed, k\x John, \ thought that impossible- -- -- »
kissed her hand.
The latter spoke not,, but how expressive and. grateful" were her looks!
I fell at her feet.
Frederick!, how virtuous wouict men be were the esteem of a beautiful and worthy woman the prize!
I had just fallen on my knee when miss furprised me in the delightful posture.
Lley^ o’clock.
Am I awake? Sir jfhn' at your feet, my Lady! — — This, Frederick, hugr countenance clearly ex prelsed.
what’s the matter with Mr; Frojhy, Victoria? He came to us so fttungely agitated he would not stop one minute, but went immediately off with Miss Cranmer and her friends. —
Has he not told you, miss, of his extreme concern for Miss cyanmer? —
Not lie indeed.? What concern can he have with that lady?. -- --
Mutual loye, Macksh. He could not dissemble: her accident almost betrayed him into a coa feffion of his passion for her —
His passion for her 1^ Mutual love! — Immensely *

[ 259 ]
fine this on shy honour! Ha! hal ha! -- -- -- Do
you jest, my Lady? —
I do not. —
And she related most of what had passed.
A charming Scene, Victoria / I am vexed I was not present. Did he at well? —
To the very life, said I, with a Sneer. —
I don’t doubt if. Next to you, Kvc John, he is the best mimic L ever knew. — But you was a6t ing when I e^she. — Is it the Second at?? I lost the first, pray go on, let me not lose this, Come, my Lady, you was there, and you. Sir,
here — — on your knee- -- -- -- -- won’t oblige
me? How unkind! —
Is not my silence the greatest condescenfion I can show you, Miss?? '. '
severe. Sir John! said Lady. Victoria, wondering at my expression, miss Ell Jon laughed.
Lord! what dignity in your language, when I only require the futility of a buffoon? Ha! ha! ha! are you afraid of being eclipsed by Frojhy, that you dare not to perform after him? 1 ache courage. Sir John : we shajf certainly applaud
you. -- -- ’ i
Are you as cerlain, Miss, not to suffer by my performance? — •
lam. Sir : but as you are so, averse to afford us that pleasure I will entreat you no longer. Be as fured, my Lady, that Mr. Frojly has a very slight
knowledge of miss Cranmer -- -- that he imitates
^ot the beaux of the age in their transitory amours -- -- that his heart is wholly yours— — it probable that a man of.his understanding would have so foolishly talked himself irrf^ disgrace? From his carelesshess you may infer hb^is innocent. Were he a man of fashionable life, indeed he might love, change, and boast of it : but he is not a Duke
"or a Kix john mcdijjo. -- That frown is unseaso
■ nable.
* [ 25o ]
nable, Sir, you would be displeased not to deserve this eulogium. — ' -
Your larcafms are too sprightly, Miss, not to be forgiven. But if I admire your wit, I am Sorry I cannot pay the Same compliment to your sincerity— —
Sir John has faith in those things only
his self-love is interested to believe. -- -- Had you
less partiality, Sir, you would think me more credible. —
And lhe spoke with such an air of ingenuity and indifference about Cranmer and Frojby, that had I not been convinced of their amour, I should have been a dupe to her apparent candour.
The imposture was so artfully supported by her nalural elocution that I caught in lhe looks of Mrs, Brenton a deftre lo credit her, blended with a temp talion not to mistrust my worsts
We must own, said Lady Victoria smiling, that Mr. Frojby could not have a more Skilshl apologist for lhe flights of his gopd nature; but I really doubt, miss, whether he will thank you for the attempt. Too genuine vvere his Sorrow and repentance, too decisive the words he uttered, too unaf fedled the tears he stied. ’twas no farce, miss : Art, however ingenious, has not the flexibility of Nature. May not Mr. Frojby have secrets unknown to you? — '
He may have hundreds for aught I know, but this could be ho secret. Miss Cranmer’& friendstiip for me, and Mr. Frojby’% public homage to you, prove unanswerably the impostibility of an intrigue between them, and of it being hidden from me. The accusation is absurd.
Two in the Morning.
Are you not astonished, Frederick, at the unshaken confidence of Miss ellij'on, and the dexterity with vvhich she interpreted the behaviour of
Frojhy?
L ^ J cp
Frofby? At what political Schpol has she attainedr, so linspeakable a mastery over herself?
How naturally she showed a distike to me, to give my opposition an - air of revenge! how dar iiigly she provoked my anger, and defended Ero jhy!
This is anew plot. Said I to myself, just laid to invalidate the imprudent declarations of Frojby; and sofar has it already Succeeded as to raise a doubt in his favour, Screen her from being thought accessary to his guilt, and render my evidence equivocal. -- -- -- Had Frojby. her head, or could he, withs
a native hypocrisy, al: the part she shall allot him, it would ste difficult to convidl them. Thanks to fortune I have not to work on a prejudiced mind. Lady Victoria loves not Frojby, her reason is at full liberty to judge— — shall conquer.
The night coming on, Mrs. Brenton took her leave, miss Ellison infisting on Seeing them to their coach; we all walked to the house' '
will remove your doubts, whispe edi to Lady Victoria. »
needless, Sir John, fmce 1 love not Adr. Frojly. — She loves him not! Partake in my joy, Frederick, parlake in my joy! She loves him not! Dost thou conceive all the charm of these words? insenfible creature, shalt thou never meet with a Victoria? Pray for that happiness— — ^ — pray — think
of no other prayer, Frederick -- -- If fuccessful, no
longer shalt thou have a wish to form.
Modijh hall, — 17 6 -- -
END OF THE THIRD VOLUME.
*
«
