RARE BOOK COLLECTION ]
LIBRARY 1 universltyy' 1 PENNSYLVANIA
Ex o HELEN GODEY Libris S: o»g>» WILSON
MEMOIRS
Of an
MEMOIRS
O F A N
unsortiinate Youn
return’d from a
csitteen featjg g)lbaec» n America,
Where he had been Sent by the Wicked Contrivances of his Cruel sjncle.
A STO RT founded on Truth., and addreffd equally to the Head and Heart.
This is the Heir; come let us kill him, that the Inheritance may he ours.
Luke XX 14.
....... "Foul Deeds nuill rise,
Thd all the Earth dercwhelm 'em, to Mens Eyes.
Spoken by Hamlet of his Unde.
LONDON:
Printed for J. F'reemak in Fleetfirect; and sold by the iiooksellers in Town and Country.
MDCC xlill.
MEMOIRS
Of an Unfortunate
Youn
T D me, ojussice! be my Guide O Truth! while infpir’d by the Love of you, most amiable Virtues! I attempt to paint the Distresses of helpless injur’d Innocence : to trace the mysterious Windings of deep Deceit : the cruel Paths of lawless Avarice and lawless Aims: to (hew how fatal to their Posterity Variance between the Wedded Pair may Sometimes prove; and how attentive Villainy from thence may form the most Successful Projedls. The Story I have to relate is full of Wonders — all the
Passions are concern’d in it -- -- -- I have to
treat of strange unnatural Persecutions — accumulated sufferings numberless Dangers -- -- -- -- -- miraculous lscapes o may my
13 Words
5 Memoirs
Words have Energy to give each Incident a true defcripnve Force, to warm the gentle generous Soul with alternate Pity and indig natiotijand make the Guilty, tho’ever So great in Power and Wealth, and Titles, start at the Refledlion of himself.
The i3aron de Altamont held a V ry conss derablerank among the Nobility, but cannot be Paid to have had Sentiments altogether answerable to the Dignity of his birth. He was naturally peevish: : Ideas were mean, ^ and consequently his behaviour impolite: he was p stionate and irresoluje, neither a fast Friend nor a violent Enemy; and to compleac his, Character, one of thole who without being iderai was profuse, and having never been known to do one great or generous Adiii n, squander’d away a very large Fortune in a fiiort time. :
He was married young to a Lady of di ftinguifli’d Birth and Beauty, somewhat rash in her Expressions when provok’d} but otherwise extremely affable and fweet temper’d : e had also a great Share of Wit and an uncommon Vivacity, which enliven’d all the conversitions She came into. In a word, file had Perfections fussicient to have endear’d hgr to any Man who had been fenssble of their Value; but her Lord, alas! knew not his own Happiness: he soon grew satiated with the Charms of her Person; and as to those of her Mind, he either wanted Delicacy to relish them, or was of the Opinion of some others, that Wit in a Wife was a Perfection that might very well be fpar’d. They had not
been
xjnforluttate Youn  3
been married many Months before he behav’d to her with a coldness which, conscious of her Merit, she could ill Support: fly complain’d of it to her Friends, and that, together with the ill Oecoiiotriy he already dis* cover’d in the Management of his affiu’rs, gave her Father a Pretence to refute the Payment of Some part of the Dowry he had promised in a certain Time after Marriage, and which being now expir’d, the Baron demanded. Mutual Reproaches occasion’d a mutual diltatisfadlion between them. However, as they both were young, the Advice of Some cordial Friends might, perhaps, have convinc’d them how far the Nuptial Vow obliges those that engage in it to bear with the Sailings of each other; but unhappily fur them, this was lb far from being rhe Cate, that on the contrary all manner of Stratagems were put in practice to widen the Breach between them, and keep them in a perpetual Disagreement.
'She baron’s Mother was ssill living: she was a Lady of an imperious Nature, lov’d to be consulted in everything, and to have her Opinion taken whether right or wrong. The young Baroness had not always paid this Deference to her, and this created in her Such a disguss that it Soon aster grew into a Hatred. She detraded from every Virtue — file magnified every little Inadvertency — Die represented every Failing as a Vice, and was continually filling her son’s Ears with the ill Conduct and indiscretion of his Wife. But ashe had no other View in this than merely B z to
4 Memoirs of mi
to gratify her ill nature, which probably the Baron might be acquainted with in other Instances, the' Effect would Scarce have been very great had it not been Seconded from a iiiore dangerous Quarter.
■ The Chevalier Richard de Altamont., younger Brother to the Baron, was a Man of whom it may be Said, without any Danger of being too Severe, that he had all the Vices center’d in his Gompofition: he was proud and mean at the same time — vain glorlus yet avaritious - — ungrateful for good (jffices — • revengeful for even imagin’d Injuries — treacherous when trusted — mischievously inquisitive when not So— — the least Spark of Honour, Pity, or even common humanity.......inca
pable by Nature of doing any Good, and qualified by an extreme Subulty for all kinds of Evil. His Knowledge in all laudable Endowments was Scarce above the Level of what is ordinarily found among the lowest Rank of ' Men; but he was a perfect: Master in the Arts of Hypocrisy and Dissimulation, and knew So well when and to whom he should exert these ralestts, that those it most concern’d to see into his Soul wtre least acquainted with it.
This dangerous ferson being the undoubted Heir to all his Brother was pofftst of, in cafe he should die without Issue, had look’d with an ill Eye on his Marriage; which not being able to prevent, his working Brain had never ssnce been idle to find or make Causes of Variance between him and his Lady, in order to bring about a Separation if possible. To
this
   g
- this detestable View the Humours of both the Persons he had to pradise on too much contributed. Tho’ the Baron, as I have already taken notice, was far from having anything of the truly generous in him, and was not at all good natur’d; yet he was easily led, believ’d everything that was Said to him, and was Sure .always to be govern’d by the last Advice. The baroness was gay, a little vain, lov’d Company, and her Heart not having been consulted in the disposal of her Hand, had not a Sufficient Stock of tender nefs for her Husband to oblige her to debar herself from any of those pleasures she had been, accustom’d to indulge, tho’ “never so much difrelilh’d by him. The Chevalier who knew his Brother perfectly well, and Soon grew no less acquainted with the Inclinations of his Lady, took all Opportunities of confirming those censorious Refledioiis made by their Mother: he represented her Conduct not only as too expensive, but also Such as might give the World a slight Opinion of her Virtue : gave broad Hints as if he fear’d that excessive Love she took in Play and Company had Somewhat in it more criminal than file pretended; and wou’d deflre his Brother to be more watchful over her Behaviour, telling him that if she was his Wife he could not approve of the Complaisance fly fliew’d to Some of the Gentlemen that visited her. In this cruel manner was the poor Lady traduced, who entirely unsuspeding any Such Treachery behaved with that carelesnefs and Ease which is inseparable from Inno b 3 cence,
6 Me mo IRS of an
cence, and which the Guilty but in vain af se6l.
The Baron, however, prepossess by his Mother and Brother, put a false Conssrudion on all her Words and Actions, and at lass unable to bear a Behaviour which he imagin’d both impair’d his Fortune and difhonour’d his Family, he told her in plain Terms, that if she did not retrench her Expenses and live in a more retir’d manner, he oiou’d make use of the Authority of an Husband to compel her to more Moderation.
How Such a Speech muss found in the Ears of a Woman if Spirit, who was not conscious of having done anything to pro voice it, let the Ladies judge : few of them, I dare answer, will condemn the Baroness for resenting it, tho’ some who have greater Experience of the World might perhaps have done it with more Temper; but (he, sincere by Nature, disdain’d to conceal the Indignation ssie was inflam’d with, and replied to what he Said to her in such a manner, as in part jussifled his forbidding the Steward to let her have any Money without an Order from himselss
While the cruel Chevalier was thus assiss ing his Mother in dissrafting his brother’s Head with groundless Jealousies, he was no less busy in working up the Baroness to Such a difposition, as render’d her unable to combat her husband’s Ill humour with any of those Arms which could alone have conquer’d it. meekness, Soft persuastons, and good Arguments deliver’d in a tender manner
   J
ner were what this Dissurber of their Peace trembled at, and therefore took care to deprive her of. Whenever his brother’s Absence gave him an Opportunity, he made his Court to her with all the profelsions of a sincere Amity — pretended the greatest Coinmi seration of her Condition — blam’d the Baron for those Faults which he had instigated him to commit, and aggravated those he was guilty of by inc’ination. ’ Hs certain indeed, that to be constant either in Love or f'riend fhip was no Part of the baron’s Character; he had many Amours, and as they were generally with Women of mean Beauty as well as Condition, were still so much the greater and more poynant Affronts to his Lady, who was always made acquainted with them either by the Chevalier himself, or Some of the Family whom he had gain’d over to his Interest.
How often in their different Clofecs did they unbosom themselves to this perfidious Brother in these kind of Exclamations : Heavens! wou’d the Baron Say, my
ejiate be ruined -- the Honour of my Family
difgrafd myself abused by a Woman luhofe Duty it is to consult solely my Interest Reputation,
and Satisfaction I -- Does Jke imagine
the little Beauty she is so vain of Shall make me bear her scandalous Behaviour?
What unhappy Star, cried the baroness, ruled at my Nativity and dejiin'd me to a Man so every way unworthy of me! plain in
his Person- -- in his Understanding, what
could my Father find in him to approve? -- --
yet this injlgnificant Husband, rneerly because B 4 he
8
he is a Husband mufi have the Power to prescribe Laws to a iv>nian every way his Rquaf m mofi his Superior. My necejfary Expeuces mujl be limited., that he may have the more to lavijio on the Wretches he prefer to me 1 — Then would fly run to her Glass., and having viewed herself from Head to Foot, Good God! ssiid Hie, what is there in this Face, this Shape, this hr, to create Dijguft! — no, ’tis the poor man’s want of Talie — he delights in
what - is liltest to himself his Sympathy
— and I ought rather to pity than ressent his Folly
‘ihe mofi aggravating Circnmfiance of my Misfortune, cried the Baron when his jea loussy was rout’d by Some new Invention, is, that this Woman is either so very Cunning, or fi very Lewd, that Jhe behaves to all the Gentlemen that frequent my House with so equal a Complaisance that I know not whom to fix upon as the Author of my Shame — perhaps Jhe Jins with every one by ‘turns, and I am the cursed Dupe of all who call themselves my Friends.
Thus did they give Vent to their various Agitations when apart, and when together they entertain’d each other either with a gloomy Sub lenness or the most piquant Reflections. In fine, every Day furnistiing each with Some Complaint against the other, the Baron became so strongly convinc’d he was injur’d, and so incensed against his Lady for imaginary Infidelities; and (he so much to de spise him not only for his real ones, but for the indifferent Treatment (he receiv’d from him, that it was impossible for any two Peo
pie
"   g
pie to live together in a more disagreeable manner.
As they had been married Some time without the appearance of any Fruit of the Nuptial Rites, moss People assign’d that Misfortune for thecause of the little Harmony which it was vissble there was between them; and possibly they might not be altogether missaken in this Point. The Ceremony of Marriage may, I think, jussly enough be compar’d to the weli'laying of Bricks for the Foundation of the mansson house of eternal Love, but Children are the Cement which muss bind it sass. Few but are delighted to See in Miniature those Images of themselves, and ’tis. Scarce possible to avoid feeling Some ten derness for your Partner in giving them Existence. The Baron, in particular, had been extremely anxious on this Score, and often lamented the little Hope he had of an Heir in all Company he came into. However, what had been his Wissi was his brother’s Fear : this ambitious Man trembled to think that what in near three Years had not happened a Moment might produce, and that all his Views of Grandeur mght still be defeated by the baronefs’s becoming pregnant: he therefore aim’d by all ways he could to bring about a Separation, not Such a one as (hold enable the Baron to take another Wife, but stich a one as Should put an End to his apprehea lionsoshis having any Issue by this. All his Endeavours to this End had hitherto proved unsuccessful : the Baron as little as he was novi Satistied with her Society, would not put her B j i out...
lo M E M O I R S ^
out of his House, because he then muss have allow’d her a Separate Maintenance; and as ill as ssie was treated by him, she chose not to go of her own accord, because ssie knew that she could not then compel him to it. This Consideration, and this alone kept them so Jong together, but at lass the Time arrived which gave a Sudden turn to both their Sentiments.
The greatess Part of the baron’s Estate lay not in that Realm where he was born and usually had his Residence, but in one Separated from it by a large Branch of the Sea : Some very urgent Affairs now demanding his Presence there, it was expesled the baroness would go with him, nor had she herself any other Intention at first. This very much a larm’d the wicked Chevalier, and the more becausehe heard the Physicians Say, that Change of Air would go a great way in contributing to the baroness’s becoming pregnant : To prevent her from taking this voy.ige was therefore all his Subtlety employ’d. My dear Mfier., Said he one Day to her, How impatient shall i be tin 1 hear of your Me Arrivaf and that you find everything agreeable to your Merit and Inclinations. Tonne are always perfectly good and obliging answer’d Ihe, but jor my part I am under no manner of Apprehensions: : Pleasure / m Travelling more than cotm terbalances the Danger; and iho' I nex^er yet was at Sea., I don't think I shall be much frighted— — they say the Country is very fine., and there is a world of good Company. There is the Danger I tremble at for youj Madam,
refum’d
 ting Noblewm. 11
resum’d he, you knave the Unhapftnefs of my Brothers Temper — how tenacious of his Honour -- and how liable to mifconjlrue every
little innocent Freedom in your Sex -- and.,
added he with a Sigh, if he should be so unjuji to take any Whim of that Nature into his Head as who could answer he will not., how unhappy mzifi you be in a Place sofar removed from any Friend either to advise or comfort: you I The Baroness testified by her Looks that these Words made all the Impreffioii on her they were intended for; and having paused a little. Indeed Brother., replied (he, / am but too sensible of the Truth of what you say -- -- I foresee that I mnji live in a perpetual
Constraint., than which nothing can be more irksome to a Person of my Humour — but I am married., and the Misfortune is irremediable. With these Words Some Tears fell from her lovely Eyes, which far from melting the inexorable Heart of the Chevalier made him inwardly rejoice, as convincing him that she was not so bent on accompanying her Husband, but that a Small Excuie would Serve her to stay where she was : It was therefore his bufiness to take care fly should not be without one 5 but thinking he had said enough for the first time, pretended to be angry with himself for having mcntioii’d anything to anticipate her Disquiet, and concluded with telling her he hoped there would be no occasion for those Fears his Friendship for her had made him en terrain.
From her Chamber he went to that of the Baron, and finding him alone, Welf iixds he,
ljufi
12  '
I jujl come from visiting my Sister — She is ex tremely gay and fleafes herself much with the Ampifements pe exfedis to find at the Cajile de Altamont. — Tonne will certainly have a good Companion of her during your Voyage. Tonne tell me News reply’d the Baron, for [ imagine d pe vjas as Uttle fausfkd with goings as I
mufi own to you I am with taking her.
ibut.^ pray., what Amusements are they which pe expedis., and are so delightful to her in
Idea- -- it is easy for your Lordpip to
guess., reply’d the Chevalier, knowing her dif pofiuon so well as you do., — Invitations — Balls
> — — I akure you pe expesis to attradl an universal Admiration., and that the fine Baroness de Altamont will he the Toast of the whole Kingdom. And pray what Figure does fife think I am to make all the time., cry’d the Baron Sullenly? That of a Husband., answer’d the Chevalier with a Sneer. By hea •ven! pe pall fiend herself deceived in her ima ginations., resumed the other; lam Husband v/r true but will prove myself a Husband that laiows his Power., and is refoha to'exert it. — Alasl my Lord, Said the Chevalier, you know her Pride and the Violence of her Spirit and this firiving for the Maflery would but serve to make you the talk of the whole Country. -- -- In my Opinion it would be better you
pould, before you fet out together., let her know how improper it will be that jjoe pould git>c Encouragement to any addre^es or Gallantries that may be offered her and oblige her to give her Word and Honour to live in a manner agreeable to your Inclinations. — -- If you can bring her to, this
xjnfortuimte Toun  13
this Promise., continued the cruel Incendiary, ezjen thd* jhe should break it as I much fear she win, and force you to make use of the Power you have over her., foe would then have no Pretence to complain.. My dear Brother cry’d the Baron, it is excellently well thought how happy am I to have the Advice of such a faithful Friend '.
The two Brothers were continuing their Conversation, when the old baroness came into the Room, with a Countenance which fliew’d Something had extremely rusted her. they both rose to pay her the respedt due a Lady of her Quality and their Mother; which file Seeming to take little notice of, threw herself into an easy Chair, and after a moment’s Silence, I know not. Said Ihe, addressing to the Baron, how you will relip what I am going to say; but 1 cannot help telling you, that if you take your Wife to Altamont, you will be' inde the fefl of the whole Country round: / only jufi now offered to give her some Advice concerning the Regulation of her Condudi, and jhe Fas treated me in such a manner as I would not have taken from any other Person in the
World. -- -- In fine, her Head is so intoxicated
with Pride and Vanity, that fise is above all good Counsel— — abandoned, — has no Regard for her own Charabier, nor that of those who belong to her, and will bring us all into grace if some Method is not taken to oblige her to be more discreet at leafi, if not more virtuous.
The Baron then made her acquainted with what he intended by the Advice of his Brother
to
14
to propose to her, and as the time prefix’d for their Departure was near at hand, it was a greed that he ought not to defer what he had to say to her, and should therefore mention it the same Day at Dinner, and also that the old Baroness and the Chevalier should be wit iiefs of what pafs’d on that occasion.
While this Contrivance was forming in the baroii’s Chamber, his Lady was venting in Tears the Vexation (he labour’d under. The old Dowager Baroness had been reproving her pass Conduit, and giving Lessons for her future Behaviour, in a manner So arbitrary and insulting, that it forced from her Some Expressions, which, had ssie been more Missrefs of fer Passion, she would not have made use of to the Mother of her Husband. Hearing afterward that ssie ssay’d Dinner, and not doubting but the Same difeourse would be revived, Ihe sent her Woman to excuse her coming to Table, under pretence of being indisposed.
The Baron, who was determin’d now to Speak the whole of his Sentiments, and chose to do it in the presence of his Mother, flew into a Rage at receiving this Meffiige, and bad the person who brought it tell her Lady, that he had more than ordinary Reasons to desire her Company at that time, that he
'^mmanded her to come, and was resolved to be obey’d.
Whatever Right the Name of Husband gives, the young Baroness could not Submit to a Mandate deliver’d in that arbitrary manner, and return’d for Arifwer, that not being well
in
 iin  15
in Health, (he could not imagine a Husband that loved her would wilb fly should hazard being worse, by complying with his Desires j and one that had not that Conlideratioii for her, was not worthy of being obey’d.
Tou fee., Son,, Said the old baroness, the Violence of her Spirit,, and what kind of Treatment you are to expett if you offer to control anything she thinks fit to do,, though never fa fhamejul for herself and injurious to you, I could vjijh., indeed Said the Subtle Chevalier, that my Sister would avoid being seen so frequently in public Places,, or., when there,, be a little more j'erious: She is now going to a Country,, where the Ladies are very censorious,, the Men very prejuming : Her excessive Gaiety,, 1 am afraid, will draw Scandal from the one, and give too much Kn courage me nt to the other, and both join to disturb my Brother's Peace of Mind.
Many other things of this kind were added, till the Baron became so exasperated, that be Swore not to take her with him, but upon Condition (lie would make great Submissions to him, and give him the firongest Assurances in her Power, of behaving in a manner quite the reverse of what ssie had hitherto observed. In the height of his Passion he was for running to her Chamber, and telling her how ill he was satisfy’d with her; but his Mother opposed it, and after many Debates what was bess to be done, they at lass concluded, that after Dinner the Chevalier Richard should represent to her the Disposition of the People (lie should live among in cafe ssie went with the Baron,
and
t6
and endeavour to convince her, that an Alteration in her Conduct was absolutely necelhry: aster this, he was to 'let her know, that the Baron expesed fire fiiould make him a Solemn Promise never to play, or be Seen in any Company he Should not approve of her being with.
Nothing could be more agreeable to the Chevalier than being employ’d in this Negotiation, yet did he Seem to undertake it with the' greatest Reliifilance, feigning to be pre, vail’d upon only by the Consideration, that since it was necessary to know her Sentiments he was the filteil persoii to found them, as the Dowager Baroness had So lately been disconcerted by her, and the Baron was too much incensed at that time, to argue with that Moderation the Occssson required.
But before he went, he reminded his Brother that it was very probable, file might Seemingly consent to everything he desired, as her Heart was So much bent on going, and might afterward deny Ilie had made any Such Promise. It would therefore be betterin my Opi~ mon Said he, that your Lordpip (houtd put down in Paper what you expeh from her and oblige her to sign her Name to the Conditions; and then in cafe of nonperformance ^ may put what Rejlriblions you pall find necekary upon her: She will not presume to complain when you have her own Hand to produce against her.
This Advice was received with a loud Approbation both by thebaron and the old Lady;
and
   17
and the former call’d for asheet of Paper, and immediately wrote as follows.
T Acknowledge myself to have been infinitely to blame in not having consulted, as I ought to have done, the Honour and satif fadion of my Husband and Family, arid do hereby promise to be more regular in my con ducst for the future: Particularly, I engage myself to renounce all kind of Gaming, to keep no Company of either Sex but Such as Ihail be approved of by him, and in everything to conform myself to his Pleasure, as becomes a loving, virtuous, and obedient Wife : Desiring that whenever I Swerve from this pro niife, or discover an Inclination to relapse into my former Follies, this Tedimony, which I sign with my own Hand, may rise up in Judgement against me.
The Dowager Baroness was in Raptures at this Revenge on her daughter in law, for the late Rebuff (he had given her; and the Chevalier, for Stronger reasons, hugg’d himself in the Assurance of his wicked aim’s suc cefs. He assum’d, however, the most troubled Countenance when he came into the baroness’s Chamber, and after a long Prelude, testifying the great Regret he had in being obliged to execute a Commission which was So lliocking to himself, and would be So ungrateful to her, he at last presented the Paper to her, telling her at the Same time, that (lie must either lign it, or give over all thoughts of going to Castle.
Prepared
rs
Prepared as (lie was by what he had Said for Something more than ordinarily alarming, fhc no Sooner cast her Eye on the first Line of this imperious Scroll than the Disdain it fill’d her with (hew’d itself in every Feature: The farther she read the more inflam’d (he grew; but the Conclusion put her beyond all Patience. — She tore the Paper in a thousand Pieces, and made thebitterefl Exclamations on the Severity of her Fate. The Chevalier, under the Mask of endeavouring to appease her Rage, took care to blend such things with his persnafions, as but provoked her more; and when he begg’d to know what answer he should give the Baron, ftell him said (lie, what you have seen me do and if that is not sufficient to convince him what I think both of him and his impudent pro pofatsf tell him., 1 despise and hate the one., and will sooner go alive into, my Grave than even pretend to allovj the ffuflice of the other. It is not to be supposed the Chevalier made any real Attempts to alter this Resolution in her; but, glad he had brought things to this height between them, return’d to the Baron with an account, in which he omitted nothing that might prevent any relenting Thoughts from riling in his Bread.
A Man of much less Artifice than the Chevalier Richard indeed have Succeeded in this Point; for where there is no Love, there niufl be a greater Fund of good nature than the Baron was possess of, tohave madeany/n/r band recede from wtat he had once determin’d, without Some Small Submission on the part .of the Wife,
An
   19
An immediate stop was now put to all thepre parations sthat had been making for the baro ness’s Departure; but file Saw it without Regret, and far from abating anything of that Resolution stie had tellify’d to the Chevalier RF chard., file sent her Woman to tell the Baron, that she should sleep in her own Chamber, and luppofed he would not bedifplealed at the absence of a person he had thought fit to treat in the manner he had done her. She is much in the right., cry’d he, when this Message was deliver’d to him, pe cannot oblige me more
than by keeping out of my fight- -- -- only
now., but for ever.
Thus did the Dissatisfadiion they long had more Secretly harbour’d for each other break into an open Quarrel, and there being no more than two days between that in which it happen’d, and that prefix’d for the baron’s Departure, he went without taking any Leave of her, or even feeing her, tho’ fly was in the same house.
Before he went, however, she Sent to know what Appointments were allotted for her Maintenance in his absence, and to whom file was to have Recourse for the Payment: To which he return’d for Answer, That (he had already cost him more than he had received with her, and that part of her Fortune being still in the Duke her father’s Hands, (he must apply to him, to whom, perhaps, ste had been a better Daughter, than to him (lie had been a Wife.
This was a mortal Stab to the poor baro nessj she knew the Duke was stern, haughty,,
and
2 0 M E M o IR s ^ nr;?
and made small Allowances for the Frailties of Women, and those fly had been guilty of having been represented by the baron’s Friends in their word Colours, Ihe Scarce doubted but Ihe Should meet with a greater share of Reproaches than Relief. — She soon found She had not been deceived in her conjeslure; whatever the duke’s private Opinion was, he seem’d to think her Conduct moss to be condemn’d, and told her, that She muss not expect he would give any Countenance to a Woinari who by her own ill Management lived in a State of Separation from her hus band.
To add to her Misfortune, and give her Father yet a greater Pretence for refuling his Protection, the old Baroness pretending Ihe had Proofs that She had wrong’d her husband’s Bed, exhibited a Libel againss her for Adultery, in order to obtain a Divorce, that her Son might be enabled to marry again, Ihe having a young Lady of a connderable Fortune in her Eye for him, when that (hold be brought about.
This terribly alarm’d the Chevalier Richard. he had compass’d what he aim’d at in occa fioniiig a Separation, and if his Brother should marry again all he had done was of no Effect;; So that as poisons of a different Nature destroy each others Force, So did the Efforts the Chevalier privately made, frustrate all his mother’s Endeavours for this Purpose: Heaven ordaining, that her worst Enemy now did
all the Offices of the most cordial Friend, -- --
In
 ujt  21
In fine, the prosecution was dropp’d; but it made So greatanoife, that those persons who before had sjpply’d her with Money, now refuted to give her Credit, and (he was driven to the extreniess Sraits that perhaps any Woman of her Birth and Quality ever labour’d under. She had Recourse again to the Duke her Father. — She wrote, she implor’d; but for a long time in vain; — At lass he contented to pay what Debts file had contradled, and give her a Sum of Money Sufficient to enable her to appear in a manner suitable to her Dignity, on Condition (he would go to her Husband, and attempt a Reconciliation wnth him by such ways as he fiiould approve. It was to no purpose file pleaded the ill Usage he had given her, and that as it was the Effect of his own Choice that (he remain’d behind him, there was little Probability he would receive her if (he went; the Duke was obstinate, and told her, that till he was convinced file ferioufiy endeavour’d it, he would neither give her the least Assistance, or ever See her Face again.
What could (he now do How avoid the cruel Extremity! There was no Refuge for her, file must either starve, or do what was little less irksome to her; and after having endured the most cruel Conssiffs within herself which Party to take, she at length yielded to her father’s Will, and he performing the Promise he had made, even more liberally than file had expected, (he Set out with a gay Equipage, but Sad Heart, for the Kingdom where the Baron now was.
Her
22 Me moirs of an
Her Voyage was prosperous, the Winds and Waves more favourable than her obdurate Husband brought her Safely to' the Port, which being a coiihdcrable Dissance from Altamont Caltie, (lie began to rtfleff, that as (he was compelsd to come by her P'ather, it would be Prudence in her to do (omuhing on her own part to oblige her Husband to receive her in Sucn a Fafhioa as fhou’d not occasion any discourse of their Disunion in a Place where file was So much a Stranger. To this End (he liruggled with her Resentment, and by degrees got So much the Mallery of it, as to Submit to write to him in these Terms:
To the Baron de Altamont. My Lord,
AS there is nothing more common than for People to change their ways of thi king, you will not be Surprised that mine has not teen unalterable, or if you are, I flatter myself it will give you no Displeasure. By the Date of this you will find 1 am in *****. I thought proper to acquaint you with my Arrival, and that tomorrow I Set out for alta mom. As my following you, without being either solicited to it by your Ajfettwn, ^ or com peh'd to it by your Power., is an undeniable Token lamfincere in my Desires of a Reconciliation, and determined to do everything I canto preserve a future Harmony between us, I hope you will have So much Regard to the
Honour
xjnfortunate Toiin  23
Honour and Satisfa6uon of us both, as to receive me in a manner becoming the Husband of an
affcbionate and Virtuous Wife,
M. DE altamo^t.
This Letter (lie Sent by the Poss, and it probably might have had the Effeff it was intended for, had it been the hrlt Harbinger of her Approach; but tho’ she had communicated her Intentions of going to the Baron to very few, yet Was not the Secret So c’ofely kept, but that it came to the Knowledge of the Chevalier i?/ ehard., who, alarm’d at it, immediately Sent an Account of it to his Brother, as follows.
Lo the Baron de Altamont.
My Lord,
prevent an Assonifhment which might, perhaps, render you uiiible of reflect ng what would bell become you to do, 1 thought it my Duty to acquaint your Lordship, that the Baroness is now on her Journey towards
Altamont. -- You have been inform’d from
time to time, in what manner (he has be i haved (ince your Departure, and tho’i cannot * approve the measures our Mother took, because, as it was impossible to procure a Divorce, the Difgracein part retorted upon you, yet I cannot see how you can receive So offending a Wife, without being look’d upon as
the tamest of Husbands. -- -1 have always
widi’d
24 Memoirs
wifh’d a Reconciliation between you, but fear it will not now be for your.donour to agree to it: I leave it, however, to your l^ordfiiip’s Superior Judgement, and have the Honour to be, vvith the greatest Sincerity,
Tour Lordjhifs mo ft devoted Servant,
And affebiionate 'Brother, Richard de Altamont.
This was also accompany’d by one from the Dowager Baroness, full of the most undis guised Invedlives against her daughter in law, so that, with this strong Preposslffion, there was' little likelihood a Letter from a Wife unloved, and much fuspeded, could have any very great Influence. Had he known (lie intended to come while (he was on the other ssde the Water, his probable he would have Sent to have prevented her Embarkation; but' as (he had made the Voyage, and was already in the Kingdom, he knew not how to put a stop to her Journey, and less in what Fashion he (liould behave on her Arrival at the Castle. He imparted the News of her Approach to none of his Acquaintance: He neither went himself to meet her on the Road, nor Sent any of his Retinue to conduct her. The Baroness, who imagined that he would at least have paid her this last Compliment, after the Letter (he had sent him, which (he imagin’d a Sufficient Submission for much greater Errors than hers had been, was stung to the very
Heart
xjnfortiinate Toun  25
Heart when she found herself within twenty Miles of the Casslc, and no Appearance of any Person Sent by the Baron : Glad would ssie have been to have had it in her Power to have turned back, but the Circumllances (he flood in with her Father would not permit her to teftisy, by Such a Step, the disdain file had of the Slight now put upon her. As flic drew nearer to her journey’s End, the more her Perplexity iucreased, when on a Sudden she recollected that a young Lady hie had been extremely intimate with in her Virgin state, had married into that Country, and lived Somewhere in these Parts. ■ ■ — A Thought came presently into her Head, which giving her Some satisfadhon to pursoe, (he ordered a Servant to inquire after this Friend, and being inform’d that her house was not above a League dissant from where they now were, and within a Small Mile of Altamora.^ fly directed her Coach to stop there, under the Pretence that being a little indisposed with the Fatigue of travelling, die would refresh herself before (lie went any farther.
The Lady received her with all imaginable Demonstrations of Joy, and they immediately renewed that Friendship for each other, which ahseiice had only interrupted. They gave each other a brief Account of their Adventures since their parting, and the baroness, in the con clulion of hers, told her that if (lie might flatter herself with a few days Welcome at her House, die would feign herself indifposed, and Send to let the Baron know die was there. Her C fair
26 Memoirs
fair Friend approved of her Project, and the ^ rather because her Husband being very well acquainted with the Baron, (he thought he might be able to mediate Matters So, as to bring about a perfect Reconciliation. As Ihe was a Woman of great Prudence, (he fail’d not to represent in Such touching Terms to the Baroness, how much it concern’d her loterelt and Reputation to be well with her Husband, that Ihe began Serioussy to resolve to bear V ith more Moderation than (lie had hitherto done, whatever was disagreeable in the l^emper of a Man to whom (he was bound for lile; and, that if he would do his Part, to contribute all in hers to live peaceably together. In order to this it was agreed that e should write a Second Letter, the Contents Whereof were these:
To the Baron de Altamont.
My Lord,
^haiige of Air, or the Fatigue I have endured, render’d me unable to reach the Castle, tho’ So near, and 1 was obliged to stop at the house of one of my Friends, whom I hear with pleasure is also yours: I need nor mention the Chevalier du Pont, be causc he is So good as to be the Bearer of this; and has promised, since my Illness will not yet permit me to remove from hence, to con dv.^v you to her wsto much ddires to See you, after So long a Separation, and to exchange
For
xjnfortmiate Totin  2y
Forgiveness wiih you for the Canfes that occasioned it.
Tour moji ajfediionate jvife,
M. DE Altamont.
These were Submissions, which, in Spite of atl Remonstrances, nothing but the Necessity of the baroness’s Affairs could have extorted from her; but if ssie suffer’d a good deal from her Pride on this Occasson, her natural since rsty was put to a no less Severe Task, and ssie found it the greatest Difficulty in the World to assume a Countenance and Behaviour to the Baron So as not to contradict her Letters when he should arrive.
The Chevalier du Pom found him in an extreme ill Humour; he told him he was unacquainted with the baronefs’s Behaviour towards him, or he would not have undertook
the Office he now did -- -- -- Swore he would
never See her Face more, -- accused her of a
thousand Irregularities, if not Vices, and concluded with saying, It was impossible (he could ever alter her Temper and Condu61:. To all this the other Said little till he had rail’d hiin felf quite out of Breath, and exhausted all the Venom his Mother and brother’s Letters had infused into him, but then exerted all the good Understanding he was master ofithan which few Men had a greater (hare, to bring this incens’d Husband to put a less Severe Gonstrudion on his lady’s past Actions and a better Opinion of her present Intentions. The baron’s natural Docility contributed very much to en c 2 force
2$
force the Arguments of his Friend, and in a few hours he was as willing to believe everything in her Favour, as before he had been to her Prejudice. Come., Said he to the Chevalier, let ns go and see this poor Penitent : Whatever pe has been guilty of I dare wearer punijhme at., ftnce I left her., has been (gqual.
The meeting of these two was odd enough, the Baron put on a haughty Gravity, which was wholly unnatural rp him, and only as fum’d stecause he thought it would become him at this jun^iure, and excite refpe6l in his Lady. The baroness atfefted an Humility, which she was far from feeling, but had its Effect on her Husband; while the Airs he gave himstlf only Served to make him appear more contemptible in her Eyes
But this mutual Gonssraint lassed not long; whether it were that absence had given the ibaroness all the Charms of anew Beauty, or that he was really struck with Some remorse for the unkind Treatment he had given her;
which Speyer of these Motives it was, none but himself could determine j but he had not been half an hour at the Chevalier duponi's., before he became exceeding good humonr’d, nd even fond of his Lady. The Returns (he made were highly obliging tp him, and finding him So much more comphstlapt than (he ex petsted, wrought So far on the natural syveet nefs of her difpofitiqn, that all her late counterfeited Softness now converted into a real one; and whoever had now seen them together, would have believed them an extreme
happy
Unforfunate Toun  ig
happy Pair, and that they were incapable of having ever disagreed.
The Baron would not quit the Chevalier an Ponds that Night, but early the next Morning went horn to order Things for the Reception of his Lady. In the Afternoon he return’d with two coaches aud six and ali bis Equipage, and towards Evening the reconciled Couple, accompany’d by the Chevalier An Pont and his Lady, went together to the Castle of Mtamont.^ where for Some days there was nothing but Feasting, Mulidc and Balls, to entertain thenofaility and Gentry of those Pam, who hearing the bafoness vvas arrived, tame to pay their Compliments to her. Everybody was charm’d with the Person and con vcrfation of this Lady, and the Baron, having now none to mislead him, was mightily pleased nt the Congratulations made him on his Choice, and the Praises which all degrees of People gave her.
To add to his Contentment, or rather to give hjm an Ecstasy he had never known before, the Baroness became pregnant: His fondness of her iiicreafed from the Moment of this happy Discovery;; was highly fatisfy’d herself, and began now to find a real Tenderness for her Husband.
While this Harmony Subfisted, the Bardneff brought into the World a Son; that Hon, whose Adventures have stnce made fa great a Noise in the World. -- -- Ol who that then beheld
the Smiling Babe, Heir of three Baronies, and a much Superior Title in Reversion, Idol of his Parents, and Object of the Congratu c 3 lations
30 m^moiks of at
lations and Rejoicings of a whole Province, could have imagin’d he was born to lustre Woes Sufficient to make him regret he ever had Exissence, and almoss accuse Heaven of Partiality! Little, alas! does the fond Mother, when pressing her darling Infant in her Arms, think of the miseries that may be dellin’d fur
its Portion! But to return.
Our young Chevalier was baptised by the Name of James., in Compliment to a noble Lord a near Relation of the baron’s, and at whose death he expected a considerable Addition to bis Essate, and Soon after committed to the Care of a young Woman in the Neighbourhood, called Juggan, who, tho’ a plain Country Creature, had the good Fortune to have her Milk approved by the Physicians, above that of others, who came to offer themselves, of a Superior class. She performed indeed all the Duties of a nurse with so much exadfness, that the baroness was very well fa tisfy’d with her.
. The Baron had now no reason for Complaint against his Wife, yet in time he grew peeviffi with her, would have starts of Passion tho’ no Cause to allege for them; but Ihe knew it was natural to him, and had learn’d Philosophy enough to bear it with Patience; as also his refusing to let her accompany him to the Capital, whither he often went himself, and would Sometimes stay a Month or LIX Weeks together. ’tis certain he had his Reasons for depriving her of the Pleasures that great City affords, but they were chiefly on his own account; he less fear’d Ihe ffiould indulge herself

llnforfunate Toiing Nobkman. 31
Self too much in them, than that her preseiice would be a Bar to his Enjoyment of them; for tho’ no Man was more frugal and parli monious when at home, he regarded no Expellees for the Gratification of his Appetites when abroad; and as his darling Pleasures Were Wine and Women, he Seldom lay one Night alone, or went Sobersto Bed during his continuance in Town. But the Baroness was altogether ignorant of this, as also that by being the Dupe of Several of his dissolute join panions, he had been obliged to mortgage great part of his Essate, and had beside contracted many other large Debts. Happy had it been for her, if (he had never been acquainted with what was entirely out of her Power to remedy, or when fly was So, could have concealed her Knowledge.
The Chevalier James was about four or five Months old, when one day his nurse having brooght him into her Chamber, fly was praising his Growth to a young Lady who happen’d to be with her when ’iuggan came in : tssi cry’d the silly Tatler, his Nmfe has a double Reason to take care of him. A double Reason., said the Baroness, I don't know what you mean., but I should be glad flee had a thotk fund, folie throve the better for them. In speaking this (he happen’d to call her Eyes on Iuggan., and Saw her E'ace was cover’d with a scarlet blu|h, which a little stirprizing her, made her ask the Lady, what double Reafoh it was (he supposed her to have? To which the other would have avoided giving any direct answer, saying they were Words with c 4 oiu
32 M E M O I R S ^
out Design and had no Purport. This yet more exciting the baronefs’s Curiosity, (lie loid her it was to no Purpose to deny chat (lie had that Moment Something in her Thoughts, and (he would never forgive her if (lie made a Secret of if. Then if you tnujl knowf{z\^ the Cady, it was a foolish Fancy jufi then came into my Head., that there is a great Resemblance between the Features of the Chevalier James, Mnd Nurfs Juggaiih ovrn Child. Thafs an edd Whim indeed., cry’d the Baroness coldly, shere is seldom any remarkable Likeness where there is not same Mixture of the same Blood, She Said no more, nor did the other continue the discourse, but Juggad*% Colour remain’d at! the time (he ssaid in the Room, and had all the 7'okens of a violent Confunon upon her. The Baroness was little less disorder’d, tho’ ssie conceal’d it, and affoon as theperfon, who by her Inadvertency or Malice had given her this Alarm, had taken her Leave, (he began to rested very deeply on what she had Said. -- -- -- --
A double Re of on and the Likeness between the Children,, she thought were odd Expressions,
and muss have Some Signisscation. -- -- She had
Seen Juggan‘% Child, and had thought him a fine Boy — and now (he had been told So, began to think he had indeed Some little Resemblance of the Chevalier Jamej. — She remember’d too that (he had ask’d where
her Husband was that he did not live with her, and that the Woman had only Said, he was gone beyond Sea, but never cared to mention him, or to be ask’d any Quessions eoncerning him. All this put together, infused a kind of
jealousy
Lbifortumte Tom  3 3
jealousy in her Heart. — She thought it was not iinpoffible hut the Child who was thought like the Cheraiier, might be got by the same Father. — The Blushes and Confusion the nurse was in at the mention of a resemblence between them, help’d to strengthen this Suggestion in her, and (lie became So uneasy, that resoiving to be assured what Grounds there were for it, (he rung her Bell for her Woman, to whom she repeated all that had past, and charg’d her, by all the Duty and Affection she had for her, to found the Bottom of this Matter; which stie told her (he might eastly do, by inquiring among the Servants What kincl of Man Juggarfs Husband was, what his pro feflion, how long he had been absent, and whither he was gone, and suchlike Questions’. By the Answers made to her she doubted not but she stiould be able either to confirm the Truth of her Suspicions, or wholly banish them. Charlotte for that was her Name, feem’d very unwilling to be employ’d in this Affair, and would fain have persuaded her Lady to entertain no such Conjedures, but the b.aronefs was obstinate to be obey’d, and the other was obliged to promise she would do all in her Power to give her the satisfadlloii she required
Difficult it was for her to resolve in what manner fhefhould behave in this Bustnefs: That jugganntvqt had been married to any Man, and was made a Moiher by the Baron, was scarce a Secret to any in the whole Province but the Baroness, and that ffie had not heard of it was owing wholly to the Prudence and good na^ C y sure
34 Memo ivls of an
ture of her Acquaintance, as well as of thole about her. Loth die was to be the Perlon that Should infonr. her Lady of a Thing which she knew would give her So much uneafiness, and as (he Seemed So bent on the discovery of the Truth, was fearful of incurring herdifplea sure by concealing it, if ever it (hold come to her Ears by any other means. She evaded it however for Some days by one Pretence or other, till the Baroness beginning to accuse her of trifling with her, (lie found a Necessity of confessing that there was Some discourfe concerning a Kindness the Baron had tessify’d to Iuggan., but that no body could be Sure of any such thing; and if it were So,, it was before her ladyfliip’s Arrival, and therefore she had the less cause to resent it.
She was going on to excuse the Baron as well as (he could for this Accident in cafe it had really happen’d, which yet fly would not Seem to be assur’d of, but the Baroness ssop’d her Mouth. As for the Certainty of it, (aid ssie, / am well convinced, but if 1 pardon that Rffedi of a loose and wandering Inclination in him at a time that I was absent and at variance with him, I know not how I ought to resent his permitting a Strumpet to give Suck to my Son and his ovjn lawful Heir. char kite would now again have interposed, but the Baroness bid her leave the Room.
Here ceased that Tranquillity of Mind fly had enjoy’d (ince her being at the Cadle of Altamont, for tho’, as (lie told her Woman, there might be Some Allowances made for. his Amour before her Arrival, yet the entertaining,
the
 im  3 5
thewoman he had been thus guilty with in quali i tyofanurse to his Legitimate Son, was a Proof he still had a Regard for her; and from this mo inent the Baron never mentioned her, or look’d ■ upon her, - but the jealousy of this unhappy Lady made her imagine it was with tender iiess. She had still however the Prudence not to let him perceive (he knew anything of the difcourse concerning this Affair, nor, for the sake of her Son, who not being yet w'ean’d, might Suffer by the Change of Milk, did make any Proposal to remove him from her Breast.
• — She labour’d, however, under a Secret Discontent, which, by the Constraint (lie put on herself in concealing, wrought avilible (Change both in her person and Behaviour. The Baron observ’d it, and perhaps guess’d at the occa ston, but took no notice to her either of the one or the other; he grew every day more cool, (he less tender, and a kind of forced Civility was all that now remain’d between them: As there was no Quarrel, and each kept their Thoughts in their own Breast, there ’ was no room for any Friend to attempt the redress of wstat they could not but observe.
How long they might have continued in ' this inadlive insenliulity Heaven only knows.. roused the Seeds of Passion in the Souls of both. The baroness, one Evening pretty late, indulging her Discontent in a Grove adjacent to the Castle, her Meditations were interrupted by the Sound of Voices behiiid.i Some Trees; stie thought the one was no Stranger to her Ears, and the other the ba ruii’s: She lose from the Bank (he had been
ssciing
36 mtuoirs of an
litting on, and drawing Softly to the Place whence the Sound proceeded, was convinced of what she before believed, and Saw by the Light of the Moon, which then shone very plain, her Lord and one of her Maids in Such an Attitude, as could leave no room to doubt the shameful Bussnefs they met there upon. Tho’ fly had moved with as much Circuni spedion as possible, the russling of her Garments making them turn their Eyes that way, they immediately Saw and knew by whorathey
were thus furprsted. gould the Baronets
have retreated without being known to have been a Witness of their Guilt, the same Prudence which had made her silent in the Affair of juggan^ might perhaps have made her Seem ignorant of this; but as this could not be done, the could not, without the utmoss meaniiess, stifle her resentments. The Maid had no Sooner beheld her Face then she fled the Place withal the Speed she could; but the Baron remain’d, as neither dreading any Reproaches, nor atiam’d of deserving them. Is it thus tny Lord Slid she, that you requite my Study to oblige you? Is this my Recomfence for feclud eng myself from all the World, renotiricing every Fleafure that my Rank and Touth might claim, and fixing my whole satid.aliion in your con tent Tfo wrong me with one of my own Servants, nay, one of the nieancji of them too, is IDO crucian Indignity. Here her Tears stup’d the Progress of her Words...
^ Tou make a mighty Merit, answered he, of living decently when you had neither Means nor Ogfortsiwty of carrying on ymr Gallantries
any
   gy
eny longer \ but if you had half the Wit you would be thought Mistress of you would not bring to rny Memory what I have been willing to forgetnor by giving a loose to your imperti. nem Curiosity joree me to tell yon to your Face,, that whatever I may do is., bejide the Privilege of my sexj fully jujlified by your own Example.
f hefe lass Words destroy’d all the Patience Ihe would fain have preferv’d in So (hocking an Adventure. — By my Example cried she! then I jjjould projlitute myself to one of your
Grooms or Footmen- -- -- .know, injurious
Man, I have a Soul that scorns such Meanness The Baron then told her that Virtue Supported only by Pride was little to be valued, and treated all (lie Said to him with such an Air of Contempt, that not being able to find Words to vent the Rage (he was poshest ost it seiz’d upon her Spirits and she fell into a Swoon. He left her in that Condition, but assoon as he got into the Castle acquainted her Woman with the Condition she was in, oa which she ran immediately to the Place he had dircdled, and with the Assistance of Some other Servants brought her to herself. She was led between them to her Chamber, where by that Time the Baron was undress’d and gone to Bed. As strong as her resentments were, she recol’edted the ill consequences that had attended her beginning a Separation of this Sort, and resolving to give him no Pretence for acting as he fore had done, made her Women put her into Bed, where they Siept or rather quarrell’d together the best part of
the
^8 M E M O I R s ^
the Night. Each Saying what they could ter mortify the other, Juggatz was not forgot but he seem’d not to regard even her Knowledge of that Amour, and answer’d her up braidings either with retorting her Accusations on herself, or with Such a stabbing Indifference and ill natur’d Calmness that never Woman suffer’d a greater Humiliation.
Company happening to come the next Day to' dine with them, they were both V ise enough to conceal what had past by behaving to each other as usual; but as Soon as they were alone their lil humour return’d, and So continu’d that from that time forward no more Endearments past between them. The Baron went Soon after to the Capital, where he stay’d Several Months, return’d to the Castle merely for form’s sake, then to the Capital a gain, which he now made much more his Home than his own Province. The baropess who by his last ill Treatment had recover’d all her former Contempt of h m, receiv’d him v/ith constraint, and parted with him withostt/re great; it was just the Same wdth him; and thus did they drag on a mutual Difeontent upwardsj, of three Years, during which Time the Che.. Richard arriv’d at the Cassle, w’ho was far from desiring to See more Unity between them; for tho’ the Jiirth of the Chevalier James had defeated all his former Projedls, yet had he still others no less pernicious than the former. Perceiving that his Brother, in Spite of his Indifference for the Mother, exceedingly carest the Son, he spar’d no pains to‘ alienate, his aff'edtionsj.aiid at last prevail’d So faron his ■, - - Credulity
jj?ifortu.nafe Youn ,
Credulity as to make him Sometimes fuspeist he was not of his own Begetting; but these Imaginations came but by ssarts, — self-love prevail’d. - — He found a Pleasure in thinking he was the Father of a Legitimate Offspring, and therefore would indulge it; which the Chevalier perceiving contented himself with infusing that cruel Opinion into others, and forbore mentioning it any more to his Brother, endeavouring, only to keep him as much as possible at a Distance, to the end he might become more indifferent to him. Not that be could imagine this would forward his own ambitious Views; for as the Chevalier was born in Wedlock, whether he really was of the baron’s Begetting, or whether he believed him So or not, was of no consequence; for being born of the Baroness entitled him to the Succession of all the Baron either had, or might be possess of; but the wicked Chevalier Richard incapable of being moved by the growing Beauties of his Infant Nephew ’ as by all the impulse of Blood and Nature, look’d on the Sweet Innocence with an im pl.acable Hatred, as being born in his despite.. the Sure Bar to all his Slopes of great nefs. He never heard that he was taken with any of those little Ailments to which Children are incident, but he wilh’d they might be fatal to him; and indeed, conssdering the Cruelties he ssnee has practised on him, nothing is more Orange than that he did not contrive Some Means to make them So * but if any Such abhorr’d Dessgn ever came into his Head, the Execution of it was frussrated by _ ' • ' Providence, /
40 M.EM01RS of an
Providence, and as there is no Proof there ought ro be no accusation.
The young Chevalier unhurt by his cruel uncle’s ill Wishes, lived and grew the only Solace of his mother’s melancholy Hours : The Care and tenderness his Nurse had for him, endear’d her also by degrees to the baroness;; the more So, as she lost that Boy who was laid to be of the baron’s Be -- - gettiiig, and doobtless was So, ssnee she who best could tell at length acknowledg’d it.
The continual Riots the Baron lived in at the Capital obliging him to repeated Mortgages, he bethought him of breaking up Housekeeping, dispofing of the Castle of Altarriont and The Lands adjoining to it for his own Life: He had no Sooner taken this into his Lead than he put it into Execution, and the unhappy Baroness was told at once that she must remove. demanded she Even
where you pleafey Madam, replied the Baron; my Miifortunes have reducedane to sell all I wat pojjejl of for the Payment of my Debts; / have no longer wherewith to support you, and' as you have no Friends in this Kingdona, your only Resource in my Opinion is the Duke your Father. She was Some time before she could give credit to a Misfortune So unlock’d for; and which she could not imagine by what Chance had been brought upon her; but on inquiring further she Soon learned the cruel Certainty and the causes of it. findingnore rnedy she prepared for her departure with that Scanty Pittance the Baron thought fit to bestow on her, but wshich he pretended was all
he
   41
he could Save out of his Bankrupt Fortune: She desired to take her Son with her, not doubting but her Father would have compaf sson on the Heir of Altamont but this the Baron would by no means permit, and all her Tears and Prayers were vain : He told her that if (he desired he fiiould continue his af fesion for him, or believe he had that Share in him (lie pretended, (he would not make any Efforts to Separate him from a Father who had hitherto used him as his Son. This fi lenc’d her Entreaties, and having taken a mournful Farewell of that dear Babe, and those who had (hewn a friend(hip for her, particularly the Chevalier Dti Pont and his Lady, (he quitted the Castle of Altaniont., and Soon after the Kingdom, with no other (Comfort, Company, Equipage or Retinue than Charlotte her Woman.
The Baron now eased of his Wife, and the Burden of a Family, and Master of a good Sum of ready Money, returned with his Brother to the Capital, where among low Company and in the meanest manner of Living more was consumed, than with good oeeo nomy might have Supported him according to his Rank.
In fine having Sold his w’hole Estate for Life, and squander’d all the Purchase, he became So extremely destitute that he wanted even the common Necessaries of Life: In this Distress he was advised by some of his Companions to raise Money by giving leascs in reversion of a very great Estate, wffich, must infallibly devolve on him at the demise of the
prefeiu
42 of an
prescnt Possessor who was extremely ancient. He fell immediately into this Scheme, but the Chevalier Jatnes., as he was yet an infant, and consequently could not beconsulted, was an Impediment to the Execution of it; No Body being willing to purchase Leases which they knew 'would not (land good without Conlent of the Heir. To remedy this, it was agreed that the Chevalier should be removed from a great School where he then was, and put to a private Place, and a Report Spread
that he was dead : -- -- Letters were forged to
corroborate this ns a Truth, and the Chevalier Richard, now fuppos’d Heir to his Brother, join’d in the Leases, by which they jointly received large Sums.
Soon after this, the Baron seem’d to grow tired with the Variety of v7omen he had enjoyed, and to settle his whole Heart on an a' '. young Lady cal i’d Helena: Whether a Man of his Temper could be capable of a true Affection I will not Say; but he was So intent on possessing her, that finding (lie was not to be gain’d but on honourable Terms, he gave out the baroness was dead and married her publicly.
His fondness for her continu’d, to the Wonder of all that knew him, after Enjoyment; and tho’ having no Children by her, be grew desirous of calling home the (Chevalier ‘lames,, yet had (he that ascendant over him as to prevent it, and by continual lufiniiations that his firss Wife was of so loose a Character, that it was Scarce probable the Child was his, wrought So far upon him as to make him ta
taliy
"   43
tally neglect the young Chevalier, who being in an obscure Place and among poor People, became very ill-used by them on his father’s ceaiing to pay for his board and Learning as he had been accuflom’d. — And tho’ the Misfortunes of this youn were almost of equal Date with his Birth, yet it was but now he began to feel them in the Want of those Things his young Apprehensson made him know he stood in need of — — his Clothes were tatter’d and too little for him — - his Fare was hard and allow’d him but in Scanty Portions all that could cherish
or delight him was denied -- -- -- no Tenderness,
no Soft Indulgence shown to him — no
Recreations permitted him -- -- not look’d on.
but with Frowns — — not Spoke to but with
Reproaches -- -- continually reprimanded and
often beat in the most cruel manner either for doing Somewhat he ought not, or for not doing what none took the pa’ns to instruft
him in -- -- while others of his Age were at
their Exercises of Learning, he was either employ’d in drawing Water, cleaning Knives,
and fiich like Servile Offices -- a Sweeper
of that School he should have studied in, and the Drudge of those he ought to have commanded did he continue for more than two whole Years, when growing more sensible of his ill usage he began to murmur at it, on which they told him that they had kept him only out of Charity all that time, and if he did not like his way of Life he might go and leek a better. The poor Innocent thinking nothing could be wmrfe than the present Calamity,
took.
44 M E' M o IR s an
took them at their Words, and without either Clothes, Money, or the least instruqion where he might find his Father, turn’d his Back upon that Scene of misery to enter upon one which presented him with greater still.
Not knowing where to go he wander’d along the Road till he came to a Small Village, where his little Limbs, for he was yet but a little more than ten Years old, became So weary that he sat down on the Threlhold of a Door, and wept bitterly for want of Food; Several look’d on him as they past’d; but he knew not how to ask Relief: At length a good old Woman brought him a Piece of Bread, which his eager putting to his Mouth making her see he was very hungry, she added to it Some cold Meat and a Draught of Buttermilk and Water. With this Refreshment he was enabled to prosecute bis Journey, but whither he knew not, being wholly ignorant Where the Baron lived, or any other Person to whom he might apply. — His Fate however led him to the Capital, and having never before been in any great City he was a maxed to see such a Concourse of People all with busy Faces hurrying about the Streets. — The fine Shops and gilded Signs were also Objests of Admiration to him, and for a time made him forget even Hunger; but the Calls of Nature will not long be hufli’d by external
Objects- -- -- -- -- felt the Pinch of an empty
Stomach, and fell again into Tears. -- -- jnlo
Body here offering him anything, he at last
forced himself to ask Compassion- -- -- --
Manner in which he implor’d — the reludant
Balhfulnefs
jjnfortujwie Toim  45
bafhfulness that fliew’d itstlf in his Voice and Eyes, join’d with a certain Something in his Countenance, which in Spite of his diltress Spoke him above what he appear’d, excited a Pity in every one that Saw him, and made him rarely Sue in vain. When Night came on he took Ihelter in a Church Porch — hard Lodging for the Heir of a Family which for Antiquity and nobleness is inferior to few,
except of Royal Descent, in Europe -- yet
So it happen’d, and the Dldreffes which this youn endur’d in common with those born of the moss abject Parents, may Serve as a lefson to thole who too much glory in their Birth, to abate their Arrogance on that Score, by (hewing that a Lord, when he wants Bread, feels the same Hunger as a common Man.
Early the next Morning he quitted his uneasy Bed, and now remembering that he had heard his cruel Schoolmaster talk of writing to the Baron at this City, he went up and down Several Streets inquiring for the Baron de Altamonte but was a long time before he met with any one that knew him; at lass he was inform’d that Such a Nobleman had lived there, but that he had left the City sometime, and few People knew whither he had retired. This Intelligence was perfectly true, for the Baron had contra6led fredi Debts, and to avoid the Importunity of those who had given hiiii credit, was gone to live with his Lady, now call’d baroness de Altarnont., in a Small Village Some three Leagues distant from the Capital.
Our
46 M E M O I R S ^
Our illussrious Fugitive was now without
any Hope, any shack)w of Relief. -- -- -- His
young Appetite was keen, -- Hunger press’d.
-- -- He Saw Several Boys about those populous Streets earning Bread by going on little Errands, and as he had none to give it him, and by Some churlilti People, (churchwardens or overseers ’tis polsible) threaten’d to be Sent to the House of correl: ion for asking it, he enter’d himself among that wretched Fraternity, and by doing as they did, procured for bimself the Same miserable Sublilicnce.
O! had the baroness now Seen her Son, that Son fly So fondly loved, wandering from Door to Door, — his tender and fine form’d Limbs exposed half naked to the inclement
Air, — no Lodging but the open Street, -- -- --
his Food cold Scraps, and what would more have pierced her Soul, a Companion for Vagabonds, -- unknowing, uninssruded in everything
that raises the human Species above Brutes. — Had (lie but even in Dreams beheld him thus, no desperation would have equat’d hers, the dreadful Idea would have turn’d her Brain, and the most raging madness have en sued; but (he was not so unhappy as tofusped it. At her Departure from the Castle she had conjured ‘d.uggan to write often to her, and give her a faithful Account of the young chevalier’s Condition__the poor creature was
pundual in obeying this Injundion, and acquainted her when he was taken ftom her on the Score of Education, and also when he was removed from that School to another, as (he
Supposed for more Improvement. — -- -- -- She
wrote
xjnfortunate Toun  47
Wrote according to the Information (lie received, and doubted not the .Dmh of hersest. To believe he was well, and in Favour with his Father, was all the Consolation the ba roncfs had in a Condition melancholy enough : tier Father, prepolfefs’d with false Ideas of her, refused to see, her after her Arrival, and allow’d her only a Small Fenlion merely for the common Necessaries of Life. -- -- All her Kindred
fliun’d her, -- her Acquaintance slighted her,
and every one censured her as having done Something, iho’ none could say of what Nature, that merited the Misfortunes fly fuftain’d. She heard some talk of the Baron being married, but (lie gave herself no Trouble to inquire into the Truth of it. -- Love and Jealousy
are strong Passions, and her Spirits were now too much deprefs’d to be capable of feeling them.
Her Son was not yet of an Age to be sen ■fible of the Misery of his Condition in Such a manner as to have any Effetl on his Mind, - — he was never Sad but when cold or hungry, -- -- had a great deal of Alertness in his
Nature, and inherited all the Passion of his Family, wfliich frequently occassoned him many Blows from those of his Companions who had the Advantage of him in Strength,
It happen’d one day that some Boys, Superior to hiinfelf in all Appearance, fell upon him, and beat him for Something they imagin’d he had offended them in, calling him at the same time Dog, Scoundrel, Blackguard, and suchlike foul Names, which, less able to endure than the Blows, he told them they lycd,
-- -- that
4^ Memoirs
— that he was better than any of them, for his Father was a Lord, and he (hold be ^ Lord too when he came to be a Man. — — Several idle People being gathered together to see this Battle, hearing him Say this Set up a loud Laugh, and from that time he was call’d in Derifioii nothing but My Lord.
Sometime after this, a good Sober Person, i^who was Handing at her Door, and heard this Denomination given to him, call’d him to her, and Seeing he was far from being of that dc sorm’d Make which is a reason among the Vulgar for conferring the Title of My Lord. Tell me. Said (lie, xvhy they call you my Lord,
< — that is not your Name, sure?? ma dam, answer’d he briskly, my Name is de al tamont; but I jjaall he a Lord when my Fafher dies. Ay! said the, very much Surprised, who is your Father The Baron de Altamoiit, reply’d he, and my Mother is the Baroness de Altamont, but she is gone om of the Kingdom, and they say I shall never see her again. ivho tells you all this? again demanded Qie. 0! I know it very well, cry’d he, I. lived in a great House once, and had a bootman, and then I was carry’’d to a fine School, and was reckon’’d the head Boy of them all, and had the fincjl
Clothes, -- -- and after that I was carry’d to
another School, and there they abused me'fad’y, emd turned me away, because, they said, my Fa • there would not pay them any Money for me. The Woman lissen’d with the utmost Attention to what he said, till perceiving he had done, .flic ask’d him why he did not go to his Father? 1 don’t know where to find Km, answer’d the.
poor
   49
poor Innocent, and feu a crying. Do you think fott j}jouid know him if you saw him., Said she.
very well, replied he, though it is a great while fence I saw him; but I remember he used to come in a Coach and six Horses to see me when / lived at the great School,
Nothing could exceed the Amazement which the Account he gave of himself excited in the pcrson who heard it; but willing to try him farther; I am afraid you are a lying Boy, Said she, I know the Baron de Altamont very well he never had hut one Son, and he is dead. Indeed, Madam, I tell the Truth, cry’d he, and if anybody told you I was dead they lied — I never was Jick fut once, and that was when I fell down and cut rny Forehead with a great Stone; here is the Mark of it, added he, putting back his Hair, and showing her a large Scar above his eye brow. My Father knows it well enough. Said he, for he came when my Head was bozind up, and was very angry that they had taken no more care of me.
The Person who was thus inquisitive kept a great eating house, and the chevawerrichard came frequently there; And whenever the Baron came to Town, as he Sometimes did, though very privately, this was alvvays the Place where he appointed to meet those with whom he had any bufiness. She had heard there was an Heir in the Family, and that he was dead; and to be told he was alive, and reduced to the miserable Condition this Boy was in, seem’d a thing incredible: but then again the Particulars he repeated, the Confidence with which he Spoke, and the innocent Grief he express’d at D not
50. M E M o I R s of an
not being able to find his Father, would not fulfer her to believe him an Impostor. She ruminated a good while, and resteding on the Affair of the leases which fly was perfectly acquainted with, and the baron’s second Marriage, stie grew assured in her Mind, that for the Sake of railing Money, and getting a Wife, he had renounced his Child. The Thought of Such a Barbarity struck her with Horror — She ssiudder’d at the unnatural Deed, and making the Child come in, she order’d her Servants to clean him, and Sent one out to buy Some Nc' ceffaries for clothing him, while another Spread a Table for him with Such Food as for a long time he had not tasted. He was almost beside himself at the kindness he received — he wept for Joy as he had lately done with Grief, and was ready to fall down and worship his bene fadtrefs.
Had (lie pursued her first Intention, which was to write to the Baron, the young Chevalier might perhaps have had a lasting Cause to blessher; but on recolleciing that the Chevalier Richard came often to her house, (lie thought it better to relate the whole Affair to him; in the mean time kept the young Pensioner in her house, tho’ without acquainting any of her Family with, his Name or Quality. She, examin’d him concerning his Education, and receiving from him an account how he had been treated at the last School, was (hock’d beyond measure to find a Genius, in which Nature had not been failing in her Part, So cruelly denied all the Means of improve menr.
It
V nfor I unate tou?i  51
It was not many days before the Chevalier Richard came, as (he expected. She immediately took him into a private Room, and acquainted him who (lie had in her House, and the Means by which he came there; News little pleafiug to the Hearer. — At first he Said
stie was imposed upon -- -- that his Nephew
was dead. -- -- At leajl., Said he, rccollcding
himstlf, the Boy we call’dfo; but his Mother was the mojl vicious Woman in the World, and he was no more my brother’s Son than he vs as mine. I can say nothing as to that., replied this good Woman, / had not the Honour of being acquainted with his Mother., nor even ever fazu her' but whatever jhe was., as there was no Divorce between my Lord and her., and a Child was born, he muji inherit., therefore ought to have been educated in a manner befitting the Honours he must one day receive. The Chevalier Richard Said little to this, but order’d her to let the Boy be call’d; on which he was So, and immediately came in.
He was ail new cloth’d, genteely tho’ not rich, and a certain nobleness in his Air, the fine Proportion of his Limbs, with the loveliest Hair in the World, gave no Small addition to his Dress. He enter’d the Room with Such a sweet Humility in his Countenance, as considering he was before two persons, to one of whom he had Such great Obligations, and the other who appear’d to be a Man of Quality by his Garb, for he knew him not, and paid his respcdls in So graceful and engaging a manner, that Sure no Heart but that of his obdurate Uncle, could have been unmelted’ Da at
52 M E M O I R S ^
at Seeing him thus relieved by a Stranger from the forlorn Condition he was lately in.
But this cruel Man look’d on him with a revengeful Ire, which at that time he wanted Artifice to conceal, and was visible to the charitable benefa6lrefs of the young Chevalier.
His large and fiery Eyes Sparkled with a kind of greedy Malice to dessroy the helpless Innocent : Had they been alone together, ’tis possible Something might have happen’d that would have prevented these Memoirs., and a Son of the Baron de Altamont been no more remember’d. What Name is this you take upon you? cry’d the unnatural Uncle, with a Fierceness that made the young Chevalier tremble, yet did not fright him from avowing the Truth.
I take none upon me., Sir., but that which I brought into the World with me., and was al ways calpd by., answer’d he, no body will say but I am the Son of the Baron de Altamoiit.
By whom? demanded the Chevalier Richard,
By his Wife., the Baroness de Altamont, return’d the other, with more Resolution than could have been expected from his Years, and the arbitrary manner in which he was interrogated. Then you are a Bafiard., cry’d the Chevalier Richard, for your Mother was a | Whore. I cannot help it if floe were, reply’d the baron’s Son, but I never heard anybody elfe call her so; and if / were a Man, you should not call her Whore nor me Bafiard, whoever you are. His little Heart, ready to burst at these opprobrious Names, Sent the Tears into his Eyes as he Spoke this, which moving the Woman of the house, Fy, Sir, laid Ihe,
Vix
xjnforfunate Toiin  j3
Fi! cruel to infuh the foor Child — ^ — hedamdi help his Mother's Faults if it were so, Sfhafs true., replied the Chevalier Richard, but when I tfmh how my Brother has been sifed by that isle ivrman, it puts me paji all Patience.
As he was Speaking this, the Chevalier look’d earnessly on him, and presently cry’d out, O! Sir, you are my Uncle Richard, / re member now very well, you came once to our School with my Father. I know nothing of it.. Said the unrelenting Man, and turn’d out of the Room. The Woman of the House followed, and having argued a good while in favour of the Child, he at last promised to Speak to his Brother, and that he should be taken better care of for the future; but desired she would keep him close, and not mention anything of the Affair, because it would give an uneassnessto the baroness, meaning his brother’s present Lady, if fly lliould hear anything of it.
Glad she had obtain’d this promise, she return’d to the young Chevalier, who she found crying bitterly at the unkindness of his Uncle: She bid him be of good Heart, for he was in a better Humour now, and would let the Baron know he was with her, and that he Should go to School again and have the Same Education other young Gentlemen had. This a little revived him, for never any one of his Age more paffionatcly long’d to be Mailer of those Accomplishments he had Seen in others.
But while he was delighting himself with the Imagination of being made what he ought to be, his wicked Uncle was contriving the Means to make him what none who are happy D 3 enough
54 M E M o I R s of an
enough to be baptised into the Chrissiim Faith cither ought or legally can be; in fine, of Sending him into Amarica to be disposed of as a Slave, whence there was little Probability he would ever return, to become a Claimant for that Dignity and Essate his Ambition and Avarice made him covet for himself.
He kept his Word indeed, and inform’d the Baron of the deplorable Condition his Nephew had been in, and the way he came to be relieved; and remonssrated to him, that the Child ought to be Sent fomewhcre for Education. This he thought proper to do, because he doubted, not but he would be made acquainted with the whole by the perso+i herself when next he came to Town. The iiaron could not but see! some Remorse at having abandon’d a Child who had not attain’d yet to Years capable of offending him; ’tis possible too had Some Ddire (T' feeing him; but the artful Chevalier took cafe to prevent that, by reminding him, that as it would be of ill Consequence the young Chevalier fhouid be known to be living, till after his Decease, on account of the Leases, it would be better he should be Sent immediately to St. Omers., Brujfets.) or some other Place, where he might at a cheap Rate receive an Education Suitable to his Birth.. This Advice had all the Appearance in the World of good Reason, and the Baron readily pursued it, giving his Brother at the Same time Money to reimburse the person who had taken So much Pity on him, and to provide emy thing requisite for him. The Chevalier took upon himself the Care of finding a proper. Place to Send him to, and the whole Mauage
ineiit
vnforumate Toung nomeman. gg
ment of the Affair; and the two Brothers were extremely fatisfy’d in their Minds, the one for having now the Opportunity of doing what he was fensible he had too long negledkd, and the other in having it in his Power to remove, as he flatter’d himself, for ever, the Bar of his ambitious Views.
The first Step this inhumane Uncle took, was to agree'with the Mailer of a Ship bound for Penfihania, for a certain Sum of Money to tranfpbrt the Chevalier James thither, and then he was to make what Advantage he could of him, by difpoling him in the Plantations to who bid moll. The Story he invented to bring the Mailer of the Vessel into this Project was, That the Boy being the natural Son, of a person of Condition, and not meriting the Protediion of his Father on account of a Propenflty to vile Addons, it was thought proper to send him where he might have less Opportunity of following his Inclinations. Whether this gain’d any real Credit with the Person to whom ’ewas told, cannot be said, but it served him as an Excuse for entering into a Bargain he was sure to be a Gainer by.
The Vessel not yet having taken in her Lading, the Chevalier Richard thought it improper his Nephew should continue any longer Where he was, so removed him to a House, the Master of which being entirely at his Devotion, he was kept there conceal’d till everything was ready for his going on board, but told the Woman when he took him away, that he was to embark that moment for St. Omers,
D 4. Noti
£6   ' ' *
Not many Days after this, the Baron ded.f tamont was taken ill and died; he was too Suddenly Snatched away to settle his Affairs, or make any Declaration concerning his Son, as it is probable he would, had he thought himself So near his End. As he had lived for a great while extremely private, his Death made no noise, and would Scarce have been mentioned but for the Debts he left unpaid. The Chevalier Richard immediately took upon him the Title of Baron and with it the
Essate appertaining, the late Possessor being, able todispofe of it only for his own Life.
The young Chevalier, now real Baron, was kept too close a prisoner to hear anything of this Change in his Family, and the Ship being ready to fail in a fhorttime, he was conveyed privately on board, knowing no other than that he was going Somewhere for Education; and as he had en told that nothing (hold be wanting to repair thel'ime he had already lost,, he run over in his Mind all the Sciences he remember’d to have heard the Names of, and computed how long the Study of each would take him up. In this manner did he amuse himself till they got out to Sea, but then a Sudden Storm arising, lets agreeable Ideas took the Place of those 1 have been mentioning. Whenever he cast his Eyes on the tumultuous Waves which beat on every Side the Vessel, and Sometimes rose above it, the Sight struck Terror to his little Heart, the Dread of Death Seems implanted in the Nature of humankind as a peculiar Curie, since no other Species of created Beings are capable of it; but with us, .the
Young,
xjnfortutiate Toun  57
Young, the Old, the Innocent, the Guilty, the Monarch on his Throne, the Wretch that groans in Chains, all equally languish in one common Apprehension of that tremendous Change! happiness (hudders at it, nor can Misery give it welcome. Our young Traveller tho’ yet unknowing he had been betrayed, and wholly ignorant of the Miseries he was dessined to, Suffered So much from his Fears of drowning, as made him with himself again on Shore, even in the Condition from which the good woman’s Pity had relieved him. To thofewho experience Variety of Ills theprcfent still Seems worst— — he little thought that when the Danger he now dreaded was over, he stiould receive a Shock to which all he had hitherto met with would be trivial.
The Hurricane which had continued near three Hours, being ceased, and the Waves resuming a more Smiling Face, a Cloth was Spread in the captain’s Cabin for him to take Some Refreshment after the late Fatigue, which he had no less share in than the inferior Sailors. thechevalier3'<^?»^j, who had been there during the Storm, was going to sit down at the Table, Hold. Toungjier^ cried one of the rough Tarpaulins pulling him away. Do you think you are to be a mefs mate with the iain Two Cabin boys that were waiting let up a loud Halloo at the Same time, which So much Surprised the bcguiledinnocent, that he had not Power to make any Reply. The Boy would not ehoofe the worji Company / find Said the Captain, if he were left to himself but he will know his Piftance better hereafter.
D y The
58
The Chevalier James reflesed'as much as his young Comprehension would permit on this Treatment; and as they had told him that his Passage was paid for, and he was going to an Academy for Education, he could not imagine the Reason for their not paying him the respedldue to his Birth: He Spoke not a Word however, till the Captain having dined upon Such Fare as is usually eat at good Tables on shore, he had his Allowance given him of Salt beef and Peas, and that in Such a Manner, as but in the fhorttime he was a Vagrant in the Streets, he had never even Seen. He now began to mutter, and say, that as Soon as he got out of the Ship, he would send his Father an Account how they uscd him. None but the Captain himself knowing upon what Terms he had been entered, or the Motives of hi Transportation, his Discourse was as ssrange to those he directed it, as theirs had been to him: On his mentioning however that be was going to St. Omers in order to study, and that his Father was a Lord, they eassly ibund he was ignorant of his Condition, and Some there were who, having Hearts less rugged than their Appearance denoted, very much compassionated him. What he Said coming to the captain’s Ear, he was obliged to relate the Story to the ship’s Crew, as he had heard it from the Chevalierand by this means the unhappy Youth became acquainted with the trea chery of his inhumane Uncle, and that instead of being made an accomplished Nobleman, he was going into the. worst kind of Servitude. The Complaints he uttered, the piteous Cries ’ and
   59
and Exclamations be Sent forth on the Discovery of this unparallel’d Cruelty, were So violent, that the (daptaiii fearing, in his defpera tion, he might throw himself over board, and by that means deprive him of the Advantage he might make of him, was obliged to order he should be put into the Hold, and a Watch Set over him till he became more reconciled to his ' Destiny.
In this Calamity did he make manifest a greatness of Spirit wonderful at his Years — He refused all Sustenance; nor Hunger, nor Drowth, nor Faintness, could prevail with him to take the least Refrestiment; and when by the captain’s Command they forced anything into his Mouth, he would not Suffer it to go dovvn his Throat, but spit it back again before the Faces of those that attempted to make him swallow it, though they enforced their Arguments by Some Blows and Menaces of more and much Severer. He thought not now of dying, or the Fears of it were lost in the present Agonies of Despair and Rage; and having persssted in this Relblution without the least Appearance, that anything could terrify him Out of it, the Captain thought proper to try what Soft usage and Persuasions would avail. To this End, he bad those he had in -- trusted to look after him, to bring him into his Cabin, where the Light, after having, been. kept So long in Darkness, and his weakness, thro’ fasting, made him fall into a Swoon the Moment he entered; proper Care being taken, he Soon recovered, and the Captain began to Sooth him with the kindest Words he could D 6 make
6o
make use of, told him that it was without his knowledge that his Men had dealt So ungently with him, and that he Should have everything he liked that the Ship afforded during the Voyage, and that when they came on shore he would do his utmost to place him where he Should be well used. But / jha/t have no Learning and Shalt be a Slave, Said the Chevalier. x, yes, replied the dissembling Captain, you luill have Opporthnities enough to learn anything — nor is there anything Jo terrible in the Name of Slave as you imagine — ‘‘tis only another Name for an Apprentice — you will only be bound for a certain Lime, as many Noblemens Sons in England Ireland are; andwhenyourtime is expired you will be your own Majier.
All this was insufficient to restore any kind of Contentment to the Chevalier; he sighed grievously, and Said, God would revenge his cause upon his wicked Uncle, who had told all these Lies on him, and he was Sure Sent him. unknown to his Father, because he would not let him See him. That is no Fault of mine if it he so, answered the Captain, but tf you'll promise me to eat and drink and be cheerful, FU endeavour to speak to your Father myself at my Return, and persuade him to send for you again. But can I come away if lam boundl demanded he. Tes, if your Father sends, teplkd the oth^r. these Words easily deceived a Heart that knew no Guile, and dissipated Some Part of the Gloom that had hung'on the again betrayed Chevalier; A littlepersuassonnow Sufficed to make him eat and drink what was Set before him in the captain’s Cabin, where from that
time
unfohunate Toung Nolle man. 6i
time forward he always dined and supped, and was used with So much tenderness, that noc knowing the Interess the Captain had in his Life, and the Recovery of his good Looks, he thought him the bess Friend he had in the World, and flattered himself that he would not only take care to put him to a good Mailer, but also procure his Liberty in a (hort time.
thesedeluiive Hopes, added to good Eating and Drinking, and civil Behaviour, recovered therofein our young voyager’s Complexion, and on their landing he Seemed to have lost nothing by the Fatigues he had endured; So easy is it to repair the Decays of Youth, while Age in vain endeavours to retrieve the plumpness
in the once*fallen Cheek. it was now the
Captain's bufiness to dispofe of his Property to the best Advantage he could for himself, which he did without any Regard to the promises he had made when he was under apprehensions oflojing him. The personhesold him to was a rich Planter in neiv cafileco\imy., who after paying the Money agreed on between them, took home the young Chevalier, and immedi -- ately entered him among the Number of his Slaves.
On parting from the Captain, he had begged him not to forget letting his Father know his Condition, which the other to please him af' Silling Win of, he followed his Master with less Reluctance than was expecled from him, considering the Spirit he had Wewn on board.
A new World now opened itself to the View of the Chevalier James,, in which everything he Saw was strange to him: The Habits and odd
Manners
62 M E M o IR s of an
Manners of \haindian Men and Women, the various Birds and foar*footed Animals, So different from those of Europe., would have afforded an agreeable Amusement to his attentive Mind for a considerable Time, had he been permitted to indulge it; hit. Drumon., To his Masser was called, Soon found him other Employment. — He had ssept but one Night in the house of Bondage, when he was called up at daybreak and Sent to work in the Field with his Fellow slaves.
The Labour that fell to his Share and Several others that Day, was cutting of Timber to make Pipe staves, which (Commodity is a considerable Branch of the T raffick of that County: This wasa Work our noble Slave was So little skill’d in, and was indeed So much beyond his Strength, that he had many Stripes for his Awkwardness before he had any Meat. This firss Day gave him a Sample of what he was to expedf, but as he hoped from thedeceitful Promises the Captain had made him that it would not be of any long Continuance, he Set him fdf with all his might to do the bell he could to gain the Favour of aperfon in whose Power he Soon found he was as absolutely as an Ox or an Afs, or any other Property he had made purchase of; but there are a sort of People in the World that are not to be obliged, and the greater your Endeavours for that End, the less will be your Effedh Drumon was one of these, and among the Number of Wretches under his Command, there was not one who could do anything to pieast him — — He Seemed to take a Savage Pleasure in adding to the mistry of
their
jjnfortmiafe Youn  6g
their Condition by continual ill usage, and to do everything in his Power to degenerate them from the human Species, jand render them on a Level with the mute Creation.
Nothing is indeed more ssrange than that any who have ever known abetter State, can Support with Life the hardoiips of an/fwmviz?# Slavery, which is infinitely more terrible than that of a Lurk'ip one, frightful as it is represented; for. heiides the incessant Toil they undergo, the Nature of their Labour is Such, 'that they are obliged to be continually exposed to the Air, Which is unwholsom enough,, the Heats and Colds, which the different seasons of the Year bring on in these Parts, being far greater than any wc know in Europe.. Then, after being allowed no Shelter from either of these Extremes, all the Refrcffment afforded them' is Poue, or a sort of Bread made with India Corn, heavy on the Stomach, and. insipid to the Palate, with a Draught of Water, or at best mingled with a little Ginger and Moiosses; they feass when a Didi of tiomine ox Mufo., botn which are made of the same Kind of Corn is Set before them, moistened with the Fat of Bacon or hog’s Lard. ^ This is the Manner in which the Slaves or Servants to thc^eyf jlndialfxmiqx^m general live; but Some Mast ters there are that appear more human than dru mon., and Soften in Some measure the Severity of those poor Creatures Fate by gentle Words, whereas that cruel Monster, as I laid before, took a delight in heightning their Calamities. Nor Age, nor Sex, nor the Accidents which occasioned their being in his Power, could
move
64 M E M o I It s of art
move him to the leass Compassion, but on the contrary, those received the worst Treatment from him that were entitled to the best. The Chevalier James was not the only one who experienced this cruel Partiality, there was among the Companions of his Servitude a female Slaveof near sixty Years of Age, but who had Somewhat in her Air and Afped, that, in Spite of her mean Habit, denoted her to have been a Person little accustomed to the servile Offices She was now employed in. This Woman had been the Wife ota Person of Some confide ration in England, but her Bloom being past, and anew Beauty having attradled the Inclinations of her unfaithful Husband, he contrived to get rid of her by trepanning her on board a Vessel bound for Penfthama, and having made a League with the Captain in the same Manner the Chevalier Richard had done concerning his Nephew, and got him to transport her where she fell to the Lot of the pitiless Drumon. At first he put her to wait on his Wife, believing, as Ihe had been well educated, she might be of Service to work plain work for the Farnily, but finding her Eyeswere too much impaired by the Tears (he shed at the unnatural Barbarity (lie had met with, he Sent her to the Kitchen, and made her prepare that wretched Sustenance allowed for the Slaves, and when it was ready carry it to them in the Field. Astherewas agreat Numbtr of them, and (he had frequently Some Miles to go where many of them happened to work, this was at oil the Delicacy of her Constitution could illfuf tain: Several times in a Day would ste fall
down
xjrifortiinafe Young'nobleman, 65
down through faintness, but unavailing were Gomplaints; the answers (he received were Curies and the moss Scurrilous Taunts. Once Ihe attempted to send a Letter to Some Friends mengland. in hope of being redeemed, by the Money being returned to Prumon that he paid for her; but (he was betrayed in this Design, and as he chose to part with none of his Slaves, he made her be chassifed wnth the moss cruel Stripes by way of Example to the others.
I know not but it is a sort of barbarous Policy in these Planters to use their Slaves ill, especially when the Time for which they are bound is near expired, because by the Laws of that Country when any of them run away, if they are retaken, as they commonly are, they are muldled for that Disobedience, and oblig’d to pay by a longer Servitude all the Expenses and Damages the Master pretends he has sustain’d by their Elopement, It) that by this means Some of them Serve double the Years they were contratied for: those therefore who are So unhappy either by their own Inadvertency or the Cruelty of others to be Sent thither, have no real Remedy but Patience, Since in Seeking any other they but prolong their misery, and give a Show of Justice to. the Persecutions infiided on them.
This Lesson the assliqed Woman I have just been Speaking of, was continually preaching to our young Chevalier. -- -- She had often
observ’d the Tears trickling down his Cheeks when Ihe brought him his Food, had heard him utter the most piercing Lamentations
66 of an
tions when he imagin’d himscif alone, and believing by everything (he Saw both in his Per Son and Behaviour that he was of no mean Extradion (betook avery great Fancy to him and extremely pitied him; but much more So when afterwards she heard from him the foul Play that had been offer’d him : In Spite of her own Woes ste had Some Tears to Spare for his; and perceiving that he lamented more the being depriv’d of an Education Suitable to. his Birth than all the Hardships he endured, she thought ffe could never enough admire So juss a way of.thinking in one So young. She had been a very great Reader, V as well acquainted with Hissory and the World; and tho’ a Stranger to the dead Languages knew very well the Subjects on which the ancient Historians. Poets and Philosophers had wnote, by having been conversant with the best Tranff lations of them. She now called everything (he could to her Remembrance for the advantage f this noble Slave, and whenever she had an Opportunity wrote it down on Paper and gave it to him when (lie brought his Food. By this means he became acquainted with several remarkable Occurrences of the Greek and ro man Empires, as well as the Revolutions of a later Date and nearer Home. She gave him also an Account of all the great Families in Europe, ^ paiticularly those of his owm Country; and when among that illustrious Catalogue he found any Action great or noble done by Some of his own Ancestors, his young Heart'was ready to burst, between a generous Ambiuoa and the Impossibility there
was
xjnfortunate Young Nohlamn, 6y
Was that he should ever be able to imitate them. So great was his desire of Knowledge, that whenever he was a Moment out of sight he wmuld pull out these little Pieces of Paper and read them till he got them by Heart: In this Employment being often caich’d he endured many Stripes for negledling his Work, yet d'd not the Smart deter him; and never any Boy suffer’d more Corredion for his little Propensity to Learning, than our young Chevalier did for discovering a greater than perhaps was ever known at his Years
■ -- -- much the Pity! how irreparable
the Lots to the Publish So rising a genius fhould be crulh’d by Such a Series of Cruelties and Misfortunes I Who can Sufficiently detest the base usurper of his Plight, who not content to deprive him of his Title and Estate, deprived him also of all the Improvements of the Mind. - I'he Place he Sent him to, the Station he ordain’d him to, were Such as according to all human Probability must have corrupted both his Soul and Body; yet So wonderfully did Providence interpose in favour of this young Innocent, that his pure and florid Blood flow’d thro’ his Veins untainted either with the inclement Air, coarse Food, or hard Labour he fustain’d; and his Mind, at the same time, retain’d its Sweet Simplicity, imbibing nothing of the Principles of those he was among, nor the least Tincture of their Manners.
His Sentiments and Behaviour render’d him So dear to the old Slave, that he scarce could have been more had he been her own Son. He
had.
6s M EM o I R s an
had no less Regard for his kind iii(lru6lrers; Whenever he had any cessation from Labour, instead of diverting himself as the other Servants did, he past those Moments with her, asking her Questions concerning the Motives of Such Tranladions, as (he had Set down in s the Papers (he gave him; and made Such judicious Remarks Sometimes upon them hiim ' Self, as perfectly astonilh’d her. He had an excellent Memory, which made everything his own that he once heard or read; arid as his Capacity enlarg’d with the Increase of his Years, his Ideas of Men and Things still grew more clear and distinct. On refleding on the Vices of Maukifid, he looked on Avarice and Ingratitude as the most contemptible and at the same time most dangerous to Society, and concluded that a Man possess of their op posste Virtues could not but be good in all
Circumstances of Life: -- -- -- What could be
more just than this Observation! what better could all the Learning of the Schools have enabled any one to make! Since if we look iiico the Seeds of 111, we (hall find that all the Mischiefs, Murders, Frauds and oppres fions that happen in the World, owe their Rise to one or both of these pernicious Qualities,
It was in Contemplations of this nature that our illustrious Slave beguiled four Years of the Seven he was bound to Serve, at the End of which Time the good Woman to whom he was So much indebted for the forming his Mind to Virtue, died; and as her Society had been his only (domfort, So was her loss an
incon
xjnfortunate Toun  69
inconsolable Affliction to him. -- -- He now
felt all his Woes with double Weight, having none to advise him how to bear them. His Slavery became So insupportable to him, that now for the first time he began to entertain Thoughts of making his Escape: : reach’d do farther, however, than to form a continual Desire of doing it, no Opportunity for a great while offering that could give Nm any hope of Succeeding in such an Enterprise.
He lay down in his little Hamock one, Night So full of disturb’d Meditations, that all the Weariness he felt after a Day of very great Toil could not for Some time make him fall into a Sleep; and when he did, his adtve Fancy, or rather Some Supernatural Cause (as the future Accidents of his Life would make one think) presented him with Images which his waking Thoughts never could have produced.
He imagin’d that, instead of the wretched Furniture his Bed was compos’d of, he was lying on a beautiful green Bank on the fide of a Meadow, the Verdure of which was enamell’d with a great Variety of the finest Flowers both for Colour and Fragrancy he:
had ever een- -- -- Sun seem’d as near
Setting, and gilding the tops of distant Hills added to the agreeableness of the Prospect;; all at once the Rays withdrew, — — a heavy Cloud o’erfpread the Hemisphere, — all appear’d brown and dismal, but chiefly that Part' where the Dreamer lay : he'turn’d his Eyes upwards and beheld a little above his Head a Balance of enormous Size, felf poiz’d, and
hanging
yo
hanging in the Air, each Scale by terns seeming more ponderous than the other, and • threatiiing to defeend and crush him with its
Weight- -- -- yet unable to detach
his Sight or rite from the Place he was in, he continued ga, ing till the Phenomenon, as if pluck’d by a Hand unseen, inhantly flew up and was loss in Air. This no Sooner disappear’d, than others, and yet more dreadful Objects struck his wandhing Eyes : Before him, but very high in the Cloud, he Saw a great many (alobes cut cross v%?ith numberless Lines which ran diametrically athwart each other, and from each Globe or Sphere a fiery Arrow seem’d to dart directly on him; at a greater distance, and as far as he could discern, a Svvord of a moss tremendous Length, that poinfed towards him, brought up the horrid Rear; the Blade look’d blue with keenness, the Hilt was envelopp’d with clotted Gore, and Spots of the same Colour tinged in various Places that thick Cloud in which these Wonders were exhibited.
The Chevalier remember’d in his Dream, that he had heard the Sailors when he was on board talk much of the Zodiack, and of strange Figures that possess the Several Houses, and the confus’d Idea he had of what they call’d the Signs, made him at firss imagine they were what he saw;; then, tho’ ssill asteep, recolledling that he never heard any mention of a Sword, he grew terrified, and constder’d the whole Apparition as a Menace from Heaven; this beat So ssrongly on his, Apprehension, that it broke the Bands of Sleep,
and
tjnfortimate Toung ngbleman. 71
and he awoke cover’d all over with a cold Sweat.
The Objeifis of his Dream had been So per feist and dissinst that he could Scarce believe he had been asleep, but had verily and indeed lecii them with his waking Eyes: ’tis certain they made Such an Impression on him as was never to be erased; and whenever afterwards he was in any real Danger, or under the Apprehenssons of falling into any Misfortune, the fiery Arrows and that dreadful Sword wtre always present to his Mind.
The particular relation I have made of this Dream, will doubtless be look’d upon as a piece of Impertinence and Folly by those who pretend to be too wise to pay any regard to what they call only the Esseft of a dissurb’d Imagination; but whoever shall have patience to go through these Memoirs, and compare the Accidents which afterward befell the Dreamer with the Particulars of his Dream, they will be apt to confess with me, that it must be somewhat more than the vague and inconnedled Ideas, which rise either from the Fumes of a dissemper’d Body or dissurb’d Mind. I grant indeed, that for the most pare what we call Dreams proceed from one of those two causes; but to maintain there never was or can be any other assign’d for them, and that they always are without; any signiss caiion, is running counter both to Sacred and Profane Hissory, and must be allow’d to be as great a Proof of an arrogant Objlinacy., as giving credit to alh without distindlion, is of Weahnefs and suferjuuon. Whence or
by
72 M E M O I R S
by what means these Internal Warnings are commimicated to the Soul while the Body sseeps, 1 Shall not take upon me to discuss; and only add, that the Cipinion I have that Such Things do Ibmecimes happen, is founded | not only on the Accounts given nie by Per sons whose good Uuderftanding as well as Veracity I have no reason to doubt, but also on my own Observation and Experience.
As the Chevalier James increas’d in Years,
So did his disdain of Slavery increase with them: The nearer he approach’d to Manhood the more impaiient he grew to attain the ^ua lisscations requisite for that State, especialiy in Persons of his Rank; and when he reflected on the Time he had loll, and in which others make so great a progress in Education, he became a!moll desperate, and tho’ naturally of the Sweetell Disposition could not forbear inveighing against the Barbarity of his Uncle fjchard in Terms no less Severe than just; but the wild Woods and Fields wherein he work’d were the only Witnesses of his Complaints; he had none near him that deserved his Confidence, and tho’ compelled to be an Associate in their Labours, he never partook in any of their Pleasures, if the rude Riots which on Ibme particular Days were permitted can be call’d So.
But tho’ he maintained this becoming Reserve towards them, they did not obfqrve the same with him; one in particular had often exclaimed against the Miseries of their Slavery, and the Cruelty of Drumon., and declared to him that as Soon as any Opportunity olfered he
would
   75
wmuld run away. The Chevalier listened to what he Said, but without giving any other answ’^er than that he was afraid Such a Thing was impradicable, till one Day as they were at Work together at Some Distance from the rest, he told him that he had heard of a Ship that had just taken in her Lading, and was ready to Sail fvom Dover., a great Seaport Town in the next County, and was bound ioi England. therefore. Said he, if you will bear me Company, wetl e’en make the best of our Way toward it this Night. The chevalier’s Heart beat high at the very Mention of quitting the Blocking Life he had So long endured, and knowing in other Instances that the Fellow who madethis Proposal was of a resoluteand daring Spirit, did not Scruple to believe he was determined to do as he Said, and having asked Some farther Questions, to all which the other answered as if the Thing was easy the ac complistied. It was agreed between them that in the Dead of the Night, when the whole Family were asleep, they (hold steal out and Set forward on their Journey. The Chevalier had Some difficulty in the Fears that the Captain would not admit them as Passengers as they had no Money; but the other told him that he had heard who the Captain was, and knew he was very intimate with Some Friends he had in England, and on that account would stay for the Payment of their passage money tiu they came on Shore, and that thenthey might send to their Relations. This Satisfied our noble Slave, who having nothing in view but the regaining his Liberty and returriing to E Europe
74 M E M o IR s ^ n/z
ieurope, did his Dulinefs that Day with a more than ordinary Alacrity, and at Night about the usual Hour went to his Hamock, as did the other Slave to give no fuspieion to thef.a mily. An Enterprise of Such Moment to the persons who undertook it, might be Supposed to fill their Heads Sufficiently to keep them waking; and the Chevalier James being otherwise far from a heavy and ssuggifh Constitution, it was little to be imagined he ffiould now neglect the Hour in which he had pro inifed to meet the intended Companion of his Flight; yet So it happen’d : He no Sooner laid himself down than he fell into the most pro fouiid Sleep he had ever known, and opened not his Eyes till he was called to his daily Labour: Amazed he started up, and looking round him found the Sun was high advanced;
-- -- the Rage he was in with h'mself for
Slaving as he thought by a fatal Sloth lost the Opportunity of recovering his Liberty, is not to be expressed. He was in this Agony of despair and self condemnation, when all on a. Sudden he heard a great Confusion in the house: He ran to know the Occaston, and heard his Master had been robbed: That a Bag of Money had been taken out of his Buroe, and Several Small Pieces of Plate which stood in a
Corner Cupboard in the Parlour. -- -- All the
Slaves and Servants were immediately called together, and Jacob., for So the Fugitive was called, being missing, they no longer had any difficulty in guesting who had been the Thief. On this, persons were immediately dispatched' in Search of him all round the County, and
Such
   75
Such proper measures taken in the pursuit, that the Chevalier doubted not but he would be brought back. How did he now bless the happy Slugginmefs he So lately cursed! How admire the goodness of all disposing Providence, that would not Suffer him to be thought the Partaker of this wretch’s Guilt, as he must have been had he been the Companion of his Flight: As he was extremely Just in his Nature, and disdain’d a base Action even more than a mean Servitude, he would Sooner have chose to have languifli’d out his whole Life in the one, than have committed the other to gain not only his Liberty but all other Things the World calls good. He now even became So Scrupulous, that he knew not if an Opportunity of escaping without Danger Should offer itself whether he ought to accept it; because as he was the Property of dru rnon.^ and bis Service purchased by him for a certain Time, it seem’d not stridly Just he Should deprive him of himself without an as surance of having it in his Power to return him as much Money as the residue of his Time with him might be worth. How truly wmrthy of a Nobleman were Sentiments Such as these I How few are capable of entertaining them, especially at his Years and in his Circumstances, I might say of his Humour too; for tho’ he was good natur’d almost to an excess, yet he was very liable to Passion, Rash and Impetuous when urged; this indeed may be Said to be the only Shadow to his Virtues, and it cannot be too much lamented that he was not in his early Years E 2, under
■y6
Milder that proper Regulation, which might have ftewn him the Error and inssrudled hiift “how to corredt it in irs fir ft Approaches. But this was a disposttinn he had little'opporui nities ctf indulging in his Slavery, and as the Spark's Of it could not ftioot oiit till aster wards, perhaps that very Restraint it vva's that Made them blaze With greater Fury when kt ioo’st.
The Unfortunare jacob was the next Day brought back, bound Hand and f’oot, to receive the punintfneijt due to his double Crime: He had not gone more than twenty Seven Miles when he was taken, and the Money land Plate Was Soiind upon him unimbezzled ■find just ns he hhd purloin’d them. altoon as they carried him before Drumon, he order’d him to be stripped dovvh to the Waste and tied to a Poll before the Door, and then to receive twenty Lashes from each of his fellow ssaves, iaster this he Was put down into a Dungeon aud kept there for four Days, at the expiration of which he Was re sold to a Plariter in phikdaphia^^vidi iiever appear’d again at new ’etipte.
It must be confess’d that this Fellow deserved even more Correfiion than he met with, 's^nd by the Laws of that Country ought to havehbin branded on the Forehead; nor Wds it out Of Pity to him that remitted that
part of his puniftiment, but that knowing him to be a daring desperate Fellow lie had a mind to part With hifn, Which he could not have xiois: On fueh good Terms had he glen him thift ^marlcof guilt.*.i^thus‘can the inoft cruel
Tempers
   j/j
Tempers show Mercy wh©n they find it is their Interest to do So..
He made use however of a very wrong Policy in ray Mind; for instead of uling his Slaves with more gentleness in order to prevent their following the Example of Jaeoby his, Barbarity after this increas’d; and on the least Alurmur from any of them he would cry, Whats you vjant to do as the roy^tie Jacob did; hut you see vyhat he got by it., and you perhaps may not come off so eajily. ’tis certain that nothing is more difficult thari for a Slave or Servant in America to make his Escape without being retaken, because the Master Spares no Expense for that Purpose as it all falls upon the Slaves, and they are compelled by the Laws to Serve so much longer. But yet would they be prevailed upon to try the sweetness of that Service wdiich proceeds froiit Lotue rather than I fancy ‘they would find their Accottnt in it; and by endeavouring to engage the om., find they would have, no occasron for iafpiruig the oths, r, it is infinitely more difficult to com tnand with piscretion t; han it is to obey : Few know how to make a right Ufc of Power They (hew too great a Confeioufnefs of it, and imagine they cannot be Rulers without being Tyrants, and this it is that gives afpe rity to Subserviency; and it is this mistaken Exertion of Authority that ocgalions, reben lions in States and Elopernents ip pfivate Fain i lies.
The Chevalier had now attain’d, to fevewtecn Year?, more than five of which he Eg had
ys Mn MO ms of an
had languifh’d in this miserable Bondage, but he was So Sar from being more easy by being So long inur’d, that his Impatience to be eased of it grew ssronger every day. His Labour •was toilsome and incessant, his Fare was hard and insufficient for the Calls of Nature; the Blows he frequently received were painful; yet were all these the least galling Portions of his Slavery: The Reflection how and when he had been trepan’d into it, was infinitely
Severer than all his Body could endure. -- -- -- -- -
Resentment against that Author of his Woes, his inhuman Uncle, was a continual Vulture preying on his Peace; and he would havedone everything, hazarded everything, and suffer’d everything, to obtain the satistaisiion of upbraiding and exposing himforthe unwarantable and unnatural Adi.
It was in one of these Fits of Rage and Desperation, that, unmindful of the Difficulties he was to encounter, and the Prolongation of his Slavery if he Succeeded not in his enter prize, that he quitted the House of Drumon, determined rather to Suffer himself to be cut to pieces than brought bade. To this end he took a Hedging bill with him, that in cafe he
■ Should be overtaken by any that might be Sent in Pursuit of him, they(hou1d not find him So cafy to be taken as 'fcoh had been. As he was well limb’d and extremely nimble, he
. had gain’d many Miles before he was miss’d,
; but as Soon as he was So, Men and Horses
■ Sent after him. They polled directly toward Dellawar River, that being the Rout the ruii away Slaves usually take, in hope of finding
xjnfortunate Toun  79
ing Some Ship where they might enter them selves. This was the chevalier’s Design, but through eagerness to be too quick for his pursuers, he mistook his way at first Setting out, and without Sufpedling he had done So, kept running on, till instead of Dellawar he came to Sarfquahanna.^ a large River, that parts the Province of penjilvamad.iom the five Nations of the/ro^«o/j.
Tho’ he had never Seen Dellawar River since his landing, the little he remember’d of it, Served to asture him this was not the Same: He was not difmay’d at it, however, for as he Saw Some Shipping, tho’ at a great Distance, he hoped he should be able to find Some means of getting nearer them, either by Boat or travelling on by the Coast. He perceived also, that he was not far from a Town, but he chose not to venture to it, but to take Shelter in the Covert of a Wood for that Night. Early the next Morning he renew’d his Journey, but whither he dire6iedhis Courfehe was wholly ignorant, for tho’ he met Several People he durst not fall into discourse with them,
. or ask them any Questions for fear of being Sufpeded. In fine, he wander’d thus for three Days, without any other Sustenance than what the Woods afforded, and growing too faint to travel farther, as well as desperate of ever getting out of that Country, he laid himself down at the Foot of a Tree, thinking to rise no more, when a strange Chance brought him at once Relief and frefii Calamities. It was near the close of Day when he took up this me lancholy Lodging, and Night bad not yet E 4 drawn
io M E M O I R S
drawn her Curtain o’er thath'emifphere, when he was furprsted with the trampling of Horses coming towards him in as full a Gallop as the thickrcss of the Wood would permit: On listing up his Eyes he law two Men well mounted, one of whom had a Woman behind liimi, and the other a large Pertinancle and several Bundles. As these did not Seem to be Pursuers, and Were Faces he had never leen, he took Courage, but much more fb, when after they had' hop’d, he heard' him who had the Woman with him Say, Cowr, my ifcar, As time mvj for you to take fume Refrefoment^ nd I think we emnot find a mere convenient Place. With that he alighted, nnd having with rhe utmost renderness helped her to do the same, the other jump’d from his Horse, and 'taking hold of the Bridle, as also( ( that which he who. seem’d to be the Master had newly quitted, fallen’d both to a Tree very near that where the Chevalier was. He then unty’d •one of the Bags, and taking out a Napkin, Spread it upon the Grass, and Set before them ibme choice food and a Bottle of rich Wine; The Gentleman and Lady Sat down and began to eat very heartily, at the sight of which our almost famifli’d Wanderer figh’d inwardly, hut could not resolve with himself to venture .forth and iritreat to be a Guest. On raising bis Head to look on them, however, he made Some rustlingamong the Leaven of some Shrubs which grew about thetree, and had conceal’d him from the Eyes of these new comers; that little Noise he made alarm’d the vigilant Waiter, and turning to See whcnc© it proceeded, he
plainly
 iin  8 \
plainly Saw the disconfolate Youth, d. Man cried he, xi^e are betrafd\ and at the Same tlnie ssruck at him with the Cutlace Such a i^low, as, had it not misb’4 him, would hav clest him in two. The Lady shrie ck’d, and the Qeiitleman, for So he appear’d, drew hissword, and was, coming to Second his Man in the de i (trutiioii of a person they supposed to be a Spy j but the Chevalier perceiving their Mistake, aiid the eminent Danger he was in, ssarted up, arid falling on bis Knees, Spare., I hefeechyou., Sir Said he, an mmcent Touth., who war hrotighf hither by his own. jyiiskrt^nes.f and bad nq Dejigta todifurb or be a Sfy npon your Atlions. these Words, and the Sight of him, which excited rather Pity than Indignation, made the Stranger put up his Sword; but the Lady, not yet quite assured her Apprehensions had been vain, ask’d him who he was, and what had occa fion’d his being in a Place So unfrequented? On which he found himself obliged to make a brief Recital of the gause, as the only means of avoiding that Death their suspicion? threa* ten’d, and another also, which he Savy it was in their Power to preserve. He had no Sooner ended his little Narrative, than the chearfun ncss return’d to all their Faces, and finding by the Cpnclulion of his Hiilory the Want he was in of their Assissance, they made him lit down, and partake with them of what they were eating. In the Circumssances he then was, Such ■ an Invitation was not to be restifed; he accepted it thankfully, and being feared as they were while the Repast lasted, the Stranger told him, that as he expressed an Impatience of returning E y. t
82 Memoirs an
to Europe, if he could keep pace with their horses, he might go with them to apoquine mink, where a vdsel waited for them to carry them to Holland, in which they would take care he Should have a Passage. This was joyful News indeed to the Chevalier, and he told them he did not doubt but the Dclire he had of getting out of that Country, would give him Strength and nimbleness enough not to quit their Company, in Spite of the Fatigues he had So lately endured. Scarce ever in his Life had he felt that satisfa£lion he now did : He look’d on these People as his guardian Angels, and Sent from Heaven for his Deliverance.
Said the Lady, ive are in Danger of being pur [tied as well as you, and therefore must travel all Night. This was still more pleasing to the Chevalier; ioi Apoquinemink being in the Neighbourhood of Newcajlle, he might have been in Danger of being discovered by Some one who possibly had feeit him at Drumord^.
After they had ressed thenisclves a short Space, they remounted andpursued their Journey thro’ the Foress, the Chevalier following as fast as he could, imploring Heaven to give him Strength to keep up with them; whether his Ability would have conform’d to his Inclination is uncertain, but they had not left the P'orcss above three Furlongs, before they heard a great number of Horses following in full Speed, and presently law Lights behind them.
-- Nothing could equal the Alarm this gave
both the Gentleman and his fair Companion, especially as they drew more near, when looking back, (lie scream’d out, ’TV/ he, ’tis he
hirnfelf
Utifortunate Toun  83
Mmfelf., we are lost for ever! -- There was no
time for further Speech, those they dreaded in
an Inssant were upon them. -- -- -- -- -- The Lady
flung herself off the horse, and ran as if to Seek Ibme Covert. — The Gentleman drew his Sword and the Servant hiscutlace, and faced about on those that came to attack them : The Chevalier too, thinking he ought in Honour to do his best in the Defence of the Company he was with, began to lay about him with his Hedging bill; but the Combat was too unequal, and tho’ they fought like Men who knew inevitable Death attended them if taken, they were presently Surrounded and all of them made Prisoners: The Lady was taken up in a Swoon and laid before one of the Vanquifliers, her Companion and his Servant were bound on their own Horses, and the unfortunate Chevalier had both his Hands ty’d and fasten’d to the Tail of one of their Horses, and in thiis wretched Plight were they conduced to a little Village, where they remain’d till Morning, but in different Rooms; and as Soon as Daybreak, bound as before, and made to travel in the same manner, stopping no more till they arrived at cheftertovftn.^ where they were all immediately carry’d to the common Gaol, and lodged apart as they had been at the Village.
Here, as ’tis common in Such Places, when any new Prisoners are brought in, to canvas their Characters and Crimes, was the Chevalier made Senstble who the Persons were he; had been with, and also those who had deprived them of the Means of pursuing their Intentions.
'He
84 M E M o I R s ^
He heard that the Lady was the Daughter of a rich Trader at chefter toytu.^ and that being discovered to have an Inclination for a young Man very much beneath her, stie had been compelled by her Father to marry one he made Choice of for her, but for whom she had an extreme Aversion: That Ihe afterwards kept Coinpany privately with her first Lover, who was the person taken with her, and they agreed that (he (hold rob her Husband of everything of Value that she could conveniently take, and go with him to live in Some foreign Country; but that their Ddign being overheard, it was distovered to her Husband, who presently got a Warrant and proper Officers to apprehend them; that he had join’d himself and all his Friends in the pursuit; and that, as he had been So fortunate to overtake them, it was not to'be doubted but he would prosecute them, and all concern’d in their Enterprise, with the utmost Rigour of the Law. >
The Chevalier ‘james (hudder’d at this dif course, he was troubled for the Delinquents, and was under Some Apprehensions for himself, notwithstanding the little (hare he had either in their Crimes or Adventures. He now perceived how dangerous a thing it is to associate ones self withperfons one has no Knowledge of, but in the Condition he was at that time, who could have blam’d him for asing in the manner he didi*
In the Morning they were all brought forth and carry’d into the Court of judicature, where the Trial lasted not long; all the Husband ac cused them of was proved upon them, and
ihuse
 im  85
those unhappy Lovers, with the Man who attended them, were all three condemn’d to die. Concerning the Chevalier 'james there was a Demur: His being found in their Company, and joining with them in oppossng those who came to apprehend them. seem’d to render him a Partner in their Crime; but then his Youth, and the full Account he was now obliged to give of himself, and the Accident by which he came to be with them, pleaded strongly in his Favour. butthepoint was a long time in debate, and the Judges not being able to decide it, he was remanded back to prison, with Orders given to the Jailor, that he stiould be brought every day to the marketplace and espofed to public View, in order that if any one that Saw him should prove he had ever been at Che jier town before his being brought thither as a Prisoner, he should be look’d upon as ac cdsary to the Robbery, and Suffer the Same Fate with the others.
For five Weeks did he continue in this dreadful suspence; innocent as he knew himself not only of the Crime, but also of having before that fatal time been ever near that pan of the Country, there must be Something terrible in a Situation Such as his, where his Life depended on Chance. — How often has it happen’d that one Man has been mistaken for another, and he could not be certain that this would not be the Cafe with him : The Accidents of his Life had hitherto been So unfortunate, that he might with Reason fear the worst; but he was at last eased of these ap prehenlions, tho’ by a way little less dreadful
than
86 Memo i r s of an
than the Certainty of ihose Apprehennon& would have been.
Some Affairs of Traffic brought Drumon to Chejier., he Saw his Slave, and having inquired into the Mouves of his being thus exposed, was presently made acquainted with the whole History of his being apprehended, and thecauseof itj on which he went immediately to the Jussices and claim’d him as his Property: The Time of his running away, as Sworn to by agreeing exafily with the Account
the Chevalier had given of himself, this unhappy Nobleman, who seem’d born to be deliver’d only from one misery to fall into another, was acquitted of any Partnership in the Crimes of the condemned Persons, and dm rnm rejoicing he had So unexpesedly recovered his Fugitive, took him home as Soon as the buliness which had occalion’d his coming to Chester was completed.
Before their Departure they had the dreadful Spedlacle of the two unhappy Lovers Execution, than which nothing was ever more pity moving. He seem’d ail Despair and Grief, but it was that his luckless Passion had brought so amiable a Creature to Destrudlion. — She fwoon’d, and half anticipated the Work of the Executioner, to See the only Man Ihe had ever loved about to Suffer for her Sake. They embraced, and when Separated, broke from the Arms that held them and embraced again, and when by greater Force ressrain’d from any farther Adieus of that kind, the Soul of each Seemed to fffae in a mutual Shriek.
All
i ■
   87
All who were capable of Tears wept at their Fate, and the general Voice condemn’d the Father of this beautiful Criminal, who by compelling her Inclinations gavesource to this Scene of Woe. The Chevalier above all was particu lurly touch’d; the Kindness they had (hewn him the few Minutes (Tor it reach’d not to an Hour) he was with them, had So won upon his grateful Heart, that it was ready to burst with Grief, and render’d him in a manner forgetful of his own Concerns. During their Stay at Chester., the cunning contented
himself with only reproaching him for quitting him wn’thout having done anything, as he Said, to give him a Pretence for it, reserving the Challifement he intended for him till he had him again Safe ^tnewcafile; but on their Arrival there he let all his Fury loose, and repre -- fented the loss his Flight had been to him, and theexpences he had been at in endeavouring to retake him, with Such Exaggerations, that the Jussices mulfted him for two Years, So that he had now four Years to remain a Slave. Not content with this, the revengeful Drurrion Set him Tasks utterly impossible to be perform’d, gave him Stripes without Mercy for his enforced Disobedience, and Food in such Scanty Portions, that it might be Said only was Sufficient to keep him from perissiing.
In ssiort his usage, always bad, was now become intolerable, and Such as would doubtless have tempted the Chevalier to have ventured a Second Flight, had he not been too closely w^atch’d to obtain any Opportunity. As the only redress left for him, and that a
poor
88 Me m o I r s cf an
poor one, he went to the Jussices and made his (Complaint; on Jhe hearing of which Dru won was ordered to dispofe of him to Some other Mailer: Which was Soon after done to one of the Same County; but the still unhappy Slave found no Change in his Condition by this Change of Hands; the petson whose Property he was now become, being of as cruel and inexorable a dispofition as Drumm himself. There was indeed So little Difference between their usage of him, that to give a Description of it would be only repeating what has been already laid. He bore it however for three Years, having fliil in mind the Danger he had been in when taken by the People of Chester and had perhaps continued a i'welve month more, which would have com pleated his whole Time, had he not fallen into Company with Ibme Sailors, who persuaded him to enter himfdf on board the Ship to which they belong’d, promising to conceal him till they fail’d, which they said would be in a few days. The difeourse he had with them of Europe.) particularly of his native Country, renewing his Impatience to return, he relblved to venture once more, and accordingly accompany’d them to the Vessel. Bat before they could get on board, the Mailer by Some of hi Spies being inform’d of this deogn, Tent after, and had him taken. For this Offence he wms muldled no less than four Years, a most unreasonable Time; but Several of the Slaves having been lately discovered an in Attempt to make their Escape, this Severity was infliified on him as an Example
and
Vnfortunate' Toun  89
and Terror to the rest; and in this Intlance, .as well as in many others, he suffered for the Faults of others more than for his own.
This lass Misfortune So Sunk the Spirits of our illustrious Slave, that in a short time he was Scarce to be known: Instead of his once fresti and rosy Colour, a livid faleness Over spread his Cheeks — his Eyes loss great part of their former Lustre, and were continually
call down -- -- his sprightliness was converted
into a kind of dead Sloth -- -- a Melancholy
which is not to be express’d hung upon his Heart, and fhew’d itself in all his Looks and Actions. The great Change that appeared in him giving his Master Some Apprehensions of losing him, he began to treat him with some whac icss Austerity, and gave his Wife, who of herself was a very good Woman, permis sson to take him into the house, at Such times as he was abroad, and give him part of Such Food as they eat at their own Table, as if unknown to him. ill judging Man, he imagin’d that to stiew the least kindness to a Slave hiin felf, would be derogating from his Authority; but such is the Temper of most, who from a low Fortune rise to Riches and Power without having been bless with an Education to inr Spire better Notions, or else having them from Nature, which is very extraordinary, but when found in any one, as greatly to be applauded.
The Chevalier received the Favours fhewii him by his missress with a becoming Gratitude, but though Iheeven exceeded her Commission, and he wanted for nothing as to Eating and
Drinking,
90
Drinking, yet this kindness contributed littl® to the Dissipation of his sadness — a deep sense of his Misfortunes had now took hold
of him -- the ardent Desires he had from Nature
to attain those acgomplilhments he had an Idea of, made him look back with Horror upon the precious Years, which fiiould have been employed in learning them, irrecoverably lost in an ignominious Slavery — He knew what
ought to be, and to think he never cod'd be what he oughtand wifiied to be, was adagger to his Soul, which gave Wounds too severe for anything in the Power of those he was among to heal.
He was one Day sighing over Some Meat that was given him by his missress, when she being called out of the Room on Some occa fion, Ihe ordered her Daughter, a very amiable young Creature of about fourteen, or Sisteeii Years of Age, to give him a littlecanof Wine. - — The Girl readily obeyed, but presented it to him with a trembling Hand, and So visible a Confusion, that the Chevalier, sunk as he was in Sorrow, could not help taking notice of if, and asked if (lie were not well? Not very well answered Oie, I have an ugly Pain at my Heart, / am ferry for it, Said he, but you will soon be
well again -- Dijlempers of the Body are eaftly
removed; but those of the Mind are terrible in deed. In Speaking these Words he gave a Sigh, _ which showed he felt the extremest Anguish of the Ailment he had mentioned. I know, resumed fiie, there is nothing so much to be pitied as a troubled Mind: But do you think ym are the only Person that is unhappy? Ill
warrant
 iin  gi 
warrant there are many People ha the World that have greater Cause for Sadaefs than you. That cannot be., cry’d the Chevalier, but if it •were so., the Knowledge of others Woes vjorfd be far from lejj'enwg mine. Lhafs true indeed Said Ihe, but Fwould fain put you in mind of fometjoing that would make youbear your Mis fortunes
with more Patience -- confaer, Jaints^
that all this Ajflidion will rather add to them than any way diminifo them • — pray therefore be more chearjul — indeed 1 would do anything I could to make you so; for I pity you from ray Heart. — — She was going to add Something more, possibly what would have let him into the secret Source of that Pain at her Heart (he had complained of, but her mother’s Return prevented her, and (he drew back to a Window, where (lie stood looking out without taking any Sarther notice of the Chevalier at that time.
Having ssnissied his little Repast, he wtiit to Work without thinking anything farther of his young missress’s Behaviour, than that it proceeded from good nature; but he was fooii convinced that the miseries he had undergone through the Severity of the Father, were fully revenged on the Daughter; this young Girl being possess of a Passion for him more violent than is ordinarily found in Persons of her tender Age. The Accident which discovered it to him was this:
A young/ndian Maid, whose Parents lived in the Neighbourhood, and who on that Account had frequent Occasions of passing thro’ those Woods and Fields in which the Chevalier was usually employed, had distinguished him
in
92 Memo I RS <?/ ati
in particular manner from his fellow Slaves; and as the Women of that Country haveekhec less Modelly or more vsimplicky than those born and bred up m Europe: She made no Efforts to conceal the tenderness he bad inspired her with, but on the contrary took all opp.t tunities to be in his Company; fly would sit whole Hours by him while he was selling Timber, help him to gather up the Branches, and do everything her Strength would permit
JO affiit him in his Labours. she told him
she could never love any but him, and that if he would marry her when he had served out his Time, (lie W'culd work so hard that (he would save him the Expense of two Slaves. 7 he Chevalier, whose Trouble was too great to admit Room for any Sentiments of that Kind, much more for one of her Conditioa and Country, plainly told her thathe would not have her think of anyfuch Thing; for as Soon as his Time was expired he was resolved to return to ehrope. — — Ow this (he felt a weeping; But, Said (he, cannot y, ou take me vyiih you — I whlgo 'tpith you. all oftyer the World if you will but love me, Alas! replied he, I would not be so crttelto take you from your pa rents and your Country — besides, one of your Nation wofild not be so well received in mine; and there are a great many other Reasons, added he, why I cannot marry yosi. These Words wtreno sooner uttered, than (he Screamed out Something in her own language which he did not underssand, and immediately fell intoaf'it. Neither Gratitude nor Compassion would admit he should tiegled evqry thing in his Sovyer to
bring
 utig i^ohkman. 9^
brihgher to herself, and having nothing elfeas Hhnd, hecatched up a Piece of Wood that had ft Hoi'low in it, and ran to a Brook and filled it Wirh Water, which he threw on her Face, and toolcherin his ^hrnis to list her from the Ground; just as he was Seating her on a large x^rm of a Tree Which he had lately fell’d, Marla., So bis mailer’s Daughter was called, under Pretence Of taking the Air came into the Field, and faw rite xstdlion in which he was employed. — She Was now seized with another and more tor mehtingpaffion than Love, and is the greatest curse of it, I need not Say I mean Jealousy, few that have known the one in any very great Degree but have experienced the other; Poor Maria now felt the Force of borh, and was very tiear being in the Same Condition with the Indian; hijll her Pride rendering her disdainful of such a Rival, was in this Jundture of Some Service, and enabled her to draw towards them wirh adefign of reproaching him for the Choice hehadmadeof a mistress, in an Air which he might take Only for Raliery. As she came more near, she heard him say, Turquois my dear Lurquois., moderate your Passion; and then Saw the new recovered Maid throw her Arms about his Neck, and print Several Kisses on his Cheeks: Such a Sight put her past the Power of executing her Ddign, and instead of laughing at him as she intended, stie flew to the infidn., and having pussied her roughly away, turned to the Chevalier, and gave hnn a Box on the Ear, calling him at the lame time ungrateful and base.
Poor
94 Memoirs
Poor ltirquois away frighted at her Rage, ad the Chevalier himself was So much aftonilhed at it, that he had not Power to
Speak -- At lass, after (he had over and over
repeated the Word ungrateful, he broke Silence. I cannot imagine., Said he, what you mean by accusing me in this manner — it is not in mynature to be ungrateful., and I am sure I mujl have been fois I had let this young Maid have died for want of any ajfiftance I could give her'. What then, cry’d (he, is it by Kijfes and Embraces pe was to be kept alive? Go — continued fne, I hate you, now lhavefeen youin her Arms. It was not my Inclination to be there, answered the Chevalier, but if it had, I see no great Cause for Afionipment in a Man of my Age, and even much less that it pould be an Offence to you', — however, added he, / have that Refpea for you as to be sorry to do anything you pould think isjuch.
In the lime he was Speaking, ssie reflesed a little on her Behaviour, and perceiving the Imprudence (he had been guilty of, was ready to die with Shame— — pat her Handkerchief before her Face to conceal the Blushes she could not restrain, alidby that Action added to the chevalier’s Surprise, What isthemeati sng. Madam, of all this. Said he? if to speak to Turquois be imputed to me as a Fault, I will
avoid her as much as I am able 1 affure you
I never encouraged the frequent Visits pe has made me in this Forop, and am truly sorry for her Sake that foe ever came here. For her Sake! cry’d ssie, Ifuppofe pe came here to please herself; but if pe has got any Hurt by it, pe will
do
unfotiunate Youn  9^
«/(? well to keep away for the future. I hope Jhe wilf Said the Chevalier. That depends very much upon yourfeld. resumed Maria hassily, and if you think it worth your while to oblige me you'll
never peak to her again -- but do as you think
Jit,, added file, preventing himsrom replying —
I lay no Injundiions upon you — if you value her more than me, you may continue your acqud.tn'^ tance — / Jloan't give myself any Trouble about it, nor vjill ever peak to you again. With these Words fbe turned from him, and went away, as not desiring any answer. He attempted not to follow her, or dive into the Mystery of her Behaviour. unpradised as he was in Love, Nature was too good an infirudress not to make him know her Resentment proceeded only from the excess of her Affection; and tho’ file told him not in plain Words, as the simple Indian had done, that fiie loved him, the manner in which file acted at feeing them together as plainly discovered it.
He found himself now with two Missreffes of different Complexions land Manners; the one was born and bred up in Paganism, though with her Family lately turned to the Worship of the true God, more out of Form than Faith., She was not above thirteen Years of Age but tall, and had an admirable Shape; her Features were regular to a Nicety; het Eyes full of Sweetness and Lufire, and her Skin So much whiter than what is ordinarily found among the Natives of that Country, that (he might very well have passed for an European, and if here would have been called a brown Beauty: She was innocent, good-natured, and knew not
the
pb.. ^ m emoirs
the Artof disguifing her Thoughts; but, as the lr)ofhois in general are impatient in misfor ttmes, and restrained by no Considerations whatever from gratifyingtheir Inclinations, stie ihawed that fly (degenerated not from her Race, but had in her Compoiition allthevio* lence, all the Resolution, though not all the thirst of ‘revenge Some of them have manifested.
Maria was a very lovely Creature too, but just the opposite of all this; (he was extremely fair, had yellow tiair, fine blue Eyes, which Spoke the Tendernds of her Heirt, bat was a little vain and inclined to Coquetry, She was much admired and complimented by the young Men; but though stie was pleased with their Addresses, none of them made any Impression on her Heart, the agreeable Slave, without attempting, or even once thinking of such a
thing, reigned Sole Master there from the
first Moment (lie saw him (he loved, and though she had good Understanding enough to know, that in spite of all the difeourse there was of his being a Man of Quality, there was little Probability that her Father, who was very wealthy, and had no Child but herself, would ever consent to dispose of her to one who was in the Condition of a Slave, yet was her faf sson too strong for all Impediments, and (he thought if she cou’d but once engage his Affections to run all Hazards with him. To this End (he had made him all the Advances Mo = would permit, and the Infenlibility he sticwed either of them or Of that Beauty which the Praises daily given it had made her think
const
   97
considerable, gave both her Love and Pride the Severest Mortification; but as both these pas fions are apt to flatter with delusive Hopes, (he coiisoled herself with a Belief that there (till would come atime when he fliou’dgrow less indiflerent. The furprifmg him with in the Manner already mentioned, defiroyingat once this pleafingexpesation, and adding jea jousy to her former Anxieties, made her now feel all the 7"ortures of despairing Love and humbledvanity.
Few'’ Men but would have taken Some Plea sure in being beloved by two Such fine young Creatures as Maria and Lorqmis., nor was our Chevalier of So cold a Constitution as to render him incapable of being moved by Beauty, had not the whole Afiedlions of his Soul been So taken up with the Desires of quitting that Part of the World, that everything in it was dis tasseful to him. He pitied both these Girls, but had not the least Spark of Inclination for either, and (he Apprehensions that the Violence of their Passion might produce Some ill conse quence, tiiough of what Kind he could not foresee, gave no Small Addition to his former Discontents.
in order to prevent anyincrease of this unhappy Passion, and (hew how little he was de 1/rous of encouraging it in either, he took pains, to fliuii the Society of both as much as possible. To avoid feeing or Speaking to Maria,, he came V ery little to her Mother, choofingrather to relinquish that Refreshment (lie had of late afforded him, than give any Opportunity to her Daughter osentring into any (jonyersatioii with F him
9^
him — and to be out of the way of Ihrqmls,, he put his Master in mind of Ibme Fences that were broke down, in a Piece of Ground at a good Distance from that in which lie used to see the Indian Maid, anti obtained leave to go with another Slave, and repair the Damages.
As neither of them wanted Sense, both easily Saw into the Meaning of this Behaviour, and each imagining herself slighted for the sake of the other,, conceived the most inveterate Hatred forher supposed more happy Rival.
In vain for Several Days did both endeavour to find an Opportunity of reproaching him, he kept So far out of the Walks of the ohe, and lb artfully avoided being alone with the other, that neither had the Advantage each so ardently ddired. At last Maria., impatient to vent the various Agitations (he was full of, knowing where he worked, rcsoived to make a Pretence for going thither; Torquois having also discovered where it was, had the Same Intention, and happened to make choice of the very Day and Hour Maria did. In a little Meadow which bordered oiifa River, unhappily these rival Beauties met: — They Saw, and each guested the other’s bufiness, and fired alike with jealous Rage, mutually meditated how to disappoint it. Maria imagined (lie might awe the by Some Looks and Words Ihe was preparing to accost her with; but d/ry/to/v, more violent, gave her not the leisure : She no Iboiier had her in her Reach, than like an in -- censed lioness, stie threw herself upon her, and sti2.ing her by thethr.oat, griped her Neck to fust between her Hands, that (he was very
near
 tin  99
near being strangled. Maria Was natiirally. timid, and less (hong than her Rival; but the Pain and Fear of Death (lie was in, redoubled her Vigour, and enabled her to make Such a Struggle, that fly at length unloosed hersclf, and flew with the utmost Speed toward the
Place (he intended to go -- Torqmis, ^ finding
her Prey escaped, and doubting not but fhewas gone to make her Complaint to the dear Objeist
of her Wishes- -- with Despair and frustrated
Revenge, (lie ran dirc<9: ly to the River, and plunged headlong in, putting an End at once to her unhappy Love and Life.
Maria being atagooddiftance, turning back her Eyes to see if (he was pursued, Saw this dreadful Catastropheof her rival’s Fare, which frighting her little left than the Danger (he had been in herself from her Fury, (he began a Scream, which continued till (he came within hearing of the Chevalier and his Companioin They turned about amaxed whence the Sound proceeded, but much more at the Sight of their young mistress pale, breathleft with Slight and Fear, and all the Signs of Horror in her Countenance.
Both asked the cause at once, but neither could be resolved — She had Power to lay no more than — Turquoisl oturquoisl and fell into a Swoon; they did what they could tore cover her, but in vain, and they were obliged to take her up and carry .her home between them in all Appearance dead. Her Mother, at feeing her thus brought, was reduced almost to the Same Condition — her Father was alarmed — all the Family was in the utmost Gonfufion — FI the
100 M E M o I R s c
the Slaves were quessionedconcerning theoc' caoon; .but they were as ignorant of it as those that asked — ^ Maria herself could only unravel the dreadful Mvflery, and (he yet gave no Signs of ever being capable. The Terror Ihe had been in through the rough ufagetwr quois had given her — the extreme Hurry of Spirits — the unusual Emotion of her Body, and the Horror the latter Part of that Adventure hadoccassoned, so Seized upon her Vitals, that none was ever more near Death without dying. Her Youth however, and the good nefs of her Conssitution at length Surmounted the rude Shock ste had Sussained; She opened her Eyes, but could Say nothing for along time hxm'turquois. It was to no purpose, that her Father, Mother, all prdent endeavoured to get an Explanation; the young Indian Name again repeated was all (he had the Power to Speak. A Physician was immediately Sent for, who gave it as his Opinion,, that her Disorder' ' merely on her Spirits, and therefore she muss have had Some very great Fright. .This thetw'o Slaves confirmed the truth of, by relating in what manner she came to them. Silence and Repose being judged moss proper to recover her, everybody but her Mother, who would needs watch by her, quitted the (Chamber, and her Father with some others of the Family went into the courtyard talking of this ill Accident, and expressing their Impatience to know the Truth of it.
As they w'ereinthi$d)fcourfe, they Saw a great Crowd of Peoplecoming that way — who as they drew more near, peredved they had a dead Body. laid
xjnforttinatc Toun  ict
laid on Some Planks — on looking farther they Sound it was poor That unhappy Maid
having been Seen by Some People on the other vsideof the River commit this Adi of defpera‘ tion on herself, several had Compafhon enough to jump in with a View of preserving her; but their Care in that Point being vain, they had however taken her up, and were now carrying her to her Parents Honfe. The tacherof expressing Sune Wonder, anddessreof knowing what Motive could have induced her to Such a Deed, oncof those Men who helped to carry her, laid; Nay zue knovj nothing bf 'that, but it may bt your D alight si' may' be
able to infirm you fimethiug of the Matter", ■v/e fiiw them together jufi before, and they seemed as if they. were firuggling with one another, whether in Jeflor Esrneji / cad. t pretend to say.
. My Daughter! cry’d he, you muji be mistaken, I don't know that fne was acquainted zuith her. He tells you Truth, Hid another of the
Fellows, we all saw her -- jjje was drefl in
Blue, add after they parted sue ran up towards the Field Dike. That was the Grounds where (he Ghevalier and the other Slave had been ut ■ Work.
■1 The Father of Maria was very much for prized at this Account, which agreeing To well with the Colour of his daughter’s Clothes that Day, and the Place from which ssie had been brchight by his Servants; assured him there muss be i()mething in it; but though he was not able TO form any Guess what should have brought ’ them together, much less the Occassoiiof their struggling, he judged there muss have happened F 3 Some
102 M E M O I R S
something very extraordinary, and which hfi wasuneasy till he was acquainted with.
The Chevalier James., who ssood by and
heard all this, was much less in the Dark -- -
He doubted not but they had quarrelled, and feared the unhappy Motive had been himself This threw him into fresh Perplexities, and tho’ in examining into all the Particulars of his Behaviour to them both, he could find nothing to condemn, yet could henot reflection So Sad an Accident, of which he had been the innocent Occasion, without the most poinant Grief and bitterness of Heart.
The Mother of Maria., when informed by her Husband of the dreadful End of Tfurquois., and. what was Said concerning her Daughter, was *11 impatient to know the Certainty from her own Month; but as she was then asleep, the Tenderness Iste had for her, made her willing to postpone the Gratification of her Curlofity.
Maria Soon awoke, but in a high Fever, and too delirious to give any answers that might be depended on to the Questions put to her; what (lie Said Serving only to make them know there was Something in her late Adventure which they could not comprehend. She often in her Ravings called out for James., asked where he was, and two or three times Said (lie fupposed he was gone to Turquois. This was indeed a Sufficient Reason to make them think that Slave was someway or other concerned in the Mystery; but which way to make him unravel it they were at a lost: To menace him in order to oblige him to Speak, they doubted would be in vain, and might only put
him
   IG3
him on disgniiingythe Truth; after many Expedients which ail yeem’d impradlicabl'e or uta certain, they at last hit on one which proved elsedlual.
. As Maria was continually repeating his Name, it Seemed highly probable (lie had Something to Say to him of moment: He was therefore, without her being ever mentioned to him, ordered to carry Some Billets into her Chamber, and place them in a particular Part where (he could not avoid feeing him as (lie lay in Bed; the Curtains on that stde being lest open on purpose. The Father and Mother when they heard him coming, concealed themselves in a closet, where they could easily hear everything that pasted, and had contrived before to Send all the Servants out of the way, that what Conversation (liould happen between their Daughter and th^lave might not be interrupted.
This Stratagem Succeeded to their Wish: : had no lest impatience to Speak to Maria than he had discover’d to have Some dis courfe with him; and feeing there was no •body in the Room, ventured to draw near to the bed fide, and in a low Voice, madarn.^{di\^ he, for aeaven*s sake inforr/i me the occafi(/f$ .of your late Fright., and vehat happen’d between you and the unfortunate Turquois. All your Care is still for her., cry’d (he fiercely, no’ psatter what becomes of the undone Maria. Ah Madam., say pot so., reply’dhe, I call He a •ven to witness / all the refpesi for you which I aught to have., and ’tis that Refpetl as wiuch as the Pity I have for her unhappy Sat..
4, that
fJ04
that makes me impatient to know the Source of so fatal an Accident. O’ the ungrateful crea ture., cry’d she with vehemence, can you deny
that you yourself is the Source was it not
■ her Love and yealoufy of you that made her at tempt my Life, which failing', in Rage and de fpair made her dejiroy her own? As the Chevalier was wholly ignorant of what had pass between them, he express the utmost Surprise at hearing she had been in any danger from the Fury of the young Indian on which Maria gave him the full Account of every Particular, Goncloding with many Reproaches forhis Fallhood.' Faljhood, said he I to whom, or in what? I call God to witness I neither nor pretended any Affediion for that unfortunate Maid', but on the contrary did everything in rny Fovjer to discourage that Inclination Jhe seemed to have for me. -- No, Madam, continued
he very gravely, I never yet knew what '■it was to love any Woman; nor is there any 'probability that, while / remain in the condi riion of a Slave, ijhould have leisure to enter tain any such gay Fancies.' Maria figh’d and made no reply to these Words; and he went on, My Thoughts, added he, are all taken up with doing my Duty as far as I am able to those to whom I belong; and when the Time pall happily arrive to refiore me to liberty, / fjall 'have Avocations of a different nature than ■love to engross my Attention. Tou speak, said ihe, as if Love was a voluntary pajfion\ but dt may be you’ll be convinced to the contrary sometime or there When I am it will be Fme enough go think of it, answer’d he. With
ihese

these Words he turn’d away and began replace the Billets as he iiad been order’d; but fliecalled him hassily two or three times, which xib uging him to go towards the Bed again. graiefuf fluptd.tkfefifibls Man I cry’d (lie, vail
you not tell me? -- -- idaat.^ Madam, demanded
he? Nf)', — nothing, ■ — ’//r nq matter rc ply’d (he, with a Voice that Showed (lie was in an extreme Agitation. Tiet yon might Ky methmks, continu’d fly after a pause which Some Sighs had, occalion’d, yon might say yon did not hate me, or that you were sorry for me, even thd it were not true. 1 have no need of Diffimzilation, answer’d he, in this Caje; for nothing can be more real than my Concern for your Disorder, and I am Jo far from hattngyou that 1 would do anything in my power to prove the refpeti and value I have for your good Qua --
lities’, -- as for anything farther, you already
know my Sentiments, and I need mt repeat them. He Said no more but turned away a Second time, nor would hr Pride permit her now to call him back How long she would have remain’d in that Mind is uncertain; fur her Parents having now discovered the whole of everything they had ddired to know, thought the Conversation had laded long enough, and came by another way from their Concealment into the Chamber. The Chevalier was glad of their .Presence to put an end to any.further Talk beuween him and their .Daughter, and after he had done the Bufiaefs he came there upon, went out of the Room.; little fufpeifiing they were so well acquainted, ivitb his and her Sentiments. Neither did they F y take
TO 6 •memoirs of a n
tale the least Notice to Maria of what they had heard, fearing it would iacreafe her ma j.idy.
They were however extremely troubled at finding her Heart had thus engag’d itself, but had n riling for which they could blame the Slave : It was easy for them to perceive he had done nothing to contribute toward the Inclination fly had for him, and could not help confelsing that they were under an Obligation to him for not making all the Advantages he anight have done of it. Had she been in love with an ordinary Slave, or one whose Soul had been as abjedb as his Circumstances, would he not have privately married a young Girl, who w’as the Heiress of Wealth Sufficient to have tempted a aan far above the Condition of a Slave; or had not the ob]e6l of her af fedions had a Share of Discretion and sense of Honour rarely to be found at his Years, would not the Virtue of So amiable a Maid been in very great danger. The Mother of Maria trembling at the escape (lie had had, expatiated largely qn it to her Husband, and gave the highest Encomiums on the Prudence and Temperance of the Chevalier Jiswer; her Husband in Spite of his natural Roughness was fenlible of the Truth of what Oie said, and join’d with her in his Commendations. They then began to constder by what means they should put a Hop to this unlucky Passion, and both agreeing that in order to restore the Tranquillity of their Daughter it was necessary this dangerous Slave Should be removed; the good Woman proposed giving him his
Freedom
xjnfortunate totj^^s^afjlman. 107
Freedom and permitting him to return to his native Country, which would not only ef sedlually ease them of all Apprehensions on his Score, but also be; a just Recompense to him for the Honour and Integrity of his Behaviour in an Occasion which appear’d to them So full of Temptation. The Husband seem’d to approve of what (lie Said, and promised to send him away by the first Ship that failed fop Furore.
The Chevalier in the mean time was ruminating on the Capriciousness of his Destiny, which ordered it so that whether he was lov’d or hated, each alike contributed to render him unhappy. — c_not all the Severity he had endured either from the Cruelty of Drtimon., or his present Master, had given him more real Pain than the desperate Pastion of lurquois^ and the Apprehensions he had for the Fondness ■ Maria.. The Extravagance of these young Womens Behaviour made him reflect more deeply than he had ever done before on that Passion which had influenced it, and the dreadful End of the Lady and her Lover, which he had been witness of at Chejlery now coming fresh into his Mind, he concluded that there was nothing a Heart ought so much to guard itself against, as Sentiments which were' liable to produce Such pernicious confe quences.
He had not that Day been sent into the Field as usual, under the Pretence of their having something to employ him in at, home, because of having an Opportunity to send him‘ into Man ah Chamber for thcreafoiis already
related s;
ic
related; and it being a kind of Holiday to him, for he found nothing there was to do, he was sat in the Corner of a Hall or Parlour buried in a profound Meditation, when his missress came into the Room, and event close to him without his feeing her.
This Woman out of the Overflowings of her Gratitude thought she ought not to keep the honest Slave one Moment in ignorance of his good Fortune, andgiving him a little pluck by the Arm, ‘james., Said (lie, you would not sit in that disconsolate Pojiure if you knew what ■was going to be done for you.
The Astonifhment he was in at this Salutation took from him the Power of making any reply to it or asking' what fly meant, all he could do was to rise and bow tho’ with a great
deal of Confusion- -- -- -- see you are surprised,
. Said stie, hit I won’t keep you in fiif pence two Minutes., only tell me what is the iking you mojl wish for in the World? St hat is A Quejiion, Madam, eafiiy to be ref oh ed, an fwer’d he, whoever is m the Situation of a Slave must certainly hcvve the Hour of Freedom mofi at Heart. And /, (f all who ever had that Name, have perhaps, added he with a Sigh, the firongefl Motives to desire and ian gulp for the arrival of it. Languish then no more, refum’d (he with a Smile, the Hour you thought form Tears distant from you is at handi, -*- — -- it is not impnd.ibie but even tomorrow may produce it. - i
As the Chevalier had experienced this wo naan^s good nature in many Instances, he tould not fufpe^ ihe would go about to deceive
   109
ceive him j yet was the Intelligence (lie gave him So wonderful, So little to be expected, that, he knew not well how to indulge a Transport which had so little appearance of having any Solid Foundation. What is it
you tell me.. Madam? cry’d he. -- -- By what
Miracle can such an unhoped Event be brought topafsl There needs no Miracle, answer’d Ihe, whatever is wonderful in it youyourfelf alone have
wrought. -- -- Bsk me no further Quejiions; but
be ajfured I do not deceive you when I tell you that you Will not only receive your Freedom in a few Days, but also that you may have the satisfaction of thinking that 'tis to your own Virtue and Discretion you are indebted for it. ■ Myjiery on My fiery., cry’d the Chevalier, how. Madam, can I flatter nayfelf with such a Elope, who have done no more than is the Duty of a Slave? dll Slaves, perhaps, would not have done as you have done, reply’d Ihe; hut I will not fuflfer you to leave us without knowing for what Keafon we are grateful. -. "■ I know w you are prudent enough not to mention what 1 am. going to say, and will therefore inform yon, that your Mafler and myself overheard your Conver* Jation jufl.now with Maria, and as thatjbewed us how well you merit our Esteem, so our con ferring on you what you think mofl valuable, will alpj pew you' We know how to requite an qkugationi : i
^ .The.chevalier now, no lo^igcr. at a loss for what (he meant, nor doubtful of his Happi* nest, was divided between a modess confa lion at the one, and Rapture, at the Other, and throwing hjjnfelf on his Knees and, kissing
her
no Memoirs
her Hands — 0 Madam I ery’d he, you art too good., and if it euer comes in my Power I will return this Boun^ with somewhat more than Prayers and blejjwgs. Thank your ma return’d fhc; but make no mention of the Discourse we have had., till he fljall inform you of this Alteration in your Fortune.
With these Words die went out of the Room, leaving the Chevalier in Such an ex tasy of Joy as cannot be well express’d. That heavy sadness which had been of Years Duration, and by long Habitude seem’d to be a part of his Nature, one Moment dissipated. The Pleasure of his Heart gave double Lustre to his .Eyes, and sprightliness to every Feature. Had Klaria now Seen him, (he would have adored instead of loving him; and the Gaity which now reign’d through his whole Frame might possibly have made him less indifferent to her Charms; but the careful Parents took care he never more ssiould come into her Sight while he remain’d with them; neither did he in the least desire it, v/issiing from his Soul ssie might overcome a Passion so unhappy for herself, tho’ it had proved so beneficial to him.
No Opportunity for his going offering immediately, he staid in the House, and was used wn'th kindness enough, especially by his mi strefs, who look’d on him as a Prodigy of
Temperance -- -- but every Day seem’d tedious
to him, till he got ou board, and on his way toward Europe. His Imagination painted oat to him theconfusson his wicked Uncle would be in at his Return, and the Pleasure he ssiould take m forgivingj after ref roache4 him
for
ijttfort'unate Toun  11 r
for the Injuries he had done him -- -- -- -- the Sa
tisfa<5i: ion he expected his Return would afford to his Parents aster So long an Absence— — — lastly, the Methods he vpould take for improving himself, and retrieving as much as possible the time he had lost. With these pleastng Vilions did he beguile Impatience, till his Master told him he was going the next day to Dover., a great Seaport Town in the County of Kent., that he Should take him along with him. Tho’ he had never heard from his own Mouth that he intended to put a Period to his Slavery, yet did he not in the least doubt it, as his Mistress had assured him of it; and Siippostng, with good Realbn, that the Time was now arrived, past that Night, which he imagin’d was the last of his Bondage, with the most pleasing Ideas. In the Morning he went to pay his Respects to his Mistress, who confirm’d his Hopes, by telling him that her hus band had heard of a Ship, and had agreed for his Passlige; but. Said she, he will not ssiy anything to you of his Dessgns, till you are out of Newcajile., because he would excite no Muttering among the other Slaves. This was too plausible to be suspected, and the Chevalier look’d already on himself as a Freed man. He ask’d if he might be permitted to take Leave f Marla, who he heard was feme what recover’d of her Indifposttion; but her Mother thought it would be improper, and he forbore to press it.
With a cheerful Heart did he attend his Master from Newcajile, Suppoling every Step brought him nearer to the Place where he
stlquld
IT 2 Memoirs
would receive his Liberty; but his Example may be a Warning to every one not to build too much on promises, or think themstlves Secure of anything, till they have it in pofses fion, lest falling at once, as he did, from their high raifed Expectations, they become more miserable than ever, by So much the more as they flatter’d themselves with being happy.
The avaritious Proprietor of our Noble Slave had either never any real Intentions, or Soon chang’d them, of relinquishing his Right over him, without an adequate Confideratioii.
He thought it highly proper indeed he Ihoiild ' be removed from Maria but was far from being of his wife’s Opinion, that his Conduct on her Account deserved So great a recom fence as the Value of near five Years Service; therefore had all this time, instead of inquiring for a Ship, as he pretended to his Wife, been laying oat for a Masser to whom he might resell him; and having, by Letter, agreed on the Price with one at Chichejier.^ he took the Trouble of conducing him himself, not caring to trust him with any of his other slavesj for fear they (houid Speak of it at their Return, and he should not only have the Reproaches of his Wife for having deceived her, but also Uiat Maria knowing where he was, might be tempted by her Paliion, which he found was extreme, to carry on a Correspondence with him, or it may be even run to him. ashehm not any Notion the Slave had been made acquainted with what he had pretended to his Wife, he had nothing to apprehend either from
.. • his
 g Hohleman. ii..
his Reproaches or despair, when henionld find himself assigned over to a new Masser.
but how did the chevalier’s Heart exult at light of d(?z^^rport, and the Shipping he Saw there! and what was his Surprise, when he found his Masser pass not only thro’ that Town but the whole County without slopping I Tho’ the Awe in which the Slaves in America are kept, prevents them from Scarce ever Speaking to their Massers, except to answer any Question ask’d them or deliver a Message, yet could not the Chevalier restrain his Impatience So far as not to remind his Master, that he had thought the Place they just now quitted was intended to be the Extent of their Journey. What Concern is that of yours “I replied the other Surlily, your Bnfrnefs is Obedience. This lilenccd any further Inquiry, but raised Some troubled Emotions in the Breast of the Chevalier, which utterly took away all his late Vivacity.
They travelled on till they came into the County of Stijfex^ and stop’d at a house about Seven Miles short of the City of Chichefler. The Chevalier, whose Perplexity increased, follow’d his Masser into the Houfep where having waited Some time in an outer Room, he was call’d, and learned the Certainty of his Tate, by being transferred, with all the Forms used on Such Occasions, to the Person who own’d the house and Plantation they were now in.
Let any one now for a moment imagine tbernselves in the chevalier’s Place, thus cruelly deceived, thus raised to Hopes of p'reedom
only
11'4 M E M o I R s ^ n; /
only to make Slavery more insupportab’e, and then, and only then, they may be able to coii xeive what it was he felt at a Disappointment So fnocking. He look’d on his old and new Mahers alternately with Such Fury in his Eyes, as threatened Vengeance on the one, and denoted little Willingness to pay Obedience to the other. Is this., cry’d he to the former, the Rffedl of all the Promises were made me?
-- -- Is it thus yott reward the Fidelity you
fraifed? — Freacherous ungrateful Man 1 continued he, railing his Voice, you have made
.over nhe Right you had to me -- -- 1 am now no
more your Slave., and may take that satisfaaion on you that my Injuries demand. With these Words he flew at him, and Seized him with So ssrong a Gripe, as had they not been Separated by him who was now entitled to command him, the Eather of Maria might not perhaps have ever been able to return to new cajile.
He was after this forced out of the Room, but the person who had bought him imagining by this Behaviour (as he was ignorant of the Provocation) that he was of a turbulent dispofi lion, was little pleased with his Bargain: But the other finding by what he said, that either his Wife or Some one fly had told it to, had flatter’d him xvith the Hope of Freedom, made him more fatisfy’d, by, assuring him that the slave^rttts ordinarily tradable enough, but had been inflam’d with idle Stories; and then related to him, how for a small Service he had done, he had promised his Wife to fet him at Liberty. — — This, I fufpofey continued he, fhff
'has
 g Mohleman. 11 g
has been so fooujh as to tell Dw, and the difap f ointment makes him mad.
The Chevalier saw him no more while he tarried at Chichefler^ Care being taken to keep him out of the way of a person So jussly incensed. Abating this new Addition to his Vexation, he had now a milder Servitude than any he had known Slice his Slavery. His present maser being of a more human Nature than either Drumon or the Father of Maria; and when he came to hear his Story, tesifym an extreme compalsion for him, and used him in So kind a manner, that the whole Family gave him the Title of the Favourite. Blit what Served moss to alleviate his Melancholy, .was being allow’d two or three Hours in every day to read, and Books lent him by his Master for that porpose. As he was a Man of more Teaming than most of his Calling, he had a Collection of very good Authors both Latise and English., but the Chevalier had not the jhappinefs of understanding anything of the former, So was obliged to content himself with the latter, or with Some Translations; but by this means made himself very much Master of the Particulars of those transadions which he 'stad learned in the general, through the Care and good nature of that old Slave before mentioned, at his first master’s.
His Provision here was also much better than what he had been formerly allow’d, and his Tasks of Work so easy, that Scarce could what he did be call’d a Slavery, and he went through it more as an Exercise for Health and Pleasure, than a Labour oi Necejftty and Corn ^ puljion. ’tis
ii Memoirs
His certain indeed, that since he was to remain a Slave for the Time prescrib’d by the jvlaginrates on his last attempting to escape, he had great reason to be satisfy’d with this Change of Mailers; and So much did the good nature of this win upon him, that in upwards of three Years not all his Impatience of returning to Europe had made him entertain one Thought of quitting him till the Expira,, of his Time, tho’ Some Efforts had been made to persuade him to it by one who afrer tvards ran away and never was taken. Pof sbly could he Have foreseen w’hat was to ensue, lie would have taken his Advice, for his kind Mailer Ihortly died, and the Ferfon who Succeeded him not being a Lover of Bohnefs; Sold great Part of the Plantation and Several of the Slaves, among whom was the Chevalier. ^
By a whimsical Turn of Fortune he fell to the Lot of a Person in newcajue County, within a Mile of the Town of that Name, and almost in Sight of that very House where he had sufferedto many Troubles on the Score of his rival Mistresses, and been so ungratefully rewarded by the father of one of thcim. As they were conducting him to his new Home, he happen’d also to pafs by the lide of •that River where poor Turqmis had put a Period to her Life, and the Remembrance of that unhappy Adventure,, ioin’d to other refiedu dns, render’d him exceeding melancholy. — — 0! Said he to himself / I am novj going to say dearly for the tranquillity I enjoya at Chichester: crues Fate not content vjkb
[ubjediing me to Slaveryy and. exposing me to
Sale'
   117
Sale like the Beasts of the Field to the hejl Bidder., is continually tojfing me from Place to Place, only to make'me taste Variety of woesy ‘ — elfe why am I deflin’d to return to one, the Memory of which is irksome to me, and where I Can see nothing but what will add to ray present Miseries by rerninding me of the past.
with.these and Such like interior Expoflu, <4atiohs did he arrive at his new masser’s, who iifed him tho’ with less kindness than his last, yet with more gcntleuess than his two Sormer ones; and tho’his Life could not be Said to he easy, yet it was Supportable., Having a little Curiolicy to hear what was become of Maria., he was inform’d by those he ask’d concerning her, that fly had had a Child by one of her father’s Slaves, and by the Law's of that Country was afterwards obliged to marry him; that they were gone to live in a distant part of the County, where her Father had bought them a small Plantation; and that stnce this Misfortune had happen’d in their Family, he was grown So pecvdli and’quarrelsome, that no body would keep him Company. The Chevalier was too generous not to be Sorry for Maria's ill Conduff; but his Concern was very much alleviated by the Contentment it gave him, that a person who had Vised him So ill as her Father had done, hadaub Some Share of that Anxiety he So little knew hmv to pity in others.
- He now also found that the Story of xur quois, the Love (he had for him, her jealousy t)f Maria, and the Motives of her unhappy End, were now known to the whole County,
and
118 M E M O I R S
and was warned by Some of the Slaves to beware of her two Brothers, who they told him had vow’d his Destruffion. As he was not unacquainted with the revengeful disposstion of those People, he slighted not the Advice given him on this Score, and avoided as much as he could being alone in any unfrequented Place.
All his Care, however, had been in vain, .' and he must inevitably have fallen an innocent Sacrifice to the Manes of that imuan Maid, if Providence had not inierpofed in his Defence.
After having lain in wait for many Months, as they afterwards confcss’d, without finding any Opportunity to execute their cruel pur pofe, they had almost given it over when Chance presented what they had vainly flaught. The Chevalier happening on Some (Occasion to stay behind his fellow flaves one Morning, and knowing the bufiness he had to do that Day required Expedition, to make the greater Haste to overtake them ran through a Forest, which was a Ihorter Cut to the Field where they work’d than the Way they usually went. Here was he met by the two Iroquois, ^ who both at once fell upon him: Hedetended himself as well as he could against their united Force, and neither of them being arm’d any more than himselfj and he having his Back a gainst a Tree, they struggled for a considerable, time without being able to get him down. One of them at last bethinking himself of a Knife he had in his Pocket, pluck’d it hastily out, and aim’d to stab the Chevalier with it in the
Belly,
   119
Belly, but he had the Dexterity to wreath his Body So, that he broke the S’;, rce of the Blow, receiving only a slight Wound on the Hip, but could not do this without giving his other an tagonift So much Advantage as to get his Leg between his, and by that Means threw him; and him who had struck at him at the Same time catching up his Kstfe again, was going to cut his Throat while the other kneel’d upon his Breast and kept him down.
Just in that Point of Time arrived Some Persons, who being in Search of a fugitive Slave, Supposed to have conceal’d himself in that Forest, had Seen this unequal Combat at a Distance, and before the fatal Knife could do its Work, seiz’d on the Hand that held it, and t drag’d the Affassins off One Instant produced both the Danger and Relief — not less Swift than Lightning and equally amazing to the Attackers and Attacked, each being too much taken up to perceive the Interruption till they felt it.
These People belonging to a neighbouring Plantation, knew both the Chevalier and thole who Set upon him, and fume of them stip ported him, being weak with llrugg'ing and the loss of Blood which issued in great Abundance from his Wound; and others lorced the distp. pointed Iroquois along with them before a Justice, where the chevalier’s Master being lent for, and the Indians Attempt plainly proved, it was decreed that as the Wound they had given was not dangerous, they (lionid only pay a Surgeon for the Cure, and his Master for the Time it was Supposed it would take up, and
that
ICO memgfrs
that the Father of these two desperado’s with another Mail of Credit should be bound in alarge Penalty for their civil Behaviour for the future. All this being done, ended an Adventure which had like to have brought these Memoirs into a very narrow compass.
Tho’ there was nothing dangerous in the Hurt the Chevalier had received, yet he had loss a good deal of Blood and was very much bruised, which kept him weak and unable to do any Work for more than two Months. — Neither the Surgeon nor Masser much hasten’d his Recovery, the one being well paid for his Attendance, and the other for his Time.
During this Cessation of bodily Labour the active Mind of our illustrious Slave was not idle — not the minutest Accident of his unfortunate Life but came fresti into his Memory; among the rest, that (ignistcant Dream I made So copious a relation of was strong in his Head, and as he had ever look’d upon it us a kind of Prognostic of his future Pate, he could no help thinking that tho’ his Slavery was near expired, there wanting not a Year of the Time, which whatever he endured he resolved to do ik)thing to prolong, yet he doubted not but after that he (hold find his Difficulties and Dangers; and tho’ he could not form any Guest of what Nature they would be, yet it was reasonable to suppose an Uncle who had done So much to remove him, would not give, over his Endeavours either, to take away his Life, or render the remainder as wretched as : the past. Sometimes again he flatter’d himself with more plealiug Imaginations, he represented
this
Vnfortunate Tmn  121
this cruel Uncle as repenting of what he had done, receiving the News of his safe Return with Transport, coiifeffing the Faults he had been guilty of, and conducting him to a Father who would endeavour by all possible Ads of tenderness to make him lose the Memory of what he had fuffer’d. His Mother was much less in his Thoughts, bccause at parting from her he was too young to retain the least Remembrance of her; yet having heard she was extremely beautiful, he would Sometimes picture out a fine graceful Lady hanging over a long loss Son, and melting into Tears of
maternal Joy and fondness -- -- the Welcomes
of Tenants, Dependents, Servants, blended with the gay Show of Equipage and the Pomp of Title?, would now and then force their
Way into his youthful Fancy -- -- but all these
pleaiing Ideas were transsent — no Sooner
form’d than vanissi’d -- and his Apprehenssons'
of the worjl that could befall him took place of the too hort liv’d bejl.
Hope is indeed a charming Passion, the only real Friend of human Thought — it beguiles the present Misery, robs Misfortune of its Force, and makes the Breast that harbours it happy and serene amidst a Sea of Cares; and if at last found to be delulive, nothing at least is lost by it, but so much L ime from Woei Had the Chevalier indulged it more, the Hurt he would have fussaih’d by the Disappointment would not have been adequate to the satit faction while it lasted.
It was doubtless a good deal owing to the.va; > lious Agitations of his Mind that cong
tinued
122 Mh Mo t of etft
'tinued So long Seeble, and to an Slccident, which when he was grown a little better, might well retard his Recovery; for tho’ it related not immediately to himself, the Generosity and Integrity of his Nature made him take part in it, and involved him in fresh Difficulties and Dangers.
Having not been out of Doors in So long a Time, and the Weather extremely hot, he fancy’d the fresh Air would revive him, and one Sunday Evening, taking with him plu tarch\ Lives, which his kind Master at Chi chejier.^ knowing how much he delighted in linoks, had made him a present of, he went into a Field adjacent to the house, and sat down by the Side of a Hedge under the Shadow ofsome tall Trees, to which this Division of certain Grounds belonging to two different Persons was join’d. He had not read many Pages before his Weakness making him a little droufy, he recliffd his Head upon his Arm and fell into a Slumber, in which he continued till the Sun had entirely withdrawn his Beams; on perceiving it was dark when he awoke, he was about to rise and go home, when the Sound of Voices very near him gave him a kind of Gurioflty of knowing on what they were dis courssng, especially as he thought the one was that of his master’s Wise, and the other of one stephanof a Slave belonging to the next Plantation. The first Words he distinguifh’d were Spoken by his Mistress, and to this Effect: Are you furey Said file, the Majier of the Bark won't betray us? No, o, reply’d he, / know Km well enough ^ he will do anything for In
terefi
vnfortmnate Toun  1
terejl — if we hut get the Money we are secure enough of everything elfe; hut tf we wait tilf the Sum your Husband now has in the Honfe: is laid out., as we did once before., we Shall find a Friend nowhere. ivelf refum’d she, you Shall have no more occasion to upbraid me on that
Score -- -- you know I have it all in my Pojfef
fion, and will take care to leave none of it behind me., nor nothing elfe that I can carry that
is of any value. -- -- But then, added she, if
the Wind jjjould turn and we he detained in the Harbour., what would become of us! Tou ere always raising Difficulties, Said he, the Wind cannot turn so but we may get off into forns, other Port', and if there he any Danger of our Bark being fearcfcl, give the Captain a Piece ef Money and we friall have his Boat to put us on hoard same other Vessel, or at the worjlwe may row over to the Iroquois, i have done vjith my ohjesiions, aiifwer’d (he, but if after I do this you floouldprove false, 'tvjould break my Heart. Tou ought not to doubt my Love, ansvver’d he, Jince I run as great a Ktfque as yous and would not venture for anything, hut to have the pof feffion of you entirely to myself. In speaking this he endeavour’d to enforce her Bslief by other Proofs of Tenderness, and (lie seem’d so well convinced by them, that flic: made no farther Hesitation, and it was agreed between them that (he should make her Estape that Night, the Wind then being favourable, and blowing a. strong Gale, the Bark he told her was ready to sail, the Captain apprised of their coming, and ready to put off the Moment they came on board.
G 2 The
^f24 Memoirs of Wd
The Chevalier was struck with the utmost Horror at this discovery, : He had heard that the Woman who thus wrong’d and treache rousty conspir’d to rob her Husband, after having forfeited her Reputation in the Country where fly was born, had come over there in hope of making her Fortune, and had done it cstedually by marrying one of the richest Planters in the whole County, who doted on her With an Extravagance of fondness: He had also been an eye witnefs that she seem’d on her part to outvy him in all the Proofs he gave of a more than a conjugal Affection; and. now to find all was .Distimulation and Artifice, and that not content wn’th injuring him in her Person, (lie also listen’d to the In. finuatioiis of the Villain who had Seduced her, So far as to quit forever So good a Plusband, and to deprive him of all his Substance in her Power, was Something So shocking to the honest Soul of him to whom it was thus accidentally reveal’d, that he knew not presently what course he ought to take to prevent So mon • strugus a Design being perpetrated; — At first he thought of running to his Master and ac -- quainting him with all he had heard; but then he conlider’d, that they would doubtless deny everything, chat the blind Love his Master had for his unfaithful (Wife would, induce him, i to belicye her .as innocent as fire pretended, > .and in that Gale he fnould be deemm an Incendiary and accordingly punifli’d. Yet could he not resolve to fust'cr this Robbery to be committed, the Thoughts of knowing and not preventing the Viilany, feem’d in his Opinion
 img Nobkman. 125
iiion to make him accessary to it, and all the time the guilty Pair wtre employ’d in their Endearments, was he debating within himsels in what manner he ssiould proceed.
At length they Separated, the Slaveto prepare what yet remain’d ncceffxry to Secure their Flight, and Ihe to return to her Flusband in order by Some new Deception to hinder his Surprise at her lying abroad that Night. As the Chevalier Saw her pass along, a Sudden Thought came into his Head, which seem’d to him a happy Expedient; without staying to deliberate he ran hastily aster her, and hesup posing it was her Lover, who might possibly; have forgot Something he had to say, turn’d iback, and it being not light enough to discern any Objects farther than in the Gross, Ihe could not be undeceived, and cry’d, What ■ mvjy my dear Stephano! ’t/’r not Stephano, aiadarny2a\i'fizfdi the Chevalier, one luhoper haps has more realgoodwijhes toward you than even that favourite Slave. thetoneofhisvoice now convincing her fhc had been mistaken, pat her into a terribleconfufion j but not imagining he was So well acquainted with what had past, thought to take away any Sulpichm he might have, on meeting her alone in the Dark, by affecting an Air of Unconcern. What is It you James, Slid fly, this is not the way sir you to get well again to be out in the
Might nir^ -- -- -- where have you been., pray
Where I have heard what very much ajionipes me., reply’d he, yet what I hope my Knowledge of may be a means of preventing and you here after haver eafon to thank Providence sir making G 3 mer
126 m~emoik% of an
me the foie Witness of what it will he your own Fault if I make any use of to your D if advantage. What is ityoumean'^. cry’d (he — are mad
fare -- -- go home prithee., and go tojleep. Not,
Madafn, Said he, till I have convinced you I am more desirous of your Happmefs than you are yourself. But not ts keep you in Stifpence, know, that Chance has made me Majier of
your dearest Secret -- 1 have heard all the Conversation
between you and Stephano, therefore Can be no Stranger to the Design this Night was to have been put in Execution', but I beseech ymi. Madam.) AO confider what you are about i fi Should conceal the Matter from my Majier, which neither‘fujiice nor C onfcience will permit me to do if you perfijiin it, and you jljould even be able to avoid the Pursuit will be made after you when once you are mifdd, which there is also little Probability of, how will it. gall your Soul hereafter to rejiedi what a happysituatdosyyou have qmued, what a Husband you have wrongfd for the sake of a, perhaps, ungrateful Slave", jbr it is my Opinion, that the Man that is unjust can never be generous, or have one good Quality worthy a woman'*s Love,
'“The Agitations this Woman was in ail the time he was Speaking were so violent, that they were very near throwing her intoa Swoon
-- -- She Supported herfels as well as (he could
by leaning on Some Timber which had been the day before Cut down and was piled up, but was not able to make any answer for Some time, and thechevaiier had all the Opportunity he could desire to make her Sensible both of the Danger and Shame of the Grime (he' wa
going
 tin  127
going to commit. At lass, Say no more Jamer, for Heaven's fake., cry’d ssie, burssing into Tears,
I now see and tremble at the dreadful Precis pice on which I food this moment., and will turn
my Back upon it for ever -- If you will he so
good to keep the Knowledge of my Fault a Secreti will [wear to you by everything that is facredy never to repeat ity a?td will also make ym all the Gratification in my Power.
01 Madamy rcply’d the Chevalier, if you preserve inviolate the firji part of your Promije, it will entirely acquit you of the lajl; and I Shall think myself highly recompensed in feeing you continue in a Condition which depends wholly on yourfeif to make happy. As for my Secrecy be assured my Tongue, shall never give the Jeafl Utterance to what my Ears have heard.
Whether it was this generous Behaviour that had the Essed upon her, or whether Ihe was before inspired with Some Secret liking of his Person is uncertain; bnt she immediately began to give him Tessimonies that Stephans had not engrossed her whole Heart. Since, Said she, you are Jo well acquainted with rny Faulty let us sit down a while and I will relate to you the Means by which I was drawn into
it -- -- -- Perhaps, continued Oie, leaning her
Hand upon his Arm, will find more to pity than condemn me for.
With these Words fly in a manner compelled him to lit on Some Planks which lay scatter’d off the Pile, and having placed herseif very close to him, she told him, That being one day alone, Stephana came in on Some bu shiess from his Masser, and having this Op g 4. portunity
128
portunity forced her to his Will, and that ste afterwards fearing to lose the Affc6hons of her Husband if he should know what (lie had liister’d, tho’ against her Inclination, (he had ever (ince been obliged to yield herself to him, less her refusal (hold provoke him to divulge ■ss : And that the Same Apprehenssons had made her also consent togo withliim, behaving, (he laid, often threatened to expofeher if fie would not quit Penjilvania; which, weary of his Slavery, he was resolved to run all Hazards to get out of himself.
The Chevalier, in Spite of his little Knowledge of the World, had too'much Penetration to give Credit to this Story: The expres sons (he made use of in Some Moments to Stephano, were more convincing to hiin that (he was neither displeased with the Rape nor the Ravilher, than anything (he could say to the contrary; but he forbore letting her know w his Sentiments on that Occasson, thinking it bess she (hold imagine herself believ’d; and told her, that in his Opinion it would be little regarded what a Slave should (ay of her ori that Score, and earnessly exhorted her never to be prevail’d upon to think of wronging her Husband any more in the manner (lie had intended. This (lie promised with many Asse yerations, and concluded with saying, I kovj see the Baseness of depriving him of any part of his Subjiance.^ and if ever I Jljordd be tempted, to a Thought of wronging him in his Bed it •wozild not Stephaiio I should make choice of,
These lass Words pronounced with the moss tender Air, and accompanied with a kind L of
xj?ifortu7iate Toun  129'.
of languifliiiig Loll upon the Shoulder of the Chevalier, made him Sensible flic was far from being a real Convert to Virtue, whatever dil guil (lie might have for her late Project, or the person who was to have been her Partner in, it. Unwilling hovvever that fly should explain herself more fully, he asked in what manner fly would behave to that Slave, who ’twas like would grow desperate on his Disappointment? On which she told him, that, if he would carry a Letter from her to him, which he should.. before Sealed, that fly would invent an excuse which fly doubted not but would pass current for the present, and that afterwards The would endeavour to break off with him by degrees. The Chevalier was stir from approving the Method fly proposed, and told her that he would readily be the Bearer of what fly wrote, but thoughl jt more advisable to let him know at once that She repented her pass Gondudl, and would never see him more. But this (he would by ho means be persuaded to, pretending still a Fear of what he might accuse her of; To he gave over enlisting, upon it, but resolved in his Mind to observe her very carefully, and if he found The relapsed into her former Folly, to make no Scruple of revealing all to his Master..
They went home together, fly thinking it. would look most natural to tell her Husband file had met him as she was returning from some i Visits fly had been making. But the littre Way they had to go (lie behaved to him with Such Marks of Kindness, as left him no room to, doubt that it was in his Power .to succeed Gy Stsphdnoy
130
Stefham, without making use of any of that Violence fly had accused him oh But this Discovery instead of flattering his Vanity or inclinations, on the contrary gave him a good deal of Uneasiness: : that he was by Nature cold and insensible of Love had a proper obje(fi presented icfelf; but tho’ this Woman was) oang and extremely handsome, the vile ness he discovered in her destroyed all the ef fedl her Charms might otherwise have had on him; and he befldes foresaw many inconve niencies would arise to him, if Ihe were in reality inclined to favour him as much as her yresent Behaviour denoted.
these Cogitations kept him from steeping much that Night, and in the Morning as Soon as his Master was gone out to look over his Slaves, he was called for and bid to go into his mistrefs’s Chamber, where Ihe Ihcw'ed him a Letter she had just wrote to Stepham^ and bid him read it, which he did, and found it contained these Lines:
S T E P H A N O.
An unexpedled Accident has frustrated our
Deflgns at prefent my Husband heard
of a Bargain, so took the Money out of my Hands Soon aster I came home, in order so
lay it out this Day— — hope my not being
able to acquaint you with it founer, has not occafloned your doing anything that may give any Suspicion of, what we had agreed' upon — — I got a Hurt in my Foot last Night, and
fear
xjnfortiimte Toung Elohleman. 131
fear I (hall not be able to walk So far as our
Reiidezvouz for Some Days. -- -- Farewell- -- -- -- --
this before the Face of the Person that brings it, or I (hail think you do not mean fair to
Tmrs.
It was in vaia that the Chevalier endeavoured to prevail on her either to write in a different Manner, or not at all; (he was obstinate, and found So many exciises, which the above Letter Shows she was not barren in inventing, that he was obliged to let her Seal it as it was, and according to his Promise went and delivered it to Stephana.^ who muttered: Something to himself after he had read it, and then struck Fire and Set a Match to it. When it was consumed, Tell her Said he, vjhat yon have seen me do, ^ thafs all.
She indeed expesled no other answer than this Proof of his Obedience, and told the Chevalier that (he was very well Satisfied with What stie had done, and would engage to find So many Pretences of avoiding him that he would at length grow weary of looking afteri her, and break off of himself; which., said she, it the only way to prevent his blabbing anything of what has paji between ns. He seem’d not to discredit what (he said, and was going out of the Room; but (he called him back, and gave him out of her Closet a Slice of rich Cake and a Glass of Cordial Water; and during the Time he stay’d, which was no longer than Civility required, both looked and talked to him in a fanaioiij.which fully
convinced”
i 3 2 M e m oh r s of Kh "
convinced him ste was So far from being a real Penitent, that Ihe wiihed for nothing more than to repeat her Crinie.
He now found, that instead' of recovering her to Virtue, as he had hoped, by his generous Proceeding, he had only changed the Object of her guilty Flame, and that (he was wholly incapable of remorse, he began to repent he had not acquainted his Master with the dispo lition of a Wife, which, Sooner or later, he feared, would bring both him and herself to destrudion -- -- -- He would also have regretted
his having difeovered the Design (he had plotted against a Husband to whom (lie had such great Obligations, but he thought he stiould ostend Providence by it, who had made him the Instrument of preventing it. His own Mind was however rendered extremely uneasy
by it -- -- Bethought it his Duty to keep a
watchful Eye over his Mistress, in order to hinder her from feeing that Seducer of her Virtue! and at the same time to avoid all occa fions of being alone with her himself; but this last was much the hardest Task: He being always in the House and his Master frequently abroad, (he was continually giving him some new Proofs of her Affection, if the vicious Inclinations (he was polsest of can deserve that, Narne: His only Resource was not to seem to understand her Meaning, ' which (lie indeed Spoke but too plain; his Stupidity, as (he imagined it, vexed her to the Soul, and the disti culties she found in making him more fenssble heightening her Destre to do So, she at length threw oif all Decency, all Show of Modesty,
and
Vnforturiate Toiin^ Nobleman. 13: 3
and told him that she loved him. Alleged in her excnse the Disparity of Years there was
between her and her Husband -- -- -- that having
married him only for Convenience, it vvas nov in her Power to take any Satisfadlion in em braees which Necessity alone had made her yield to receive; and that tho’ she acknowledged all Gratitude was due to iiim, yet that was not a Fashion Sufficiently ssrong to bridle
another to which Youth is incident. -- -- -- In
fine, as she had Wit inferior to few, and Cunning Superior to moult, she made use of Such Arguments to prove, that to gratify an Inclination which it was imposhible to subdue, was at moss but a venial transgreshion, a pardonable Error; that, he has ssnce confess, he vas in Some Moments half ready to acknowledge the Force of them in the Way she wished. But Such a Propenssty was too transsent either to render him Guilty or her Plappy, and was Succeeded by a ssill greater Detessation of her Impudence, which deformed one of the moss: beautiful Faces in the World, and made even her Wit nauseous and oshenlive; whereas, had either been the Ornaments of Modessy and Virtue,, he would almoss have adored them.'
He one Day Spoke So plain to her on those. Heads, that she burst into i’ears, and went out of the Room without making any Answer to what he Said : This he took for a.. good Sign, and was in hope that beginning;., MOW to have'a true Sense of her pass Er.. Sue w’ould amend': Especially as he had seen Stephana vqiy much lurking about the house., and could not'discover that .she even
'attemhed
134
attempted to go out to him; but whether this was owing to her Shame of the Folly she had been guilty of with him, or to her new paf fion for himstlf, he could not be certain. He thought however, that he should not fully discharge that Duty he had So well begun, if he. Suffered that Fellow to be on the watch for an Opportunity, which she in Some unguarded Moment might again permit him to make use of, therefore went out to him and asked him who it was he wanted and what Business he had there? To which the other answering in. a Surly manner, hot Words rose between them,.
and were Soon followed by Blows -- Stc
fhano being robust, and the Chevalier not having yet recovered his former Strength, had much the worst of the Combat; and had not some People pasting that way put an End to ir, just as his Antagonist had got him down, he had doubtless fuffbred much more; He was very much hurt, and obliged again to keep his Bed — His Master hearing of it, imputed the Quarrel only to something between themselves, and little imagined how great a Share his Honour had in it; but his Mistrcfs, who knew it well, came frequently to inquire how he did, esprest the greatest Concern at his Mist fortune, and one Day brought him in a Mess of Soup, which she said she had prepared for. him herself, and would be a great Restorative. Having that Moment taken something, hede stred she would Set it down and he would eaf it Soon; on which she placed it on h Table by his Bedlide, but being called hastily away to Some one that had Buliiiefs with her, he forgot
 u?t  13 5i
got it; and happening to fall asseep, a Cat caine in, and attrased by the Savoury Smell jumped on the Table, nd presently emptied the liasoii that contained this precious Viand
-- -- On his awaking he bethought him of it,.
but presently Saw what had happened by the Cat being ssill there, and licking'up Some Drops which had fallen in Setting it dow - — he would have thought no more on, had not the poor Animal immediately Swelled up to more than twice her usual Size, and aster Foaming at the Mouth, and giving all the Signs of the most terrible Agony, fell down dead in the Room.
What contrary Ideas must now crowd them selves at once into his astonistied Mind; a mingled Gratitude and Admiration for the Divine Being who had So miraculously preserved him from a Danger he had not the least Suspicion of, and the most consummafe Horror at finding a Woman capable of So black a Crime as the Murder of an innocent Ferfon, who So far from having injured had conferred the highest Obligations on her -- The intended mischief and the escape were both obvious?; he Saw the fatal Effect of the one on the poor Cat, and felt the other in being alive himfdf to bless the Goodness that had Saved him— — long time did these Meditations take him up, and had doubilest employed him longer yet, had not one of the Servants coming 'to ask if he wanted anything, interrupted them.
He now began to constder in what rnaniler he fnould behave; He had Sometimes a mind
to
1: 36 Memoirs of ati
to endeavour to rise and Seek his Missrefs, to' reproach her for her Design upon him; but not doubting but she would deny it with an af lurance which he found she never wanted, and fearing that it would be vain to attempt exciting any Remorlein So hardened a Heart, he
judged it better to avoid her Prefence re
hedting afterward, that when she should come to know the di(appointmcnt of her intended Revenge, she might possibly take other Men? fares to accomplish it, both Nature and Religion bad him provide as well as he was able
for his Defence -- His Masser was abroad
on Business, and not expested home that Night, he knew not therefore what fly might attempt when the Family should be in Bed, and he alone, and exposed to all her Fury could inspire her with — He therefore when it grew toward Evening got up, and having fastened his Door with a Bolt which happened to be on if, dragged afterwards whatever he amid find, in the Room and Set againss it for.bis better Security.
His Mind was notwithilanding too much Gonfufed to admit of Sleep to enter his Eyes,, tho’ the house seemed buried in a profound Silence, ’till at once he heard a Sudden Sound of many Voices, all undissinguishable by reason of their being at a Distance, tho’he thought too within the house; but Soon the Noise grew louder and more near, and. he was more astonished than assrighted when he heard his Master cry high above the rest, Drag her Lear her if sloe will not rrio'.e — — He then had Courage to jump out of Bcd, and pluclujng
away
 g Nobkinan. igj
away his Barricadoes unbolted the Door, where the first Object he beheld coming towards hfs Room was his Master, and two or three Slaves bawling his mistrcss half naked down the Stairs. As he was So too, he ran back to wrap Something about him for decency’s Sake; but his Mailer prevented him, and Said, James, Co to bed again., and if you are honejf, reveal at once all you know bf this mofi wicked iv)man -- this Jhamelefs Adulteress, whom
I have this Moment taken in my own Bed with
a Slave -- She accuses you of having betrayed
her to me — yozi therefore are trot ignorant of her Perfidy - — — Speak now the ruth., and / will paryour revealing it no sooner. It would have been as romantic as well as unavailing to have attempted to conceal a Crime the Chevalier now found Ihe was detected in, and therefore without any Hesitation unravelled the whole iniquitous Scene he had discovered between her and Stephana in the Field, the Motives that induced him to hide her Shame, and the Promises fly had made oh his doing To to corrcdl her Conduct for the future, stifling no part of what he knew, excepting that which related to the Pastion Ihe pretended for himself;; concluded With producing the dead Cat, and the Means by which (he had been destroyed.
The Master listen’d with a Mixture of asto nistiment and Horror to what he said, and casting his Eyes furiousty on his Wife — 5 — thau vilejl of all Creatures., cry’d he, thou wouldeji not oray have robbed me, but wouldeji have murdered tus poor Man for. having prevented it
138 Memoirs; ?/'
-- -1 wonder m j own Life was safe., too much
in the Power, as well as my Fortune and my Honour, of fucb a Fiend as thee. She Spoke not all this time one v/ord, nor lifted up her Eyes; and.he made them bind her, naked as she was, with ssrong Cords, and then locked her into a Room alone, the Key of which he kept himself; but placed two Slaves at the Door to prevent any Attelnpt that might be made of rescuing her. When he had Seen this doiie, he retired to another Chamber, rather to ineiitate than flecp.
Several of the Servants staid with the Chevalier to ask further Particulars of this Affair, and he having done his best to Satisfy their gu riostty, they in their Turn inform’d him, that at Midnight their Master came home, and bs ing let in by one that heard him at the first knock, and lightest him to his Chamber, ste f>hano was found in Bed with their mistress; that their Master running to his Glofet for a Pistol to shoot him, the Villain took that Opportunity of jumping out of the Window, and that the Fall had broke his Neck.
The remainder of that Night past over in Restcdions occaston’d by the late Adventure, and early in the Morning the fair Offender was carried before a Magistrate and from thence to the County Prison, where she was to wait the Arrival of some other Justices soon expected, to take her Trial. Everybody believed her Sentence would be Death, because the Adultery was committed; and the Robbery of her Plosbanst, and Murder of the Chevalier fames (lifappouited^ only by the interppfuiqii of Frp
'vidence.
   139
vidcnce. Her Husband, wrong’d in the cruel manner he had been, could not endure the Thought of feeing her Execution, and stwas imagin’d brib’d the Gaoler to affiss her to make her eseape; for file got not only out of Prison one Night, but Safe on board a Vestel Which fail’d with her the same Moment, and die was never heard more of in Penfilvania.
This Affair made a very great noise, and the co.ndudl: of the Chevalier received all the Praises it deserved— — Masser, fenhble that it was his Peace of Mind he had consulted, in rather endeavouring to convert thah expose a Woman he knew was So dear to him, became afterward extremely kind to him; but the Chevalier himself was very thoughtful for a long time, he compared the difpo fitioii of this Woman with that of his Uncle Richard, and found they were inspired with the same wicked Spirit; and it seemed no less strange than shocking to him, that human Nature could sofar degenerate.
At length, however, his recovered Health and wonted Strength enabling him to go about other Occupations than thol^ of Fhought.^ he went cheerfully to his accustom’d wi>rk, in which he continued till the full Expiration of his Time of Servitude, without any o: her ill Accident happening either to retard er hinder his being made free,
■ Thus had this youn  born to an ample Fortune and illustrious Rank, lan guistied full thirteen Years in the most painful and laborious Bondage that can be endured — oxpoced to all manner of Hardstiips, Difficiil ■ ^ tics
140
ties and Dangers; but now the Time was come to put an End to his Misfortunes on that Side the Globe, and give him an Opportunity to try what Reception he fiiould find in thost Parts where he had reason to expe6t better Ustge. Let us therefore leave him Setting out for a Place he had So long languished to behold, and cast our Eyes a while on the odd Tigure lib cruel Uncle made in the Dignity he had assum’d.,,.
He might indeed be justly: compared to the Jay n the Fable, pluming himself and stmt 'ting in the peaencfs Feathers; for tho’ he was high born, atid had been allow’d a fuitabls Educstion, yet his Soul was not the least a kiii to Nobility; and as instead of true Grandeur, cister in his way of thinking or outward be h.aviour, he had only a certain mean Pride and whenever he went about to ape the Man of Consequence he did it with So ill a Grace, as excited rather the Contempt than Reverence of all that Saw him.
'Having, a? has been already related, taken on him the Title of bron de aitamant immediately on his brother’s Deeeafe, he began to blaze in all the Pomp of his borrow’d Dignity, without constdering how Small a Revenue there was to support it; for tho’ the late Baron could dispose of the Estate only for his owm Life, yet he had so encumber’d it with Debts, for the Payment of whidi the Chevalier was engaged, that the gay Equipage be at strst setup wjis Soon retrenched, and he found himself in Such very low Circumstances, as obliged him to Solicit the Government for
 mi  141,
a Fenfioii, in V hich he had better success than he merited, and was ordein an Allowance of iixteen hundred Crowns per Annum till the Estate should be cle.ar’d; but this not being Sufficient for his private Extravagancies and Debaucheries, he bethought him(el( of looking cut for a Wife with a good Fortune. Tothfs end he lest Altamont and return’d to his own Country, in the western Parts of which he found alady, who to her great imisfominegave Credit to the Vows he made her of a most tender and faithful Passion: Her Relations being'plain -- bred People, who had not conversed much iwtth She Great world, iho’ of a very good Family, (aw not anything to obje(9: against either in his Manners or Character, so that the Match was concluded in a short time. He dived with her in the Country for .afew Months; and then, pretending Bussnefs, came to Town, taking with him the best part of her fortune: Having Soon run through it, he wtnt down tsgain for the Remainder; but here a most un -- lucky Accident befd him, and he was accused of a Crime, which, whether guilty or nor, he really merited the Puniffiment of for those he had committed against his innocent Nephew
- many Miles distant from his lady’s Seat, two of his Servants were taken up for a Robbery on the Highway; being fotmd guilty
they impeached their Lord, on' which, notwithstanding his Digiiity, he was feixed, carried to Prison, and laid in Irons. No Proof ivowever being brought against him bessdes the
- Oaths of iheie Fellows whidi it Seems was
not
142 Memoirs, of an
not Sufficient to convidl: a Man of quiauty, flio’ either lingly would have hang’d a meaner person, he was acquitted; but the Affair made So great a Noilc in all that part of the Country, that he loss all the respedt he had there.
Soon after this the old de aagua died,
whose Title and Possessions devolving on the Pleir of Altamont., as next of Blood, this pretended Peer began to think himself the Minion of Fortune, and blown up with his new Dignity, render’d himself more ridiculous than ever: He So over aded the Great man., that his real Littleness was visible even to the nioss (hallow Capacity, and he never attempted to' inspire dive but he excited a Sneer inssead of a sufwjfion. This he had too much Cunning not to see, but self-love not permitting him to imagine the Small Regard paid to him, especially by his Inferiors, was owing to anything in himself, he would Sometimes fall into Such Fits of raging Passion, as were little different from Madness.
He had indeed Some more material occa ssons for Discontent; the late Count having = never loved him, had took care,. since he could not deprive him of the Title, to deprive him as much as was in his Power of the Means of Supporting it with Dignity, and bequeath’d not only all his personal Effects but also very cou ssderable Portions of the Essate to other Re' ' w’ho he thought more worthy of if. On this Count Richard had recourse to Some Gentlemen of the long Robe, who gave it as their Opinion, that the late Count had no Right to make Such a Tessament; and pursuant to
their
xj'nfortmiate Toimg Nobltdmn. 14’y
their Advice, he commenced many vexatious Processes againss the Claimants, which having once enter’d into, he coirld not eaiily dissn tangle himsetf from. As he hearti y hated to pari with any Money except for the Gratification of his looser pleasures, or to make a Show in the World, the Sums continually drain’d from him on this account put him be;
ypnd all Patience -- every See he found himself
obliged to give threw him into Agonies,, and the sight of a Chancery BUI was a Dagger to his Heart.
Finding himself thus without Love, without Refpedi on the one fide, and teaz’d with. perpetual Importunities on the other, he left the Care of his Affairs to a Person he could confide in, and crossed the Sea, determin’d to live for Some time at his Barony of auamont., which being a cheap Place, he might repair, the Damages these expensive Lawsuits had done his Essate. He had not however So much Command over himself as not'to make a Stop at the Capital in his Way, that being a Place w’here he knew he could indulge his inciinationsj such as they were, at a very low Price. But here it, was he found what he never knew before, or had believed it was iji Nature to inspire him with; I mean an honourable paf fion, in whichhe had no View of Interest. Happening on a Visit he made to the Lady of a dig nify’d Clergyman to meet a Lady there, he was ■ at first Sight so struck with her Charms, that he thought himself the most miserable Man on Earth in having already disposed of those Vows to another, which could alone entitle him to
any
144 Memoirs ^ an
nny Mope of possessing her; but as he hnd the moss alive and ready Invention of any Man breathing, he prefenily bethought him of giving out that his Lady was dead. The Mother of the Chevalier James having rdign’d her unfortunate Life just before his Departure, Decency had obliged him to wear Black on that Occasion, and the Mournhig habit he arrived in, corresponding with his Pretences, ever)' Body believed him a Widower.
That poor Lady, whole real death^gave a Colour to this Pretence, had all this 1 ime led a moss melanchiily Life: d'he.newsof her, husband’s and son’s Death reach’d her at the same time, and tho’ according to rdl Circumstances that pat of tiris Intelligence that was real, had no great Esscst upon her, yet the sstiitioiis one occalioiied such Agonies as threw her into a lingering Disorder, which at lass ended her Days. As (he had for a long time lived unloved and unrefpefied, So Hie died unpitied and uuregretted, and was bury’d in a Manner I idle besseting the Rank ste once ' held ill the World, or (he indeed destrved.
So littleexcuse do the ssightess Errors Sometimes find, w'hile greater ssrall pafs uncensured by the World, and reflect: no (Obloquy on the Person guilty of them! how weak the Judgement thereiorc that is built on Rumour, or guided by Appearances!
The young and beautiful Anadea.^ for So the prefect Object of our count’s Assedions was called, might however be eaiily deceived by the Pretences of a Nobleman who Seemed to languidi for her with the moll tender and ardent
Passion ■
xjnfortunau Young Nohkman, 145;
Passion: Simplicius, her Father, was a very hoiien and wealthy Merchaiic, had good sense; but, without Guile himsell', suspedststit not in others, and Saw with Pleastire the fair prospedt his beloved Daughter had of making her Fortune So much above what he ever could have expcdled for. her. So that the Count de Anglrii lound no Difficulty in obtaining Permission to visit her; (lie received his. Addresses as they were authorised by her Father, with S weetness; and if she found nothing in him to inspire her with a violent Passion, (lie looked on that he professed forster as an tionour which ssie could not toogratefylly acknowledge.
Thus for a Sime did everything go on in a Smooth Channel, smdcomw. Richard bad not the least Room to fear the success of his dc ssgns; ssis certain indeed that had they been carried on with somew’hat more Privacy, they had not met with the Impediment they did : Put the intended Marriage between So great a ivinn and ' the Daughter or simpucim.,. becoming the general I'alk, there were not wantingsome wno took the Liberty of saying to all her Istiends, they wissied the young Lady was not going to be made as miserable as she espedftss to be happy. On this a farther Inquiry was privately made into the count’s Character, and many astonifhing Accounts of his Debaucheries; ill Management, and ill Humour were daily ■ brought to the Family oistmpucius. Dazzled with the Grandeur of Equipage andtiile, and deceived by an exterior Profession of Hontiin; at first they Saw not the Vices hid benerrhfo fair a Covering, but general Report,, backed with H Very
.14 6 Memoirs of a n
Very strong Circumstances, now making them more cautious, the virtuous Father resolved to be allured there was a thorough'reformation of Manners before he consented to the Marriage, stattering as it was in Appearance: He would not however rashly rejes such an Offer, but behaved with somewhat more cooliiess to the Count, and ordered his Daughter to do the Same, Sometimes pretending fhc was abroad when he came, or that being indispofed, fly could not receive hisvilit. 1 his Alteration was visible enough to the impatient Lover, and fearing Some Accident might intervene to discover the Deception he had been guilty of, prelsed more eagerly than ever for the Completion of his Willies, and became at last So very importunate, \hntsim was obliged to answer him in this Manner; My Lord. Said he, / am as sensible as I ought to and as any Man of my Circum jiances can be of the Honour of your Lordjjjip's Alliance, ^ but I see no Occasion for hurrying up the Affair — my Daughter is yet very young, ^ and Persons of her Age are uncertain w their Affections— — / think it would he better to wait till a more perfedi Knowledge of your good Qualities fixed her in those Sentiments which are necessary to make you both happy.
It is not to be doubted, but that a Man So bent on the Gratification of his Passion as was Count Richard., Said everything he could to make Simplicius more compliable, but the Merchant was resolved, and all his Rhetoric had no effedi: : — After this he used his utmost Efforts to prevail on the young Lady to marry him privately; he complained to her of the little
Sense
isnforf unate Toun  147
Sense (he had of his Passion: Accused her Father of forgetting in Age the Warmth by which Youth is inssigatedj and Swore he could not live in So cruel asufpence; what her Heartfelt on this Occassoii I will not pretend to say; but this was evident, that whatever tenderness ssie felt for him, the perfect Obedience (lie had for her father’s Commands exceeded it.
Finding the same Turn of Mind both in Father and Daughter, and that though his addref fes were far from being rcjesed by either, yet that they equally wanted to gain Time, he began to suspect that they had received Some Intelligence of his lady’s being living, and therefore waited till they should be more certainly informed as to that Point -- He knew very well that
by sending to they would easily be convinced of the Truth, and as that would be the total Destrudlion of his Hopes, hadrecourle to Stratagem, worthy of himself to assure the Accomplissiment of them.
He employed two Fellows who were Dependents on him to watch her wherever (he went, till they (hold find an Opportunity to stize on her, and bring her to him, and they executed thqir Commission with Facility e iiough; after waitingtwo or three Days without Time or Place concurring with the Enterprise, they saw her juss at the Close of Day go out of her father’s with only a little foot boy to attend her; fhewas going to make a Visst at afriend’s House three or four Streets off, and had occa sson to pafs through a pretty dark and narrow Passage in her Way to it; here they stopped her, and one putting his Handkerchief to her Mont h Hz to
14s M E M ot R s of an
to prevent her crying out, forced her along wiih him to the Extremity of the Alley, where a Hackney coach happening to be, he thrust her into it. The other all the Time kept the 13oy in the Place where they ssrst met, that he might not see wtat was done with his Lady, and w'heii he thought his Companion had carried her off let him go, and made the best of his Way to the count’s, where he found the Piize they had been in Chase of, was just brought in before him.
It would be in vain to go about to represent the father’s Agony wffien the boy’s Return informed him of this Rape, or the daughtei’s Terror, first in finding hersdf in the Power of a Man she knew not, and afterwards in that of one who had so violent a Passion lor her, and who ffe might well think would not have proceeded thus far without having Some de fign against her Virtue.
Siyriplicius privately omitted nothing to discover the Ravidiers; but as he little i'ufpeqcd Gowvii Richard was the Person, endeavoured to conceal what had happened from hisknovv ledge, and w'henhecame to visst her, as hedid the very next Day, in order to prevent all thoughts.stomarissngon his Account, he was only told that Ore was gone to pafs a few Days •wiih a Relation a little Way out of Town. Everything thus favouring his deligris, he kept ihe young Lady extremely close, but treated her with the extremest refpe6t, laying the Blameof vvhat he had done intirdy on the Force of his ^ paffion, and the cruel Delays he had' met with ’in his honourable pretenss^m^j' 'bistall he could
Ly
 tin  149
Siy was ineffedual to remove her apprchen iions; She wept Night and Day, and Hill in treated him to let her return home. This he told her was the only thing he could prevail withhimself to refuse her, as_flie had asked it without Hope of being granted, fne could not be surprised her Petition had no better etreds^ yet (he still continued to renew it, perhaps st>r the sake of Form; for by degrees her appreheii fionsgrew lecs formidable than they had been, and file became more easy. She had always looked on the person of the Count with favourable Eyes — as (lie had not conversed much with any of his Sex, (he Saw not in his Behaviour that Want of Delicacy which Some Ladies would have despised him for — In fine, (lie rather loved him than hated him — Then his Quality had Charms for her which (he could not reistc and his Excess of Aste; ion (lie thought demanded Some Return. She began to repent her having paid too great an Obedience to what now st; emed to her the Caprice of a Father; agd had the Count now prelsed her to Marriage without his gonsent, stie doubtless would have yielded. But this Subtle Lover, perceiving the Advantage he hourly gained over her, evaded any difeourse of that kind, yet Rill continued to tell her he could not live without
her -- -- thatstie was the only Woman he ever
did, and ever could love; and plied her in cefsantly with Oaths, Tears, Prayers, mingled with the most hyperbolical Encomiums on her
Beauty -- -- Would Sometimes, as if he knew
not what he did and was transported out of himself, Snatch the most ardent Kisses from her H % Lips
150 Memoirs of m
Lips and Breast; then feigning he condemned his Passion as guilty of too great presumption, fall on his Knees imploring her forgiveness — i — The Pardon granted, he again osteiided;
and then again repeated the offence still
every time encroaching farther, till he arrived
at the most dangerous Liberties angry Ihe
was, but alas her resentmeiit was ihort lived: He had the Artifice by new Submissions to alleviate new Transgressions, and became more emboldened as ssie grew more Softened — that timid Modesty, which is one of the Surest Guards of Virtue, by degrees wore off; and by being accustomed to pardon those tumultuous Marks of his Passion, she began to think they stood in need of none, and by her Eyes confessed' fly was not difpleased with them : He watched the melting Moment, and to one Freedom, added greater still, till he pursued his Temerity to the full Gratification of all liixurious Love can covet.
it may, perhaps. Seem strange that a Man of his Humour, and having the Object of his Dtssres So fully in his Power, Should not without any Ceremony have Seized at once the Joys he languished for, and saved himself the Trouble of these Artifices which but Step by Step made him the Master of them. With any other Woman he doubtless would have ailed in that manner; but he really loved dta .wn'th a Passion which would not Suffer him to be content with Favours’ from her' obtained by force, and in which her own Inclination had not feme part.
She
   151.
"She aster this proposed to him what he had' often done to her, being united for ever by a private Marriage; but tho’ he loved her stili he was now in Possession of all she could give him, and found no necessity for Forms to Secure it to him without Some other gonssdera tion. He therefore told her, that as her Father was extremely rich, that it would be for their mutual Advantage to oblige him to give a Portion with her, which might clear his; Estate of Some Encumbrances at present on it, through the ill Conduct of the late Baron, and the unkind Testament of the Counr. these two Articles, which (he knew to be: truth, made her readily promise to join with: him in any Method that might gain her father’s. Consent.
Count Richard was extremely glad to have, brought her to this Point; and as he was in reality foimuch distressed for Money, that he would have married any Woman with a Portion, he chose to have it with Jnadea rather than any other. That which was: once necessary for his Pajfton., was now so for his Ititerefl; and he went about obtaining it by Ways pretty extraordinary, but which Seemed to him most likely to Succeed, and which are not greatly to be wondered at in a Man of his Arrogance.
He prevailed with Anadea to write a Letter of his didating to her Father, the Contents of which were as follow :
H 4 t
252 ■ M E M O I R S
io Monsieur Simplicius.
Moji dear and honoured Sir TT is with Shame, tho’ not Repentance, I confess my tenderness and Gratitude for rny dear Count got the better of my Duty to you, and all other Considerations whatever
— ^ -- -- that Coldness you commanded me to
treat him with, on Surmises which I am con. vinced had not the lead Foundation in Truth, had like to have been fatal to us both. — neither of us could Support it, and we agreed to throw off that cruei Conftraint my pretended
Rape was with my ownconfent, only a feign’d Force was used to takeoff all suspicion from my Lord, to whom I directly went, and have ever since continued with him: As all this was done only with a View of en^ j^aging your consent to what you have no rea ion but to embrace with Joy, I flatter myself you will no longer refuse it, since in doing So you will render for ever miserable her who wishes to be henceforward
Tour tnoji obedient Daughter.,
Anadea.
This he inciosed in another from himfessi the Words whereof were these : ^
...
xjjiforttmate Toung Nohkman. 153
To Monsieur Simplicius. SIR,
AS you are not yet old enough to forget the Warmth of those Desires incident to Youth, that Remembrance will, idareanswcr, influence you to pardon both your lovely
Daughter and myself -- -- If what we have
done can be called a Crime, I beg you will reflect it was wholly owing to your Cruel delaying that Union we mutually deflred. I had a Sincere Inclination for your Alliance, the Flame I had for Anadea was no less pure than her own Virgin Thoughts; yet you, as my dear Girl has ssnee informed me, on Some idle Stories invented, perhaps, by those who envied you, wanted Time to confider whether I were worthy of. the Blessing I aspired to — -1 mention not this to reproach you, I have too much rerpedt for the Father of my Anadea% but, Sir, it was a ssrange and ill timed Caution, and, were I of the Temper of fomemen, might have proved the Ruin of your Daughter; bot I ssill love and adore her, have a regard for you, and for my own Honour -- -- 1
wish nothing more than to call her mine by those Ways which Heaven has ordained; but as. I am at present circumstanced cannot marry
without some Money -- -- -- -- 1 ssiall dessre no
more than what the Exigence of my Affairs just now require, and what you can very well afford to give her without any Prejudice to your other Children. Five ihoufand Crowns H s will
154 Memoirs??
be of infinite Service to me at this Time; and as you must be certain nothing but the ex tremest paltion could induce a Man of my Quality to marry with So trifling a Dower, you may be as certain, that nothing but a pressing Occasion could make me ask anything at all of you. Confider therefore, Sir, how we stand at present— — — daughter’s eternal happiness, Reputation and Peace of Mind depend upon your answer; and do not by an ill judged resentment, which would neither avail you nor prejudice me, flight the
Offer I now make -- -- What is done can
never be undone — it lies on you to render it ■ the Glory or the Infamy of your Family, and i doubt not but you will have good sense enough to choose the former of these two, and also to believe that, in leaving it to your Option, I acquit myself both to God and Man of all Blame in this Affair. The Sooner you resolve, the Sooner your daughter’s Character will be cleared from all aspersions may b's thrown upon it; and as I desire her Vindication equal with my own, stiall think every Hour an Age till 1 am her lawful Husband, which Tie will bind me to style myself,
Tour mojl obedient Sony as well as humble Servant, R. DE Anglia.
Let any one who is a Parent judge whst Simplicius must feel at the receipt of these two
Letters.
Unfortmate Young Nobkman.
Letters. To find that the Count de Anglia who had profess So honourable a Passion for his Daughter, was the Ravisher who had stole her, and that by her Confession she had been accelsory to her own Rape, were Such equal ivlaiters of Assonifhment to him, that it is hard to Say at which he wondered moss. That Grief too which had never left his Heart since the loss of Amdeny was now greatly heightened by perceiving that ssie had Joss even the Shame of her Condition, and durst not only avow it, avow it to a Father who, (he knew, detested Infamy much more than Poverty, but also mention it as a trivial Error, a Fault stie even pretended no Repentance for. All this was So shocking to his honest Nature, that he could Scarce Support it; but however, taking Prudence for his Guide, tho’ he had much less tenderness for his Daughter than before this Accident happened, yet he still had too mudi for the Reputation of his Family not to be willing to repair it if by any Means he could — — He was strangely divided in what manner he should proceed : He had been lately told by several People that the Countess de Anglia was really living; others, deceived by the Report the Count had caused to be Spread, as
iured him she was dead -- -- It would require
Time to be ascertained of the Truth, and the Honour Anadea would Suffer no delay — ■
.She might possibly become pregnant, and Marriage after that would be inessedtual to retrieve her Fame; bessdes the count’s Mind might change, and she was then inevitably lost. It Seemed al So unlikely to him, that a Per Son. of., So
15 6 Memoirs of m
So high a Rank would expose hirtiself So far, ' whatever other Vices he might be guilty of, as to marry a Second Wife while the former: was in being, who could not long be kept in ignorance of the Wrong done to her, and would doubtless assert her Right, to the con fulion of her perfidious Husband: It therefore Seemed best to him to comply with their Request, and give both the Money demanded of him and a free Pardon for what was past; yet being willing to have as little as possible to reproach himself with on this Occasion, he required the Count to give his Oath before a Magistrate, that there was no Woman living that had any claim to him as a Husband. Alas, he little knew that the person he had to deal with considered the most Solemn Vows no' more than Words of course, and would have made and broke ten thousind for half the Sum he now expected. He went with the same Unconcern that Innocence itself could have done on such an occasion, and in the presence of Several of the Friends of Sirnpliciux took the most Sacred Oath that Words could form, that he was never married but once, and that the Lady to whom he had been thus engaged was no longer in the World.
This done, Simplicius paid him five thousand Crowns, and the Marriage was Solemnised in a very public Manner, many Rcia* tions of the Bride being Witnesses of it; after which, for till fire was a Wife the still anxious Father could not be prevailed upon to See his Daughter, be gave them both his Blessing, and, willed them lasting Happiness;, tho’ as he
Since
xjnfortunate Toun  157
since declared he little expected they would' ssnd it. He lived not however to See the Sad reverse in the councs Behaviour, or the Miseries that afterward befell his Daughter; but his Family had Sufficient Realbn to regret the Alliance, and to be ashamed of what at first they had looked on as an Honour.
For Some Years she was treated with the Refpeftdue to her Sirppofed Dignity; and the Count continued to have that Regard for her, that having Some reason to fear his first Wile might be troublesome, he employed a person, of whose Fidelity to him and good Understanding he had reason to be convinced, to treat with her and oster her a pretty large Sum of Money to quit all Claim to him. That poor Lady being left in a very indifferent Condition at his parting with her, and now knowing him too well to wish to live with him any more, wisely accepted the Proposal, and gave it under her Hand never to molest him with any Woman whatever.
As the Count never before had any Children that he could depend on were his own, and had now three by Anadea., it may be lupposed they contributed not a little toward preierving, his Afieftion for their Mother; but the natural Inconstancy of his Nature at last prevailed, he grew weary of the Charms he had once So much adored: He not only wronged her Bed with Women of the most abandoned Chambers, but also treated herfelf as a common
Prostitute — -- -- - As a Sanbion for his own
profligate Behaviour, he accused her of having been False to him — — grew by degrees to
deny
158  .
deny her even Clothes and Pocket money.
-- -- abused all her Relaifons, pretended they
carried on her Intrigues; and at last went fa far as to deny his Marriage with her, tho’ it was impossible for anything to have better Tessimonials. What brought him to usher with this height of Barbarity, was a ssrange Affection he had taken for a Woman who had not any one Qualideation to recommend her to a Man of the lead Share of Sense or Delicacy in his Pleasures; but was Mistress of a consummate Impudence, and, ’tis Said, made the Price of her Favours his ill usage of his Wife. Whatever it was, happening to come home one Evening more early than was his custom, and finding his Wife abroad he inquired where she was gone, and was told the Chariot .was ordered to her brother’s; on which he went directly thither, fell upon her in the grossed Terms, quarrelled with her Brother, searched the house for a Gallant he pretended die came to meet there, drew his Sword upon the Servants, and behaved like a Man bereft of Reason;; in reality this Passion was all put on, and only the Prelude to his turning her out of his house for ever, which he did that same Night, without fuffeting her to take any of her Jewels, Trinkets, or even Wearing Apparel but what the had upon her Back.
On this cruel usage she complained to the Bishop of the Diocese, who was her very good Friend, and at whose house it was die first had the Misfortune to see him : He assured heros his Proteilionj as did also Several other
Persons
Unfortmtate Toun  159
personsof thegreatessdistin6fion. The Count was highly condemn’d by everybody, and Some there were whouook the liberty to Speak pretty fliarply to him on this Account, which So enraged him, that he Sent his foot nhan to lier with a Message by word of Mouth, importing. That if ever she dared to complain or even mention their Separation as an AI occasioned by anything but her own ill Conduit, he would turn her Children out of Doors, and declare them Bassards. To this she returned for answer, That she was entirely free from all Appreheufions on that Score, fur he very well knew she could prove her Marriage. This so incensed him, that he obliged the same Messenger to go back and xell her. She would find herself no more than a Concubine; for he had another Wife who had a prior Claim. Such a Menace, which to make good he muss proclaim himself the basess and most perjured of Mankind, made her conclude he was really Mad, and that she ought not to feed his Frenzy by any further Replies.
After this there was nothing of ill he did not accufesher of being guilty of, tho’ perhaps few Women have fewer Vices or more Virtues than this unhappy Lady; but her own Pathetic Words can best express her cha railer, in a Letter she wrote to a Gentleman Who had been a Receiver of Rents to the Baron de Altamont., as also to her own cruel Lord. It was in answer to one from him, condoling her on this unhappy Turn III her Ashairs.
. r
io m.'emoik^ofan
l’o Monjieur Amico.
SIR,
HOW great a Cordial Pity is to Dissrefs, your obliging Letter has convinced me — Many there are who seem’d to idolise me in Prosperity, now throw Contempt on my jf flidion; but thank Heaven I have a Soial capable of disdaining Such ungenerous Treatment -- -- yet they See the Injustice which has
brought it on me more plainly than you can
do at the Distance you are -- But you indeed
are better acquainted with the Temper of my perfidious Lord, and therefore may with the greater ease acquit me in your Mind of the Crimes he has the Barbarity to accuse me of,
— — O Sir, what Words can paint, -- -- -- nay,
what Heart but mine that feels it, can conceive
the Calamity 1 labour under! -- to be turn’d
out of Doors, stripped of everything, abandon’d to the (dharity of my Friends even for Bread, would be the least of my Troubles, were they not infiidted on me by a Husband — a Husband whom I have loved with the most
tender and sincere Affedlion but to be torn
froiri my Children, to have those dear Babes exposed to the cruel usage of a Wretch w ho triumphs in their mother’s Place, this is what;
I, can Scarce Support, yet is not this the worst, i
. -- -- my Reputation, dearer to me than husc
band -- -- Children- -- the World — — my;
Reputation, Sir, is struck at — the most innocent Actions of my Life ceiifured, and represented as Crimes, Such as 1 never had even
au i
vnforhtnate Toun  i 6 i
an Idea of. — You have been witness of my Behaviour for Some Years, have Seen with what Submission I have born all the perversc Humours of my Lord — how little I regarded
any Company but him -- -- -- how happy I have
been whenever I Saw him pleased- -- -- -- --
much I have endeavoured to divert him when
disqaieted -- -- In fine, it was my whole Study
to render him content -- -- -- -- and now to be
, thrown off -- -- vilify’d -- scorn’d, turn’d out
to Beggary and Shame, was ever any beloved Husband So unjust, So inhumane! was ever
any ssirrliful Wife So truly miserable! -- - —
What 1 fnall do, I know no: — loth am I to commence a Prosecution, yet hovv (hall I a void it without giving room for the World to,
believe me as ill as I am reprefented. if he
has another Wife, as I am apt to believe he said but too true in that, for heaven’s sake inform me of it — you who are in the same Kingdom cannot be ignorant of that -- -- your Advice
will be Charity to a helpless, friendless innocent Woman, who never knowingly did Hurt to any one in the World, yet who is made by him, who ought to be her Protector, the most forlorn Wretch breathing. -- -- Continue
to commilerate my Condition, to pray for me, and to write to me, who, in what State foeverl am, can never be but the Friend of To honest a Man. There yet may come a Time in which I may more testify my Gratitude; till then, accept the Thanks of
Tours finctrely.^
A. DE Anglia.
Nothing
i62 Memo irs of an
Nothing could be more deplorable, and indeed more critical, than the case of this injured Lady. The Count now openly declared he was never married to her, tho’ be ssdes the Regisser, there were yet many living Witnesses who had been present at the Solemnity. — easy was it for her to prove herself his Wife, but then she trembled for her Children, who were entirely in his Power, and whom, if he turn’d out, flic had no Means of Supporting. And then again, should it be true, as (he now much feared it was, that there was apriorwife in being, file could have no Claim even to the Title or Name fly now' enjoy’d, and her Children would be proved illegitimate, tho’ born in Wedlock and of a virtuous Mother -- -- both file and them, tho’ innocent,
must have born all the Scandal of Guilt, without any other Recompense than the poor sa tisfadion of recording Infamy on a Man who seem’d dead to all sense of that as well as of Honour, choosing either indifferently as it Served his Avarice or the Gratification of his Sensual Appetite. these Considerations oblig’d her to lie still under her load of Woes, while the inexorable Count was So far from pitying, that he feem’d to take a malicious Pleasure, or at least in flattering that of his mistress or in glorying in the Wrongs he did her, and niak i ing her Distress the daily subject of the most Scurrilous Mirth in all (Jompanies.? '
That fiiameless and wicked Woman, for whose sake the unfortunate Anadea had been thus treated, did not however long triumph in; her Successful Mischief; he grew as weary of
her
xjnforttinate Toung'nobleman. 163
her Impudence as he had been of the others Modessy, but (he bore not her Fate in the Same manner; aster he had put her out of his house and forbid her ever entering it more, (he Game in his despite, would burst into the Room when Ihe heard Company was with him, overturn the Tables, reproach him with having promised her Marriage, and call him by Such Names as he indeed deserved, tho’ not
from her. -- A Termagant by Nature, and
audacious by a low Education, she regarded ncitherthreats nor Blows, both which (lie return’d with So much Force, that Sometimes the Servants were obliged to come to the Assistance of their batter’d Lord. He got her Several times put into the house of Corredion; but (he was no Sooner at Liberty than (he renewed her Affronts, would frequently break his Windows, and raise Such Mobs about his Door, that his House seem’d rather a common Brothel than the Dwelling of a Nobleman.
To get rid of this Plague, as well as of the daily Remonstrances made him by all the Sober part of his Acquaintance on anaded.s account, be prepared to leave that Kingdom and return to ♦ * * ♦ *; but before he did So, he was in a manner compell’d by the Bishop and Some of the Nobility, who join’d with that Prelate in fogood a Work, to Settle handsome Fortunes on the three Children, who were all Daughters, he had by Anadea., but could not be prevail’d upon to see their Mother or do anything for her. What a Complication of unprecedented, barefaced Cruelty, Ingratitude and Perjury, was there shown in bis Behaviour to
this
2^4 Memoirb ^ m
this Lady! But itstem’d, as if flufh’d with that success of his urmatural Dessgn against his Nephew, he had stnoe not thought it worth his while even to diffembk the least propen/ity to Good, but went on, in a continued Series of all manner of Grimes, without the least Regard to Decency or Reputation.
Soon after his Return to that Kingdom of which he was a Native, he gave an Instance of mean ibiritedness, which is Scarce to be equal’d among the lowest Rank, I hope much less among his own. He received Intelligence from the wei that the Countess de Anglia his first Wife was dead, and that by her prudent Ma nageraent of the Sum he had given her in order to prevent her from disturbing him in his new Choice, join’d to the acceltion of some Legacies from Relations, (he had left behind her to the amount of between five and six thousand Crowns, on which, greedy of getting that Money into his Possession, he posted down directly, and took out Letters of Administration to that Wife whom he had renounced and abjured in the most Solemn manner.
Strange Example of mingled Meanness and Effrontery! who but himself would not have scorn’d to have deprived the surviving Relatives of that poor Lady of that Pittance her Frugality had saved, perhaps to recompense at her Death those who had been kind to her in
Life? -- -- Who but himself would not have
been astiam’d to have Seen any of those who were of the Kindred, or even of the Acquaintance of a Lady he had So greatly wrong’d?
But
 g Nchleman. i6g
Bat this muss be Said of him,, that hkpride never hinder’d him from delceiiding to anything b, y Whidi he could be in the least a Gainer, nt r his nwe/ry Ironi imagining that everything, he did was becoming in him..
In this manner did the titular Count de an disgrace the Dignity he had assum’d, va hile the real Owner, amidll ajl the Toils of a cruel Slavery, lamented nothing So much a the want of Opportunity to improve tbose ralents he had received from God and Nature, that he might do Honour to it. but the L ime was now at hand when thecontrass between them, should be Seen, as well as allthofe dark rrtysse rimis Projects brought to Light, by wtiich the ‘attlefs Innocence of the o/^e had been betray’d, and the Treachery of the other so long fuc cestful.
. The Chevalier now no more a Slave,
took his Passage in a merchant’s Veliel to ^a rnalca., Where being safely arrived he found a l^leet of Ships of War riding, in the Port; as he heard one of them was Ihorcly to let fail tot Europe, he enter’d himself on board it as. a common Sailor, havitrg neither Money nor Recommendations to be received in any other Capacity; but he had been too long inured to Labour to think this a Hardship, dpecialty when it, contributed to bring him each mo nrent nearer to the Place he lb much had wissi’d to see. '
„ He had not been many days on board before he obstfved one of the. Officers; loolid very earnessly upon liuii whenever he happen’d to come in his. way;; also imagin’d' lie .had
fccn
i66 Memoirs
Seen a Face resembling that of this Gentleman but could not recoiled when or where, till the other put him out of all suspence on this Score.
He was on the Forecastle with Some others of the ship’s Crew, when he heard a Voice
from the quarterdeck cry, Here! -- you Sailor
in the blue Jacket. None present having Such a one but himself, he ran immediately to the person who call’d. What is your Name, ^ honejl Friends Said the Officer. James de Altamont.^ reply’d the Chevalier. He then ask’d him if he were not at a School he nam’d to him. At which Question the Chcvalid look’d more earnestly upon him, and now re jnembring^him, r, Sir, reply’d he, I was at that School you mention and if I am not very much mifiaken., you are Chavigny, who was there at the same time. At these Words the Officer lifted up his Hands and Eyes in token of Astonifhment. Great God I cry’d he, what Miracle is this! if you are James de Altamont, Son to the Baron of that Name, ho w happened it that you folongjince were reported deah. —.
Where have you been conceal'd"^. -- Why so
long lost to theworldl by what Chance does
your Uncle Richard enjoy your Title and Estate while you are in this Station? The Chevalier, who at the beginning of these Exclamations was endeavouring to restrain Some Tears just ready to start from his Eyes at the Remembrance of the Barbarity exercis’d against him, was routed to a kind of Fury at the latter part of them. My Uncle Richard, the Monster, cry’d he, he enjoy my Title and Estate! is then
the
Unfortunate Tcung nosleman. i6j
she Baron deadl The Officer then told hirn, ' that he was, and the Time in which he died; which the Chevalier finding correspond exactly with that in which he was trepan’d to Slavery, made him cry out, 0 Heaven can there be such Villainy in Man I The Officer then made him come into the State cabin, and having heard all his Adventures in the Same manner as they are here Set down, recounted to him those of the Chevalier Richard now call’d qom\t de anata., as he had heard them reported by the general Voice; in which the Chevalier James., in Spite of the little Acquaintance he had with the great World, found So much to despise, that he could not forbear frequently interrupting the Narrative, by Saying, Is it pojftble a Man who has had the Advantages of Education can descend to such mean asiions I The Conversation between these two lasted a considerable time, and the Officer assur’d him he would Speak to the Captain that he might make his Voyage in a different manner from what he expesed when he came on board. He was going immediately out of the Cabin to perform his promise, when recol ledting himself, Hold., said he, now I remember., the young Chevalier James de Altamont had a very particular Mark about him., which I have often taken notice of when we happened
to wash together -- -- not that I doubt you are
the Person, the Lineaments ef your Face., and the Account you give of your self ajfure me of it but f you have that Mark., it may serve to corroborate the refi.^ and be a Conviction to others as well as my self. The Chevalier immediately
ssript
j'68 mem01 of au A ■-
and gave him the light of this indelible Proof, which the other no Sooner beheld than he embraced him, Saying, There needs no more
-- -- you are the real Chevalier James dc Alta
mont -- -- the true Count de Anglia I
With this he went directly and made the Captain acquainted with this furpriting Story, who being of noble Blood himself was the
more affected with it -- -- -- He also was no
Stranger to thecharadler of the present Count, and it therefore Seemed to him not the least improbable that he should have been guilty of Such an Action; he ddired the Officer would bring this injured Nobleman into his Cabin that Same Evening, being willing to hear from his own Mouth Some farther Particulars of his Sufferings.
'The chevalier’s Friend gladly obeyed, this injundhon of his Captain, and it was now our new enfranchised Slave found himself treated like what he was, not what he appeared : The Officers of Ships of War of that Nation these were, as they are the Defence and Glory of their Country by their Bravery, So are they the Honour of their Court by their Humanity and Politeness. The noble Commander lissened to a Tale So full of Wonders with Admiration; and when he Sometimes interrupted the Chevalier in the course of it by Some Quessions, which teffi fied his Curiosity of being informed of the minuted Circumdances of his Life, he always entreated his Pardon for it. Nor was this Behaviour owing merely to Complaisance. The Adventures he heard, tho’ delivered in a
plain
Vnfortunate Tmti
t.lain Manner, without any Ornaments of Language to excite the palsions, being dictated by Truth, and uttered with a boldness in(c parable from it, stole more estefluaily into the Heart than the most elegant Fable could have 'done The captain and all prefeiit ’ fhe and fitied hard/hips of the
■^■‘illustrious 'Susterer': Every one Seemed to ■emulate the others in stiewing the Sense he •had of both; but youngfor So was; he called, wdio had been schoolfellow with the Chevalier, was quite tranfpqrted with iiaving been the lucky Dilcoverer of him.
’tis not to be doubted but that the Chevalier, now excused from all the Duties for, xvhich he had entered himstlf on board, past tyre Night in a Manner widely diiierent from what he had done for a long Series of Years — His Repose would now have been perfediy Tranquil, had it not been a little disturbed with the Reflection that all the Misfortunes so commiserated by Strangers, had been brought upon him by those of his own Blood -- -- -- -- -- -- -- it
troubled him to think that in affertiiig the Rights of his Birth, he must expose and bring to confusion the Brother of his Father; and that a Family, of which he had heard so honourable mention made, must have a lasting Elemifh cast upon it by the.vile Praflices of
one so near akin to him -- -- -- were these the
Sentiments of a Slave! Could a Delicacy like this be expefied from one thrust out from his infancy and exposed to all thetervile Offices, Labours and Slurdfhips of the most basely born! — - where had he them? — Not frona I, Edu
lyo M e MO I r s of An
Education -- -- notsrom Example — not from
xioiiversadom — Heaven alone in Spired them, and Supplied every other Want, in order to make him worthy of enjoying the Dignity he was born to inherit.
His Virtues and Misfortunes which had acquired him these newfriends, made them more Iblieitous to Serve him than generally those are of a longer ssanding; and everything So much contributed to prosper their Endeavours, that it feen^ed as if Fortune repenting of her Cruelties to the Chevalier, vas now re.
. to atone for them by being no less lavish in her Favours.
The Admiral who commanded the Fleet, was a Gentleman whose Character must suffer by any Description can be given of it; yet it is impossible to make mention, or even to ihiiik on him, without touching on Some of those great and amiable.dualites which make him Seem as intended by. Heaven for an example of the true Dignity of human: Nature
■ -- Inflexibly Good! — superior to.demp*
ration - — • too brave to be awed -- -- too Wise
to be deceived — Jussice and Glory were the lole Aim of all his Actions;; when he judged of others, it was not according to Prejudice or Appearances — ever a sseady Crjeiid to Virtue tho’ in Rags— — implacable Enemy to Vice tho’clad in all the Pomp of vain luxuriant Pride -- -- Zealous in his own Duties
— Stern, but not Cruel tp those he found
rcmiss in theirs -- -- nothing was capable, of
Souring him more than Flattery and Qssen. intion : He looked on both a Indications of ^. a mean.
xlnforumate Tbun  Aji
a mean, a weak, or wicked Mind i and if ever be discovered a peeviflniess of Humour, it was when any one attempted to gain his Favour by Wordinefs or exterior Show.
To the Presence of this Hero, who may be truly Said to have rival’d, if not outdone (c.rcumssances considered) all thoseof or Rome did the Captain think proper to introduce his Noble Sailor. Early therefore fa the Morning he ordered out the longboat and went aboard the Admiral, to whom he recited the whole History of the Chevalier James de Altamont.^ and ihtr^ated Leave to bring him. There was little need of interces lion; the Admiral had given an attentive Ear to what was Said, and found by the Course of Such unprecedented Adventures, So much innate Generosity, Fortitude, and Patience in the person who past through them, that he was no less desirous of Seeing him than the other that he should do Co. This obtain’d, the Captain return’d w^ell pleafed to his own Ship, and acquainted the other Officers and the Chevalier with what he had done. The perfect Knowledge every one there had of the Admiral, made them affired he would not ddire to see a Person whose Gondudl he did not approve; and that he would not approve without testifying it by Something more than Words, in which he was always much more iparing than in Adiions, these generous Officers had a Satisfadlion in this Thought, almost equal with that the Chevalier felt himself: Among them they equipped him in Somewhat a better manner than the Habit he came I 2 on
ry2 M E M o I RB of mi
on board in; and the Time prefixed by the Admiral for bringing him being arrived, he went With the (Saptain and Chavigny, who it was thought proper should go as a witness for him, to wait on that illdlstions Man, whose Name and Deeds were too rhuch celebrated ill those pasts of the World, nbt to have fired with Admifition a Mind So inquisitive af
great Addons as was that of the Cheva
■ His Reception was more obliging than, perhaps, he wbhid have met with if in pofsenion, Of the Title and Estate of Anglia; because there was a Pity joined ho the Regard due to Ms Birth, Which ‘gave a double Spftnefs to Complaisance itself: He had the Honour to ’ be tbld by dlie 'Who well knew how to di stiriguini, ' That there Was tnore Praise belonged to him who by the’strenjith of his Virtue knew how to bear assiiqions well, than to hirh that conquered Kingdoms by the Force of his Arms; becaiffef£d[d he, the one is ovi ing 'Wholly ■ to himfeld. dnd the other he is in dehted.for to the Coiirage of his i roofs.
'On the ■repetition of bis Misfortunes, for the Admiral Would nceds hear them from his own Mouth, the Manly Tear started into the Eyes of ilmt great good m‘an, particularly When he ineritioned the Dissresses of'his infant Years; and iho’ he Said nothing on the Eehavlour of the Chevalier Kidhardt yet all his Gestures showed howbabhorrent it was to him.
When they Were about to return to their town Ship, the'admiral desired he would draw - - • up
xjnforttmate Toung ikomman, ijg
up a Memorial' in form and present to him, which, he would Send a Copy, of, in ordijr • that wh en he arrived at that Place where he could only hope Relies, his real Quality and unhappy Cafe might be kiiowir before he appeared there in Perfoir.
This was doing all that could be done for him at So great a Dissance; and the cbeva •lier received the Obligation with all the De monftraiions of a moss ssncere Gratitude. It vr.as indeed too material an Article to be delayed, and the Captain made his Secretary that Tame Day draw up the Memorial, and on die : tieit delivered it to the Admiral, who sentit .away immediately by a Tender, and at the Same time Several Letters to his Friends, as 'did also the Captain and Some other of the oticers, with an Account of this remarkable Passage.
The News of the Chevalier James de AU tamont being living and on his return, arriving Some time before himself in both those Kingdoms where his Estates lay -- -- r— — false
Count de Anglia had Reason to be alarmed — he knew not which Way he ssioiild proceed, nor wliose Advice to ask — - he feared being betrayed by the. base part of Ids Acquaintance, and could not flatter himself that the honefi would Serve him in So black an Affair, lie was one Day alone, full of disturbed medi t dlions, when ar/iico came in, that Amico to whom the unfortunate Anadea had wrote So melancholy an Account of her Situation; but as this Gentleman will bear So great a share in I 2 what
574
what remains of these Memorrs, it will be sieccffary to give Some part of his Character.
He was well born, had a libera] Education, and a very great Capacity for bussness: He had been extremely Serviceable to the late i3a ron, arid also to the present Count, in many intricate Affairs into which their Inadvertency had plunged them : He was never backward in his Endeavours to do good, and always zealous for the cause he promoted; but then he was ssridlly Just, and would be well assured before he undertook anything, that he should have nothing hereafter to reproach himself with, or give occasion for others to do So. He had known the auamont Family Several Years, and had a regard for them, in particular for the present Count, whose Person he loved tho’ he hated his Vices, which he had not Scrupled Srequently to reprimand him for, in a manner which he would have taken from no Person in the World less capable of Serving him; but he had such continual Occ dions for his Assissance, that he durss notdifoblige nor break Acquaintance with him. Amico his certain knew him a Bad Man, but looked on his Vices as proceeding mere from the Arrogancy and Impetuosity of his Nature, and the Example of Some profligate Perfens he conversed with, than stoma confirmed Propen sit y to anything that wasvile; and ssill hoped that Time and Experience would reform him. This worthy Man had heard, as well as others, that a real Heir to Altamont and Anglia Soon expected; and as at his first Acquaintance
with
 g naleman. rjg
with the Baao'n he had heard him mention a Son he had, which he had been obliged to conceal on the Account of raising Money by leascs, as already mentioned, he had, finee the present count’s alsumption of those Titles,! otteti asked him in Gonverfatton, though? without any Suspicion of the Truth, In whatdrlace; : and of what Dissemper his Nephew died > and he now remembered, tho’ when it happened he did liot take Notice of it that the Count always gave very slight Answers on that Head,, and waved all discourse of it as much as pos Able. The Report there now was about Towts very much Surprised him, and brought him to) die Count in order to engage him to be more explicit on that Affair.
/ hearjlrange News., my Lord. Said he, what Person is this who is comifsg from Jamaica to call in quejlion your lordfhip’s Title? while he was fpeal'ng he observed a deadly paleness overspread the count’s Cheeks; but recovering himfdf as well as he could, / know reply’d he after a pause, who or what the Im, fojiure is; but an Impojlure he mu(i be. — 1 hope resumed the other, your Lordjljtp has had con wncing Proofs of the Death of your Nephew the young Chevalier James? Tes, yes., to be fare., cry’d the Count, still more confused.
d.mico did not like the Manner in which he looked, and willing to be more ascertained, put Several pretty close Questions to him concerning the exa<9: Time and Place of that youn s Death; and at length went So far as to tell him, that if he could not be very particular as to that Point, and find sufi 4 ‘ ficient
176
^cient Vouchers for it, all the World woiiid"' looh on this young person as the lawful Heir, and binilelf no other than an Usurper. itis, lb nettled thr Count, that the Ralluiefs of his i’eniper got the better of his Diffiinnlation, and he threw out at once a deogn which he had then but roughly form’d, and too midi gelled to pafs on a Man of Amicd% Penetration. Why then., (aid he, if you mtijl know the vrutf., I do not believe my Brother ever had a Son. — liver had a Son! cry’d fut'
prized beyond measure N, rcsumed he,
, not; by his ivfe. -- And this Fellow that is
timing over., f he is my Brothers Son, mnft be by one vjho was a Servant in the Family. But was there not a Son acknowledged by Baron as legitimated demanded My.
Brother., yon knov)., was a weak Man., Said the Count, but this is an Impojiure., I tell you. It behoves your Lor dpif to prove him one, cry’d; Arnica, very gravely, as well as call him Jo, or your Affairs will be but in an indifferent Situation -- — -- — I do affure you, the World is Jirongh pr^poffeft in his Favour. Lhe World are Fools then, said he, peevishly; and then
began to talk of something elfe. — -- Amico
would fain have renew’d the Converfaiion, but he artfully evaded it, and Company coming in, relieved him for that Time.
This good Man, however, could not be easy; he heartily wilh’d the (jount might be innocent, but very much fear’d he was the’ contrary : The more he heard of the Chevalier James, the morereafons he had for believing he was that Son of whom he had heard the
Baroii
Unfortumfd. Toung iiobkman. \jf
Baron Speak, and whom he would have taken home, had' he not been too much influenced by the persualioiis of his Second Wife and her Relations. He had indeed heard his he gitimacy quession’d by them on though Score of His Mother but had never heard the lead mendon that he was born of any other than the Baroness; and the count’s now asserting that he was not her Son look’d very dark and luf picious*
'The wicked Count in the mean time having well considered the Scheme he was to go upon, found he had no other Game to play thait b ssdly to deny that the baroness had ever bpeii* a Mother; and rcmembring that his Brother had a Child by one of his Servants, herefblved to pass the Chevalier for that Boy oii who.fd Milk the Chevalier was nourifh’d: Having iii' Vented Several Circumstances to give the best (Voss he could to this imprphabie Stoty, hd lent for Amko^ and pretending now to satisfy that (duriooty he had espreft when they were lust together, repeated it to him, and added' Inany Qaths and Imprecations as a conssrma tion of the Veracity of 'what he Said. knew not well whether he ought to'believe Of to reje6l thp Accomit, therefore made but little Answer, and was determin’d within himself to fufpead his Judgement till he stiould hava farther Light into the Truth.
At length that Ship of War which contain’d the Chevalier Safely arriveddt her intended
Port, 'and he had, the Satisfaction now m'stnd himself in One of the finest Kingdonis in the World, and that'where iay the greatest' ' ■ i I' 5” Parr
178, M E MO 1 Ks of an
Part of ihofe Domains he was the lawful Heir, of. He made all imaginable Halte to the (Capital, and having received his Discharge from the High Admiral of the Navy, made it his next buliness to inquire after those who were of his father’s A cquaintance. He was so fortunate as to meet in a very Short time with Amico., who no Sooner had heard of his coming, than he had an Impatience to see him. On being inform’d of the Time and Manner in which this youn had been Sent to America he no longer doubted the Treachery bis wicked Uncle had been guilty of to him; but fearing to be‘too precipitate in an Affair of Such Consequence, he would not Show the Convi(sion he had within himfelfi but Jpoke in this manner to the Chevalier. Sir Said he, 1 am inclinable to believe what you say is Tfrmh^ and if I were even to be deceived Joould have no reason to he afhanfd of my Credulity., having the Example of so great and wife a Man as that Admiral whose Credentials you bring; hut it is rny way never to ajfert anything without having the mofi fubflanual Proofs.
• — 2 will therefore make you an Offer., which if you are the Person you pretend, it will not
be for your Intereji to refufe. what I mean.,
continued he, is this, that you will put yourself under my Proteblion, and remain at my House, where .everything convenient Shall be prepared for you, while I go to the Province where you were born, and procure fucb tejli menials as may be convincing to the whole World tii well as myself, that you are the real and lawful Son of the late Baron and
born
jj/ifortunafe Totin  179
born of the baronefs his Wife. -- — On this you may depend, added he, that if I find you such,,
win omit nothing that may forward your ejiabhjjoment in those Rights derived to you from God and Nature; but if on fearching in to the Bottom of this my/iery, you peoula be proved an Impojiure., I pall be no' left imp/a ^ cable in pursuing your Fumprnent.
■ The Chevalier was extremely ready to put all his Hopes and Expedlatioiis on this Issue; but being too young when he was removet! from Altamont to remember any persons there, he told Amico he muss be obliged wholly to his own Endeavours to find out those tessi ilionials which were necessary. This the other was Sensible of, but thought to bring a Matter Such as this was to Light, was very well worth all the Pains it would cost him, and therefore having taken the Chevalier home with him; : began to prepare for his Journey.
The Count in the mean time no Sooner heard that his injured Nephew was landed and come to the Capital, than he had his Spies m every Corner, to observe where and to whom he went: He could not therefore be ignorant that he had not only Seen Amico but was even a Lodger in his House; and as that Gentleman, came not now to visit him as he was wont, doubted not but he had espoused the cause of th Chevalier against him: This very much “perplex’d him, because he knew his Zeal arid Integrity wherever he pretended a Eriendihip; •hut much more was he alarmed, when hi Emissaries brought him Intelligence that he was about to take a Journey to Altamont'. As he had reason to dread the Informations that
might:
iso Me m o I r s of an
might be gathered there by a petson of Amicf/% Sagacity, he began to cast about in his Mind for the Means of preventing his going, and being able to find no other he caused him to be arrelled for an imaginary Debt, of a very large Sum, and while he was in Confinement dif patch’d two or three of his own Creatures to the j^rovince where the Chevalier was born, xvith Orders to endeavour either to deter or buy oti'all those who might be Evidences for him.
It wnas but two days before Amico found Bail and regain’d his Liberty, after which he immediately fet out; the count’s Agents however having got the start of him, were busy in. executing their Commission, as he heard ter his Arrival.
As the Count himfelfhad mention’d to him the Name of the Woman whose Son he pretended the Chevalier was, he thought he could Bot at first address to a more proper Person j to this end having inquired her out, he went to a House of Entertainment near the Place where Ihe lived, and feiit for her; but the melsenger not finding her at home, he bethought himself of examining the Church Register in order for the Nativity: The Clerk not being in the way, the Sexton hearing a strange Gemleman had sent, came to ask what Commands he had, saying he had been an old Paristiioner, and could inform him in anything he wanted to know as well as the Clerk or even the Parfoii himself. Amico then question’d him about the Birth of a Son of the late Baron de and told him he wanted
to
unforuinate Tbttn  11
to Sec the Register On which the pcmovr readily answered, that he remember’d the Birth of the young Baron very well, but could not be positive as to the Day of the Month, and that there was no Register Kept there. This troubled Amico but as it was unavoidable, must content himself with Such Evidences as were to be, had. The Sexton rhea added, th one a Woman that lived hard by, >
might polsibly remember the exa<si: Time, be causc (he had nursed him. Arnica imagining, that (he would more readily come if this Fellow went for her, after having won his Heart by Several Qlaffes of good Liquor, destred he would do him that friendly Office as to bring, her. The Sexton presently run to her house and found her at home, but in a very great Terror, the Occalibn of which was this: Two Men, theeiniffaries which the Count had sent down, had been with her that same Day, and having been very inquissiive concerning the Birth of the Chevalier to Which
Questions (he had answered with Truth andln ^ tegrity, they told her she was a mad woraan, that there never v/as any such Child as the Chevalier parries., and that it washer own Son, and no other Ihe had nursed. This Difeourfe strangely amazed the Woman, and (he cry’d out; ivhatl vaih Koti ferfuade me I had mt the sweet young Baron at mybreaji for a whole Tear and a had. and did he not stay under my, Care for tiw] Tears more -- long after my owif f'oor Baby dledl On this one of them told her, thtif she talk’d at this Rate the Count de Angltd would have her taken up and pft
nisti’d;
L S M E M O I R S ^
nifh’d; and the other pulling out a Purse of Gold, cry’d. Don't be your ovjn Knemy., Mrs. Juggan, my Lord makes you a Present of this and vsill take care of you as long as you life, if ytiii vjill he of our Party and swear you know.
of no Child the Baron had by his Wife -- -- -- -- --
besides, added he, it will do no good to say otherwise, for if there was any fueh Child be is dead long ago. I'll take none of his Money, inters rupted she, nor 1 wond forswear myfeif for him
nor a better Man -- -- -- if my young Lord is dead
God reji his somi, but Vll never deny him. She Spoke this with Such an honest Asturance, that they despair’d of gaining her over to their Purpose, So went muttering away. They had not long been gone before (he began to think there was Somewhat more than ordinary in this, and resolved to be Seen no more by them if they should come again; So that on Seeing the Shadow of a. Man at the Door when the Sexton knock’d, believing they were return’d, she was just running out of the house thro’ a back door that led into the Fields. The Man having pulh’d open the .Door,, for it did not happen to be lock’d, ran after her and pull’d her back; What is the Matter, Juggan, Said he, did you think I was coming to murder you L No, reply’d (he, trembling, but I did not know but that somebody elfe might. The Sexton laughed at her Fright, and then ask’d her to go along with him to a Gentleman that wanted to Speak with her about the Chevalier James. This redoubled all her Apprehensions, (he doubted not but it was one of those who had been with her, and imagin’d (lie Saw a Knife
already
   18 3
already at her Throat. -- The Sexton assur’d
lier that the person who wanted her was a very Sober good natur’d Gentleman, and giving Some Description of him, which (he found disterent from the others, (he at lass consented, on Condition he would not leave the Room all the time (he was there.
She Soon, however, loss ail her Fears at Sight of Amico., and the Manner of his behaviour to her; and preicntly perceiving he was not of the Count de akglid.s Party, made no Scruple of relating to him in what Manner (he had been both tempted and menaced by Some persons Sent from him. Amico was not Surprised at the Account (he gave of this Affair, and the Simplicity with which ssie told it Would have convinced him, if he had not been so before, of the Reality of the Chevalier Jaynedi Clam: He ask’d her many Quessions concerning the time of his Birth, which (he well remember’d, even to the Day of the
Week and Hour in which it happen’d. -- -- i— —
told him also, thati the.dhild ssie had by the bar.oii was born a little before the ba ronefs’s Arrival at Ahamont.^ and that had he lived he would have been'about a Year and two Months older than the Chevalier : And on his interrogating her onuhe Death of her own Child, (he answered wqthcut any hcfi tation, that he died fucb a Day, was buried at Such a Place, and even mention’d the Person of whom (be bought his wiiiding flieet; for in that Country all are hurried in Linen. Having thus given, all the Satisfadlioil he required, and even niore than he expected, (he
asked
f8'4 ■
asked him in her Turn, the Meaning of the chevalier’s Birth being now call’d in question, Ilnce he had also been dead a great many Years ago : On which Arnito removed the Missake Ihe had been in, gave her the Motives which had induced the Baron at first to spread that Report, which the Chevalier Richard afterward confirm’d to bring about his own am bilious Ends; and assur’d her, that he was ssill living and now going to claim his Right. The poor Woman vas transported at this Intelligence, but found Ihe had more reason than ever to be in fear of the Chevalier Richard (for she could not, after hearing this, prevail bn herself to call him Count) as he had done So much to gain the Title, it was highly probable he wmuld do yet more to Secure it, and as he found he could not make her a Friend, put it out of her Power to be his Enemy; one Moment she rejoiced for her fosser child’s Life, the next fne trembled for her own. Arnico suffer’d this Appreheniioh to settle itsejf in her Mind, and when he perceived it had wholly gain’d on her Timidity, which indeed she had reason enough for, he told her that he would take care fly ffould not Suffer for her Fidelity to her young Lord, for ssie should go with him to ***** * and be provided for as well as » himself. But he added, that he hoped Ihe ha uttered nothing but the exatl Truth; fcr ship muss Swear to all fly had Said before a Tribunal which was incapable of being imposed upon, and if fly Swerved in the least Article, would be Sure to punish the Fallacy with a great deal tef Severity. The honest Creature
melted
lj?if irtunate Youn  185
incited into Tears at this stcmlng Doubt, and protected that everything flic had affirm’d was Ihidly true, that ifhe would take a thousand (3aths of it, and would not forefwear herself for the whole World.
Amico was Sorry to have given her this Concern, and comforted her as well as he could for it, by telling her, ns (lie did not know perhaps the Nature of a Court of Judicature, especially Such as file would appear before, and these were fass which happen’d Some time ago, it was necessary to prepare her, that she itiight coiisult her Memory, and neither add nor diminioi through Missake or forgetful ntfs.
After this they enter’d into farther constit taiiion how they should proceed for the Service of this injurm Nobleman. Said,
there were Several persons in that Neighbourhood who could attest the Truth of bis birth as well as herself; and it was, therefore agreed file (hold talk to them of it as in a careless manner, and without the least mention that any Perfoa was come into the Codnty in search of Witnesses. This she So wtii managedt, that one who had been a Servant in the Family, and in the very Room when the baroness was deliver’d, declared the Matter in the Presence of several People; another that had been Sent by the Baron himself to acquaint an intimate Friend then in the Country, that his Wife had brought him a Son. In fine, tho’, as it may be reasonably Supposed in Such a Space of Time, inany who knew of the chevalier’s'birth were either dead or removed from that Part of thd
■ World.
1s 6 M E M o I F. ^ of an
World, yet there were ssill a Cloud of Witnesses remaining. Amico thought two besides Inrian were Safiicient to take with him; and if nsceitky required more, the others might be Sabpce la’d afterwards. But he took the Pains to hear what every one of them had toi say apart, and found their Tessimonies agreed so exiifilly with each other, that it was demonstrable their'words were diffated by Truth.
those two niaterial Witnesses which he thought proper to take with him, Settled their Affairs, as well as 'Juggan., in order for their Journey; but during the Time the Preparations they had to make took up, the before mention’d Emissiiries of the Count de Angiii were constantly after they spared neither
promifes.nor Threats to engage her to go with them and make Oath, that ssie knew iof no Son that the Baron de Altamont ever bad by his Lady, and that the Person who was call’d the Chevalier James was born of her own Body; but (he remain’d unmoved wkh ail they could say to her, any farther than to be Sometimes in most terrible Frights of their doing lier Some Mischief, and would never stir out aster it grew dark nor go alone in any unfrequented Place.
The. Count de Anglia was of that particular chara(^er, that he never took it into his Head to undertake anything, but he concluded it done. Having put amico*undet Confinement, as T have already said, and sent Persons over in order to corrupt the Honesty of Juggan, he look’d on the Thing as completed, and. had the fody to tell all his. Acquaintance, that,
be
xjnfortunate Hitng 'Nobleman, i j
he Should Soon prove the Pretender (for So in Derision he called the Chevalier ‘james) an Impossure; for he had a Woman who would Swear he was her own Son. He judged of others by his own bad Heart, and doubted not but the Offers he had caused to be inadeto her would bring her easily into his Party. This Security heighten’d his Mortification when he received Letters from those Agents he had employ’d for that Purpose, with an account of the ill success they had met with, and also that Amico was there, very busy in finding Witnesses, and that hestad frequent meetings for the Interess of the Chevalier James with several of the Chief of that Province.
Our titular Count went now roaring about like a mad Bull, exclaiming against Amico, inventing Tvdillions of Falsehoods to blacken his Character, and threatening' all who efpoufed’ the Cause of the Chevalier with the severest pu’iiifhments; but what did this Rage and Malice avail! it served to render him the Contempt of those of his own, and the Detestation of all Degrees; for whether he had, or bad not, any real Right to the Dignity he possessed, he soa’ll became it, that none except those whose Penury, or natural Depravity of xvlan ncrs, made them his Depeiideuts, or Companions, but would have Teen hirn fall without Pity. ■ ■■'.
This, however, his Vanity kept him from forefeerng, and the good Opinion he had of his 'Person and Parts made him take that common Complaisance, which the Rank which he at present held in a manner enforced from
the
3 8-3 M E MO I R s of aa
the World, for a real Liking and good wili towards him; and this very self fufficiency and Conceit occasioned him very frequently to do things, which instead of creating an Esteem only Served to render him more ridiculous, — In A word, he was too much in Extremes, and inade use of Such Hyperboljes in his Ex -- prestions as destroy’d all the Credit he attempts ed to, gain. Thus in endeavouring to blacken the Character of Arnica he exposed his own, ' by uttering Falstioods of that Gentleman, So very palpable and absurd, that the most ordi miry Capacity could not be iinposed on by them: i3ut the loss of a person whose Friend snip had in many refpecsts been very Serviceable so him, and the Apprehenssons how much the contrary his prestut Enmity might prove in a Circumstance on which no less than his M depended, was not the only Misfortune which made him fufer in his Mind Some part of that Anxiety which ought to be one of the gone stquenees of Crimes like his; and which, had it proceeded from Remorse, as it did fronj Rage and Difappointmenr, would have deserved its Share of Compassion.
A little before the iinexpeded Arrival of the Chevalier 'jamesfbqm^ high in Spirits, and I'xulting within himself that he had So easily got rid of one Wi and buried another, ha began to think of getting a third, whose Fortune might repair those Damages which ineff iant Lawsuits and private Debaucheries had done to his Estate.
Arabella the Daughter of a wealthy mer ehant lately deeeafed, was the Lady be ssx’d* ■. i ' his
Vnfortutiate Toiin  189
his Eyes upon for this happy Purpose- -- --
was very lovely, had an unblemifh’d re putaddn, and what, far outweigh’d in the Balance of his Opinion all her other charms was the Millrefs of a large Fortune in her own Polldfion. — — As she had been kept extremely dole during her father’s Life, and was heiteif of a Temper too reserved to See ihuch Company, he had^he more Hope that the amorous Pranks he had. been guilty of had not reached her Ears, as they had done those brsome others who on that Score had rejected his Addresses. This made him So Secure of gaining her, that before he had even mention’d a avord of his Intentions to her, or even been in her Company, he began to calculate the Use he would make of her Fortune, the Expense this Addition to his Family would be to him, and the frugal Manner in which he
would oblige her to live. -- Having found
means to be introduced to her Acquaintance, he soon declared his Pretenssons; and because Disparity of Years Should be no Bar to his de ligns, he assumed all the Gaity, or to give it a more proper Name, all the p'oppilhness of Youth in his Air and Dress, and made his Court with the Passion and Vigour of a Lover of twenty-one, tho’ he washhen turn’d of fifty-five. But Arabella was far from being enchanted either with his Person or Behaviour: The oned.no^ not ugly, had nothing in itagreeable toiler Fancy; and in thefne perceived Such an Inconfissency, as she had too much good Sense not to laugh at rather than approve. His Quality and the Rank he could give her in
the
i'93 M E M 0 I R s ^
the World were Things however not to be despifed, and had (he not heard Some Rumours concerning both the Legality of his Title and Pretension, his possible the rest might have •been more tolerable to her.
So ssrong is the Dessre of Precedency in that Sex, chat it often gets the better even of Love — many a Woman has rejedied the Man she liked and for the Sake of two shore Horses in her (ioach given herself to one she hated, — — Many a one to appear with greater Splendour in the Day,, has facrissced the Night to dif eales and old age.
Arabella however was not of this Class, 'and had perhaps as Small a Share of Vanity as any of her Age and Sex, but yet enough not to be offended at the Eclat of being Solicited 'in Marriage by a Man of the Count de Anglid^ Quality; and to this alone muss be imputed the Encouragement she gave his Vissts; for after a while, ij^eing better acquainted than he imagined with "his Character, she only waited a proper Opportunity to dismiss him in a P'ashion thacwould be moss mortifying to him.
As he was one Day more importunate with her to ssx the Moment of his Happiness, (he very gravely told him, that she could think of no such Thing without the Approbation of her Guardians; For tho’ by her father’s Will she was lest foie Missrefs of herself and the Fortune he thought fit to bestow on her, and they had no Power either to compel or restrain her Inclinations, yet she knew them to be such wise and honest Men, that she was resolved to engage in no material Affair, much left in that
on
   19, i
on which the happiness or. misery of her whole furure Life depended, without having previ
guliy consulted them. -- -- -- ‘therefore.^ added
ilie, if your Lordship thinks fit to communicate your Intentions in my favour to them and to .my Mother to whom I owe that Regard, their judgement fid all be the Standard and the Rule of mine,
. Anybody as well as he might indeed have taken this for a conditional gonsent, and not fuppbfing they could possibly be ignorant of his addrdses to her, thought she had already prepared them, and that now he had no more, todo than to declare himseli' to them to ob 'taih that Sandtion, which she imagined she in rilled on only for the sake of Form, and to Save (he Blushes it would have coss her mo deiiy to bellow herself on him of her own Accord. With this Opinion he had no reason to make any Hesstation in complying with what she Said; So readily told her that he would wait immediately on them. No., my ford., reply’d she, with an Air of the greatest llesped, / cannot suffer you to defeendfu much
beneath your Dignity asto go to them — -/
will invite them to dine here tfo rnorrow., and ■ afterward take an Opportunity of leaving you together to difeourfe on the Affair.
This Constderarion in her was So perfeduy 'calculated to flatter his Pride, that he past the Night in the most assured Ei'pedlation of hav iiig the possession of a fine Woman and a great Fortune confirmed to him the next Day.;;
Accordingly he went the next Day with all the Ghearfulnefs of a Bridegroom : He
found
i f 2 '
found her Mother and the Gentleman niehad mentioned already there: A very elegant Eti ceftainment Was prepared, after w’hidv Hie Withdrew’, as (lie had told him, and he begaa to declare his Preteniions in a formal Speech be had ssudied for that Purpose.
They Siisscred him to go on without olser ing to interrupt him; but by their Gestures atleded to be very much surprised at what they heard; and when they found he has con eluded all he had to deliver on that Subjest, If I did not knovj.^ Said the old Lady, that ray Daughter had too much Duty and Affection for me.y as well as Regard for these experienced Friends of her Father to offer to impose upon us I should think all your lordjhip has been saying was a Contrivance between you to make yourselves D'merfton at our Expense. Slow ma dam., cry’d the Count, more astonished at her Words than she had pretended to be at his. Do you imagine I would presume to rally in this
Company., and on such a kubjefc? -- Has the
charming Arabella never made you acquainted with the honourable Faffion / have for her \ No really, my Lord, answered she, with a disdainful Sofs of her Head, and am sorry to find there is anything serious in what you have been entertaining us with', for thd I know your lord jhip is a Peer of two Kingdoms, I can scarce believe it probable you have Interest in either M bring Bigamy into a Law, without which it is impojfible for you to have honourable Paf fim for my Daughter.
Shis was Sufficient to malve the Count i'liow they had Some Intelligence concerning
/inadea,
 g'nohlman. 193
dnadea.^ on which, with his usual Artifice, he began to couf'cfs himself guilty of a Small Crime, in order ro Seem innocent of a greater T— — Said he was Sorry indeed to remember, that there was a certain Lady whose Reputation had Suffered on his Account; but that the Scandal happened merely through her own Inadvertency inputting too much in the Power of a Confident, by whose Treachery the Affair between them had got air; bat made a thousand Asseverations chat he had no farther Concern with the Lady, whom he supposed they might have heard Some mention of, and that there never was the leass Intentions of ■ Marriage on either Side.
When, he had given over Speaking, one of the Guardians to Arabella pulled Some Papers out of his Pocket, and ptefenting one of them to the Count, See there, my Lord, Said he, an Exeuje for our Credulity and wonder Kop. after this, that we should believe you married to a Lady you. took fueh uncommon Methods to obtain.
Not all the count’s Audacity could keep him from changing Countenance at the sight of this Paper, wtich he presently found was a Copy of the Affidavit that Simplicius had eraded from him before he would consent to his daughter’s Marriage, with the Name of the Magissrate before whom he had made it. Much ado had he to refrain from tearing it before the Faces of those who produced it as a witness against him; but hoping still to recover his (Credit with them, he only threw it from him with an Air of Contempr, cried K it
194 Memoirs of ail
it vasa vile Piece of Forgery — that a»adea herself would clear him of it; and had the etsrontery to say he would write to her for that Purpose, and they should Soon be conr vinccd of the Truth.
Tour ljordjhip Pall not need he at that pains re.ply’d the other coldly, 1 have here a Letter from a ri^ht Reverend Prelate., with one in flofed to him from the Lady herself tehiiffng
what part she has in yoti -- jo that ah' jur
iker Inquiry would only be loss of Time /
think this is a fujfieient Conviction. With these Words he took out two aether Papers, and. read as follows:
fbe bishopt Letter.
S I R,
AS you dtfire me to acquaint you with what I have heard concerning the Marriage of the Count de Anglia with a Lady of this (iity,
I conclude you have Some particular Reafcns for this Inquiry, and therefore take upon me to altiire you he was lawfully married to the Daughter of a rich Merchant, called Simplicius about fifteen Years fince the Ceremony
was publiddy performed, Several of my {■'"riends were present; and he not only acknow'iedgcd her as his Wife toall the World, but file also took her Place at Court as such-
-- -- -- have always lived together, have
Several Children, and he was looked upon as a good Husband, ’till a vile Woman Educed his Affedlicns; after which he used her very
iilj
 g Noble mm. 195
ill, and at length totally abandoned her
has been credibly reported here, that he had
another Wist in your Country -- -- that you
are the less Judge of but I am certain he has one here — I have juss received a Letter Sroni her, whidi I send for your further Information; and shall be glad it rnay be of service to you or any of your Friends, and am.
Tours., c.
'IA Coimtefs DE Anglia’^ Letter to the Bifiop.
My Lord,
'nhothing but Afflidlioiis Such as mine, which are Sure the greatest ever^womati felt, can apologise for the repeated Troubles I give you; but as your Lordship vouchsafed to interfere So far in my niihappy Affair, as to constrain my unjust Lord to allow a Maintenance for our Children, 1 cannot help acquainting your Lordship, that it is So ill paid that I am ill continual Apprehenstons for the Usage they may receive on that account from the People they are with, who 1 find are extremely Necessitous -- Tho’ 1 am denied the Privilege
of Seeing them, a Cruelty Sure unprecedented to a virtuous Wife and tender Mother, as I have ever been, I make it my buss ness to inquire daily how they are; and yes terday my' Brother brought me this unwelcome Intelligence 1 am persuaded to ap k i peal
196 M E M o I R s ^
pea! to the Legislature; but if it (hold be true that he has a prior Wife, the certainty of which I cannot learn, I fear 1 flrould be able to get but little Juilice either for mystlf or Children -- -- -- I once more take the liberty to
entreat your lorddiip’s Advice, whether to apply to a Court of Judicature here, or wait till one above, who bell knows my Wrongs and the Miseries 1 fuluin, shall think fit to right me, or revenge niy Cause. I have the Honour to be,
m^iih all Submijfion and Veneration,
your Lordship's mojl unfortunate Servant, A. DE Angiia.
To conceive what Confolion, what dif trasion this Count felt at So full a detechon of his Crimes, one muss be guilty of Some part of them, so can only judge by his Behaviour that it was in proportion to the Cause—
— -- -- — (lamped -- -- -- he raved, cried it was
a Plot upon him -- -- -- denied everything; but
in so wild a manner, and mingled wdth such horrid Gurfes and Imprecations, as made the good Mother of Arabella repent of having joined in taking this Method of puttuig him to shame— — Gentlemen ddired he would be more moderate in his Expressions, since it wa's in vain for him to think they were to be deceived by anything he could say; and then told him, that in Atonement for the ruinous
ijnfortumte Totin  197
'OHS Design he had on Arabella., they flionld expeist ■ he would not only forbear ever (peaking to her more, but also never mention her Name as a Per (on he had ever been acquaintr ed -- -- -- To this he reply’d, That it was beneath
him ever to Speak or think of any Of them; and with these Words, accompanied ■with a Look full of Fury and Malice, he flhilg out of the Room, leaving them to pass what Animadvernoiis they pleased oil his Behaviour.
This Disappointment, the Motives which occtilioned it, and the Shame, as well as the nell gonsequences he had to apprehend from So ptahi a Discovery of Things he had imagined altogether unknown in that Kingdom, made a persedl Hdl within his posom; for to what ' eise can be compared So horrible a Mixture oci, unavailing Rage — enervate Malice ^ -- ^sliarhe — Terror and despair!
In a happy reverse of all this did the true Count cle Anglia, pafs his Days in the absence of Amico : He knew his cause Wa good, and had nothing to fear frolii anything that Worthy Friend Should be able to discover concerning it — -- -- The Dessre he .had of improving
his Mind, having engaged the other before his Departrue to provide him Perfqns proper to inssrudi: him in Some of thole Ac ‘ complifliments, it was necessary for a Person of his Rank not to he ignorant of; he kept extremely close to his Studies, and Seldom went abroad, when he didst was in Company of a Gentleman named mucarioy Whom Arnico had brought him acquainted with, and K 3 who
198 M E M O I R s ^
who being possess of all those Qualities the Chevalier was ambitious of attaining, render’d his Conversation a kind of a School for him, ssnce there were few things he wanted to know that the other was not capable of inforniing hijn of As Theatrical Entertainments arc not only the moss elegant Diversson, but also if cn well chosen Subjeffs, and wrote with Sph rit, are very pretty Improvements to thole, wh(>, like the Chevalier, had hcen deprivedof greater, Macario would sometimes take him with him to the Playhoule; but then healways ssrss consulted the Bills, and never suffer’d him to be a Speffator of aiiy loose or idle Scenes; Hiiiorical steprefentations were thofehe look’d upon as ssittst for him, .and he always took care to point out to him those Places where the Poet had cither adhered to the Truth of Fads cr swerved from it, the better to Mlussrate his Piece : And this Caution fliew’d the good Sense of him that gave it, since without being perfectly well read in the Hissory itself, one might form a wrong Judgement of pass Transactions, or at leass be confounded in our Ideas of them by the real and the fabulous being thus blended.
The Chevalier was very much pleased with many of these Performances, but infinitely more at the auguss Assemblies he beheld at Court, and in the Heart of the Capital 011 foine particular Days: The Assonissiment which Objects so new and so dazzling at first excited in him wearing off by Degrees, he considered that all this exterior Magnificence ought only to dissinguifh an interior Worth; and therefore
ijnforhmate Toun  19^
fore fersons thus ornamented, stould make it their whole Study to excel in wisdoin and Virtue those of whom they had the Advantage in Appearance; and was forty to find by Some Accounts, that the Great did not always think it a Duty incumbent on them to be equally Good. He often express himself iri this manner to macafioy who charm’d with Sentiments So truly noble, So rare to be found even among those who make the moss fair Professions, and So little to be expected in a Person train’d up in that unhappy way the Chevalier had been, conceived Such an Affediion for him as we do not often meet wdth between those nearess in Blood.
In this agreeable and laudable Fvlixture of Study and innocent amusement, we will leave fora while the principalsubjed' of our Hissory and return to Altamont^ where the generous Amico was labouring for his Friend, and exposing himself to Dangers he had not apprehended, and which it was with infinite difn culty he escaped
• Set out with ‘^uggan drt\di two othef Witnesses for the next seaport, but the Wind not being favourable they were obliged to wait there for Some Days; in which Time, Some Persons whom ssie had not thought of mentioning to mi CO f hearing on what Account he had taken that Journey, came and voluntarily offered their Deposstions; Soineofwhich he contented himself with taking before a ma gissrate, and others he found So very material, that it would be necessary those that made them ftould appear in Person; which they ^ were K 4 ready
200 Memoirs ^ Fn
ready to do, and accordingly agreed to be of his Company. Ass they had now to do was to pray Kt a Wind, which Hill continued a very to their Impatience, and there was not the lead Appearance of a Change when Amn'o received this Letter by the poll
Lo Mojijicur Am I CO.
SIB.,
THE Regard you iliev^ for Truth and Judice in erpoufing the cause of an un fortunare' Nobleman, makes it the Duty of ass honest Men to wioi well to your Endeavours and give you all possible Airifiance, - and at the same time renders you too formidable to the Enemies to Right, not to subject you to
all their wicked Mrdice can contrive. -- --
Providence has just now, by the strangest Chance in the World, discovered to me that there is a Scheme laid to put you and the Witnesses you have with you under Confinement, I know not on what Pretence; but imagine, that as you area Stranger where you are, it may be of ill Consequence, at least it would be a Delay of the Business you are at present engaged in, so give you this Advice that you may take what Measures you fiiall judge most proper to frustrate thisdessgn. -- As I am not
certain this will reach your Hand, you’ss pardon my not fubferibing my Name, but be Satisfied with knowing that it comes from one who wisties well to the Real Heir oiaitanion^ and is,
Tottr fine ere Friend.
his
vnforfunata toiinglaobteman, 20'r
This Information had So rfitidi Probability of Troth in it, that Amico thought he Hiould be to blame if he neglected ic; and therefore got a Boat atid. removed With his Witnesses by Night froili that Town to ahothtr, about eight Miles down the River, where the Bribe had agreed with for their Passage was to take them tip. But all the Secrecy and Ihe* caution he made nse of iri thiis Affiiir was in vain: those Who had form’d the Plot against him, arrived at the Place he had quitted the next Morning after, and Soon got Intelligeiice not Only of his Departure, biit also w’here he was gone, and immediately pursued him. Fiodirig they had not been deceived in the Db rediioris given them, they gave ail Information to the Governor of the Fort, that he was corns there to enlist Men for foreign Service;, on •which be was taken into Custody with two of the Witnesses, the others happening at the Time he was Seized to be walking to vievy the Town, and hearing What had happened, conceal’d tliemfclves till they llioutd know the iivent.
He was riot a prisoncr above two or three Hours before his Pockets being searched and his Papers examin’d, the Governor found he was not employ’d on any military Assairs. — Minutes of Family transadstons — asida
vits of a birth a Death,. bc— — the
cauiicnary Letter Just inferred, and some others on his own private Idulinefs, being sussigient Teilimonies of his innocence in what he was accafed of, he was let at Liberty, as well as those taken with him. Judging by this of ' K 5 what
202 Mem o I r s vf aii
what those Agents, of one who was a Foe to all goodness, were capable of doing, he thought ic not Safe to continue in a Place where they were; less finding theinselves frussrated ill this Design, they Should attempt Some other mischiet againss him, So removed from thence in the misst private maimer he could to a little Village on the Seacoast, where he had not been many Hours, before the Ship Arrived, and dropped Anchor in order to take in Some Parcels appointed to be left there.
Here he acquainted the Captain of the Brig ’with the Danger he was in, and told him he would make him a present of twenty Crowns over and above what he was to pay for his Passage and those that were with him, if he would fail the next Morning and keep to Sea till they could make their Passage. This he readily agreed to, and all the Witnesses, to the number of eight online, were put on board. Amico did not embark wsststthem for this Reason; A Friend having heard of the clandestine Practises against him, came down in his own 13oat on purpose to advise him of if, and it was judged more Safe for him to go in that very boat the same Night, to the Mouth of the River, and there wait for the Ship,, which when once under Sail would Soon overtake them, than to go on board her at that place.
This Expedient, tho’ it preserved him from ■<?ne Danger, plunged him into another — — the Wind immediately (lifted— — — gathering Clouds gave Some Frefages of an approaching
Storm -- -- the Captain of the Brig found it
irnpofiible to wtigh Anchor, and the generous
Amiio
jjnfohwiate Young Mohlemmi. 20j
Arnica with his Friend Sound themselres on a very troubled Sea in a Smsll Boat, and no Appearance of any better Accommodation: But Heaven was too just to Suffer them to periffi in thexlause of Virtue; juss as they were beginning to despair of any Relief, they Saw at Some distance a Small Bark standing out to Sea, to which they made up with all their Might, and having hail’d her, sound fly was bound to the Same Kingdom, tho’ a different Port than Arnica designed for, So went immediately on board her. His Friend could not be prevail’d onto accompany him; for being accustom’d to the Sea; and the Wind which hinder’d the jbr from coming our, Sxvouring his Return, he went back, glad that the Enterprise be had advi.std had Succeeded So well.
Amico arrived Safe, but having his Heart on the Witnesses he had left on board the Brig, made what haste he could by Land to the Place he hoped to meet them, and was there eight.
Days before the Vessel came in he was
standing on the Beach when he saw the longi boat thrown out, and Several Sailors on board' it make all the way they could to Shore; on their landing, one of them Seeing him, made a Sign for him to retreat; at which, tho’ greatly amazed, he drew back Some Paces; the Fellow went towards him, but still waved his Hand for him to go yet farther; which he did, till he came to a little Turning; the other, then coming up to him, Said, Sir, my Captain chary^ed me to send tvbere you were lodged and desire you to keep close, jor tue have Meti on hoard th.it he is afraid have no good Intenthns
toward
204   ' "
toward you. Poor Amico wlis a little fur prixed, as thinking he was not like to be iafe anywhere ^ but not So much, as to hinder hiift from inquiring after those he had left in the Ship : The Sailor told him they were all w'dl, but thought it proper to Iky on board either till Night or till those persons were gone; but desired he would appoint where they fiiould come to him. Araico then gave him Direitions where to conduct thein on their landing, and Went immediately to his Inn, and gave Orders, that if any persons, but Such as he described, inquired for him, to lay, be had been there:, but was gone.
By this means he avoided whatever Mischief was intended for him, as Some there was ’t's evident. thecaptain afterward inform’d him, that just as he was ready to sail twm Men came
on board as Passengers -- that they had been
very inquisitive after a Person they told him they expected to have found there, and seem’d
much Surprixed at tste disappointment 'that *
they had been extremely troublesome to the Witnesses during the whole Voyage, and pretended to rally them on the reasons of their
taking it -- -- and that he had been obliged to
make them keep in their Cabbins in order to preserve Peace in the. Ship. I'his was fulb cient to convince he was not yet out of, Dmger; he was glad however he had once iiiore got his Witnesses with him, and thinking a long stay in the Place he now was, would j render it impossible for him to avoid the wicked Contrivances of his Enemies, he hired • horses for four of his People, and a Coach
and li, X
   zog
and lix for himself, Inggan, ^ and two others, and fet out very late at Night for the Capital, where in three days they arrived, having tra vel’d through by roads, and Such as none xvould imagine they could have passed in a whed csitiage.
Amko Soon, after had reason to believe the Caution he had taken was not unocceffary nor on a vain surmise, for he received various Informations that he had been waylaid in three cifferent Roads, his person and the Coinpany he had with him described at all the Inns, and the moss particular Inquiry made after them, by persons who were afterwards Seen at the Count de Anglids., and who it was known; were Supported at his Expense.
But the toiifome and dangerous Task his Honessy had engaged him in thus happily ended, he thought himself well rewarded for it by the Pleafute he took in the meeting of the Chevalier with those Ferfons he had brought
from Altamont -- -- -- juggan in particular was
fometiines ready to throw herself about his Neck and embrace him as her dear fosser child
-- -- -- at others to fall at his Feet and tefiify
the Submission due to the Son of her lord and Patron — ?Yet in the midst of theretranfports, which the first Sight of him inspired, ssiecry’d out to those who acc: .mpany’d her, — — — Bold let me he well assured 1 am not imposed gone my fed. nor Kali impose on other i— — Such., His certain to a soi of the Bar on ond Barenefs de Vltamont, hut hovj can I. ths Gentleman is that noble Babel Can I remember his Face info tong a Ytme., and such d fhffcrane of Age No and if / fhonld pretend
to
2o6 Me uoik^ of ai
to itt you might have Reason to call my Integrity
in quejiion -- but.^ Neighbours, you have often
heard me fay., that that Infant was born with a peculiar Mark, which if this Gentleman can Pew, then I willfuffer Death rather than deny him for the 0/altamont, born of the ba ronefs, and the same whom all of you have fecn athoufand Times both at my Breast and in bis mother’s Arms.
The Chevalier on hearing these Words, im mediatly convinced her that Sne had not been deceived, by uncovering that Part of his Body where Nature hadiniprinted this happy Token, as preordain’d to baffle all the wicked Plots the Art of Man could Sorm againo: him.
This was Sufficient to make the good Nnrie and every one prcsent melt into Tears of Joy, and bless the Divine goodncss, who by Means least taken notice of, oft brings the greatclt Events to Perfection, and disappoints all human Efforts to the contrary.
All the Contrivances form’d to render/i«2/vo’s honest Endeavours fruitless being thus happily disappointed, and as much ascertain’d as human Evidence could make him, that the Claim of the Chevalier James was no Chimaera; he consulted with Some of the most able of the long Robe, and proper Measures were presently taken for that injur’d Nobleman to assert his Birthright, which few, if any, now queftion’d; but as Forms of Law must be observed, an absolute Decision could not be Soon expesed.
Indeed whoever confiders these Memoirs with any Attention, will find thro’ the whole course of them, that nothing Served more to
confirm
Vnfortimate Toung nome^nan. 207
confirm the Validity of the Chevalier James Glaim, than the verymeafures qomm Richard
took to dessroy it -- First, would any Man
of Quality, nay, any private Gentleman, who knew himself the lawful poffelsor of an Essate, sit tamely down, while another pretended to a better Title, and even commenced a frocess again IS him for an unjust Detainer of his Right?
Secondly, If there was nothing he dreaded the Discovery of, why did he take such Pains to prevent the Truth being search’d into? — Why were such dark and unwarrantable Methods pot in practice to prevent Amico from going 10 dltamortl -- -- Why wore Temptations
used to corrupt the Integrity of Some? — Why Dangers menaced, ' -- -- -- nay, even Mischiefs
undertaken, to deter others from re; vcaling what they knew?
No, this would never have been the Cafe if Count Richard had not been conscious the Ways by which he assumed the Dignities he enjoy’d were Such as would not bear the
Light. -- None ever could accuse him cither
of Indolence or tameness where his Interest Was concern’d, and whoever had, without the strongest Foundation, laid any Claim even to the least part of what he was in pof fution of, would have Soon found thefeverest
Effedh of his Resentment— — -- -- -- then
Would he have done to find the whole invaded — would he not on the first notice of such a glaring Forgery havecaufed the Imposture to be fested — have forced him to produce Proofs of his pretended Wrongs, or made him fust’er
the
ost m.emolti.s of ttn
the Pmiilliment the Law inflids on Fraud and Calomny? Even guilty as he was, had not his Cunning in this material Point dtscitcd him, he might, by taking a Method quite different from what he did, have rcrceii’d hinifelf for a time, and kept thecensure of the World a while faspended — ■ •■■^ may, who knows but have deprived the injured Chevalier for ever of the Means of asserting his Birthright, by rendering him, a Stranger as he was, incapable of raissng either Friends 2ealous enough to espouse his Cause, or Money to carry it on.
But all feeing Heaven, who hates Injustice, would not Suffer that cruel usurper of another’s Right to proceed in a manner which might secure him the polsdsion, and for h S greater Punishment render’d him accessary to his own Shame and Confusion.
But now the Time arrived when our Chevalier was to experience disserent Inquietudes than what he yet had known — Such as he had before had no Idea of, and had only beheld the Effedfs of in others with Surprise. His dear Friend Macario having been a little indisposed, wlas ndvifed by his Physicians to go a little way out of Town as the bess Means for the re essablioiinent of his Health; This Advice he could not be prevaii’d.upon to take without the Chevalier would accompany him, and accordingly they went together to an extreme pleasmt Place about Seventeen Miles from the Capital. Fhey happen’d to be lodg’d juss dver againss a House, where, from Some or other of the Windows, or paliing in or our, they Taw everyday a young Lady whose Beauty
could
xjiifortunate toungisfobleman. cg
tonid nor but attraff their Admiration: To the moss regular and delicate Features in the World there was added Such a perfect Innocence as gave her a kind of anangelick sweetness— — would often cry out, ifhat a lovely Creaturepe is! but the (ihevalier had no Words to express the Sense he had of her
Charms -- -- his Heart, by having been So long
infenlible of the tender Passion, felt it now
with double Force -- he was all Confusson
when (heappear’d -- -- all Sadness when (he was
withdrawn — his Eyes were continually attach’d to the Place where he might hope to see her, and yet when (he was there durst Scarce look up to her— — great is the Awe which Love when it is real, inspires, that indeed it may be Said to be the only Charadteristick Which distingusshes the feigned from the jin cere.
Macario Was a Man of (aaiety, and tho’ far from being a Libertine, had often felt the Pains and Pleasures of that Passion: He Soon difeo vered the Effects this young lady’s Beauty had on the Chevalier, and by a little rallying him on his new Sentiments, first made him sensible himself of the Nature of them — he now knew and confessed he loved, and that it was impossible for him to live without the Hope of one day being in possession of that adorable Maid. Macario was a little troubled to find his Passion of a more serious Nature than he had imagined, because - he was ignorant of the Condition of the Lady, it was easy for him to perceive she was not of a i3irth suitable to that of her Lover. This he
Some
210 m'e.hioirs of an
Sometimes reinonssrated to him, but in vain; for, as the Poet says,
Loys either finds eqmuiy or malt it.
Everything Seemed to conspire to indulge his Inclinations, Some Relations of the young Indy having heard his Story, were delirons of being acquainted with a person who had experienced inch strange Adventures; He was invited with Macario to one of their housts: he Object of his Affections was there: His Misfortunes had inspired her with a generous Pity, and that prepossession made her treat him with more Sofrnefs than (he was accustomed
tq use towards Strangers -- -- -- The obliging
Manner in which (he behaved, both heightened and flattered his Passion; and (he found some thing in his perfon^and Deportment, that very much added to the Concern Ihc before had
for him -- -- -- -- This Interview made him So
wholly hers, that from thenceforward be took 110 other Pleasure than in meditating on her Perfedions; and (he became so interested for him, that (he could form no Wilh but that of feeing him as happy as flic thought he deserved
to be -- Being now acquainted, whenever
they met, as frequently they did by accident, they walked together and entered into Conversations which showed they were far from indifferent to each other, yet without any Declaration of Love on either Side, hill one Day talking of the Wrongs had been done him, the fair Object of the chevalier’s A (fed ion Lid to him, Indeed I shall be ap
tt
Vnfortunrtie Tcting noblemda. 2 11
to tuen free thivker., a7fd impute all the accl de'fits of thii ij'vrui ti Chance, if Merit fncb as yours Should have ary thing lejt to vjifij for. Ah, Madam, answ’cr’el he, with a deep Sigh, you know not, perhaps, the Fxtent cf my Wipes, and zuheti you do. 1 fear, trill think them too presuming to deserve Success. She was yonng and altogetlier unexperienced in Love, yet the Tone of his Voice in uttering there Words, and the Look he gave her at the Same time made her not str fromgneff ing what was meant by them, and brought a modest Bluili into her Face. They were both silent for Some Moments, he not daring to explain himfdf more fu?iy, nor she to desire it; and when they renewed theconver sation it was on a different liopick — — So
fearful is Love -- -- -- So bashful is Virginity,
that neither have the Courage to reveal, what each languilhes to make known.
. The Chevalier however after this became Somewhat more bold, and by degrees declared to her, that, in spite of the great Views he now was in pur Suit of, fiis alone engrossed his whole Attention — — that all his expesed Grandeur would be nothing to him without ffe consented to (hare it with him; and that all the Miseries he had fussained in Slavery, had never given him half those Pangs he now endured in the Apprehensions that his Paffioii Was not acceptable to her. There profef fions, which it was easy for her to perceive iwere di<stated by the Heart, and accompanied with the ffridless Honour and true Respect, being, often repeated, and every time with greater
Ardour
212
Ardour than before, at length obtained from her this confeltion, That tho’ the Addrelles of a pcr(bn of his Rank to one of hers was too great an Advantage to be refused, yet sho clfeenied him infinitely more on the account of his Merit than Quality, and all the comphance he received from her, he muss believe himself indebted for chiefly to them. In fine, as their Love w’as mutual, So a small Space of Time brought on mutual Declarations, ’till neither attempted to dilguise any part of that tender nefs they were equally inspired with, nor to give each other all the Tessimonies of it that Virtue and liinocence would admit.
It cannot be doubted but the Friends and Relations of this young Beauty were highly stitisfied with the Offers made to her by the Chevalier; but Amico to whom Maeario imparted by Letter all that passed, was not fu well pleased: He thought the Chevalier should wait for the Recovery of his birthright before he entertained any Thoughts of Marriage, and came down into the Country on purpose to dissuade him from a Step which to him Seemed imprudent'■■ ■but to what use are all the Arguments that Reason can Suggefl againss a Passion stich as filled the Breast of this youn  He lissened to all that both Amico and Maeario alleged. Could not deny the Justice Of what they Sard, but was
not to be gained over by k -- -- to think of
delaying his happiness was a kind of Death
to him -- -- he knew not what Accidents might
intervene to rob him for ever of it; and theft, Said he, ^ let who will take the Coronets of Anglia

Vnforhinate Toiing No hie jn an. 213
glia and auamont: — — The recovery of wy btrth righi 'Without her., woubd only serve to make me more confpicuoujly wretched,.
With Such like passionate exprelsioiis did he sslence these Gentlemens Remonssrances; and as they had not the least Objedb'on to make to the young lady’s, Person, Character or Ac .coinplifhments, which were Such as might become the highest Rank in Life, they ceas’d opposing his Inclinations, and Amico return’d not to the Capital till he had Seen a Marriage so leinni^ed, in which Hymen con’d justly boast of joining those Hands whose Hearts were clol'dy united. After wdn’ch that generous Friend lest the happy Pair at the Houle of one who was a near Relation of the Bride, and accompany d by Macario., came back in order to prosecute what he had So wtii begun.
The Chevalier now thought himself repaid by Heaven for all the hardoiips he had undergone : So Serene was his Mind, So perfect: his Contentment, that he Scarce gave a Moment to the thoughts of recovering his birth rght; and when he did, it was only for the sake of his dear Wife. He found in her all those Virtues, for the reward of which, Dignity was originally instituted, and which alone can render it either benesscial or amiable to Mankind— — not in the bla2e of jewels, the Splendid Equipage, the number of Attendants, or the Pomp of Titles, that true great nefs confiits, but in the well executing the Power of doing Good, in being faithful Stewards of the Treasures Pleaven thinks fit to deposste in their Elands — in festiiig Examples
of
214
of Hospitality and benevolence, and in treating their Inferiors in the Same manner they' would wish to be treated themselves if in their Place. How few, alas! coulider this!
-- -- How apt are we all to keep opr Eyes
continually bent upwards, envying and aiming (ill at a Superior Sphere, without once deigning to look down on that beneath us; much less examine the Worth it may contain.
All these Reflections coming frequently into the chevalier’s Mind, he cou’d not help Sometimes entertaining his fair Companion with them, and the answers fly made testifying how sincerely her thoughts agreed with his, made him see (he wmuld no kis adorn by the Beauties of her Mind, than by those of her Person, that high Station he hop’d Soon to place her in.
Jt was in a Felicity which might make the grearess Enemies to Marriage, vvioi to partake the Snne that this amiable Pair pass Several Months : Equally loving and beloved, they were all the World to one another; and when at any time they were apart, engaged iri different Companies, it was but to return with greater Ardour to each other’s Arms, and to relate with Pleasure all the little Accidents which had passed during their Separation; for where there is a true Affection, nothing is a Secret, and the moss minute Adventure of the darling Object becomes i matter of Importance.
They had stheir Visitors, their Circle too not composed of Flatterers and Sycophaiifsi
Such
   21 g
Such as usually haunt the drawing Rooms of persons in Power, but plain and honest Hearts, who came to congratulate their pre stnt happiness, and Sincerely widi’d to see iheh Virtues stiine in a higher Sphere.
The Manner in which they now lived, had indeed To much Sweetness and Tranquillity in it, that had nqt the Chevalier believed it a Duty incumbent on him to assert those Rights given him by God and Nature, he wou’d icarcely have wished to exchange it for the iioify Splendour, and continual Hurry which he Saw at the Houses of those of his own Rank.,, f le often said that in spite of all the Hardships he had endured, he had more con tsitpt than Vengeance for his cruel Uncle, Slice he must certainly be a Man of a very weak Judgement, who cou’d forego his Peace of Mind, break through all Laws, and even throw off Humanity merely for the sake of acquiring the Reputation of being what he was not, and enjoying what he in reality wanted nor, and might have been infinitely more happy without. Not that the Chevalier w’as without Ambition, or was thatcoolstoick some who heard him speak in this manner imagined, but his Ambition conliiud in perforitiing well the Part he was born to ai: in the World, and had too much laudable Priderotto delpifc any Aiaa who airuin’d the Charadier of another; III what he thought his own Province, no body exerted themselves wish more Vigour, or teffified a greater (hare of Spirit; and as he was careful not to give the least Offence, folie was not of a Temper to receive it tarr.ely.
With
i. meivioirs of an
With how much satissadion cou’d I dwell upon this Scene of bliss, this Interval, as one may call it, from those Calamities the Chevalier yumes was preordained to Suffer! But it vas alas! too ffort, and afforded too lutle Variety of Adventures to take up much time in the Description of; the drcadful Purport of his Viffon was not yet fulfilled; but now his Sun of Joy at once withdrew -- -- the gathered
Cloud, charg’d with unnumbered Woes, was ready to burst upon him; and fate’s worst Terrors bung fuspended o’er his Head
-- -- Dangers he least foresaw or apprehended,
encompassed him -- -- What all the Malice of
his Enemies could not bring about, a cruel Chance accomplifiied, affording Matter of Rejoicing to them; Cjrief and Confusion to his Friends, and to himself the extremess an guiffi, Horror and Bitterness of Heart. Now did his malevolent Stars pour in full Catarasts their Venom down, and shed at once the Mischiefs they had so long threatened, and which Slavery, Imprisonment, and Fears of Death, were but iinperfedt Samples of. Since this had in it all in one, and the Addition of yet worse.
Among the Diverstons of the rural Life he now was in. Shooting might be accounted his favourite one. He frequently went out with Some or other of his Neighbours with him, and was seldom so unlucky as not to Spring ibme game.
One Day, mark’d out by Fate to be the most unfortunate of his whole Life, he went out alone, but happened afterward to meet a
persoii
   2ij.
person who lived near, and was game keeper to a Per Son of Condition to whom that Manor belong’d; as they were walking together and discourssng on ordinary Affiirs, they spy’d two Men tiliiing in a little River that ran through the next Meadow, wdiich not being allowable for them to do, the game keeper jump’d over the Style, and ran towards them, with an Intention to Seize their Net, as it was his Duty; the Chevalier followed and came up with him just as he had taken one of them by the Collar, who had the String on his Wrill, and refilling torcstgn it, there was feme struggle between them. The other Fellow, who, as it proved, was the Son of him who had the Net, Seeing the Chevalier advancing, and not doubting but he would alfist his Friend in taking it away, cut the String, and threw it into the River, then ran in himself, for the Water was very (hallow, and drag’d it to the other fide. This the. Game keeper perceived not, being engag’d with the Father, but the Chevalier that Instant coming, stooped hastily down to catch hold of; the Cords, that trailed on the Ground, in order to pull back the Net; but in that Action the Gun he had in his hand unhappily went off and shot the Father dead — All this was done at the same time, and in one fatal Moment.
Horror and Amazement, immediately feiz’d the Soul of the Chevalier — He saw the b'd ‘
low fall -- r he Report and Smoke that had
iltued from his Piece, which he had charg’d with Bullets, left >hira no room to doubt the L stal
2i8 Memoirs
fatal Accident -- All his Faculties recoisd
-- -- He stood like one transfix’d with Thunder, and no less incapable of Motion for a time, than him, whom that rnifehievous in giiie he intended only for his innocent Recreation had defifoyed.
The game keeper was almost as much alarm’d, and cry’d out, O God! how has
this happen’d! -- but then hearing the young
Fellow, who by this time was got on the other stde, call out to some Men that were pasting that way, that his Father was murder’d; and Seeing them about to cross the Stream, he took hold of the chevalier’s Arm, and roused him from the Lethargy he seem’d to be in, saying, Sir — Sir, the Man is dead — ife
Shall be purjded -- Let ‘hs endeavour to escape-
-- -- have.no time kfe. 0 where,
the Chevalier, where can 1 fly I -- Wretch
that I am — Where hide me jrom the Guilt of innocent Blood. However, feeing the other run, he run too, without even knowing that he did So, or whither he directed his Steps, till he came to the House of one who knew him well and no less loved k\vn — r ehatfe killed a Man, cry’d he, with a wi/dnefs in his Countenance, which too well assured the Persons he spoke to, that what he said was a
Truth. -- -- -- Let us conceal you. Sir, said they;
and presently led him to a retired Place which few People y; ent into, and there made him lie down.
The Game keeper in the mean time having much more presence of Mind in this Adventure, stead to a Place where be remained Safe, from
xinforturimte Toun  21-9
from 'all the pursuit that was. .afterwards made. those persons however, whom they saw coining from the other lide of the River, made no halie after them; for not knowing but there might yet be Life they first Scnu for a Surgeon, and it wa? fomedine before they got a Gonssable, and attempted any Search'; So that the Chevalier might have beeiu out of their Reach as well as the game keeper, had the Horror he was in at what had happened, given him the Power of refiedi ing what was bess to be done for his own safety. But So wholly was he taken up with this Misfortune, that he had not the least Thought of hiitiself, and if not in a manner ' forced into that private Room before mentioned, he had doubtless given no trouble to his pursuers, but waited their Arrival with that Fearlefnefs which real Innocence in ^
On a Certainty that the Man was dead, the Alarm was presently spread through the: Town, the Crowd gathered from all Quarters, and the House where the Chevalier was ' concealed, being one tstit he frequently used, it was the first they fearch’d : 7 he guiltless Delinquent was easily found; but in such a Condition as excited more Pity thaii refent ment in those who apprehended, him. tte closeness and darkness of the Place where he lay hid, heightening the Horrors of his Mind, had such an Effect over his Body, that he was faljen into a Fit : They put him into an e: ify Chair, and carried him into the open Air, which with the. help of other Remedies,
r,. L 2 brought
220
brought him to himself; but the first tisc he made of iiis recover’d Breath was a moll
heavy high -- -- -- then, 0! Said he, If any one
'amongy<)u is my Friend — -- have Compojfon on
vjhat I sees and kill me inflantly i desire
not to live ajter being accejfary to the Death of a Man who never offended me.
Though it was impossible for any one except the Son of the deceased, to know ex ■atily the Truth of this Affair; yet the Behaviour of the Chevalier, during the time he had been a Sojourner in these parts, had given them so good an Opinion of him, that none cou’d believe he wmu’d have wilfully been the Death 'of any Man, without an extreme Provocation, which the Words he spoke taking off all Suspicion of, they concluded it inust have been done by Accident.
Everybody endeavoured all they could to comfort hiin, but in vain; a thoufaiid times he w ifhed himself in the Place of the deceas’d; and tho’ he very well knew the law cou’d not touch his Life, yet he declared that it was iinpolsible for him ever to enjoy any real Peace of Mind again.
He was in the midst of these Exclamations, When Macario entered the Room; He was come into the Country with an Intention to pafs Some days with him, and arrived, just as the Noise of this unhappy Ad I venture began. The light of that dear Friend 1 made our difcoiifolate Chevalier burst into'a
Torrent of Tears -- -- They held each other
for Some time lock’d in the most strict Embrace without either being able to utter one
Syllable,
   221
Syllable, and it’s hard to Say which Seemed to feel the greatest Agony for Some time, the Prisoner or the person who came to con Sole him. The latter, however, being Soon after more fully informed of the Circumstances of what had happened, resiimed Some Fart of his accustomed chearfuiness, and wmuld have persuaded the Chevalier to do So too -- Reminded
him that both Divine and Human Laws regarded the Intention, and it was according to that alone all Sails were to be judg’d — — that as his Will iiad no part in the Accident, he wou’d be acquitted by God and Man, and he therefore ought not to accuse himself, nor be dejeiled at what might have been the Chance of any man as well as he.
All this the Chevalier was not ignorant of, but it had a double Influence over him when Spoke by a person for whom he had So great
a Regard -- -- -- i3y degrees he grew more calm
than he had been, and Suffered himself to be carried before a Magistrate without testifying anything more than that decent Concern which every honest man must feel in having been the (Jaufe, tho’ unknowingly, of the Death of his Fellow-creature.
But what became of his dear and amiable v7ife fdl this time, what Words, what Arguments cou’d have farce to moderate, her (jlriefs .' -- — The dreadful Intelligence of her husband’s Danger, reach’d her almost as foori as the Accident happened that had occasioned
it -- She was running to learn from his own
Mouth the Truth, but knew not where to find him, and when the News of his being in l3 Custody
222 Memoirs
Custody arrived, Ihe was unable to go to him
-- -- -- impofsible it is to describe her Despair,
So I (hall only say it was conformable to her
Love and Tenderness- -- -- was deaf to all
Intreat'es, all Persuasion?, all Remonssraiices — • She wept, file tore her Hair, nor had any more Mercy on her lovely bosom — She fainted every Moment, flieal moult died between the Arms of
her heartbroken Friends -- -- — That little
Dwelling lately the Seat of perfect Tranquil sty and inncoent Delights, was now a Chaos
of Confusion— — -- -- and Distradlion in
the Face of every one that came into it, which yet seem’d heighten’d at their quitting it by the little success their Endeavours hast to af svvage the Sorrows of that beautiful and unfortunate Perfoli they had come to visit. Our Fears for those we love, magnisses every Danger; and as flieyet had only heard her hus buid had killed a Man, without hearing any of the Circomllances which might have either 'ailcviated the Crime, or removed the appre henfions of the Punilstmenl, it is rather to be ■wonder’d at that (he suffered no more than that (lie suffer’d So much.
It is uncertain however, to what Extremities Hie might have been reduced if Macafto, who had left her in these Agonies, and who at his parting from her was able to give her little t>>)nshlation, had not return’d to her with si more explicit Account of everything. After the horrible Ideas fly had form’d of Guilt, of Shame, and the most ignominious Death, to be told, that a Husband she so dearly loved was not only innocent, butmuss infallibly
   223
libly be pronounced So by the Arbitrators of his Fate, was Such a Sudden rulh; of Joy, as was nigh depriving her of her Reason— — — asked the Same Quesslons a thousand times
over -- -- -- conjur’d to deal (incerely
with her, then entreated his Pardon for having doubted him — — as often bid him return
to his unhappy Friend -- -- -- -- then called him
back with some new Message from her — incoherent in this extasy of Joy, as before Oie
had been III that of Grief -- i so violent had
been the Extremes of both, that it was ado pithing So tender and delicate a Frame had thellrength to fussain Such terrible Revustions.
But Nature coa’d not long have born a Rapture, Such as the Safety of the Chevalier excited, nor wou’d indeed the Occasion Supply it -- -- That rapid Whirl which the first
afsurances viih.\ch Macario gave her, was Soon abated by the Reflection, that as innocentashe was, he must be ander Confinement she knew not how long - — that fly must all that time be deprived of his Society, and by the yet more afiiidting one, of the Uifquiets she knew be must endure for haying been, the instru' nient of titiis fatal Accident,; and stie nov sunk into a gloomy Sadness, which that faithful Friend knowing would take up a good deal of time to dissipate, left her to the Care of Some Helations who were with her, and returned to the Chevalier, wborn he found just going to take his Examination before a Magistrate.
The Depofttions being made, the only rna. terisl of which, Was that of the Son of the L 4 Dcceas’4,
224
deceas’d, and he not pretending to accuse the Chevalier of any Malice, or even Design in the Affair; none had any notion of his being in Danger. In all Such Cafes however, the Law appoints a Trial, and the Magiffrate was oblig’d to send him under Guard up to the Capital, where he was to remain in pri fon till the Time of his Hearing fiiou’d arrive.
What gladsome News was this to the inhumane Count de Anglia; ’lis said that in Spite of the pariiimonioufness of his Nature, he even gave the firs person who brought it to him four whole Crowns, a Sum So valuable to him, that be would not have bestowed it to have Saved the Souls of his whole Species
from everlaffing Perdition.' -- He doubted
not now but he should be able to order Matters So as utterly to deffroy his nephew’s Competitorfhip, and put an end to his Pretentions by the moss (hameful of all kinds of
Death- -- -- much did he exult, So much
imagine himself the Minion of Fortune, that st was not in his Power either to conceal
his Satisfadiion or Set any Bounds to it --
He triumph’d even to a degree of wanton ness, and cou’d not content himself wn'th knowing the real Owner of the Dignity Ire had ravifh’d and usurp’d, languifh’d in a miserable Prison, without fcafting his cruel Eyes with the malicious pleasure of feeing him there, and insulting his Calamity.
With this fiendlike dispofition he went to the Gaol, and demanded to see the Prisoner Chevalier James; but as it is the Cuffomnot to permit any one to the Speech of Persons
in
xjnfohnnate Toung nomemmi, 225
in hi>’ unfortunate Circurassances, without they themselves give leave. One of the Keepers went and inform’d him of this Guess.
The Chevalier was amazed, as he had rea fon to be, at So unparallel’d an Assurance;; had thought a man who was conscious of having So greatly injur’d him, wou’d rather have taken all imaginable Care to have avoid CD the sight of him, than have come tq Seek it; and as it was not probable that there cou’d be any Good meant to him by this extraordinary Visit, he refnsed to receive it, and de fir’d the Keeper of the prison to tell him Sp.
This fb highly incens’d the arrogant Count, that he ordered his Chariot to drive to the House of a Justice of the Peace, with whom happening to have Some slight Acquaintance, he obtain’d a Letter front him directed to the Master of the prison, requiring him to admit the Count de angua to the Presence of him v!/ho call’d himself the Chevalier Jama de Altamont.
On producing this Letter, and yielding to leave his Sword behind him, he was condodl ed to the Room where his Nephew was confined, but that ill treated Nobleman no Sooner Saw him enter, than he infissed on the jailor’s staying in the Room all the time he was there,
-- giving as his reason, that as he con’d
not imagine a person who had been the Author of all his Calamities, cou’d be instigated to see him by any other Motive than that of adding to them; So he cou’d not ansv»^er for his own Temper in. the presence of one who had So highly injur’d him.
l4 This
2 2 6 M E M o IR s of a n
'Fids prccaucioh, was not uniieccisary, for the Provocation he received was Such as mij; hc polsibly have excited a man less v/arrri, by Nature,, to Adtioiis he might after have repent td of. '
The h r It. Words the Count ds Anglia Said to hiiii were, Are you the Wretch vjho takes upon you the Yiohle Name 0/altamont, and pretend yossrjilj the Heir of a Family luhofe ijigniiiet and Titles are devolved on ms?
To this the Chevalier reply^'d, with an equal tho’ more jussihrble haughtiness, I need hot ask if you are the Monjier that ttfurps my
light- -- -- u'ctl I remember the Face of that
deceitful man who counterfeiting a Fendernefi. for my Touth and Innocence., under the Pre unce of sending me to an Academy trepanned me. into Slavery, and did your ntmoji to make tf me a Wretch indeed I but Providence, continued he, in fomewihat a lower Voice, hut
d fapp ointsd all your iafe Attempts -- -- -1 am
teturrfd, and -- -- --; --
, ■ Tes, cry’d theinjurioas Count, with a malicious Sneer, Tou are returned -- -- returna to take
'up your imagined Titles -- -- ifuppofe you fancy
your fe If already in Poffejfion of them; andnhis iis the 'Cajile of the fine cou nt de Anglia. Look? eund and see if it joes not vjell fuit your lordihip’s State, id rpeaking this he pointed to the iron liars of the Windows; which. jixvdi Insult putting the Chevalier beyond alf Patience j Barbarous h/lan\ laid he, Touican, fmd nothing here that is not infinitely better. than you merit to enjoy \ and, unhappy as / um, / dosibtd$ui'but tvlive to fd ym reduced
even
   227
even lower than / am at present- -- -- worse
Prison than even this,, befits and may perhaps be the Portion of Fraud, Perjury., and Oppref jion, such as yours.
Tou foou d have infierted Murder too in your Catalogue of Crimes, reply’d the Count, with, the Same disdain as before, and then indeed ike World might believe 1 were as near of Kin to you, as you pretend I am.
The Chevalier in this gave Some Tokens that he fliotild not be able long to inasser his Resentment, which the Mailer of the Prison perceiving, and fearing the Rffcds, thought proper to remind the Count, that it was nut generous nor becoming his lordlhip’s Rank to insult a Per Son in diflress, and that dii putes of this nature were never permitted in the ■ Place he now was; and added, that if hislord fhip wou’d not resolve to behave in a different manner, he must instil on his quitting it.
This Reproof agreed but ill with the Pride of him ’twas given to, but as he knew that those Sort of People were absolute in. their way, and there were few times in which be cou’d not command hiinself So far, as not to discover in his Countenance any part of vvhac past’d in his mind; he seem’d not to take it at all amiss, and only Said that if he knew, the Vileness of that Fellow (meaning the _ Chevalier) he wou’d not think it strange he i' used him in that manner. The other told him that he had nothing to do with any private Quarrels, he only pretendest to keep Peace in the Prison, and that if he had any Complaint against the Prisoner, or .rhe Prisoner against : ' ' ■ ■ ' him.
228
hini, they must both v'ait the Decision till he Should be ciifchargcd.'
idtfchargal cry’d the Count, you meanull
he IS hanged -- -- Has he not kiila a Man., and
tan you think hell ever he at Liberty till the Gallows sets hirn free S
Neither my Opinion nor your lordjh'pt., reply’d the Jailor, / believe., will be consulted in thii Point — hut every man is free to thihk as he pleases.
While the Count and Jailor were discour stng in this manner, the Chevalier had time to recover himself from that hurry of Spirits, which the Sight and Behaviour of his Uncle had occaiion’d in him; and he resolved that whatever he fliou’d Say to him for the future, he wou’d answer with unconcern; but the other put him not to that Test, for a little stung at what the Jailor had Said to him, he thought proper to avoid all Occasions of further Admonitions, and turn’d out of the Room to go away.
The Jailor follow’d to restore his Sword, which, before he had suffer’d him to come
up, he had obliged him to pull off -- while
he staid till the other had order’d it to be brought, he gratify’d Some part of the Spleen he was possess of in the moult virulent Railings against the Chevalier, and at last ask’d him, why he did not put him in Irons. I had no orders for it., replied the other, and beside see no
cccajionfor any such Severity. ''lis no Severity
at alf cry’d the Count, and I think you enght to do it.
Could
   229.
Could he have imagined the person to whom he Spoke had been Ib well acquainted with Some of his past transadiioiis as in reality he Was, he Scarcely would have talked before him in this manner; but it was his way always to conclude People were ignorant in whatever he wished they (hold be So; and tho’ that Confidence had Srequently turn’d, to his con folion, and Subjeded him to Affronts he might otherwise have avoided, yet was he still incorrigible -- -- the Folly, or rather the arrogant
Stupidity was ingrafted in his Nature, and he was not to be shamed out of it.
On his first mentioning the chevalier’s being laid in Irons, the Jailor fix’d his Eyes on him with a Look intelligible enough, had he not been too much blinded by his own obstinate tenaciousness to observe it; but on his repeating the Necessity he thought there was for So doing; Ah! my Lord. Said the other, Vh a thing to be laid in Irons — does yout Lordship knovj what it is to be laid in Irons?
I know I reply’d the Count, a little Surprised at the Emphasis he gave these Words, how should, I know? but one may guess ’//V part of thepunijbment that is the due of Murder. Ay, and of Robbery too, resumed the Jailor, and the ■ World is Jirangely unjuji in censuring, if your Lordship does not more than guess how these Boots ahdgantlets feel when they are well locked
on -- -1 have been told you knew the Weight of
them in the West, though' not for Murder.
The Count now found he was catch’d, and there was noway to come off. So putting as good a Countenance as he could upon the
Matter
230
Matter — r, indeed. Said he, anrdmpndsmt inssment of that Nature was once lad against me— — — ~ it was a malicious Prosecution everybody knew -- and I was acquitted.
Tes said the other ssily, Fthink your Lord jhif Servants committed the Robbery and afterward impeached you., either as their Companion in it., or Jharing the beji part of the Booty, I can't remember which. No matter., answer’d the Count, 'tis a foolish Story and mt worth mentioning. Tet I have often thought tf it, laid the other, and the feeing your lordjjoip puts it fresh into my Head. [ could like., me thinks, to know the Particulars, if you would be so good as to inform me of them.
To this the Count replied, that he remember’d nothing of it; and was now in a great Hurry to take his Leave, but the other, who Saw how it mortify’d him, found Some Pretence or other to hinder him from going for a good while; but in whatdifcourfe Soever they had, he (till introduced Something of the Irons and the Robbery, till the Count perceiving the Motive of it, and not a little enraged to find hrmfelf the Jest of Such a Fellow, tiung away excessively disconcerted, and the Jailor return’d to his Prisoner and gave him a Detail of the, Revenge he had taken for him on bis Uncle. The Chevalier Smiled, and could not help feeling an interior Satisfsfiion in anything that gave Pain to a Person whose bad Qualities merited the Contempt and Hatred of all that knew him.
Amico and Macario, who came in faon after, were made acquainted with the Story,
which
tjnfortiinate Toiin  231
which afforded them as much Diversion as the cirgumftances and Place their Friend was in would permit; but though they carefully conceal’d everything from him that might add to his disquiet, yet they were very uneasy them
Stlves: -- jthey found that his Confinement,
and the various Reports this unhappy Accident had occasioned concerning him in the Town,.
was a very great Damp to his Affairs -- -- -- -
so easy is it for Misfortune to check the Vigour of the warmed Friends -- -- Pity is a ffiort
liv’d Passion when the Objefi: of it’ once loses
the profpect of better Times -- -- Few there
are who do not naturally shun those who ssand in need of their Assistance, and fewer ssill who do not withdraw it when the hope of
any Return ceases. -- -- This, however, was
not the Cafe of the Chevalier, none that knew him but loved him, and the Rumours which his cruel Uncle and his Emissaries indussrioussy propagated, had an Effect only on those Who wtfe entire Strangers to him; but the Pains taken to render all good Wishes fruitiest, and Knowledge of the general Corruption of the Age, made bis Friends Sometimes tremble, less, innocent as he was, Means might be found to make him appear otherwise.
’tis certain, indeed, the wicked Count left nothing unattempted for that Purpose: The ‘minute he was inform’d of the chevalier’s
• Misfortune, he employ’d one of his Agents
• to send for the Son of the Deceased, who h ad him lodged in his own House and fed at his own Table. This was the Place where the Creatures Dependents of that inhumane
Uncle
232- Memoirs n
; Uncle had their daily Commons at his Es ^ pence; not out of Charity it may easily be believed, but to assist and carry on his designs of all Kinds and by all Methods, no matter
whether jullifiable or not -- Their bufiness
was not to examine but obey \ and if anyone of them happen’d to have a more tender Con science than the rell, and but hesitated to go through any dirty Work he was employ’d in, he was immediately (truck off the Roll of Penlioners, and driven to Seek his Eating at Some other Quarters.
these Wretches, as Soon as enter’d into the Service of their munificent Lord and Patron, were carried into a Street famous for equipping secondhand Gentry, and immediately transmigrated from iho. Beggar to; at least
they appeared So in the Eyes of this poor
Country fellow -- -- -- Betook them for fine
Gentlemen and all they Said as Grades' -- --
they seem’d to have a mighty Friendship for him, and to pity him for the loss of his Father, but were continually insinuating to him that he had been too favourable in his Evidence a,
, the Murderer -- that the Man who
call’d himself the chtxzwitt James de Altamont had certainly kill’d him with Design, and that he was one 6f the greatest Impostures and Vil jains upon Earth. Nay, one of them went So far as to frighten him with his father’s Ghost, if he did not do everything in his Power to revenge his Death.
Thus was the Ignorajice of this poor crea ture* work’d upon by their Artifices, to believe even contrary to what his Eyes had Seen,
and
Utiforfunate Toung’nobleman. 133
and his Tongue declared, not only before the Magistrate who took the Deposition, but also in the presence of Several others, and indeed to every one who had ask’d him any Quessions concerning the Accident. And he now told these new Friends, that When the Chevalier came to be try’d, he would Say other Things than he did before the Justice, and that nobody should persuade him to Sell his father’s Blood.
Uovj! cry’d one of the count’s Agents, were you offer*d anything not to prosecute the Chet)ater \ answer’d he, he told me he
was very sorry / lojl my Father through Ins rneans.^ and that when he got his Ejlate, ^ he would settle two hundred Crowns a year upon me to make me amends.
But you refused to take if I hope., laid one of thde pretended Gentlemen. Ter, reply’d the other, / flood out for four hundred, and he told me he could not promise that., for he had mere People to provide for.
This was po Invention of the fellow’s, for the Chevalier had really Said, that in confide ration»of his Lost he would make him that Settlement when it was in his Power; and this Effect of the Generosity of his Nature would his Enemies fain have construed into a Bribe, or a persuah've to the Man to compound for Juilice; but all the Attempts they made for this purpose Served only to (hew the Villainy of their Intentions, and, with all People of Sense, gave a Ludre to the Character of him they endeavoured to defame.
however,
234
However, as the Man to whom the Chevalier had made this promise, could not be fnp posed to have any true Notions of Honour, or thatmagnanimity which diflinguiflies the noble Soul, had himself taken it in a far different Light than what it was intended for, it was cafy to confirm him in that Opinion, by crying out against the bafencss of tempting a Son to renounce all filial Duty and Affidlion, and to conscnt to Screen the Murderer of his Father for a Gratification: to himself: At thit rate said one of these Incendiaries, he might ferfuade you to have killed your Father your filf — I wonder how he could look on such an h.onefi Face as yours, and flatter himfe/f with the Imagmation that. you would not do justice
to the ajhes of him that gave you Being -- -- -
it was an Fnfult upon you, and methinks 1 hate
hhn for this Pillany more than all the rest- --
offer to corrupt a young Man of so much In -- tegrityf
Ay, and so much good Understanding too., added, another.. Ah I Sir, said he, you are pleffed to be merry with your humble. Servant.
-- -- Not at all, reply’d the Flatterer, I d.m't
know a. more clever young Man -- — "• — you will tertaim'y make your Fortune.
\ The Brain of this, poor Fellow was quite mtoxicaced vrith receiving such: Civilities and Praises from Persons he took, to, be so much
above him -- -- bethought liimfels in, anotheir
World, and was. so transported,, that they light have made him believe anything or do anything.
They
Vnfortmiate 1 Itutt  235
They told him one day, that it was pity he was not in Some Settled way of Life, and that they would prevail on the Count de Anglia., who was a noble spirited generous Gentleman, to provide for him; and accordingly. Some days aster, Sard that they had Spoke to him, and he had promised to make him a Pre' ' of eight hundred Crowns to put him up in Some good bufiness, and that he might, be Sure of it, he would give him his Note st)r the Payment of So much Money aster the Execution of the Chevalier James : For, Said one of them, it would be needless for yon to receive
it till then, you cannot go about anybufinefs
nor attend to anything, till you have done with the Prosecution, but as soon as that is over, the Sum I mrntion pall be yours’, and, it may he, a great deal more.
wiscr Heads than that of this young Country Fellow, might have been thus seduced; and the manner in which he afterwards behaved at their Instigation, ought rather to b; imputed to his Infatuation than any Propeniity in him to Villainy or Corruption.
As he was the principal Evidence against: the Chevalier, the most pains was taken about him; but there were others also whom they endeavoured to spirit up, some of whom yielded to the Temptation offered them, and other's saw into it and despised it.
mac ario and Amico had Intelligence of all these clandestine Proceedings, and vrcre not idle in taking every proper and justifiable mea fure.to ward off the Blow they were intended for; and iho’ these Gentlemen had no Rer
course
2, 3 6
coarse cither to promises or Bribery, they Soon found fubflant'al and credible Evidences to oppose whatever fiditious ones the Count or his Agents corid musser up for the
Misrepresentation of the in qiieilion
The moll: material of which were from those person, to whom the Son of thedeceafed had immediately after it happen’d declared, that in his Conscience he, did not believe the Chevalier had any Design to kill his Father, and that he was not in a Possure, even to menace Such an Action, when the Gun he had in his •
Hand unhappily went off. -- -- The Surgeons
rdso who examin’d the Body, were Men of too fair and honell a Character to be prevail’d upon by any Temptation to pervert th, e Fruth..
- — Nor was the Magiilrate, to whom the Depolitions were firss made, capable either of concealing, or giving a different Turn to the ivleaning of any Part of what was then fwoni, and which must infallibly render everything that could be trump’d up afterwards in con tradidion to it, manifestly the Effcd of Malice and Corruption. So that on the whole, the Counsel consulted on this melancholy Affair, who were not only the ablest for their Learning in the Laws of the Kingdom, but also thb most conspicuous for an unb’afs’d Honour and Integrity, assured these anxious Ehiends of the Chevalier, that they had not
the least Ground for Apprehension- -- --
there was nothing could be alleged against .him thatcquld possibly touch his Life, or even give Occasion for a Bluff to rise hereafter in
his Cheeks on mention of it. — -- -- Let the
guilty
   137
guilty Mantle perfidious and cruel jjncle.^ take Shame to himjelfi Slid one of them who knew the brise Practises the Count de dnglia had recourse to in order to put an effectual End to his nephew’s Claim; the Infamy he endeavours to throw on the Heir of altamonc will recoil upon hin7felfand his Attempts to dfirefs him in this Point be of the greatefi Ser- -- to him.
Such an Assurance from a Mouth they knew incapable of uttering anything the Brain had not well digested, entirely dissipated all the Fears those had been in that heard it; and Amico had the Courage to vistt the chevalier’s fair and disconsolare Lady, and confirm the Hopes he before had given her with much less Certainty than he had now to boast ost
thecondition of that young Beauty was indeed truly worthy of Commiseration; withheld by her Friends and Relations from running to the frison where her dear Husband was confined, stie form’d to herself the most distrading ideas; imagin’d that those who told her the best News either deceived her or were deceived themselves, and believed all the worst ssie heard. In Spice therefore of the known Integrity of Amico he had no Small Difficulty to gain Credit in a Point on which So much depended.
But the Count de Anglian whose Sanguine Disposition made him always ready to believe everything that sooth’d his Wishes, was, notwithstanding the little reason he had for it in Effcd, very much elated at the Accounts given him by his Emissaries, which tho’ he found ■
they
238
they Swelled, to exaggerate their own Dexterity in the Management of what they were intruded with, yet he enough depended on what they told him to make him, flatter himsdf, that when the Trial came on So much would be Sworn againll the Chevalier, as would infallibly procure Such a Sentence as would remove for ever a Person whose Claim none now called in question, except himself and those he had gained over to be his Instruments.
He stood indeed in need of the consola tion this Hope afforded him; for besides the Mortification he had received from the Kindred of Arabella., he had Intelligence that ana dea had resolved no longer to endure the Infamy he endeavoured to fix on her, and was preparing to assert her Right and proye herself
his wife -- -- He heard also, that an eminent
Tradesman was about to proseeute him for having Seduced his Wife; and finding that ail ihefe things being in every one’s Mouth, he began to think it would be impossible for him to persuade any Woman to marry him, who was of any Condition or Fortune, which last
he now stood more in need of than ever -- --
His Lawsuits with those Claimants to Part of the Estate before mentioned not being yet
determined -- -- -- - the more alarming process
carrying on against him in behalf of the true
Heir -- -- the Debts he had already contrasted,
and those he was every Pay cqntrading for the Securing the little Interest he had, and answer kig the Demands of those. who Supported his bad cause, had npw .tendered, him So wretch..

   2'rg
cdly Necefiitoos, that he Scrupled not to offer the moss exorbitant Premium, nor to descend to the meaness Pretences for the railing Money to defray the daily Expenses he was obliged to be at.
O what is greatness, when purchased at the Expense of all that can render the poiteffof deservedly respeded by the World, or easy in himself! In vain does the unjust aspirer hope to cover his Infamy with ill got Titles and the Glare of Pomp, the base Groundwork is visible through all the tirifelled Out
(ide -- -- -- Man sees it with Contempt, and
tieauen Abhorrence'!
Of this Truth the Count de Anglia., ft must ‘ be confessed, was a notorious Instance — his Coronet neither procured him the least Esteem, nor his Estate, large as it was, Cestation from Disquiet- -- -- -- uffronted -- -- -- eternally
tei2ed with the Importunities of his Creditors, his Life was one continued Hurry; and to this perhaps was owing, that wanting Time for Reflection, he experienced not those Racks which, at Some Moments, the most hardened want power to repel in a conscious nefs of Guilt,
The Day appoiiited’for the Trial now drawing near, there was a great Debate among those Gentlemen who were of courtsel for the Chevalier: Some thought it would be derogating from the Dignity of his Birth to submit to ’ the Decistort of that Court before which ste was cited to appear and .that, as being the Count de Anglia., none had a Right to acquit or cojudemn himdsut the high Triburiahof his
pers
240
Peers -- -- -- - Others were againss his offering to
allege that Privilege, because tho’ born to the Title, he had not been in fojjejfum of it, and ’till he was So, could be looked on no otherwise than as a Claimant', for though his Right was undeniable in Reason and mjujlice, yet as it was contested in Law., he was not properly the Count ’till Law should confirm to him that Title.
The Majority were of this last Opinion, and it Seemed moll just both to Arnica and Macario; but the Chevalier himself would hear nothing against it: He detested everything that had the Appearance of Shift or Evasion; and how jnftifiable Soever his Pretensions were, to exert them on this Occasion he thought would he construed by his Enemies as a fear fullness of his Trial; he therefore desired they would offer nothing that would look like a Desire in him of delaying it. As 1 am innocent or guilty, fa may I be acquitted or condemned, laid he -- -- -- and I am fa conscious
of the one, that I am impatient ’till I am cleared from all Suspicion of the other.
’ This put an end to the Dispute, and instead of farther Arguments they Set themselves to make proper Preparations for the Trial, which was to come on in a few Days.
The chevalier’s Enemies were however infinitely less eager for it than himself; for being well convinced it could not terminate to the Satisfadioii of their Patron, they dreaded the Issue of an Affair which must convince him they had only deceived him with vainex pedations, and consequently put an end to
the
   24 r
the Subsistence they received from him at present.
To prolong the Necessity of his Dependence on them therefore as much as possible, they found Pretences in the profecutor’sname for petitioning the Court for a Delay of Trial -- -- This was twice granted but on Condition that Chevalier Jamei de Altarnonty and the game keeper, who had now Surrendered himself, should be admitted to bail. A certain Proof how little they were fupposed guilty of the Crime laid to their Charge.
The Chevalier now flew to the Arms of his Beloved, who received him with an ex cefs of Transport, tho’ somewhat allayed by the Apprehenssons, which, notwithssanding all the Assurances had been given her, yet hung upon her tender Heart -- -- Her Soul was divided
between Grief and Joy, and the fond Tears (he ssied flowed equally from these two
Sources -- -- She felt indeed a pleafure which
no Words can Speak, but then it was mixed with Pain; and the more he endeavoured to remove her Fears, the more she found him worthy of them, and doubted the Permanence of a Blessing Such as (he now posstess in him.
At length the Day arrived which was to put an end to all Suspense: No more Demurs were lissened to, and the Accusers and accused ordered to appear. They obeyed the Summons, but the Agitations of both Parties were just the Reverse of what is usual in Persons of such Circumstances — -- -- -- the Ac
cyders here were the only Anxious -- -- the
Accused were decently composed and tranquil, M As
2^42 M E M OI R S c/’
As this Adventure, on the Account of the great Share the Claimant of Anglia and aha mont had in it, engrossed the Attention of the whole Town, the Concourse of People who came to hear the Event was prodigious — Few that had heard his Story but interessed themselves in his Success; and even those who were moss insensible of the Wrongs of others, were excited by their Curiossty to see a Perstra no less eminent for his Misfortunes than for the Dignity of his Birth.
But, O God! who will believe that among the Number of Spedtators the inhumane
Count de Anglia was Seated -- -- yet So it was
-- i — Blown up with the vain Hopes his Emif saries had given him, he would not be prevailed upon to be absent from a Scene, the ga tassrophe of which he expected would fulfil every Wissi his wicked Heart hacf formed — beside, he imagined that if aught was wanting to assure the Ruin of his Nephew his Presence wmald complete it, by striking an awe on the Friends of that abused Nobleman, and more emboldning those who ssiould appear
against him. -- -- -- Shallow Policy 1 — Here
Malice overshot its Mark -- not all the Merits of the Chevalier -- -- not all his Sufferings,
could So much have influenced the Assembly in his Favour, as did this glaring Proof of the Barbarity of his Uncle. Every Heart anticipated the Judges Decree, and without feeing him pronounced him worthy of Life, worthy of Means to alsert his birthright; and tear the Coronet from the guilty Brow of him whole Actions So ill became it.
He
 tin  243'
Hs needed not indeed this prepossession, either to clear him from the Iinputation of the Crime he was accused of, or ssiew he merited the Dignity he claimed : His Innocence was sufficient for the and his Behaviour for the other; tho’ it must be owned both appeared with double Lustre, when compared with the vicious Difposstion and arrogant Deportment of his Oppressor and Competitor.
, As Soon as he was brought up with theusual Form by the Keeper of the prisoii, the Court thought fit to distinguissi him from common Criminals by ordering he ssiould be placed within the Bar, which Mark of Respect: galled Count Richard to the Soul, but astiirded Matter of Satisfaction to every one bcside.
All Eyes were fixed upon him, while he Seemed neither to despise nor court the ap plauscs he heard whispered of him through
the Crowd -- -- -- a Sweet composure Sat on all
his p’eatures -- -- grave, but not Sad -- -- -- Spirituous, but not gay -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- the Solemn Occasion
engroised, but not perplexed his Thoughts — ^ the Presence of those on whose Decision his Life or Death depended, inspired him with respedf, but not with Fear; and he (hewed rather like one who came to attend the Fate of another, than his own; but this Serenity received a Sudden Interruption, when happening to turn his Eyes a little on one fide of him he beheld his merciless Uncle: At So unexpedled a Sight he lost all his presence of Mind, and crieh out to one that stood near
him -- -- -- Heaven! does that Prodigy of Wickedness
come here too to insult me! — ■■ — to ren m 2 der
^44
derme.) hy an objesi so jujily hateful to my eyet.f incapable of making my Defence; and dijirad -- ing my Mind with the Remembrance of what he has made me suffer.
As he Spoke these Words with Some vehemence, they were heard by many others beside the person to whom they were addressed, and pasting from one to another through the whole Assembly, occastoned a general Murmur against the unparalleled Cruelty and stiame kss Behaviour of the Count.
The chevalier’s Solicitor came up to him on this Gccafion, and conjured him to consider his uncle’s Proceeding merited more his Contempt than Indignation; and not to fuf ^ fer even this Provocation to transport him into a Passion, which however justistable in another Place, would in this he now was be inexcusable.
Fear me not reply’d the Chevalier, I know both whereand before whom I am and Shall not do anything that may ajfiji that cruel de fign which doabtlefs brougtot him hither.
He had Time to Say no more, the Court now calling to him, by the Name of the Chevalier Iames de Altamont.^ to answer if Guilty or Not guilty of the Crime laid to his Charge, he reply’d immediately:
That tho’ as Count de Anglia he might re fuse to be judged by any but his Peers; yet, as he was conscious of his Innocence, and impatient to be acquitted of a Crime So unworthy of his Dignity, he readily Submitted to the Decision of that Court he was before, and pleaded
They
   245
They then proceeded to examine the wit nestes, who less emboldened by the presence of their Patron, than intimidated by that of the Chevalier, had not Consciences Sufficiently hardened to allege anything material against him; and even in what they Said, contradidi: ed themselves every Moment. The Artifices practised upon them were obvious to all present, and on Some crofs quefiions being put to them by those Gentlemen who were ioun fel for the Chevalier, they could not avoid giving such answers, as had not the Count d Anglia been lost to all sence of Shame, must have made him immediately quit the Place; efpeciallyjwhen the Chevalier being permitted ^ to make his Defence, he modestly and in the most pathetic Manner apologised for want of proper Expressions, Having., he, looking fall upon his Uncle at the Same time, been deprived of an Education fuitahle to my Birth, by the unparalleled Cruelty of those vuhofe Duty it ivas to have improved the tsalenu I received from Nature.
Gould any Man but he have staid after hearing So just and So public a Reproach Could any Man but he have faced the indignant censures of a thousand Tongues exclaiming in Chorus on his Barbarity! Yet did he keep his Seat, ’dll he received the farther Mortification of the general. applause bestowed on his Nephew, after he had related the Circumstances of that unhappy Accident which brought him there, with all the Simplicity of Truth, but joined with a certain sweetness more engaging to the Heart than all the Ornaments of Rhetoric could have been.
M 3 Mad
246
Mad with Rage at this unlook’d for Disappointment, and impatient to vent the Malignity of bis Soul, the wicked Count now started hastily up, and rushing thro’ the Crowd with as much Precipitation as the thickness of it would admit, flung himself into his Charior, muttering the most unheard of curses as he past— — — united Hiss pufsued him till he ■was out of Sight, and Some there were who even followed to his Gates, exclaiming and reviling; while the Chevalier was acquitted without the least Hesitation, and the loud Huizas of all present testify’d the high satis fadion they took in the equitable Judgement of the Court.
To describe the stncere Joy of his Friends, or the Transports of his amiable Wife, when congratulating him on this happy Event, would be altogether needless, since there is fcacceany Imagination So cold, who having read their Charafiiers, but must be capable of conceiving tvhat Words would but poorly express. The Chevalier himself was the Person who felt least Pleasure at his own Acquitment, for tho’he rejoiced his Innocence had been so fully cleared, yet to refleist that through his means a poof Man had been deprived of Life, made a certain Heaviness hang on his Spirits, which all the Endeavours of his Friends could not for k long rhyme remove. *
Yet could his cruel Uncle, guilty of the most premeditated Barbarities, while Villainy Succeeded, riot in Luxury; wholly incapable of remorse, he felt no Anguish but in the dis appohitraent of his wicked Plots; To have
Seen
 mi  247
Seen one of his own Blood fall the ihnocent Victim of his Fraud and Pride, would have fill’d him with as excessive a pieasure as the contrary Event now did with despair.
His stantick Rage was Such at the Treatment he had received from the Populace, that thnse whose Place it was to be about him, felt that Revenge he rather ought to have taken on himself for his own Pride, Cruelty, and Polly. But those w'ete Vices too much a Part of his Nature to be (hook off, and muss be cxercised on his poor Domessicks, h.ayirig no
other Objects- -- threw a Chair at one — —
a Table at another— — on a third — —
kick’d a fourth downstairs -- -- -- wifli’d the
whole World in Flames -- -- call’d for everlasting
Perdition on himself and all Mankind * and Some aver, even cursed Heaven itself. His Agents and Dependents endeavoured to bring him into better Temper fora long time in vain — — they sooth’d — they flatter’d every Passion — they Swore to retrieve all yet, and either die or find Some means to revenge him not only on the Pretender, as they call’d the Chevalier, but ajfo on all that had espoufed his cause — join’d with him in the most horrid Imprecations against and Macaria in particular.
-- -- Rather than see your lord/bip thus dif
?meted. Said one of these abandon’d Wretches, Ul undertake to send all their Souls to Hell before another Night.
To talk to him in this manner was the only way they had to continue their Imposh tions on him, and tho’ no Man had more Deceit and Cunning than himself, yet was he So M 4 much
^4^ Mem 6^1 Rs of an
much blinded by his Vanity, that the very Artifices he pra<9: ised on others, could at any time be made use of with success upon him felst They were no Strangers to this weak fide, and on any Event which they knew would be perplexing to him, were always provided with some Story to raise his Expedla*
tions of an adequate Satisfadiion one now
told him of a person he had heard of, that had a large Sum of Money which he wanted to put out, and that he believed with a little Management it might be at his lordfliip’s Service -- Another offered to introduce him to. a
beautiful young Girl just come to Town, yet had already attradled the Eyes of half tl^ Nobility in Town, and added, that he had Such an Ascendant over her, that he could almost promise his Lordship he should have the first of
her -- -- But a third took a Letter out of his
Pocket, which he pretended to have received that day from the Confident of a Widow of Condition, who, he Said, was worth an immense Sum of Money besides a great Jointure, and no Encumbrance of Children; and finding his Patron inclinable enough to hear it, read to him these Lines;
l‘he Letter.
Ho Monsieur Relate
SIR,
WHAT r told my Lady concerning the Count de Anglia made So great an im preffion on her, that Ihe has talk’d of nothing
else
xjnfortunate tovh  249
else since- -- thinks him on of the most
agreeable Men in the World, and wants only to be convinced of the Sincerity of his Passion
to make him a Suitable Return -- -- -- -- If he is
as much charm’d with her as you Say he is, let him make an immediate Declaration of his Passion either by Letter or in Person, tho’ I believe the former will fhevv most the Humility of a Lover who is not happy enough to be acquainted with the Object of his Affection-
-- -- the Affair Succeeds, as I doubt not but
it will by my Assistance, I depend on you for the Security of that Gratification which my
Endeavours will very well deserve- -- -- ihali
be glad to see you at your Leisure, and am,
Tours,
Emilia.
All these Baits did the gull’d Count Swallow with the utmost Greediness;; the last moult
engrossed his Attention. -- A Lady with that
Fortune would be a Sure resource in cafe of Accidents, and if the Right of the Chevalier James took place against him, as he now began to fear, he lliould not at least be totally undone. But then Anadea was a dreadful Oblhacle to hii Designs on the Score of Marriage -- He knew not but the first Ship that
arrived might bring that injured Fair, whose ' Presence and Complaint would infallibly frustrate all Attempts of this nature on any other Woman,
M s On
250
On bis Suggesting his Appreheristons on rhi& Score, another ofhis^ Instruments replied, that he had an Expedknt which he would undertake (hold prevent her from giving his Lordship
any Disturbance, -- -- It was this, -- He
proposed to go and meet her on her landing, as from his Lordship, and then instead of suffering her to come to the Metropolis, conduct her to Some House of his own providing, and keep her confin’d till she not only telign’d all Pretenfious to him in Form, but also gave up whatever Credentials she might bring with her for the Probation of her Marriage.
; The Count was So transported with this Thought, that he even envied his Agent the
Glory of contriving it. -- '‘twill do,, cry’d he,
"‘twill do — when once we have her to ourselves from all her Advisers we will make her sign what we please,, it Pall he worse for her — ■ Shall a Man of my Quality be under any ap prehenftons from such a Creature as Pel
In these few Words was his whole Soul delineated t — his Cruelty, his Fraud, his Pride fet forth to the Life; as was his Vanity and, Folly, in So easily giving Credit to any the most improbable Stories that Sootffd his Self conceit. He now forgot all that had So lately enraged him, and fired with new Desires and. new Hopes, was for immediately putting in practice the Means of attaining them. In Compliance with the fupposed Advice given by the Confident of the fair Widow, he wrote a Letter to her as foliovrs.
The
xjnfortmate Tomg Noitlman, ^511 The Count de Anglia,
TO THE
Beautiful relib of the Chevalier
DU Bris,
Madam,
O say I have had the Honour of feeing -*• you, is fufscient to convince both yourself and the whole World, that I adore you; since with a much less Penetration than the World is pleased to allow me, I could not but discover Perfedions in you worthy of the Coronet I beg leave to lay at your Feet, ae eompanied with a Heart which will ever be
devoted to you.. -- If the Title of Countess
de Anglia has anything in it that may render the Visits of a Person who alone has the Power of conferring it on you, not altogether disagreeable, I entreat Permission to wait on you, in order to give you all imaginable Proofs of ssie Palfion I am inspired with, and with how much Ardour and Sincerity I am,
Madatn^
Tours Eternallyy
Richard de Ancliav
'This
252 M E M O I R S ^ ^; 2
This being highly approved on by his little Council, the person who had the Honour to be the Projeftor of this fine Scheme, was thought moss proper to be the Bearer, while the others were employ’d on those Designs they had proposed to him.
The first acquitted himself in a stort time of his Engagement, a Sum of Money was raised, tho’ at an excessive Interest; for Count Richard never Scrupled, for the Sake of a pre fern Expedient, to promise anything, bind himself to anything in future; was always extremely generous till the Day of Payment came, and then was Seldom without an eya flon to avoid the Penalty.
The other, who had invented the Story of a young Beauty, merely to bring him into good-humour, and continue himself in Favour by being necessary to his Pleasure, was obliged to have recourse to another ficuon to excuse the Disappointment, and to atone for it as well as he could, brought him in reality acquainted with a Girl, who had the address to pass herself upon him for one that had never before made the least false Step.
As for the Marriage jobber, he went boldly to the Lady he had mention’d, and without having received the least Encouragement, as he had pretended, or being even acquainted with any Person belonging to her, delivered the
count’s Letter to her. -- -- - — As she was in
qffed a Woman of Fortune and Character, she was a little Surprised at this Declaration of Love from a person she knew only by Report, and could not remember she had ever Seen, as
indeed
 g nohletpan. 25^
indeed The had not. She however answer’d with Civility enough; but Said, she thought it inconfissent with her former manner of behaviour, to receive the Honour of his lordfhip’s Visit, unless introduced by Some person of her Acquaintance, especially on the Affair he mentioned in his Letter; So having enclosed it under a blank Cover, she dessred the. Messenger would return it to him, with the answer (he gave by word of mouth.
The Fellow, however, knew his own Interest better than to obey her Orders, and only told the Count that she could not be Spoke with, but that he had Seen Emilia who hacs informed him, that a Relation was now in the house with her, who having ssrenuoussy recommended a person to her, it would be better if his Lordship deferred his Visit till the Departure of This Friend, who elfe might put a thousand Things in her Head to his di&d vantge.
This Pretence was Succeeded by others, which, together with the Hurry of Spirits the Count was now perpetually in, on the account of procuring ssdiitious Proofs against the real ones of the Chevalier, prevented that Deceiver of others from discovering he was deceived, himself by the Wretches whom he fed.
In the mean time the Chevalier continued his process, which was carry’d on with as much success as the tedious Forms of a civil Court of Judicature would admit of The persons he was So fortunate to employ as counsel, Solicitors, Cfr, — happen’d to be Men of Such unbiafs’d Honour, Zeal and In
^ ^
2^4 M E M 0 I R S
tegrity, that they always made their client’s ‘ •, daiise their own; and the uncommon Circumstances of this agitating them with a more than ordinary Desire of bringing So iniquitous a Scene to Light, they were indefatigable in their Labours; and having good reason, by the whole of (Zlount Richard's Behaviour, to be allured he would raise all the Money he could from the Tenants on the Essate, represented the Affair in such proper Colours to the supreme Judge, that he granted them Writs of Ejediment in order to prevent any part of the Rents being paid tiil the grand Decision should be made.
This was gaining a great deal, and indeed all that thqjuji Claimant cou’d at present desire;; it made the umvarrantahle Pojfeffor almost besides himself with Rage and apprehension;; when he heard Chevalier James was preparing to go himself in person with those who were appointed to execute this Point of Law.
That injur’d Nobleman had an extreme desire to see once more that Kingdom which gave him Birth, and his Friends highly approving this Inclination in him; his Lady, whom it was judg’d improper fnou’d go with him, wou’d not Suffer her Tenderness So far to get the better of her Prudence, as to offer anything in Opposition to it.
It was highly necelsary amicoahowm stay to animate the Process, and keep the Witnesses together; various Stratagems being continually put in practice by Count Richards Tools, both to corrupt and terrify them.
Out
tjnfoiaunate Youn  2
But Macano wou’d not be Separated from hi dear Chevalier, and besides was a person, who on account of his perfe<st’ Knowledge of the World, fine Address, and manner of Behaviour, might be of infinice Service to him oil; various Qccalions. Two other Gentlemen also, to whom the chevalier’s Virtues and Misfortunes had made him equally beloved, wou’d needs accompany him in this little Voyage and the Progress he intended to make through all those Parts, where from a long uninterrupted lineal Descent, he was heridetary Lord, Baron, and vlscount..
It was not in the Power of all Count Ri “chard.s Invention, nor that of his Inssruments,. to put any Stop to this Expedition, the Event of which he had So much Cause to dread but to render the Reception of the Chevalier and his Friends as difagr^eable to them as possible, hefent three of his Emissaries with Letters and Inssrudtions to Some in that Kingdom, who by having been Partners with him in his debaucheries, he imagin’d wou’d assist his, Schemes. .Die Substance of what he wrote to them, was, that a Bastard Son of his late Brother, had taken upon him to call his Title in question, and was coming over to forbid the Tenants from paying him any more Rent - — — and desired that they would prepossess, the People with this Idea of him, and add also that he had been a Vagrant about the Streets of the Capital — — had afterwards transported himself
to America -- -- return’d a Common Sailor
-- had never been but a most abje<st Prossi
gatcj and was now only Spirited up by three
or
256 Memoirs
or four ill minded persons to dissress him in his Affairs.
Unexampled Barbarity! hardness of Heart! not to be match’d but among those lying and implacable Beings that inspired it! This was adfing over again all his former Crimes, mis repreienting every fal, and pleading those very miseries he had been the Sole Author of, as reasons for ill treating the illussrious Sufferer.
The indefatigable Instruments of their wicked Patrons Will, fet out with all possible Speed on this Enterprise, after having flatter’d him with the Hopes that they wou’d order Matters lb, as that his Competitor should be driven back with Shame and Const sson. But how far they were able to execute this execrable Commission, we (hall See anon.
After the cruel Count had, as he thought, prepared an unkind Reception for his Nephew in the Land which gave him being, he thought he ought not to be idle himself, and began to conssder how he fhou’d distress him in that he was about to quit; therefore affoon as he heard the Chavalier,. little Supicious of these new Plots forming against him, and having got everything ready for his Departure, had taken leave of Awico, and was fet out on his Journey, he caused a Letter to be wrote to that worthy Friend of the Distress in an unknown Hand, the Substance of which was as follows.
AC
Vnfortunate Toung Noblemati. 2, 57
sko Monjleur A M i C o.
SIR,
Having been a wunessos the Friend ihip So long Subfisting between you and the Count y Anglia., I cannot look on your present Enmity without a great deal of Concern, as equally prejudicial to you both --
of all who espouse the Cause of his Competitor and must inevitably fall with him, there is none for whom he is So much troubled as
yourself -- -- Believe me, Sir, that my Lord
has Such uncontestable Evidences, that it is neither in your Power, nor that of all the World,
to (hake his Title -- -- Be therefore no longer
deceived with the Specious Pretences of an Imposture, but return to yout former Engagements with a Nobleman, who, in Spite of all you have done, has still a tender Regard for you, and who, I can assure you, for I have heard him Swear it, will not only forgive everything that is past, but also make over to you and your Heirs for ever, that part of the Estate mortgaged to you by the
late Baron de Altamont -- -- -- -1 imagine he
will send persons to treat with you concerning this means of renewing your former Amity; and 1 wish you So well as to hope you will not refuse the Offers he intends to make you, nor any longer lend your Endeavours to prop a falling house which can only involve you in its Ruins. I ehoose to conceal my self at present, but according as you pnrsue
the
S
the friendly Advice I give, Ihill at a more proper time declare the Name of him who is,
Fery much Toun.,
Some days aster this, two persons whom Ami CO had often Seen at the count’s, came to him, as from him, and confirm’d the Offer
made in the Letter -- -- They even brought an.
leftrument ready sign’d in order to convince him there was no Deception in the A stair, and also a full Receipt for that pretended debtfo s which he had been arrested betbre his Voyage xo Altarnont. '
Amko listened to what they Said with a Pati; cnee and Attention, which made thein. imagine they had gain’d their Point; bat when he found they had fusty executed their Commission— — Lid he, is vjondrous kind, hut it is mt my way to abuse thf Generosity of my Friends-
-- -- him therefore., continued he, that. I
sanmt (tcceft the Gift he offers,, hecauje I ant very well convinced it is not his own he would
hef law -- butin return far his Favours give
him this Letter., that he may know how to thank the Person that wrote it.
With these words he took the above Letter out of his Pocket,, and put it into the Hand of one of them, who was indeed su^edfced by. Amico to be the same that.vv.rote it.. They both looked very much confused at an Answer, which by ilm bt'ginning of his Treatment of them they had not expected, and were l>reparing to add something to enforce, what
they
Vnfortiimte Toun  2^()
they had already Said on the Part of the Count, but he prevented them by telling them that he was Surprised the Chevalier Richard. aster knowing him So long, fliou'd know him lb little as to believe he wou’d undertake any caivse without being well convinc’d of the Justice, or that when he once was folie wou’d desert it for any Consideration whatever.
Aster this he wou’d enter into no farther Conversation on this Head, but asked if they wou’d dine with him; and behaved to them with air ironical Complaisance that stung them rathe quick, and they were glad to get out of a bouse where they found nothing but a just derision of themselves and the Offers they brought was to be expel: ed.
The Count had not greatly flatter’d hurt' Self with Success in this Attempt, tho’ he made it, knowing very well if it Succeeded he (hourff deprive the Chevalier of his greatest Support; and if he fail’d, the Essay cou’d be no Prejudice to him, being well asslired his Gharader cou’d riot flitier more by it in the Opinion of Amlco^ than it had already done
on other Accounts -- -- -- he therefore bore the
Disappointment with more Patience than he was accustomed, trusting entirely to the suc eefs of those Agents he had employed abroad against the Chevalier.
That much wrong’d Nobleman was now' pursuing his Journey 'wyh his three Friends, one vaiet de charnbr^ ^f‘|, yvg Lackies, and meeting with no impedirfiens either by Land or Sea, arrived Safely at that Capital from
w hence
io
whence he had been so cruelly trepaii’d. — ‘his Enemies had been there Some time before him, and were not idle in their Endeavours. The firss public Place he went to, a Mob was hired to insult and hiss him, and many ’•affronts thrown on him as he passed the Streets; but all this only showed the mean • Malice of his Uncle, and was presently quaffed by the respedl which the Populace Ssion found he was treated with by their Superiors.
That good Woman, who had reliev’d the Dissresses of his Childhood, when he was indeed in that vagrant Condition whth which the Inssrumcnts of his cruel Uncle now upbraided him, was ssill living, and conceal’d nothing of the Chevalier Richard. to him while at her house, and the Pretence
he made to take him thence. -- -- Several
other reputable Persons also who had Seen him in his Infancy happening to be then in Town, assured as many as Spoke of the Affair, that the Baron de Akamont had really a Son by his Lady, and that they Saw not the least room to doubt but that this Gentleman was that Son. In fine, a very little time join’d to his manner of Behaviour, which was far different from that of an Imposture, convinc’d those least inclin’d to be so, that he was in effect the Person he Said he was.
Few Persons of Rank or Condition enough to entitle them to Such a Favour, but invited him to their Houses, and entreated to be informed from his own Mouth the Particulars
xjnforuinate Toiing Noblemati. i 6 £
lars of his Misfortunes -- -- the most elegant
Entertainments were made for him and his
Friends -- -- -- the greatest Marks of Distindli
on were bestowed on him wherever he went; and instead of being treated beneath his Dignity, whoever had Seen him either at Church, at the playhouses, Assemblies, Walks, costee houses, or any other public Place, would have taken him for Something yet greater than he was, by the refpediful and pleas’d Attention with which all Eyes were fix’d upon him.
But as to create Love and Esteem were not the chief Motives which brought him to that Kingdom, he quirted the Capital, and went to the Province where he was born, and where lay a considerable Part of the Estate of his Ancestors. The Wretches employ’d by Count Richard, had notice of his Intention, and finding their Schemes here rendered abortive by the prevalence of Truth, and the good Sense of the persons they had in vain attempted to impose upon, they hurry’d down to Altamom.^ hoping to meet with better suc cefs among the innocent Country People, on whom the first Impression is generally the strongest.
They got there five Days before the Chevalier and his Company, and having with a great deal of difficulty raiftd a po^y^of about fourteen or fifteen, they took up all the Inns if) that Town wtere the Chevalier was born, in order to disappoint him and his Friends of any Lodgings at their Arrival.
This
262 yi emoms of an
This petty mischief, as they thought, completed, they disperfed themselves through the whole Neighbourhood, venting the moult preposterous Falftioods of their own inventing, as Additions to those the Count had forged, in order to Spirit up the Rustics to drive him nut of the Province as an Imposture come to betray and cheat them; but they linie fuspe^l* CD the Shrewdneis of these.dountry People; they knew, without these Creatures informa tion, that the Chevalier 'James de Altamont was on his Journey towards them, alb on what Score he came, and were full of impa tstnce, to behold a Nobleman who was born among them, had So long been lost, and So miraculously recovered — They had always pitied the late i3aron, had looked with a tender Eye upon his Faults, as believing him i!i stigated to commit them by the wicked infi nuations of his Brother, whose very Name they hated, and whose Behaviour stnee he as sumed the Title and Estate, made every Day more odious to tltem. All this joined to the History of the chevalier’s uiiexempled Injuries and Sustlrings, as it was Spread through the whole Country by those to whom Amico had related it, excited in everybody a tender Prepossession in his Favour; which it was far from being in the Power of what these wicked Emissaries, of a more wicked Patron, could say against him to remove.
They concealed their real Sentiments however, seemed not to doubt the Truth of what was told them — - — Drank the real Count de
angl.d.%
Vnfortunate toungnohaman. 263
anglid.s Health, and Confusion to the Pretender; which, being taken juli the reverse of what these honest People meant, gave an infinite satisfaqion to those employed to seduce them, and they expected no less than that the Chevalier and his Friends wouldbe mobbed and almost torn to pieces the Momem; they approached: Little did they think what Sort of Preparations were then making to receive him, and that the Seeming Credit given to their Suggestions, was done with no other intent than to heighten hisl’riumph by So untxpedkd a Mortification to his Enemies.
It was only their Ignorance of the exact Day ill'which they might oxped him, that prevented him from being met at a great distance from the Towiv; but when the People were informed that he was near, by one of the Servants who rode before in order to provide Lodgings for that worthy Company, they ran out one and all. Shops, Streets and houses were left to the care of little Children, or Such Women who only wanted Strength, to gratify their impatient Curiosity;; but whom old Age Or Infirmities kept Prisoners remained behind -- -- happy were the foremost of
this joyful Crowd -- — Tome press’d to kifs
his Hands -- -- Others clung about his Legs
-- -- Some took the Bridle of his Horse,
leading him as it were in Triumph, while those at greater Distance threw up their Gaps, and join’d in the geiieral Cry, Long live the Heir of Altamont — our own true Lord.
In
i6'4 Memoirs o??
Ill this manner, amidss a (lionting Multitude, was he condudled to the belt housethe Town afforded, and there lest, aster a thousand Benedidlionsf to receive the Congratulations of the chief of the Province, who hearing of his Approach, had made all the haste they g ju’d to meet him. Many of these re membred his Birch, had often paid their Compliments to him in his Infant Years, and in Spite of Hardlliips, Griefs and 'Troubles, Sufficient to have fixed the most heavy Gloom on any Face, cou’d still' trace great part of the Baroness de Altamom's sweetness in a Son who was once thought very like her.
While these were entertaining him with fomc difcourse of his Family, and listening with Horror and ama zement to the brief Recital he made them of his uncle’s Barbarity towards him, the Populace were busy in making Bonfires, ringing the Bells, and other Dcinonstrations of a public and sincere Joy.
Never had Count Richard been received in this manner; for tho’ the blackest of his Crimes had hill now been wrapped in darkness, yet there were others too notorious to Suffer that the Person guilty of them should be treated with any Marits - of Love or Esteem.
But these Testimonies of Duty and Affection to their new found Lord ended not with the Night. Early in the Morning a Troop of young Men, and Maidensneatly dressed, with Garlands on their Heads and preceded by Several musicians, came before his Lodgings,
and
jjnforhmat e Toun  26 j;
and presented hit With a rural enteftainfilemt which in that Coinitry they call the Long Dance. Never had the Chevalier and his Friends beheld a Scene more perfesly delightful -- -- -- the clear and ruddy Complexions
joined with the Youtih and Innoeenee of thesc Performers gave a Grace to every Motion; and it was pleasant to observe how, it being then theseafon of the Year which afforded little Variety of Flowers wherewith to ornament their (Jhaplets, the Girls had cut pieces of Ribbon to represent Roses, Pinks, Lilies, Cfr. in So lively a manner, that they Seemed so many Flora's celebrating the coming in of the Spring.
In fine, as bis Restoration to auamoat was like a new Birth, his Entrance into it was wel corned in the Same manner his Eiitcalice into the World had been, and the whole time ha stay’d gave one coniimued Proof of the Sincerity of the Peoples Hearts towards him, and that they were not only convinced of thd Jufiice of his Pretenstons, but also that they thought him worthy of the Dignities he claimedi
How severe a Shock vas this to his Enemies, Who from the Moment they femnd how he was received, durst not ffew their Heads: for fear of meeting that Sreatmeut thcmfelve# which they intended for him and his Friends;, but fculked in Corners ’till Night favoured their Escape, and then went post to the Capital. From whence they wrote an Account of their Difappointraent to Count liiebard. and desired fresti instcudions’in what maiinetr to proceed.
N The
266 M E M o I R s CC n??
%
Chevalier and his Company having now Served their ejesments, were obliged to quit Ahamont in order to go to those other Provinces where likewise he had Estates, and M here it was necessary the Same Writs should be delivered to prevent his unjust Uncle from receiving any farther Profits from a Patrimony to which he bad So little Right, and which he had but too long enjoyed.
The Reception they met with through their whole Progress, convinced the chevalier’s Friends that the extraordinary Rejoicings made for him at Altamont., were not altogether owing to a partial Indulgence to. him as having been born among them, but to the Certainty everybody had of his being the lawful Heir; ssnee not only at his own Estates, but in almost all the great owns he had occasion to pafs through, he was complimented with Bonfires and ringing of the Bells.
The News of his success in the Country having reached the Capital, the carefses he before received there were redoubled at his Return by all the People of Distindion; and it was highly satisfactory both to himself and Friends to observe, that those who most pub -- lickly espoiised his causc, were those who were themselves the most Eminent both for their rank and Virtue.
It was not indeed in Nature to be otherwise, we all are apt to commiserate those most who we find have the nearest Affinity with ourselves — -- How then could xiataigh hrn but look with the greatest Tenderness
and
^    26 j'
and Compassion on the Orphan of So illiissri ous a House, exposed in infant Innocence to all the Miseries Language can give name to?
— -- -- How could the ivorthy and the Good
but love and reverence thole noble Principles, which without the Advantages either of Precept or Example he had So sseadily adhered to during the whole course of his Misfortunes? -- -- -- How could the Learned but reflect
with Admiration on the Ardency of his Dehres for acquiring Knowledge, and with what Care and i^ssiduity he had improved every little Hint that Providence threw in his way for the Improvement of his Mind? And what Matter of Regret was it for all who truly loved their Country, to find a Genius capable of being So great an Ornament to it, had been by the moss unheard of Barbarity deprived of all the Means of exerting itself!
She Ladies too, I mean that part of them who gave themselves the trouble of looking no farther than those exterior aecomplifh ments which compose what is commonly called a pretty Gentleman, could not forgive Count Richard for having denied him the Advantages of Dancing and Music: : as they were with his natural politeness and Complaisance, they could not find Words to, express Sufficiently how great a Mortification it was to them that he could not make one with them at a Ball, or give them his Judgement on a Confert.
In a word, being So generally liked as he was, every one lamented most his want of N 2. that
268
that Branch of Education which was most agreeable to their owni particular Talle; but ail agreed in this, that no Punishment ever yet invented could be equal to the Crimes of Such an.dncle as Count Richard.
But while the Chevalier was receiving all the Demonstrations of goodwill and refpesl he could destre^ and infinitely more than he cx'pedled, a Plot was forming against him fit only for the execrable Brain of him who had no other Ideas but what turn’d on Mischief; but, which, .like those that went before, Served only to bring Coufulion on the Author. ■
^ That inejtorable aod cemorstefs; Uncle being inshrmed byhisemiffaries of his nephew’t suecess^ and the lreatment. he had received, was ready to burst with Rage and ivlaiice; and perceiving: m AU was going— — Justice, was ready to burst upon him like a; Deluge, and fwicep every thfing away his Avarice and Ambition had usurped, leaving him naked ta Putiithment and Shame, he refolv^ on an Expedient no less bold than wicked;, which was to cauic the Chevalier yatnes to he arrested in an Atstion of one hundred tmd twenty thousind grg'wiii.s, flatteiing; himself thar it would be iiiivpofiible to procure Bail for So Jaftge: a; Sum; that he would be thrown into Prifoi: ^ and by being prestuted' from returning,, he would be render’d incapable of profeeutiug the Suit, and all his Friends discouraged from .astisthig him. To the Orders; be gave his aigauvfor this,, he alb added thfrt tbiy Oiould
, ■ stild
vnforuind.te Toun  269
send Expresses to all the Tenants, pretending that the Chevalier had been detected in his ’forgery, had given up his Claim; and then to demand What Rents were owing, in the Name of Richard Count de Angtin and bhro'ii de d.lto}nont.^ the real and triie Owner of the Essates appertaining to those Titles.
The Wretches to whom these Inssru61: iofis were drredled, fail’d not to obey them punc taally to the utnioss of their wicked Power: They got a Writ immediately made out, and prevail’d on an Attorney to back it; but when they came to the Office, met with a difap pointment they had not foreseen: All thity could Sty being ineffedual to get it feal’d: The Pctfon appointed for that Parpofe'had heard the whole of the Story, and Said he would not venture on such a Thing, unless he had the Sandion of one of the Judges to inderntiify him. This Satidion the count’s Engines labour’d to obtain, hut tymiout sue cefs; thole wise Dilpenfcrs of the Law icii inediately Saw into the Villainy of the Defigh, and those that requeued it had a Severe Reprimand inilead of a Grant,
Nor was it probable the Tetiatits, So ascef tain’d as they were of the Justice of the chevalier’s Cliaim, and So true ail Astedibn as they had for him, would have been deceived by any idle Story to his Ptejudice, much less have been prevail’d upon to pay any Money which must infallibly have beeh to their own Loss: The Chevalier, hawever, having been iiiformed by Sortie of his Friends ofthis De n 3 Sign
270 Memoirs of mi
sign upon them, caused Printed advertise itients to be Sent down into alt Parts of the Country, Setting forth the true State of the Cafe, and these lass Stratagems attempted to be put in practice againss him.
This made a very great Noise all over the Kingdom, and Set the real Character of Count Richard in So ssrong a Light, that those who before had Some Doubts concerning the Chevalier Sfamet.^ were now entirely on his fide, judging with reason, that Truth and Jussice have no occasson to pursue Such clandessine Measures, and that those taken by the Count was a plain Proof that neither his Claim nor Actions would bear the Tess of Examination, but that to secure the one and screen the other., he was under a Necessity of going on in a continued Succession of Crimes.
This was indeed so natural an Observation, that it could not escape the moss narrow Capacity; the lowest and moss abjcdl Delinquents are fenssble of it, and generally make it part of (heir Confession in their latess Moments. -- -- -- — The fmalless Vice indulg’d,
leads on to greater, till the whole Soul becomes one general Blot.
All these things were new Misfortunes to the disconsolate Anadea: fly was preparing to appeal to the Legissature, to give Proof? of her Marriage, and endeavour to force her wicked Husband to allow her a Dowry befitting a Wife of Quality; but the general Opinion now giving her reason to believe it would Soon be out of his Power, as before it was out of
his
Vnfortunate Toun  271 ^
his Inclination, to do any Justice to her, put a Stop to all her proceedin^ii again!! him, and obliged her to wait till the Astair between him and the Chevalier 3^fhould be determined. The Villainies pradiised on hersels gave her but too much cause to tear he was not, in relation to his Nephew, less guilty than he was represented : She refledled, as Some Author has it, that;
“Justice is Jussice, even to the Meatless;
“And those who Scruple not at petty Crimes
“To purchase petty pleasures, will, when “greater
“Excites the Appetite, adl greater still.
She therefore gave herself and Children over as dessin’d to be unhappy Sufferers for another’s Faults, nor could the moss Sanguine of her Friends now flatter her with any prospes of redress.
The cruel Count in the mean time receiving every Port Intelligence of some frelli Disappointment, was full of Horror and Confusson
-- -- a Vicissitude of the most dreadful Ideas
rose in his distradled Brain — he felt by turns every Pang that Guilt and enervate Rage can possibly infiist -- he found the Hand of Heaven was against him -- -- -- that all the Arrow's
ssiot against his innocent Nephew recoil’d upon his own Breast -- -- that the more he endeavoured
to defame him the more Shame be brought upon himself; and that all he did, instead of creating him Enemies, served only to N 4 raise
2 M E M 0 I n 8 tf m
faife him up new Friends. Yet did not all
this excite in him any true Repentance -- -- -- -
he saw unavoidable Ruin stare him in the Face, still he persssted obstinate in Iniquity — he had now recourse to the most paltry ill eohcerted Fallhood that ever was invented, which was, t) Spread a Report that the Person who calpd himself the Chevalier d.amesy w’as 01 himself a poor ignorant silly Fellow, and only made by Amico and Maeaxio, whose tqol he Was, to assume the Name of Altamont., and put in a pretended Claim to Estates, which if obtain’d, they were to have the best Share ot One would think by broaching Such an ^b ford Siory he mu St have been really as weak j; S he took others .to be, othervrise he might have form’d Something which would have had a little more the Appearance of Truth, or at least one that might not be So easily detedled; since even a Child might have refuted this, by asking, Where was V .and when
the Chevalier James deliver’d his Memorial to the Admiral? — Had he tbcu ever been in the Kingdom where they were? or had they ever taken a Voyage to America on purpose to find a Person toraife up as a Pretender to the Titles and Estates of the Count de Anglia? — — Had he at that time, or long after, ever Seen these Gentlemen, or even heard of their Names? — they then concerted with him this Plot, it must certainly have been by sh|uition, d, the whole Scheme carried on by mteljedlual
Conversations- -- -- Flesti and Blood could
never have passed Such x^nds and Seas invisible
Unfortunate tmngn^hkfhvtn.
ble to hamaii Eyes. Nor, tho’ both Amien and Matario were Men of excellent sense, was nerer fuspedled that they, any more thaii, the Chevalier had studied neerotnancy;
-- i — were Doctor Faujiuds in difguise, and could witha Wisti transport thernselves vrhere, ever they pleased,?,;
Nothing the Count had ever done render’d him more ridiculous than this Suggestion, hi, very Agents were afliam’d of it, yet would he, relate it boldly, and Swear to the Truth of it, .', tho’ he Saw a Sneer in the Face of every one. that heard — Doubtkfs he would have' denied the Chevalier had ever presented any Memorial to the Admiral, would notthc Let,, wrote by that Great Man have been andc.: niable Evidences against him, and had he not, been expelled Soon in Person to have given. the Lye to So notorious a Falstiood..
Everything, in stiort, and himselr most of all, seem’d to conspire to render this bad Man as contemptible for his Folly as detestable for his’ Wickedness, and ’tis possible the donfe qaenees of his Grimes might now begin to' make him feel Some little remorse, at least for thpfe parts of them which he found Such, isl Effects of, when all on a sudden he was prefeiited with an occasion of Triumph he had little expelled, and which, tho’ ihort lived,. gave Some Relaxation to his Vexation.
intemig^nce had been feiit him by his emis safies, that the Chevalier and his Friends were preparing to embark in a Small Vefistst the Naffl4 of which they Sent him, belonging to a, N y Merchant: '
274 mi^moik^ofan
Merchant of that Kingdom; and when every day he was dreading his Return, the public Papers gave an account of that very Ship being wreck’d, and all on board her lost.
The extasy he was in at reading a Piece of News So flattering to his Wishes, made him forget that in testifying it as he did wherever he went, he discovered the Apprehenstons he had been in for the Arrival of a Competitor, the Justice of whose Claim had been So fully allow’d in one Kingdom, and in all Probability would have been So in another, had not this unfortunate Accident put a Period, as ’twas thought, both to his Life and Expedhtions.
’tis certain indeed, that the Chevalier and his Friends had intended to embark in that Vessel, but were still detained by the perfua ssons of Several People of Distiiidlion, who found too much Satisfadlion in their Society to be willing to part with them till the necefsity of the chevalier’s Affairs required it; and be ssde, it was thought derogatory to his real Dignity to go in that manner: So that when they found him resolute to depart, and were convinced a longer Stay might be a Prejudice to him, the Government was applied to, and a Warrant for the Royal Yatch immediately granted -- -- Sure Mark of their being ascer
tain’d of his Birth! that being a Favour never allow’d but to persons of the first Quality, or such, who by their high Offices in the State are put upon the same Foot.
Everything now being ready — bufiness calling— — favouring calm Seas inviting

Vnfortunate Toun  275
viting -- -- no Pretext for detaining him remaining,
the Chevalier, with his Companions and Retinue, came on board, welcom’d by the Discharge of the Cannon, and follow’d by the. Prayers and good Wishes of a Number of Spedlators, who quitted not the Coass till the Yatch was entirely out of Sight. The little Voyage was as prosperous as could be hoped, and eight and forty Hours brought them to their intended Port, where being safely landed, they made all imaginable Hasseto the Capital, their Friends having impatiently expected them for Some days.
What a terrible Reverse did this now give
to the Expedations of Count Richard'. -- -- --
to be told his Nephew was arrived when he thought him and his Pretensions buried in the Sea, and that he arrived in the manner he did, put an end at once, to all his Hopes; nor was it in the Power of all those People, who earn’d their Bread by lulling him with false Imaginations, to Sooth his Mind or mitigate his de fpair, tho’ they exerted all their Force of Dissimulation
for that Purpose- -- -- found
iiimself now without Money -- -- -- without Credit -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- without friends without even Invention -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- no Expedient offer’d to ward off
the Blow, which must inevitably fall and crush him with its Weight, beyond all Possibility of ever rissng more. — He doubted not but the Chevalier would now bring things to an immediate Ifflie, of which he knew the Consequence— — ■ he was for flying the Kingdom, and thereby avoid the Punishment he had reason

Son to expect Stir Such a Series of Crimed t But whither could he go? where hope to be received or protected?? — ^ to do he knew not, or how to behave in this Exigence— — * in^ortuning — — Creditors persecuting -- -- -- Wants within, and Dangers.
withoutdoors shceffantly perplexing him— — Goritempt and Seats of future Shame, joining with fiuitlefs Rage and difapporntedre: venge, drove him even to the Verge of Madness.
-- At length, partly for the Relief of his
present needsnies, and partly through Malice to the real Owner, he made all the rich Suc ijiture, piqures, busto’s, and othergunofifies which the late Count Je his Prcdecdibr
had colkdled, to be tomdown and exposed to public Sale. This was all that now remain’d in the compass of his Power, and was indeed Some Occasion of Vexation to the Chevalier when he was inform’d of it; not so much for the intrinsic Value of his Loss, as feecauife he regretted Such curious Pieces of Antiquity, as he Iradi been told were weafured there, fiiould go out f the Farnalyv and perhaps fall eo the jlot of some who knew not how to make a propsf Use of them.
The whole Bodyof Nobility were no shonet inform’d! of this equally mean and unjust Action, by the pbinced Catalogues everywhere dilperfed atout Town, tfesan cried out against the chevafer j^d?iii^r^r and Ibnae there were, who ima pabiick dstembly were sh generous as to propolfe sarssng a Bank among ihciii, in Order to ptachase the Chief of those
Curiossties
 gnoueman, 277
Curiosities and make a Pfestnt of thum to the real Heir of that illaltrious pcrson 10 whom they had belong’d.
13ut here I must give a Truce to my Pen, and for a while defer the trosecution of Adventures, which 1 doubt not but the Reader finds Sufficiently interesting to create an xm patietice for the catastroixie. — -- ■ -
jsd * in whose tremendous Womb the Seeds of all things He concealed, axid who. Sooner or latter, ripens them to full Ectfaz * tion, now fly fwist, as when happy Lovers meet, and bring me oppor tumsty and Means of gratifying the Curiosity i have excited. So as the Event may give Honour to Justice; and to Oppression, Fraud, Violence and Cruelty, the Shame and Puniflioieiu they merit.
r I N I s.
BOOKS latay puhlijed.
ant I*PA M E L a, or feign’d Innocence detected, in a Series of syrena’s Adventures. A Narrative which has really its Foundation in Truth and Nature; and at the same Time that it agreeably entertains, with a vast Variety of Surprising Incidents., arms against. the frequent Mischiefs ariiing from a too Sudden Admiration. Published as a necessary Caution to all young Gentlemen.
A Companion to the Theatre, or a Key to the Play; containing the Stories of these celebrated Dramatic Pieces, viz. abra mule, All •for Love, Albion Queens, Amphitrioii, Beaux Stratagem, busy body, Cato, careless hus band, Constant Couple, Committee, consci ous Lovers, Country Wife, Distressed Mother, Don Sebastian, .ffisop, Fair Penitent,
. Fatal Marriage, Hamlet, henrylv. Henry VIII Julius ctesar, King Lear, Love for Love, Macbeth, Man of Mode, measure for Measure, Merry Wives of windsor, Mourning Bride, Mithridates, Oedipus, Orphan, oroo noko, Othello, provok’d Husband, provok’d Wise, Rival Queens, Silent Woman, spanioi Friar, Phedfaand Hippolitus, Timon of Athens. N. B. The Story of each Play is here trac’d to its Origin, brought down to the Opening of the Drama, and carried into the Catastrophe. Each Character is drawn in its proper Colour, no material Incident omitted, but the whole
appears
appears One regular and coatinued Relation j so that a few Minutes employed in perussng each Account, gives the Reader a jull Idea of what is not other wise known till the conclu lion of the Play. Price 3 s.
. An Apology for the Life of Mrs. Shamela Andrews, in which the many notorious falf hoods and Misrepresentations of a Book call’d Pamela are all exposed and refuted; and the matchless Arts of that young Politician, Set in a true and just Light. Together with a full Account of all, that palled between her and parson Arthur Williams, whose Charadfer is represented in a Manner Something different from what he bears in Pamela; the whole being exact Copies of authentic Papers delivered to the Editor. Necessary to be had in all Families; with a modern Dedication after the Manner of the Ancients, especially Cicero. By Mr. Conny Keyber. Price i s. 6d.
The Court Secret, a Melancholy Truth, being the real Account of the late Earl of Scarb — h’s Death) Translated from the Original Arabic. By an Adept in the Oriental longues.
reme?nbey that a Prince's Secrets are Balm concealed; But Poison if difeo^erd. Massinger.
Price is.
. A faithful Narrative of the Unfortunate Adventures, of Charles Cartwright, M. D. who, in his Voyage to Jamaica, was taken by a Spanifn Privateer, and carried into St; Sebastians. His hard Usage there, and wonderful Escape from thence. Price i s.
The
the i>eadi of middletrm L n the Life of Cicero, being a proper Criii'cifm n that marvel Ions Performance. By an Oxford Schoiar.
Monflmm hom'ndum.^ injwm^ ingefis., cut lumen ademiwm. vir. Price i si
Are These Thiiigs So? The Previous Question, from an Hignihmanim Ms Grteto,, ip a Great Man at Court,, •.
faiis., Edijti fam., oi^ue Bdtifii
fijusiisti,
tempus ABIRE tiei — — — — HOR.
‘ There berng litueilealbn left to hoe that ‘ either the Great Man, or his Tools, woald ‘ put in a Sarisla61: ory Reply to that fiirew’d' ‘ qn estron, Are these Tirnssts so? The ‘ Eng'iiniman himself h; ts most obligingly fev’d. ‘ them the Labour : Having just given us the ‘ Pleasure of an imaginary t^e ^ ts^rb Gone ‘ verfation Piece between his Honour and him ‘ Self; in which he has So happily iiiterfvoven ‘ the Substance ia a thoiisand Ga, etteets, that ‘ (were it not for the Vein of Irony which ‘ runs ihro* it, and the Wit and Humour it * everywhere abounds with) one would be ‘ apt to think it was really taken from the ‘ Life See the Qiampion N
Price I S.
The Great man’s Answer to Are Thef^ Things So? In a Dialogue between his Ho ‘ r.our> and the Englistunan in his Grotto.
Qiti cask- -- -'
the Author of Are Thest Things So? Price IS.
The Skimmer: Or the History of Tanwi and Neadarne. Intwo Vols. prices. 6d.
- The
.Dne Plain Truth, a Dialogue between Sir Courtly Jobber, Candidate for the Borongh of quz2..1edown, and Tom Telltrutii, bchoon inasser and tteeman of the stid: Borough. By the Author of the reniarkable Queries in the Champion, o^ober 7. Price 6 ff.
The Trial between J. G. B r, plaintiff, and M. M— — Doctor of physiok, dtfen dant, for Criminal Conversation with the prain tiff’s Wife; on Tuesday the 30th of June, at Guildhall, London. Price 6d.
The Genuine Speech of the Truly Honourable Adm — IV — u, to the sga.dfrcers, at a Coundl of War, just before the Attack of C — a. As Goinraunicated by a Person
of Honour then present, in a Letter to his Friend. Price 6d.
A Second Genuine Speech deliver’d by Adm — -1 V — rn,, the Salley from Fort St. Liaiara. Price 6 d.
A; Court Intrigue'; or the statesman detefl* cd.l, A Genuine Story delivered by the Ora gulous Ship. addrefs’d to his Flonour and the countess of Y— — — h. Pricers,
The ex pediency f One man’s Dying, to ffve a Nation from perifliiug. A Discourse delivered before the Ancient Society of True Britons, at their Annual Meuing, January i, 1741-2, V /' y.
Ei ineditktiir reip^yftois.i qui exfedam Fejiem etliqmm tanqmm stru mam Cmitatii. Cicero. By G. Thurloe, A. M. Chaplain to the Said Society.' Price 6 d.
A LE V to the Bulinefs of the Present I. tih>h»!^* -- ’s!, Speeeh to his -- Life guard
idfe guard’of Switzers, at their general ren dezvouz in D — g S — t. 2. Certain Important Hints deliver’d to an Assembly of Independents at the Fountain Tavern in the Strand,
Lhere is a Tide in the Affairs of Men.,
Which, taken ai the Flood, leads on to Fortune; Omitted, all the Voyage of their Life Is bound in Shallows anddn Miseries.
On such a full Sea are we mw afloat,
And we mufl take the Current while it serves. Or lose our Ventures. Shakespeare.
» -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Tfhb Gods
Grow angry with your Patience; ’vh their Care And mufl be yours that Guilty Men efcapenot.
Johnson.
Iuflice hath laid her Sword within your Reach,
Davenant.
N. B.' Phis is the Pamphlet which has already had the Honour of being Six Times bega zetteer’d.
And greatly conduc’d to the Removal of Sir R. Walpole from the Ministry. Price i s.
The Champion : Containing a Series of Papers, Humours, Moral, Political and Critical. To each of which is added, a proper Index to the Times. In Two Volumes. By Henry Fielding eiq; and others..
Quern legis, ut noris, accipe. Ovid. The other Side of the Question: Or, An An Attempt to rescue the Characters of the two Royal Sisters, Queen Mary and Queen Anne, out of the Hands of the duchess of Marlborough: In which, not only the most notable Strokes in her grace’s late unparallesd Piece are fully stated, and as fully answered,
but
but many important Particulars are remark’d on, and Several are explained and let in a true Light. Among others,
I. Her grace’s Treatment of the Birth of a certain Per Son. i. The true Reason of carrying on a Land War againss France, and neglecting our .Marine, in the Reign of Queen Anne. 3. Tory Lords (bred and born) became Whigs in 1701. 4. Why Tories and Whigs (turn about) were for inviting over the Eleftoral Prince, y. The Transactions of Parliament. 6. The Advances made by France towards Peace. 7. Why Peace was not made by France at Gertruydenburg. 8. The Renegade Minissry in that Year Screened by the Millake of their Ay and No Men in thehoufe
of G — -- -- --, then humbled upon new Lights
from their Leaders; and then Screened again; all in a Week. A third Part of the Army in Spain allow’d for Officers Servants, swallow’d at the Word of Command, 9. The Secret Hissory of Mr. Harley and Mrs. Mafham. 10. The Hillory of the good for nothing tall ragged Boy and his Sister, her grace’s Cousins. II The Broils among the Whigs, iz. The total Change of the Administration. By a Woman of Quality. He that appeareth firji in his own Cause seemeth jtifl.) but his Neighbour cometh after him and searches him. '•solomon. NB. The Earl of Islay, Said : This was the best wrote Book he ever read, and the nearest High Treason. Price y s.
, The aftediing Cafe of the Queen of finn gary; in relation both to Friends and Foes : Being a fair Specimen of Modern History. By
the
the Author of she Court'secret. Behold and see if there be any Sorrouf^ like unto my korrovj. Dafnent. The World had never taken fa full Note of whas thm art., had’jl thou not been umdone. S. Daniel. Price i s.
The Axe laid to the Root of Christian Priestcraft, in four difcoiirses. By a Layman. I. On the Importance of Truth, and the Origin of Church Grandeur. 2. On the Craft of Tithes. 3. On the Usurpation of Church Power. 4. On the Means takeii by the Priests to fix their Yoke. Price 4s.
The Year forty-one. Carnien Secularc. Quas res luxuries in avaritia in ra
finis fuperhja in contumeuir efftcere potuiffeti,, eas onones Seize hoe tn prahore per * Triennium pertuliffe' aiebcmt. Cicero.
* Read it now Sepcennium,. meo Pericalo.
Bernleius. Price i si
A Voyage to Lethe: By' Capt. Samuel Gcck, fomethne Cornmander of the good Ship, The Charming Sally Dedicated to the Right Worshipful Adam Cock esq; ’ of black mary’s Hok, Coiicyr skin Merchant
Omne tttlmpimiium qui mifeuk uftle duki.
Price IS. 6d; ^
WILL DOUBLE, e!fr. bv. Cfr. at Ccwjft, and in High Preferments. A dialogue between o dome, Bobb Booty., mf^>leaike» trupy. In the ivjonthiof Augtfft, 1741. anthhiivyumsmore fanbaefy Fheraefi d legibus : Peten henarem.propagkio more ft: Trinum. umamiifmtmdefititauer. Virg,
Price 64.
