^■wg|s|s^^b^^^ss|^^^8
THE
♦
%
PEREGRINATIONS
OF
Jeremiah Grant, Esq;
The WEST indian.
t
t
%
Ac pleriqite fua7n ipfi vitam narrare, Fiduciam potius morum., quam arrogantiam arhitrati sunt.
Tacitus,
LONDON:
Printed for G. Burnet, at Bishop bdmeds hiady
jrhndd jtmt/m the Strand, mncci xin,
• N
i
To the Right Honourable
miuarn Beckford. Esq;
LORD mayor
■ 1
OF THE
City of LONDON.
MV Lord,
was
the prosestcd design of
this work is to entertain
*
and instruct, I cannot possibly fix upon a more proper person
Jor a patron than yourself. If
a z you
(
DEDI C ATIO N.
you Should think it worth your while to employ a leisure hour in perustng the Sollowing Sheets, you will See the many disadvantages Creoles are, and must in general be Subject to, when Sent to England for Education. That they have naturally as good parts as the natives of this part of the B R I T I s H Dominions, is So notorious, that the most partial and prejudiced must allow it: And when those parts are duly and properly cultivated, that they may be productive of the happiest effects, your Lordship is a striking instance.
My characters are taken from lise, and almost every incident
I have
4
DEDICATION.
I have related has really happened; Some parts are purpose ly heightened, which, by that means, may operate the more strongly.
Happy shalfl think mysels, is ever I hear that a stngle error has been corrected by this book. No man in particular, I declare, is pointed at; but if any gentleman, Sond of making personal applications, Should think the cap fits him, let him wear it. I have not the honour to be a native of any of His Majesty's Sugar Colonies; my acquaintance of their manners proceeds from a long restdence in Jamaica.
But
I. 4
t
^ * DEDICATION.
But no longer let your time, which is So precious to your country, be taken up by one, who, is he has no other, has
at least the merit of being,
\
M Y L 0 R D,
Your Lord ship’s
*
I
Most obedient Servant,
And well wiflier,
.
/
f
The AUTHOR.
\
. *
^ /
1
V
X
/
f
I
/
%
BOOKS printed and Cold by George Burnet, at Bishop burnet’s head, near arundel street, in the Strand;
TH E Life and Actions of Frederic III
King of Prussia, containing the Origin of the house of Brandenburg, with an Epitome of the Lives of all the Eledtors of that Family; embellished with Cuts, Maps, and Plans. Price 6s
Rerum Scoticarum historia, audtore geor gio Buchanano Scoto. Sed notas Summa cura addidit Jacobus Man, abredonensis. Price 6s.
Anibffs Voyage, in quarto, il is clarke’s newton’s Philosophy, 6s Memoirs of a Protestant, 2 vol. 6s The Herald, or patriot proclaimer 2 vol. 6s
The Works of the Reverend Mr. Henry Scougal,
The youth’s Guide, is plato’s Dialogues, Greek and Latin, 2s General gordon’s Life of the Czar, 2 vol. I of
The Cherry and the Slae, by Capt. a lexander Montgomery, 2s
A Seventh Letter to the People of England, IS 6d
ADVERTISEMENT.
A congratulatory Letter to Sir John
P -- -- g, upon his Scheme of reclaiming
Prostitutes, is
The Life of Page the highway man, is
The Life of Dr. Florence hensey, is
A dlscourse of M. De Rousseau before the Academy of Dijon, upon the (^lestion. Whether Arts and Sciences tended to render our manners purer; and proving' the contrary, is
Age, 'an Essay addressed to Richard tyr rel, Esq; is
Female Rights vindicated, or the Equality of the Sexes physically and morally ' proved, by a Lady, 2s
Memoirs of the Bedford coffeehouse, by a Genius, 2s
reasons V hy Lord ^ * should be
made a public Example; addressed to every trueborn Englishman, IS
A Letter from jonathan’s to the Treasury,
6d
Fresh Hints from an Honest Man, is
An admonitory Letter to the Reverend Mr. Sterne, upon the Publication of the 5th and 6th Volumes of Tristram Shandy,
6d
A Peep through the Keyhole, or the Secret History of Some People and Some Things, IS
( «)
9
THE
PEREGRINATIONS
f 1
9
OF
Jeremiah Grant, .y; V The westand IAN.
| i i i ■ ■■■■ i nmmrnmm mm:
CHAP. I.
/
My grandfather was the seventh s^n of
a gentleman of an ancient family, who was possessed of a Small estate upon the verge of the valley of Glencoe, in ar gyleshire, which his ancestors had enjoyed for more than five hundred years : three of his eldest Sons had gone into the army; two served in the navy; one had studied divinity, and enjoyed a benefice in the kirk of Scotland; and my grandfather at the age of thirteen was Sent to the college of glass cow, where he studied the theory of phy sic, and at the Same time Saw the practical part of it in the shop of a Surgeon and apothecary. He staid at Glalcow leven years,
B at
( 2)
■at the end of which time he vas tolerably well Skilled in his profeshon, and was Sent for home by his father; the week after his arrival was Spent in visiting his relations; and among others, his father went with him to the house of his cousin Macdonald, the laird of Glencoe; this visit happened in the month of February, 1692, at the very time that Campbell of Glenlyon was at the house, and my grandfather, (as my father has often told me) Saw his aged sire dragged downstairs by his hoary locks, and stabbed by the inexorable Glenlyon; my grandfather, being young and active, disarmed one of the mercilels butchers, who was upon the point of putting a period to his life, and though the ground was covered with Snow, walked to Inverary. He remained a week at the house of a person ■who had formerly held a large farm under his father, and was by him furnished with money and other necessaries for his journey to glascow, from whence he had^determi ned in his mind to embark in the first ship bound to any part of america; esteeming it better to lie where fiavery was authorised by law, than to continue in a place where his life was at the mercy of Savages and barbarians : he was not long at gks
cow, before he found an opportunity of going
%
t
( B)
iog to Jamaica, and agreed with one; captain John Rudder, master of the ship called the Lovely Judith, who was to give him his passage in conssderation of his Services as Surgeon, for which he was Sufficiently qualified. They lost sight of land the iith day of March, 1692, and came TO an anchor in Kingston harbour the 2otk of May following; during the voyage, my grandfather had endeavoured to ingratiate himself with captain Rudder, and Succeeded So well, that by his interest Soon after his arrival he got an establishment as ma ?nager and docstor of a plantation, belonging to a gentleman then in England, with leave to .practice all the branches of the medical art, within five miles of the house he was young, plump, and had a ssorid 'Complexion, which last being an uncommon circumstance in thole torrid regions, got for him the appellation of the hand some Scotch doctor: among many others he charmed the only daughter of a neighbouring planter, one Nicholas Jacklbn, a Mustee * ’squire, who was possessed of a plantation well stocked, and capable of making two hundred hogsheads of Sugar, cqmmunihm annis., called Black rock, and situated about forty miles to the west of
, 2 Kingston: :
#
* is the offspring of a Mulatoe and a White.
( 4)
Kingston : to be brief, notwithstanding the difference of birth and complexion, my grandfather married the tawny heiress, Soon after had the plantation left him by Mr. Jackson, and in about five years buried his consort, by whom he had issue only one child, namely, Roger Grant, my father; when my father was Seven years old, my grandfather died of an apoplexy Suddenly, two years after which my father was Sent to .Scotland for his education, and acquired a tolerable share of School learning, at the high School at Edinburgh; when he was Sixteen he returned to Jamaica, at the desire of his guardians, who were willing that he should See what he had to depend upon : he had not been there above a year, before he fell violently in love with the third daughter of one Mr. Adams, a gentleman of Small fortune, whose person vas agreeable, comparitively Speaking : for if a woman, who may be reckoned a great beauty in that Scorching abode, was to be transported in an instant by Some magic art to a temperate climate, she would be placed at the fag end of beauties, or among the least ugly of the ugly : her my father without difficulty obtained, and lived with her for many years in the utmost conjugal harmony and affection; they had three
children.
( 5)
children, nam^y, Humphrey the eldest Son, Jeremiah the Second, and Judith an only daughter.
My Sather was a man of grave deportment, taciturn, and had an excellent heart, but was distinguishable by no charadleristic more than his kind affection for my mother: he was generally esteemed by his neighbours, and osten referred to by them, to determine any little difference that might arise in their affairs, he was not devoid a la~ Creoley of his share of indolence, but contrary to the usual bent of persons of his .country, an enemy to dress., His stature was above the middle Size, and he usually wore when he was dressed, a brown or blue grograrn coat, double breasted, a white waistcoat, double breasted, a pair of thin thread stockings, plain shirt. Square toed shoes, and a pair of round stiver buckles, about an inch diameter, a grizzle unpowdered brigadier v/ig, which used to hang i ipon a peg in the hall, defended from the ants and other vermin, by a double circle of chalk, and which when it graced it’s ^ master’s head, was covered with a Superlatively large brim hat; to which if you add a beard that grew halfway down his waist, you will have a complete representation of my fatlicr’s figure. His fingers'
B 3 were
( 6)
were .distorted by the gout, which he had brought upon himself by a free course of life, during his youth, and the large potations of madeira and rum punch, he usually took from his Calabash, contributed in no degree to correct the peccant chiragrical humour.
My mother was not ent^owed with the strongest natural parts, and was very remarkable for her ■ partiality towards me, her honey Jerey, as she always called me and as remarkable for an unnatural aversion she had unjustly taken against my eldest brother Humphrey, from his earliest infancy; she was vindidlive and passionate; but in her intervals of dilpassion, rather good-natured, as most pajffionate people are; in fine, she Was a thorough bred strongly riveted in those negroish habits, which me had contracted in her youth; and as to her figure, she was rather tall, and of a full habit, but made up of unsolid flesh, pretty near of a confistency with blancmange; in a word, she was a west in dian, and perfectly indolent: her fits of passion were often a^aged by my father’s pacific disposition; she usually wore a linen
night
^ is a fruit, the pulp of which being scooped out, makes a convenient vase for drinking out of, used by overseers, drivers, and negroes chiefly'
■'
\
m
( 7)
night gown^: a great white handkerchief to cover her neck, a mob tied with a pink, satin ribbon under her chin, green stocky ings with red clocks, and mens shoes, which last article of herdrels she constantly wore, to prevent the chiggers from getting into her feet; as she was a great doftress and much among the Negroe houses, the keys of the stewards room and other out houses, usually hanging by her fide in an iron ring,.
My brother Numps was Sent to Scotland by the time he was eight years old, but my mother was lb excessively fond of me, that she could not bear the thoughts of parting with me; my father had many disputes, with her upon that Subject; why, my dear, he would often say, your fondness is cruelty to the child; for aught I know he may go on in this way, followed by qua sheba till he is twenty : Reader, Quasheba, you must know, was the negroe wench that Suckled me, and constantly attended •me from the time of my birth. My dear, she would often. answer, in a drawling tone, honey, Jerry is but twelve years old, and you know it’s a weakly babe, and subject.. the fever; he shall go to England, V hen he is old enough : my father V as daily entreating that I might be sent to Europe;
B 4 and
C 8)
and when 1 was about Sourteen, one afternoon I was called by a negrce girl to my mother’s bedchamber; she was lying upon the bed, under a mussdtto set, and Sour negroe girls, viz. one at each hand, and one at each foot, her shoes being pulled off, who, as is the custom in that country, were tickling their respedfive members with their fingers, to encourage a propensity people always have, particularly in hot weather, to Sleep after dinner; as Soon as I entered the room, come hery, honey, Jerry, Said she; accordingly I lifted up the mus kitto net, and approached; your papa, continued she, has resolved to send you to lingland very Soon; you go to London, not to Scotland; I am Sorry to part with ■you, but you know his for your good and that you can never be a great man, unless YOU have a little learning. She clung
V o o
about my neck, and melted into tears; I was very much affected as well as my mother, and we both would have shed many more tears, had we not been interrupted by my father, who came in with a letter in his hand, which he had just received from his town agent, informing him that he had Spoken to captain Stephen Rudder about my passage.
The
i
1
f
( 9)
The ship was to Sail as loon as my Sea store, could be laid in; which was to consist of forty geese, as many turkeys, four hundred fowls and ducks, twenty hogs, twenty sheep, fifty dozen of bristol water, bananas, plantains, aligator pears, and pine apples innumerable, and for my own private consumption, a large provision of Sweetmeats, tamarins, ginger, cashew nuts, yams. Sweet potatoes, and So forth; at which, as you may easily imagine, a certain person, named Stephen Rudder, was not displeased; for it is usual to leave what remains of the Sea store at the end of the voyage, to the Captain, and, consequently, the greater that remainder is likely to be, the greater is the alacrity of the captain in accepting of a passenger. Stephen Rudder, however, was not adluated Solely by an interested motive in accepting of me as a pas lenger to London, for since the time of hrs father John, my grandfather’s patron and benefactor, our family had always endea r, voured to Serve the Rudders; which made him glad of an opportunity of showing that he was Sensible of the obligations he had
O
received, by taking all possible care of me during the voyage. It would require the pencil of a Reynolds to paint the affecting Scene of my mother’s taking her farewei
B 5 of
* i\merican fruits whl known in this metropolis.
%
( 10)
of me; in short it was with dishcutly that I was parted from her. Let a fond mother place herseif in my mother’s situation, upon the point of being parted from a favourite child for many years, during which tirne he w^s to be entrusted to the management and Sole dircftion of a Sugar fadfor, and possibly to be regarded by him in the same light as the produce of a plantation; let her imamne what must be the feelings of my mother upon this melancholy occasion. As I was mounting my horse to proceed to the ship, I was accosted by the whole gang of my father’s negroes, who gave me a shout of leave in their plaintive and Savage tone.
CHAP. II
• 0.
yc Y father accomipanied me to the
T V il town of Kingston, and went on board the ship, where, after giving me a letter to Mr. Balance his corresdondent in
- ■. ji ■
London; under whose care I was to be ■ placed; told me, “that as I wa, s now four teen years old, and did not know a letter of my alphabet, it was tirne 1 should be lent to England for my education : if I y wanted to return Soon, I ought to be the ' • ‘‘ more
.. i
\
T
()
“more diligent in my studies, ” He took his leave by a tender parental embrace and
left me to the care of Rudder, attended by my faithful (^uasheba, who was charged by my mother never to Sail giving me goat’s milk chocolate every morning ring the palsage, there being a goat icuc on. board for that purpose;; would be te^ dious to enumerate the different instru(fh ons Quasheba had given her relating to mf healthj dress, See. on the voyage..
On the first of June, 1740, we Sailed,, and being a single ship, which went tolerably well, Gonfidering she was Sugar loaded, beat up through the windward passage; captain Rudder was a thoroughbred Sailor, a man of few words, Superstitioussy affecst* ed, like many of his fraternity, by an accidental whistle or the flying of a bird; but ^ understood the pradlical part of bis buss ness well enough to conduct a vessel from Jamaica togreat britain; he was, moreover, honest, and generally good-natured; hii honesty was impeachable in one instance only, which is the more pardonable, as it is frequently practised by people of his eai* ling, and reckoned a venial fault; I mean the destruistion of Several turtle, which he had promised to deliverlondon — by his dishonesty I fared the better; it ill bceomes
me
t
( 12)
me therefore to mention it, which I should not do, was I not under a necessity, as a biographical writer, of concealing no momentous occurrence, that I was an actor in. Whenever he ordered the cook to dressone, it is easy, he would say, to tell them “it died a natural death”. Many of thole we did not eat, instead of being delivered to the owners, were brought, I verily believe, to a good market in London.
There was a particularity in our captain that I could not help taking notice of, and whether it proceeded from a con ciousness of his own ignorance, or from a desire remarkable in Some, of malting mysteries of trifles, I will not pretend to determine; but he was always extremely backv/ard in answering any questions which were alked him, relating to matters in his profession; when I aflced him how far we were from England, or when we should be in I'ounctings, he always had the same laconical answer ready; i’ll land you Sat 1 warrant you. Nothing remarkable happened during the passage.
■ On the fifteenth of August Lwas landed at the Tower stairs, and walked with the captain to Mr. ballance’s counting house, in mark lane, and Mr. Balance then being at his country house at Clapham, Mr.
Hanlon,
t
( IJ)
Hanlon, his clerk, gave the captain a receipt, acknowledging my sase arrival in London.
Mr. Balance having only a counting-house and a room over it where his clerk lay, went every day aster change to clap ham, where his family constantly resided;; being too late to go out of town that evening, I was bedfellow to Mr. hanson; the next morning, about ten, Mr. Balance ' - came to town. He was a man of near Sixty years of age, low of stature, had a roman nose, two little grey eyes, and usually had on a dark grizzle full bottom’d periwig, his coat the colour of Spanish Snuff, waistcoat, breeches and stockings ditto, which he wore from economy, as he consumed a large quantity of that commodity, and which would have injured clothes of any other colour : his complexion was pretty near of the Same colour as his dress, only a shade or two lighter; he was of a Sordid and griping dispofition, and had got a considerable share of the consignment bu siness, by advancing very largely for the planters, which is almost a certain method of being employed by them; for Some, from extravagance, others, from a desire of increasing their possessions, they are almost all in arrears to their merchants in London :
/
4
( H)
don: Mrs. bahance had been a fortune ih Jamaica, and had railed her husband from the honourable employment of a mill carpenter; she was a perfect cypher in life, affected by no desire but that of having a child, for which she and her hus band, I dare say, frequently, though unsuccessfully, prayed : being equipned with proper clothes which were bought ready made, two days after I had been at clap ham, having Seen the lyons in the Tower, and the waxwork, I was lent off to a boarding school, kept by Mr Concord, a clergyman that lived in a village upon the banks of the Thames, distant about fen miles from London; his School consisted of fifteen Scholars, twelve of whom were Creoles of the different issands, under the;; of Mr. Balance, who was concord’s patron and friend.
I was initiated in the art of reading by my master’s wife; to whose Sole direction I was committed for the first twelve months, after I was put to School; different, I would often ressedf, was my condition here, from what it had been in Jamaica; there I had twenty staves ready to sty at my nod; here I was the dunce of the Icbool, the tool and minister of every boy and every servant; I had no mother to take my part:
the
( '5)
1
the oppression and tyranny exercised upon me would have been insupportable, had I not gained the goodwill of one johnson, the most respedlable boy in the School, both upon account of his bodily, as well as mental accomplishments; which I acquired by my Submishon and civil deportment towards him. He was a native of barba does, had been bred the former part of his time at Winchester; but his father being obliged, from pecuniary motives, to employ Balance, johnson was by him removed from Winchester to concord’s; he came there a remarkable good Scholar for his standing, and was made to Supply the place of an usher; his friendship I found servi ceable, and therefore cultivated it with assiduity; and I shall ever remember him with gratitude; as the little knowledge I am master of, I am indebted to him for : con cord gave himself very little trouble about the progress we made in our education; he employed himseif for the most part in fchool time in mending his stockings; just before the holy days he would advance us into higher books : Johnfbn often uled to tell me, that Balance and Concord were tyro villains; and that Mr. Han sbn had discovered to him an engagement they had entered which he
would
\
()
would expose as Soon as he went frorn School; it was no less than an agreement, that Concord should give Balance a receipt for each boy’s board under his care, for twenty pounds a year, whereas, in fact, he was to receive only fifteen; and he was, in, confideracion of the above connivance, to have all the Creoles under ballance’s care, placed at his School : when this matter appeared, my Surprise at concord’s neglect; of us was very much lessened.
johnson was a lad of a noble and generous way of thinking, and therefore took every occasson of exposing the meanness of .these associated Scoundrels; the neglect of, our education was exceeded by nothing .more than the pedagogue’s avarice and rapaciousness;; almost starved us, and by way of comfort, would harangue by the hour, upon the advantages of fasting and self-denial. I was, however, with regard to this article, luckier than most of my companions, as my mother often Sent me money and Sweetmeats, all which I appropriated to my corporal Subsistence.
When we went to ballance’s in the holidays, our commons were increased, but v/e were excluded from the honour of his company, and Sat in the kitchen, where we always dined, except on Sundays; a circumstance
#
( i;)
cumstance, which mortified our west in dian pride not a little. Our Sundays evenings were always employed in reading the bible and Sermons : “I love the Weshln’ “dies, Balance would Say, and should have “staid there till now, but really they have “Ib little religion, that one may as well “live among Turks and Pagans; here, he “would continue, I have an opportunity “os gratisying my religious Servency; “here, I may go to church two or three “times a week.” Our evenings in the Christmas, Sundays excepted, were employed at playing at whist; johnson and the cook, commonly held the coachman and myself, the three legged stool Supplying the place of a more elegant card table; my partner at whist was likewise my associate in bed, and the gentle reader may easily conceive, that my morals received great advantage from his pure and virtuous conversation.
When we were to go to School, our guardian used to give us pocket money, pursuant to the directions of our parents, and distributed to each a Sum proportionate to his ag; e; and thosc who were old enough to receive gold, always had guineas or half guineas given them confiderawy under weight, which he got from his banker, be;
; '
( i8)
ing allowed a discount for the deficiency;; this was told us by Mr. Hanlon; we were young, and thought it better to take light money rather than none. The conduct of our Schoolmaster was of a piece with that of our guardian in the large muldls he iiied to impose on us, for the faults we committed, not ib much for our benefit or improvement, as for his private emolument. When he detedled any of us in robbing an orchard or garden, or committing Such Ibrt of thefts as are pradlised by Ichool boys, be would say, “It is no wonder, that you “Creoles are thieves and robbers, you are “all descended of felons and rebels.” One day, when he uttered a Speech to this import, addressed to Johnlbn, “Sir, (he replied) “if you had given yourself the “trouble to read or inquire, you would “have known; that if a ship, with a single“ “was to come to an anchor in any ‘S bay in Barbados, she would immediate“ “be sunk by the fortconcord denied the truth of the assertion; Johnlbn affirmed, it with greater warmth -, he was again con tradiisted and insulted; and, at last, enraged, to that degree, that he levelled his ainsworth’s didbonary at the pedagogue’s, head, which knocked him backwards in his chair, and deprived him of two of his
fore
/
( *9)
fiw*e teeth. — -- The indignity was too great to be put up with.; he went to Balance; bad his wounds speak for him, and prevailed upon his brother in iniquity to take away the offender; which was the more easily effected, as johnson would, at all events, have gone to Leyden the holidays sollow ing.
/ •
C H A P. III
p
Finding there was likely to be an end of my days of joy, by the removal of my protestor and benefaaor, I wrote to my father, desiring that he would send for me over. There were two other Creoles that I became intimate with; one of which, named Jacobs, a Kittifonian* by birth, got into my good graces, by teachr ing me the back fword, or, in more hurn ble language, to play at cudgels: the other was a native of Montserrat, named Stephens j the greatest part of our time was employed in this exercise, in which I at last became So expert, that there was hardly my equal to be found : In the holidays, baf lance’s Servants, and the barber of clap ham, felt the weight of my victorious arm.
After
* A native of St. kitt’s,
/
( 20)
After Johnibn lest School, what from an additional moroleness and acrimony, which Seemed to grow upon the pedagogue, and from the cravings of an appetite, which in growing boys is voracious, I found my life more disagreeable than ever. One day, in a gloomy mood, I proposed a Scheme to Jacobs, which he immediately approved of: “Here, Jacobs, (Said 1) we are Spend“ “our parents money to no purpose, starved by our schoolmaster, and neg “ledted by our guardian, who looks upon “us like So many hogsheads of Sugar; let “us go down to Falmouth, and embark in “the packet for the West-indies, which “will carry us both to our homes.” A good Scheme, replied Jacobs, but where’s the cash for our journey “Why, (Said 1) “let us Save our allowance, and Scrape all “the money we can together, for six “months, wiiich will be enough to bear our, expenses to Falmouth; as to our passage, we may work it over.”
The intermediate Space between our Setting out, and the time the Scheme was first proposed, was employed in perfecting ourselves in our beloved diversion of cudgels; being pretty lucky in our remittances; and what by borrowing and Saving, we had jaised about three guineas apiece: :
evening
A
( 21)
evening we got leave of Concord to go to Clapham the day sollov/ing, which happened to be a holiday, and having packed up two shirts and a pair of stockings a piecc, at three o’clock in the morning we Set out on foot for Salishury, where we arrived in four days; we travelled very wide of the direct road, or we should have got there a day Sooner: as our feet were galled, we took the advantage of the Exeter wagon, or we should otherwise have been obliged to halt a day or two. to recover from our fatigue.
The evening before we reached exe^ ter, we counted our.stock of money, and found that we had our original six guineas, minus., eighteen shillings, which as the packet would Sail in a fortnight, we thought Sufficient: we expected to reach Exeter at ten at night, and at a town about ten miles distant from that city, as it began to grow dark, we took advantage for the consideration of one shilling of a returned post-chaise; Jacobs paid the carrier five shillings for our places in the wagon according; to agreement. From Exeter we travelled on foot to Falmouth, which is more than ninety miles, in five days, and were glad to find that we had reached our journey’s end at So little expense. We took up our lodging at a Small: aiehouic in the outlkirts of
the
N
( 22)
"the town, where we expected to be reasonably accommodated; we now thought it necessary to balance our account, and see what we had to depend upon; when, behold, my friend Jacobs was two guineas short of what we reckoned upon : “I was ‘‘ always afraid, Jacobs, (Said I to him) that your thoughtlesshess would bring Some misfortune upon us; you are a good-natured unthinking creature, but “your negligence will hinder you from ever thriving in the world.” Jerry, he answered, this mishap gives me more un easmess than it possibly can you; but let us empty our pockets, and try to find th strayed sheep; our pockets were accordingly turned inside out,, but to no ef^dt, and at last we both concluded, as Jacobs carried his gold and stiver in the Same pocket;, he had given the carrier two guineas insteadi of two shillings, when he paid him in the dark; we comforted ourselves however with the thoughts that they were two of ballance’s Sweated ones.
Our account then stood thus, L s. d. Journey from London to Exetjer vo i 8 6i
To the carrier, in the dark 2 5 ©;
post chaife o I ©
f Journey from Exeter to Falmouth o 10 O'
Total 3 14 6
which
/
■ \
( 23).
'which being dedudted from six pounds Si: ^ there remained in our stock only 2i. ns. 6d. Misfortunes they Say, never come singly.;.; landlord upon inquiry told us, that the packet for the West-indies had lailed two days before, and probably there would not 20 another in less than six weeks or two
.0
months; after we had Sauntered about the town two or three days, and fully Satisficed our curiosity, we went to a costee house to read the news papers, and the first thing, 1 cast my eyo upon was the following advertisement in the London Evening Post.
Whereas two young gentlemen., about Um days ago, eloped from fehaol, and have never ibeen heard of Jince \- they are hereby required to return to their guardian, or to let him know where they are ferreted, and they may ■^end upon his pardon and kind treatment mr the future.
My fellow traveller agreed with me that we had better beg our bread; than return to, ballance’s. During our stay at Falmouth, a recruiting^serjeant and. two Soldiers of the first regiment of guards came to lodge at the inn where we put up; the sergeant was a North< briton, named Sawney
stevenson; who, as soon as he knew that
%
I was a Grant, expressed a particular regard and fondness for me; and treated.
me with uncommon civility Our
• #
( 24)
Our lodging at Falmouth cost us five shillings a week, and our eating and drinking a shilling a day erch; So that at the end of three weeks, we found that we were five shillings and sixpence worst than nothing : our Situation was really distrelsful; without money in our pockets, or a posh, bility of getting any; the packet, for aught we knew, not to Sail for a month : in this distressed state we Sauntered about the town, and was put to our ultimate resource, viz. Selling our linen, by which we raised only four shillings : one evening as we were sitting in the chimney corner, distress and melancholy painted on our faces, Sawney stevenson came up to me, my gud freend and countryman. Said he, you stem to be meelancholy; a Heelander should nestr be dismayed; this was followed by profesh, ons of friendship, and offers of his strvices and purst; his generous proceeding charmed me so miuch, that in the excels of my joy, at having met with So worthy a man,
I opened my heart, and let him into the fitiiation of our affairs, upon which he immediately forced a guinea upon us; from this time honest stevenson and we were inseparable; one night when opr amity was at its height, Stevenstn proposed a party
of pleasure, which was a walk to Penryn,
where
Andantino. at T' ^ ^ 45
****"” ^*^r"_^^ln^7*s7*'*e***^'*l""*****^yi*” ***'^^y*'y^^**4 — ^ p»».uy»i
■ ■ ^K I I ■ II I r I
I
• ^
.
w
%
C, -; v' '.
.;..

r
\
( 25)
where he purpoied we should dine, and Spend the day together; his Scheme wa agreed to, and about ten o’clock we Set out: when we had gone a mile, a glass gs ratifia was offered us, which we liked So well, that we repeated our draughts; the conversation after this refreshment, grew very lively, in which my friend Jacobs and Jeremiah Grant, engrossed no inconfider’ able part; another round of ratifia was proposed, and accepted of, the conlequencc of which, was music and mirth; stephen fon then began to launch out into enco
t
miums on the glory of his majesty’s Service, and in short, managed So artfully, that he engaged us to enlist; we had no; Sooner taken the king’s money, than in our inebriated condition, we were hurried away to the mayor of Penryn, who happened to be a baker; and the oaths were forthwith.
■t
administered, without the least Scruple or hesitation. We afterwards learned, that ste phenson hearing of us at Truro, had come to Falmouth on purpose to endeavour to ensnare us. Next day we found steven son’s fawning obsequiousnels changed into a Supercilious haughtiness; but we preferred the discipline of the army to concord’s flagellation, and Submitted to our Duty without repining. We were lent up
C to
%
( 26) ■
to the Savoy; and aster having gone thro’® the drill, and learned our exercise, mounted guard, and went through every other Service in our turns. Now and then a thought of my mother’s unneaifiness, when she heard of my elopement, would obtrude itself upon me; but I purposed as Soon as I should he tired of the Army, to discover myself to tny guardian.
I shone in the army shy my Skill in the back swordl, as much as I had done at Clapham; and the month that 1 mounted guard at the Tower, broke So many heads upon towerhill, that my fame was trumpeted far and near: the morning that I was to leave the Tower in order to return to somerset house, a Soldier came into the; guardroom, and told me, that a gentle man wanted to Speak to me; he had no sooner turned his back, than old Balance; appeared; it would be difficult to say which was the greatest, my astonishment or con fusion. My. guardian was at Some difficulty in obtaining our discharge, which he at last estedled.
One day, it Seems, when I was exerting; my kill on towerhill to obtain the valuable prize of a hat, Mr. hanson, ballance’s clerk, happened to be in the circle, who, after staring at me a good deal, hardly believe(
()
lieving his own eyes, reconnoitred me without my perceiving him; he immediately insormed his master of it, and by that means I was detedled; but besore we would consent to be discharged, we made it a condition, .qua non that we should never return to concord’s. As loon as L shad changed my military garb, and made rriyself a figure fit for the company of gentlemen, Jacobs and nayself were conduced to Clapham, where we had Letters delivered to us from our parents, which had lain at the counting-house for two months; upon ^thc perusal of mine, my heart was not a dittle rejoiced to find, that Balance had received orders to furnish me with a cargoc*' which I was directed to go over with by the first opportunity : Jacobs was likewise enjoined to return, and he proposed ta obey the Summons with as little reluctance as I did; my whole time was now taken up in making a proper assortment of goods, and looking out for a clerk; and I had the good fortune to find one, of an excellent character: : was a young gentleman of a good family in Jamaica, named Eugenio, whole father had died insolvent'; he had an estate of two hundred pounds a year, less: him by an uncle, which he had given up to his mother and fistec, that lived in Ja
C z maica.
( i8)
rhvica, and resolved to shist for himself by his own industry.
As Stephen Rudder, commander of the 'good ship Centaur, was riding at anchor in the river Thames; and designed to Sail by god’s permission, as Soon as loaded, without convoy; I resolved with god’s per mishon to give him my freight; though insurance was very high, which however was worth my while; as by running it, I should get to Jamaica by the Christmas market: thus had I made a Sudden transition from being a common Soldier, to a merchant; having Spent five years in this ifiand, I proposed to revisit my native .country.
My goods were all on board the first of October by the assiduity of Eugenio; a week after, the ship cleared out at the cus tom house, and fell down the river, and three days after, having a fresh breeze at ' northeast, we very Soon got clear of the land: in leven weeks from our departure we made the ifiand of Jamaica : as I had been for So many years absent from my native place, it is to be supposed that the difference between it, anei the European countries, would strike me in the Same degree, that it would a stranger at his first arrival.
Before
( 29)
Before we came in with the land, a fisherman’s shallop Sailed up to us, to take those passengers who should be impatient to get on shore; I agreed with the master to convey me and Eugenio to Kingston : as we were soing I could not forbear con
O D /« •
templating the singularity of his peribn ' he was at least six feet five inches tall, and as meagre as the knight of la Mancha; he had on a white nightcap, white waistcoat, white troulers, and check shirt; his features were strongly marked, and his face and hands adorned with freckles, as large as Spots upon a leopard’s back, he had almost lost the use of his hands and feet, by the dry colic, a dilbrder tradted in warm climates, by an immode i * rate use of new rum; his voice was drawling and feeble, and his Spirits received the Support they required, by a frequent application to the rum bottle.
It was noon when we landed, and my first disgust, occasioned by the appearance of the fisherman, was not a little encreased by several gentlemen that stood upon the wharf, in the same attire, except the trou sers, and pretty near of the Same complexion as the fisherman; they were all meagre and languid, and wore white nightcaps, with frills playing in the wind, and
C 3 were
/
( 3^ 1
were encumbered with a Small rotundity projecting, like that of a woman that if six months gone with child; all their motions were stow and indolent, to that degree, that it was with difficulty they Seemed to move one leg besore the other; their behaviour how -- ever compensated for this misfortune of the climate and their civility and hospitality to us, though strangers, effaced the preposessi on that had been formed in our minds. against them; we accepted the offer of a' gentleman, who pressed us to make use of his house, ’dll we could get horses to carry us to my father’s plantation; in going thte there, our first antipathy had like to have returned upon us, by the objecls that presented themselves in our way; we v7cre conducted through the marketplace, which; was filled with negroes, three parts naked, without any distinction of sexes, the Sun darting his perpendicular rays, occasioned » to be strong, which produced such fragrant effluvia, that the whole air was impregnated with them; which added to their barbarous and discordant jargon, formed upon the whole, a seen, some degrees lest pleasing, than our notion of pa radise is.
When I arrived at Black rock, I found
all the family assembled; and the affectionate
( 31)
j^ate reception my parents gave me;, watr in Some measure embittered by the bad character Balance had given me in his letter; it was in vain that I represented to my Sather, the tyranny of my ichool mas ter, and the villainy of my guardian; my mother was easily persuaded of the veracity of what I urged in my vindication; and loon pievailed upon my father, to promise that he would forget the past.
The week after my arrival, I received the visits of above fifty gentlemen, who all dined with me; our company at a vilit en tertainment of this Sort, Seldom consisted of leis than twenty guests.
The order and regularity observed in my father’s plantation was delightful, as was likewise my mother’s tcnderness and care of the lick negroes; here an adherence to the rules of equity and humanity, rendered the state of ssavery, chance had placed these fons of Africa in, happy, and to be'wish’ ed for: each family had a house, and a quantity of land allotted to it; which properly cultivated, was Sufficient to nourish them comfortably and well.
A whole day in every week was given them, for improving their little plantations, exclusive of a daily allowance of a herring, and. half a pound of corn, to each inc
4 dividual;
( 52)
dividual; by this means their condition ia Jamaica, was infinitely preserable to that they had been forced from in Guinea; and • here, courteous reader, whatibever thou art, whether a judge, a colonel, a merchant, or perchance, more probably, a gig ling miss in her teens, or who pretends to be in her teens, permit me to animadvert a few things touching this ssavery of the negroes; why then, miss, I do lay it down as a certain position, that if a negroe has a master of common lense, he betters his condition by being Sent to an European colony; .in Africa he lived in a continual'state of war, without any fixed abode, Subject to a Superior, fierce and Savage by nature, and a stranger to the feelings of humanity.
In the the colonies it is the interest of the master to treat his stave with humanity, and to feed him well, for he is Sure of a return of fidelity and labour: Some instances there are of a contrary proceeding; but the general practice is to use them with gentle ness. Now, madam, if you are dissatisfied with my argument, pray do you conceive, that I had not rather be a negroe in Jamaica, than your lapdog or Squirrel? Or if thou art a judge, and art not convinced by my reasoning, why, Mr. Justice,
- -- -1 cannot possibly help it; but I protest.
( 33)
i
test, the condition of one of my father’s blacks, was to be preferred to that ot one of your tenants in Derbyshire, orgloucester shire, or Lincolnshire, or elsewhere, who is obliged to keep a wife, and eight children, upon seven pence a day. As to you. Son of Mars, pray. Sir, take a walk upon the parade in St. james’s Park, any morning between the hours of eight and twelve. And, finally, if perchance thou art a merchant, Mr. Grant presents his Compliments to you, and desires you will peruse the following letter to his father.
• To Roger Grant, esq;
London, Aug. 17, 1756.
%
.Sir,
This goes per good ship, Jamaica
Planter, Capt. John Staples. I think myself in conscience bound to inform you of a transadlidn I was privy to, in which you are very nearly interested: You must recoiled!, that about a year ago, you lent Mr. Balance a commishon to purchase five lottery tickets, which he accordingly bought, and charged them to your account, marking the numbers in the margin of the
C 5 book.
( 34)
book, which I Set down with my own hand; he had Several opportunities of Sending them to you; but, for what reason, I was then ignorant, uegleded it; but one of the tickets happening to come up a 20001. prize, he immediately placed it to his own account, and gave you one of his own blanks in the room of it; I am now out of business, and have rro motive to bias the veracity of.
Sir,
Your Humble Servant,
Rd. Hanson.
This letter convinced my father, that what I had told him of ballance’s villainy, was very well grounded.
^1^ — — ■ ■■ — ■*1 — 111 ■! I II I Mil ■ ^1 — f Ml ^
CHAP. IV
I Found my eldest brother in Jamaica maried to a lady of Some fortune, who lived upon a Small estate my father had bought with the Savings of his paternal
one 5 the revetfion of which, at my father’s
death,
( 35) ^
death, was limited to him; it was called high grumps. He had returned from Scotland, fraught with classical learning, and though of lively parts, yet had not the power of making himself liked in conversation; his ideas were generally clouded i by the multiplicity of words he used, of which he had a Sort of involuntary fiow; my father would often Say to him, Numps,. you overflow us with shch an inundation, of verbiage, that a plain man can hardlyr edge in a word; which rebuke Seldom had the effect of stopping the Deluge; his pe -- riods in common conversation were of the' Ciceronian Species, and adorned with many high flown epithets and he was remarkably fond of what the Romans call fefq^ui fedalia v£rhat. He was likewise subject to ^ a dilbrderv not" uncommon in the present times; called the fcribendi, and was
engaged in. a literary altercation with the Ipeaker of the asseshbly, whose character I shall give the out lines of in a proper; place.
Numps had imbibed in Scotland a wonderful veneration for the antiquity of his race which he often ostentatioussy declared; in company. those foibles are peccadillo’s, when the benevolence and humanity
of his disposition are considered, he was
the
( 3^)
the best of husbands, and the tenderest of parents; his sensibility, with regard to the misfortunes of his children, was extreme; while I was at his house, his only Son died the day after he was born, and it is impossible to describe the grief he felt upon that occasion, which I cannot better represent, than by giving my reader a copy of the epitaph he wrote upon him, which, at the Same time that it Serves as a Specimen of his pure Latinity, will throw great light upon his character.
Hie jacet.
Quod mori potuit,
Humphredi Grant,
Infantis desidertiffimi,
Filii natu maximi,
Humphredi Grant,
degrumpis altis in insula Jamaic: armiger
Et Elizas Uxoris ejus.
Natus 25to die Jull: denatus 26to: ^atavis erat editus antiquis.
Nulla aliain re claruit,
Nec poaiit, ’
flosculus enim, in ipsa quoque dulcis tetatula,
Prima gemma pullulaturus.
I Parcarum heu parcere nesciarum
Fatal! efflatu contadlus,
Exaruit.
I mcestus
LI
ti;

V.
i:
n • *
F;
II
II
h
1'
i! V
( 37)
Mcestus itaqiie, et masrens Pater ipfiu s Charissirni Infantuli Sui memorise.
Hoc etsi mane munus.
Amor is Monumentum
Collocavit.
: When the church bell began to toll for the interment of the insant, he came Suddenly from his wise’s room, arid, catching me by the hand : “Brother, Said he, was you a father, and a fond one as I am, “you would excuse the heartfelt Sorrow, ‘‘ which, at this instant, environs the gloomy avenues of my troubled Soul, fly quicker “than the Wind, (adressing himself to a “negro boy; and lay my absolute com“ “upon that Minister of dismal and “dreary Sounds, to stop his doleful death“ “hand; ” in two words he ordered the Sexton not to rino the bell.
O
Another messenger was immediately dis patched to Kingston, with the following letter to his Taylor.
Sir,
AS my present unhappy Situation, by the death of my only Son and representative, calls aloud for Sable; I conjure you, to Send me a complete Suit of the
most
<
f
/
( ss)
most melancholy habilment of a nodtur -- nal dye. Your Servant,
H UMPHRY Grant. To Mr. Timothy Cabbage,
*'. O'
Taylor, in Kingston.
My brother’s wise,, Bet, as he always called her, had fallen in love with his understanding, and the courtship first began by a copy of verses she wrote in praise of him. She had a particular attachment to all people ot Superior understandings; but to others she behaved with the utmost cool ness and reserve, and kept them at a distance with an up lifted nose— — fu perdas adunco, — which, added to an af^dled halt in her gate, drew upon her the following epigram, fupposed to be written by one of the speaker’s creatures:
Grant, they say, has wit,
And Some have felt it.
She walks as if she was bef — t.
And looks as if she Smelled it.
The speaker’s plantation bordered upon my brother’s, who, by that means, had a better opportunity of knowing his cruelty and inhumanity, than the generality of people upon the istand.
Me was an Irishman by birth, and had
been
/
V
( 39)
had been Sold as an indented Servant upon * the head of a barrel of beans, together. with the commodity upon which he was placed; but by a steady regard to one only object, namely Riches, had amassed a large Sum of money; his name was Boat, and was lineally descended from Judge Boat, who is immortalised by an epitaph the facetious dean wrote upon him.
The Speaker inherited many of the wooden qualities of his illustrious ancestor; but as in all countries power follows property. So here Mr. boat’s vast possessions raised him to the speaker’s chair; he was of a pragmatic turn, and always showed a particular desire to adt as attorney for those persons who were absent from their estates; and, lastly, his loquacity equalled that of my brother; whether a rivalry in this article, or my brother’s detestation of the ipeaker’s inhumanity, occasioned the breach that was unhappily opened betwixt them,
I could never learn with any certainty; but I am inclined to think, that his cruelty was the first occasion of it; for it was notorious in that part of the country, that the Speaker tiled to drop hot sealing wax upon the faces of his negroes for the Smallest offences, and had more than once forced ordure down
Spine of their throats with his own h^nd,,
".... -
C 40)
All his negroes, without exception, ' were hamstrung, to prevent their running away. His usual food was crabs roasted alive, crimpt mullets, or a pig whipped to death.
Having once occasion to go to Hallifax, in North America, as he was a great devourer of bces, he Sent a Sat heifer on board the vessel he had taken his passage in, from the buttock of which he daily had a'steak or two cut, and had the cruelty to let the poor animal walk about the deck with bleeding wounds, that he might gratify a whimsical appetite. To give the finishing stroke to his character, he had been guilty of incest, by espousing his first w ife’s mother, for the Sake of a large jointure she cnjoyette, which, as the ecclesiastical law is not in force in any of our colonies, is not amenable to any court there established.
These unnatural and barbarous adls excited my brother’s indignation, which he lost no occasion of showing; whenever he Ipoke in the assembly (which was very frequently) Humphrey was Sure to answer him; and Sometimes they went as far as peribnal ressedlions.
My brother once wrote a pamphlet upon the conduct: of a certain commander; as ^ Soon as Boat knew that he was the author of it, he published an answer, filled with
. the
( 41)
the most Icurrilous personal invedtives; this naturally created an enmity, which nothing could obliterate, and each strove which could make himself the most odious to the other.
At Christmas, when the family assem bledi which it always did for a week at that time of the year, the Kingston journal was brought to Black Rock, as usual, on Saturday evening; my brother Numps, having pulled off his patroling * acroutre ments. Sat down in my father’s easy chair to peruse it; after he had been attentive for affew minutes, he got up, and burst out into the following exclamation I “Per“ “catch the villain’s traitrous soul! “what, to attack me in so cruel and in“ “a way! Barbarian as thou art! “This indignity shall be laid up in the in“ “recesses of my foul: Alie mente re“ “/” We were all amazed at this extraordinary Speech, which he Soon explained, by desiring me to read a copy of verses in the paper, which we Ibon discovered to be a burlesque translation of the la tin epitaph my brother had written upon his Son, composed by his neighbour Boat,
or,
* The militia always patrol at Chrillmas to prevent an infurreflion of the negroes.
( 42)
oty more probably, one of his dependants r, according to his desire, read as follows: :
Beneath doth lye,
of Humphry Grant,
All that could die;
The prettiest, dearest, Iweetest babe,. That ever dropped into the grave :
This lovely boy.
His dad’s first joy.
Was Son os’/quire Numps;,
And Bet his wise.
Who led her lise In place called High grumps.. Descended from an ancient line
This charming child beg^n to shftie^.
The 2 5th Joly,
A nd that was all that he could boasts For Suddenly his life he lost,
The 2.6th good truly.
This fiow’ret pretty,
tho’young, yet witty,
Just opshing from the bud,
A blighting blast from angry Sat, Who knows not how to pare the great,. nipp’d up his vital blood;
Alas! my only Son is dead.
His mem’ry i’ll adore;
Tlio’ vain, a monument i’ll raisc,
To show my love, and Sound his praife. till' time shall be no more..
t
( 43)
I hired a store in Kingston, and sold many of my goods at a profit of. three hundred percent, and entered into the creo lian pleasures with the utmost alacrity, the greatest of which was to dine under trees by the Seaside, upon turtle or barbocue;. the feast was generally enlivened by wit: and merriment; to which large potations. of madeira and rum puiich contributed not a little; at a party of this sort, T had the indiscretion to go into the water to bathe,, and should have lost my life in the ravenous jaws of a shark, had not my faithful Eugenio jumped into the Sea,, and prevented that voracious animal; from Seizing
f
me.
One evenii>g, when I was returning from; Supper at a.neighbour’s house in .Kingstcm,. the night Serene, the stars and moon shining divinely bright, I heard the Sound of music at a distance, my curiosity induced me to follow it; I was led through two. streets into a Small alley, and perceived,, through a window that was left open for? the benefit of the evening breeze, a genteel figure of a young woman, in a looie calico nightgown, reclined upon a Sopha; she held a guitar in her hand, which she touched with the most elegant ease, and which she accompanied as melodioussy as.
amightr
#
I
i 44)
V
a nightingale: The tune was as follows, which, at the Same time that it is full of taste, is certainly in a plaintive strain. - — Here I have an opportunity, according to the example of Some recent wits, to fill a page with tuning and arpegio’s; but it is at least newer to give the tune itself that she played; which, if the reader loves music, he will thank me for it; if not, I am Sorry to have a reader of that. Sort, and he may shut the book, and Bing it into the fire; but, let what will happen, whether the reader likes it, or not, it will at least Serve one end, viz. to fill up my paper:
\
I
/
^ * I
\
»
»
SONG.
*
\
f
%
{ +5)
SONG.
Come, my friend, come, let’s shiyi the heatj The Sultry heat invades.
To yonder arbour let’s retreat.
And Seek the cooling shades.
The twining jessamine beneath.
And twisted eglantine,
To flying gales their breath bequeath, Almost as Sweet as thine.
Dost See, my dear, this twisted crown, these flow’rs to grace thy head;
’ere night their fragrance will be gone,
o ^ o o ^
And all their beauty fade.
So all thy brightest charms shall prove. When with’ring age, draws riigh;
And what now fills the heart with love.
Be thrown negle<5ted by.
The veins that wander o’er thy neck.
Shall lose their charming blue;
The blowing roses in thy cheek.
Their lovely blushing hue.
)
On things divine be plac’d your joy;
For now ’tis in your pow’r;
More lasting pleasures your employ,
And Seize the present hour.
Having
/
■( 46)
Ilaving marked the alley in Such s manner, that I could not possibly mistake it another time, i went home to bed; but, instead of steeping, I could think but of The lovely object that had So enchant! ngly engaged my attention. In the morning, when Eugenio came into the store from his shed chamber, I could not help commu'* micating'to him what I had heard and Seen; •and concluded with a firm resoiution df going immediately, and finding out who shows. ihe'promifed To accompany me; and accordingly, as Soon as we had breakfasted, I led him through Several streets, and arlast came to a coconut Tree, which
d had made rny land mark. -- -- -- -- Here Eu
ofenio began to whistle the tune of the
O ‘ o
Children in the wood; and, when I had got halfway down the alley, he took me by the steeve: Hold, Jerry, said he, 1 be dieive it is in my power to make you acquainted with this divinity you have described.
-- -- If thou wilt, I replied, I will
: give you half my estate; -- -- -- -- he immediately
walked in, and, taking me by the hand, led me into a room where the lady was Sitting : Sister, Said he, give me leave to introduce my friend, Mr. Grant, to you. The gentle reader will easily conceive, how great was my surprise at finding this shper
na(
()
natural creature, to be no other sthan the Sister of my clerk Eugenio; she was dressed in the plainest, but most elegant linen, and when she rose to receive me, there appeared Ib much majesty and svveetness in her deportment, that she riveted very strongly the chains I already wore; her sense and good breeding Surpassed the agree ableness of her person; her stature was rather tall, her hair of a jetty black, her eyes large and piercing, and of a lively grey, and a Set of the most regular ivory teeth graced her Skiall mouth, which was Surrounded by coral lips; no roles and lil jies would be equal to her complexion, which was owing to her having lived chiefly upon the blue mountains, where the air is as temperate as at Naples, or Buenos Aires. Lucinda (for that was her name) •was sitting along with her two black maids, putting order to the family linen; she converled with as much ease and propriety, as if she had been bred in a court. My visit was abridged by the entrance of a rlervant, with the apparatus for dinner; but, upon my entreating the permishon of repeating my visit, it was granted with ineffable sweetness. I forthwith formed the •scheme of making Lucinda my Bride; which, the .first opportunity I had, I communicated
f
( 45)
municatcd to my mother : Honey, said
she, I hope you won’t be So imprudent, it would very much disoblige your Sather.; and, in consequence of that, he possibly might alter his Will to your disadvantage. I have, at last, prevailed upon him to leave you Black Rock; Numps has been long in possession of high grumps; but if you should disoblige him in marrying, be will certainly let the Intail continue, which, but last week, he gave orders to his Lawyer to have docked: Stay, Honey, till he is underground, and then you may do as you please.” The strength of my mother’s argument, for the present, .got the better of my inclination. My visits to Lucinda were, ■however, frequent; and a return of affection from that divine creature Set my heart at ease; we both, one afternoon, took our oaths upon the Bible, of inviolable constancy and assertion; and I entered into a private contradf, to marry her within a year after my father’s decease, with a penalty of one thousand pounds, in cafe I should be guilty of a breach of my promise.
My father, one day, when there was a good deal of company at Black Rock, had like to have discovered my attachment to this young lady. It is. she custom in that country, when there is a roasted turkey for
dinner
A
t ^
9 ^
"* I. '
o
( 49)
dinner, and the animal entirely devoured, except the rump, to fix that part upon a fork, calling it the rump of Some, noted beauty in the Hand; and those who have ^ a regard for the lady, or a desire to cat the rump, bid for it in bumpers of wine, or punch, the highest bidder carrying oif the prize; a wag, that happened to be present on the day I allude to, put up the turkey’s rump in lucinda’s name; the very name of that divine creature caused a thrilling in my soul; and when I found many candidates for the prize, I was not able to contain my desire of obtaining it, and I bid twelve bumpers the first time. My father looked very grave at this piece of extravagance, which, my mother perceiving, diverted his attention by Some nugatory matter, which she introduced for that purpose.
I now got very much into the good graces of the president of the Istand, who acted in the capacity of Governor, or corn mander in chief, during the absence of the real one; he appointed me his Aid de Camp, by which I ranked in the militia as' Major; I had iil<£wile the office of assistant judge, in the court of common pleas, conferred upon me, and, many an afternoon, Snored in conceit upon the bench
D with
I '
I.
*.
f: I
r.
i
■ ' (. 5 0)
With my brother udges. The Attorney
general was very prolix, and conlcquenth
an excellent Soporific, and whenever he be
gan to Speak, we used always to compos ourselves to rest.
I
He was bred an attorney at Liverpool and had acquired an absolute ascendani over the chief judge of the court of common pleas, who always made his decisions according to the dictates of this barrister; ib that no expense was spared to retain .him; and the Scandalous chronicle of Kingston charged him with taking large retaining fees from both parties, which he liad never the conscience to return to the party he was against.
One morning, when I was in my first stoze upon the bench, I was waked by a buzzing all over the court; and, inquiring the reason of it, was told, that my father, mother, lister Judith, and another family, neighbours of theirs, were overset, by a Sudden Squall, in a boat, going from the mainland to pigeon issand; my grief, at the loss of two Such tender parents, was inexpressible; Numps almost ranstistrad ed; and his wife bet’s affection to the family, was greatly heightened by her expectation of black rock being added to high grumps; but when the Will was
read.
K
k
\
(, 51)
read, by which I was declared my father’s heir, and residuary legatee, with only the legacy of two thousand pounds a piece to my brother Humphry and lister Judit'li, how Sour did she look, and how her brows were knit; Humphry, like Ajax, when he Saw Ulysses in the shades below, turned upon his heel, without uttering a word; and his Silence was more expressive than the most opprobrious language, and elaborate harangue could have been, -- -- I never
Saw him from that day. My time was now employed in Settling my affairs, and appointing attorneys to take the management of my estate; for I was now resolved upon a trip to England for improvement, before I married the amiable Lucinda; and, to assure the family of the sincerity of my intentions. Settled an annuity of three hundred pounds a year upon Eugenio, in consideration of his fidelity, and the eminent Services he had rendered me, not only in Saving my life, but in transading my businefs at Kingston and in London.
D 2 CHAP.
%.
V •* *
»
*.
*
( 52)
%
— - -- -- -..... -- -- - -- .......... — ...... —
%
CHAP. V
I
Having extraordinary good weather
this year, I made a crop of three hundred hogsheads of Sugar; all which I embarked on Rudder, and took my pas sage in the Same ship. The voyage was a common one; and, upon my arrival, gave my bills of lading to one Mr. commis sion, who had been recommended to me,
'as a very conscientious man, to whom I determined thenceforward to consign.
Upon our coming near the land at Dover, we were met by a fisherman, who, finding me eager to get on shore, had the conscience to ask ten guineas to land me, with my two negroe men, and Malatoe, wench that I had brought with me; which demand I had the extravagance to comply with. The next imposition I experienced, was a demand from a man that let carriages to London; he was rather more reasonable than the fisherman, considering the work he was to perform; to be brief, I could not agree with him for lest than thirty guineas, for a Landau, to carry me, and my retinue, baggage, c. to the crossed keys in grace church street; it was no wonder,
when
\
t
I
( 53)
when my two negroe men, my Mulatoe dulcinea, and myfels, who was likewise of a Numidian hue, were getting into the Landau, that the people should gather round us; what do you stare at, you devils. Said I, do you take me for a Hibou, or a Coromantee? Hark, Said one of them, they are talking their own language; drive on your cochy. Said my russet damsel; yoick! yoick! replied the coachman; and lb we left the attentive throng. We travelled our journey through, though it was the midst of Summer, and the Sun Scorchingly hot, with the landau open, to the infinite diversion and entertainment of the country people, and burgesses of the different towns through which we passed; as I was stepping out of the carriage in the inn yard in Canterbury, I desired the waiter to bring me a glass of water; Lord, Said an old apple woman that was standing by, de • me with her eyes, as I hope for Salvation, he Speaks English. As I arrived, in London. before it was dark, I immediately Sallied out in quest of lodgings; and. Seeing a bill pasted up at a ♦pastrycook’s shop at the corner of lombard street, without any farther ceremony, agreed for two bed chambers and a diningroom, at she rate of five guineas a week; from hence
D 3 I
m
ri
’ * '
> t
I
I
i!' X
V 54)
b •
I; went every day to Lloyds at one a clock,
, and dined commonly at commission’s, lite
I rally upon mutton. Mrs. Commission was
II a very gay lady, and uled to Ipend her
evenings at card assemblies, and other fa shionable divcrfions. She V as very intimate at the late mayorels’s, where, as I
; i; had often heard her say, there refbrted the
:! best company in town; I intimated a curiosity
to be introduced. Mrs. Commifi II fion had been, in her younger days, a mis:
: | to a younger brother of a member of
I Parliament, distantly related to a very anil tient and noble family, who, a week before
his death, had married her, by way of his casing his conscience before he departed for the other world; in consequence of which, she was extremely proud of her family, |; and took every occasion of throwing in
commishon’s teeth, the meanness of his i mercantile employment.
I Mrs. Commission, according to my dei
fire, conduced me, the Monday following,
I to the late lady mayoress’s route, which she
I kept on that evening. The dwelling of
this quondam queen of the city, was a finall house, of about forty pounds a year, in nicholas lane, lombard street; the passage was So narrow, that Mrs. Commission, with difficulty, could get
I;.. through
* }
I
i
I :
i ’
I
\
f
( 55)
through it; which obiter as her hoop was six yards in circumference, was no very extraordinary thing.. But her late Ladyship,. soreseeing this inconvenience, had, very providently, ordered the door of the parlour to be left open; by which' means, at the Same time that the hoops had more room,, gave her visitors an opportunity of admiring her sideboard of plate, which was Set out in the most advantageous manner, to be viewed; I was presented to her ladyship by Mrs Commission, who was So richly dressed, and ornamented with Such a quantity of jewels and trinkets, and, from the fmallness and neatness of her abode, that she appeared like a Fairy Queen; we had not been Seated above a minute, but there was a violent rap at, the door, and the Servant announced Lady Sugarloaf, who Seemed overjoyed to See the mayoress, as well as Mrs. Commission. The conversation was at first very interesting about the weather, and their colds: “Pray, my la dy mayoress, ( Said lady Sugarloaf) I “beg your ladyship’s pardon \ but I pro“ “I have been So longusedto call your “ladyship Lady mayoress; but I hope “your ladyiship will pardon me. But, as “I was Saying, has your ladysnip been at “the new Opera?” “No, Madam, answered
D 4 “lady
! I
i
II
'■ < 56)
I “lady Mayorels, I had appointed lady
; “Discount to meet me at the Stove last Sa.
.,
j turday; but her ladyship Sent me word, -
I “at Sour o’ clock, that she was Seized with
M ^ ^
I “the Migranc.” “If it is true, lays lady
■i Sugarloaf, what the world Says of her
! ** ladyship, her Migrane will last her, at
“least, a month; and it is now more than i ‘‘ a year since Sir Timothy has been dead,
I “poor man! ” Her ladyship, continued lady
“Mayorels, has certainly made the world ' “talk; ” “and it is with realbn, replied lady
“sugar loaf, that the world talk, people I “have eyes, and they will see; I had for“ “Some acquaintance with lady dis
I “count; but Sir James Sugarloaf insisted“
“a year ago, that I should discon i “tinue my visits to her. But, for my part,
I think the ugliness of her person should I “place her out of the reach of Scandal;
; she would be tolerable, but she is a vc
I “ry viper in her tongue.” “I must confess,
II. Says lady mayoress, that part of her lai
'“dyship’s character is very exceptionable;
“but her disagreeableness of person and !| “censoriousness, I could put up with, was
“it not for the vile perfumes lady dis
|: “count always wears; ” “perfumes, interruptr
“ed lady Sugarloaf, natural perfumes, I
“suppose, your ladyship means. ” Upon
i ' ‘ which
/
i
t •
i I
I
{ 57)
which ensued a loud peal of laughter, in the middle of which we were interrupted by a most tremendous rap, and in came the identical lady discount, at whose expense their two ladyships, Mayorels and, Sugarloaf, had been entertaining the company. She came Sidling in, and lady Sugar loaf, no Sooner perceived her, but she went up to her, and told her, she was immensely glad to See her ladyship abroad; she had been extremely mortified to learn from lady Mayorels, that her ladyship had been indisposed; and declared, it was So long since she had Seen her, that the time ' Seemed an age. Lady discount returned her many thanks, for the kind part she took in her Sufferings; and Said, she was Sorry she was so ill last night, she could not let her ladyship in, when she did her the honour of calling at her door.
The raps continued at the door, till three rooms, of which thd first floor of this enchanted castle consisted, were quite full. Tea was Served from a Small closet, and after the Ladies were Satiated with Scandal and cakes, card tables were brought; there were present women of all ages, one of eighty, one of Sixty, and one of forty, who
had a Niece that was two or three and twenty.
D 5 A cer
.j
; f ' •
)
; ■ _ _ ( 58)
I A certain instiiid led me near the last,
T I ^ ^
I, who whispered me: What do you think of i my Aunt? Should a person of her age aim
at conquest?? She is much to blame, I answered, she should leave that to you. A moment after, I happened to stand near; her aunt; who Said to me. Do you See that ' lady? She is past Sixty, and yet Ipent more
than an hour at her toilet today; it was So much time stung away, I replied; none but women of your beauty should employ their time in that way. I went up to the woman of Sixty, and Sincerely pitied her, when she Said to me : Can anything be So ridiculous? the lady that sits at that card table, is at least eighty years of age, and still she wears pink ribbons; she strives to be young again, and indeed Succeeds very well; for she, is in her Second infancy. Lord, thinks I, do we never perceive our own foibles? It is happy we can find con solation in the follies of our neighbours.
I was in a merry mood; now. Says I, we have gone upwards enough in conscience; let me descend, and begin with the old hag at the top: Madam, Said I, you are So extremely like the lady I have just been talking to, that one would almost take you for Sisters; I do not think there
is much difference in your ages. Why,
Sir,
( 59)
Sir, I realljr think when one of us dies of old age, the other should quake with fear, I do not think there is two days diff ference in our ages. I immediately went to the lady of Sixty : ma’me, Said I, I must entreat the favour of you to decide a wager : I have laid, that lady (pointing to the woman of forty) and you are of the same age; in truth. Said she, I do not think there is six months difference; this goes on rarely thinks I: I went down another step, and addressing the lady of forty; Pray, ma’me,
Said I, was not you joking, when you called that young lady your Niece You are as young as she is; nay, she looks battered, which you do not; it is true, she replied, I am her aunt; but her mother was, at least, five and twenty years older than myself; we were by different mothers; I heard my poor Sister, who is now dead, lay that we were born in the Same year. I thought So, ma’me, and therefore I might well be Surprised. If I could have got city routs often, I should have been very well pleased.
But this was not the cast; tired of a moping life, I was one evening conduced to Mrs -- -- -- -- -- ’s, under Covent
Garden Piazza, which, being a decent reputable house, and Suitable to my taste, I
dif
✓
>
( 6o)
discharged my pastry copk’s lodgings, rc mqvcd my Sable attendants to Commissions, and took up my abode at this place; here •, I resided, like an Astatic prince, wallowing in pleasures for a month. I was a constant attendant in the green boxes, and used frequently to open the Westminster assembly *, at which place, the Singularity of the company, though I was a tropical man, at first a good deal surprised me; the attorneys clerks, with Swords awkwardly put on; the city clerks, with their oaken clubs, and templars made ’squires, in conjideratione quinque folidovum, C sex denariorum \ the women in bonnets without ruffles, ssip shod, dancing minuets, in the taste of ladyxbab; the adroitness and double capacity ot the
Master of the ceremonies, who Served at
* 0
the Same time as waiter, were circumstances
that might have astonished, even a! • 0 ^
Xaplander, or a Patagonian. It was here |! that I first became acquainted with Lynda
'i mira, with ' whom I had more than once
the honour of opening the ball. During this course of life I had the fortune to pass fuecejjive thvou^ the hands of Messieurs Rock, Franks, West, and Ward; shr which reason, as well as because I was de ji stitute of a genteel acquaintance, I refolv
;; CD to take a house in the fashionable part
of the town. ’ The
■\•
't'
i '-
i
•I
1,
; L 4a .■
( 6i)
The Reader will not discrcdit me, when I tell him, that Lyndamira was easily per suaded to keep my house, and Set at the head of my table. The economy of my household was directed by her discretion;; took a leasc for one and twenty years of a house of two rooms on a floor in Berkeley square, at the annual rent of two hundred and eighty pounds. The receipts for my furniture were all taken in her name, and her arms put upon all my plate, which was denominated her own. 1 hired two waiters from a Bagnio, upon her recommendation, whom, as well as my two negroes, I, clothed in magnificent liveries. I built as handsom a chariot as any in town, and a phaeton, which might have rivalled the car of Phoebus; and kept four as good Saddle horses as money could purchase. My mornings were now Spent in driving Lyndamira in my Phaeton, backwards and forwards, along rotten row in Hyde park, estorted by my two negroes, dressed in my before, mentioned magnificent liveries, which, being yellow. Set off, to great advantage, the russet Saces of their wearers.
Occupat ille levem ju^erjli corpore currum \
Statque super', manibu/que datas contingere habenas
Guadet:
\
/
I
I
■i
.1
(62)
i!
»
Our evenings were Ipent at the Play, or Opera, where I did not disdain to sit at Ij the former in the boixes, nor at the latter
i; in the pit, by lyndamira’s fide. This la'll dyt am Ipeaking of was endowed with all
; L thole alluring arts Ib necessary to perlbns
eminent in the meretricious art; she had
hi
I tears as much at her command as a Croco
i dile, and was, in every other relpedl, mis
l trels of her trade, which was in no degree
|| • forprifing, as she had carried it on for, at
least, fifteen years.
I Lyndamira introduced Several young
|| men of her acquaintance to me; one of
I whom afterwards confessed to me, that he
! was So charmed with my creolian holpitali
I ty and generosity, that although his first
intention of visiting my house, was to dis i honour my bed; yet my behaviour was
j Such, that he thought he should be guilty
I of a crime, if he had pursued his original
intention. My passion, which was once So violent for Lucinda, was now totally extinguished; and I one day Sat dowiy. and wrote her the following Laconic epistle:
Madam, berkeley fquare., Nov. 6,
^ I "'HE engagement I am under to you,
for many reasons, which it would be too tedious now to give you, 1 think
highly
( ^3)
highly improper; but in any oath r respedl you are at liberty to command.
Madam,
Your devoted Slave,
And humble Servant,
JER. GRANT.
My mercer, as well as all my other tradefirien, had a general order to furnish Lyndamira with whatever she should think proper to take up; and, in six months aster my housekeeping was established, a bill was brought me in for sorty five Satin and lutestring negligees, she had taken up at the mercers.
No wines were permitted to appear at my table but Tokay, Cape, and Burgundy, even my servants drank Claret; all which was Served me by a woman of lyndamira’s recommendation, that lived in Little St. catharine’s. My dress was answerable to my equipage and table; and my expenses this year amounted to eight thousand pounds more than the three hundred hogsheads I had imported; which Commishon, after much grumbling, and a promise of Suture reformation, was pleased to pay.
Another
%
\
( ^4)
Another unlucky circumstance, which
m ^
contributed in no small degree to my unea siness, was a total failure of a crop for the year ensuing; my estate, instead of yielding me anything, upon a moderate computation, would bring me twelve hundred pistoles in debt; it was likely to make only five hogsheads of Sugar. This melancholy appearance of my affairs, made me come to the wise resolution of reforming my household, and returning to Jamaica, to Save money, and Superintend my planta tation; to which effect, as I wanted horses for my cattle mill, and, in order to bring my canes from a remote part of the estate to my wind mill, I actually bought fifty, stout geldings of a dealer, at forty pounds
a head, and had them removed to a livery stable in Piccadilly, to be in readiness to proceed to portsmouth, at the time the fleet was about to Sail.
As the Bath season was now coming on, I yielded to lyndamira’s Solicitation, and my own inclination, of paying a visit to that place; the neceshty of which she represented to me very strongly.
Now, by way of drawing breath, and to divert the reader, and myself, I will give him three Specimens of my genius for imitation, the first shall be in the Shandean
..........i style)
/
I
%
«
( ^5)
■s
style; the Second in the Fieldean; and the third in the Smolletean, which I look upon to be the three originals of English Romancewriting. The order I have placed them them in, should by no means be regarded as a mark of precedency; for the last is generally allowed to be at least equal, if not Superior, to the two former :. Sed queen de hoe.
Shan dean Chapter,
-- -- -- -- -- — Shut the Door. — -..............
lyndamira was of the Roman Catholic persuafion, which, as Bracklensteineus, in his book de Amove et Pudore., printed at leipsic, a year after, printing was first invented at Mentz, (which, anaong friends, was used many centuries before in China) very justly observes, is a religion, of all others, the most convenient for women of the calling.
She was, moreover. Sorely afflicted with
a certain dilbrder -- -- it was not the/iir<?r
uterinus., nor a cancer in the womb, ________
nor the disorder mentioned in Don ulloa*s voyage to South America, contradled by an immoderate use of perfumes, (which I
should
( 66)
should be glad, is ypu Meshestrs Doctors, Chirurgeons, and Apothecaries, would explain, but I do not think you can) the only description I can give of it, is a negative one; that is,. no description at all. But pray. Madam, why do you laugh? — I will not write a line more; — O ho, you think I am coming to the whiskers -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
-- -- Hiatus * * » * — » # ♦ — ■
— — — — Isuhrimahilis,
In two words, her religion and dilbrder made her think of taking the Veil: When? the earl of -- -- -- -- -- -- - was in the administration,
he had occasion, in order to Serve Some purposes of state, for a clergyman of a prossigat; e character; a certain divine was recommended, as. a person answering the description; who, during his tirne of probation, endeavoured to show his lordship, that he had not been misre presented. When he came for a final answer, the Earl told him, that he wanted one vice, without which all the rest were
of no use, -- -- -- -- -- -- -- And what is that,
pray, my Lord? -- -- -- -- -- -- -- — hypocrisy.
Pieldeayi
I
/
(
( 6;)
Eieldean Chapter,
(Which the Reader if he is fqueamijjj^
may Jkip over.)
'^ T 'HE post-chaise and four. horses, with Mr. grant’s American and European attendants, mounted on battered jades,, richly caparisoned, arrived before his door in Berkely square, about twelve o’ clock.
Lyndamira was just waked from her second steep, and, in soft stumbers, lay ruminating on the golden harvest she was reaping, and ideally anticipated those pleasures she was hereafter to enjoy at Bath, at the expense of her American cully; she thought, as her reign must be short, she would not Scruple to take largely from the store, which the poor, infatuated Creole imagined was to be as inexhaustible as the mines of Mexico and Peru. The pair having taken their chocoloate, a diet which Grant from his infancy continued the ufc of; band boxes, hoops, hats, and other paraphernalia, being stowed in the carriage, with difficulty they contrived to Seat themselves;; length they Set off between two and three o’ clock.
After
«
s
/
%
( 6?)
S
After changing horses at Hounssow and salt hill, they arrived at Reading; but, in the intermediate Ipace between the two last mentioned stages, there appeared a magnificent building, about a mile from, the road, and Grant had the curiosity to inquire of a peasant, that was working in a field hard by, whose property it was; why. Master, cried Hodge, Scratching his head, “a so “reigner man owns it; he comes from Gi“ “his mother was a Blackamoor, “and the poor man is crazy; ” “Why do you think him crazy, continued Grant ?” “That “house shows it, replied the clown; he “has laid out twenty thousand pounds in “building it, when he has only thirty “pounds a year estate round it.”
Grant, having Satisfied his curiosity, put his hand in his pocket to give the man a shilliiig; but, as it frequently happens, when it glitters without, that nothing Splendid, or Solid, is to be found within. So with regard to him; though his equipage and laced clothes naturally imprelfed the idea of riches on those that Saw him, yet his pockets Scorned to contain a metal that had been productive of So many enormities in in the world. His first application was to Lyndamira, who absolutely excused herself, by telling him, that she had put all
her
S (%)
her money in her trunk, that was gone by the wagon; it cannot be imagined this as severation was true; but this votary of Venus venalis had laid it down as a rule, from which she never departed. Neither to borrow nor lend; a maxim, in which there is more of avarice than of real economy.
He next asked the only servant that attended the chaise, (for two w^re gone forwards to order horses, and a third was still drinking with the hostler at salt hill;) the fellow told him, that he had lent his last shilling to John the Butler, to pay for the horses at the last stage; this mal a pert accident caused no Small perturbation in the mind of our hero, who had laid his account, to his having the expenses of his journey defrayed by his servants, which he proposed to repay when he should arrive at Bath, from a large Sum he intended to draw of Commission from that place.
It was dark long before they reached Reading; and Ibon after he had alighted, the Postilions came into the room, to demand the residue of the bill for the horses, the finances of the household not having been Sufficient to defray the whole; the Servants were now Summoned one by one; but all to no purpose; for the expenses to this place had asteady emptied all, their
pockets. This
%
/
r
( 70)
This dilemma was extremely perplexing to Grant, for which, however, Lyndamira thought shc'had found a Sovereign remedy, by desiring Grant to order the Landlady to lend him money to pay it; the Landlady was accordingly Sent for, who declared upon her Salvation, that she had paid the last shilling she had in the house to her wine merchant, not two hours before.
'Grant would have been utterly at a loss,
had it not been for the fortuitous arrival of his fourth Servant, who, we before hinted, ■had been drinking with the hostler at salt hill, while Mr. Grant was engaged in confabulation with the peasant upon the road.
After Tea was Served, Grant desired the landlady’s company again, in order to give diredlions for Supper; for, from what I the reader knows, it was impossible to
j think of going farther that night. The
j landlady might, very properly, be Said to
j be a woman of considerable weight; for
j thirty stones were incapable of forming a
I counter balance to her, a circumstance
I which, in her own opinion, added much
1 consequence to her character; her Size,
*. with no impropriety, might be likened to
that of Falstaff; upon the question, of what I could be had for shpper, being put to her;
! she affirmed, there was nothing but what
i! - her
■
( 7')
her house afforded, and began a long account of how many dukes, marquisses, earls, viscounts, bishops, and barons, had honoured her house; (arant interrupted this harangue, by desiring her to let him have a leg of mutton roasted; “Lord, Sir, she “answered, i’m Sorry I can’t ’commodate “you, I had the prettiest little fide of “Welsh mutton last week, that ever eyes. “beheld; (Mince a little veal then, continued
Grant *,) “O Lord, Sir, Said she, if you had been here but today at dinner, I had the whitest fillet that ever appear“ “upon a table : ” Very near the Same exclise was made, with regard to three other things that were asked for; at last a pair of ducks was mentioned; in which, she Said, she could Suit him to a T, This was an unlucky circumstance for an innocent pair, that had long lived in conjugal harmony and affediion; namely, a duck and drake, that were roosting in a coop at the bottom of the yard, who immediately underwent the ceremony of decapitation.
As lyndamira’s disorder required much caution, with regard to her bed, as Soon as Supper was over, she went out to the landlady, and gave her a strict charge, to lay clean and well aired sheets upon the bed,
and desired to See them put to the fire;
you
T
( 72)
you shall, ma’me, answered the landlady; pray, let me lee them immediately, replied Cyndamira; for 1 can’t stand upon these damp stones; i’ll fetch them in an instant; but never stirred; now the truth of the case was, all the sheers in the house were dirty, and she did not choose to let them be Seen off the bed; the woman moves like the monument, continued Lyndamira; at which the landlady, being irascible in her nature, thought the provocation Sufficient to return the charge; Marry come up, Said she, though i’m but an inn keeper’s wise, I think myself better than Ibme Solks, I was honestly married, thank God, and have not the sin of carnal fruition to an <swer for. what^dces the creature mutter? Said Lyndamira, with all the coolness imaginable; Creature yourself, replied the landlady, poor, rotten jade, that can’t bear to stand upon a stone; though you wear Silks and lace, I much question whether you
have a Smock to your a -- -- -- -- -. At this last
Salutation, lyndamira’s phlegmatic cho ler being railed, she flung out of the kitchen, and repaired immediately to Grant, and declared she would leave the house that
«,
instant; to which Grant, under any other
j circumstances, would readily have .consenti
CD; but it was pretty plain logic, that they
could
f
«
I
I
f
; j
%
« I
%
C 75)
could not leave the houle, without money to pay the bill, and hire horsesto go on:; and Lyndamira Soon aster refiedling, that is she continued her dudgeon, the reckoning must be deducted from her own stock, for this plain reason, because neither Grant, nor his servants, had a farthing remaining, resolved to put up with the landlady’s opprobrious language; when the pair rung the bell, that they might repair to the place devoted to steep and love; the landlady entered with the bill, and desired to know, whether the post horses were to she added: This was the height of malice; for she must have been Senfiblc, that Grant was unable to discharge it without a fresh Supply, which there was no possibility of his having had, between the time he had first ap plied'to her, and the time she brought the bill; he told her, that he had forgot his •pocket book when he left London, and accordingly dispatched one of his tartarean attendants that instant, though it was near eleven o clock, with a letter to commis sion, entreating the favour of him to Send him a fifty pound banknote by the bearer.
Lyndamira seemed not at all dilpleafed at the neceshty they were reduced to, of staying the greatest part of the following day where they were; and told Grant, she
E would
♦
!
«
( 74)
I
I would show him in the morning the hoiiie
in which she was born, in a village about two miles from Reading, where her father I and mother, and a Sister tiled to reside;
I whether they were living, or not, she was
i entirely ignorant, having never heard of
them since she went to London, with a ‘ young Nobleman of that neighbourhood.
The rofy fingered goddess had now opened the folding portals of the east; now I the feathered choiristers trilled tremuloussy
I through the grove the most melodious and
enchanting lays; the sturdy ploughboy had drove his jocund team a field; in short, the fun shone So bright into Grant and lyndamira’s bedchamber, that they rose three hours earlier than their time, and Set out to view the Spot, where Lyndamira had first made her appearance in the world; when they approached the house, they met a peasant, whom Grant thought it was necessary to question, touching the Situation and present circumstances of lyndamira’is family he told him, that the elopement of the eldest daughter had broken the old man’s heart, who doted upon her; that the Second Sister still lived with her mother, not without having incurred a ssur upon her character; but upon what foundation,
he could not Say : He added, that if they
were
t
I
\
i 75)
'Were going there, it would be labour lost,; orb had himself been to call there, but found the door locked, arid no one at’ home. lyndamira’s curiosity, however., led her to view the local; and she Sound everything in flatu quo although she ■had left it Seven years; as our pair was walking Serioussy back, and being arrived, at a gate, which led into a grove. Grant caught a view of a pair of lovers, just as ithey were finking out of sight. The active iparty Seemed, by the colour of his dress, to be of the military fort.; and his Dide> had the appearance, as well as he could judge from So great a distance, of a country damsel. Grant being a thorough bred. fportsman himself, did not choose to crois the Scent of another, or to be more explicit, to spoil Sport; but Lyndamira expressed a wonderful curiosity to know the parties, and declared she would remain at the gate till the conssidt was ended; in about three quarters of an hour they descried the pair; when the amorous couple appeared to view. Grant was not a little furprised to find, that Lyndamira recognised the female to be her own lister; while the fe males were conversing about family matters, the Son of Mars drew near Grant; and, after staring at him a conssderablc
E 2 time,
N
!
i
1 I
. i
■()
f;
time, very abruptly came up, and ashed, 11 whether he was a native of Jamaica? As
Grant was alarmed at the question, he re i treated a pace or two, and desired to know
his reason for putting the question; I mean no harm, cried the officer; I only thought I recolledted in your features my old friend Jerry Grant; Grant immediately went up to him, and, to His infinite pleasure, found this amorous warrior to be no other than his old schoolfellow Stephens, of whom mention is made in the former part of theft I Peregrinations.
o
Stephens told him, he bore a Com mission in an old regiment, that was quartered at. ' Reading and Marlborough, which had
f ^ been procured him through the influence
of a friend of his; that when he left Coni

cord’s, he went to the university of Cambridge; from whence he wasignominioufly j expelled, for keeping a woman of the
town in his rooms; and his relations in montserrat had died insolvent, and left him destitute. Whilst Grant and Stephens were communicating to one another the occurrences of their lives since parting, lrynda inira and her Sister came up, and were astonished, in their turns, to find that Grant and the other Swain converftd Ib freely with one another.
Lynda
( 77)
lyndamira*s Sister (whole name was Patty) was low of stature, fresh coloured, and, upon, the whole, might be said to be any man’s meat; she informed the company, that her father was So affedfed, by lynda mira’s elopement,, that he never after held up his head,, but Secretly pined, and, in two monshs, died of a broken heart; she Said, that she herself had resolved to follow i. a virtuous course of life, and should not
have retired into the grdve this morning with Captain Stephens, if she had not looked upon herself as married to him.:
Nec jam furtivum Dido meditatur amerem, Conjugium vocat: hoc jfrcetexit nomine culpam.
By this delusion shq cheated herself of her own virtue;. not but what Stephens had given her some matrimonial hints, which indeed is almost always done, when a girl is prevailed upon to divest herself of that precious jewel, which, once gone, can never be recovered.
i
Though Stephens was quartered in that neighbourhood, he was easily persuaded, as well as Patty, to accompany Grant and Lyndamira to Bath; Stephens having a tolerable Supply of cash, to pay the men under his command, as well as for the pure
3 pole
t
i
f
. I ‘ ^ _
!| ( 75 ):
. I ■ ' • -
! pose of recruiting; upon grancs mention; -
ing the cause of his being detained at Readr I ing, very frankly offered him his purse,,
I which Grant as frankly accepted ofi
I When the landlady perceived our hero
I furnished with the never-failing, nojlrumy; | the Ibvereign panacea, she came up curtsying,
and told him : • “She hoped his hoi
“nour would not take anything amiss..
“her passion; had prompted her ta
II lay; that though she was a poor wo
ij man, yet she was honest, and knew her
[ “distance, and hoped his honour would
I; ^ forgive what had happened; that if she
I “had a thousand pounds,, it should be ai
“much at his service, as if he was her own ‘ ^ brother; but to be sure, she continued,
II “your honour knows,, we poor vintners
I ‘ ‘ must be very cautious,, the times are very
'“hard, we have a power of taxes to pay
! “this war time, and the post chaises,
“have Spoiled the roads; for now a noble“ “Such as your honour, can slip down j “to Bath, with a pair of horses, in ten
“hours, and before a coach and six could “not travel it in three days. ” As grant’s i heart was uncapable of harbouring an ill
natured thought, he staled his reconciliation I with a hearty bust.
Two
|1
I
I;
\
\
■ I
'I *
I [
•' 4
§
( 79)
Two post chaises were ordered, and,, without waiting for the return of the mes fenger dispatched for fresh Supplies to Mr. Commission, our two west indians, each with his blooming beauty by his fide, stepped: into their respedtive chaises.
t
Smolleteari Chapter,
'm
eventng^s adventure in company with' three officers. Go before a justice— — their journey to Bath.
I
I
WE reached Marlborough that Even --
ing, where we joined company with? three officers of stephens’s corps, — the. major, and two Subalterns; the first was true milesian, and of a good family: — But had gone round the world, in the quality of a Sergeant of marines, with a noble lord, who is now dead. — bashfulness was no flaw in his character; he was brave and, debauched; —. the Second put me in mind, of my brother Humphrey, of whom no? dishonourable mention is made in the former part of these Peregrinations: He was
E 4.. bomi
4
()
born north of Tweed, and looked upon, by his brother officers, as a prodigy in elocution; the third was a raw lad of Sixteen, just come from v/estminster school, with a ruined constitution, and a mind fraught whtst vicious habits. Supper being Served in. Soon after which, the ladies being a good deal fatigued, withdrew to advert ' more freely than they could do among strangers, to the occurrences that had happened Since they parted. When a proper circulation of the bottle had caused a proportionate degree of ebriety, the major (whole name was Origan) proposed, that we should Sally out to a neighbouring houle of entertainment, which he told us the landlord had informed him, was a receptacle of complying shepherdesses, : But the truth of the matter was, a jealeufy subfist ed between the two houses upon account - of bufiness. And our landlord, being a good deal nettled at the Success of his brother vintner, who was his junior in trade,
^ did not Scruple to utter any falsehood, whenever he thought there was an opportunity of traducing the chara(5l: er of his compe
I titor. — The proposal was readily agreed
to by all the company; and the westmin ster scholar observed upon the occasion, if the Scheme had been proposed a week
ill before,
ill
ii;
;
; i
■ j I
; L
: II
i
.( i
before, he must have declined it, ' as he was just cured of a dilbrder contraded in dean’s yard, against which the Doctor had very forcibly reasoned, and had drawn his arguments chiefly a pojieriori.
When we came to the houle, everything had the appearance of being adjusted for that night; but Origan, perceiving a light in the kitchen, tapped at the window, and the door was opened to us; the hostler, who was at the Same time tapster, was regaling two of his rural friends, at the expense of his master, upon strong beer and rack punch; upon our desire of being admitted into the apartments of Some of their female boarders; the fellow told us, he did not understand what we meant, by disturbing a regular family at that time of the night; and desired, that we would go elsewhere j O, by Jesus (cried Origan) let us be after going upstairs; the hostler, finding that we were about to go upstairs, and that his fervid entreaties availed him nothing, endeavoured to oppose us by force; which he no Sooner attempted, than the hyber nean gave the word to engage: and poker, tongs, shovel, plates, gridirons, and other ornaments of the chimney place, flew
about the kitchen like lightning._______in
short, the hostler, and his companions, were
...... E 5 laid
4
\
(82)
laid breathless upon the stony floor. The noise this Sray. occasioned, brought the vintner’s mother, (he himself being gone upon a journey) to the foot of the stairs;. — her appearance, though decent, farther persuaded our leader, that it was, a houseof bad reputation: : “By my shoul (Said he). “we must go up, - my landlord gave me a.' “Sort, of an innuendo,. that we must go up“ “for, he told me, all the girls were “kept above stairsupon this information we forthwith made a dilposition for mounting the staircase; but w” ere opposed. by theurganda, who first counselled us to; return; but, finding us obstinate, honoured us with many Scandalous epithets, and addressed a Speech to Origan, couched in, these words : “I know you very well, you“ “; you was only a footman a “few years ago; you mushroom! you “upstart !” This farcasm stinging thehy berneari'to the quick, he caught the old lady by the hand,, and, giving her a Sudden jerk, almost distocated the joint. She; was extremely sensible of pain, : and, in her fit of despair.. her hoary, locks, cursed.
. the hour of her birth,, and the parents that gave her being.
While the old gentlewoman was bemoaning her fate,, we ran upstairs; but found
■ “all;
I
/
CT
all the doors we came to. Secured. - — To one of which the valorous chief, put his foot with Such violence, that it instanta neoufiy flew open; when we had all got into the room, the figure of a man, with a woollen stocking on his head, by way of nightcap, jumped out of bed, and felb upon his knees, desiring we would Spare hisr life: he Said, he was a poor wine merchant,. who was going to receive Some money at Bath; we desired him to tell us, if there were any ladies of pleasure in the adjoining; rooms; none, that I know of, he answeredj. there is only a methodist parson, and a Russia. merchant, and his ■ brother’s wise,, who are going to Bath for their health. —
O O ^ •
The dog lies (cries the Major) let us go » a little farther: — W e got admittance into the room of the preacher of the gospel, in the same manner we had entered that of the wine merchant; but this Ipiritual? pastor Snored So loud, that it drowned the' noise we made in breaking open the door we undrew the curtains, and discovered a. female by his fide; which personage, as we afterwards found, was no other than; the maid of the inn, who had been prevailed upon to have this new theory il — lihstrated by a few lectures in • experimental i philolbphy, -
yhhew
t
( s4 y
wh^n. the preacher was awaked Sroin his steep, he crossed himself several times, which made us suspedt he was a Roman Catholic in disguise; which being Suggested by one of the party, we drew our Swords, and threatened to put him instantly to death, unless he would confess the religion he was of. The fellow, after a short pause, burst into tears, and Said he was discovered and undone, and made a frank avowal, that he was a jesuit, under the habit of a disciple of Whitfield.
When we came to the Russia merchant’s door, we found it So strong, and well Secured, that it was impossible to force it. Having explored every corner of the houle to no purpose, we returned to our inn, and retired each to his respective room, and stepped, without the least apprehensscn of any consequences that might follow the night’s adventure.
About eleven o’ clock the next morning, \ve were roused by five constables, who came into our rooms, and showed us warrants, by which it appeared, we were under a Sort of necessity to be forth coming before a gentleman of the ^oruryiy who lived about five miles from the town. The officers of justice were not very importunate to execute their bufinels, So that, it \yas near
,,.. rm • ■ -•
two
%
( 85). _
two o’clock besore we Set out for the justice’s. He had dined, and was Sitting in an alcove, with Some company that had dined with him, enjoying the breezes, and his bottle and pipe. — He was in his nightgown and green velvet cap, and had one of the statutes at large open before him; when we came into his presence, he took us very civilly by the hand; but as he was accosting the Westminster scholar, he thrust his tongue in his cheek; which the justice perceiving, assumed a very Serious look Fray, “gentlemen (Said he) do you know what “summum jus is” and, without giving us leave to reply, went on : You have been “committing a fine riot! what, are people “to be drove out of their houles, and as“ “and to have no reparation for “Such outcries, ” (outrages his worship meant.) But mistakes of that Sort were very frequent with him, even in his warrants; he once lent a man to Bridewell for frying of Bacon (firing a Beacon;) but still his obstinacy was So great, that he persisted to at in the commission, contrary to the advice and opinion of all his neighbours that wished him well: — “Gentlemen, (for “you certainly are gentlemen, and bear “the king’s commishon, as well as I do) I dare Say, you are Sorry for what you have
“donci
m
N
. (' 86)
^*'mbne; upon paying the party aggrieved' fifty guineas, and that’s very moderate, “he shall execute a release to you.” _ Tho’ we did not much relish this lenitive, — yet,, as we found ourselves under the sway of this Bashaw, we were under a necessity of. complying.
The quarrel being thus amicably com* posed, we gave the landlord a crown, oven and above the smart money, to bury all in oblivion; who, to do justice, we must con fess was a civil fellow; and,, had he laid at: home, would, in all probability, have checked his mother’s impetuosity, and prevented matters from going to that pitch of madness they were carried to. — We inquired after the jesuitical methodist, who, ^ it Seems, had stolen off before daybreak.,.,
paying his reckoning,
\ *
0
0
CHAP. VIII
#
Having paid our part of the Smarr^
money; Stephens and Patty in one' post chaife, and Lyndamira and myself in the other. Set out from Marlborough to Bath j and as Soon as I arrived at thatt
placcy,
t
( ^7)
place, hired lodgings upon the South parade. The only thing I now wanted, wa to form an acquaintance; to obtain which, ^. Pgave a general Tea, and invited all the company without exception,. That evening, as I was standing by the fire in the rooms, the tables placed for tea, with the • name of Mr.. Grant written in chalk upon them, I observed a tall figure; dressed in a military garr looking, with great earnest ness, at the name upon the table, and afterwards eying me with great attention; at' length he walked up to me : “If I am not “mistaken. Sir, Said he, I have the honour “of speaking to Mr. Grant; ” you have • the advantage of me,. Sir, I replied; “whatc “don’t you recoiled: your schoolfellow ’ “and fellow traveller Jacobs? ” He had' no Sooner uttered the words, than we mutually embraced, and taking one another under the arm, walked up and down the room; I briefly told him my story, and,, in return, desired to hear his: “Why,, ® ‘ look ye, Jerry, Said he, I han’t got a “plantation as you have, which I heartily“ “you joy of; when I left ballance’s,. “and returned to St. christopher’s, I found" my old Square toes a quere Sort of a fish % he used to affect: a great exact: ness in his y expressions; and several times quarelled
“'with.
*
( 88)
“with me, because I Said two and twenty, “instead of twenty-two; and turned me “out of doors, because, by mistake, I “Signed my name Frances instead of Fran“ “As Soon as I left his iiouse, I enter“ “on board a privateer; and when I “returned from my cruile, the old hum“ “had taken it into his head to die, and left me only three hundred pounds; “with which I have purchased a Second “lieutenancy of marines, and my pay is “all I have to depend upon.” Though I was in reality much affeded with this recital; yet, at first, I could not forbear laughing at the old man’s exadlnels in diction and orthography being lb great, that he disinherited his Son, for the want of it. Jacobs I told me, that his ship was then lying in
1 king’s road, near Bristol; and we made a
! party to dine on board the day follow!
!
’ I dressed the richest and gayest of any
i, man at Bath; and was remarkable for nothing
more, than the nicety of my hair, which was dressed constantly twice a day; and I was generally reckoned a man of ten thousand pounds a year fortune; a report first Spread by my Bagnio attendants, and confirmed by the appearance I made. I now became a member of the Wednesday
Creole
0
( 89)
creole club, which consisted of Will Hurricane, Phil Caliban, Jack muscavado, tom my Skeleton, Stephens, Jacobs, cum multis aliis.t most of them geniuses of the first clast; our reckoning Seldom amounted to less than eioht guineas a head which could hardly be lei's, considering our dinner was ordered at two guineas each.
Having a particular inclination to get acquainted with a certain personage, who has thought proper to fix his retreat in this city of plenty and diversion, whose good qualities have made his company very much coveted; Jacobs was instrumental in effedl ing this matter, by procuring me a turtle, from a captain of a merchant ship, lately arrived at Bristol from St. christopher’s'; to partake of which I gave a pretty general invitation to all remarkable persons, that were assembled at the fountain of health, in which number the man, I allude to, may very properly be included; his name, to avoid circumlocution, I will call Horatio; he had early appeared upon the stage, and had built the Superstrudlure of his fortune upon the foundation of a legacy of one thousand pounds, which a woman he long cohabited with, according to the laws of nature, had left him. There was. likewise present, at my turtle feast, a certain
peer
«
I
I
I ( 90)
peer of Ireland, whose title was Sparkle j he came down to Bath with his dowager, who was then at the point of death; this nobleman had many good qualities, blended with Ibme of the greatest faults; he had parts; was a great fensualist; and was remarkable for his passion for driving stage and hackney coaches, in which art he was generally esteemed the greatest proficient of the age; as his good qualities had a great affinity to those of Horatio, that possibly may be the reason for which they were inseparable.
I was now known by no other name than that of Prince Grant; and as my title was elevated, resolved to keep none company, but those of a Superior Sort; in short, I became, what is not improperly called, a quality binder, and conceived a particular antipathy to a plain coat, or a bob wig ^ and worshipped any creature, however insignificant, graced by chance with a title; my respeft and attention being proportioned to the degree of nobility. As I was frequently at Lord sparkle’s elbow, I, by that means, contraded an intimacy with Horatio, and took a singular delight in the conversation of this quondam hero of the theatre; he diverted us infinitely by curious anecdotes relating to the great, among
whom,.
#
>
%
( 9^)
wbfom, he had a good deal lived; and, I eonfess, I always thought him more engaging in a chit-chat, than over a bottle.
One evening, in a party of the former Sort, Horatio expressed himself in the following words: One night, after my
“bufiness upon the stage was over, as I was; “sitting in the Bedford coffeehouse, drink“ “my mug of beer, and eating my oysters, his Grace of Wharton, with two' or three of his madcap companions came in; as Soon as he Saw me, he cried, what“ “you alive? I thought long before “this, you had been hanged, or dead of the X ” the reader will easily be able to Substitute the word intended by the cross,, algebraical sign of multiplication 5, which I have the rather chosen, as I am descended of Scottish ancestors, it being a St. andrew’s Cross, and, for that rea ibn more properly belonging,, or appertaining to my name, than a St. george’s cross, or a crosslet, or an union cross 5 and I think answers the purpose full as well as a Shandean star, or, peradventure,. better; as what is meant, in this place, is certainly a cross— — cross. in love; the reply my friend made to the duke’s observation, has more wit in it than most things that ever were Said; which every
personj,
%
(' 9^)
person, who has the least Spark of wit, or knows what wit is, ni’ st allow; but
r“ “
thing called wit, is osten mistaken.
Locke tells us, it is a quick assemblage of ideas, and putting those together with quickness and variety, wherein can be Sound any resemblance or congruity, thereby to make up pleasant pidiures in the fancy. Dryden informs us, it is a propriety of 'thoughts and words, or,, in other terms, thoughts and words elegantly adapted to the Subje<51:. Pope says, it is a quick conception, and an easy delivery.. Boileau Says it consists in presenting to the reader true thoughts and just expressions.
The mind of man is naturally full of an infinite number of confused ideas of what is just, which it often perceives but by halves; and nothing is more agreeable to it, than when Some of those ideas are presented to it very clearly and distinduy, What is a new, brilliant, and extraordinary thought ^ It is not, as ignorant people think, a thought which nobody has ever had; it is, on the contrary,, a thought which any one may hit upon, and which Some one has been So lucky as to be the first person that uttered it; a hon mot is a bon. mot only, because it represents a thing, which every one thinks, and expresses it in astively, delicate,
and
1
4
*
\
( O '^)
VI y ef /
and neci manner.. Let us consider, for instance, that famous orply of Lewis XII to Some of li' s mindtcis, who advised him to punish Several persons, who, under the preceding reign, and whilst he was only Duke of Orleans, had endeavoured to injure him A king of France (fie answer ed) should not revenge the duke of orleans’s injuries.” What is the reason of this expression immediately striking us? is it not easy to See *, it is because it presents to us a truth, which a’l the world must allow, and that it expresses better than the most elaborate. dissertation of morality, that a great prince, 'being placed upon the throne, ought not to al from private motives, nor to have other views, than the glory and general welfare of his dominion’s.
Now, whatever be wit, 'whether it is what Locke defines, or what Dryden or Pope Says, or what despreaux describes, let it be which of them you will, I still maintain, that my friend’s repartee had more wit in it, than most things that have been Saidu The duke told him before this, “he ima“ “he was cither hanged, or dead of “the X; ” “Then, my lord duke, (answered my friend) “I must have embraced “your grace’s principles, or your grace’s wh — res.”
«,
As
4
( 94)
As neither Jacobs nor stephens’s finances would permit them to keep the best company in town *, to my shame I must com fess, although I was indebted to the Sormer for what he had lent me at Reading, I frequently used to affect not to See them, when they came into the long rooms, which they very properly resented by negledling me in their turns.
The Summer now advancing apace, I hired a magnificent Seat in Gloucestershire, called ingerford park, for which I was to pay eight hundred guineas; it had a ipa cious park belonging to it, and was very elegantly furnished; all my servants were ordered down from London, and I rernov ed Lyndamira thither, who had invited her sister to pass the Summer with her. I gave Sparkle an invitation to Spend a month, as well as Horatio; the former excused himself, for the present, upon account of his dowager’s death, whosc corps he was obliged to attend to the family vault near London; but promised, as Soon as that was done, to return to me in Gloucestershire; and Said, he had a Scheme to propose, which would divert us for a considerable time; His lordship, according to his word, .attended his mother to the grave; and, that lie might do the honours more corn
pleatly,
/
m •
%
t
( 95)
pleatly, personally drove up the hearsc that conveyed her body; and, at the Same time ^ that he discharged a duty that was incumbent upon him, gratified his favourite pas fion for driving; Horatio agreed to honour me with his company; but upon condition, that I should Supply him twice a week with John Dorees; which I promised, and Sent orders to Plymouth to have a dozen dispatched to me twice a week, during the season, by express.
One evening, after Lyndamira and Patty had retired, I pressed Horatio to gratify a desire I had Ions; entertained, to know the particulars of his life; he told me, there was nothing very interesting in it; but that. Such as it was, as I desired it, he would willingly recite it; alter he had taken a bumper of claret, he began, as follows:
“I am the Ion of a Grocer, in a Small town in Warwickshire; my father was reputed a man of tolerable Substance, and Sent me, by the time that I was Seven years old, to the free school in Warwick; where I was grounded in Latin, and acquired a, Smattering in the Greek tongue, and particularly excelled in declamation. I was early an admirer of the theatre, and Shake ipear was my favourite author, from the time I first could read him. My father,
con(
()
contrary to the expedlations of his friends and neighbours, died very much in debt, and his children, which were eight in number, lest entirely destitute. When this event happened, I was of the age of fifteen, and though i had the offer oi having the shop continued to me; yet, as my genius lay in declamation, I relblved to Sollow it. I therefore went over to Coventry, where 1 enlisted in a troop of strolling players, that were exhibiting in that city. I was put to the lowest characters, which So mortified my ambition, that, as Soon as we 'came within a Small distance of London, I took my leave of my fellow comedians, and ■presented myself to one of the managers of the king’s theatres; I was by him referred to the principal astor, who, after many exceptions to the clumfiness of my person, diired me for the season as a third-rate; for we have rates behind the Scenes, as well as they have in the navy.
“The first five years I could not get higher than the lieutenant of the Tower in Richard the third, or Rofincraus in Hamlet. But, as I paid great court to Booth, whole manner I imitated, and made the model I went upon, by steps I at last rose to the first class. When I arrived in this station, I became intimate with one of the first adtresses,
with
0^
t 97)
with whom I asterwards long cohabited, and shall ever think of her with reverence and esteem; when she died she left me a thousand pounds; the cornerstone upon which I have railed the comfortable pittance I am master of. Before this event, I had no idea of the value of money, or the difficulty of getting it; but now finding, that money makes money, I laid it down as a rule thenceforwards, to Save a third part of my income; which I ever aster adhered to, during my continuance in the Service of the public.
“As I was now known to be a man of property, many of the adtresses of the first class, laid all the Snares they could, to draw me into matrimony; a trap which, I hope, to have discretion enough always to avoid; for I look upon that state as a civil death, and people, that have the misfortune to be in it, as only the ghosts of men; the famous
Mrs W -- -- -- n, in particular, levelled her
battery at me; but she was a bad canoneer, and not a shot took place. One evening, when I was playing with a Spaniel, which formerly belonged to my defunct benefadt ress, the lady I am Speaking of, came up to me : “lam glad. Sir, (Said she), you “love Something in the world.’* “Yes * ^ Madam, I answered her, I love a dog,
¥ but
r
( 9^)
but I hate a bitch.” This repartee So ef fe<5iually cured the lady bs her intentions upon my celibacy, that she Seldom ever after troubled me with her coqueteries.
“One night, when I personated the character of Called, in the Siege of damascus; and, at the end of the third adt, when I came off the stage, having repeated that •celebrated description of paradise:
a’hinkthat ye all to certain triumph move % Who falls in sight, yet meets the Prize above. Lhere in the gardens of eternal Jpring,
While birds of Paradise around you fmg. Each with his blooming beauty by his fide., Shall drink rich wines that in full rivers glide Breathe fragrant gates der fields of spice that
blow.,
And gather fruits immortal as they grow. Ecflatic bliss Shall your whole powers employ.
And epry sense be lojl in efiry fey.
V
A liedtic parson, That ‘happened toshe stanci ing by, gave hinffelf therairs, to find Sauk •with it, ‘’what, dcdlor (Says I) is St not “better ihaii Singing hallaluja’s upon a “cloud in buff” This So enraged the japanned critic, that he Serioussy endeavoured to injure me with the town, and fre .quently made parties, in the shilling gahc'
ry,
• V.., _
(■ 99)
ry, to hiss and pelt me.. I consest, I was not a little vexed to find, that it was in the power of any reptile, like him, to hurt a man, that had laid the world under a con fiderable obligation, which I think an actor of my eminence does.
“I now began to lost my teeth, which a good deal affected my utterance.; I therefore liquidated my affairs, purchased an
annuity of his Grace of -- -- -- -- -- -- of three
hundred pounds a year, and determined to take up my quarters in this Seat of elegance and plenty; where I enjoy myself, indulge my appetites, and keep company with those, who administer to my pleasures. My voice, I am ienfible, has been of great service to the reputation of my wit,; for if ’my jokes, which are retailed up and down in every coffeehouse, were to be divested of the concomitant ideas of a Theatrical drawl, and the rotundity of my figure, I am Ienfible, they would not strike the generality of people in the manner they do, nor acquire the character of wit and drollery that is commonly allowed me. My h on mots., for the most part, con fist of grost ideas strongly expressed, which any other person would be ashamed, or afraicl to utter. I am frank in my manners, which has procured .me enemies. If J do not like
F 2 a
*
( 100)
a man, I will tell him So, let die consc quence be what it will; as there is a constant Succession of company at this place,
I am never at a lost.
“I generally go once in a Summer to eat John Doree; but the last time I was there,
I thought I should have died; for I was three whole days without fish, my mare was lame, my food was lean bacon, ewe mutton, cow beef, and brown veal. My heart is susccptible of friendship,, and I can make whom I pleafemy friend.
The nobility in general respe<5t me; except that little walpish, witty earl, who, meeting me one morning at Seven o’clock,, as I was coming from the tavern, ashed me, from whence I came? 1 told him from the three tuns; no, Horatio, he answered, yyou come only from two tuns, for you have brought one away with you.”
When my friend had ended his recital,. I gave him many thanks for his candour and franknest, in disclosing his thoughts with the freedom he had done.
The day following Sparkle arrived from London, and diverted us very much, with a brother lord of his, having purchased punch upon the road of a puppet .shew man, and afterwards kicking him downstairs, because Punch could not speak. Sparkle
( I oi)
Sparkle now told me, that the Ichemis: he had to propose, which would divert u for a considerable time during, the Summer, was the acting a play; he no Sooner mentioned it, than the thought was applauded by the whole company, as a very bright one, and h®ratio recommended the tragedy of Julius caesar; as we wanted a Sufficient number of actors, I Sent an ex press over to Bath, to Stephens and Jacobs, with So pressing an invitation, that, notwithstanding the coolness I had So ridiculously been the occaston of, they buried their animosity in oblivion; and consented to be of the party. Sparkle procured me. the other members of the drama; Horatio, however, could not be prevailed upon to be,, of the number; alleging, that he would willingly adt Brutus, to oblige Mr, Grant, but would whistle it for no man living; • he promhed to be a prompter, and give out the parts; accordingly he allotted me: Brutus; Sparkle, Mark Anthony; Stephens, Cassius, which Suited extremely well, as Stephens was of a consumptive habit of body, and gave a lively idea of the Spare and hungry Cassius; Jacobs had .Cteiar; i Lyndamira, Portia; and Patty, Calphurnia.
F I ^, .Wc
9
%
( 102)
We were now employed in getting our parts, rehearsing, and directing the workmen to fix up Scenes and benches in the great hall. Sparkle undertook to get us dresses from a manager of one of the theatres, with whom he was intimately acquainted; but, in answer to a letter Sparkle wrote him for that purpose, he let him’ knov/ it Was nofin his power to accommodate us; but if we chose to make new ones for the occasion, when our play was over, he would take them atkalf price; we were all fired with indignation at this proposal; and Horatio, who had been his rival upon the stage, could not forbear expressing his resentment: “FH engage. Said he, if Mr. “Grant will but write to the manager of “the other house, though he is unknown to “him, he will obtain a promise of them “immediately. FH tell you this man’s “history in a few words; His father was ‘‘ a French officer in our service, who, “when he was upon half-pay, lived at
Litchfield; and this gentleman is So much “ashamed of the country, from which he “is So nearly Sprung, that, in order to “anglicise his name, he has tacked a letter “to the tail of it, which is not to be found “in the French alphabet; he went young “to his uncle, a merchant at Lishon, to
“whom
>
«
t
t
( 103)
f
*■* whom he was bound apprentice; but, ^ “instead of attending to bookkeeping, he used to divert the ladies of the fadtory, “with Speeches out of plays, that he had “got by heart; So that his uncle, finding “him incapable of minding his concerns, “Sent him back to England; his uncle Ibon “after died, and left him a thousand“ “with which, in partnership with “his brother, he went into the wine trade; “but thinkino; that it did not answer, he “came to the resolution of studying the “law; and flattered himself, that he should “at least one day fill the chancellor’s Seat; “he boarded with an attorney, whole pra “dtice he was to have the liberty of inspedt “ing. The intricacies of lord Coke had “as few charms for him as merchandise“ “London, or at Lishon; he therefore “resolved to give way to his natural bent, “and made his first appearance upon the “stage at goodman’s fields, in the chara“ “of Richard the third, in which he “Succeeded beyond his own wishes or ex“ “
According to horatio’s hint, a letter was forthwith dispatched to the manager of the other house; who immediately granted our request without fee or reward. — The day after our theatrical exhibition was ends
4 ed.
»
( 104)
CD the following paragraph, written by Horatio, was inserted in the Gloucester journal:
“On Monday the i8th, Friday the 22d, “and Monday the 25th past, was acted at “ingerford park, the Seat of Jeremiah Grant, esq; the tragedy of Julius C^sar, as written by shakespear. The hall at “Ingerford, which is a cube of thirty feet, “was, upon the occasion, converted into a “theatre, with Scenes in front, and at the fides; the Seats, which were all in front “of the stage, held completely one hundred “Ipedlators, and were filled each night “with persons of fashion, as well of the “neighbouring counties, as our own, ta “whom Mr. Grant Sent cards of invitation “among others were the duke and duchess
“of -- -- -- -, the marquis of -- -- -- -- -, the
“earl and countess of -- --, lord and lady
“-- -- --, lord and lady -- -- -, lord -- -- --,
“lord and lady -- -- -, lady -- -- -, Sir John
“-- -- --, and lady - - - lady Mary —,
“lady Betty —, lady —, the honourable
“Mr. Edward -- -- -- --, and the miss -- -, the
“honourable Mr. -- -- --, brother to lord —
“the honourable Mr. and Mrs. - - c“
“There was a fine band of music“ “which the principal parts were per“ “by the celebrated Mr. Burton,
Mr.
( 105)
Mr. Gordon, and Seignor Franchila, “from london. The play was opened “with a prologue, written upon the occa “fion, which was Ipoken, with great pro“ “by Mr. Grant; the characters of “the play were represented by gentlemen' “and ladies, whose rank in life made an' “easy elegance of deportment habitual tof “them.
“The calm, steady dignity of Brutus“ “nobly Sustained by Mr. Grant, and “excellently contrasted with the rash, ve^ “hement impetuosity of Cassius, by Capt.. “Stephens, especially im the Scene of their “quarrel, in the fourth adl. The part of “Mark Anthony was performed by the “earl of Sparkle, who looked, as well as “acted, the charadtcr; his manner was “remarkably natural and easy, and his gesture Such and Such only, as the Senti“ “he expressed upon the occasion“ “naturally produce. The part of Ctcfar was performed by Mr. Jacobs,. “and with great propriety, particularly im “the scene of the Ghost, whom his voice“ “manner made very shining. Cafka “was done by Mr. Bun, who entered into “the character with So much art, that it “had the strongest appearance of nature; “the very temper of the man, as Shake
F 5 Ipear
VS

i
(106)
“Spear has drawn it, was expressetlas well “in the tone and manner of utterance, as “in thev/ords themselves.
“Calphurnia was performed by Mrs. “Martha Clltrap, whole figure was equal “to whatever the fancy might conceive of “the wife of caesar; her voice and man“ “V ere Soft and plaintive, persedlly Suit“ “to'the tender expostulation, for which “the poet has principally introduced the “character; and which, short as it is, did “not less contribute to interest the audience, “for Caesar, than the innate dignity of
“his own character. The part of Portia, “the wife of Brutus, was performed' by Mrs. Lyndamira Ciiltrap, to whom we “dare not do justice, lest we should incur “the imputation of flattery, and offend that delicacy which is So difficult to please“ “commendation; let it Suffice to Say, “that she never appeared without giving “fresh pleasure to the audience, whole fixed “attention, while she was present, gave “the most indubitable token of thorough “approbation. The rest of the characters“ “of less moment, were Sustained “with equal propriety. So as to render the “whole representation uniform, as well as y agreeable and affecting"
"' “
f
i
(,. V
/
( lo;)
“At the end of the third adl, aster An“ “oration to the people over the “corps of caesar, a proceshon of Vestals “was introduced with a Solemn dirge; the “Vestals were personated by six ladies,
“who made a most beautiful pleasing ap“ “; one of whom Sung the dirge ' “with Such power of voice, expreshon, and “Skill in music, as perhaps cannot be equal“ “by any other.
“After the tragedy, the farce of The “devil to pay, was performed by Some of “the Same company; in which two Italian “Songs were introduced. Sung by the “young lady who Sung the dirge in the play; and, by those who are the best “judges, they were Said to exceed every “thing of the kind, that had ever been'
“heard in this kingdom. Upon the whole.
“it may justly be doubted, wlle®er^any “Such dramatic representation has Seen “leen in England, Since the performance “of plays was a royal amusement, practised by Sovereign princes with the nobl “lity of their courts.”
The high encomiums bestowed by Horatio on our performance. Savoured fa strongly of irony, that Several people took it for a burlesque, instead of aj panegyric. How it was"meant, r. will shot
1
( los)
pretend to determine; but, upon a Second reading, I was rather inclined to think,, my friend had exercised his talent for ridicule.
lyndamira’s dilbrder gaining upon her every day; and qualms of conscience, as she pretended, at her past and present course of life, becoming troublesome; she frequently expressed a desire to retire, for the remainder of her days, into a Convent; and one day pressed me so much, that my consent was at last wrung from me. The only thing now to be fettled vasa proper allowance; and as she Seemed determined to remain in a Convent for life, she desired it might be an annuity for the term of her own life. I therefore Settled three hundred pounds a year upon her, payable half yearly from my estate in Jamaica. Two days after the deed was executed, she showed me a letter from her confessor, father fitz clabber, a Romish priest in London, by which it appeared, that he had obtained leave of the abbess of a Nunnery in brus lels, to have her admitted, as Soon as she chose to repair to that place; which the father desired might be Speedily, as Several people had put in for the vacant cell, which he had obtained by particular favour; and ended his letter by an offer of
his
I
( 109)
his Services to attend her to Brussels. A recital of our parting would affect the most flinty heart; she wept, and hung about my neck, as I formerly had done round that of my mother, when we first Separated at black rock in Jamaica. I was So touched with lyndamira’s Sufferings, that, as a farther token of my regard, i added fifty pounds a year to her annuity.
At length the fatal time arrived, and Lyndamira and Patty Set out for London,, attended by one of my Servants.
My friend Sparkle had long, been entreating me to accompany him in a tour to Italy, he intended shortly to make; and now finding the chief obstacle removed, by lyndamira^s taking the veil, redoubled his efforts, in order to prevail upon me. He said he had, with some difficulty, got a passport from the French court to past through Phance, which is the shortest and most agreeable way of going into Italy, and would make the tour in as short a space of time as I should think proper; and added, the shorter it was, the more convenient it would be for him, as he was under an absolute necessity of returning by the general Election, which, it was imagined, would be in March or April at farthest. He said, he would recommend me a swiss
governor,
t
%
(■ no),
Stovernour, which would Save, ms the troii
O ' ^
ble of learning Italian. I was easily per suaded to comply with his lordship’s request,, particularly as I was now deserted by my faithful companion Lyndamira, and, as I imagined, it would be a Sarther mieans of introducing me into the heawmonde.
O ^ '
Horatio took his leave with the utmost, regret, as I had lately hired a French cook, that was generally allowed, by the noblemen and gentlemen of the neighbourhood, to exceed any that had exhibited before in England, either in lincoln’s inn fiekis, or opposite to the Admiralty coffeehouse in charing cross. My draught of. Burgundy was likewise incomparable, another loadstone by which our modern Fab staff was very powerrully attached. When he had left ingerford park, I ordered five dozen of this nedtarean drink to be packed up, and lent to him at Bath.
»>
; CHAP,
0
(in)
C H A P. IX
Lhe Grattd Lour.
X
Having agreed to accompany his
lordship during his tour through Italy, and to return with him before the next general Election, at which he was, in all probability, to have a very expensive contested election;; having promised to take into my pay the swiss governor, or travelling tutor, he had recommended to me; I Set out from my Seat in Gloucestershire for London, and went to his lordship’s house in grosvenor’s square; from whence that evening we dispatched letters to Henri., the taylor, at Paris, with our measures, by express, with a general order to make, with all Speed, ten of the richest Suits, for each of us, that his art was master of.
My governolir waited upon me an hour after 1 arrived, and told me, that he had travelled with, ten English noblemen, from whom he had the strongest testimonials, had made the complete tour of Europe five times, and gave me his terms in writing; which' were, two hundred a year whilst we were travelling, and an annuity of an hundred
( II)
dred pounds to be Settled upon him as Soon as we returned. I Signed the articles without delay, and the next morning we Set out for Dover, his lordship and myselt in one chaise, and the two governors in another.
sparkle’s governor was a Scotch physician, who had rendered many and Singular services in his profession to his pupil. We went at the rate of an hundred and fifty miles a day to Paris, where we stayed only two days; and, as Soon as our clothes were tried on, and packed up, we travelled on to Lyons, which place we reached in two days. Here, having a mind to reconnoitre my governor a little, I got into the chaise with him; his name was Durlach, he was a native of the Canton of Bern, and a minister of the holy Evangelist; he had Seen a great deal of the world, and was particularly Skilled in his office, as in tendant des plaijirs.
We halted for an hour upon Mount ce nis, where, after hearty draughts of mont melian wine, to expel the cold, the ground being covered with Snow, which it generally is, at the time of the year we were there, it being the end of November, we reelled into our chaises. The day following arrived at Turin, and were presented to the King of Sardinia, and the next even
\
()
took the route of Florence, where we delivered our letters of recommendation ta doctor Cocchi, who sold us Some antiques; we went on to Rome, still at the rate of tn hundred arid fifty English miles a day,, where we arrived after it was. dark; and,, ' as we proposed making our stay there only on our return from Naples,, went to Seest peter’s church with a candle and lan thorn.
This evening Sparkle wrt>: e to England by the post,, for a hogshead of beer,. and an oaken stick, to be Sent to Rome by the first ship, which he hoped would arrive bjr the time he returned from Naples.
The next morning we Set out, before it was light, for Naples, where it was oue fixed resolution to rest ourselves for a con fiderable time; the evening we arrived^ waited upon the. English envoy, next day were presented at court; and here, let me not bury in oblivion the Services of my faithful minister of the holy Evangelist; it was, by his friendly interposition, I had the honour of paying a duchess a thou Sand chequins, for being admitted chichishaio> to her daughter. Had it depended entirely upon myself, here 1 would have stopped our invention of the perpetual motion; but his lordship, whose mind was not quite
Soc
II )'
fb’senfible of the gentle pashon as miner was, hourly reminded me of the general • Election he was to be present at.
After we had been at Naples ten days,, we returned to Rome; where we had a seven days ledure of Russel upon virtuy and I bought an original madonna of guido’s for t welve hundred chequins.
The very evening our lecture was finish -- ed, we posted to Venice; shut ourselyes up a day and night with tv: o opera girls; from thence posted, as fast as post horses could go, to Milan; but stopped an hour at Fadoua, to hear a Solo by Tartini; we crossed Mount Bernard, went to Basil and Strashourg, went down the Rhine to the Hague, to helovet fiuice, and So home V without staying, more than ashngle night at any place after we left Venice; having northeast ver.exchanged a'syllable with any stranger, except Henri the taylor, the king of Sardinia, the king of Naples, the young du chess I was chichishaio to, and the concu -- bines at Venice.
As to discharging billsj and transadiing other necessary matters upon the road, the Helvetic parson, and Scotch doctor, were very well paid for doing them. My whole knowledge of Italian consisted of three words,, viz. andate., pin., prejio; and of
French
I
ft
#
C ri)
French I know but little more. We wer e absent from London four calendar months;
I
and having stayed but two days at Paris, three at Turin, one at Florence, ten at Naples, Seven at Rome, and one at Venice; we, consequently, lived three months' and some days upon the. road, and in our chaises
» — ......., ............... l— — ........
H A P. X
SOON after'we arrived in London, T went down to new market with Sparkle, who Sent two Italian greyhounds, which: he had bought at Venice, forwards in a post chaife and four; and these gentlemen,. like the rest of their countrymen, grew Ib extremely dainty, as Ibon as they trod upon English ground, that they could eat nothing but Vermicelli Soup and'macaroni. Here we staid three days, to the infinite diversion and entertainment of the gentlemen of the turf; for we daily exhibited Henrfs performances, being curled and powdered in the true Parisian taste.
The conversation, in all genteel company, now turned, upon the eledtions, which were

\
t
were alreacv’ o: -. '■ ' ’ t, ' r’ih rc
were made by man: '; ■ C ''lat
the Parliament shou G ue V V ]ls at
the time of new market me^lii t rn i at
'*
a season of the year when there was no
¥ ■
shooting or hunting in the country,.
One morning, as I was perusing a paper at the coffeehouse at new market, f observed an advertisement from a certain. Borough in the West of England, inviting, any gentleman of public Spirit, and a friend to liberty, to offer himself as a Candidate to represent it: As I had formed a, distant notion of getting into Parliament,, this article struck me, and I consulted Sparkle as soon as I met him; “Why,, (Said he. Prince) ‘‘ I think you are right, V I would have you try; every man of “fashion ought to get into Parliament; “besides, you have talents, and may make “it worth your while; as to the expense,, you must not mind it of sixpence, that’s “neither here nor. there; when a man Sets his mind upon a thing, it comes o course. Go up with me tomorrow“ “and I will recommend two of the finest eledlioneerins: fellows in eii rope to you : If you carry your ele<5tion, “/wi//qualify you.”
Imen,
( iry)
1 mentioned tke Scheme to Several other tioblemen, that Supped with me at the Ordinary at new market that evening; who all .assured me, that it was a very seasible one; and advised me, hv all means, to Set out with the earl of Sparkle next morning.
I went down to the field of action, armed with five thousand pounds in banknotes, and accompanied by the two electioneering gentlemen, recommended to me by Sparkle, whom he had retained for his own purpose; but his election being Settled by compromile, he had no farther occasion for them. One was master of a coffeehouse, remarkable for Singing drinking fongs in the true Bacchanalian style; the other was a celebrated mimic, who has long diverted the town. After I had declared my purpose of coming down, to the returning officer of the Corporation, and the principal Burgesses, I caused the largest tun, that could be got, to be filled with strong beer, and placed in the most conspi cuous part of the marketplace, and invited all degrees of men to partake of it; when I thought the concourse of people considerable enough, I mounted the vase a stride, like Bacchus on a tun, and taking off my wig, which discovered pieces of black sticking plaster, that were put on for
the
( ii)
'.the occasion, I harangued the mob for an hour, upon liberty, property, and independency. I told them, I had received the wounds, they Saw upon my head, in fighting in my country’sicause, and for the privileges of‘that Borough in particular. At the end of my Speech, they .gave me three .cheers, and Swore,; to a man, they would stand by me till they had lost the last drop of their blood.
My emissaries brought over a great many wavering votes; and my antagonist began to fear the issue of the eledtibn. He was an eminent clothier in the city, and depended So much iupon his interest, amongst the manufacturers in the Borough, that he had neglected all the other voters, who, though inserior in number, yet made up a very considerable part of the body of burgesses.
As my harangue upon the tun had worked So Surprising an effect, the Clothier made an attempt of the Same Sort; but his talents, for public declamation, falling 'short of mine, the huzza’s he received, were by no means adequate to his wishes. .His person was very diminutive, shis dress singular, his voice low and drawling; So ■that it was no difficult matter for my friend vthe Mimic, .1 had brought dowri, to take
him
0
f
( J'lp)
shim off; which he did So inimitably in every particular, that the citizen heartily re p>ented his public harangue; the manusac turers began to come over to me; and I was now determined to Spare no expense;; I had twenty houses open to both parties, equally, and my agents gave fifty pounds a vote.
At length the day of election being arrived; when the votes came to be Summed up, notwithstanding my expense and contrivances, my antagonist was declared duly eleded, by a majority of eleven votes.
No one can judge of the dejeflion of a disappointed candidate, but the man, who has been actually in that Situation; my shank notes were all dispersed; and I was obliged to borrow money of the coffee house man, and mimic, to pay my way up to London. I had nothing to console me, shut the having, without interest or.connection, by mere dint of money and contrivance, gone within a few votes of carrying a Borough, against a rich citizen, that had long represented it, backed with the power ianatscippottiof the Court.
•sparkle, and the rest of my acquaintance, advised me by all .means to petition; and offered to use their interest to get me admitted a member of Arthurs club;
wliicte
( 120)
’which, they assured me, would be a certain method of procuring many voices in deciding my petition; and told me of lord lmnopq^s having Succeeded totally by that means.
When I was at breakfast one morning, a Servant came up, and told me there was .a person below, who was extremely eager to See me; I desired he might be showed sup, when there entered the stable keeper in Piccadilly, at whose stables I bought thefor 'ty horses fourteen ''months before, to stock my plantation, when I had laid the wise scheme, of returning to Jamaica. He told me, that, having never heard of me for more than a year, he had Sold the horses, to reimbiirse the charges he had been at, in keeping them; but that they did not fetch more than twelve pounds a piece, for which reason 1 was considerably in his debt. I was a good deal chagrined at this neglect and forgetfulness of my own; but the debt was certainly a just one, and I was obliged to allow it; which, however, it was not in my power to discharge immediately; I therefore gave him a bond for the money, payable in six weeks; the man made many remonstrances about the length
of the time, his having long been out of
his
*
( }
his money, his poverty, and large family; to all which I readily agreed; but told him, I could not not possibly raise money Iboner.
I was now admitted to play at Whist at a certain great man’s house in Argyle buildings, in the evening, for sixpence a ‘ game; and one of the members of that Society introduced me to a certain diredtor of eledlions, who bad countenanced my antagonist. My principal voter, who en joyed a place under the government, was in danger of being turned out, because he had zealoussy assisted me; well knowing the timidity of this personage in matters of this Sort, I resolved to try, whether a, few words, in favour of my friend, would be of any Service in continuing him in his employment. When he Saw the gentleman appear, with a stranger following him, he got up from his chair, and came to meet us. Scratching his cheek as he walked forwards; as Soon as the gentleman told him my name, he catched me by the hand, and Said: “My dear Mr. Grant, I hope your “family is well; now this is very kind, I “thank you athousand, thousand times for “this kind favour.”
I placed mystlf in the circle next to a corpulent man in black; the peribnage in
G question
0
I
( 122)
question. Spoke to every one in his turn, and, coming up to my neighbour in black, shook him very cordially by the hand:
“My dear Sir, Said he, I have not Sorgot “you; what you desire, you may depend “upon being done.” What I desire, answered my neighbour; I never yet ashed a favour of you, nor ever will. Oh, my dear Sir, Said he, I mistake, aiis Sidled off. I staid there till the parsons were gone, and perceiving that he had an inclination to give me the Slip, placed myself directly before the door; and told him, that I had a few words to Say in behalf cf a friend of mine. This is an ugly bufiness, Mr. Grant, Said be, I am now in a great hurry; have you any commands at St. james’s} Sir, I an' ' if my friend loses his place, it will be fb great a violation of the freedom of election, that I will make the town ring of it. This is an ugly bufiness, Mr. Grant, laid he, I must be gone; have you any commands at St. james’s? My visit was produdlive of the effect desired; for my man was never disturbed in his employment.
The English phrase, for a man’s Spending his estate is, e. g. Mr. Grant has run out his fortune; and the realbn of it is, fewuse the English are a people that delight
I ^
%
/
/ '
%
( 123)
light in dissipation, and running from place to place. The French term for the lame thing is, e. g. Monsieur Grant a mange tout fon bien., (has eat his fortune;) now, as the French are remarkable for eating to excess, they naturally apply their favourite term to the at of a man’s ruining himself; taking it for granted, that the greatest part of his Substance must have been Spent in ragouts and fricassees. The Germans,
O • '
when they Speak of a man that has made away with all that he had. Say, Er hat aljein gtit verfuffen; that is, he has drank all his money, drinking being the favourite occupation of a German; he, as well as the Frenchman, imagines a man must certainly have appropriated the greatest part of his expense, to gratify the passion most prevalent in the generality of people in the ■country where lie lives; now I should be glad, if any virtuoso in language would furnish me with a term, to express a west indian’s Spending his estate; should it not be, he dressed away his fortune, or he forgot it?
I might very properly be Said, to have dressed, forgot, and run out my estate. I had granted annuities to the amount of leven hundred and fifty pounds, and my merchant was now in advance for me up
G 2 wards
✓
( 124)
wards of twenty thousand pounds, which was very near the whole value of my plantation; for although I first had, at my father’s death, a real income of three thousand pounds a year; yet, as West-india estates Seldom Sell for more than eight or nine year’s purchase, I had almost gone to the extremity of mine. Commission now absolutely refused to advance me any farther Sums of money, and I was under the necessity of changing my correspondent, that I might raise a Small Sum for present Subsistence.
My new correlpondent took the debt I owed commission upon himself, and advanced what I wanted for present use; but what with interest and premium, I paid at the rate of eight percent, for the, money; the unfortunate, or rather those in distress, are Subject to the greatest impositions. My new correspondent insisted upon my ensuring my life; otherwise he threatened to send a power of attorney to Jamaica, to have my estate Sold for the payment of his debt.
Want, which hitherto had been unknown to me, now began to pinch me; my chief dependance for the fuccess of my petition, was being admitted into the young club at arthur’s; I was then in the hat, and Sparkle
4#
#
h
f
t
( x25)
kle assured me would Soon be put up. I endeavoured still to keep up the appearance of a man of fortune, by selling off my trinkets, as I had occasion, for ready cash; my original Madonna by Guido, was fit up at an audlion, and I had the mortification to hear it deemed, by Some of the principal connoisseurs, a wretched copy; none of them would bid for it; at which I was ib extremely piqued, that I ordered it to be taken down.
My mornings used generally to be taken up, in company with many worthy members of the legissative body, in lounging and eating fruit at betty’s in St. james’s street. The important evening that was to determine my fate at arthur’s, at length arrived; I went to the room below, that I might know the issue of my eledion as Soon as it should happen; when I thought the balloting was over, I called for the waiter, and ashed, with a faltering voice, what had been the fate of Mr. Grant; to which he replied, he is rejected. Heavens, what were my feelings at this news! but my grief was Soon changed to the highest pitch of indignation and resentment, when the waiter farther told me, that I had not a single affirmative; So that my friend Sparkle must have given me a negative, as
G 3 well
• *
()
well as the rest of the club, that had a design to exclude me. I went the next morning to his house besore he was up; and told him, that I insisted upon his going with me that instant to the grove in Hyde'park; at which he was So thunderstruck, that he fainted away in his bed; and, when he recovered from his Swoon, had the meanness to kiss my hand, which he bathed with tears. I felt So great a contempt for this pusillanimity, that I Suddenly left him, and gratified my resentment, by telling everybody I met, what had passed that morning between us.
I still continued very busy in forwarding my petition; and my antagonist, finding he should have Some difficulty,, offered me Seven hundred pounds to withdraw my petition; which, after a short time that I took to confider of it, I accepted of; to which I was the more easily induced, as Several of my creditors began to plague me a good deal.
My finances now growing daily lower, I parted with my Guido for fifty pounds, and sold my furniture, horses, and equipages, and, with some of the money they produced, stopped the mouths of those creditors, who were loudest and most importunate, reserving twenty guineas for my
own
#
V
i
( 127)
own use; upon which I now determined to go upon the expedition, which was then preparing against belle isse.
I accordingly repaired to Portsmouth, embarked in one of the transports, the captain of which had been mate with Rudder, and consequently knew me. I had obtained the general’s permishon to land in the first boat that a as ordered on shore; and, having a great desire to signalise myself, at least twenty yards before the division reached the Beech, I jumped out of the boat, and marched to Shore. The issue of the first attack upon that issand is very well known; as we were retreating in confusion to our boats, I received a mulket ball in my right temple which went out of my head at the opposite one. I was insensible of the wound by the stupifadtion it occasioned; from which, when I recovered, I found myself in the arms of a Sailor lifting me up the ship’s fide; I was, by this wound, rendered incapable of service during the Siege of the fortress, and returned to England in one of the transports, that came for fresh provisions for
* If any person doubts the possibility of Surviving such an accident, let him go to the Grecian, or so rell’s coffee house, and inquire at the bar for Mr, O Conor, and he will attest it.
G 4 the
\
( IS)
the army. In about six weeks I was upon my legs again, and repaired to London, to Solicit the Secretary of war for a commifi fion in the army;; delivered in a memorial, and attended his levee four months; but beino; tired of amufino; me So Ions:,
o o
he at last told me, that I had opposed the court in an election, and he thought it very unreasonable that I should expeds any favours from that quarter.
%
CHAP. XI
¥ One day heard, by accident, that the wine merchant in St. catharine’s, who had Served me by lyndamira’s recommendation, had given instrudlions to his attorney to arrest she. The only remaining Servant, that I now had with me, told me he had likewise been informed there was ano her writ out against me, and that I was hourly in danger of being arrested. I thought now there vas no time to be lost; I therefore that evening, as Soon as it was dark, took the only five pieces I had remaining, a shirt, and pair of stockings,
and.
\
( 129)
and went to an alehouse near temple bar 5. where, aster I had taken Some refreshment, inquired for a ready furnished lodging, and was conduced to a woman that let lodgings, who was retailing greens on a stall hard by; she told me she had lodgings of all prices, from half a crown as low as sixpence a week; I desired her to show me one of a middling price, which, she Said she could do exactly, for that a gentleman, that had enlisted in the guards, had gone out of a very pretty apartment but last week, which I might have, if I chose it, for eighteen pence a week.
I desired her to conduct me to it immediately, as I had been up very early that morning, I was much inclined to steep; according to my desire she condudfced me to fetter lane, and, after turning two or three times in an alley, in which it was im poshble for two people to walk a breast, we climbed up four pair of stairs, and entered a room about seven feet in length by four in breadth, the bed turned up; but where it was let down, there was no possibility of walking on the floor, as it engrossed the whole area of the room, except a very Small Space. There was a stove fixed to the freehold, and the tongs, shovel, and poker were chained to the chimney place.
G 5 The
#
( 130)
The good woman told me, she hoped I would not take it amiss, but that it was the custom to receive the payment for the whole week at the beginning of it; I immediately paid her, and, being furnished whth candle, tinderbox, and other matters necessary to persons who inhabit those lofty apartments, I took poffeshon of my bedchamber, where I fiept at least free from the apprehension of being immediately hurried to goal.
1 kept myself a close prisoner during the day, and when it was dark, used to Sneak out to get Some provision for the ensuing day; in this manner I lived for two • months, in which time my cash was half gone. Sunday, however, was a day of liberty, and I constantly took that opportunity of breathing the fresh air in the country.

I had, for Some time, perceived a person frequent a room upon the Siine staircase where I was, who had greatly the appearance of being placed in the Same unhappy circumstances that I vas; one evening
v/e accidentally met at the bottom of the stairs, and, as it were by instindt, having a Sympathetic knowledge of each other’s Sufferings, after the first Salutations were over, as we walked upstairs, entered into
V.. „ ^ ^ •

*
s
()
familiar conversation; at the end of which my neighbour very obligingly expressed a desire of our living upon a Sociable footing, and invited me next morning to breakfast; which was the betenning of a friend ly intercourse that lasted four months.
This gentleman was a native of Scotland, named Murdo; he was a person post Sessed of a natural strength of parts, very properly denominated mother wit; he was bred at the university of Edingburgh, and had been usher at a board in g school near London; but his extravagance had obliged him to hide himself in these lofty regions. He informed me, that he was employed by a certain bookseller, who does not live five miles from temple bar, by which he earned just enough to fubfist upon; he Said his chief bufiness was writing articles in the Review, vrhich Vv'as no despicable branch of authorship, as now and then he got a few pieces from a bookseller to puff off his publications; that he was under a neceshty of writing a panegyric upon all the books published by the bookseller before mentioned, as he was the only perlbn, (except the printer’s devilj that knew where he was le creted; and he had often threatened, in cafe he was Sparing of his praises, that he (the bookseller) would immediately give information
«
*
( ^32)
mation to his creditors of the place of his abode.
My whole stock being expended, I entreated Murdo to intercede with his bookseller for employment for me in the literary way; I was desired to give a Specimen of my style and manner of writing, which did not meet with that approbation I had the vanity to think they deserved; but as there was, at that time, a Scarcity of pens, for which the London booksellers had just, at that period, a particular call, I was engaged to critidle the two first volumes that appeared of one of the most valuable histories in the English, or any other language; the author, it Seems, had Sold the original to a bookseller in Edinburgh, who had printed Some thousand copies of it in that city, which he had Sent up to London; the London booksellers thought this an invasion on their ideal right of Selling the first publication of all books written in his majesty’s dominions; and in order to throw a damp upon the Sale of the work, Set all their Garreteers and Reviewers.
to work, to prejudice the public against «
It. *
I now commenced author, and considered mystlf as a barister retained in a bad
cause, who looks upon himself as by no
means
#*
•.
( IJ?)
means responfible for the oppreshon of right, as he is acting merely in his profes fion. The work was censured with the most unjustifiable acrimony; it was accused of inculcating arbitrary and atheistical principles, and deemed a Scandal and reproach to a nation. So remarkable for its love of liberty and humanity.
The united efforts of the Scribbling tribe Succeeded So well in this matter, that the Edinburgh bookseller found himself obliged to let in murdo’s benefadlor for a. part; and Soon after that was effected, we bestowed upon it the most hyperbolical panegyrics; my ethereal companion was generally appointed to write the Monthly catalogue in one of the Reviews, part of which I commonly executed; but our ap plause or censure, was distributed according to the directions of the bookseller, which we endeavoured Scrupuloufiy to follow.
Murdo often bewailed in Secret these shackles, that were placed on the human understanding: but neceshty had no law;
we, had only this cruel alternative remaining, either to prostitute our pens, or die of hunger.
O
Murdo used on Sundays to dine in com pany with the Society of reviewers, many of whom, he affared me, were men of
learn
<•
( 134)
learning and merit, but, like ourselves,
. had their genius’s cramped by the Sordid influence of their mercenary booksellers. I was employed as digester, or colledlor, for the magazine, as well as reviewer; I wrote a collebfion of riddles and conundrums, which Murdo told me Some of the members of the club envied me the honour of; one gentleman in particular, who, ^ few years ago, wrote jenny’s Vvshim, or the places of abode of the prirjcipal people in London, was mightily pleased with them : He as fared me, my reputation was So great, that I flrould be a very acceptable guest to the Society, and Said, the very next Sunday he would introduce me.
As I was returning from the Park on the Sabbath, I perceived a man folkiwing me through the alleys; it was with difficulty I could give him the slip, and as I concluded it was a bailiff who wanted to find out the place of my abode, I never stirred out till it it was ten at night, and would open my door to no per Son that I had nt; t first reconnoitred through a little hole in my door, vrhich I bored for that purpose.
My neighbour, Murdo, according to his promise, conduced me, the Sunday following, to the ordinary he had mentioned;
and in our way thither told me, that I must
pay
m
( *35)
pay great attention to a gentleman who would Sit in the armed chair, with his back to the fire; for, continued he, he is a man of six thousand pounds a year, and the society think themselves greatly honoured by his company; but, for my own part, I think any man, let his fortune be ever Ib great, does a gentleman born very little honour by his acquaintance; and, for my own part, I was a better gentleman five hundred years ago than I am now; but as to the gentleman I was speaking of, his father kept a School in a Small village in aberdeen shire, and this man, who is novr So great,,
I do not suppose ever wore shoes and stockings till he was twelve years old. When he first came up to London in Search of adventures, I have been very certainly informed, he kept a day school in a garret in the Hay market. Before he embarked for Jamaica, he alked the advice of his friends, whether he should pradile the law or physic in that place *, who recommended the latter; as a total ignorance was more easily detedl ed in the former: he accordingly, upon his arrival, gave it out, that he intended to pradise physic;; gentleman of considerable property Soon after happening to be. taken dangeroufiy ill, when all the rest of the faculty had given him over, his family,
as
( }
as a last effort, called in this mew doctor, lately arrived from Bingland; when he came to the patient, he put on the appearance of prosolind knowledge, and declared him in eminent danger; and (Said he to the lady of the house) he will certainly die, if you do not take Tent: Anglice Care: he repeated this Several times, and the good lady really imagining he had prescribed Tent wine, gave the patient a pint that evening, which flung him into a profule perlpiration, and Saved his lise. His reputation was established by this accident, and he got a considerable deal of money.
At length, by wriggling and tv/isting, he procured a good employment in the island, where he laid a more Solid foundation of his wealth by marriage, upon which he raised the great Superstrudlure we See him possessed of; to which he had not a a little added by a Second marriage to a widow past 8o, and has disappointed her great grandchildren of a considerable estate they expected. As he is a dabler in astronomy, what brings him to our meeting is the company of Mr. Tangent, the mathematician, who constantly attends : Mr. Tangent, you must know. Sir, is a man of an amiable character, benevolent and friendly;
but
/
C 137)
but his intense application to geometry, has rendered him unfit for company; he win fit for a whole evening without opening his lips, with his eyes fixed either upon the ceiling or the fire. I once crossed over from glass gow to Carickfergus with him in the Same ^ vessel, and there arole So violent a storm, that the master declared we were in the greatest danger; Tangent was at that time in the cabin, with his parabolas and hyperbolas before him, and when the whole crew, trembling like alpin leaves, were assembled on their knees upon deck, he continued to work his proposition with the Same com posure as if we had been riding at anchor. Next to him you will lee a Perlbn who has acquired great reputation in the literary world, but I think very undeservedly; his history is So well known, that I shall not enlarge upon it; his .name is pomposo. There are many more minor wits, of little note, who serve to fill the table, and laugh at the hon mots of the great ones: We Sat down to a Sparing board, and the conversation was at first general; each displaying his depth in politics: The Gentleman whose history Murdo did not chuse to enlarge upon, named pomposo, Seemed to be a tory
in his principles, and I perceived a Sort of
jealousy
y(
()
between him and my friend, by the drynels and acrimony of their replies j at last murdo’s pride was piqued, and he talked much of the Advantages a good origin was of; and that, though riches at tradled power and relpedt in this part of the kingdom, yet in his country a man’s family was very much considered: : was going on in this strain, when the gentleman in the armed chair cried, tollater Mur do., tollater Murdo; which, to my great shrprile, and to poor murdo’s entire dif confiture, railed a Sudden fit of laughter, inlbmuch that Murdo could not withstand it; as loon as he could with decency retire, he took his leave.
When Murdo was gone, I took an opportunity of waking Tangent out of a re virie, by desiring him to explain to me the wit of what the gentleman in the great chair had Said; why. Sir, Said he, Murdo is a very honest fellow, and I love him; but he has the infatuation to boast of the nobility of his parentage before us, who, he knows, are well acquainted with his origin : Sir, you must know (he continued) murdo’s father was a caudey, or porter, in the city of Edinburgh, and being protected by the regent of the high School, his
Son
9
/
( 139)
tonne was admitted a janitor; now, yoa must know, a janitor is a poor boy, that has his Schoolingand undergoes the drudgery‘ of Sweeping the Schools, and ringing the bell, and when a delinquent is lentenced to undergo fiagellation, he hoists him upon his back; now the custom is, when a boy is to be whipped, for the regent to Say, tollater, for example, if Murdo was the person, the master would cry out, tollater.^ Murdo : There is one part of your account of Murdo that I cannot agree in, interrupted Pompofo; Sir, you Said he was a very honest man; now. Sir, I do lay it down as a certain position, that a man who has any ways contributed, directly or indi redsly, to propagate atheism and infidelity, must be a man of no principle; Murda was the publisher of the posthumous works ' of an infidel; now, Mr. Tangent, the thing strikes me in this light, the atheist I allude to, loaded the cannon with Swan shot, and levelled it at humankind, and Murdo was the little, dirty, pitiful Scoundrel that let it : off for half a crown: Much more conversation passed, and I staid till all the company was gone, except tangent, who knowing 'that I was a neighbour of murdo’s, desired that I would accompany him the Sunday
fd(
( 40)
sollov/ing to take a family dinner with him’, and added, that he dined precisely at two.
The Sunday after, Murdo led me to tangent’s apartment, which was up two pair of stairs backwards, in a little alley going from lincoln’s Inn fields to Holborn near a certain great house, where, in the decline of my grandeur, I had once got admittance; we inquired at the door whether Mr. Tangent was at home, and were answered by the maid that he had come home at one o’clock that morning, but had not yet breakfasted; at which we both expressed our astonishment; why. Sir, Said she, he has never been to bed, I went into his room this morning at nine o’clock to light his fire, but he would not let me; the clock struck one as we were mounting to the Sublime regions of geometry; the door of his bedchamber was a jar, and by pushing it, we got admittance unperceived by the mathematician; the fun was shining extremely bright diredliy opposite to him., through four circular holes in the window shutters, which made broad daylight in the room; two burning candles stood by him, which were reduced to the length of an inch each, he had a state before him, filled from top to bottom with a
ah --, c. without number; we walked
round
/
/
0
( HI)
round him without disturbing him, and I
believe if all the drums of the three regiments of guards had been beating in his room, he would not have perceived them; at last Murdo took him by the fieeve; he rubbed his eyes, and, staring him in the face, got up, and ashed him, what could bring him there So early in the morning? We told him, that we had come to dine with him agreeable to our promises, and shat it only wanted an hour to the time appointed; being persuaded by the height of the Sun, of the truth of our assertion, he rung the bell, sticks were ordered up to light the fire, the bellows were thrown down in reaching for the coal tub, the shovel was knocked against the fender, which, upon the whole, as to agreeableness of sound, cleanliness and regularity of appearance, formed one of the most pleasing Scenes it is possible to conceive.
Our philosopher had forgot to order any dinner the day before, and had it not been been for a few steaks his landlady spared him from a rump of beef she had in Salt, and Some bread and cheese, we might have dined upon Signs and tangents.
Matters being put to rights, our dinner Served up, and had drank a glass of execrable port wine, which was brought from
the
( 142)
the alehoule over the way in a half pint decanter, with a Single glass, which Served us all three; the philosopher, in the heat of his argument with Murdo, upon the origin of evil, having occasion to make an urinal evacuation, went to the bedside, and, without once stopping his harangue, with all the solemnity imaginable, after having satisfied this natural call, came back ' to his seat, with the earthen vase in his hand, which he placed upon the table, with its Smoking contents.
t
I
V
CHAP. XII
My creditors now found out the place
of my abode, by following me home one evening after a sunday’s excursion;; therefore kept myself extremely Secluded, and would admit no person into my apartment, whom I had not first Surveyed through the hole in my door mentioned in the foregoing chapter. Various were the stratagems fallen upon to arrest me, but none of them hitherto Succeeded; I was very near being ensnared by one : A man one morning knocked at iny door;
after
/
■1^
/
C 143)
after I had taken a view of him, and not liking his countenance, desired to know his business; he answered there was a clergyman below, who was just arrived from Jamaica, and that my brother, having heard of my distress, had Sent me a present by him. I desired the clergyman would show himself in the alley below, which he immediately did, and there appeared a very decent figure in canonicals, 'who confirmed what the messenger had told me; and farther added, he had fbme thing of consequence to communicate to me, which required privacy. As I knew humphrey’s humane dilpofition, I thought this matter not unlikely, and was upon the point of opening the door to the clergyman; but thinking it more prudent to have a farther proof of his not being an impostor, I desired him to return into the alley below, and when he was there, flung down a sheet of paper, with this verse written upon it:
/
Limeo Panaos; C dona ferentes.
which 1 desired him to render into English; but, instead of giving me a translation, he took his leave without farther ceremony.
I cons

( h4)
I continued thus confined for the Space of eight months, admitting no creature into my apartment, except the printer’s devil, that used to bring the proofs of the Review, and Magazine, in which I was still employed. One morning, however, when a gentleman of this diabolical Species, gave the usual tap at the door, I peeped, as was my custom, - but perceived a difference in the features of this boy, from those of the boy that usually attended me; but as his hands were filled with sheets of printed paper, I concluded, without ashing, that the printer had accidentally changed his messenger; to my fatal experience, however, I found myself mistaken; for I had no Sooner put my hand out to rake the papers, but he laid hold of it, and claimed me as his prisoner, at the Suit of my wine merchant; I shut the door upon him, imagining as he had not taken absolute corporal possession of me, that still I was at large; but I was Soon convinced I lay under a mistake likewise in this particular; for my door was almost instantaneoussy broke to pieces, and I was hurried away to the king’s bench prison in the Borough.
Here I continued for three weeks, during which time my health Suffered daily, for want of wholesome and Sufficient food.
I at
o V
1
( 145)
I at last lent to my correlpondent, who, upon my promising to execute to him a conveyance of my estate, agreed to pay the debt for which I was stung into goal, and give me ten pieces besides. I jumped at this proposal, which was pundlually performed, as Soon as the deeds were finished.
Being now enlarged, with ten guineas in my pocket, I thought myself no inconsiderable person; but two days after I got my liberty, I was again laid fast; I lived in prison till I had Spent my money, and pawn ed all my clothes, except a very shabby Suit, which hardly concealed my nakednest. I at last took advantage of the compulsive clause in the Ad; of insolvency, and was, what is vulgarly called, white washed.
I was now abandoned by every creature of my acquaintance, even my bookseller deserted me, and Murdo would no longer open his friendly door to my neceshtous rap. My time was chiesty spent in night houfes near St. giles’s, where I used to endeavour to drown my cares in purl and gin; ' but, alas! my anxiety only returned the day following with tenfold bitterness.
I was at last advised to take orders, and return to the West-indies; as I should, at least by that means, get the twenty guineas bounty, bestowed upon Protestant clergy
H men
I
( 146),
men going to propagate the Gospel in so reign parts; but when I presented myself before the bishop’s chaplain, he received me with great coolness; yet, however, promised to recommend me to his Lordship, provided I could get testimonials, of my life and manners, from any two merchants in London. It was to no purpose that I made application to several. So that I at last abandoned the thought of taking the gown.
After I had drawn a trifle from every creole
¥
in London, who gave me money to be freed from my importunity, and was forbid their doors under pain of corporal punishment, I was at last reduced So low, that I was obliged to beg halfpence of people as they went along in the street; in Some of these mendicant peregrinations, I got acquainted with a countryman, who had been a captain in the army, and was obliged to shift in the same manner that I was.
About this time a considerable premium was offered at guild hall by the city of London, for able-bodied men, that would enlist in his majesty’s Service; the reward, I confess, allured me to go and offer myself; but I resembled So much Scrub in the Stratagem, that I was rejected upon account of my exceshve meagreness. The
I mise
i
F
t /
I »
I
I
( 147)
miseries I Suffered were So great, that, was 1 to represent them to the reader, they would, form but disagreeable images, and. would rather fill him with horror, than a mazement.
One day, as I was posted in the passage that leads from the Mall in St. james’s park to spring garden, entreating the benefactions of the charitably disposed, one of my bagnio attendants, whom I had dismis sed when I retired to my lofty apartment ' near fetter lane, happened to pals by; the fellow, with difficulty, recolledled me : Fie told me, “Since he left my Service, he had “lived with Lyndamira, who was now in very affluent keeping, by the heir appa “rent of a peer of the realm, who had “parted with his wife upon her account, “and was running into certain ruin and “destrudtion, to gratify her extravagance. He added, “that she had a large house in “harley street, Cavendish square, where “she had lived since she left Flanders; but, to his certain knowledge, had never been in a Convent, or ever intended it.” I was not at all Sorry to hear, that Lyndamira was now in London, as I took it for granted, if she did but know of my circumstances, in common gratitude, she would assist me to the utmost of her power. The
H 2 rey

t
/
( 148)
restedtion upon this lucky accident afforded no Small pleasure, and I resolved, the next morning, to wait upon her, to inform her, that she had now an opportunity of showing that affedcion and regard she always So strongly professed for me.
I got up very early the day following, had my beard shaved, and rigged myself out in the completest manner my present narrow affairs would permit, and went to lyndamira’s door; which was opened by a Servant in rich livery; who, upon my telling him, that I had an affair of consequence to impart to his lady, desired me to wait in the Hall, and went upstairs; during the time that L was left in the Hall, which was near two hours, the maids were continually running up and downstairs, and whispered So loud, that I could overhear all their conversation; by which I gathered, the master vas in the country, and that another had that night been the happy man.
I was at length desired to walk upstairs; when I entered the room, I could perceive that she immediately recolledled me; but, without moving from her chair, or alking me to sit down, she desired to know what very particular bufiness 1 had to tell her of?
I painted my distressed condition in as live -

w
f
( 149)
ly colours as I was master of, which I thought would have melted the heart, even
o
of a Cherokee, and ended my story, by putting her in mind of the pecuniary obligations she even now was daily laying under to me, and concluded, by desiring her friendly assistance.
She told me, she was not answerable for the distresses I had brought upon myself by my own folly and extravagance; that it was not in her power to assist me, and heartily wished me a good morning.
I was So shocked at this excess of ingratitude, that I could not help upbraiding her in the Severest terms: “Go, thou most “ungrateful, thou vilest of mortals (Said I) “it is a reproach to the world, that a mon“ “like you, has been hitherto Suffered to “disgrace the name of human nature.’*, Upon which she started up in a fury, and rung the bell with the greatest violence. I still continued to give vent to my indignation, and two Servants came up before I had finished. She told them to kick me downstairs immediately; that I had affronted her in the grossest manner. The order was no Sooner given, than it was executed' by these minions of lust and prosti ‘ gacy; in short, I was So terribly bruised, that I felt the blows a month after, which
H 3 esse(
()
effedlually prevented me from ever paying any more visits to this votary of Penus ve nalis.
Although necessity constrained me to stoop to things much below my inclinations, yet I had still a fparkof west indian pride remaining in my composition. It ^ was with the utmost remorse I ressedted upon the Servile, infamous life I was leading, and, in my heart, would have preferred death itself to the state I was reduced to. My fall was great, from the most affluent circumstances, from the company of kings and peers of the realm, I descended to absolute beggary, and the Ibciety of hackney coachmen and link boys. In Ibme of my melancholy hours I Sometimes deliberated with myself, whether a man, fallen as I was, had not a just power of divesting himself of life?
I could not help accusing the laws of too, great rigour and Severity towards those who put a period to their lives by their own hands. A felo de fe forfeits all his goods and chattels, real and personal, and his body being buried where two high ways meet, has a stake drove through the middle of it, as a mark of the greatest infamy. Why am I to be deterred from putting an end ' to my pains, and to be deprived of a remedy
(150
medy I am master of, when I am groaning under a load of misery, indigence, and contempt? Put the cafe of a man that is eighty years of age, or upwards, affiidted with the stone, racked by the gout, obliged to beg his bread from door to door, without the possibility, or a most distant hope, of being able to benefit himself, or any member of Society; can it be conceived he has not a full right to make use of a remedy he is invested with by providence? Am I to be forced and compelled to bear my part in a Society I desire no longer to be a member of; on the contrary, that I wish ardently to quit? And am I under a neceff lity of performing a contract, entered into and stipulated without my privity or consent?? is founded upon mutual or reciprocal advantages; but when it be.. irksome and troublesome to me, I know no reason why I may not renounce it? If life has been given me as a favour. Surely I may give back that favour when it is no longer Such; but, on the contrary, is a punishment? When the cause ceases, the effect ought likewise to cease; am I to remain a member of the commonwealth when I reap no advantage from any civil institution? Can my countrymen be lb unreasonable as to demand So unequal a divi
H 4 fion
♦
C 152)
fion of their advantages, and my misery?? is it pojfible that the Almighty should differ So widely, from all human benefactors, as to condemn me to preserve a bounty, that is become a burden to me? But then. Say the wise philosophers of the age : You disturb the order of providence and nature; God hath joined your Soul to your body, and, by Separating them, you oppose his designs. Do I disturb the order of providence by altering the modifications of matter? No, I only use the right that has been given me, and, in that fenie, 1 may disturb all nature at my will and pleasure, without opposing the views or intention of providence. When my soul shall be Separated from my body, will there exist lest' order or perfecstion in the creation? Will it be the least loss to human nature, or will the works of the Creator lose any part of their immensity, when my body is changed into a mushroom, an ear of barley, or an asparagus Will it not be a work equally worthy of the hands of nature ^ And my Soul, being freed from its human trappings, can lose no part whatever of its excellence. It is human pride alone that makes us deaf to the force and strength of these arguments. We are strangers to our ovrn inconsiderableness,
and imagine the annihilation
o
t
( 153)
tlon of a being, ib perfect as ourselves,
would derogate from all nature. But we never ressedt, that a man more or less in the world, nay, all humankind together, ten thousand myriads of beings like ourselves, are but a Subtle atoin, which God perceives / but from the immensity of his knowledge.
Men are however apt to despair too Soon, and give up all for lost, when there is a probability of things taking a better or more favourable turn. Men that are vapoured and low fpirited, generally looked upon the objects of this life through a deceitful medium, and consider that as unalterably fixed, which time, patience, or industry might very poshbly change to their advantage. These were the thoughts, however unbecoming a Christian, that used frequently to occur to me in my frantic or melancholy hours; and to my shame let me Say it, ' The poshbility of an alteration of circumstances, was one consideration that prevented me from putting a period to my, life by my own hand *. I was willing to rish it in my country’s Service; but had been rejected, on account of excessive mea greness, when I offered myself at Guildhall. The army, however, was the profes
* A perusal of the divine writers (bon convinced me, that my reasoning was fallacious, and were the chief inftruinents of Saving my life.
H 5 fion
#
*
( 154)
fion I resolved to follow; which I now found an opportunity of engaging in, by enlisting in the Eashindia company’s Service, in which the extreme meagrenels of my person was no objection Sufficient to exclude me. I repaired to the place of rendezvous appointed by the printed bill; and after I had been kept three days in a state of ebriety, took the oaths of'allegiance to his Majesty, and fidelity to my masters the honourable Court of Diredors. The Sergeant, under whom I had entered, put me on board a tender, with thirty other recruits, to go down to the veffej, that was lying off Woolwich.
My fellow soldicrs were in the Same tattered condition that I was; five of them were felons come out of Newgate, whose lives were Spared upon condition they bore arms. We formed, upon the whole, a company not unlike falstaff’s, having literally only a shirt and half between the wffiole thirty; before we vere permitted to go from our quarters at the serjeant’s house, we were all hand cussed, and chained in pairs, and were stung into the tender, which lay along tower wharf, like fb many bales of wool: When the whole company was stowed, our fetters were taken off, which seemed to affect the greatest part of my feliow sol
diers with no warhs of extraordinary pleasure,

r •
\
()
Sure, which I attributed to their having long been us’d to much worse treatment.thepurity and elegance of our conversation may be easily conceived; but as I chose to intermix but very little in it, I was looked upon as a Sullen, worthless fellow, and now and then received a blow in my face or stomach, by way of bringing me to myself.
As my Sufferings had impaired my health, and consequently reduced my strength, I was obliged to let these insuits pass unrevenged. My Submishon only provoked
my tyrants the more, and one of the late inhabitants of Newgate, after he had knocked me down, stamped with his feet upon my face Several times, and almost beat my nose fiat by the repeated kicks he gave it with the edge of the heel of his shoe, wdiich was plaited vrith iron; the life of a galley stave is paradise to what I Suffered during the passage down to the ship; my former life now appeared elysium, and I formed a resolution of deserting, as Soon as I should find it pradlicable.
When we arrived at the ship, we were better regulated, and divided into messes; we had the liberty of writing to our friends before the ship unmoored; and as I was the only person, among the recruits, that
could read or write, I was obliged to write
the
#
( 156)
the letters of the whole company; from which employment I was called the Schoolmaster. The ship./got the first tide as far as Shippey; but just at the time the anchor was going to be cast, we run upon a bank; everything was now in an uproar and con fusion; all the boats were hoisted out, and the vessels, that were at anchor near that place. Sent their boats and men to our as fistance; whilst things were in this confusion, I could not forbear keeping my eye upon a cock we had in tow, which was unoccupied; and when all were intent upon the Sat of the ship, I got into it unperceived, cut the rope by which it was fastened, and put off aloxie towards the shore; at which I Soon arrived, and, letting the boat go a drift, run up in the country.
I begged my way to Rochester, where I proposed to halt, till I should receive an answer to a proposal I intended to make my. correspondent, with regard to my return to Jamaica, where I thought I might expect relief, either from my brother Humphrey, or Eugenio.
I frequently posted myself at the door of Some inn, to imiportune the travellers that should stop there; one day, when I was thus placed, a post-chaise from Canterbury strove into the yard, and I thought the faces
of
• '
( 157)
of one of the persons in it resembled Eugenio; I was So transported at this appearance, that I Scarce had strength Sufficient to bear me to the post-chaise; when I was a little recovered, I went to the boy that drove it, and interrogated him about the persons he had brought *, he told me they came from Dover, and believed landed there from a ship lately arrived from the west-indies. Not Satisfied with this answer, I walked backwards and forwards before the windows of the room into which the gentlemen had o one; and was at last convinced
O ^
that one of them was Eugenio; upon this persuafion I went to my room, and, having borrowed pen and ink, wrote a line, by which I informed him, that his old friend and master, Jeremiah Grant, was then at Rochester, and, if agreeable, would wait upon him. I received an answer immediately, in which he expressed the utmost impatience to see me, and, at the Same time, informed me, that his principal errand to Europe was to find me out.
I forthwith shaved, and made myself the most decent figure I could; but still my dress betrayed signs of the greatest indigence; for I was dressed without a shirt, in a brown coat, waistcoat, and breeches, value fifteen pence, a pair of black worsted
stock
\

stockings, darned with a variety of coloured worsted, lb that it was difficult to ascertain the original colour of which they were made; my shoes were slip shod, without any buckles, and the wig, that graced my head, vasa dark grizzle, which had formerly been put to the the use of rubbing shoes, when it was in the occupation of its late master,, who was a shoe black, that keeps his stand in new round court in the Strand; my hat had the greatest part of the flap cut off, in order to make it look like a jockey’s cap.
In this dress I entered the room; where Eugenio was Sitting; when I approached,, I perceived that he changed colour, and,, when he came to embrace me, the briny tears flowed down his cheeks with great' profusion;; made me sit down, and after we had taken a bumper of vine to recruit our Ipirits, he began as follows: “My
“dear Jerry, it is now about eight “months since the conveyance of your e“ “to Mr. -- -- - the merchant came “out to be register’d; by the Same “vessel I likewise heard, that you was ‘‘ reduced to the greatest indigence and “misery. As Soon as I was well assured“ “this matter, I resolved to go to Eng“ “where I intended to find you our,
and
I
t
( *59)
“and relieve you as Sar as my circumstances
“would allow.” I thanked him for his
/
generous and almost unprecedented marks of friendship, and told him, I was sensible my conduct in life had been extravagant, giddy, and very exceptionable, and I was conscious I was very undeserving of the regard ot any of my friends; he replied, “that he knew it was his duty to ashst me, “and what he was going to do, was ab“ “incumbent upon him, and there“ “pretended to no very great merit. “in it.”
We staid at Rochester till a very decent Suit of clothes were made for me, and I was otherv/ise answerably equipped. Eugenio gave me a purse of twenty guineas, and niade over to me the annuity I had formerly given him, payable quarterly into my own hands.
When I arrived in London, I immediately went to the coffee room below at arthur’s, where I Saw many of my old acquaintances, among the rest, the earl of Sparkle, vsho came up to me with an Intention of beginning a conversation; but I turned round upon my heel, and went to the Scotch doctor, that had travelled with his lordship, and entered into conversation with him.
This
• ^
( 1)
This gentleman told me, that Durlach, my swiss governor, after he left me, had travelled with a Dutch baron; and, upon his return to Holland, had commenced an intrigue with a burgo master’s wife; which had been discovered, and Durlach, in con sequence of that discqvery, Sentenced to have all his real and personal estate confiscated, and be imprisoned during life; he added, that, for present fubfistence, he was engaged in a very arduous undertaking, which was a transsation of tristramshandy into French.
The Sunday after, 1 went to the Ordinary where Murdo, Tangent, Pompofo, and the other Reviewers usually met, where I was courteoussy received, and invited to honour the Society every Sunday whilst I staid in town. I gave Murdo five pieces, for which he told me, he would celebrate my praises in a Romance, his bookseller had hired him to write; I told him, as to that, I dcsired to be excused, and wanted no retaliation whatever. He then began to expatiate upon the hardships he daily underwent, from the avarice and conceited io; norance of his bookseller. He Said, that
O '
he had been hired by him to write a Dramatic pastoral to a Set of Scenes a certain manager had got painted; but, after six
- ' weeks
• s
/
()
weeks hard labour, his piece was deemed improper to Suit the Scenery. I took my leave of this Society, with an intention of never returning to it more.
Whilst I was thus diverting myself in looking into the Several places, which I had formerly frequented, either in the meridian of my grandeur, or in my adversity; an account was brought from Jamaica of the death of my brother Humphrey; it seems he died intestate, and never could be pre vai'ed upon to make a Will, though he had been much pressed to it in his last fick ness by his wife: She represented to him the partiality of his father; but he constantly resisted her Solicitations, alleging, that his father’s injustice to him, was no reason that he should do what he thought wrong in another. The Speaker and he had continued their animosities after I had left Jamaica; with which humphrey’s tender heart was Sorely tired, and at last entirely broken.
“Alas! (Said he to his friends that were standing round his bed, dissolved in tears) “I die a martyr to the cruelty and injustice, “to the rancorous persecution of that “western Baftlides\ no Bashaw, no Turk, “or moscovite, could have a heart more “stony, or Surrounded by a thicker coat of
“the
0
( i62)
“the most flinty adamant. Sooner or “later, ' my dearest friends, the day will “come, and fbme of you, I hope, will live “to see, when that hand, the justice of “which has been revered and acknowledge “ed in every climate, and age, and amongst “all conditions, ranks, and Ibrts of men, “of all callings, classes, and denominations, “the time will comie, my dearest and affec “donate friends, I say, when he will re“ “the proper reward for the calamity, the poignant grief, the melancholy hours, “he has caused to your poor, afflicted“ “Humphrey Grant. From the “very dawning of my infancy, fortune, methinks, has made it her bufiness and “delight to make Iport with me, my mo“ “ill placed, cruel, and inhuman par“ “my father’s blind acquiescence in ‘‘ whatever she pleased or thought proper to “do, or didlate, ” - — Here death interrupted his speech. By the death of my brother Humphrey, I now became entitled to his plantation of high grumps, chargeable with his wife’s dower, or thirds, at common-law. Eugenio advised me, by all means, to return to Jamaica, to settle my late brother’s affairs, as there was no probability of their being So well done by attorney, as if I was to be
present; another rnotive was very strong
to
( '63)
to induce me to take the voyage, which was, the completion of my engagement to Lucinda; that divine creature was still living in Kingston, and, what was very remarkable, never had mentioned my name Since 1 Ib shamefully abandoned her.
The news of my brother’s death came by a running ship, which arrived in aei gust; and as my friend advised as Speedy a return as possible, I resolved to go to Falmouth, and embark in the Packet; Eugenio agreed to accompany me to Plymouth, where he intended to consult the celebrated Dr. Huxham, upon a stubborn Scorbutic complaint that had long hung upon him.
My friend told me, he had planned a Scheme of vengeance, which, he Said, it would be the only proper vengeance to execute upon Lyndamira, before we left lon dpn.
Eugenio had got a trusty Servant, that he could confide in, whom he dressed in a rich Suit of clothes, hired of a shopkeeper in monmouth street; this fellow, by the friendly mediation of a lady, that lives in bolton row, Piccadilly, got introduced to Lyndamira, and made an appointment to carry her in his chaise to epsom, where they were to Spend the evening. She, according to the engagement, went down
with
0
%
\
%
( 1^4)
$
with him; and, when she was afieep, he took away every part of her dress, except the linen mirment she then had on, which he brought away, and left her to make the best of her way to London in her naked condition.
When the man arrived in London, loaded with the meretricious Spoils, we Set out to enjoy her confusion and distress; and drove to the very houle, where we knew she was, and had the Satisfadlion to lee her in the public kitchen of the inn with only a blanket about her. shoulders, shivering with cold, and gazed at by all the rabble that came in to See her. The maids of the inn refused to lend her clothes, and she could find no messenger to Send to London, unless she would pay him before he let out; which there was no poshbility of her doing, as she had no money herself, neither would the people lend her any.
She was therefore under the necessity of staying at the inn in her distressed condition, till she had an answer to a letter she had written by the post to London. When we went into the kitchen, we pretended at first not to know her; but she was as quick in recolledling me now, as she formerly had been upon another occasion; she told the people in the inn, that the gentleman
just
d
»
()
just arrived, knew whom she was, and desired I might be called to give an attestation of her capacity of paying any money she should borrow; nay, she was So weak as to imagine, that I would lend her Ibmie myself; but, upon the landlord’s desiring me to tell him what I knew of her, I returned to the kitchen, and, after giving her the mortification of declaring publicly who she was, and where I had known her; I told the landlord, that she was a woman of an infamous character, and advised him not to harbour her in his house; upon which he thrust her out of doors, without the least remorse at the many remonstrances and entreaties she made upon the occasion.
The issue of this adventure was, that her noble gallant was So enraged at her long stay from home, and at the loss of her watch and trinkets, diat he discarded her; when we were informed of her fate, we Sent her back privately the paraphernalia that had been taken from her.
As Soon as we had Settled our affairs in London, we Set out for Falmouth. As Eugenio had never heard a connected detail of my adventures, I related them as we were travelling; and, more than once during the recital, that worthy creature shed
tears.
/
$
( i66)
tears. In the middle of a very long stage, on die other fide of Exeter, late in the evening, our chaise broke down, and, what perplexed us the more we found there was no possibility of its being mended that night, as the blacksmith of the village was gone to a country wake at Some distance, and would not return that evening. While the people of the village were repairing our machine as well as they could, I walked on, and was struck with the beauty of a field of corn, which was cultivated according to Mr. tull’s method. Upon inquiry, the people of the village told us, it was the glebe of Mr. johnson, the Rector of the parish, who was a man of great worth.
This gentleman was standing at the par fonage door as we passed by, and very courteoussy invited us to walk in, and repose ourselves. His house was small, but neat, and rendered very agreeable by the good lense and complacency of its master. As our conversation naturally turned upon our journey, when the clergyman learned that I was going to Falmouth, in order to embark for Jamaica in the Packet, he told me he was a native of one of his majesty’s sugar colonies; we could perceive a sigh steal from him, as he gave us this information.
0
( 1^7)
mation. Upon our ashing him, of which issand, he Said it was Barbados. It now occurred to me, this gentleman might post Sibly be a relation of my friend johnson, who formerly had been So Serviceable to ' me in my education, and probably might give me Some account of his lot; I therefore ashed him, whether he was acquainted with a person of his own name, who had formerly been educated under the care of Mr. Balance, the wcst india merchant? He told me, that he was that person; I immediately made myself known to him, and we embraced with great cordiality. He insisted upon outstaying that night; and Mrs. johnson (who had the carriage and deportment, which leemed to bespeak Something above what one might expect in a country parson’s wife) went out to prepare Supper, and our beds.
He gave us a very comfortable repast, which was rendered the more palatable, by the most evident marks of hospitality in our. landlord. I had expressed a desire of knowing his story, which he promised to relate after Supper. Eugenio Seemed highly pleas ed with johnson’s conversation, and often remarked, that our carriage breaking down was rather a lucky, than an unfortunate ac dden.
When
%
( i68)
When the lady had withdrawn after Supper, I repeated my desire of hearing johnson’s adventures, which, I conceived, must be extraordinary, as he had always been reckoned at concord’s, heir apparent to a very large plantation in Barbados. I told him he need be under no restraint upon account of eugenio’s presence, as he was a person he might Safely place the lame confidence in, as in myself. He began as follows:
CHAP. XIII
My father was a man possessed of an
estate of five thousand pounds a year in the issand of Barbados; my mother, whole favourite I had been from my cradle, was the only daughter of a gentleman of St. christopher’s, and had an only brother; but my mother, unfortunately for me, died Soon after I came to Europe. As far as my leaving School, you know my story. From concord’s I was Sent to Leyden, where Balance, with his usual .parsimony,
appointed me an allowance much below,
what
/
i i6g)
what an heir apparent to five thousand pounds a year, and an only Son, might ex pe6t; (for my father’s family consisted but of me and my Sister) and even below what was necessary for a person that was to live upon the footing of a gentleman. I wrote to my father upon this subjest, and he increased it; but, at the Same time. Sent my ib reprimanding a letter, that I was a good deal alarmed. About this time I heard that my lister was married to an Irish physician in Barbados. I prosecuted my studies with vigour and assiduity, and was generally e steemed as well by the masters and profel sors of the University, as well as by the noblemen and gentlemen, that were students; among the latter I was a good deal caressed, and flattered myself that I had formed connexions which would, in all probability, be ornamental, and possibly might be iise full in the future part of my life; when I had been at Leyden two years, I wrote to my father for his permission to make a short tour through Holland, and part of Germany; but I had the mortification to receive a very laconic denial, with an in junxion to repair to London immediately, and commence the study of the Law; for that he (my father( intended I should get' my livelihood by that profession, I accordi
iogl/
( .Do)
ingly obeyed his ordei, and was entered of gray’s inn; at which place, to my shame be it Said, the allurements of pleashre, and the dissipation of a town life, prevented me from ever opening a book.
A templar’s life is too well known, to make it necessary for me to give you an account of it now; youth, strong passions, and the company of many agreeable men, with whom my acquaintance begun at Leyden, which was now grown and cemented into a friendship, hurried me into many excesses and extravagancies, which, though excusable at my time of life, yet did not escape the ear of my father, and were heightened and improved by thole
who represented them to him. -- -- -- -- But,
notwithstanding the expenses of a gay life, I still kept within the limits of my appointments.
After I had been a twelvemonth at the Inn of Court, I received an immediate Summons to the west-indies; but was prevented by a fever and ague from obeying it So Soon, by four months, as I might otherwise have done, which was afterwards made a heavy charge against me : at length when I was perfectly recovered, I went o ver; but the reception I met with was far from being So warm or affectionate, as an
only
#0
/
( II)
only Son, who had been absent Sixteen years, had reason to expect from a good father; this coolness and reserve I attributed to an oddity in his dispofition and temper, as I heard several people speak very highly in commendation of his heart and understanding; the latter I could perceive he was by no means deficient in; in short, he was a - man of lense with a good heart; but still, as it sometimes happens to men, in other respeds of good understanding, liable to be grossly imposed upon, and misted by persons he had placed a confidence in, whole advice he would follow implicitly, though, contrary to the dictates of nature and rea ibn; my Hibernian brother-in-law and his wife, I perceived, had got his ear, and laid Siege very closely to his person, So that it was morally impossible for me to get an explanation in private of his past behaviour.
My brother-in-law, though called do dor in Barbados, I learned had been bred a surgeon and apothecary in Dublin, and had been obliged to sty his country, for having enlisted men, during the time of the rebellion, for the pretender, to whose cause he was most zealousty attached; but had apparently changed his principles, that they might coincide with my father’s, which were diametrically opposite to his real ones.
I 2 His
1
#
i
it
I >
«
(172)
I • • -
I His dissimulation, in this matter, was ex
I ceedeid by nothing, but the oblequious and
I lycophantic adulation he paid my father;
I in which he imitated an artsust but extra
j N ^
vagant, brother of my father’s, who had Succeeded So well as to draw ten thousand pounds from him, to Set him up as a sugar baker, which he, in a few months. Spent every farthing of; and was obliged to go to the east-indies as a fadlor of the company, where he was afterwards frequently Supplied with large Sums from the Same hand. Another brother of his own, and this sugar baker, had likewise cost him five thousand pounds.
When these adls of unheard of liberality, to objects that abused them, are confi ^ ■ dered, I am at a loss to reconcile them with
his conduct towards me, his only Son, who never offended him in thought, word, or deed. These were models my brother surgeon and apothecary always had in his eye; and he Scrupled no means, however wicked and dishonourable, to compass his designs upon the inheritance, which had been tranlrnitted by a long Succession of ancestors to my father; my anxiety, at this state of affairs, encreased, and did not contribute, in a Small degree, to Sour my temper; I found there was no remedy but patience,
#
f
( 173)
tience, and a resignation to providence. After having been there three years, I returned to Europe, and, as I had been told, alas! too foolishly believed, that my father’s estate had been fettled upon his marriage, and that he had an estate only for life, with a remainder to his issue in tail, I relblved to ■ marry as Soon as I conveniently could, to exclude, if possible, the Hibernian, and his progeny, from any hopes of the inheritance; and, for that purpose, wrote to my father; who, after his concise and indolent method, some years after answered me, that I might do as I pleased, and that any per son I fixed upon, would please him.
I went, the Summer after, to Scarborough, where I got acquainted wkh an agreeable young lady, that I thought of a dispofition and family, that would Suit me; she was at that place under the care of a mother, who had been a widow ten years, and was accompanied by a brother of about fourteen years of age. They resided in the winter, in bishopsgate street in the city of London, with an elderly gentleman, father of their late father, who was a portuguese merchant, a man of eminence and Substance, and who was invested with one of the greatest public employments of the city. When 1 came to London, to wait upi
S
I
( 174 } ■
on the lady, I thought I should have been I devoured with civility and kindness from
the family. Her fortune,, they told me,
I was stnall; but the strongest verbal assurances
vere given me in private, that'i 1 should have a considerable place in the
I grandfather’s will.
The harmony of the family was very great and remarkable, for the exceshve mutual attention there appeared between the grandfather and the daughter in law; the young gentleman was .idolised by the former. The day of marriage being appointed, the grandfather promised he would, make his granddaughter a present of the
complete furniture of a house, which was only five hundred pounds, and a piece of plate of a considerable value, which he I went with me one day to a lilver fmith to I choose. This civility continued till, by
i his importunity, he had prevailed upon me
I to execute a release, without examining the i accounts of my wife’s late father, who! had been his partner in the [trade to Portugal, after which his behaviour immediately
changed. Orders were now given for fur ‘ nishirig the house, and the piece of plate I
had chose, had his own coat of arms engraved noon it, and used in the house.
When
ct
( 175)
When the news of my marriage was received in Barbados, every disadvantageous circumstance, relating to my wife’s fortune, c. was improved by the Hibernian, and my want of respedt, in not consulting my father, about the person I married in particular, was represented upon every convenient occasion, which were frequently found. By which means my father was So irritated against me, that, without giving me any previous notice, withdrevr the allowance he had hitherto made me; and, I was told, he had barred the intail of his estate, and, by his will, had left all his fotune, both real and personal, to my brother-in-law, except one shilling, which he had given me.
I sent for a copy of my grandfather’s will, and a copy of my father’s marriage settlement from the register office; and found, too late, that my father had a fee tail in the estate, which, by the operation of a recovery, was rendered a fee fimple, consequently in his own disposal.
As Soon as my Situation was known, my civil grandfather and mother in law Sought every occasion of breaking with me and my wife; (for she has been involved in th Same ruin with myself.) At last, my Spirit being no longer able to brook the indignit
I 4 tie.
C
i
N
'( 176)
ties, with which they not only treated us themselves, but encouraged their favourite boy to offer us, we broke off all communication with them, and have never resumed it to this day.
Happy vasi that I had taken this refb solution, when I came to be told of their villainy; for I was afterwards credibly in ibrmeci, that this mother in law carried on a criminal intercourse with her hushand’s father during his life, and still lived with him in a state of incestuous concubinage; that she had broken her hushand’s heart by her wicked course of life; and that, in all probability, many of the hushand’s effects had been embezzled by his father, who was left foie executor. I was faither told, that the foward petulant young gentleman, that had been egged on to insult us, was the if sue of their incestuous embraces; in the last instance Iwasconfirmed by his remark "^able fondness for him, and, with regard to his dishonesty, I was likewise convinced what I heard was true, by his eagerness to make me execute a release to him.
My father’s death Soon after happened; and, according to his will, I had one shilling, and no more, sent me by his executor in England.
What
✓
/
( 177)
What makes me blame, I had almost Said, abhor my sather’s unnatural usage of me is, that his indolence had been the occasion of my losing an estate of two thousand pounds a year in Sr. christopher’s, which my grandfather, by tie ‘moiher fide, had macle a voluntary conveyance of to me after his death irrevocable, and had given the instrument to my father to have ' registered; but he never took the trouble ■ of going to St. christopher’s within the year after the execution, appointed for the registring all deeds in that issand; and my grandfather, knowing that the deed was
o o
null and void, married a young woman, to whom he left the estate, which, had it not been for my father’s unpardonable neglect, must have been mine.
Abandoned and neglected by my own relations, despifing and detesting the ways of my wife’s kindred, I was thus fet a drift in the world. My progress in the law was trifling; I therefore could hope to get nothing by that profeshon. I had Some friends left, who had caressed me in my prosperity,, that I trusted would ashst me
in my adversity. -- -- -- But, alas! I knew
mankind but little; for, one day, when I assembled Some of my greatest intimates, and laid the state of my affairs before them,
I 5 ' I per
/
178)
I perceived an immediate reserve in those I most depended upon, and Some even treated me with contempt.
A whole year was Ipent in sruitless ibl licirations for Some place or employment; at last, one day reading in the Daily Advertiser, that the next presentation to a living with an old incumbent was to be Sold; it struck me, that the best thing I could do, would be to take Orders, and piirchase the presentation *, Soon after I put my idea in practice, and, ' fortunately, it was not long before the late incumbent died.
My wife is contented with her lot, and I live perfectly happy; we are blessed with two fine babes, her namesake and mine. My days are ipent in attending to < my business in husbandry, and in the execution of my office, being honoured with a commission of the Peace. I Sincerely forgive my enemies, and pray that the Almighty may turn their hearts.
Eugenio, as well as myself, was exceedingly touched with this sensible and pathetic recital of johnson’s. Our eyes were more than once, filled with tears, vv^hich, to our additional Sorrow, drew Some from that unfortunate and worthy man.
CHAP.
I
( 09)
V
\
CHAP. XIV
X re R Y luckily the Packet was ready to ^ Sail, when I arrived at Falmouth, and I agreed for my passage at the usual price of twenty-five pounds. There were two other persons, who had likewise taken their passage in the Same vessel. We let out with a fair wind; my fellow passengers vrere creoles of Nevis, who had been bred at a Grammar school, and afterwards went to cambridge;; whence they had beest expelled for assaulting and striking their Tutor, and aftervrards putting him in a '%ucket, and Suipending him halfway down a well, during a cold winters night; by which he catched a violent cold and fever, and was very near his death.
They were returning to the place of their birth; one of them Seemed to have a very good share of natural abilities; but had Split upon the Same rock that I had done on my Second peregrination to Great Britain.
We diverted ourselves, for the first week, by shooting at seagulls, and other birds; at which our Cantabrigians were exceedingly expert, having employed the
greatest part of their time, during their residence

#
I
( io)
fidence at the University, in shooting in the Fens. “Pray, gentlemen, Saids I, was “your whole time devoted to shooting, at “that leat of learning. So famous all over “Europe, for the great Scholars, and fine gentlemen, it has produced?” “Yes, (answered one of them) for we had nothing “elle to do. Our tutor was incapable of “teaching us, though he pretended to un “derstand mathematics, logic, metaphy “lies, classics, astronomy, ethics, the law “of nature and nations.” He fit to break a gentleman, (continued the other, who was a thoroughbred Sportsman)) “is “not fit to break a dog; how should a “pedant, that has lived all his life amongst “a parcel of low, ill-bred fellows of col“ “with notions as contracted as his “own, be capable of teaching gentlemen “knowledge and good breeding?” Thus these graceless Sons of Alma mater cantahri gienjts used, frequently to abuse the gentleman, under whole care they had been placed, to be taught the academical parts of literature.
The master of the packet had been commander of a Small privateer in the 'last war, which had cruised chiefly in the Mediterranean; by which means he had been a
good deal on shore in the Several ports of
Ita
t
/
A
( ISI)
Italy. He had learned to fence, to dance, and ride the great horse; upon which accomplishments he valued himself not a little. He was well versed in romances, and had conceived a remarkable veneration for all Mr. richardson’s performances; Clarissa Harlowe was his admiration, Pamela pleased him much; but Sir Charles grandison was, in his opinion, the perfection of human invention. It was the last mentioned character that he had made the model of his condu6t, an example which he kept constantly in his eye; the cabin was littered • all over wgh different parts of those pathetic and voluminous produclions; an abridgment of which, a wag, not long ago, with lome humour, published proposals for printing in an hundred volumes in folio.
The captain, and my two fellow passengers had frequent disputes upon several paf sages in Joleph, Andrews, Tom Jones, Peregrine Pickle, and other ingenious works, that have graced the annals of English literature; in which the Son of Neptune generally had the advantage, as those authors had, for a long time, been his favourite and constant study; he Seemed to have but a very mean opinion of my intelledls, when I told him, that I admired fielding’s character of parson Adams, more than any other

»
( 182)
there in any Romance whatever; even more than his favourite Sir Charles grandison.
When we had got into the latitude thirty-one north, there arose a most violent storm; the waves ran mountains high; the imitator of Sir Charles grandison exerted liimself, to excite each mariner to give all the ashstance in his power towards Saving us from perdition; the vessel made a considerable deal of water, and a Sudden gust of wind laid our mainmast by the board; all hands were employed in cutting the rigging away, and disentangling the ship of all encumbrances; we continued in this desponding condition for at least a fortnight, and, in forty hours, must inevitably have gone to the bottom, had not the wind abated; but, luckily, a calm Succeeded the gale of wind, which gave us the opportunity of putting up jury masts, and getting the ship in readiness to make the best of our way to the issand of Madeira, where vte now resolved to put in, in order to refit; as it was impossible to proceed to the west-indies, without a considerable repair; we made shift to get intofanshall in a fortnight after our accident, and received all possible assistance from the English con sul, and other gentlemen of the fadtory;
by whom we were very Ifindly and hospitably

( JSJ)
tably entertained; the two academical gentlemen went to a neighbouring issand upon a party of shooting, whilst the ship: was repairing, which place was remarkable for its fine partridges, and other game; for which expedition they were exceedingly well equipped, having each his pointer, that he brought from England with him.
I diverted myself with viewing the local cliriosities of the extraordinary issand of Madeira, which is a large mountain placed in the Sea; the ascent begins from the very shore, and continues, without any Sensible interruption, to the very Summit of the
hill
I used very frequently to go in the town of Fanshall, to buy artificial flowers of the
^ J
Nuns, which they made with great ingenuity and dexterity; every time I went to that place, I perceived a beautiful young woman sitting by the fide of the iron bars, by which they are prevented from getting out of the Convent, in a pensive and melancholy Situation her figure struck me the first time I was there •, and observing her continually in the Same place, and with, the Same gloomy aspedt upon her countenance; one evening, when she was there alone, I I endeavoured to make myself understood
to her in Italian, but without fuccess; for
3s
( i84)
as the reader already knows, what I learned of that language during my rour through Italy with the earl of Sparkle, was by no means Sufficent to enable me to hold a conversation; I next accosted her in English, but to as little effect as I had done in Italian; I at last Spoke to her in French, which she talked very fluently, and with a remarkable good accent.
She Seemed overjoyed to find a person, to whorh she could unbosom herself without fear or rescrve : She told me, she discovered in my features a proneness to compassion and Sympathy, which she had rarely noticed in others; and thanked heaven for having thrown a peribn in her way, to whom she could communicate her misfortunes, with a hope of their being alleviated.
She began her story by telling me, that “she was the only daughter of a gentleman of the best family, and most considerable “fortune in the island of Madeira. My “father (she continued) was fond of me “in my infancy to excels; all his joy seem“ “totally to centre in me; my mother “died whilst I was young. So that my fa“ “was, for many years, a widower.
“The death of one of his brothers, who “was an officer in the portuguese Service at y Lishon, obliged him to repair to that
y place,
O
.A.
C 1s5)
‘‘ place, in order to Settle his affair?, having “got a large inheritance by his death. • “When he took this voyage, he lest me “in Madeira, under the tuition of a French governess, who used me with the utmost “tenderness, and has Since, by her anxiety “for my welfare and advice during my “misfortunes, been a real mother to me.
“I was not a little surprised to hear. Soon “after my father had been at Lishon, that “he was paying his addresses to a lady of “that place; the report I too Soon found “was well founded; for I received a letter from my father, in which he told me, that he was sensible he should appear cul“ “to me, and to most of his friends,
“by the step he had taken; but that he “had been So long tiled to a domestic life,
“particularly in his last fickness, he had felt “the want of a careful and affeduonate “woman about his person, he had been “engaged to take the step he then inform“ “me of; he added, that his own happi “ness was to be preferred, notwithstanding “the censures of the world.
“Soon after I received this letter, my “father returned to Madeira with his bride;
her behaviour to me at first was kind “and civil; but was tempered with lb “much ceremony, that I was then afraid,
“as
/
()
“as I asterwards, by fatal experience found,
“that her kindness was a mark and cover “to her wicked and artful intentions. My “father still continued his affection, which “I verily shhieve his new connexion had
^ “by no means diminished.”
This amiable woman had got thus far in her recital, when she was interrupted by one of the Nuns, who came to tell her, that the bell was just going to ring to vespers; So that I was obliged to postpone, hearing the Sequel of her story till three days after, when she entreated me to be present at the grate at the same hour, as she had Something of the utmost importance to communicate to me; and she added, I might have It m my power to Save an innocent person from eternal perdition.
I desired the appointment might be made for a Iboner day, as our ship was repaired,
i and was to Sail in a day or two at farthest;
but she informed me it was not in her power to comply with my desire, as the two following days were annually Set apart entirely for prayer and devotion, and that
j the windows were all kept closely shut
I ' up.
I was not only prompted by curiosity,
but by humanity and benevolence,
II to wait in order, to hear the Sequel of the
I nun’s
• II
* ■
II i. •
ll
( i8;)
nun’s story. Upon my return to my abode in the town, I Saw the Captain of the packet, who told me that he was resolved to Sail the evening following. I begged him to defer it two days longer; but it was in vain to endeavour to bend this Son of Neptune •, his resolution was unalterable.. A day or two’s longer stay will be no very extraordinary detriment to you. Captain, I Said to him; you will oblige me exceed ingly, if you will comply with my request. “Mr. Grant, he (answered) I would will“ “do anything consistent with my ‘‘ honour and duty, to Serve you, or any other gentleman; but I am in the service“ “the government, and one day’s delay “may be of consequence to the state : Do “you think if Sir Charles grandison was “in my place, he would prefer private friendship to his duty to his countryhe “is the pattern I always have in my eye;
“therefore, my dear Sir, I must Sail to“ “
He accordingly Set Sail without any of his passengers; for I was resolved, at all events, to wait the issue of the nun’s recital; and the two gentlemen of Nevis were still upon their shooting party in the issand near Madeira.
In
( i88)
In order the better to conceal from the gentlemen ot the Fadlory, the true reason of my staying, I pretended an indisposition; and the deceit was favoured by the ignorance of a physician of the ifiand, who was imposed upon by my affected complaints. On the evening appointed I repaired to the grate of the Convent, where I found the beautiful Nun in her usual station. After the first Salutations were over, she continued her story as follows : “My mother in “law was pregnant very Ibon after her ar“ “and was in due time delivered of a daughter.
“Having now attached my father to her “by the strongest of all ties, namely, - the “fruits of their embraces; she began to “to throw off the mask in her behaviour “towards me, and by degrees wore off the “kindness and civility with which she for“ “had treated me, and, after Some “time, broke out into an open enmity. “No stone was left unturned to injure me “in the esteem 'of my father, and every “opportunity was Seized with eagerness of “heightening and misrepresenting any little “inadvertency or indiferetion that youth is “So apt to commit; by her repeated arti“ “and endeavours to estrange my fa“ “affection from me, she at last Suc“
“
m
A
( 1^9)
ceeded So well, as to create a coolnels;
“my grief and concern on this triumph “was inexpreshble; the Sweet hours of “unthinking youth were now tindtured “with the gall and wormood of anxiety “and grief; my mother’s intention was “to Secure the inheritance to herself and “offspring.
“She still continued indefatigable, and “called in to her aid every means, how“ “wicked and unjust, to compass her “detestable views upon my patrimony.
“She had learned to forge my hand writ “ing So exactly, that it was imposhble to “distinguish which was the real one; and “had the baseness to write a letter in my hand to one of my father’s valets, with a declaration of love, and a proposal of “marrying him secretly, and going off the issand to a foreign country. She had “gained this valet to her interest by a large Sum of money; and the letter, contain“ “the declaration of love, was, one night after I was gone to bed, carried to “my father. His indignation at this offer to “derogate from his name and blood, was “proportionate to his pride, and veneration “for his pedigree, which he pretended to “derive from the race of the reigning house “of Braganza.
“In
I
I
; ' ' '
t
( 190)
i
'^hn his first transport of rage he called for his Sword, and Swore he would that “moment put a period to my life, and, with his own hand, prevent me from dis “gracing his illustrious house; he ran upstairs with a naked dagger in his' hand, “and, without giving me time to open the “door, broke it open. Seized me by the “hair of my head, and dragged me out “bed; his eyes being kindled with fury, “rolled as if he had been distradled.
“I fell upon my knees, and, in a stood “of tears, asked him what could engage ‘‘ him to treat, as the vilest of wretches, one that was Iprung from his own loins, and V ho had made it the study of her life “to honour and obey him ^ Wretch, he “answered, as thou art, it is a mark of my ‘‘ clemency that I Suffer you to live one ‘‘ moment. I beseeched him to let me know the crime I was accused of; upon which he pulled the letter out of his pocket, and bid me read it instantly. When I “had perused the contents of it, I was So thunderstruck with amaze and astonish“ “that 1 thought I should have Sunk “into the earth; but recollecting that my wonder might be construed into a mark “of guilt, 1 again fell upon my knees, y and entreated him, by the Sacred and
y bind
t
\
I
< j
0
( 192)
“binding ties of. nature with which we “were connected, for once to trust my “word, and look upon the whole as a vile “and base imposition, used by Ibme de“ “person to alienate his affections“ “the most dutiful and affectionate of “dauq hters.
O
“My French governed, who lay over “head, having heard the noise of my fa“ “breaking open my door, had got “up, and entered my room, just as I had ‘‘ a Second time prostrated myself at my “father’s feet; when she heard the crime “1 was charged with, she immediately de“ “it was all a calumny, and that, to “her certain knowledge, I had never wrote “a line for three weeks past, having con“ “been abouf|my person. My fa“ “was a little pacified by my gover “ness’s attestation, and left the room. As “soon as he was gone, I dressed my Seif, “and passed the remainder of the night in “lamenting the hardship and cruelty of my “lot.
“My father, though he had been paci “fied the night before by what my gover “ness had said;; when he mentioned “her attestation to his wife; she said, that “she had no interest in showing him the letter, any more than as she was allied to
“him,
#
( 192)
him, and had the honour of his name and house at heart. The valet was called up “to offer his testimony, which he gave directly against me; and farther added, that I had long regarded him with an a“ “eye; but that no consideration should ever persuade him to Swerve from his duty to So good a master.
“My father being now fully convinced, “that ihe crime laid to my charge was “justly grounded, came to the resolution, to which he bound himself by the most “Solemn oaths, never to look upon me “more as his child'.
“I had a message, never to appear in “his prelence from that time. I endea “voured very often to mitigate my sen tence by letters; but they were always returned unopened. My governess once “begun to talk to him upon the Subject;;
, “he interrupted her abruptly, and threatened to turn her out of doors, if I ‘‘ ever she should dare to open her lips to
“him for the future upon that Subject“ “told her, however, that he would for“ “me in his conscience, provided I “would go into a Convent, and there pass “the remainder of my days.
“I readily embraced this proposal, being then ignorant of the misfortunes that
“were
1
/
V
f.
X
( 193,)
were Still in store for me; for you must “know, kind Englishman, that my vin“ “mother in law, not contented with “having drove me from my father’s houle,
“and Secured the inheritance to herseif and “child, but still resolved to pursue me in “these melancholy cells. The abbess is “in her pay, and has been bribed to ma ke “my life as irksome and insufferable here, as it formerly had been during the latter “part of the time that I resided in my fa ther’s houle.
“I confess, a monastic life was never my own desire or inclination; it is con“ “to the dictates of reason and nature.
“We were all intended, by the wile Crea “tor of the world, to live in Society, and “it is in vain we pervert his view the “more to Serve him. I continued my “year’s Noviciate; but when I was led to “the holy altar, and the fatal Scissors put “to my hair, then it was I felt that com“ “of mind that I never shall for“ “I had gone too far to recede, but “even supposing that I had been willing “to have returned to Society, what must I “have donemy father’s houle would “have been shut to me, and I must have wandered about like a vagabond and an V out cast.
K i‘the
/ -
#
• *
I
‘ i
.
J
I ( 1-94)
f
“The abbess, and other Nuns, behaved “to me with infinite kindness during my “noviciate; but as Soon as I had taken “the Satal vow, my mother’s ill offices be“ “to be Selt; the abbess every morn“ “harangued me upon the fault I had “committed when I was at home; this “was not done privately, but at table, be“ “all the listers, and the priest that “confessed us; I was therefore looked up“ “as a person of a prossigate character“ “the fisterhood, who had been forced by my parents to retire into this religious “asylum. I was treated with disrelpedt, “not only by the nuns, but likewise by the “father contessbi*, who looked upon me as “a certain prey; for this detestable man “carried on a criminal intercourse with “many of my companions; the innocent “fruits of whose embraces had been mur dered in their birth, and flung down the
'' “Cloaca.
“This I learned from a good old nun, who perceived the persecution I under“ “and guessed the cause of it by the private intercourses he was privy to, that “Subsisted between my mother in law and “the abbess.
“The confessor, every time he has been “in private with me, has endeavoured by
y words,
»
( 195)
words, by gentle ones at first, asterwards by harsh ones, and at last by corporal • “insults, to prevail upon me to comply “with his libidinous desires. I always “dread the time of confessing, which is generally once a week. The abbess has, of late, made it her study to mortify me “in every circumstance that was in her power, which, joined to the brutal and indecent behaviour of the priest, has made me come to the resolution of leaving the Convent, and flying to a Pro“ “country, where I shall be able to get a livelihood, either by my needle, or as governels to the children of Ibme gen“ “man.
“I know the generous and benevolent character of people of your nation; and if your heart is filled with any noble and “compassionate sentiments, let me conjure “you, by all that is Sacred and good in “the universe, to afford me your kind as“ “in effedting my escape. We “have a garden backwards. Surrounded by “high walls, into which we have acceis “at all times of the day and night; and “if you could contrive to fix a rope lad der on each Side, I should, by that means,
, be able to make my escape.”
K 2 I was
\
I
;
I
(19^)
I was So moved by the pathetic story of this unfortunate young lady, that I immediately promised to give her all the Succour
in my power; and promised to restedl; upon the best means of her escaping from. the Convent.
I took my leave for that evening, and; promised to meet her in three days, in
I which time I did not doubt but I should
be able to fall upon Some Scheme, in order to facilitate her intention of going off. I had brought only twenty guineas with me from Falmouth; but, as I had the appearance of a gentleman, had as much credit with the merchants of the Factory as I desired, which enabled me the more easily to effect the Scheme I bad concerted I went to a remote part of the istand, pretty near the Summiit of the mountain, where I hired a Small lodging in the house of a poor vine yard keeper, under the pretence of a design of going a shooting in thole parts; 1 told the people of the house I should be there very late at night; but on what particular night, it was not in my power to determine; therefore took away the key to let myself in, when I should have occasion to go in. This matter being fettled, I bought a light fowling piece, and having made a long
rope
I
I
f
I /
I
I
i
A
y
(197)
rope ladder, with Sour pins, to Sasten it to each fide of the convent wall, and having likewise bought a strong mule, a Saddle, and a pillion; I now proposed to repair to the grate of the Convent on the evening appointed, ' where the unhappy prisoner would wait for me with longing impatience.
The evening after I had heard the sequel of the lady’s story, I was disturbed by a confused noise of people, that, by the sound. Seemed to be Scuffling in the street, and, among other languages, I could distinguish the words, help and murders I instantly took my Sword, and ran into the street, where I Saw two persons pushed very hard by six Portuguese in long cloaks, with im mense Swords in their right hands, and daggers, or stilleto’s, in their left; the weaker were armed with sticks only, and were bending under the united efforts and weight of their antagonists. I drew my Sword, and ranged myself in the rank of the weakest fide, which I Soon found to consist of my two countrymen, who had that evening returned from their party of shooting in the issand Situated near Madeira. I'he Portuguese were very bad swordsmen, and had unwieldy weapons. So that I eafi
K 3 ly
#
;
i
i
(19.8 ^
ly disarmed one, and wounded two or three others. Fortune now changed Sides, and I the Portuguele gave ground, which the
i Cantabrigians perceiving, rushed on with
Such impetuosity, that we Soon put the enemy to flight; just as our adversaries had taken to their heels, a guard came up,,
I which made us all prisoners, and v/e were
forthwith conduced to the provodore’s
»
I house, where, after having waited six hours
without being admitted to his presence, we lent for the English consui, who went in to him, and obtained our immediate discharge.
O
Our tvi?'o creoles, it Seems, had offered an insult to one of the peribns, who had attacked them, by kishng his hand to his wife, that was peeping at him, through a jealoiisy.
After this fray was adjusted, we went to a Portuguese concert and ball, where we were invited, and danced with male partners, the females being admitted only to look at us through a glass door.
The appointed evening at length arrived, when I was to meet the unhappy fair one at the grate; accordingly I repaired thither at the hour she had named, and laid before her the plan I had concerted, which she >
greatly approved of; that very evening, at
the
\
f
i 199)
the time the clock should strike twelve, she was to be in the convent garden; at about half an hour aster eleven I Saddled' my mule, put oh the pillion, and loaded it with the rope ladder, and a Suit of man’s clothes, which I bought the day before, to disguise the Nun, as Soon as she should clear the wall. I placed myself in a Small street opposite to the Convent; but unluckily at the very time the clock was striking twelve,, there pasted Several people with lanthorns, who had been at a grand Supper the merchants had given, this oliged me to change my station, and make a circuit of a street to avoid them, which detained me ten minutes; at length I repaired to the part of the wall I had described to the fair one, and, having stung, over one end of the ladder, the other beino: fastened to the ground with strong wooden pins, I railed myself to the top of the wall, by means of a rope with a hook at the end of it, which easily was fixed to the top of the wall: Up I went, and discovered the amiable creature near the wall on the other fide; I was as alert as possible, and having fastened the pins in the garden of the Convent, made the young Nun go up before me; as Soon as we had got Safe on the o there fide, we mounted the mule, leaving
K 4 the
#
i
N
f
( 200)
the ladder fixed, and took the road towards the lodging I had hired near the top of the hill; when we had got about a league from the town, we dismounted, and the female traveller clothed herself in man’s attire; after which we stung her own a amongst Some stags that grew by the fide of a rivulet. She told me, she had almost fainted away, when she found that I did not appear upon the striking of the clock. We arrived at the lodging I had taken before daybreak, where I kept the Nun concealed for two days, without letting the people of the house know I had brought her along with me.
The modesty of that virtuous young woman was lb great, that she never would undress herself whilst she was in my lodging, till I absolutely insisted upon her taking my bed; whilst I made the best lodging I could for myself in the room adjoining with my greatcoat, and Ibme blankets I borrowed from the vineyard keeper. The delicacy of her sentiments, and the e legance of her conversation Soon convinced me, that her recital was wholly founded upon matter of fact.
The greatest difficulty now remaining, was a method of getting her off the istand undiscovered. I Sent a peasant to town with
a let
%
()
a letter to my merchant in London, de firing he would order one of his outward bound ships to touch at Madeira, to take me up; which letter I enclosed to the English consul, desiring it might be sorward ed by way of Lishon, or Cadiz. When the peasant returned, he told us, that the Inquisitors were making very diligent Search after a Nun, that had escaped from the Convent in Fanshall, and the person that had been accessory and assisting to her e lopement. I now thought it was time for us to change our abode, and proposed to hire a boat to carry me to the issand, from which my two countrymen had lately returned. I accordingly went across the mountain to the sea fide, and hired a bark, which was to be ready in three days after : ■ I went back to the unfortunate nun, who waited for my arrival with a good deal of impatience; and the evening following we proposed to remove our quarters, and, to that purpose, had washed our linen, packed up our baggage, and prepared ourselves for the fatigue of the journey.
In the morning, when we were eating our breakfast, which consisted of goats milk and brown bread, I perceived my companion, when she came from the window, in order to sit down,, turn pale;
k5 and,.
( 202)
and, before I had time to ask her the reason of it, she told me that we were both devoted to the flames; for she had Seen the officers of the inquisition below: The room we were in, was up one pair of stairs, and the door had very good fastenings to it; I therefore immediately secured it, and loaded my fowling piece with Several Slugs and large shot; and determined to defend myself as Charles the Xllth of Sweden had done at Bendar; nay, I resolved to die with my musket in my hand. Sooner than Surrender myself, or give up the unfortunate lady, who had put herself under my protedfion, to be made the Sport of the most cruel institution, that it has ever been in the power of human wickedness to invent.
I
The officers of the inquisition Soon came to the door; but finding it locked, began to endeavour to break it open, they had brought a guard of ten Soldiers with them, and had assembled at least twenty of the country people, who are obliged to obey their orders, on pain of the Severest punishment; when I found the staircase was filled, and the landing place just opposite the door, I put two additional balls into my musket, which I levelled through the door
as near the midst of them as I could guess;
the
¥
( 203)
the mussel ot my piece was close to the door. So that all the shots went through, and wounded many of my adversaries, the rest ran down into the court below; I charged my piece a Second time with a great quantity of ssugs, and let fly amongst thole who had fled into the yard, which likewise did considerable execution; they now began to fire at me, which I returned as fast as I could load my piece; they again ventured upstairs, and fired several times through the door at me, but none of their shots took place; for, expedling they would do So, I always placed myself out of the way, and I had helped the unfortunate lady to get up the chimney. This engagement continued three hours; for I never fired unless there was a person at the door, or, when I could take aim at one of them in the yard.
At length my fire abated for want of ammunitiob, my whole stock being expended; which my antagonists perceiving, ventured up to my door in a body, and f **ed Several holies through it; finding I did not return their attack, they cut my door to pieces with hatchets, rushed in, and Seized me; they were ail astonished to find only me, as the peasant I had Sent the letter by, (who had returned to give them
infor
\
( 204)
insormation of my lurking place, for th sake of a reward that was offered) had told them, the Nun was certainly with me. I was instantly loaded with heavy irons, and, being chained upon the back of a mule, proceeded towards the town of Fanshall; I was hardly gone a league upon the way, but I was overtaken by a body of people, who came shouting along, which I Soon perceived, proceeded from their joy, at having at last found the unfortunate young lady. My cale was distressful; but I Suffered more for the cruel lot of that unhappy young woman, who was now inevitably destined to end her calamitous life by the most cruel torments. She fainted away several times on the journey; but her mer ciless conduftors never once gave themselves the least trouble to recover her from, her Swoon. We were put into the Same room when we got to Fanshall, and a vessel was immediately prepared to conduct us to Lishon, where we were to be tried by the court of inquisition, and to Suffer at an auto da fe., which was to be Soon exhibited in that city. The first night we were together in the prison: “Unfortunate wretch, (Said she) “as I am, not contented with “having drawn upon luyself the vengeance
“of tke most cruel tribunal in the world,
'...... ............ ‘‘but
>
( 205)
“but I have involved in the Same ruin the
/
“most generous, but unlucky, of men; * if “there is a just and equitable judge above, “and that there is, all nature tells me; “I trust that, before his throne, we shall “receive the Sentence we deserve. A Soul, “like yours, is of a nature too refined to “mix with thole of the common herd of “mankind; death therefore should Seem “a desirable object to you, as it will place “you amongst beings of a Ipecies as “noble and elevated as yourself. As for “my part, the only wish I have now to “make is, that we may have a Speedy “deliverance of our worldly Sufferings. ”
In dilcourles of this Ibrt she pas fed the greatest part of the night; but, towards morning, her tender frame was entirely overcome, and she dropped into a placid steep, which lasted till she was disturbed by one of the infernal instruments of barbarous Superstition, who came in to condikst us to the vessel that was ready to Sail. We were put into the hold of the ship, and had a quick passage to Lishon, by favour of a westerly wind, which by chance lasted for two or three days. As Soon as we arrived, we were removed to a dungeon, which can be likened to nothing with] morej exadfness, than a deep
dry
\
*
/
( }
dry well covered at top. We were loaded with heavier irons, and chained to the ground; and found two fellow sufferers in this dismal abode; one of them was a person, wsho was suspeded of being a Jew, for having Swept the dust inwards, instead of out of his house; the other was a poor lunatic, who had kept a woman, and had. declared the Virgin Mary had appeared to him at night, and told him there was no sin in it, which he never would recant. We had no convenience whatever, and the dungeon never was cleaned; So that we Suffered more from the stench of the place, than from our chains or confinement. Our victuals were flung promiscuoussy amongst ns, wdiich v/e were obliged to pick up from the filth and nastinefs at the bottom of the prison.
Vvshilst we were in this abode, the lunatic died, and his body remained amongst us Some time before it was moved; which occasioned So violent a stench, that it was with pain we were able to breathe the air.
I It was at length, however, carried away by j one of the ministers of cruelty, who, being I struck wdth the figure of the unfortunate
1 young lady, had the unheard of wickedness
and barbarity, to gratify his brutal desires, by force and violence, and in our
i ■
'!
; i
i
• I
• <
♦ I ^
. \
/
r
f. I
^ \
1’!
# '
4
( 207)
presence. The bad efiedts of which she Soon perceived, by the tumours and ulcei's with which he infected her.
Life now became loathibme to me, and I ardently wished for the hour that was to put an end to my misery. We were conduced before the tribunal of the inquisition one by one : Having been So accustotied to live in the dark, my eyes were dazzled when I was brought into the court; immediately that the question was put to me, I accused myself of having assisted the unhappy fair, one in her escape from the Convent in the town of Fanshall in Madeira; the day following was appointed for our marching in procession to the flames, to which we were devoted; we were all clothed in white garments, painted with the flames going upwards, which was an indubitable mark, that we were destined to end our lives by fire. The Jew went first, next followed the beautiful and unfortunate young lady, with a Smile upon her countenance: “Now (Said she, when her irons were struck off) “I am going to a place, where I am Sure “I shall be out of the reach of tyranny “and oppression; at last my calamities are “to end, and I shall Soon enjoy that re“ “wdiich the Almighty always has in store for the innocent and oppres
“fed.
Ik.
*
( 2o8)
“Sed, As to you, (Said she, addressing herself to me) ‘‘ most generous of men, I “die in the full expectation of meeting you “in the blessed mansions of eternity; and “happy are we both, that the time now is “come; let us fall down upon our knees, “and give thanks for this last favour of our Creator to us upon earth, in calling “us from this wicked and unjust world.” She immediately flung herself upon her knees, and I followed her example; having passed a few minutes in this posture, we were interrupted by our executioners, who put us in mind, that it vras time for us to be marching towards the place of execution. I walked between two Friars, who were continually exhorting me to die with Christian patience and ressgnation, and in amity with all the world. They particularly endeavoured to extort from me an acknowledgment of the justice of my sentence, and frequently put a little crucifix to i my mouth to kiss, vrhich one of them cari
ried in his hand. Each convict was followed
by his executioner, and attended in I the Same manner by two priests; we walked
thus for above a mile, amidst an im i rnense concourse of spectators of all Sexes,
ages, and nations, w ho leemed to enjoy and : revel upon our calamity, by their shouts or
! ' "..................joy
t
i I I;
I
II
II '
i
^ I
! i
• 1
i' •
11
i i f •
\
0
( 209)
joy and mirth. I was afterwards told, that the night before the execution, they had ' danced round the fatal pile, upon which we were destined to finish our pains, with the most frantic exultation and delight.
The Jew was consumed long before I reached the fire; but when I came up.
Oh! reader, if thou hast not a heart harder than flint, or adamant itself, thou wilt shed a Sympathetic tear for the cruel death of the unhappy Nun; I saw her beauteous face, the colour of which once would have rivalled the lily and the role, scorched by the flames, which made her an object too horrible to be described; her shrieks pierced the hearts of the very butchers, that had led her to the scaffold; there was not a dry eye to be seen among the numerous Spectators, that were beholding this terrible execution; Ib unaccountable is the human mind, that its very pains are a pleasure to it; being overcome by the flames, her cries grew fainter, and at length entirely ceased, and her whole frame was Soon after reduced to ashes.
It was next my turn to undergo the Same unhappy fate. Near the place where I stood, I observed a' large body of men, whom; from their dress and complexion, it was no difficult matter to tell, were eng lifli Sailors., II
I
( 210)
It came into my mind more than once, if I could but penetrate the file of mus queteers that guarded us, there was a pos sibility of my making my escape amongst that brave and eenerous Set of men. I had, however, deferred it too long, the fire was now preparing for me, and the executioner was pulling off my upper garment, when the Sailors pressed in So closely upon the guard, that they broke the rank, which naturally occasioned Some confusion. This I thought was a critical moment; 1 therefore gave a Sudden Spring, and mixed with the Sailors: “Save a poor countryman, “my boys (Said I) wshom these blood“ “are going to butcher.” They all immediately gave a shout, and pushed me into the midst of them: “Ay, my “boy, we’h stand by you, by G - - d; ” upon which they gave another shout, and cleared a way instantly with their cudgels through the populace. One of them stripped off his jacket, hat, and wig, and put it upon me. They still continued advancing towards the vvharf, with an intention of putting me on shipboard;; when we came near that place, we perceived it occupied by a strong guard, which the officer, attending the execution, had ordered there, to prevent my escaping
that
. ( II y
«
that way. “Well, my boy, (Said one ox them) “never fear, v/e’il Save you yet; “or we’ll all perish with you. What!
Shall it be Said that an Englishman was “burnt by the inquisition, when a gang, ‘‘ of stout English tars were in hearing? “No, no, my lad, that shall never be “neither. No; Jack Spaniard and For -- “tugey is not So cunning, but an honest “tar knows how to deal with him too.”
Vfe went to a part of the town where the Seamen chiefiy dwelled, and got into a. Small house, from whence I pasted over the roofs of Several others to a little Sort of a hayloft, to which I was directed by one of my generous countrymen. They proposed. taking me away in the night, and carrying me on board an English man of war that was lying at anchor. But they little knew the precaution of the inquisition; for guards were immediately placed upon the landing place, and no person Suffered to go off from the shore, who was not examined by the keeper of the prison, in which. I had been confined; all the avenues in the Suburb where I was, were filled with Soldiers, and a diligent Search was made in most of the houses; I lay still in the hayloft, where I had victuals brought me by one of the honest Sailors, by the Same way
I had
(212)
I had gone there. In Some time the guard in the streets was more remiss, but still as strict as ever upon the wharf.
I thought there vasa possibility of my escaping in the dress of a Capuchin fry ar, which I was well qualified to personate, as my beard, during my confinement, had grown to a considerable length. A religious habit of this order was therefore brought me by piecemeal; and, being equipped in my difguile, vi/ith a few piastres, which the bounty of my generous countrymen bad furnished me with, in the i close of the evening I ventured out. I
took the road towards the frontiers of Spain, as it was impossible for me to embark for Great Britain in any of the por i tugueze ports, where my person was very
exactly and particularly deferibed. I tra i veiled two leagues that night, and reposed
myself for three hours in a stnall hut at the ^ end of a vineyard, in which a man was
hired to lay, in order to guard the grapes; but he chose rather to repair to a warmer lodging.
In the morning, having Satisfied the call; of nature by a plentiful meal upon grapes
and Ibme dried bread I had brought in my wallet, I walked fifteen miles without halting; as the Portuguese [are a very Superstitious
I :
I
f
1
( 213)
stitious people, they have a relpedt sorfryars of any order, bordering upon adoration.
I therefore found it no difficult matter to be Supplied with provisions; the women and children, in Some of the villages thro’ which I pasted, fell down upon their knees, and kissed the hem of my garment. I continued my journey with great assiduity; and, having passed undiscovered the guard upon the frontiers of Portugal, T arrived at the port of Cadiz in the kingdom of Spain.
There was a battalion of an Irish regiment, in the Spanish Service, quartered in this city, with many of the Soldiers of which, I engratiated myself, by astliming the style and title of an Hibernian; the Irish are as national as the Scots, and prefer, to all others, people of their own country; which, if it may be called a fault, is certainly the least exceptionable of any human nature is liable to; for my own part, I confess, I lee little difference between that and a virtue, which by the an tients was esteemed the most glorious of any; what I mean, is patiotism, the name of which is only now remaining. For what is love of our country, but a love to our countrymen? It can never be conceived to be a mere attachment to the local, or
she Soil; if therefore patriotism is an extraordinary
vt
( 214)
ordinary love to our countrymen, and that love, under the name of patriotism, is allowed to be a virtue; Surely the national partiality of the Scots and Irish, which borders upon patriotism, is So far from being 'blameable, that it is praiseworthy; and, instead of being made a crime, or exception, to people of those countries, is to be valued and praised. The person that has the least of it in his frame and composition, fs the mere Englishman.
John Bull, with many good qualities, cares very little about the fate of his own immediate countrymen, with whom he Sympathises in nothing, but his hatred of all foreigners, particularly the Scotchman; whose good qualities he turns into ridicule,
I and despises for what is afiuredly a good
part of his character, viz. an attachment to i people of his own part of the united kingdom.

I
I Amongst the Soldiers of the Irish regi
I td O
I ment that was quartered at Cadiz, there
I was a native of the Caledonian hills, that
^ had escaped out of priibn in the year fortyfive,
which had been sh fatal to So many
I mistaken people, who; though they were
certainly wrong in their notions, yet had ibme merit in the zeal and courage, with
II which they purshed the erroneous princi
LI pies
! '■ i »
t
* ’
■ f *
'« ■
h •
ll
s
0
( 215)
pies they had been educated in. Many persons, of my name, had engaged in the Same wrong and desperate cause, and particularly one of my cousins, in whose company the Scots Soldier I allude to, had served. He was a good deal bantered by his comrades for his obstinacy; a strong instance of which they gave in the following story:
When he first came to Spain from Scotland, he happened to be at dinner one day where Some asparagus was Served up, which he had never Seen before; being the greatest stranger in the company, he was the first helped to them; but his pride was Ib great, that he would not confess he had never leen any before, and ask the manner of eating them; but he began by biting them at the wrong end; at which those who were present burst out a laughing, and ral ly’d him a good deal upon his ignorance of eatables. The scotsman denied, that his manner of eating them proceeded from ignorance; but affirmed, it was through choice that he eat the hard end; and that his ignorance might never be ridiculed for the future, had the insuperable obstinacy of eating asparagus ever after in the Same manner.
When
4
( 2i6)
When I told this Soldier, that I was of the family of the Grants in Argylshire, he. ' conceived a very great friendship for me,
, and made me an offer of his purse, which,
it may be easily imagined, was not too plentifully stored.
Orders, it Seems, had been Sent from the Inquisition at i^ishon to that at Cadiz, to stop me, in case I should attempt to embark for Great Britain at that port; a description of my person was likewise published, and a very great reward offered for apprehending me; in the drels that I was, it was therefore imposhble to agree with any English Captain for my passage, as the bufiness a Capuchin friar had in England, would appear rather extraordinary, and I was afraid to discover myself, even to an Englishman, r the Scots Soldier, as he might be tempted, by the confider able shm offered, to discover me to the officers of the inquisition.
There was a vessel Soon to go from Cadiz to the coasts of Guinea upom the staving trade, and, as Soon as the cargo was complete, to proceed to Buyenos Aires; this I learned from one of the mariners that had given me Some marks of his liberality. It occurred to me, there was a possibility of getting to Jamaica by way of
Buyenos
( 217 }
Buyenos Aires, it was in truth a little round about; but still a long voyage was a more desirable thing, than a lodging in a dungeon of the Inquisition. With an intention of being appointed chaplain to the vessel, I applied to my friend the scotsman, who, being upon a good footing with his sergeant, and his sergeant being a favourite of the second lieutenant’s, I was by him recommended to the Surgeon of the vessel, who was a Frenchman: The French Surgeon introduced me to the Captain, who was named John Thomas Nunez Navarro: He told me, they had little occasion for a chaplain on board a staving ship; but if I choie to officiate in that capacity for my commons, and take the chance of the be nefadlions of the officers and mariners, I was very much at liberty to embark with them. I immediately accepted of the proposal, and very Ibon after, we let Sail from Cadiz for the western coasts of Africa. Our vessel was called the Nostra Signora Beneditta di Compostello; she was freighted with pen knives, glass baubles, rattles, and fugar plumbs; one would have thought we had been going to a country peopled only with children.
The celebrated Monsieur de Secondat, Baron montesquiou, very justly observes,
L bei

1
I
I
(218)
because the Europeans have conquered a merica, they make staves ot the people of Africa; but as otherwise Sugar would be dear, and as the Negroes are black, and ' have flat noles, and prefer a glals necklace
to things of greater value, it is proper they should be kept in a state of Servitude. A Colonel, who had read the abovementioned passage in the Spirit of laws, very Sagaciousty remarked, that montesquiou’s reasoning was puerile; upon which I could not forbear telling him the observation of an Irish Bishop to Swift, when he ashed his opinion of gulliver’s Travels; why. Said the reverend father in God, I cannot comprehend the reason that people should make so great a work about that book; for my part, I think it is a heap of impro i bable lies. John Thomas Nunez Navarro
i. had not quite so much stateliness as the generality of his countrymen; his natural phlegm was tempered by the gay and volatile disposition of monsieur De la Font the French Surgeon; who, though he had been driven out of his own country by the tyranny and oppression of the state, yet still preserved the highest opinion of arbitrary government; he would leriousty ash me, whether I thought the liberty, that prevail i ' CD in the British dominions which he
;! termed
*
\
I
1
\ •
h '
t
I
S 219)
termed licentiousness, was as conducive ta the happiness and well-being of Society, as the absolute Sway of a monarch? Upon my telling him, that the English were of a contrary way of thinking; he leemed greatly Surprised, and shrugged up his shoulders with an air of pity and contempt. If anything extraordinary was mentioned, either in nature or art, he always affirmed very roundly, he had Seen Ibmething still more worthy of admiration in France.
The conversation one day happened to turn upon the populousness of the different cities in Europe; John Thomas Nunez Navarro allowed, that London was larger, or more extensive than Madrid; but thougrht the latter contained at least an equal number of inhabitants; being ashed, how many souls London was generally reckoned to contain upon a medium computation?
I told them, between eight hundred thou ■ and a million; but rather nearer the latter, when the Parliament, and courts of Justice were sitting; and pray Monsieur De la Font, Said Navarro, how many people of all ages and Sexes may there be in Paris? A million or two. Said he; nothing could be more vague, or like a Frenchman; had he Said, twenty millions, the falssiqod would have been glaring, and ap
L 2, parent’
y
1 ■
<
1 :
1
I ■
t.
t '
j
^ ( 220)
i
I parent to every stander by; but his manner
of giving the Superiority to his own country, was So indeterminate, that it is not possible to charadlerise a Frenchman
I more strongly.
; A thins; that struck this o entleman in a
1 O O
I very extraordinary manner was, the custom
the English have of travelling abroad for entertainment or instrudtion farther than Paris: “When a man has Seen Paris, (he “Said) he has no occasion to go any far“ “does not that city contain every' “thing in its greatest perfetstion? What is “art capable of producing comparable to “the Tuilleries or Palace royalthe gal“ “of Luxembourg Surpasses anything “in Italy; and the Scene is assuredly the “finest river in Europe. As to Music, the
'‘‘ operas of Lully and Rameau are beyond
“any ever composed by Pergolefi, CCX hi, “Perez, Gallupi, Jomelli, or the most ce
^ “Italian masters ^ Poushn, as a
“painter, is allowed by the impartial, and “all Europe, to excel Rubens, Michael “Angelo, - Raphael, the carach’s, and ‘‘ the whole tribe of the Italian Schools. “You pretend in England to have great natural philosophers; you extol Newton “to the fkics, for having made a few paltry discoveries, which he had never
found
#
( 221)
“found out, had he not made a tour to “Paris and versailles; but do you think “he is worthy to wipe the dirt, even off “of I’abbe de nollet’s shoes? He is not “to be named in the same breath with “descartes; if Plutarch was to write the “the lives of those two men, namely,
‘‘ Newton and Monsieur de Nollet, he ' “would undoubtedly give the preference to “the latter. Monsieur de Nollet is far “newton’s Superior, as a mathematician “and a natural philosopher; and to Say any more of Newton, is what no English“ “ever pr^ended to do; on the other “hand, the great de Nollet is a Poet; he “wrote a copy of verses in praise of Ma“ “de Pompadour, which was much “esteemed, and the whole court Said ma“ “handsome things in commendation “of his poetical talents; Monsieur de “Nollet is likewise a man of pleasure and “gallantry; he knows how to Say a thou“ “Soft things to the ladies, and, in “his younger days, was celebrated for be“ “a man of intrigue. Now, turn your “eyes upon Newton; I never heard at “Paris that he ever made a distich in his “v>ihole life; what Signifies his colours and “gravitation, if the muses frown upon “him; and the poor, bashful creature did
L 3 “not
I
t
i
r
{ 222)
not know how to accost a lady; nay, I
I “am confidently told, he never once
“transgreffed the most rigid laws of cha “stity, though he lived to a very great “age? Monlieur de Nollet then was as great a p.hiiosopher; and, in that parti“ “at least newton’s equal. mon fieur de Nollet is a very pretty poet, “Newton never wrote a verse, de Nollet “had a genteel address, and danced a mi“ “in the greatest perfection;; “did not know how to make a bow, or ‘‘ come into a room; therefore, upon the “whole, the French philolbpher, though “with respedt to those of his own nation, “is to be regarded in a Subordinate, lecon “clary capacity; is far Superior to the English philosopher, or] that ofany oath “people in Europe.”
Captain John Thomas Nunez Navarro, being nettled at the insolence and Self sufficiency of the Frenchman, after having taken, with a good deal of deliberation, the pinch of rappee snuff he had between his fingers, began as follows : “My dear “Friend, Don de la Font, I am Sorry to “find, that you have let your vanity So far “get the better of your understanding, as “to assert So many falsities, inconsistences, “and contradidions as you have been
guilty
0
4
{ 223)
“guilty of.” The Frenchman began to stare at the word vanity; and when John Thomas Nunez Navarro came to fdfities., he put on his hat: “Your great philosopher, (continued Navarro) “who you Say is not “to be named in the Same breath with “Newton, was only a msad man at liberty; “his head was filled with vortexes and “whirlpools, which existed no where but in his own crazed imagination; he had “vivacity and sprightliness, which you, “Frenchmen, esteem above the more So“ “and durable qualifications; his rea“ “were hypothetical, and his con“ “ill drawn, and generally Salle, “even Supposing his premises had been “Sound; but when you presume sto com“ “your little raree show man to Don “Cavaliero Newton, my pity for your “ignorance is changed into contempt.” The Frenchman had been whistling part of an air in one of lully^s opera’s, during the latter part of navarro’s Speech; but, as Soon as he uttered the word contempt,, he jumped up. Seized one of the cabin stools, with which he stood in a threatening posture; Navarro got up from his Seat without any hurry, and walking to stis bureau, unlocked it, and took out a pistol; the contrast between the vivacity of tstefrench
L 4 man,
0
✓
( 224)
man, and the spaniard’s coolnejfs, was very striking; 1 immediately placed myself between the enraged De la Font and the phlegmatic Spaniard, and, by Some entreaty, prevailed upon the former to go up upon deck; but Navarro still kept his pistol in his hand; which, upon the approach of dinner, he put back into the place from whence he had taken it.
t
I!
I
i
I
k
I
I
C H A P. XV
1
I
j
I Had now time to refiedl; upon my past follies and extravagancies, and the fatal consequences that had followed them; I il looked upon the follies and vices of man |i kind with a dilpashonate eye; and when I
considered the esteem a regular and virtuous course of life procures, even amongst I the common herd of men, 1 was astonish
ll ed, that people of mature reafbn, did not
purshe it, if it was only from arr interested motive, exclusive of its own beauty and excellence. The image of the virtuous and I injured Lucinda frequently returned to my
mind, and the length of time I had been
I absent from her, the various Icencs of life; i; I had
C
i‘‘
; 1
dj,
dlh
I '■ (
\
( 225)
I had gone through, did not in the least diminish that primitive flame, which her good qualities had kindled in my breast. I resolved within mysels, if ever fortune should put me in possession of the estate that had descended to me by my brother’s death, I would endeavour to repair the injury I had done that most excellent of women, by making her my own for ever. This thought of a happiness, though indeed, in my present Situation, Somewhat distant, yet did not fail, whenever it occurred, to afford me the most sensible pleasure.
There is a story very well known, of a spaniard’s playing a game at Chess, which had been first begun by his great grandfather, who had left it to his Son to continue; but neither the lives of either the Son, or grandson, were long enough to end it. There is likewise an account, either in Gil Bias, or Don Quixote, I do not recollect which, and I am too lazy just at this time to turn over those novels to come to a certainty; there is an account, I Say, of a spaniard’s being interrupted in the middle of a story, and called away by Some bufi ness, staying Seven years in Mexico, returning to Spain, and happening to fall into the Same company where the thread of
his narration had been broken, t^iimed it
L 5 jush
•.
I
t N
I 0
I
i
I
( 226)
just at the place he lest off, and finished it two days after the difference had arisen between Captain John Thomas Nunez Navarro, and Monsieur de la Font, the French Surgeon, about the precedency of the Abbe de Nollet, the French philofophea, to our countryman. Sir isaac Newton. The Spaniard, after he had eat a hearty breakfast upon onions, bacalajo, and dried bread, continued as follows:
“All Europe has acknowledged that hu man nature is more obliged to Don Cava“ “Newton, than to allthe philosophers that lived before him; but asto yoirr Nollet, I never heard of his being other, “than a Superficul ledlurer upon experi “mental philofopny; and his principal ex“ “consssts in showing the experi “ments, which Don Cavaliero Newton was ‘‘ the first that made. I never heard that “dancing, or making bows, was any northeast“ “part of a philosoper’s character or that writing sonnets, or love verles, “enabletl a man to calculate with tlae “greater exadlness; those are qualities that ‘‘ may engage the attention of a French“ “; but people, who are intent upon “things of a more Serious nature, take my word for it, my friend Don de la Font, “they lodk above Such trifles. If the great “Don Cavaliero Newton had any com
“pette,
t i
( 227)
^ petitor, it was Leibnitz the German, who “has disputed with him the honour of in“ “fluxions, or wshat you call the “injiniment Petits i but even allowing the “glory of that invention to the German “philosopher; yet newton’s glory, in the “discovery of the Several primitive consti “tuent colours that form a ray of light, “by means of the prism, will remain un “Sullied to the latest posterity. The care “and ingenuity of his experiments, the “candour and Icrupulous regard to truth, “with which he relates them, are very re“ “and at the Same time that we “admire the Sagacity of the philolbpher, “we cannot but esteem and love the man. “His continency. So far from being a reproach to him, is an honour, and will “be looked upon as Such by all mankind, “except those libertines, who have thrown “off, even the appearance of decency.
“And as to your famous river Scene, “that you boast So much of, there is Icarce “ly water enough for our longboat to go “up it as far as your renowned city of Pa“ “; which, we must allow, is a large “city; but not comparable to London in “extent, convenience, or oppulence; but “you make me pity you exceedingly, when
‘‘ you talk of your famous palace of Ver........ ........
f
\
%
i
I
\
i.
( 228)
I “Sailles, which is extolled by all the French
“writers, as Superior to everything it is “possible to imagine or conceive. My j dear friend, Don de la Font, believe me,
upon the faith of a Spaniard, it would ‘‘ not make one wing of the Escurial;
Some parts of the gardens, I am told, are “fine; but then you now and then come “to a dog hole, which riiakes one hate and “despile the whole.
“You astonish me, when you put your music upon an equality with that of the “Italians. A very ingenious, though whim“ “author, who once wrote a pam“ “upon the French music, begins “thus: There was once a report in “Germany, that a child was born with a I “golden tooth, all the literati exhausted
! “their fund of knowledge in learned re
j “starches and disquifitions about the caust
“and realbn of this very extraordinary ■ “phenomenon; at last one, who was more Sagacious than the rest, thought, in the I ** first place, it was necessary to have the
fact astertained; but, upon strid enqui i “ry, it came out, that the whole was a
gross imposition. Now, Says the author I “I allude to, it will be necessary, before I
“treat of French music, to be Sure they have any music at all. .The English,
I " 4t (Iq
1
1
(
i
»
I
1
i ^
( 229)
“do not value themselves a great deal up“ “their music;; they have a corn“ “who is far Superior to any France “ever produced, and that is the celebrated “Handel, who was, undoubtedly, thegreat “est harmonist of the time in which he “lived; his melody is Sometimes trivial “and fiat, and his taste inferior to that of “of 'the Italians, which is not surpris“ “as he is So voluminous an author; “he put down every thought that came “into his head; and I believe never in his life blotted out a bar; his oratories are “incomparably Sublime, and to be equal“ “by few things in the Italian music“
“as to your music, if you have any, “it is a continual mewling; you have no “idea of the true adagio, allegro, or pre“ “; ‘the only way that you distinguish “them is, by die rapidity of the Succeshon “of notes, which, in an adagio, may fuc ^ “ceed one another with great celerity; “when the French music wants to go fast, “it has been compared, with a good deal “of propriety, to the galloping of a cow. “Your opera’s are execrable, without ex“ “or meaning, in a drawling, plain“ “strain, totally devoid of elegance or “taste.
“I must
I '
f '
)
( 230)
“I must confess, that I think all open,, “an absurd representation; the poem
i “is generally ridiculous, which consists
“of an ancient story, burlesqued by the “introduction of a love adventure, without “plot, or variety. Is it not ridiculous to : “hear a person in affliction singing the
“cause of his misfortunes, and a hero mor“ “wounded, making his will to the “lost notes of a German flute? The ap“ “of a river is very natural, to be; “Sure; and the arrival of a God from a“
“to make an insipid, dull common“ “Speech, or to ling a Song, is an “entertainment, the beauty of which I northeast“ “was struck with.
“As to your Painters, there are Some “fev7, that have a great share of merit; “and, in that particular, you certainly ex“ “the English, who have never had one “of any eminence at all; the Spaniards, “however, are equal to you in this parti“ “and the Italians far, very far your
Superiors. You are certainly a very Su“ “people; and the chief merit “you have, is in knowing how to live, “or make life pass agreeably away; in “that you excel all other people, and “know how to amuse yourselves, and en“ “others with trifles, better than any
“nation under the Sun.’! The
_ — * -- -- - ^ f •
I
I
I
I
I
1
I
I
I
1
( 231)
The reader may poshbly be Surpriled at lb general a knowledge, in a man of navarro’s station in life; he was originally intended by his parents for a priest, and had been very well educated in a jesuit’s college; but when he came to years of discretion, had objected to their choice, and taken to a seafaring life.
De la Font Scarcely knew how.to relish this Ipeech, better than he had done the former; but as he was assured, that Captain John Thomas Nunez Navarro was armeei against his assaults, he thought it better to overlook the contempt, with which he treated his nation, than to resent it at present. His choler, however, quickly sub lided, and he was Soon after as much navarro’s friend as ever he had been in his life.
The Captain and Surgeon had frequent bickerings, relating to the Superiority of the French nation over every other in the world; in which I always jdned the former, when an occasion offered, in which there was no danger of my real principles being discovered; for I was under a necessity of using as much caution on board this vessel, as if I had been on shore, either in Spain or Portugal. The terror of the inquisitionis So great, that a Spaniard or Portuguese
#
C 232)
tuguese trembles at the very name of it; if therefore any of the crew had had a Sulpicion of my being a Protestant under the habit of a Friar, they would have been obliged, under the Severest penalty, to Secure me in irons during the voyage, and give me up to the inquisition upon their return home. I was forced very frequently, in order to carry on the deceit the better, to coincide with both John Thomas Nunez Navarro, and De la Font, in their notions relating to political matters, in which they both agreed.
The English constitution, and all republican constitutions, were stigmatised by these friends to arbitrary government, with the epithets of absurd, licentious, and derogatory from the Sovereign and divine power of kings, who, they both insisted, should be regarded by mankind, and treated as ' beings approaching the Godhead. They both affirmed, that the power of a free, or republican state, never could last, or even arrive to any degree of eminence, in a civilised and enlightened age. When I ' hinted to them, that a Republic had conquered the world, and at a time when the arts and Sciences were in their greatest per fedfion; they still insisted, that her whole glory was owing to the didatorship, which,
for
■ •
I
/
( 233)
for the time it lasted, was the most despotic of all commands; and the Romans were So Sensible of the advantages of arbitrary power, that, whenever the sense of honour and glory used to stag amongst the people, or when the Republic was in any imminent danger, they always fixed upon slime man of Superior merit and bravery, whom they invested with an unlimited dictatorial power; though it would have been easy to have taken off the argument, and proved to a demonstration, that delegation of the Supreme power to be consistent with liberty; yet I thought it more advisable and expedient, in my present circumstances, to acquielce irx vshat those two very deep politicians advanced relating to civil Institutions.
Whilst we amused ourselves with ipecu lations of this Sort, we made the coast of Guinea; where, after many fruitless endeavours to traffic with the natives of the country, and having lost above half our crew by fickness, we were obliged to ule stratagem, in order to compass our intentions : We had two men on board, who understood the languages of those nations, and could Speak it with a good deal of fluency; one of which was dispatched up the country, to a very fierce and warlike nation, with the
mate,
#
^ r
( 234)
mate, and two others of the ship’s crew; the other, accompanied by De la Font and myself, were ordered to to visita numerous people that bordered upon the Sormer. In our way up the river, we were Sollowed by crocodiles, and in our first night’s encampment upon the shore, were attacked by three tigers, which we Slew.
I will give the courteous reader three times to guess the motive of our em bashes to these two African powers, and! will lay odds he will not Sail upon the right one; it was to propagate the religion of J, e sus Christ, perhaps; No, Madam, you are wrong? It was, very likely, to procure provisions, of which you possibly might be in
i great want? No, nor for that purpose neither
; that is the Second guess. Very possibly you might carry with you Some of your glass baubles and sugar plumbs to traffic with the Negroes You are out in that guess likewise: If you are then determined to know our reason for going, it was with the humane, benevolent, charitable Christian design ot fomenting, exciting, and railing a a dispute between those two nations, and endeavouring to cause a war between them, that we might purchase, at a cheap rate,, the captives that they should make in battle.
When
1
I <
i.
I ■
'; ✓
w
{;
^ i ■
C 235)
When we arrived at the abode of the Sovereign of the people where we were going, we Saw this mighty prince (who was a much greater man than either of the Cherokees) sitting upon a wooden bench under a callibash tree. He had just dined, and a herald proclaimed aloud three times, “That now all the people of the earth “were at liberty to go to dinner.” Wc prostrated ourselves before him, and, when he turned round, we kissed (not his face, as we do that of an English lady; nor his hand, as' we do that of an European king; nor his toe, as we do that of his holiness the pope at Rome) but his heel, which he lifted iip to us, for that purpose, with a great deal of state and dignity. We pre stnted his majesty with a glass fmelling bottle, a pair of earrings, and a penknife, value fourpence three farthings sterling, upon the nearest calculation I could make.
The African was so well pleased with our generous and valuable donations, that he offered us Several of his daughters in marriage; from which honour I excused myself by the vow of celibacy I was supposed to have made; but our interpreter, and De la Font, were each married to three of the princesses of the blood that evening.
We
I
( 236)
We now tried every art in our power, and used every method our realbn could Suggest, to cause a rupture between the two neighbouring states, in which we were received with So great hospitality and curte sy; we were all honoured with Seats at the king’s table, and had a guard to attend us whenever we thought proper to make ex curtions into the woods, or dangerous places. Finding that our emissaries at the court of the neighbouring state had not hitherto Succeeded So well as to engage them to commit any a61; s of hostility; and that we could not persuade our Ibvereign, by all the rhetoric we were masters of, to break the treaty he had entered into with his neighbours; one evening, when their Tartarian brides were fast asseep, De la Font, and the interpreter stole from their beds, repaired with Ipeed to a large field of plantains and bananas, belonging to the Subjects of thejadjoining state; in which they committed the most terrible devastation, by cutting down the plants with their cutlasses, and treading them under their feet; when they had done as much mischief as they possibly could in So short a Space of time, they returned to their consorts unsuspeded. The waste they had committed, was Sufficient to alarm their neighbours, who prepared
o
( m)
#
pared to revenge the injury they had received, by open war.
Our ship mates, as it is easy to conceive, took advantage of this insult, to Spirit on the Africans, amongst whom they had been received and entertained with the utmost kindness and civility. They Set many engines to work, to add to their resent ment, which was already railed but to too high a pitch : There was a formal declaration of war on both Sides, and each nation made the greatest preparations for distressing its enemy, to the utmost of its power. They invaded our territory with great wrath, and ravaged. Sacked, and burnt everything before them. With havoc and desolation.
De la Font was married to one of the greatest heroines of the nation in which she lived; this gentlewoman, one morning before it was light, hearing the noise of arms, and the Ibund of the conck shell, which was the signal for engaging, jumped out of bed. Swam across the river, mixed with the most furious combatants, eat the shoulder of a man she had stain in battle, and returned to the arms of her French husband All the horrors and calamities of war now raged amongst these nations, whole repose and pacific dispositions our European policy had disturbed, in order to serve our
mer
#
// ( 23s)
mercenary and interested designs;; at the expense of humanity, gratitude, ge i nerofity, and every poble and elevated Sen
I timent, that ssiould warm the heart of a
j hsing, raised above all the other parts of
- the animal creation, by the Superior and I noble gist of reason.
1 The war was carried on with the utmost
j rancour on both fides, but with various
j fortune. Sometimes we made many pri
L Soners, and, more frequently, we were 0-
i vercome by our enemy, who, though in!
! inferior in number, yet were stipe
I rior to us by their prowess, the use of
i arms, and military Skill!
! purposes of our excursion from the
! ship, being fully answered by many pri
I Soners made, and consequently the quantity
of staves that were offered us at a cheap 1 rate, we now made preparations to return
!; to our ship; the captain of which, Don
I John Thomas Nunez Navarro, waited for
1 us with the most longing expectation. We
I could not Sufficiently thank the African
I for his hospitality, and generous re;
; of us.
1 De la font’s wives were bathed in tears,
* upon the news of our departure being declared
to them; they infilled upon load i ing the boat we were about to return in,
I with
1 •
t
t
II

■t
■J
i • •
V
( 239)
with all sorts of African rarities. And the prince bad conceived So great an affection for us, that he resolved to accompany us down the river to the ship, with his six daughters, that were married to the Interpreter, and monsieur de la Font; we thanked him for his kind and affedlionate intentions; and entreated him to Spare us the anxiety of parting with So dear and generous friends, which would add to our grief, by putting them to the inconvenience of a long and disagreeable journey back, through a barren and inhospitable country; which, it would not have been in our power to have passed, unless we had come in our boats.
As this African prince was a very polite and well-bred sort of a monarch, the more we endeavoured to prevent his waiting upon us to the ship, the more eager and desirous he Seemed of going; accordingly he followed us with many rich and valuable presents, which he brought to lay at John Thomas Nunez navarro’s feet, whom he was told was, and regarded as an Ambassador extraordinary, and little inferior > to the king of Spain; when we all arrived upon the lea coast, monsieur de la Font went on board, to apprile Navarro of the honour that was intended him by the Sovereign
#
t
I
»
t
f
( 240)
! vereign of the nation to which he had been
o ^ ^
I Sent, to endeavour to excite it to war. The
ship was decorated in the best manner the Spaniard was able; his streamers were waving in the wind, and the warlike sounds of drums and trumpets, contributed to raise in the prince a Sort of love and reverence for the Sacred character of our fidtitious Ambassador extraordinary.
The Oaves we had purchased, were first embarked, who were three hundred in number, and had been purchased at a very mo derate rate. The Subjects of our friend,
I that been Sold us by his adversary, were
I first Sent on board, and focnred in the hold
of the ship, to prevent their being Seen, or i discovered by their ancient master, which
would have been a disagreeable, if not a 1 dangerous circumstance. An elegant rei
past was prepared for the entertainment of
I the prince, and six princesses, to which
'they all stated themselves with great majesty,
and Seemed not in the least to dissike the Spanish cookery. Every time his majesty drank to Navarro, a whole round of the ship’s artillery was fired. Whilst the destrt was strved up, which consisted of dried European fruits; as I was placed next the cabin window, I could see the water much plainer than any of the other
peri

, /
( 241)
persons at table, I was' astonished when I looked at the Sea, to find that the ship was under way; “What can be the meaning of this. Said I, Don John Thomas Nunez “Navarro? I protest I think the ship is sailing” ” “Silent (interruptednavarro) un. “der pain of the Severest punishment; I “would not have his majesty’s appetite for “the raisons and dried figs Spoiled, upon “any consideration; but he is a stout, ro“ “well made fellow, and will do ex cellent service to his Catholic majesty,
“the king of Spain, and the Indies, in the “filver mines.” When the African prince, and his six daughters, had Satiated them selves with European fruits, and got half' ' over with Sweet wines, they expressed an inclination of returning to the shore, and walked up upon deck. The prince did. not immediately cast his eye towards the shore, but was told of our being under Sail by one of the princesses. He at first imagined the Captain intended to divert him with a sail, and return towards the land in the evening; but when the evening came. Heavens! What were the feelings of this unhappy, deluded mortal!
He raged, and foamed at the mouth like a frantic Bedlamite, tore his short black hair, threw himself upon the ground, cursed the
M hour
0
f
( 242)
hour of his birth, and would have thrown himself into the Sea, had we not prevented him; he accused all mankind of perfidious ness, ahd cried out in his despair, that he was betrayed, and Sold by his own children; who, alas! were all betrayed, as well as himself, and were now doomed to pass the remainder of their days in a state of fiavery at Buyenos Aires.
Our vessel was freighted with three hundred and fifty staves, which were bought, as I have before observed, upon very moderate terms. Our voyage to Buyenos Aires was very short, and we had a quick Sale for our cargo.
The African prince fell to the lot of a Spanish shopkeeper, and his six daughters were Sold to the governor’s lady. Signora Donna Clementina Guanna., dubara., y figue era.^ y Mafearenes, y lampourdosy y Souza who was lately arrived at Buyenos Aires from Spain. The yjfernando dh
haray y Figueoray y mafearenesy y lampour d.0sy y souzcy had continued in the govern' ' of Buyenos Aires ever Since Candid,
'madmoiselle Cunegund, and the faithful Cacambo, had been there; as he was but young at the time Candid was in his government, his whishers. Since then, had
gjown very considerably, and he had got a
trick
1.
/
O
!
( 243)
trick of continually stroking them with hi forefinger and thumb; particularly when he was conversing with any peribn about business, and whilst he Was hearkening to what was Said to him; it was remarkable, that. Since his marriage, he had left off the contemptuous Sneer with which he used to treat everybody about him; his wife, Signora Donna Clementina Guanna, d.hara., y Figueora^ y Mafcerenes., y Lampourdos., y souza.f had been contracted, and married without her knowledge, or consent; her mother was an Irish lady, very nearly related to Mr Wall, minister in the foreign Department to the king of Spain; it was. her father that had made the match, and shipped her off to Buyenos Aires, contary to her inclination; for which reason she detested the very name of a Spaniard, and was as partial to all peribns born in the British dominions, as her antipathy was fettled to the natives of Spain; looking upon the former as half her countrymen: Her figure was extremely engaging; she was a brown woman, with all the advantages peculiar to persons of that colour, together with everything that is admirable, in fair people; her large black eyes were naturally exceedingly lively; but since her arrival at Buyenos Aires, she had contradled.
M 2 a fixed
I
i
I
: i
j ( 244)
I a fixed melancholy, which, in Some measure,
Sullied their lustre. Her mouth, which was never opened but to utter the most
II brilliant thoughts, was extremely Small,
Ij and adorned with ivory teeth, whiter than
i alablaster itself. Her stature was above the
t
: middle Size, erect and majestical; but, at
I the Same time, she had an air of east and
i nobility, hat convinced every one that beheld
her, she wasiprung from noble loins. Her hands and feet, finished by the graces, still added to the favourable prepos session, every beholder must immediately have conceived in her favour. All her actions, every word she Spoke, were accompanied by an engaging air, which it is more easy to imagine, than express. She had no occasion, in order to please those she conversed with, for that affected petulance, which is always displayed at the expense of reason, good lenie, and propriety; neither did she life high*flown metaphors, or forced expressions; her conversation was lively, without being the least Satirical; she was prudent, even to dissimulation, she expressed herself with east and propriety; but never used to talk of herstlf, or her own accomplishments. Though she could Speak French, English, and Italian, equally well, she could play anything upon the harpsichord,

»
#
♦
( 245)
chord, even the most difficult ibnata’s^ at sight. She played likewise upon the musical glasses So well, that it Surpassed description, and the power of imagination; she was indeed the first inventor of that instrument; Shuman, and all the other performers upon it, are as much inferior to her, as a blind fiddler that plays in the streets, is below Giardini or Pinto; and I really believe,, if a man was upon the rack, and she was to play to him, that he would cease to feel any pain during the continuance of the music.
She danced to perfection; Sung like a Syren; drew incomparably well, and had a very pretty genius for poetry. With So agreeable a person, and So many accomplishments, she was, perhaps, one of the most amiable persons, not only at Buyenos Aires, but in all South America; and I might add North America too, and Europe, Alia, and Africa.
Our cargo was Sold upon very advantageous terms; the Captain, John Thomas Nunez Navarro, and De la Font, cleared at least five hundred percent, by which means they became people of considerable property. De la Font, not relishing the life of a seafaring man, hired a shop in the tpwn of Buyenos Aires, and Set up as phy
M 3 fician.
Si
i
'► i ('
■i;
h *
i
'(, 246)
I fician, shrgeon, and apothecary. He bell came Soon Samous for many principal Open i rations in Surgery; Such as bleeding, tooth i drawing, corn cutting, and excelled chiefly
in curing a dilbrder very common on the I other fide of the line, called hernia’s.
'. People of all ages. Sexes, and denominations
resorted to his shop for relief in this alarming and mortifying dilbrder. a amongst others there repaired there a tall, rawboned, red haired man, named Don Gordinos, whom they treated with the utmost relpedl. I thought the first time I heard him Speak, that he had the accent neither of a native of old Spain, or of any of the Spanish west-indies; one evening, when he came into De la font’s shop, about the time it was dusk, in order to try : on a new invented steel truss, which the
French Surgeon had exhausted his whole I invention in contriving; not So much with
the view of the immediate profit, that would arise to him by curing Don gordi nos’s hernia, which had been deemed incurable by all she most eminent Surgeons, not only of Buyenos Aires and Paraguay, but likewise of Mexico, Chilli, and Peru, to whom his cafe had been transmitted; but to get himself recommended to the fa
O
tour of the governor Don Fernando ddlbaray
y FF
I i *
✓
( 247)
y Figueordy y Mafcarenes.^ y Lampourdos.^ y Souza; for Don Gordinos was his first valet de chamber, a great favourite, and the only man permitted to handle his enormous whishers; which he, the laid Don Gordinos, used to wash and comb every morning. There was one thing very remarkable about this man, which was, whenever he went through a door, either in going out of a room, or coming into one, he used always to walk sideways; I y^iften ashed De la Font the reason of this Singularity; but he never could, or would explain it to me.
Gordinos observing me very often in De la font’s shop, and perceiving there sub fisted a very great intimacy between us, notwithstanding a difference In our opinions relating to political and constitutional matters, desired that we might be made acquainted. De la Font, being a person who piqued himself greatly upon his breeding, told Gordinos, that if he would do him the honour to eat Soup with him the day following, he would take care that father Grant should be of the party. Upon his pronouncing the word Grant, Gordinos jumped back, at least five yards: “What! (Said he) is it possible that I
M 4 “should
0
• «
/
( 248)
/
“Should find in this remote country, far “Siom my native Soil, and, in the habit “of a Capuchin friar, a countryman, and ‘‘ perhaps a relation too.” After a good deal of chit-chat, Don Gordinos took his leave of the Frenchman,, with the promise of attending at dinner the day following, and Sidled away through the door...
The facetious dean of St. patrick’s has left us a motto for the jesuits, very well adapted to that intriguing, and busy order of men. I have often thought, the Same, adage would Suit equally well the inhabitants of that part of Great britain called Scotland; as thole gentlemen are as remarkable as the Society of Jeshs, for find
j ing out understanding, and purshing their
own interest with indefatigable industry, assiduity, and perseverance. The motto I allude to, is a line in Virgil:
I *
1
regio in terris nojlri non plena lahoris?
* This Don Gordinos, prime minister, valet de chamber, and whilker dresser to Don Fernando d.ihara.^y Pigueora., y Mafcarenes.^ y Lampourdos., y Souzny was, by birth, a scotsman, by religion a Roman catholic, by principle anything that Suited or coin!
! with his interest.
i Ac
i
; (
j i
I
I
• •
I
( 249)
According to his promise, domgordinos ' came to De la font’s the day Sollowing. There was a very Sumptuous entertainment prepared for this foreigner, who was treated by all the inhabitants of Buyenos Aires with the utmost deference and respeds, as he was Said, by general report, to have the governor’s ear, and, it was Supposed, was very well paid by that nobleman for the intelligence he used to give him, about other people’s affairs. The governor, it Seems, when a man grew rich, ' or throve in his circumstances, used, upon Some pretence of public emergency, either for the reparation of the fortifications, or the levying of troops, to borrow a considerable Sum of money of him; and, as alecurity, would give him his note for it, payable in six weeks, with interest at the rate off twelve percent, per annum. But it was remarkable, he never had made any payment; either of the interest or principal, and people generally imagined, never intended it; by which just and equitable means he had raised a very large fortune; and as all .the courts of judicature were filled with persons devoted to his interest, and staves to his passions and humour, there was no poshbility of obtaining redress by any legal method; But the greatest hardship
M 5 was,
\
«
( 250)
was, the absolute neceshty there was of complying with his request, whenever he made one; for if the person he applied to, should give him a denial, his ruin was inevitable; for, as I have before Said, the judges being all his creatures, they would condemn him upon the lightest accusation, unsupported by evidence, the least circumstantial proof, and Sometimes even without a presumption or probability; for, according to their method of proceeding, it lay in the breast of the judge, whether he "Would hear the defendant’s evidence, or not; and in the casts I allude to, it was very rare that the party who was thus prosecuted, was allowed the opportunity of making a defence.
Don Gordinos, as I have before hinted, was looked upon as one of the governor’s emissaries, that used to give him information of the peribns who had acquired fortune. This circumstance, I take it for granted, was unknown to my friend De h Font, otherwistit is difficult to conceive, that he would have been So fond of entertaining this gentleman at his houst, for fear of the bad constquences that would unavoidably follow So great an intimacy; but, however. Such is the vanity of the French nation, that it is stsh a matter of
doubt
p
p
C 251)
doubt with me, whether the honour of entertaining Don Fernando dlhara., y figueo ra.f y Mafearenes, y Lampourdos^ y Souza, a whifker dresser, would not lull his prudence and discretion, and make him for get the risk and danger of So hazardous an intercourse.
Navarro, the captain of the guinea man, was likewise of the party, as well as Several other gentlemen of the town of Buyenos Aires. After a plentiful repast the bottle circulated very briskly, which naturally put Navarro, as well as De la Font, off of his guard; the vanity of the latter prompted him to boast a good deal about the riches he had acquired by his Skill and address in betraying the African prince; Navarra ikewife had the imprudence to discoverthe extraordinary profits of his adventure. The Frenchman Said, that, as loon as he had doubled his capital at Buyenos Aires, he would transmit his effects to Bayonne, near which place, in the province of Bearne, he would purchase a Signiory, and live like a gentleman, as he was entitled by his birth, being Sprung from a family that had Sixteen quarterings of nobility, and having two cousm germans, counts in the Convent at Lyons. I could perceive Don Gordinos to listen to these accounts of wealth with
extra
t
< 252)
extraordinary attention; and, by the questions he threw in, Seemed to desire they would dwell upon that subjeds; in order to do which, their vanity and spirits, raised by the generous god, wanted no Ipur or provocative.
As they were both very great politicians, •the conversation at length turned upon government. I knew the Sentiments of these two gentlemen, relating to this sub jedt long ago, and I now hoped, that as I was reinsoiced by a native of Great brh i tain, I should be able to maintain the argu
rnent, with Ibme degree of equality, against i these sticklers for arbitrary power and de; j ipotistn.
LI De la Font first opened:, and talked
;; much of the advantages of a truly moil
narchical power over every other institu i .tion; the promptitude of the executive I power; the union it preserved in a state; I and the felicity the people enjoyed, who had
the wood fortune to live under shch an establishment; ever, in his opinion, admi i'i rable.
'» ' •
[i I allow, laid I, De la Font, interrupting
|| him, that a monarchy, or even a delpotilrn,.
jl; the best government in the world, pro
1 vided you can contrive to place upon the
throne a race of Marcus antoninus’s, or
|1 ... ............... shch
ir " ^ ■
»1 b
!: '
•'! I i
Tb:
■ilv t,
iiiiiil
( i^53)
shch as your Henry the Fourth of franc c, or George the Third of England : despo tism, under Such Men would lose its nature and name; it would be the mildest and most desirable of all governments, and the best calculated to make men happy, and easy in Society; but, pray, gentlemen, please to look into your own histories, as well as into that of every other people in Europe, and you will find for one prince that Sat upon the throne,, who resembled Marcus Antoninus,. Henry the Fourth of France, or George the Third of England, there are fifty;, what do I say? a thousand, that are more like the tyrant Nero, or Bafilides. As the chance, according to experience, and the testimociy of all histories and records, is, at least, fifty to one, according to the common course of things, of having a bad prince upon the throne, against a good one; the preference therefore of a free government, is to he given, undubitably, to an arbitrary, or purely monarchical System. monttff quiou idea of despotism is the most just, the most concise, the most expreshve of any that ever occurred to man; human wit will never be able to go beyond it.
The Iroquois, Says that nervous, and admirable writer, when they want to gather
thf
* - *
• •
: i!!
; il ’ lim
■ » ■ I
'I 1
i! 1254)
ti;
j the fruit, cut down the tree; that is delpo
tishi. Don Gordinos, continued I, will || agree with me in opinion, that a free
constitution, properly policed, is the best calculated to render mankind happy. Vfhy, answered Gordinos, assiiming an air of importance, as if his opinion was to be final and conclusive, I plainly perceive, father Grant, for which I am Sincerely and heartily Sorry, that you still
preserve a tincture of those barbarous and ferocious notions you was educated in;
I but that is your misfortune, and not your
; fault, as it likewise was mjne; but I have
'long since, thank heaven, deracinated those
absurd principles, which are fb inconsistent with reason, justice and religion, and pro dudcive of So many enormities in the places where they are encouraged, and fostered with care, and indulgence. - It is surpri fing, that all the republican countries, which must be lenfible of the Sweets of art bitrary power, by the happiness of thole nations which are subject to it, do not change their constitutions for one that is So much better. I am astonished at this infatuation I which I can explain no otherwise than by the Spirit of faction, party ' and opposition, that has been, for So many
'■ genes

( ^55)
generations, handed down, and cherished in thole anarchial governments.
Though I could by no means agree with Dost Gordinos in his political notions, yet I was under a necessity of giving a nod of approbation for my own Safety; as this gentleman’s disorder obliged him very frequently to visit De la font’s shop,
I had frequent occasions of conversing with him, and by that means contradfed an intimacy. As by his being fettled at So great a distance from his own country, I imagined there must be something very singular in his adventures, I often entreated him to indulge me with a recital of them, in which he promised to gratify me the first time that circumstances would furnish him with an opportunity; therefore one day, after dinner was over at De la font’s, as there were present no other strangers but Gordinos and myself, after making an apology, to the Frenchman for Speaking in a language be did not understand, he begun as follows :
“My real name is Patrick Gordon; I am the younger Son of a clergyman in Aberdeenshire, of a very good family; for I am distantly related to the duke and the carls of my own name: By my mother’s fide
I am likewise nobly descended; for she
'was
i
• «
■?
\
, >
%
'( 2'5^)
was daughter of an earl, whole Son now keeps a leather breeches maker’s shop in the city of Edinburgh : I am likewise cousin gcrman to another Scotch earl, who is a Surgeon in the English navy. Benefices in Scotland, you know, in general, are Small, and his was of the Scantiest Sort; for it was little more than forty pounds a. year. He had eight children; six daughters besides my brother and myself; he educated all his children himself, and discharged that part of his duty with great care and exadlncss. When I was Seventeen years of age, he laid out ten guineas in stocking a farm for me; for I was intended to be a farmer, and get my livelihood by husbandry and agriculture; but being of a rambling turn, I liked better to go abroad, and see the world, than to be fixed to the ipot where I was born. I therefore converted my implements of husbandry, horses, and other stock, into ready money, without my father’s knowledge, which having invested in goods, I took .up the employment of a pedlar. My course was directed southwards, and I passed the Tweed in company with two other of my countrymen that followed the Same way of life. The profits of my
business were Sufficient to keep me comfortably,
( 257)
fortably, but I generally lived upon the public; for whenever I could conveniently knockdown a fowl, or kill a lamb, (which was eassly done with the utmost secresy) I never was at the trouble or expense of buying vidluals. One day, however, when I had killed a young wether, I was discovered by the Servants of a justice of the peace, to whom it belonged. I was immediately handcuffed, and carried before him, for which he forthwith comrhitted me, as it was his own property; for had it belonged to any one elle, a small gratuity, properly given to his clerk, (which his worship would have come in for his share of) would have mitigated the rigour and Severity of the law; but in this cafe an example was necessary, to deter others from invading his property, which he chose to have regarded by all the neighbourhood as Sacred and inviolable.
“After I had been in prison four months,
I was enlarged, upon condition that I would enlist in a marching regiment quartered in that county. It was the beginning of the Spanish war, and there was a great occasson for able-bodied men, both in the sea and land Service. The; life of a Soldier was what I had always been educated in, the aversion and detestation offor which
reason
«
• •
() *
reason I refused to purchase my liberty at the expense of serving as a Soldier. When the proposal was made me, I rejected it; and, in order to prevail upon me, the certainty of ending my life in an ignominious manner, in cafe I did not'comply, was rep relented to me. Upon resseclion, however, and the usual inlisting money of eight guineas being given me, I took the oaths of allegiance and Supremacy to his Britannic majesty. People are surprise: d on their first Seeing me, at the mariner of my coming into or going out of a room, which my present rank in life, would make it improper to me to explain to everybody; but as I have told you I have been a pedlar, your own realbn will naturally Suggest to you, that it is a habit con tra(sted when I carried a pack.
“I got married, as Soon as I was in the army, to a trull, who Soon convinced me I was not the first that had been favoured with her .affections. I was Sent to the hospital, where the matrimonial venom I was infected with, was carried off by the Saliva. As Soon as we were both recovered, we again cohabited, and in the Space of three years and a half had four children: My thievish inclination to pilfer, still continuing with me in the army, I was
often
/
'I
% t
/
\
( 259)
often brought to the halberds, and uled frequently to be caned by the adjutant, who was a man of a Severe and cruel turn. resolved, however, one day or other, to be revenged, in the year 1745 our regiment was ordered from Flanders into Scotland, where it was present at the action of Falkirk; at the beginning of which affair,, as my tyrant of an adjutant was very busy and alert before the line, when we were ordered to advance and fire, in the confusion I took aim at him at the distance of two yards and blew his brains out. Before the battle was over, I left my rank, and deferred to the rebels, who received me with great joy. My wife and children were left to shift for themselves. We marched into the heart of England, as every one knows; and though but a despicable handful of half naked men, put the city of London in So great a consternation, that the memory of it will not be very easily obliterated. After the fate of our army was determined, I followed the fortune of the young chevalier, whom I accompanied during his wandering through the western ifies. We were hid together in the same oven in the isse of Sky, when the crew of the infernal bomb was in search of us; and I went with him over
. she
I ■
%
*
I
( 260)
the whole counties of Sutherland and Cairh^ ness; he, at last, embarked on board a French privateer, in one of the Orkney isses, where he was three days without eating.
“I returned back to the western fide of the Highlands, and embarked in a fisherman’s vessel for Dublin; where I was recommended by an old bigoted lady, (to ingratiate myself with whom, I changed my religion, and embraced the Romish faith) as lackey to the popish priest, who assumed amongst the catholics the title of archbishop of Dublin. I Served this person several months; but perceiving he used to be very particular about the letters he frequently received by the post, I generally turned them inside out, and by that means perused the contents before I delivered them to him; Sometimes indeed an accident would happen of my tearing the paper, as I was endeavouring to turn it back to its proper folding, but then I used to burn the letter I was So unlucky in managing.
“The bishop not receiving Several letters he expected, watched the coming of the postman, and hid himself in his diningroom in a closet, from whence he could see the table upon which he had ordered
me
I
*
^
( 2'61)
itie to place his letters. T went up a usual, and thinking he was gone out, by his not appearing, began to turn the letters istfide out, as Sormerly; he immediately Iprung from his lurking place, and collar’d me; the end of this adventure was,
I was kicked out of the house, but not prosecuted;; he was afraid I should give ^ information to the government of the intercourse he maintained with its enemies; for although his letters were generally written in cypher, yet I had fallen upon one, which let me into the business, in which he was very deeply engaged.
“I again applied to the old gentlewoman, who recommended me to a member of the Irish house of commons. My only employment was that of dressing my master’s wig, and Setting up at night to let him into his lodgings. He dressed very richly, and had a large wardrobe of fine clothes, which I very often wore when I had an inclination to pafs for a gentleman,
I frequently walked in Phoenix Park, in the habit of a man of fashion; unluckily, however, one evening as I was sitting in the front boxes at the playhouse, dressed in one of my master’s gayest suits, playing, with my fnuff box, looking at the ladies through my pockevglass, and giving myself

%
( 262)
self all the airs of a travelled coxcomb, my master came in, and placed himself by my fide. He did not recollect my features immediately, but in the middle of an aft, when a dead Silence reigned in the house, he was convinced the deaths were his own, and worn by his own footman; at which his choler being railed, he interrupted the play by collaring and striking me; as I had not perceived him when he came in, I was thunderstruck, and making the best of my way out of the house, was followed by him along the passage, where he kicked and bruised me most unmercifully; I got, however, out of the house before him, and thinking it imprudent to return home, went immediately to a pawnbroker’s shop, where I raised five guineas upon the Sword I had on. A search it was natural to conceive would be made for me, I therefore left Dublin that evening, and directed my course towards Cork, where I relblved to enter into the company of strolling players, that were exhibiting in that town. My appearance was indeed rasher singular for a pedestrian itinerant; and the entertainment of a hedge alehouse, ill Suited a gentleman dressed in a pompadour Suit, richly embroidered wish gold, wish laced ruffles.
Silk
/
/
'o
o
( 263)
Silk stockings, stone buckles, a bag wig, and hat with a white leather in it.
“I was admitted a member of the company; the Scotch, you know, have never made a figure upon the stage; their natural awkwardncis, and disagreeable harsh pronunciation, dilqualifies them for that employment. My a(5tion was likewise exceedingly dissiked, and I have been told, it resembled very milch the motion of the vanes of a windmill. We lived in the company in a perfect state of nature; Some of the actors vrere married indeed to the adtresses; but the vow they had taken at the altar, was no tie upon these Sons of pleasure and libertinism; we might, with great propriety in this particular, be likened to a herd of cattle, or a stock of sheep. I was again married, not to a female comedian, but to the maid of an alehouse in Cork; who struck me with her beauty, and I espoused her, for the Same reason Sir John Brute married his wife; she became a member of our Society, but was prevented from long exhibiting by the marks she bore of Soon bringing into the world a young comedian.
One evening when I was displaying my theatrical talents in the character of Sir Samlbn in Love for Love, I elpied my old
master
Jr"
I
^ 4*
( 2^4)
s'
ihaster, the member of parliament, amongst the Spectators. As I thought it more than probable he did not recollcct me, I continued to go on with my part; but at the end of the third act a constable laid hold on me, and the audience was obliged to postpone the Sarther hearing and Seeing the representation. The gentleman Swore a robbery against me, and I was committed to gaol to take my trial at the next assizes; but my pregnant wife came one day to See me in prison, and changing dresses with me, I by that means made my escape, and left my consort to get off as she could. I embarked for England with a party of itinerants, who were going to that kingdom upon a party of haymaking;; as I had no particular views, resolved to follow the Same business. What with hay making and harvest work, I Scraped together a pretty round Sum; and in the winter, got a considerable deal more by Supplying the places of chairmen and hackney coachmen, when Sickness or pleastire called any of those gendemen away from their employments; to which occupation I was recommended by my fellow passengers from Cork, and brother hay makers.
1 at length got into Service again, and was, after Some dine, introduced to the Society ’
▲
9
%
I
( 265)
mt
ciety of Irish fortune hunters; my abode in Ireland having furnished me with a Sufficient title to assume the character of an Irishman. The rules by which the Society was governed were, First, That every member should contribute five guineas annually towards the Support of the Institution; Secondly, Not to be eqnipped for adventures till he had been a member two years; Thirdly, That he should pay a fourth part of his wife’s fortune, in cafe he should Succeed, to the public stock. There were other regulations, with regard to the number of days in a month, an adventurer was to be allowed his chariot, chut the time I have mentioned were the fundamental laws upon which our Society was established.
As Soon as my time of inadlivity was expired, I qustted Service, and, being properly furnished, went down to Tunbridge, where, after a courtship of six weeks, I carried off a gentlewoman pretty well stricken in years, who had been kept by a nobleman till his death; and was by him left twelve tholisand pounds in ready money, jewels, plate, and furniture. She required no Settlement; I therefore got entire pos lession of her whole fortune. I took a genteel house, and setup a gay equipage;. we
N visited
\
^ ..m
\
9
\
( 266)
visited all public places, where we generally dressed richly, and kept the best company, to which I was the more easily introduced, as I played very deeply, and wasextremely Sond of gaming, a vice which levels all ranks of men, and lets the footman upon an e quality with the peer of the realm,. By this means I got admittance into Some of the most fashonable houses in town, and had the liberty of talking to a duchess with the utmost familiarity; a liberty I generally used to pay dearly for to her husband at Pharoah, or Laniquinet. The rate that we lived at Soon exhausted our twelve thousand pounds, and I got considerably in debt, without a poshbility of ever paying my creditors, unless Some unforeseen accident was to furnish me with the money.
It has been remarked, that people who play, begin by being dupes, and end by becoming rogues; which remark was verified in me : For having lorn a large Sum of money at play, 1 resolved to repair my fortune the Same way 1 had ruined it. Pharoah had been my favourite game; I therefore thought it most advisable to continue to play at it, as an alteration of my game might create Suspicion; I made it my business to find out a card maker, of whom I beshoke an hundred packs of cards; but
before
%
i
I
V
f
( 267)
besore he made them up, and put the stamps of the duty upon them, I ordered him to Send them to my house, that I might examine whether they were Substantial, and properly made, they being Sora friend a broad, who had given me particular directions to have theni very strong. They were accordingly Sent to me; and having marked the edges of Some particular cards with a black lead pencil, in Such a manner that I could not mistake them; I lent back the cards, which were made up, and had the stamp duty fixed upon them. Everybody knows, that, at all gaming coffeehouses, at the Mount, at white’s, sanders’s, and the king’s arms in Cornhill, the tables are Set in the room in the morning, each with two packs of cards upon it before any anybody goes; I used therefore to repair to one of those places, of which I was, a member, anc put two of my marked packs upon every table in the places of those I found thera; So that I was Sure, at which table Soever the pharoah bank should be held, that I should have my marked cards to play with; I won a good Sum of money by this means; but, unluckily, one morning, when a four fellow held the bank, and I had Swept off more than anybody at the table, he took it into his head to ren
2 move
( 268)
move the table into a dark corner of the room. So that I could not distinguish the marks I had made; my luck immediately changed; upon which a shlpicion was naturally raised of there being Ibme trick or artifice pradtised by me. The company therefore examined the cards at the window, and discovered the marks of the black lead pencil, which were very visible. I j, was 'kicked by several gentlemen I had cheated, and expelled the table in the most ignominious manner.
The story Soon got wind, and became a public town talk; So that all the fashionable houses, which before had been open to me, were now shut, and admittance denied me.
When I had Spent all my winnings, and •sold my furniture, I retired with my wife to a Small lodging, in a court going from the Mews to St. martin’s churchyard; from whence I frequently made excursions to finchley common, or hounfiow heath,
. to Supply my expenses. It was not in my power to forgo the pleasure of a game at cards; as I had been expelled the politer Societies, I therefore got admittance into one of not So reputable a sort; there was an alehouse in an alley, the back of new port market, wwere hackney coachmen,
butchers,
!
( 269)
butchers, and hostlers tiled to repair, in order to pass away a dull evening *, I won at first a good deal in this Society, by means of my marked cards. Some of which I had still in store; but as we had a clean pack only once a week, the marks were fooa worn out, by the greasy hands of the gentlemen that played.
One evening, when I was out upon a pecuniary expedition on bag shot heath, I went up to a single gentleman, in order to lay him under contribution, who, at the same instant that I presented my pistol to his breast, and bid him stop, asked me likewise for my money, and pulled out a weapon of the same Sort; we both were e qually astonished; but upon an explanation being made, I found that my brother robber was a master barber, that used to frequent the Same house that I did behind newport market, whom I had frequently played with at lansquinet and put After we had robbed two officers in a post ’ chaise, armed with a pair of pistols and a blunderbuss, and four ladies in a coach and six, we rode home together. My companion told me, the master of thehoule where we used to meet, was concerned with him, as well as Several other of the people that were frequently engaged in the house. at
N 3 cards.
( 270)
cards. We used frequently to make excursions together.
One morning, however, when the room was very full with different parties at put, all fours, and Swabbers, two tallow chandlers came into the room, and called for a quart of porter; they sat in a box, and took no notice of any person for a confide rable time; at last, one of them rising from his seat, ran towards me, and. Seizing me by the collar. Swore I was the man that had tobbed him upon finchley common. All my comrades, instead of coming to my ashstance, left their cards, and run out of the room, as did the master of it: Conscience makes cowards of us all; it would have been the easiest thing in nature, if my companions had stood by me, to have mastered the two fellows that assaulted me. I had a pistol about me; but my hands were immediately secured, and there was no possibility of my using it. I was carried before a Westminster Justice; to whom I confessed the robbery I was accused of, and Signed my confession. The two persons that took me, it Seems, were captains of merchant ships, whom the master barber and myself had robbed upon finchley common; I found that they Swore So positively to my features, there was no posh
N 4 bility
i
^.
i
t
( 271)
bility of making a defence, particularly as the man by whom my associates used to prove an alibi, was gone to lea; I was therefore Sent to Newgate, where I was loaded with the heaviest irons.
I wrote to Several of the noble peribnages who had formerly cheated me of great pare of my wife’s fortune, during the gay period of my life; as to her, she had Some time before gone into the Service of a lady in Yorkshire.
Don Gordinos had got thus far in the recital of his adventures, when we were interrupted, by a messenger from Don Per -- fiando dlbara, y Figueoray y Mafearenes, y Lampourdos, y Souza., the governor, to De la Font, whom he desired instantly to see, having Something to impart to him, in which the glory of his Catholic majesty, the king of Spain and the Indies, was nearly interested, as well as the Safety of the whole state. De la Font was a good deal confounded at this Summons; which, however, he prepared to obey, and desired that Gordinos, and myself, would do him the favour of bearing him company to the go vernor’s house; which request we both very willingly complied with.
N 4 CHAP.
(
#
\
( 272)
%
CHAP. XVL
THE N we arrived at the governor's ^ % palace, we were condudled into a large hall, where, being left by Gordinos, we continued for three hours, without any word Sent us from the apartment within; at length, however, the folding door was opened, and the echoing it made in the Spacious hall, caused no Small perturbation in the heart of my friend. We were ushered into the governor’s presence by an English laquey, who bowed down to the ground every step he took; and, as we imagined it was the etiquette of the place, we followed his example. Don Fernando dl -- bara.t y Figueora.^ y mafearanes t y Lamp our -- dosy y Souza, vtsis reclined upon a Ibpha,. under a canopy, in dishabille, with morocco nippers, and a rich brocade nightgown; he stroked his whiskers with the utmost composure, and bid me approach without fear: Which of you two is De la Sont, the French Surgeon, Said he? A question he rniight very well have Ipared, as it was improbable that a Frenchman would praftise Surgery in the the habit of a Capuchin friar. De la Font taking up the
coni

0
( 273)
conversation, as it was his bufiness, began, as follows, with a faltering voice: “I “have the honour of answering to the “name of De la Font; as Soon as I was “old, that it was your excellency’s will “and pleasure, that I should have the ho“ “of waiting upon your Excellency, “I hastened, with all the zeal it was in my - ‘ power, to obey your commands.” “I “have heard, (Said Don Fernando dlbarny y Figueorny y marcarenesy y Lampourdos., y Souza., interrupting De la f'ent’s harangue) “I have heard (Said he, stroking his right whisker with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand) “a very good character of “your honesty, and ability in your profes “Sion; and particularly, what I esteem “■ more than all, your attachment and ve “neration for the government of his most “Sacred Catholic majesty, the king of Spain “and the Indies. By the last dilpatches L “received from the king my master, he “lets me know, which I would not now “communicate to you, but as a mark of 'my favour and protection, that his subjects are threatened with a bloody and cruel “war, by thosepyrates and common disturb“ “of mankind the English; and as he un “derstood, and was well informed, that our forts and fortifications were in a bad pon
5 ‘‘ sturc
#
• ^
*
*
ft
( 274)
«
“sture of defence; he entreated us, that “we would forthwith put the Same into as “good order as we were able; to which “purpose, as I understand you are posses“ “of a large Sum of money, and do not “very well know in what manner to place “the same out advantageoussy, I desire you ■ “will let me have it only for six weeks, for D which I will give you my bond, with in“ “at the rate of twelve percent, ” My intention (answered De la Font) of ‘‘'returning to Cadiz, will put it out of my “power of obliging your Excellency So “Soon as I would otherwise have done; “but I am at present making up my af“ “and in a few days shall; ” — “Oh“ “is that to the purpose (interrupted Don Fernando dd.hara^ y Figmora.^ y maf €arenesyy lampourdosy y Souza with a good deal of warmth) “I told you before, I “should have occasion for the money only “for six weeks; at the end of which time, “I should be obliged, to you, if you would “take it of me again. Be So good there“ “by tomorrow morning, as to get “eight hundred pistoles ready,, and my “Secretary shall call at your house.” “De la Font told him, it was a great deal of “money to raise at So Small a notice which the governor Seemed to make ve
n
I
m ^
( 275)
ry light of, as he had very certain information from Gordinos, that the Said eight hundred pistoles were in De la font’s strong box; the visit was ended, by his wishing us a! good evening; and assuring De la Font, that he would put up prayers to Sf. Thomas, for his prosperous and happy voyage to Cadiz. As we were descending the steps of the palace, we met Navarro, who had like wile been Sent for by Don Fernando dlbara^ y Figueora., y Mafcarenes.^ y Lampourdos., yr souza.t upon Some emergency of the state; as we walked back to De la font’s shop, he did not utter a word all the way; but after we had Sat down for a few minutes, and had stared at one another Sufficiently; what Say you now, my friend. Said I, td the Sweets of arbitrary power? It will Soon enable you to double your capital, that you may return to the province of Bearne, and purchase a Signiory. The promptitude of the executive power is admirable j it is surprising all free states do not Submit to the will of one man. My dear friend. Said the dejedled Frenchman, your raillery at this time is very ill placed, and I took you for a man of more humanity, than to makeyourlelf merry at the ruin, of a poor unfortunate wretch, who has been, tantaliz
, ed
#
t
( 276)
ed by Sortune, and a Small pittance he had railed. Snatched from him just at the time he was going for ever to Secure it. I mean no offence, De la Font, I answered; So far from exulting at your reverse of fortune, that I Sincerely condole with you upon it. My intention was only to make you lenfible of the absurdity of your political notions, and the tyranny and oppress fion of that System, which you and Navarro used to extol with Such hyperbolical encomiums. You should, however, I continued, endeavour to bear this accident with patience and resignation;; Submishon to the divine will, in matters where human prudence and industry can avail you nothing, is not only incumbent upon us as a duty, but like wise the only alleviation we can hope for under Such circumstances.
Whilst I was administering this Spiritual conlblation to my French friend, Navarro came in, who bore marks of rage and choler in his countenance, rather than me lancholly and dejedlion : Ah, my reverend father. Said he, addressing himself to ' me, you are but too right in your idea of government; and by fatal experience, I am now too late thoroughly convinced, that one man, let him be ever So great or good,
is improper to govern a people. I have
been
•/
»
I. 277)
been ten years Scraping together a Small Sum of money, that I might educate my family, and provide for the neceshties of the old age, of myself and my wife; and here, in half an hour, it is irrevocably Snatched from me, by the avarice and rapaciousnefs of the governor of Buyenos Aires. Happy are those men, who have the fruits of their industry and honest labours, secured to them by good and wholsome laws; the just and due observation of which is enforced by a wife, upright, and incorruptible jurisdidtivc power. For my part, life is become a burden to me, stripped, as I am, of all Subsistence; I have nothing now to desire, but that the Same arbitrary power, which has robbed me of my property, would likewise put a period to this unfortunate existence of mine. Let us hope for the best, my dear friends, De la Font, Said I, and Don John Thomas Nunez Navarro, the money his Excellency the governor has borrowed of you, may very possibly be paid much Sooner than you expect; besides, you have considerable interest with Don Gordinos, who is everything with his Excellency, and, by that means, you may possibly be able to obtain a quick order for your respedlive Sums of money, with interest at the rate which has been promised you., ymy
0
♦ #
(278)
“My dear Friend (interrupdng me, answered Navarro) “you are a stranger to “the manner of our Spanish governors, “particularly to Don Fernando dlbara, y “Figueora., y Mafcarenes.^ y Lampourdos^ y “Souza; and as to your countryman, Don “Gordinos, I have been Since credibly in“ “he is the minion and instrument “os the injustice and oppreshon of the go“ “our intercourse with him, a“ “! I but too much fear, has been the “cause of our ruin; judge then whether “we should alk or expect anything from “that quarter? ”
I know too much of gordinos’s history from his own mouth, to have any doubt remaining concerning the integrity of his heart, which I should now have disclosed to my two unhappy friends. Had I not thought it more advisable to be filent upcn that article, for the following rea&n; the Friars of the society of Capuchins at Bnyenos Aires had often invited me to take up my abode in their Convent; the way of life and principles of that order of men was what, in my heart, I abhorred and detested. I therefore always thanked them for their civility and goodwill; but excused myself by apologies. Sometimes founded in truth, but more frequently frivilous and
h.
%
i
( v9)
I
fidfitious; which, being sh osten repeated had created a Suspicion, that there was fbmething very remarkable about me which I was ashamed, or rather afraid of discovering; the consequence of which was a report to my disadvantage, which gor dinos very candidly and amicably told me had reached the governor’s ear.
o
It was to no purpose my two fellow passengers bewailed the cruelty of their lot;, the day following, according to his excellency’s appointment, the secretary waited upon my friends, and carried away what they valued more than drops of their hearts, blood. I could not help thinking, that the tyranny and injustice of the governor' to De la Font and Navarro was a providential punishment for their ingratitude and inhumanity to the African prince, and the six princesses, his daughters.
Gordinos no longer visited De la Font,,., for which reason we were all confirmed in, the opinion, that he was the cause of the governor’s demanding the loan; a messenger one evening came to me in a great.
^ hurry from this gentleman, with immediate orders to repair to Don Fernando d.vara^. y Figueora.^ y Mafcerenes., y Lampourdos., y Souza's house; I obeyed the Summons instantly," andwas introduced into gordinos’s
apart
<
I
r
( 280)
apartment; who, after making an apology for Sending for me in so Sudden and abrupt a manner, told me, that the governor’s lady, hearing that there was a Romish priest of the English nation at Buyenos Aires, and having a remarkable partiality towards people of that country, had desired to employ me as a supernumerary cfiaplain, and wished the very next morning to have a probational conversation with me. gordi nos in fisted upon my staying to Sup with him, and the entertainment he treated me with, which was his usual fare, convinced me, beyond a possibility of a doubt, that he shared with the governor the fortunes of those unlucky people, who had acquired a tolerable property in the province.
After Supper, when the Servants had Served the desert, and left us to ourselves, Don Gordinos having drank a glass of Malaga, to my fuccess in the agreeable employment I was going to enter upon, resumed the recital of his adventure in the following words:
“After I had Solicited all my former great friends to no purpose, to obtain a pardon for the robbery, I was confined in a dungeon; I at last thought of writing to, my wife, who, it Seems, had upon her marriage Secreted a large Sum of money, that
she
m
m •
V
( 28l)
she concealed in the hole of a wall, which she caused to be bricked up a short time before she changed her state; she immediately came up to town, and promised to procure my enlargement, provided I would quit the kingdom, and never return to it more.
“Her money had a very powerful and miraculous effect; for one morning, as Icon as I waked, I Saw my door open, and seized the opportunity of making my escape. It was inserted in the news paper, that I died in prison. I went in the packet boat to Ostend, where, having Spent two pieces my wife’s bounty had furnished me with,
I travelled to Antwerp, where I enlisted in the Walloon guards, and was Sent with a body of recruits to Barcelona, which was the headquarters of our regiment. Finding at length that honesty is the best policy, I determined to recommend myself to my officers by my good qualities, and Sue.. So well, that I obtained my discharge, and was recommended by one of them to wait upon the Son of the Marquis De i’asminas, governor of Catalonia, not merely as a laquey, but at the Same time to instrudl him in the English language, which his father was desirous he should learn. Flattery, that most powerful of all engines,
by
• «
\
28^2)
by which the human mind is to be worked upon, was the means by which I engratiat ed myself with my young master, to that degree, that I acquired a total ascendant over him; he governed his mother, who had an entire Sway over the Marquis; So that I acquired the dominion of the whole province of Catalonia.
I accompanied the family to Madrid,, where I was recommended by the Marquis De i’asminas to Mr. Wall, as a proper peribn to attend his relation, Signera Donna Clementina Jttanna.^ to South Amierica. I was employed in a very disagreeable eommis fion, as I was near the person of one of the most beautiful women it is possible to conceive, who had let herself So much against the person, and part of the world she was going to, that it was enough to melt the heart of a Savage, to be a witness to her grief and lamentations.
It was in vain that we represented the dignity and magnificence of the employment, with which Don Fernando dlbara, y Figueora., y Mafearenes., y Lampourdos., y Souzat was invested with, the nobility of his pedigree, the gentleness of his mannas, and the beauty of his person, it was all to no purpose.
During
( 283)
During the passage, which was a very long one, as we were detained by contrary winds, she never ceased bewailing her fate; and, when she was brought into the governor’s presence, she fainted away; everything that could be imagined, was done to console her; his Excellency had made the greatest preparations it was possible, to receive her with Splendour and magnificence. The day after her arrival was fixed upon for their nuptials; she desired it might be deferred till after dinner, which was granted by the bishop with Ibme difficulty. The fatal hour at length came, when the indissoluble knot was tied; when the ceremony was over, fixing her eyes upon his Excellency, the lovely Clementina fetched a deep Sigh! It is true. Said she, the words are pronounced by which I am married according to the laws of my country; but I must do that justice to you, and to myself, to declare, I never will be yours. The governor tried every method to bend her stubborn heart. After the tables were removed, and they had? drank coffee, he led her through the irn ipense apartments of the palace, which were more remarkable for the taste of the architecture and furniture, than the magnificence of them. From the palace she
was
• •
/
( 284)
was condudfed into the most delightful gardens; all that art can invent, either with regard to Symmetry and brilliancy, are joined in this delightful Ipot, to the charming simplicity of nature: On one fide were rustic grotto’s and meandering rivulets, whose gentle murmur invited perlbns that vere near, to repose themselves upon its verdant and mossy banks; on the other fide was a succession of cascades, which reached almost out of sight; Superb curiosities and statues which would rival the fumiptuousness of stow gardens; in one place the new married couple lost themselves in the winding and unequal walks of a wood, the wildness of which rendered it the more agreeable; in another part, a venues of a Surprising height afforded a more easy, but a less voluptuous walk r The parterre’s enchanted the beholders with the variety and beauty of the flowers with which they were adorned. Flora had fixed her empire for ever in this Spot, and the gentle zephyrs Seemed as if they had lost their inconstancy, by the delight they Seemed to take in this place. The woods and groves were filled with all kinds of birds; the turtledove mixed its tender and plaintive notes with the lively and tremulous Song of the thrush and nightingale.
Every
• •
( 2§5)
Everything, in short, naturally excited the idea of love in this delicious retreat; every object offered it to the eyes, and inspired the heart with it; it almost Seemed as if it was communicated to the air of this enchanting place.
Clementina, however, retained the de jedted look she had all along born upon her voyage from Old Spain. During the walk of the new married couple through these delightful regions, Don Fernando dl bar a., y Figueora., y Mafcarenes^ y lampour dos., y Souza., was continually talking to the unhappy Clementina about the ardour of his passion, and Ibmetimes Squeezing her hand with the utmost tenderness, would give her a hint of those more than Sublunary pleasures he was going loon to feast upon; but she, all the time, appeared to be absorbed in melancholy contemplation; and, whenever she could do it with decency and good manners, withdrew her hand. After they had beheld the most curious and Surprising fireworks, the governor conducted her back to their apartment in the palace, where she placed herself in the corner of the room at a considerable distance from the rest of the company; the gover nour, after she had been there Some time. Seated himself near her, and began a tender
‘ \
, i'
'

( 286)
I
der and pathetic discourse; which Clementina not being willing to hearken to, took up a guitar, that was lying upon a Sopha within, her reach, which she began to touch, but with So much precision, brilliancy, and delicacy, and Sung with so infinite a grace and elegance, that Don Fernando was So 'exceedingly penetrated, that the ardour of his pashon Iparkled in his eyes; this divine music continued till Supper, at which all the nobility, and persons remarkable for. their wit, vivacity, or agreeable talents, were present; many witty things, relating to the affair in agitation, were Said; but nothing that was uttered, or passed at table, was capable of mollifying the Severity and me.. of clementina’s looks. She uled every art in her power to prolong the repast; which, however, at length was ended; and she insisted upon playing a party at ombre or quadrille, which, after a good deal of entreaty, his Excellency consented to; when this was finished, the governor conducted Clementina to her apartment, and, assuring her of his Speedy return, left her to her waiting women, whom he enjoined to do their office with the utmost diligence, and quickly to put Clementina in a Situation to answer to the impetuosity of his desires.
The
% ■
\
( 28y)
The unhappy, dejedted Clementina shuddered upon her going into her apartment, and as Soon as Fernando had left the room,. stung herself upon the bed, which she bathed with a profusion of tears: Unhappy wretch that I am, said she, my duty, and the laws of my country, on the one hand, exact an obedience to the will of Don Fernando; but, on the other, what violence must I do to my own inclinations? And must I submit to be folded in those odious arms, to have those detestable whiskers.... Her sighs, and the deluge of tears that stowed from her lovely eyes, prevented her. from finishing the Sentence; she Spent a constderab'e time in restedtions and observations of this sort. Her women at length, however, finished the greatest part of their employment, all the pins, by which her magnificent Suit of clothes had been put on, were stung about in the most brilliant confusion. The bride was now covered only with a light Silken garment, and her women had prepared the nuptial bed for her reception, as Soon as they should finish their business entirely, when she ordered them to withdraw, and leave her to herself.
They represented to her, in the most re ipedlful manner, the necessity of her going
to
t
’ tt
■
( 288)
to bed. She answered, stinging herself upon a Soph a that stood very nea, she would not go to bed the whole night, and showed So inlurmountable a resolution, or rather an obstinacy in this matter, that her women, at length being tired of waiting, lest her. As Soon as they were gone out of the room, she run to the door, which she double locked, bolted, and barred. The waiting women run downstairs tittering, and desired I would inform his Excellency, Don Fernanda dlbara, y Figueora.^ y maf carenes.t y Lampourdos.^ y Souza, of what had happened, and the resolution Donna Signora Clementina had taken. His Excellency having already had a Specimen of the lady’s coldness, reserve, and appearance of distike to him, was not So much astonished as I expected, when I imparted to him what the waiting women had told me, relating to her resolution, and her having Secured the door. Oh! Said he, (stroking both his whiskers with his two hands at the Same time) I warrant you, I will contrive matters in Such a manner, that she will change her opinion relating to the necessary fundbions of her state; let the women sit up all night, and do you be ready,
. with two or three of the laqueys, to answer the ringing of the bell. But how does
your
%
f
(289)
your Excellency propose to get into the bedchamber;; the waiting women as sured me, they heard Donna Clementina double lock, bolt, and bar the door. Let me alone, my dear Gordinos, replied his Excellency; and, taking two wax lights in his hands went up a Small staircase, near which was a private door, that opened into the bed chamber, behind the tapestry, which Donna Signora Clementina had not perceived, and consequently left unsecured. Clementina still continued upon the Sopha, cooling her heels, and thought herself very Secure from Don Fernando dlbara., y Figueora > y Maf~ ■carenes., y Lampourdos.^ y souzd.s Entreaties; as Soon as she Saw him come into the room. from under the tapestry, was So extremely lurprised, that she twice fainted away. The governor, being a man of great foresight, brought a small vial of hartshorn, which he instantly applied to her nose; and it had the desired effect of recovering her. He had got her left hand in his right, and when she had perfectly come to herself. Squeezing it with a gentleness that expressed the ardour of his flame : The more I endeavour, said he, to make you sensible that my Soul is entirely devoted to you, the more; I am afraid, I excite your indignation and dislike. Alas! why did yciu ever
O con(
()
consent to visit these mansions of the unsor fortunate Ibara} besore your arrival I was perfectly happy, and should for ever have continued So, had I never known those fatal charms. Ah, dearest Clementina, vouchsafe to turn those piercing and bright luminaries towards me; one look, be it only of compassion, will fet my heart at ease. I • am not your enemy; it is not a Savage, or a barbarian, that is Ipeaking to you, but the most tender and passionate of lovers, who, totally yours, would for ever, if he was able, blot out from the annals of time, the days he has lived without adoring you. Is it me therefore that you ought to hate, and fly from? I do not hate you, answered tqe lovely Clementina, lifting up her eyes, which were Swelled with the tears she had shed; I have as great a regard for you as for most men, which indeed amounts to no more than a perfect indifference. Love is an involuntary passion, and if it was in my power to put it on, or command it, my duty to you as my lawful husband, and my obedience to my cruel parents, who have forced me into your arms, would be reasons for my desiring to have it. I have then nothing more to lay, answered - Fernando; your interest, if nothing else, methinks, should engage you to behave
with
• •
€
( 291)
with icss rigour and Severity. Go then, enjoy your cruelty; I never shall talk to you more of my passion, and the necessary matrimonial Sundtions you have this day, in the most Sacred manner, engaged to undergo; by your unaccountable capri ciousness the more I talk to you upon the Subject, the more averse you are from it Ah, charming Clementina, he added, I deserve better treatment from you; and I am convinced, if you had any lenfibility at all, you would be mollified by my entreaties; will those eyes, and that charming mouth. Said he, kishng it with ardour, for ever put a negative on my desires?? his excellency’s taking this liberty, Clementina stew to the bell in the corner of the room, which she rung with the utmost violence; upon which her maids run upstairs and she opened the door to them.
Don Fernando never has been able to prevail upon her to Submit to the Hymeneal fundlions, notwithstanding every stratagem fallen upon to effect that end. And if you can, by any means, soften her stubborn resolution, you may expect to be rewarded in the most ample manner. After Gordinos had drank fuccess to me in the agreeable
O 2 office
i
C 292)
office I was going to enter upon, I wished him a good evening, and took my leave for that night.
The day following, when I had waited upon the governor and bishop, I was ushered by Gordinos into clementina’s apartment, who paid a great many compliments to the Nation from which I was sprung. Notwithstanding her refraftori jiess, with regard to the matrimonial duties, her looks very plainly indicated, that she had not a bit of nun’s flesh in her whole composition; during our intercourse I frequently observed her to look at me with more attention, than I thought any religious motive could engage her to do.
She had not been been Sparing the day
before of her languishing locks, and, after
I had left her in the evenino Sent me a
• • ■ ^
message, with an injunction to wait upon her very early in the morning. I thought there must be Some very extraordinary reason for this message, as it is unusaal for the Spanish ladies to Send messages to per ibns, who are not of their own Sex, however Sandtified by a religious calling. I obeyed the Summons at the hour appointed, and perceiving a remarkable stillness and Silence in the palace, I naturally inquired
the
♦
J
( 293)
the reason of this extraordinary quiet? One of the porters told me his Excellency Don Fernando dlbara^ y Figucora., y mafcarenesy y Lampcurdos., y Souza, was gone into the country, with many osthe nobility, to hunt the wild boar, and was accompanied by the greatest part of his retinue and house hold. I went to ciem»entina’s apartment, who was sitting upon a Sopha; she leaned her head upon one of the cushions, and was amusing herself with knotting; and was dressed in one of those dishabilles. So extremely carelessly put on, that, by the accident of a pin’s giving way, or the break • ing of a loop, more is exposed to view, than was at first intended to be concealed: A tunic half open before, discovered a neck of So admirable a form, and So transcen dent a whiteness, that, had I not been fortified with the strongest resoiution of never more being susceptible of gentle feelings for any woman, but the adorable Lucinda, 1 very possibly might have lost that relpebt for Clementina, she now, I could easily discover, ardently wished I should no longer preserve. Her legs being carelessly ssung over one another, were rested upon a footstool, by which she contrived to distover her well formed ankle, and the most con
O 3 Siderable
I
s
♦
4
j; ♦ «
C 29^4*)
fiderable part of one of her legs. She almost appeared as is she had lost all decency, and when I approached her, my Sace was covered with blushes : Come near me, my dear and reverend father. Said she, in a ibst tone of voice, taking me by the hand. Sighing, and looking at me in the most languishing manner, come here, she Said, and be Seated, that I may hear the more di stindlly the Sweet and musical Sound of your enchanting voice. It is a thousand pities, she continued, that you hide the greatest part of Ib genteel and elegant a person, by the homely garments of your order. Limbs made like yours, the grace and nobility of your gate and gestures, are entirely concealed and lost by the ugly and uncouth teguments that cover them; these accidental or fortuitous advantages, I answered, Donna Signora Clementina, can Scarcely be deemed our own; whatever is the effect of chance, in no measure belongs to us; therefore are little to be valued. The mental qualities, or those which depend im meeliately upon ouselves, are the only ones that are truly meritorious; virtue, prudence, discretion, generosity, benevolence, and particularly an endeavour to fulfil the duties of that state in which our own inclinations,
or
« •
I
( 295)
or chance, has placed us; these are the qualities or perfections that are really and intrinsically valuable. Our duty, Madam, in every respect ought to be performed with the most Scrupulous exactness. In the first place, our duty towards our Creator; in the next, our duty to ourselves; and, lastly, our duty to Society, or to those with whom we live, or have connexions of any Sort; Such as a just and rcasonable obedience to parents, and, above all, a Submishon to the necessary and proper inclinations of a huff band. In this place, Clementina fixed her eyes upon the floor, and gently pulled her garment downwards: we are in general by nature, 1 continued, formed for the marriage state; and when we have once taken the vow of obedience to a husband, that, as well as the intentions of that condi tion, as a political institution, and the pur poses of fulfilling the first general hail, should be forcible and cogent arguments to prevail upon every woman to Submit to the wishes of her husband.
My dear and reverend father, answered Clementina, I can plainly See the Scope and tendency of your discourse;; unconquerable antipathy to the man I have been compelled to marry, is a misfortune which time, place, argument, nor anything in na
O 4 ture,
$
-, (296)
tiire, I am convinced, will ever be able to overcome; therefore be for ever Silent upon that head.
I am formed by nature like other women; but, alas! she continued. Sighing with desire stashing from her eyes, I am but too sensible that I am made like other women, and would willingly Submit to the wishes....... but taste, you are very Sensible,
as well in women as in your Sex, is totally involuntary; and we are no more able to direct the choice, upon vshich our love is fixed, than we can alter our taste for a pineapple, or a ne£l: arine, into an aversion for those fruits, or into a liking or fondness for wormwood or rhubarb. Believe me, we are not mistresses of our own desires; and if Don Fernando was as amiable as a person that you very well know :
She, in this place, feiled my hand, and, fc|ueezing it, looked at me with confusion;; lifting up her eyes, let them fall upon me with the utmost tenderness, and Sighing with violence, continued; too happy should I be to yield him what he has wished for with Such impatient desire. Clementina had now gone So far, that she thought there was no possibility of retreating; she therefore determined not to mince the matter, having hold of my hand, and still
con
%
%
/)
continuing to press it; many, I have the vanity to think, have been penetrated with the graces and charms of my peribn, and was I Sure the man upon whom my arderrt wishes are placed, was not insenfible to my pashonate desires, he should find, that I would reward........in this place, pulling
me gently down upon the Sopha, she kissed my cheek.
The great perturbation my whole soul, and every petty artery in my frame, was, at that instant, stung into, is inconceivable; my complexion is naturally Sanguine -, clementina’s person, always incomparably beautiful, received new lustre from the confusion her excess of passion occasioned; her Snowy, heaving bosom, her eager looks, her gentle Squeezes, and broken sighs, were circumstances that concurred in no Small degree, to stagger my resolution of unalterable fidelity to the lovely and much injured Lucinda. But the image of that divine creature coming strongly into my mind at that critical moment, I jumped up from the sopha, and vent out of clementina’s apartment with the greatest haste.
My ruin, I took it for granted, would ipee dily be estedled, if I did not the country; for which reason I immediately waited
O 5 upon
( 298 i
upon the Captain of a Frigate, that was to Sail the day following for Ferol in Spain, who gave me the liberty of going in his vessel.
Late in the evening clementina’s favourite waiting woman and confidant brought me a purse of an hundred pistoles; in •which I found a paper containing the following words:.
“You are desired for ever to forget the “most unfortunate of women, who loved “you. with an ardour and delicacy of “passion your obdurate and insensible Soul *• was uncapable of perceiving, and conle “quently of making a Suitable and adequate “return, and to sty this province with the “utmost Speed. And let me repeat it to you “again, and for the last time, eternally “bury in oblivion, that ever you knew the “unhappy
“Clementina.”
f
The wind continuing fair, we sailed the next morning, according to the captain’s intention, and, in a few days, reached the line. The morning after we had got thus far, the man at the masthead gave us notice, that a Sail was bearing down, and Ibemed to gain upon us every moment.
We
m
» •
^ I
( 299)
We Soon discovered her to be a ship of
force; at length she came up with us, and, hoisting English colours, fired a gun. We ^ made a show of fighting; but, after we had fired our broad fidc, struck. The principal officers were all removed on board ^ the English man of war, and I had the lot of being Sent for amongst them. There was upon the deck an officer of marines, whose features I thought I had Somewhere Seen before, but could not that moment recoiled: the person’s name. I therefore asked the sentinel that guarded us, the names of the officers of the marines; who informed me, that the Captain was named Jacobs. I had now no doubt remaining, but that the person, whose features had struck me, was my old schoolfellow.
The sentinel, by my desire, went for Jacobs, who was infinitely amazed to see me in the dress of a Capuchin friar I briefly told him my adventures since our last Separation at ingerford park, after our having acted the Tragedy of Julius caesar; and desired he would, in his turn, inform me of what had happened to him during that time.
Lie' told me, nothing very remarkable; except his having obtained a captain’s commission,
i
• { 300)
mission, as a reward for his valour in an engagement their ship had with a French man of war, which, though much Superior, they had taken; and the event of the affair was much influenced by the bravery and alertness of the marines. The captain of which corps had been killed in the beginning of the action;; the command had devolved upon him.
I purchased a Suit of clothes on board the man of war; and my beard being shaved, I assumed once more the character and appearance of a temporal being. Our ship bore down with her prize to Jamaica, where she arrived very Ibon, having a brisk trade wind, and came to an anchor in King: Q; on harbour.
CHAP. XVII
$
TH E first thing I did when I arrived,
was to go to lucinda’s house, in the little alley, near the coconut tree, which I had formerly made the mark, by which I: had been guided to her abode; but when
I approached, 1 found everything was shut,
rnd
>
j **
()
and my heart was in no Small perturbation for the fate of the angelic creature. Upon inquiry, however, the gentle ssutterings Subfided. She had retired, it Seems, with her mother to the Blue mountains.
Eugenio was arrived from England; but was, at that time, in a remote part of the issand upon a visit, from which he was not to return for a considerable time..
The public was, at this time, making merry at the expense of the Ipeaker, who had not long before married a young woman without any fortune, and of an obscure family, entirely for love. His former marriages, which had been confradted wholly with an interested view, had been fruitless. His last wife. Soon after their nuptials, was declared pregnant, to the infinite joy of the Speaker; who had lent three hogsheads of beer, and one of claret, to be drank upon the birth of his child. Several chaldrons of coals were sent likewise to make a bonfire upon the top of a hill, which could be leen all over the issand, and every other prepartion was made, that could mark the event with joy, festivity, and eclat.
The Ipeaker had all the attention possible for his lady during her being with child,
and
I
X
%•
v
Ml
( 302)
and waj ready to devour her with sondness and caresses. The carriage, in which she used to take the air, was ordered to go a foot pace, and a coachman was turned a way for presuming to trot his horses. Three midwives were retained, and lived four months in the house before she was brought to bed.
The' time of Mrs, boat’s delivery at length arrived, when behold she brought into the world a mulatto. Epigrams and pasquinades were written, and dispersed in all parts of the ioand. His picture was ludicroussy drawn upon every wall and fign post; and the Negroes composed a Song in his honour, which was bellowed in the streets of Kingston, and in every plantation in the issand.
I wrote Lucinda a letter, in which, after a confession of the fault I had been guilty of, and the injury I had done her, offered to make her reparation by marrying her. She answered my letter immediatdy, and with a great deal of civility. But concluded, that a man, who was capable of ■ using her III the manner I had done, was unworthy of ever being her husband.
Upon eugenio’s arrival in town, I prevailed upon him to go with me to make a
vit

\
%
.
✓
( 303)
visit to Lucinda; in hopes that a personal expostulation might have more influence than my epistolary entreaty had made; but all that I could Say was to no effect.
My brother’s wife had still posseshon of high grumps; and, notwithstanding my clear right to the estate, obstinately per fisted to keep possession of it; which, she Said, she had a power to do, by virtue of a deed of Settlement Humphrey had made after his marriage. Her stubbornneis, it was evident, would be productive of an expensive lawsuit, Scandal prevails between the tropics, as much as it does in the cities of London and Westminster. The story of the time in Jamaica was, that Lucinda had refused to marry me, because I was kept out of my plantation, and, in all probability, ruined.
This report, in no Small degree, hurt lucinda’s delicacy, which, together with her compashon for my distresses and mis fortunes in life, had a greater influence upon her heart, than all my fine Ipeeches and protestations. A meeting between was us contrived; but I will not tyre the reader with a dulstthreadbare, hackney’d account of the Soft things I Said to her, and the coy manner of her answering a first, and other things of the same important kind, which Swell
the
¥
1
f
4
'( 304.)
the volumes of my brethren, the writers of Novels. Let it Suffice to inform him, that she consented to marry me, though I was at that time kept out of possession of my estate, and there was a probability of my Spending the greatest part of her fortune in a tedious lawsuit.
Eugenio gave his Sister away, and the wedding was graced with the presence of many people of distindlion in the issand. But let me not violate thy holy mysteries,
0 Hymen! and profane thy sacred nghts, by divulging them to common ears; all
1 shall Say upon the Subject is, that they alone, whose hearts are sensible of the hallowed joys of chaste love, are capable of forming a just idea of the ecstatic bliss, with which all my Sufferings vere crowned.
We continued to live with lucinda’s mother, and Eugenio, till the issue of our legal dispute should be known; and as I found, that my brother’s wise stim continued obstinately to with hold his personal estate from me, as well as to continue in possession of high grumps, I was under the necessity of bringing a bill in Chancery against her; to which purpose,
I gave diredlions to Mr. Pennyfeather, the great Chancery counsel, common lawyer,
eivi
♦
( 305)
civilian, Solicitor, attorney, prodtor, conveyancer, and Special pleader, to file a bill without delay, and in two days he brought me the following bill, drawn for my per rusal and amendment.
To the honourable Thomas Skinner., esquire, president of his majesty’s council in the issand of Jamaica in America; and to the other members of his majesty’s council aforesaid, in the issand atoresaid.
Humbly complaining, showeth unto your Honours, your orator, Jeremiah Grant., of High grumps, in the parish of St. David in the Eaji, in the issand aforesaid, esquire, brother and heir of Humphry Grant, late of High grumps, in the parish aforesaid, in the issand aforesaid, that the Said Humphry Grant, your orator’s late brother, was, in his life time, and at the time of his death. Seized in fee, or other good estate of inheritance, of and in a plantation, called High grumps, Situate, lying, and being in the parish of St. David in the Eajt, - aforesaid, in the issand of Jamaica aforesaid, containing by estimation, three hundred and eighty-five acres, or thereabouts, more or less, bounded, or terminated by, or bordering upon, the land of Phillip Caliban, esquire, on the North; and by the land of
the
V *
()
/
the honourable John Boat, esquire, Speaker of the assembly, on the West and South; and by the lands of William Smith, esquire, on the East; and likewise of a dwelling house, windmill, boiling house, curing house, and still house, with all, and Singular ways, waters profits, commodities, rights, members, and appurtenances, to, the Said dwelling house, windmill, boiling liolise, curing house, and Still house, belonging, adjoining, or any ways appertain ing, lying, being, standing, and situate in the plantation of High grumps aforesaid; and that the Said Humphry Grant, your orator’s late brother, was also, in his life time, and at the time of his death, possessed of, interested in, or entitled to, one hundred and twenty-five negroes, more or less, and to Several chattels, personal ready moneys, plate, household goods, stills, still heads, a great stock of cattle, horses, mule carts, hoes, bills, hoops, staves, wheelbarrows, baskets, pens, and other implements and utensils necessary towards carrying on the businels of the Said plantation, and the. making, refining, and manusadluring of Sugar, amounting in the whole to the Sum of Seven thousand pounds, or other con fiderable value; and your orator further
showeth,
- #
X
t
/ ^
»
( 307)
showeth, that your orator’s Said late brother, being So seized and prossessed, of and in.
Such real and personal estate as asoresaid, on or about the fourth day of February, which was in the year of our lofd, Seventeen hundred and sixty, one died intestate, leaving Elizabeth Grant, his widow and relidt, and your orator, his only brother, and heir as aforesaid; and your orator further showeth, unto your honours, that on the death of your orator’s Said late brother, the Said plantation, dwelling house, windmill, boiling house, curing house, and still house, with their, and every of their appurtenances, descended, remained, or came to your orator, as his heir at law, subject only to the right of dower of the Said Elizabeth Grant, widow or relidl of the Said Humphry Grant, in and to the Same, during the term of her natural life; and by virtue of the statute, for fettling inteicates, estates, the clear personal estate of the Said intestate, your orator’s late brother, after debts and funeral charges first paid, dedudted, and Satisfied, ought to be distributed and divided into two equal parts or shares, whereos the Said Elizabeth Grant is entitled to one part or share, and your orator (being the only Surviving brother of
the
/
( sos)
«
the Said late Humphry Grant) living at his death, is entitled to the other part, or share, of the Said personal estate. And your orator further showeth, that on his Said brother’s death, the Said Elizabeth Grant, during the absence of your orator in Great Britain, and foreign parts, where he was detained by unavoidable accidents, entered and pos lessed herself of all and Singular the Said real estate of your orator’s laid brother, and hath ever Since his death, received and taken the rents, issues, profits, and advantages thereof; and she, the Said Elizabeth Grant, also obtained letters of administration to be granted her out of the secretary’s office of this issand, of the Said intestate, your orator’s Said late brother’s personal estate, and by virtue' thereof, she, the said Elizabeth Grant, possessed herself of the Said intestate’s goods, chattels, negroes, and other personal estate, of such great value as aforesaid, or other great value; and hath sold and disposed of the same, and raised great Sums of money thereby; to one half, or moiety, whereof, your orator is entitled as aforesaid; and the Said Elizabeth Grant having lo entered upon, and possessed herself of your orator’s late brother’s Said real and personal estate as aforesaid, and thereout and thereby
• raised
* •
p
y
( 309)
raised and received great and considerable Sums of money, your orator well hoped the Said Elizabeth Grant would have come to a fair and just account with your orator, touching the Same, and have paid and answered to your orator what should appear justly due to him, in respedl of the premis
fes : BUT NOW SO IT IS, may it please your honours, that the Said Elizabeth Grant, combining and confederating with diverse persons unknown to your orator, whose names, when discovered, your orator prays may be made parties to this bill, with apt words to charge them, to defraud and cheat your orator in the premises; and having hossessed herself of all the deeds, and writings, concerning your orator’s Said brother’s plantation and estate, the Said Elizabeth Grant (though often requested and desired thereto by your oratorj) refuses to come to an account vrith your orator, touching the rents, issues, profits, and advantages of his Said brother’s plantation, or real estate; or the particulars, or values of the Said intestate’s personal estate; or how she, the Said Elizabeth Grant, hath administered or disposed of the Same; and hath not, as yet, exhibited any inventory thereof; the Said Elizabeth Grant pretending, that your orator is a supposed and
fidtitious
- - i
«
I
■ - 1
d
t
d
'1
C 310) i
V.B
fidlitious person, and that it is necessary he 1
should prove his identity, which your orator is ready, and can easiiy do; and that your orator’s Said brother was at his death, indebted to diverse persons on mortgages, Judgments, and other real Securities, and that she, the Said Elizabeth Grant, hath paid considerable Sums of money in, or towards the discharge or Satisfadlion thereof; and that she is entitled to her dower out of your orator’s Said brother’s real estate, or otherwise to a jointure on the Same, or Some part thereof, for payment of a yearly Sum of money to' her, during her natural life, or to Some Such effect, and yet refuses to discover the Same; and the Said Elizabeth Grant alb pretends, that your orator’s Said brother’s personal estate was not conside rable, or not of Such value as aforesaid; and that your orator’s Said brother was, at his death, indebted on bonds. Securities, book debts, debts by Simple contract, and otherwise to Several persons, in considerable Sums of money; in, or towards Satisfaction of which, she hath applied the sim.e; and that, if any Surplus did, or should remain in her hands on her accounts due to your orator, in respedl of his Said brother’s real and personal estate, that she cannot, nor will not pay the Same, unless she is, by law,
com
i
^ •
#
I 31^)
compelled So to do; and the Said Elizabeth Grant refuses to come to an account with your orator touching the premises.
In tender conjideration w hereos, and for that your orator is remediless in the premis ses, at and by the strict rules of the common-law, and is only relievable in a court of Equity, where matters of this nature are properly cognizable. To the end therefore, that the Said Elizabeth Grant may true and perfect answer make to all and Singular the premises, as fully as if the Same were herein again particularly repeated and interrogated; and, in particular, may fet forth, and discover what lands,
'liouses, and works, your orator’s Said brother, or any in trust for him, was seised or possessed of at the death of your orator’s Said brother; and may Set forth what rents, issues, profits, and advantages of the same, she, or any person or persons by her order, privity, knowledge, of, or for her use, have, or hath had, received, or taken, since the death of your orator’s Said brother; and may also Set forth a particular account when, and of whom she received the Same, and what Sum or Sums of money she hath, hona fide paid, dishursed, or allowed out of, or in respe(5l of your orator’s Said brother’s Said estate, or any, and what parts
there -
'4
n
.* • f
( 312)
thereof; and the times when, and the persons to whom, and for what, and on what account she paid, and allowed the Same; and may also Set forth, and discover what estate, right, title, or interest, she, the Said • ' Elizabeth Grant, hath, or pretended to
claim in, or to your orator’s Said brother’s > „ estate; or any, or what parts thereof either for, or upon account of her dower, jointure, or otherwise; and by what deed. Settlement, or conveyance she hath, or claims any jointure, or other provision, (if any Such there be) out of the Said estate and premises, and vv’hen, and upon what consideration really, and bona fide., Such Settlement or conveyance (if any Such there be) was made; and also what deeds, evidences, and writings the Said Elizabeth Grant hath in her custody, or power, concerning the Said estate and premises, and may discover, and produce the Same, as this Honourable Court shall think sir, and direct
- that the Said Elizabeth Grant may also Set forth what persojial estate your orator’s ssiid brother died possessed of, interested in, or entitled unto; and may Set forth a true and perseds inventory or account thereof, and the fair and true value of the Same, and what part thereof hath come to her hands, power, or possession; and the
par
it.
•
\
( 30)
particulars, kinds, and true values of Such parts of the Same as hath come to her hands, possession, power, privity, or knowledge, or of any person or persons in trust for her, and how she hath administered and dipos ed of the same, and what parts thereof she hath Sold, and to whom, and for how much, or at what values, and if the Samb were the full and true values thereof re fpedbvely; and what Sum, or Sums of money, the Said Elizabeth Grant hath, at any time or times, and when, and of whom had, or received, or raised thereby, and how she hath paid, and applied the Same, or any, or what parts thereof, and when, and to whom, and for what, and upon what account, and when .Such payments as she hath made out of, or in respect of the Said personal estate for debts due from the intestate, or otherwise, were all and every part thereof, really, and bsna fide made by the Said Elizabeth Grant; and whether the moneys by her brought to her account, to be paid out of, or on account of the Said personal estate, were really, and hona fide., paid by her accordingly; and what part of the Said personal estate is yet standing out, and undilposed of, and the particular kinds and true values thereof; and that the Said Elizabeth Grant may come to a fair,
P true,
t
\
I i
s
$
( 3'4)
true, and just account with your orator, toucing his Said brother’s real and personal estate, and what is due, and of right belonging to your orator of the Same, and that your orator be relieved in all and singular the premises, according to equity and good conscience.
And your orator shall ever pray, c.
Thomas Pennyfeather, counsellor, sol licitor, and clerk in Court in this causc.
I desired Mr. Pennyfeather to be as expeditious as he could in having the bill engrossed and filed, as: I had information the lady was upon a treaty of marriage with a merchant of Kingston, a man of a noto rioussy bad character, who had an intention of Sending all the staves of the plantation to a settlement he had bouo stt in a. neighbouring Spanish colony. A fuhpcsna was accordingly forthwith isslied to compel the defendant, Elizabeth Grant, to appear; but the lady was still obstinate, and would not deign to give Mr. Pennyfea* ther’s clerk a civil answer, when he Served her with a subpoena; but abused his master, and the whole profession of the law, with Such a volubility of utterance, that even that pradiser of wrangling and chicanery /
!
( 315)
canery was confounded and astonished; we waited the stated time for her appearance, which she neglected;; affidavit of Service of the writ of fuhpatnay an at -- lachment was issued out against her; and upon non efi inventus., being returned, an attachment with proclamations went forth; Mr. Pennfeather declared she was the most obstinate and refradtory person he ever had to deal with; but did not doubt but that he should at last bring her to reason; as the lady stood out farther in contempt, a commission of rebellion was issued for apprehending her, and bringing her to the common prison of the issand; in the execution whereof the Marshals officers were authorised to break open her doors; but file always had a Servant in the mill top, who gave her notice of the approach of any suspeded person to the house; and as high grumps, from its very name, is denoted to be an elevated place, you may discover a person from a considerable distance; it was therefore found expedient to Send a Sergeant at arms to the lady, which had as little effect as all the preceding process; for Mrs. Grant had retired into the blue mountains with her lover, who used Sometimes to come down to high grumps, to inspedt the bufiness of the plantation; So that we
P 2 at
f
r
( 31^)
at last obtained a Sequestration of the lands and Negroes; which, preventing their pro gress in the manusadture of the Sweet commodity, the lady put in her appearance, and Sent me word, she was willing to settle the matter by arbitration. The award being drawn, was made a rule of court, and the matter adjusted, with great equity, by the arbitrators.
I now Saw myself in possession of a very good plantation; and, to crown my happiness, Lucinda promises, that, in nine months from our nuptials, she will bless me with a pledge of our loves. I have a sort of divination that whispcrs to me, it will be a boy; and, if I guess right, I will here give a sketch of the manner in which he shall be educated.
As Soon as he is born he shall be plunged into cold water, and his head washed in it every • morning, till he is three years old. He shall be dressed in a loose, cool robe, which shall neither bind nor confine him; for it is undoubtedly to the injudicious method of dressing infants, the many distortions and deformities we meet everywhere, are chiefly owing.
Lucinda has promised to show herself at least equal to the tigress or lioness in maternal affection, by Suckling her own
off"
"/

( 30)
off spring; a duty So incumbent upon every mother, of whatever rank, condition, or denomination, that I never yet have heard one argument, of the least weight, endeavoured to be urged against it by those, who, in all probability, have racked their imaginations, to find out Some colourable pretence to excuse their ov</n shamesul neglect.
IS Lucinda, however, should be prevented by sickness, or accident, from discharging this natural obligation, my Son shall not be Sent out, and put under the care of a mercenary nurse, whole want of fensibi lity and tenderness, in putting away her own child, in order to take mine, for the lake of a Small pecuniary emolument, would render entirely unfit for the office. Neither shall it be dry nursed, as that method is generally allowed to be extremely hazardous. What course then will you take? He shall have a quadruped for his nurse. The idea, you will say, is singular;; I know it to be pradlicable; and I maintain it to be wholsomer than his living upon any other milk than that of his mother.
Mr. Durlach, who made the Speedy tour of Italy with me, in quality of my travel
P 3 ling
I)
ling tutor, assured me, that, in his journey through the provinces of Roussillon, Bearne, Navarre, and thole other distridls, amongst the Pyrenean mountains, he has frequently Seen (and it Ss the general cus tom of thole countries) children Suckled by goats; that ani 1, Soon after it had dorgot its kid, and was accustomed to its Substitute, would come regularly to the. cradle where the child lay, and if happen ing to be at a Small distance from the house, brousing upon wild thyme and other Sweet herbs, the child should cry, well knowing the Sound of its voice, the goat would sty to it with the most affedionate eagerness, and ap peas it by giving it Suck. When the children can stand alone, it is natural for the peasants in those parts, to go into the fields and vineyards, leaving no creature to take care of the child but the goat its nurse. Thus much for stickling.
I agree with Rousseau, that he must cry; but, at the Same time, I will take care that it shall be as Seldom as possible; but I promise that philosopher, when he falls down, or hurts himself, he shall not have an unnecessary dread impressed upon his tender mind, by the apprehension that shall be painted upon my face, or by too Ipee
dy
4
f
*
( 3'9)
dy an assistance. When he is a year old, it will be necessary to begin the method I design to teach him Latin: The hint I have taken from the facetious, the easy and elegant Montaigne, whom I would go at least as far to see, as Tristram Shandy would to See his favourite Cervantes. When I am reading Montaigne, I cannot help thinking T am conversing with an old man of
o o
erudition, the utmost chearfulness, and a frankness and candour that never fails to asset us with Social and exhilerating feelings. The way his father took to instrudl him in the Latin tongue was as follows:
“The expedient my father found out, “for this was, that in my infancy, and be fore I began to Speak, he committed “me to the care of a German, who since“ “a famous physician in France, to“ “ignorant of our language, but very ' “fluent, and a great critic in Latin. This
“man, whom he had fetched out of his “own country, and whom he entertain“ “with a very great salary for this end, had me continually in his arms; to whom “there were also joined two others of the “Same nation, but of inferior learning, to attend me, and Sometimes to relieve him; “who all entertained me with no other
P 4 Ian
4
( 320)
language but Latin. As to the rest of “his family, it was an inviolable rule, that neither himself, nor my mother, man,
“nor maid, should Speak anything, in “my company, but Such Latin words as “every one had learned to gabble with me.
It is not to be imagined how great an ad“ “this proved to the whole family;
my father and my mother, by this means,
“learning Latin Sufficiently to understand, “it perfe(5uy well, and to Speak it to Such “a degree, as was Sufficient for any need“
“use; as also those of the Servants “did, who were most frequent with me;
“to be short, we did latin it at Such a rate, that it overflowed to all the neighbouring “villages, where there yet remain, that ‘‘ have established themselves by custom,
“Several Latin appellations of artisans,
“and their tools.
“As for what concerns myself, I was a above six years of age before I understood either French or Perigording, any more “than Arabic; and, without art, book,
“grammar, or precept, whipping, or the “expense of a tear, had, by that time,
“learned to Speak as pure Latin as my “master himself; if (for example) they “were to give me a theme after the college
“fashion,
«
¥
()
“Sashion, they gave it to others in French; “but as to me, they were of necessity to “give it in the worst Latin, to turn it in“ “that which was pure and good. And “Nicholas grouchi.y who writ a book Pe Co“ “romanorumwilliam Guirentes, “who has writ a Comment upon Aristotle; “George Buchanan, that great Scotch ‘^poet; and Marcus Antonius Muretus, “(whom both France and Italy have ac“ “Sor the best of his time) my “domestic tutors, who all of them often' “told me, that I had, in my infancy, that “language So very fluent and ready, that “they were afraid to enter into difcourle “with me; and, particularly, Buchanan, “whom I Saw attending the late Marshal “De Brissac, then told me, that he was a“ “to write a treatise of Education, the “example of which he intended to take “from mine; for he was then tutor to the “Count De Brissac, who afterwards prov“ “So valiant and So brave a gentleman. “He Ibon after continues:
“He (my father) Sent me at six years “of age to the college of Guienne, at that “time the most flourishing in France; and “there it was not poshble to add anything “to the care he had to provide me the
“most
V
vs

( 322)
“most able tutors, with all other circum“ “of education, reserving also Seve “ral particular rules contrary to the col“ “practice;; So it was, that, with “all thde precautions, it was a college still. “My Latin immediately grew corrupt, of “vrhich aiso, by discontinuance, I have “since lost all manner of uie. The first
V
“thing that gave me any taste for books, was the pleasure I took in reading the “fables of ovid’s Metamorpholes; and “with them I was So taken, that, being “but Seven or eight years old, I would steal “from all other diversions to read them; “both by reason that this was my own na“ “language, the easiest book that I “was acquainted with, and, for the subject“ “most accommodated to the capacity “of my age. As for Lancelot du Lac, Amadis de Gaule, Huon de Bordeaux, “and Such trumpery, which children are “most delighted with, I had never So much “as heard their names, no more than I “now know what they contain; So exact“ “the discipline in which I was brought “up.”
I wrote, not long ago, to a friend at Prague, and to another at Vienna, to Send me three persons capable of executing my
pro
__#
()
project, which are more easily to be found in those places, than in any other part ot Europe. I have often lamented, that maupertius’s idea of a Ijatin town was never put in practice; O heavens' how much time, how many blows and scourges, and bow infinite an expense would it net five? My fon shall neither go to School, or the University, any more than rous seau’s Emelius, or locke’s young Gentleman. His health shall be one of my principal attentions; for I am very sensible of the short description of a happy state in this world, a Sound mind in a sound body.
I will neither have his feet wetted in cold water, or his shoes bored to let in water; but he shall go without shoes or stockings till he is six years of age, as the children in the remote villages do. He shall certainly learn to swim; but I shall trouble myself very little whether he is costive, or otherwise, notwithstanding Mr. locke’s particularity in this article. Lie never shall be struck, neither V ill I accustom him to be awed. He shall be treated amicably from the beginning, and learn early to think me his best friend. He shall be inured to all hardships; and shall be taught
very '
4
#
< A
\
( 324)
very Soon to fence, and shoot with a pifi tol, by which means I shall be Sure of his courage, which is very properly defined by montesquiou, to be a persuasion of our own strength; not that I would have him quarrehbme, but he shall always confider thole arts purely as defensive, as well as rousseau’s Emelins.
He shall read and study robinson Cru so; it is now transtating into Latin for his ule. But when he understands Greek, he shall not prise Elerodotus above ail o there authors; 1 would as Soon have him read Glanville upon witches. zenophon’s Cyrus shall be his favourite book; but I wish he did not make Cyrus laugh so much like an Idiot.,
When he has learned Latin of the Germans, he shall have no other tutor but myself; and I will, at the Same time, be the companion of his studies and pursuits, and my own example shall rather be the incitement to his application, than my precept or advice. Rousseau and Locke go into contrary extremes, and, in my humble o pinion, are both wrong; the former would give his pupil none but Sensible ideas till he is past twelve years of age: At eighteen, Says he, he shall not know that he
has
f
I
♦
__
rv.
( 325)
has a Soul; the latter would store him early with as many as possible. His capacity should be consuited; for there are Some, who are as capable of conceiving abstradt and complex notions, and following a concatenation of ideas, at twelve years of age, as others are at eighteen or twenty.
He shall certainly learn a trade; but I do not intend to make him a joiner, like Emelius, nor a gardener; the former is an employment that would keep him too long in one place, and generally under cover from the air or weather : The latter is a trade that encourages luxury in the world; and for that reason, as Rousseau justly observes, to be avoided. As to perfuming, varnishing, graving, and the polishing optical glasses, they are entirely out of the question. He shall learn husbandry; that is to Say, 1 will Set him the example myself, and we will go hand in hand in that art, and advance step by step. We will hire a farm of ten pounds a year, and he shall begin by driving a team, while I hold the plough, which I shall make him sensible is necessary, as I shall be the stronger of the two; therefore the more able to perform that businessjwhen he has •'^ischarged the Subordinate
\
I
\
I
»
( 226)
ordinate, inserior office of drivinsr the hor ses, for at least four years, he shall hen have the honour of holding the plough, which he shall be taught to look upon as Such.
The accounts of the dishursements and profits of the farm shall be exactly kept by both in Separate books; and at the Same time that wc acquire a knowledge and skill in agriculture, we shall likewise get a knowledge of the method of bookkeeping, or merchants accounts; in which he shall be thoroughly versed. When we are masters of the common method of farming, and know perfectly the nature of Soil, vegetation, the seasons of Sowing, the nature of grains, and the common received notions relating to husbandry, then we will begin to make experiments; but in all our experiments we shall, in the Same piece, and in the Same Sort of Soil, continue to pradlise in the old way upon an equal quantity of land, taking particular care to make no unreasonable allowance, either in favour, or against any System. Our agriculture shall always Serve as a relaxation to our Severer studies, and we shall endeavour to make them Serve, not only as an ease, but an illustration to one another.
It
( 327)
'It is necessary, when he arrives at years of maturity, that he should know the different manners and customs of the Several nations; and the Same person, who was the companion of his studies and rural labours, shall likewise be his attendant on his travels. He shall not have a Spaniard for his governor, notwithstanding the excellent method in which persons of that nation travel. Indeed, I candidly own, that I never heard of a spaniard’s travelling, nor ever met with any person that did. We shall generally go in a stagecoach, or diligence, never post, but very frequently on foot. We shall stay sometimes in great cities, but more frequently in final 1 ones; and shall pass the greatest part of our time in the republican governments; in which, however, our abode shall be proportioned to the degree of liberty they enjoy; a pure democracy shall take up more of our attention than a mixture; and a mixed government more than an aristocracy.
FINIS.
X
\
%
5
V
* % 9
t
0
The Reader, it is hoped, will exciifc the many typographical Errors in this Book, which have been occasioned by the author’s Distance from the press.
1 '
ERRATA.
PAGE 36. line 16. for tiejidertijjimi read de jiratifjinii. — pi 2. 1. 13 and 14. iox Concioufnefs tqzaconjcioufnejs. — ^. 17. 1. 12. forreader. —
1. 18 da\&fhe. — p. 42. between the Lines 25 and 26 add the farrowing father nvept, and Jaid. — p. 47. 1.
18. for Buenos read Buyenos. — 'p. 54. 1. 15. deal his. p. 61. 1. 16. for handjom read hajid/ome. — p. 65. 1.
4. deal them.'ih. 1. 19. for read her. r p. 71. 1. 9. Weljbxttdi Welch. — p. 128. I. 3. for of read at. — p. 141. 1. 29. between the Words cwrf' and had, add njoe. — p. 163. 1. 17. deal of ‘vengeance. — \h. 1. 18.
Acltthe. — p. 167.1. 30 for acciden vesidi accidint. — p. 171. 1. II for underfunding read underfundings.
-- p. 190 1. 10. add ofhtiorqbed. -- p. 194. 1. 6.
for intercourfes he read intercourse foe. — — p. 220. I.
17. for Scene rtzdi Seen. — p 229. 1. 13. for oratories read oratorios.” — p. 242. 1. 19. for Guanna read Juanna. — 'p. 243. 1. 9. for Guanna read Juanna. p. 248. 1. 17. between out and underfandingvtz.'ox.s a comma. — p. 250.1. 22. for Souza a njohifer dresser read souza’s njffker dresser— — 252.1. 24. for euser read njoere. — p. 243. 1. 9. for Guanna read fuanna', for d’hara read d’lbara. — p. 273. 1. 5. 5. for old
read told. p. 278. 1. 15. for know read knenv. —
p. 280. 1. 23. for ad venture read adventures, — p, 298.1. 16. deletf»</, put the comma asters.
