perfidious F — - 
LETTERS 
From a 
NOBLEMAN ' Two ׳ladies, 
Under the borrow’d Names of 
Cofydonfilarinda c I : ؛ 
With the 
Ladies Answers: 
: * Printed in the Year, 17.1. 
Price ، /. 6 d. 
-■» — - -- -- -- - - 
ء 
X fardfkwiuimsrlfr 
SIR) 
am some ء ![Mi confess e؛؛ ual؛confider the u ، ؛ of Dedicators, who لع0لأءح١ 
they have. finii ج 
mi؛ .!?their Works, pitch Az Patron 
The Epijlle 
Patron to whom they may ascribe all the Virtues or their Hero : or make him an Iaftanceu ٥f all the Perfection and Excellencies of that Piece ؛ by this common Judgement of Dedications, a hasty Reader may be apt to think, I affront my Patron, by engaging him in the defence of a Book wherein I have endeavoured to fet off the Baieneis and Ingratitude of some Men in their proper Colours ؛ hereby making 
V r : : N - ؛.־i 
Dedicatory. 
all Mankind my Enemies ؛ for Strangers will look upon it as a Satyr leveld at the whole Sex, and my Friends be dilfatisfy’d with the Protection of what seems writ׳ against themselves, and ought rather to be laid at the Feet of some difconfo late Lady : But the contrary will soon appear, and١ that twas this very Consideration made me pitch upon you, as the only Man whose Virtues I could oppose to the Vices of 
A 5 don; 
7؟he Ebijffe׳ 
don; thereby ihewing the World I did not involve the whole Sex in his guilt for how many Crimes soever I made him guilty of. intake sufficient amends by giving an Instance of twice as many V ertues in you. 
٠ Condon ’sconquelfs were not rais'd׳ like other hero’s, upon the Foundation, or by force of his Noble Exploits,, but rather by die Practises of a Subtle Man upon a Credulous Woman, and.. ٠ ٠ ٠ ٠,, ٠· the 
; ״· ٠״٠־; ■··٠־■׳■־٠·: ׳-; ■־٠؛٠ 
١١ 
‘dedicatory. 
the growth of his Suceeis has been influenced only by a seeming Greatness, which ierv’d to dazzle the Eyes of the weak lighted. and lead thejr، astray from the Paths of Virtue: but, Sir, who ever would pursue thole he roick Paths leading to true Honour, need no longer be at alofs for a Noble Guide, if they know you. 
Having thus, in some: measure, removed the Objections that but too readily 
The Epistle 
Iy offer’d themselves again{؛ any reception this poor Piece might expeit from Men; and given some rea fons for my choosing you in particular, as the moil fit Person, whose Noble ge nerofity might afford a fe eure Retreat and safe Refuge to the diftrefs’d clarin da, give me leave, Sir, to acquaint you also with the Reasons, why above all People in the World, she should find that Protection she desires in you. - 
’ I is. 
! Dedicatory٠ ’tis Title enough to the Protection of a Moble Generous Soul, to ffand realy in need of it : The poor Clarinda certainly has. this Plea, and as for your part, Sir, you are not now to be diftinguiih’d. She was betray’d by a Man Base and ungrateful, one whole per fon, with borrowed L uiire and affected Charms, in ihar'd her Heart; but fhe’s now introduc’d to a Man of real Worth, one whose 
Mind 
؛the Epiflte 
Mind is illustrated with Virtue, the Beauty and Majesty of which can't so much as be thought of without Love and Veneration .٠ In Short, to recover that good Opinion of Mankind which ihe lost by Cory don, tis neceftary ihe be acquainted with you, nor need ihe fear a cold Reception, where Honour and Affability make their constant Residence. 
To 
Dedicatory! ׳ 
To. Conclude, Sir in. your favourable Entertain وءأل٠س ine is. more happy than if ihe never had been tftfaerwife, .and'the Good؛ neis you Upiverfaily diffuse 
Foruneotn: ifri؟؛g٩!^ but sweeten the;; عي 
ةةةةهجس 
٢er, so great.may ¿ءلآ d joynag heartily in con tributinv what they can to your happinecs, as they do 
in 
The Epijlie, cc. ٠ in a just Admiration of you؛ and may this, and every new Year, augment the Bleffiiigs of the past, which are the Wiines of, | 
four mojl Obedient ٠ n ffutri 
pil 
(i) 
LETTERS 
From a 
NOBLE Lor 
mistress؛ 
Under the borrow’d Names of 
Corjdon. ثا\\ة curiniit.. Letter). lo €اعو٣لا. 
₪tbou Treafur« of my Sof! call thee־? what Epithet find tender, -- enough to express my une٠iuall’d 
ج; إ p B y tnd 
C 2) 
Fondness ٠؛ My poor trembling heart ( a young pra&itioner in these Affairs, and only taught by you) doubts every Expteifion, left it want power; or toreveal my Flames, or keep yours ؛ever burning. Be till, thou truiling Flatterer, he will be always mine : he is too Noble, too Generous, to betray; and I am happy, happy above my Sex : One piercing Look or falling Accent from his charming Tongue, gives greater Bliss than all the stupid World can know; one f.ft hour of ®elting Love outweighs the Loss of Parents, Family, and Fame. 
Oh, my loved Lord, why did the created Powers form thee lb divine i each aiding Angel lend a Grace to fi٠ niuf the bright work, and ilamp the glorious Hero supernatural. Oh, I rave 1 and fixing all my Heaven on thee, my doting Love grows up to Adoration. 
You bid. me write of myself, my ؛health, if I ؛ liked my Solitude, and each minute Particular: Alas! how can I deicqpd from Extanes to Trifles 
caret bat you.; ؛|is not wcirthv L obey: The place؛ai؛/c0iged pieafes! as mias I defrretobe pleaied when Absence readers taste even the Coriveniencies: of life ةج1 and Joys than ail Com. 
11¿ pany, thciraucsrare; lost my ؛ pt in thoughtas i؛١vr so ؟on only ^leftions' are, .When 'the Post how often 'I may. lend? ح comes in Oh Write to me, my Condon (for foe 'to callyej؛i think you gave jpe lea write to me quickly left I grow ad with thinking, lest Grief destroys.. you have lo often fwoin does poffeis, whidilpreferve alone for you. oil give me a Letter, that I may read it 0, ’er and o’er a s, kifs it, blush at my؟۶fand tim؟٤h Folly, put it in my Bosom, and' caij it You, .for I Would have it very You.' 
Let it be only Truth, and sure Truth an^you are one. What do you do at Court? How pafs your Eienlngs now after the Duty oer? Tell'me all, '؛ e, and then you never؟ be just like .nd؛ will know when to ؛ - 
( 4 ؛ 
Qh those dying Eyes! at parting, Bow often has the dear Reflection renewed the hilling Transports? Well, you love me, I am sure you do $ and with that pleased Thought I leave ye, Farervel, Yet I muit go on: Oh love and pity me. Now־ adieu. wou’d you had heard that Sigh. Aelieu.. ١ 
LET. 
LETTER II 
Corydon to Clarinda. j 
יours, my charming Garinda^ I receiv’d at One this Morning, having just left my Lord ٠ — and the Marquis of — ٠ at the Rummer, with whom I drank your Health : The Toast was every Mans Inclination, and you was mine by Jove; a thousand times I wiih’d you present, io contriv’d, as to appear inviftble to all but me: then I grew uneasy with my Company, all their Diicourfes were impertinent, and each returning Giafs became as nauseous as the Embraces of a Woman in the absence of ٠my lov’d Clarinda would be to G. rydon. Your Letter, my Dear, 1׳ read it o’er and o’er, and printed i Kiiles on every Line; and when it blufil’d, poor Rogue, I hid it in my Bosom, and then methought it whifper’d, as I remember you lome. 
B 3 times 
ز 6) 
timeswoud, /# Life! my coryjottf The Devil take, Cuilom; Were ع؛, not for that, you might be here with' me, or .1 there with you, and no no tice taken. Why flioud Generous Souls be fettered to the dull Rules of Custom?? butcuikt makes a Crime;, and Fools are ilill the most cenforjous. ؛ A curse on. their prying. Curiosity. i can let Tradesmen cheat Parsons get drunk, and Wives Cuckold their Husbands, without the least Concern; then why should the... busy World di.urb our Loves? But no matter; I hope a little 'time will re inflate us in our former Tranquillity. I doubt not but when you are known to, be, in the Country,, Same, who yery often ؛errs, will be؛ thought to have belied you. i٠m sure if Lovers have any Friends above, yourrepu ration will.؛be their Care. ٠h howl iliou’d rcioyce to lee that day when ١ve might hourly jneet with frequent Opportunities of renewing our fierce Embraces, when we., might give our selves. over to Loving, not ־(ear the 
watch 
7 ؟) 
watchful jealous eye. Believe me; ״. Clarinda, I have tailed no real Joy fmce you left me, nor is it poilible I ihou’d till you return. i’m glad to7־ find you like your Solitude; for that’s״ a friend to Love. My Dear, I cannot tell you how I spend my time, only this, that i’m lure I pafs none so pleasantly as that in Writing to you. I am all easy when I think on thee,, and that’s every moment; nay, I break forth in very Poetry ؛ 
Oh, in what Raptures did I lately ham f Now, with what Anguish I your Ahfence mourn! 
Think of those Joys believe these Rains, and then. 
1 Forget me, deaf Clarinda, if yen cm, 
׳ Ns, thou hleft Angel of my Eyes and ٠ Soul! 
Nothing thy constant Faith can ever remove, 
This Thought does evry anxious Doubt contr'ouj, 
And joins nty Heart to thine in bonds of mutual hove٠ 
B؛؛،¿. So 
٠ a! ٥ ؛§i 
(8) 
S may just Heavn its Blejftngs deal to me, 
As I perform the Vows I've made to thee. 
Thus, my Dear, I conclude; and beg you to be content, and rest as certain of my Love as of the returning Day; and believe, you never shall have cause to love less 
Your Faithful 
Qorydou٠ 
..,, ..LET. - 
(■0) 
; ٠ LKTTER III 
c/arinda to Corydon. 
יF after mad Impatiencies, furious Wiilies, and wild De sires, when the Bleiling is receiv’d I ihou’d chide my Cory don i wou’d lie not think it ilrange > yet foi mud : Your Letter bears too loose a Style for my herbicr Love; with more Care and greater Study you made your first Approaches to my virgin heard؛ ؛ Oh Corydon! what a Curse is this on Womankind! Your Dotage is all before a Conqueil, Ours begin when you are Bankrupts. How came I to say that, the fattheil from my Thoughts? cou’d I believe thy vast flock of Love does or will receive the lead Decay? The bare Apprehenfton would kill me, and death’s fatal Stroke prevent some greater Ruin. 
Remember, Cory dm, you cannot have Forgot it; yet Till repeat the 
B 5. pleasing 
pleasing Story ؛ The linage always, fills nay Mind, each Beauty itroveto captivate my Cory don, and every Dart was aimed at you; my Eyes alone avoided you; I heard your Praises all the Day, your godlike Mein and glorious Actions; I fear’d your Power, apd Hood upon my Guard; found your Deiign; for 1 ne’er look’d up but I beheld you upon my Face; or ir you came near in the Crowd, where daily we see each other, how ١vou’d you ugh ؟ and־ when by any accident your hand was offered., it trembled so, that I changed Colour too. These were the public Signs of Love : but oh! at length, with never ceaiing Diligence tracing my Steps with endless Care, ٠ Cory dm found me alone in the Closet of the — ٠ What did you then? Down at my feet the lovely Hero fell, and cry’d, inhumane Fair, What do you mean by perfecting thus your Slave > If : your Resolve is Hate, end with my Life my Sufferings; for whilst I live, I muss, I will pursue you with my 
، Love, 
l٠؛ve. Say, Corydon, was I nor dif crcet? 1 broke from thy Arms. Which grafpt fny Knees, without one Syllable ir ^nfwcr, ad fled to my: Coiii. panions, who asked me if I had ibe'a a Ghost, my Surprise was such ؛ you followed, saw the pale confunoft/and better skill’d than poor unwary I, made, I fear, a too kind coflitru&ion ؛ then. My Lord, what pains youtook to make a friend]hip wherever I did, that I could visit ilo where bat I found my Cory don. 
This gave you frequent Opportunities; and twas at my dear Lucinds Apartments first I heard with patience what you had to fay: and oh! when Women liilen to the softening Tale of Love, like parlying Towns beiieged, they seldom fail the wiih’d Surrender. V l٠»٥t : ·׳.٠ 
What ami doing, foolish Creature!٠* Why does this lov’d Remembrance of my pair Weakness hang on myjp£ **f Well؟ I have done. 
now hear the Difference of our present Lives. You are'in the m id it 
” ■ ־־ ؛ ·٠ of 
of all your Friends, in the. midii of all Diyerfions; 1 baniih.d from all, knowing no living Creature but my desiring no Companion but w٩man٠ my Book, cheriihing no Thoughts but those of thee: if I walk, inquiil·. tive Gazers watch me: then reclufed such is my So ״I never peep abroad litude. But my Love will come and cheat me there’s another Hope to strengthen my Courage when I must pronounce that melancholiy Word 
Adieu٠ 
... A 11k b L; V ؟٠١y٠ 
׳־; .٠ ·٠. '־٠ - ‘ -٠ · ־ -. ٠ ٠ : ٠ ٠-. A ٠ ·١; f ' -- ־٠ : 5 
، ٠٠·.'؟■ ·׳ ״■־<٠׳ ؛ «٠٩ ?١- ٠j\jl 
٠١ ٠,. ٠ - \"'^־٠_ ־v ־- sj.r .؛-،; '¿؛i،<٥٠٠،؛٦ 
v׳ ־: ־; ״־׳~ ^٠: ٠ 
LETTER IV : ״ Cory don to c/arinda. ^' ؛ T١^ H Y ail these Doubtr and Fears, " my Love? Why this needless Repetition? Does my Clarinda think I am grown lb fiupid, so lifelels, for foi mull be when I forget the kail Particular of what has pail between us, thole soft Embraces, moaning Sighs and melting Tears, which were too precious to fall unobferv’d, are ilijl fresh in the Memory of Cory don. What mail 1 say more? I think there is nothing more of consequence to say, except I entertain you with Truths ob٠ yious to every eye; as, that, tisday when the Sun ihines, ’ and when؛ he’s gone ’tis Night; or, that I love you dearer than all the Women in the World, as great a Truth as either of the former,, and ought to be as well known to. you. For my part, I think the telling of this over and over, as p some 
Tome Men do their Passions, ought to be tiresome to Women of your Nicety, and as nauseous to the Mind, as Meat often dreil to the Stomach : for to be always in the highroad of making Loye, a Man muit Bake, Boil, Roail, Halli, and Mince Ids Love, to find Variety for his Mistress, Who perhaps does not think, becatife ti brought .warm to her it has so often been cool d by another, and only toil up again for her Palate. These common Practises of Love ought to be below a Woman Of your Settle, whose t>elicacy ihoifd refiili a Plate (tho١ no bigger than a Saucer) of something new, above those vail di(h٠ es of repeated Cramb.؛ lam now in haste;; juit going to wait upon the King!׳ yet you see i״prefer Love to all, and stay to write; this long Letter, when it might be easy for me to tear what: I have done, then tell you vvitcily؛ ihf$ ؛letter is■־an Emblem of my Heart rent׳ and torn for you... Meet trifling, ahd ought nefmore to pafs for Love than Childrens Toys 
for 
for Riches, or a gilded lum؛> of base Metal for true Sterling. there’s something JB true Love diftingurfk able from afiedfced Pailions, something of Excellence which can’t be diicerifa but by a Trial that the Counterfeit can’t undergo, an intrmfick Value that h as something more thari Gilding or Varnish to see it off؛ and fucli is mine for you. Though. ١vc mult lament the Misfortune of being parted, My Dear, yet remember we arc to meet again with the greater Pleaftire. The Tears, ٠tis true; were on you، fide only; but believe me, I had my share of Trouble too: and give me leave to tell my dear Clarinda, that ihe chides Without reason ؛ fof if؛ffie confider?d, ibe؛ would nnd it imppm.־ bie that a. Man in Public Bufineft, ‘ as I am, can exempt ، my self flotrt Company always. For my part}־ I drag my self from one place to ؛a¿¿״, there, and meet with ٠. frequent Ocean؛.· ons of being Uneafie؛ but then. the Thoughts of yoil, 1 My Bear, and' oi your Love, relieves my weary Mind ٠ 
؛ i ٠ for 
٠٥) 
for sure I may endure a troublesome World as long as I am happy in you, who to me is the best Delight of m Nature made such dear soft, engaging Creatures as you to reconcile that part of Mankind that can deserve you by loving you! to the dif quiet of the World;; it ،would Tearce be worth our while to ٠lve־£lie:; ye fleraay L paid a Viijt to my Lady. — out of refpedf to you My 'Dear, and for the sake of an Opportunity to talk of her who employ sialtmy ft houglits. She was very jnq$i%i$ e, what was become of you, ' and : laid a thousand kind things of you, and pr١؟ft me very hard to know how to write to you f but I did؛ not tell her, nor will, till I have, a con١n؛uffi٠o from you to do io. From thence I took a Walk over the Park, where I ran over in my Mind everything that pleases me in you; your Fondness, that, is irre fiilibly engaging, g and appears unde tign’d; your faithful Love, that lam convinc’d will never alter; the pretty things you say, and those you write. 
and 
and those thouiand Charms that pof feis every part of you; in short, My Dear, you are the Book I dudy now, and I will not quit you to range after any imaginary Pleasure or iordid Profit. I cannot tell why Love, which is the moil Natural, as well as Nobled Pailion, ihou’d not fit our Minds for the bed things: it enlarges the Soul, and I fancy my self better in several refpedrs. as well as happier, fmce I knew you whom I love lo dearly, lb ١ dearly, that, even you can hardly love me so much; and nothing in my life ever pleas’d me so well as my loving you. Re double) redouble, Amour une pain ft cheer. Adieu, my Love, I shall expert a Letter from you next Poil; and pray believe that I am.... Sure I am — ٠٠ Yours entirely. 
Since I writ this I received both the Enclosed; which I send in hopes they may divert my solitary Dear، Adieu٠ 
LETTER 
(it) 
׳; L£TT; |!Rي'.ق; يا; : ام١ ־ 
minatocorydon. 
I) lord. 
N spite of yr Denials, I have! 
little airy Damon traces your$a$i_ ons even into your very Cabinet : now this Familiar credibly informs me, you know how to send a Letter to my Clcvrinda, i’d take the gheft’s Wo for a thouia^ Pound, therefore p.y do not fail. 
. ٠ ي إ^: : '.٠; ٠: : i ١ 
¡¡¡¡¡¡¡1!?;; /.; I III 
; 
،دول 
LETTER VI ز 
Luciruto cumk 
В: Нои little Thief thou firilyou blit that I forgive you; the you steal your self away; a Grime to Friendfoip I cannot pardon... They tell us you are. in the Norththe .World: believes it؛ but those Difgui. fos are too thin for one who loves lihe me. T read ing٠^؛٥«’s Triumphant eyes a better Fate than your Absence at that Distance in that cold Region; and rigid ..relations would be no Friends tothe.heity he adores. Hear Clarinda, by our past Vows ؛ حever laftin^ Friendfoip, ة me hear from thee; for all thegourtand Wrald is insipid to me since you have left it. Write to me, ٠ Dear, because ل would not have ־the adorable justly ־call’d ungrateful, which foe must be if foe forgets so faithful a Friend as / ٠٠ 
( 2 X)J 
LET E R VII 
Ciannda to Cory dun, 
■rour Pacquet came seasonably to wake, me out of forrie melan cholly Reflections which Conquer my Resolves against ’em, and too often seize my Soul, nay they begin to have an eflex upon my Body; nor will my Youth, and that strong Cordial Love, long prefer ve the Jewel Health; but your Letter has rous’d the darling Passion, and now I feel no Pain: Charming Pleasures ihrill through. my Veins, and Tides of Joy cheer my beating Heart, ، ٠ I am also pleased and surprised at my Lucinds Letters; and be allured ٠ My Lord your Visiting her infinitely obliges me; for if ever true ¥riend fhip pofleit the Hearts of Women, the Sacred Gueit is lodged in ours. 
Yet so nice my Notions are of Love, I denied my seif any Joy but 
what 
what you create: forbear converiing with that precious, peculiar, only valued Friend, left the little God should be offended if 1 took one Thought, from himbut her kind Reproach, and your Encouragement, liave؛ revived friendfhip’s Ardour toward that charming fair one, I have writ to her, and lent you the Copy, for I was aihamed (My Souls Bliss) to let it go thro’, your hands, tho’ ’tis to my dearest Friend. I iliall grow bolder. I do remember well, when ffrft I gave my Cory don leave to write, how I trembled at the wifli’d Receipt: My Spirits fired my Face with Bluihes, then sunk into pale Confusion;; tho’ alone, long١l feared to break the Seals. Now advanced in Courage I write to thee ؛ I call thee Life and Soul, and all those fond Words I uled to bluili to read. I prithee do not give it b liarih a Name as Chiding, when I tell my Fears. The Merchant whose rich veftel is at Sea, if all his treafure’s there, does he not dread a Storm? You are my only Treasure; 
׳-; j■; ؛. ׳؛ Tem. 
■ 
( 2 2) 
Tempers or Allurements may ruin hefoíeís me; the serene Face of beau try, or the Frowns of Power, each wou’d destroy my Peace. Oh would niy Hero quit the glorious Pomp and Dangers of the Court for my calm Harbour, for Solitude and me, how many various ways i’d find to charm! Sometimes, like the arcadianny mphs, Fd range the Groves and Plains, whilst flowery Chaplets crown’d my flowing Hair: sometimes! Oh Fool! this is Romantic all, as old Trofptr foes the day dreams of a Maid in Love. You are fix.d in glory’s Circle; I sunk, never more, I fear, to rise; no matter, give to the Ambitious Honour, to church men Luxury and Power, to Mrfers Wealth, to fighting Kings War and Conqueit, to poor Ciar inda your eternal Love, and my Reward exceeds all theirs. You bid me write next Poit; you see I do. Next, and every Poít, I pray do you remember, and fear not, your 
Clarinda, 
LET. 
C 23) 
LETTER, VIII j؛j 
ctarinaa to Lucim, 
HE Lunatic, my dear Lucina٠ flies all Humane Conversation; and that is belt; for Follies that are incurable should not be exposed: But you. that take the pains to search a wretch that owns her felfpofleft, what mull you expect from her degraded thoughts r Reason I have banifh’d, and then you’ll guess what I am a Slave to. My Letters ٠· will be only filled with Ravings, still hinting at the cause, the lovely cause, that will excuse me, that mu ft excuse me to Lucina. She knows his Charms, has heard his Vows, and often whispered Pi tty to my yielding Soul. Oh be kind to him and me J see him often, and sometimes talk of her who always thinks of you, and whom you will ever find the trueit of her Sex. 
Love 
. ״ \ ٠־ ٠־ ■ .٠־ _. _ ٠ ־٠ -.׳. ■ ■ ٠. _ ־ _ _ ٠، 
c24 >٠ 
Love and Friend hip are the Idols of. Clarindds Heart. 
LET T E R - IX 
٠ Corydon to Clarmda٠ I 
bure Heaven has no pity for us that Love! If it had, we should not have been parted thus long. I had flown to your Arms ere this, if the cursed Clog of bulinefs had not hinder’d. Let me beg of you to be contended for a little time, and you ihali see I will contrive someway that we may be almoit always together. Did you but know the impatience I am under when I am from you, it would as much convince you of my Love, as the pleasure I take when I am with you, which is not to be counterfeited. Ask your own Heart, whether it does not think I am in earneit in what I say to you; sure it is so much my secret Friend, that it will tell you I 
love 
love you. I will certainly he With youthe beginning of next Week, an lye_a Night where you please 'to dil pofe of me. I hope y ou have per. fedly recover’d your Journey, which! call the. Pilgrimage of Love. I am 0؛ ل٤اtm؟nt r evety pail my Dear־ ؛els. By thy. Mouth,, thy h؛ir, ־thy Eyes, and evcry other Charm, icoii jure thee to take care of thyielf. Be ea/ie and coptented, fecuie of ׳my Lovel and of every ־thing that is iti my Power. Oh, thou hast melted my spujand Iihall never forget thee. Could you be 'so ־kind to quit all for jpe? Cau you deny youffelf all o there Pleasures 'for those few that, are in my Power to give ج Can you for־״ get the Splendour of a Court for me? Iknow you can d־o all this ־ ؤand in ؟turn, lean only fayl love you. Next Week, ־ nay, the beginning of next vveek, weihallmeet, my dear Life. Can there' be a tranfport fancied greater, wben I shall press thole Lips and wand־er over that world of beau ty. ’since we parted how dully: does 
C time 
( 2 6) 
١ time move on? But vve must learn to bear abience. tho’ we can never make it easy to us. Separation will always be, as Cowly says of Life, an incurable Disease. How do you ipend your time now, my Dear? Let me know bow, you generally divide the Day, that I may iometimes have the pleasure of thinking what you are doing, so apt are we to be miitaken in our Judgement of our felvesr, we do not know the Force of our Pafiions till we have the experience of their itrength. I wiili any Man could draw the Temper and Dispositions of my Mind, as well as the Completion and Features of my Face, then you should have a Piture of that, my Dear, where״ in you lliould see my love to you had taken a full poifeilion of my Heart, and that, that govern’d every other Pailion. I have just now been reading over all your Letters to me, and I find it is a good way to move and enereale the love that lies in the Heart; and therefore,, my Dear, I enjoin you to read over, all mine, from the firii 
( 27) 
1 ever writ to you to the lall, and put ’em into the order of time they were writ .in,, and then, My Dear. run over in your mind all the moil remarkable Pailages that have happen’d since we knew one another, ؛ and whatsoever has shown my fond nefs to you moil, think upon that moil. Thus, My Dearest, do I with you; thus I confirm my self in that Paiiion which is already fixed in my Heart. You may believe me, My Dear, I have minded no Pleasure since you left me, but thought perpetually of you; and io I wou’d have you do of me; and as a proof of my Love, I am desirous you fliou’d love me. Had I an Indifference for you, I should not care whether you lov’d me or not: but I hope I shall never live to see that day, I ihali mention your pretty Letter, My Dear, to Lucinda With whom I am to sup tonight. 
I go with greater Satisfaction since I have your Leave to visit her; for believe me, My Dear, were it not for your sake, I did not care if 
'there 
^ ^ - - ־׳ 1<^* •‘־ ■־-־ ־-~ ׳־ f؛׳ ١. ..., ٠. -- -- -- ׳' ?؛؟'׳-״ -־_: 
( 28 
there were not such a thing as a Female in the World, id indifferent I am grown for all the Sex but You : by Gad I am, believe me, love me, and I am happy. Adieu bewitching Charmer. W M 
_ ׳ ٠٠ ־ — ٠٠ ” ” ٠< ^ ^ 
LETTER 
( 20) 
LETTER. X 
CL armda to 'My Cory don, 
sever was I so frighted as when I read your lassi charge you by all our Loves, by all you hold moil dear, by all that s Sacred, come not near us. What I wiflfd at firil I fwcon at now: a remote Country fbr Silence and Obscurity 1 why, tis the 
י¡ pace for Tattle and Glaring it؛ already they are alarm’d ac me؟ my being dean, and perhaps a little different Mein from what they are u$*d to؟ has fet the Village in a murmuring Inquiry: should God. like you appear, the whole County wou’d be in Uproar. Forbear, My Dear, or let your Love think again, and contrive some better way. 
wou١d I could believe you have read all my Letters over again., as I, were you near me, cou’d convince 
C 3 you 
you I have all yojurs 
without opening my Cabinet, 'is the 
fir, p g y. 
.... Will file then hear me! Oh God, .hat shall I lay! 1 that have writ.to Qyeens, now a־m dumb.׳ Love chokes my ^ords, my Fen drops from my 'trembling .hand ر Sure' this violcht pafilon brings Death or Distraction Either gives me Eafej but you can give me Heaven, where were thy ؟eauties formed. I will not say mot, fcecaufe indeed the rest is Madness. 
Then Condor!) how sweet was the inclining Glance .لم Lucina led me ؛ ٠٠؛! made Grcve, at our great Mlftreftes Palace of ؛ ״ .she walk’d on ل Iknew the dear Contrivance, nor eonfented, ־nor resisted, such. is the) doubtful Yielding of young lnno cenee to loves alluring Charms. Yon. came,, what eager Blushes fill’d your che־eks.'. what Fires darted from your "٠■■ wiihing Eyesلم. ׳ your Siglis were ma ny, but your Words ١vere few؟ short, were the ftol’n Minutes ؟ the Impressed fion lasted ever., evem for ever, on 
CL a: 
Heart. Burr then, My Lord٠>. how long was your Petition? how long you whifpera, Do you not hate ١؛ me? nor wou’d you ever leave till you had heard with a true but faltering Tongue, / love you. You caught me in your Arms : where for that bleil moment, where were our Souls? Sure mine Was fled, and yours juil trembling at your lips, hover’d on my Bosom. Oh Corydon! ceajfe, ceaie to charm me; give my labouring Spirits Ease. Farewell. Contrive dome other way to see me. V 
b4 LET 
־'٠' '٠ ؛ ؟٠, ׳־־ “٠ ٠ ٠ ■ ,"׳ - ' -٠, V ־؛؛ : -١ ׳1 ■־ ٠ - ٠ ٠٠ "-־*' '٠ 
Corydoil to Clitrink 
»1 is it poflibleitfr/wtf should deny her Corydon, the only Sa׳* tisfadion of his Life إ but you shall be obeyed in this and every thing., yet I niuft try how far your Love will carry you to meet my Wishes ؛ for oh I grow'impatient: nowt see the dear Object of my Soul, Lucki7, whose desires in some measure run with mine as to the feeing you my because (he cannot taste the Plcafiires you can giv¿! Every Kifs from you .draws my Soul upto my Lips, ־ then' shoots it back with tickling Fleafures that runs through every Vein, fodi ferent are your Kisses from what I ever tasted. I kifs’d Lucina, who wants not Charms even go create fond De. fire in' the mols rigid Breast, and yet ’twas tafllefs all to me. We have con 
trtv’d 
I ׳ء ا ■ — ء٠ ٠ ء■ V - ذ؛ : ا\ -١ 
( 33 )٠ 
triv’d Kensington for your Abode ؛ where Lucina has promis’d to be your daily Visitor; and in her Company I know Clarinda won’t miss her cory don; forgive me, Dear eft, I mean when. Buiinefs calls him from her Arms־, which i’ll take care hall be as seldom as po/tible. Let wretched Souls who are not capable of this divine Pamoifc labour and groan under the burden of State Affairs, I would only have. Clarinda mine. 
Let me know by the next Pois, My Deary if you approve of the Place propos d, elfe i’m again unhappy; for it is impoifible for me to live without you : think on that, and thenfave or kill your Corydon. 
I also send My Dear another of i>٠ etna's Letters, to persuade her to what my Soul longs for, your Ap٠ proach. 
letter.in Lucina £0 Clarinda. 
»ang r: (My !ear) thot atn a Widow, if ever I heard so much oflove before as your Condon fills my Ears ١vith٠ ’tis well I d.te تة0ءه Clarhidds Name ذ I hear if, I. am e, perpetually; Corydon has got a Cuilom to visit me evcry day, Ott. ly to talk of Clarinda, I ever was a Confidant till now: but my. Love to you makes your lover’s Story plea 
ب ز. ..ا 
Eray hasten to us'i .i amfure all.: tilings are in your power; and why you should let a passion cool, that may tedotincl lo much to your Advantage, m to lue a Miracle 
i will tell you more when I fee.you ا.ذ defer not, for what I have to fey is worth your attention, and ''as true' as my Affection to clarinda) and my Zeal to serve her. Adieu. 
'١, ✓ ١ C٠rj(i٠٩ 
( 35) 
Condon faith we meet r&yxthurf dayf which my pleased Eyes' fljali ten you whether I am glad, pf dr 
no. v' ١-, ؛: ■ '٠' ׳: 
LETTER XIII 
CL arm da to Lucim, 
■ ' Hat Which ٠ all the happyworld woii’d rejoice at, gives me Grief; for my Prophetic Soul forebodes some future 111, nor will allow me such a Friend and fuel! a Lover: perhaps, tis the effect: of Solitude, and the Spleen, which your beloved sight, may remove. Uie no Argument to me relating towards Interest: I have took an uncommon Romantic way to oblige fine Notions, that are remote from sublunary things ؛ If these Ideas fail, I have no recourse but to Death, nor no Sanctuary but the Grave. 
Chide״ 
Cliide me now؟, for this is fed melancholy ituff: tiie Company I love, nay I might fey adore, may perhaps revive my wonted Gaiety: however, in all Humours and all Conditions ٤ am wholly Yours.... 
.... LET ٠ 
٠ j./־ 
'( 37) 
LET E R XLV Clarindato 
will you tempt me again fity mull renew a thousand Reflections that will rob Clarinda of her Peace. I am grown almoll into a perfex Stupidity: It is a kind of a dead sea calm, whole Emotions I am scarce sensible of. Your Syrenes Voice calls me again amidfl.the Waves, the Rocks, and certain Storms. Methinks this second Desire is like your firil. like the firil Lure of Love which shook my even Temper, and gave me high ell Pleasure and higheil Pain. If I consult my Realbn, how often do I wilh for that soft ilate of dull Security, when all my Care was Drels and innocent Divertion > but comes Love, my Tyrant and your Friend, that whispers o’er our Joys, repeats your Vows, your Sighs, and all yourtranf 
ports? 
tys) 
ports, I yield, I yield؛ my riiing: Heart owns your Victory׳, and urges me to fly where I may meet thole charming Eyes. 
Ask your Heart numberless Questions, if like mine it has been sin. cerely true, ne’er let any Idea in but mine, or any pleasing Thought but Love > This and much more I have to da I come my Cory don ^ Clarinda comes. 
I send to you my Letter to Lucina, ٠ I told you I ihou.d quickly get that Alfa ranсe. 
■ LET. 
LETTER XV Corydon to Clarmda، 
111 being near your Corydon di means my Love > Were I ill natured and splenetic, I ihou’d draw ilrange Conclusions from your Scruples, and cram my Letter as full of jealous sui picions, as an old superannuated Lady of our Acquaintance; does to her young Gallant ؛ but I know thy soul’s above the common Wickedness of being false, and, tis a glorious Virtue to be true, and such I know thou doll possess. Haile then, my clarin dat and with thy Smiles cheer the Heart of thy now almost expiring eery don. I shall expe¿، you on Thursday Night at Lucindas; ؛ I wou’d meet you at the Coach were I sure you wou’d not chide me; for thou art as tmierous as a conscious Murderer, whole own Shadow frights him. Your 
١ Friend 
( 4٥) 
Friend is impatient for your coming, and my Opinion is, that we iliali be leis suspected here than you seem to apprehend. 
Excuse Haile, and believe me to be entirely Yours. 
٠aagjgfflbi — mss— — — ؛ v - — ־ 
^ ٠ ٠ j 1 ^ ٠ ^ L 
١ ؛4) 
LETTER XVI 
c/arinda to 
I Am come to Kenfingtons but find neither Condon nor Lucina: Forgive my Impatiency, which cannot live without feeing you. I have dif patch.d a Meilenger in your Search. I may excuse your Absence, for my Haile has made me here long before the appointed hour. You expreis my Condition aright when you tell me 1 am full of Fears; indeed 1 am. Hope, Love, and Fear of a Censorious World, give me fey ere Anxieties biit your Sight, will drive all these Cares away. ’tis Cory don alone can bring Peace and Joy to Clarmda. 
LETTER 
letter xvil 
Cory don to Clarinda... 
■ Need not tell you, my dear, that I have not ftifd out today, for chat you may conclude by my not being at Lucinda s before you : ' You may be fur. ’tis no f mall indifpofi tion cou’d keep me within, when by going abroad I might purchase the greatest pleasure in the World, your company. For what Offence I know not, Heaven has inflicted this Punish. meat upon me, except it fears your Eyes ihou.d rival it, and I became an idolater. Let me beg you to be eaiy and contented, as much, I mean, as it is poiiible For you to be, when lam from you I hope lucinda*s company will in some measure divert my ab٠ fence, and make the hours pafs more agreeable. Tomorrow will come, my Love, and if I live to see it, I will see you, tho١ my life ihou’d pay the price; till then Adieu. 
LET. 
\ c/annda to Cory don, 
i Write, my Lord, by Luc has com. 
mand, to tell youhow we have spent the Evening, truly in reading all your Letters. Lucha flattets my difeaie, and persuades me you can never be unconilant, though. I have al ١ moil brought her to my Opinion i The soil Letters have moil Respect and Tenderness j the lafl, more careless and familiar. Sure uniting, the Flame ihou’d increase it, i’d give the world to know, whether my Corydon loves me better or worse, fmce I have own’d I love him. Lucha writes the next lines, as you see by her hand. 
Better now, but whether he will longer for your kindness professed, I dare not swear for him; I hope io, tho’ Mankind generally after the mighty 
buh. 
C 44 J 
buiinefs of^a Conqueil is over grow Idle, and when they have reached the flying fair leave to pursue. 
Hear ye that, my Lord:, Chrindas timourous nature creates a thousand such apptehenfions, this dear Friend who over looks me too too often iboths my fears, and fans my flames, by calling you excellent and Charm mg, Glory of your Sex and Age ٠١ Oh, my belt life, do you never meet with the pleasure of hearing me com. mended, I Court, I dote on your praise. but I am fond as artless, in. 
٠ nocence as harmless Maids, who never were betrayed. Farewell; to mot. row Dine with us if you can. Lucina’¿ tpo/lcript. 
Oh, happy happy you, sure never Man was bleil like my Lord ٠٠־ —, cidr’tnda is.a little World of Charms؛ her Looks, her Will, her Air gives me transports, tho’ a Woman؛ what 
then, 
( 45) 
then, mud you feel; how can you forbear, the public teilimony of 
our love, and bind her ever to your eart, with that Charm which Death alone diilolves; tis the only wonder I have in the Affair, that you defer. 
١ 
٠ ^٠ ٠ ٠ · ^٠ 
LET. 
LETTER XVHL 
Corydm to Clarinda. 
iuil as I received an Order to attend our great Mailer to wind for, I got your bllet doux I know not whole properly to call it, for your Queries, Answers and Surmises are so prettily interwoven, that I know not who’s the Mistress, who’s the Friend, * that by the way, tho’ Cory don is not authentic, for thy heart tells thee Clarinda claims the fuperibrity, tho’ one would swear Lucina were no itran, ger to my heart, (he knows so well its secret thoughts, and you may believe her, when ihe tells you I shall be for ever conilant, for lie !peaks my Sentiments exactly; and as to your Queilion, whether I love you better now than before, I answer, better, better, a thousand times, and the dispute Shall be hereafter who 
lov’d 
( 47) 
loved most. Now one word to your Friend, and then i’ve done, for my Coach waits, but ail flail wait, till you’re answer’d. 
Now, Madam, what ihali I lay to !return your Civility, I can only wish I had another Heart to offer you, so nearly you reiemble her who has poiteffion of this, that I gou١d never make a better choice, and since our Loves are mutual, tis piety there thou d be anything wanting to complete our mutual happi n؛el١s, hut impoiilbilities are not in the reach of Mortals; all that are allow’d to us, is but barely wishing, which does but inhance the pain. I have ten thousand obligations to you; .firil for your kind thoughts of me ؟ secondly, the care you take to divert Clarinda, whose pleasure I wish equal to my own; and ihe ihali never find me wanting in ought that may conduce to it. And now Ladies both, lam ibrry I can’t dp my؛ self the Honour of Dining with you today, but I know nothing ihali 
hinder 
( 8, 4 ؛ 
hinder the iatisfa<5tion tomorrow, which I propose in your charming Conversation; till when I am, dear C larinda, 
Your Faithful Lover, and 'Jjicinashumble Servant. 
q.orydon.. 
■ _ ٠-٠^ ٠ — _^ ٠ 
٠٠BHCte|٠٠tt٠٠٠MH٠٠٠M٠HHQaMa٠٠٠B٠MM٠٠٠٠٠)VS٠٠٠٠٠C٠M٠i٠i№٠p٠٠٠٤4٠MV٠BV٠٠٠٠٠il٠nHB٠KB3٠B٠٠٠٠(^٠0٠٠BS٠i٠^ii٠٠j٠٠٠i^؛^v^ 
׳.^^..'.،^".٥٠؛ 
^ I Jr .., -: ·. .٠١ 
٤·*3fw ־ LET( 
( ٠) 
LETTER XIX 
١. ٠ 
Clannda to Corydon, 
hothing bat your dear Self could be welcomer than your epi flle, which I muil say vve received since my Luc in a shared it ؛ but for my Life I can't get her to fet her Fiil to this: file vows ihe won’t: ihe write to aman ٠ — ٠ no, ihe !corns it. My Lore) Am not I mighty gay? me thinkslam. Ah this sunjhinel, twili not 1 ail, there is a gloomy Fate, I fear, belongs to me. My dear lu cina jogs my hand, and will not let me entertain a melancholy Thought. Hold — ٠ what am I talking on? wide of the matter: for you muil know, 'My Lordy it is absolutely necessary you Dine with us today, because there is some delicate, delicate, I won't tell you what: come and see. Make much of this Note, for I cannot tell 
D where 
where e٥g|gg٤ ٠iave ٤'uc٤1 another See what a Blot flies made as I was saying Poor Clarinda. LETTER XX 
Cory don to Ciarinda. 
■ His comes to kifs my dear cl rindas Hand, and tell her i’m just wak’d from a very pleaiing t Dream: Methought I had got a Lady in my Arms, pretty, and witty, nd kind as my Desires cou’d frame; 
٠ I believe you guess the Person. Duce take Imagination, I say — for I ne’er had more mind to real Substance than at present. Now, My Dean 1 mu ft rise, wail my Mouth, and then drink your Healths inchocolet; and I expert to be pledg’d by you two Ladies in ra tifea٠ Hark! methinks I hear that Lady 
I 5ا) 
dy (thatwou’d not write t. a Man) say. What does he take Us for 1.11 ب rattle, him -- - Prithee up. the Cudgels for me. and tell her lhe must either ftriiftly observe the rules.of ٩iality, .־or fefign her pre tenfions٤ و.ءا؟ءor that's a main ingre dient in the comp^ition، Hold — ل had like to have forgot Thanhs for my Entertainment Yesterday, which was the. best furnifo’d Table I ever din’.d at־ ؛beauty enough to warm an Anchorite, Wit enough, to confound a s.t٩te^a٩,. and good-humour enough to baffle the Spleen ofa Critic ؛ thjfe were the Banding Difoes -- -- The rest I remeihber were excellent in their kind ~ء~ not forgetting the Venison which! think was as good .as I ever eat... إل pofoible, i’ll see you as soon as the h؟ufe breaks 'Up ذ but in the Evening I wont fail 5־ till when, be. heve me 
Your'impatient Condon. 
٠٤ LET. 
- 
( 5 2) 
LETTER XXI 
Corydonto j 
M Hat I left Clarinda to guess at, I must explain to you. The kind Lady I mention’d was your dear Self: wou’d to Jove it had been .real. According to Opinion of the Learned, the Imagination represents the Image of things in the Mind, that ٠ are not present to the Sense; so your Image being perpetually in my Mind, no wonder that Sleep fhou’d bring you to my Arms. Oh Lucinda! ’ds impoilible for a Heart, though ne’er so well fortified with Resolution. to hold out againil Beauty irresistible like yours. Your Eyes disperse Darts of luck magnetick Power, that you northeast. ver fail to captivate whoe’er you look on. For my part, I own my self your Slave,, your Wit has charm’d my Soul, your Beauty made a perfect Conceit o’er my Heart, and 
. your 
your good-humour has drawn my Inclinations into, the Confederacy. 
i’m uneaiie when from you, and not contented when with you, wanting opportunity to tell you how much I am, Madam, your paiiionate Adorer, 
Condon. 
٠٠ 
Show this to your Friend if you dare.. 
٠٠ ״"" — ׳■I■■3~ — .... ■■■׳: r - — -- -^- .1־■*' ■■ ٠ ■ — r 
٠، 
': · ■ ١ 
١ I ^^٤٠." ■|jjj 
؛ ־ ( 54؛ 
LETTER XXII 
Climniato Condon. 
My Lor,. : : 
sour not coming lad night, occ؛e fions this Epistle § it is sent thus early to prevent such naughty Morning Dreams, and such bold Billet Deux, I allure you Lucina vows never to see your Face again: she says you are a faiie, perfidious, barbarous ٠ — I cannot for my heart write all the hard Words she thunders in my Ears : and this is all forsooth be.. cause you suspected we would be such a couple of Errant Lady Errants to pledge you in a Cup of Ratefea. Well, Cory don, if I make up this matter you mud have a care how you offend a second time : though if I judge other Hearts by my own, your pre fence will make ample Satisfaction. But setting this Mirth aftde, which seldom belongs to me my Dear, thou 
Life 
C 55) Life of mv Deiires, Darling of my Days, and constant Image of my. Nights, the perpetual Idea of my waking Thoughts, and Angel of my working Fancy when lockt in Slumbers, then ¿ven then, Beloved, I muil leave thee again, Fate and Fame, my Enemies, thy suppliant Slaves, they: decree that I muil leave thee, read the enelofed and see if I can reil in Peace. ׳, jig i | 
- fl ~.·٠ ־■ ־lj،№٠, 1 ،٠־. "؛٠٣. /.׳l)... 
٠ _ 
d4 LET 
5m 
(.50 '١ 
letter XXIII 
To Mrs. — at Kenfingcon. Madam, 
₪0 you imagine you can stay unobserved near the Court, near your Relations, and in themidfl of an admiring World, who search for you as Tertians vvou’d after the Sun, were that obicur’d; retire or elie appear in Public. Oh, be careful how you truil my Lord of ~ — and be aifured it is a Friend that gives this Caution. 
Alas, what Friend foe’er it is the Advice comes now too late. I have ventured ail my flock stove and Faith, should you now prove false I have nothing left to loose. Oh thou unneceiiary Friend, all aid is pail like Pillows to the dying. Imay be preserved in Torture, but cannot live without him. Oh swear again, again begin the Tale of Love, or i shall fear 
I 
- y: V 7 : ^ ؛ 
( 57) 
I know not what to fear; forgive me Cory don these wild Excursions; Lucina knows not the latter part of this Letter, I wou’d not disturb her or you with my Concerns, for lam never, never ib happy as when I see that faithful Friend and charming Lover pleased, something !have more to tell you, which is not so proper to be writ. Adieu. 
D 5 LET. 
§g٠^؟|j 
_ .1 " *٦ ■ _ : ■ - - “٠t '. ٠־־. ~" - V ٠ - -־ ٠'■ -- - - “- ־ — ٠■/■ - ٠ ٠ ٠٠. ־ -.. - ' 
(58) 
LETTER XXIV 
١ Corydon to Clarinda. 
ST is impoffibie to describe the concern tby Letter put me into, what damn’d officious Devil this unknown Friend can be, I can’t guess for my Soul, but that it is some implement of Hell i’m certain, for none lie cou’d be to bold to Caution ٥٠/€׳ rind am ought against her Caryacn, for if there ever were such a thing as true Love. 1 love thee, My Deary what other proof can I give you than what I have already, think Clarinda, and if there be a thing in the power of Corydon to clear the icruples of the Woman I adore, ask boldly, and if I do it not may you hate me, which is the greatest Curie I can invoke on the head of your faithful Corydon, 
., ׳ - .٠- ؛ % 
(59) 
I will wait: on you inuantly to know the Secret, and tell you my self how much I am 
Tours, 
I am so intolerably out of humour; that I cannot find one Gallant ex preifion to your fair angry Friend, in faith you are both tormenting Baggages, and that Tie Band by. 
·٠i*־״٠il 11 .... ٠'׳» ٠-٠٠■>٠-.-٠.״.٠״ i«r«t״, i I .11 I ٠a I؛.".«.■.il ،.■III ■aiii.٠amiiiiii٠¿.....؛......*.،¿، ٠ - 
is: 5m٥١ )mrn'mmmm 
. ־.j jp 
( 6 o) ٩ 
LETTER XXV Clannda to Cory dm, 
bafl: Night ( ray Lord) I well remember you made me pro hlife to tell you this Morning, if my Mind and Resolutions were the same : Oh 1 be allured I am not altered for all Reflections, but confirm my Opinion. I must go that’s certain, or be exposed to what will break my Heart, and why should you withiland it; you know I go yours, I live but to think on you, I rejoice in nothing but my Love to you, which now is grown my vital part, and all my Health and Peace, and even Life depends upon my Pailion. You often bid me ask and have, and at the same time you know I have no o therwiih but you; do you propose the Method for our Happiness, fix it to your unerring Judgement, or be Love your Guide. i’le not submit alone 

lone, that is too poor a Word; no, i’le facrificeall, all to make you ea fle. Generous Condon can not uie Clarinda ill. 
The trusting, charmed, the loving, doting, dying, fond Clarinda come and help contrive my Journey, the time will quickly now run on in swift hours of Pleasure unobserved,, wants obicure will come, then the rugged Traveller Will drag his pintti ١ on’d Wings, and each slow beating Minutes march seems a long age of Woe; but I anticipate my Sorrows; Joy of my Soul farewell. 
.٠ Tojljcript. /; 
'Lucina is grown Ihy, and will hot help me out. My Letters, I fear, wants lprightlinefs.to please a Man of your Eire, my love is،fierce as yours, that’s all I boast of, Adieu... 
LETTER 
■ ( § ٠٠־ j 
Corydon to Clarinda, |١y^uil 1 propose the Method pinefs I then let it be to love for e ver, for sure there is no Bliss beyond it, for where two Hearts are bound by mutual Love, no petty Quarells dare intrude, or caufelels Jealousies defboy their Quiet; Love and Honour are the only ties upon our Actions, and he that breaks either of them will have no regard to Laws, we have had but too many Presidents lately, in England the Power of the Parliament fuppafies/ that of the Church. Be ailured, my deat־eft, that I Love and I do no more know the time when I shall not do so, than when I shall dye. Believe me, and take care of your self, and me in you. 
If you are bent upon going, 1 will see you tonight, tho’ if, you might be 
prevail. 
; <؛־٠ ٠; ٠،٠١.־؛; ٠ : ٠.; ٠¿ .׳<.٠ ٠ ٠; -־.־ : ٠. ٠ - ١ - ■ ־.. \ 
- - - ٠ ■ m ٠ 
б¡)) 
I, ׳prevail’d upon to stay till fuejday would beg to be excused till to Mor. row Morning, race some Affairs of Coniequence require my attendance upon his M. — у in his Closet this Evening; but if Clarhda Commands all things iliail be defer٠d for her. Pafifcript. 
٠ Anfvver per Bearer, that I may ٠ ؛;. .take my Methods according 
. ٠ ٠ л؛״ .؛ ־ ٠^ ٠i־t: ' ٠ ־ ־־؛־ !i.. ٠■٠٠ ٦ ٠٠٠٠٠٠٠■־ ٠. ¿؛o — ־ ٠ ־ ٠״ ٠ ٠٠ ■ r" ١١^i٠؛ ״٠■ "٠" ٠״־ ״: ١ .٠ ٠ 
( #4) 
LETTER XXVII 
Coryion to Lucina., ׳ 
the 
fair Luchda think I have put upon her concealing .my Letter 
from Clarzmla* -- Why Faith — 
That I am not indifferent to her־ — Pardon my Vanity, hut you can't in؛ reason deny me the liberty of making the best Interpretation for my Love I can, since to have a share in your esteem is the uttnoft extent of my Desires, and the hopes of once acquiring it is the only comfort of my Life. Oh Madam, cou’d you but conceive the disorder of my Heart when i’m oblig’d to caress one for whom I find my Flame declining, and at the same time to entertain another Which I know Tm Fated to adore, with cold complafance or artful Gallantry. I am almoit mad — ־ I have juit writ a short Letter to Qlarhda, 
which 
( .5) 
which I suppose you 11 see, for my part I have with the greatest violence imaginable fbrc d my self to write kindly to her, Diilembling is no؟ my Tallent, and ’tis with the greatest regret in the World that Tm oblig’d to practice it, and I am so much a lover of plain dealing, that 1 fear ihe’l quickly discover the Impolture. 
I was under Tome Apprehensions that Lucinda was the Person that had caution’d Clarinda; but since I saw her my Sufpitions are chang’d, and I look upon it as a happy Omen in driving her into the Country, to make room for my humble Addreilès to the dear Lucinda which in spite of her coldness Cory don will perform, V If you value the well being of a Person prefers you to all Confiderà. tions whatsoever, send one Line to your faithful Slave. 
LET.. 
٠■: ■ ■: ٠; ٠ X 66' : : ■('׳ 
ه t Ti L IYIII; Clarindd to Coryion, : [׳ بי He three Words I. lent by your Meifenger, tells you I Obey, your desire in my stay rill اًئي/]ج but having pail an Evening withou؛ feeing you־ or lucim) lure I cannot employ it so much to my satisfa&b on as Scribing to you firfti I wou’d ask you wheher you think your self or Lucka happier than I, you ntake a Celebrated: Figure, so does she; you give and receive Visits, have Circles, Levees, Ruells, see the lame؛ Itheperfe# Devotee to Love and Solitude quit all this Grandeur, lofoin Thought, feeding on contem plation, catch but now'and then, a gleam of ־blifs, and fondly think I ،. am over paid.. Oh Corytlonwhy do you talk to me of Church or Par! 
ص : liaments. I study .nought but Love... my Soul, that Heavenly spark, form ؛ 
ed by enligntening Fire, but then in Bounds confined,, and darkly sent in queil of Happiness, centres all its Joys in you, nor mounts to the Ce٠ leflial Orb from whence the Infpira״ tion came. Whoever is a perfect Lover can never bean Atheist;; 1 they will find there’s something more, much more, both in their Pains and Transports than a Mechanic Engine, plain Nature, like its fellow Brutes, cou’d feel ؟ give them ye Powers but one .Moment my wrack of thought, or my Delight, and they.i soon cow fess the Immortal part. I mall be puniihed for this I know. I shall. but Tie go on tho’ inevitable ruin waits me. 
I humbly conceive you think me mad, I am lb, and i’le indulge it, Tie Love till I have forgot all other use of Life, lull dote on my prize, my bleil, happy, lovely and beloved j thus will I talk, and rave, and write, time (hall unheeded pais, the labouring Spirits, when worn out with 
mighty 
(6%) 
mighty Agitation, then will cease to work and all this violent Pailion be forgot. Am I not happy now I think I have been in the upper Region. Adieu, come and reclaim me from Romances, you have not usually these flights from Clanuda. 
Lucina to Corydon. 
bure inch an Example of Falihood no Age can Parallel, make love to me Clarindd s Bofotn Friend, write to me, well never be alone one Minute, it must be other Peoples Fates only can preferveyou, houfes, Churches, nay, I beleive, the very Sky wou’d fall upon you if caught at convenient distance from Mankind ؛ what vile Interpretation did you put upon my concealing your Perfidy from Clarinda; no, no naughty Man ’twas my fear to disturb that Charming Friend, elfe I had thrown ’em at her Feet immediately, and stamped upon ’em ؛ I beleive that you depend upon that Graceful Person, Mein and Gallantry to conquer all Hearts that run the dangerous rifijue of conver. iing with you; bnt I will arm my self with Friendiliip, Gratitude and .·٠־٠ Juilice, 
¡8® ■ ' ( 70·) juitice, these iliali for ever against ail your powerful Actacques preserve 
the incensed Lucina. 
LETTER XXX 
Corydon to'c/arinda* 
beieive me Qlarinda, business never sat more heavy on my Soul than last Night, a thousand times I wiih’d my self with you, if I am thus restless now you are near me, what mail I be when you are gone. 
I know not what’s the matter with me, but I am grown uneasy of late, methinks i’m never pleas.d but when I am in your Apartment at kenftng. tbn; I grow weary of the fatigue ing Affairs of State, and wou’d be glad of a retreat free from Court, and all its flattering Greatness, in 
some 
I ٥|) 
lome lonely Cell with her I love. Oh Qlarinda^ pity me for I am now in need of pity ^ I cou’d curse every bar to my happiness, wou’d curling do; but when I confider all things will have an end, I know there is no lading Pleasure on this fide the Grave, this thought arms me with resolution to endure the utmoil frowns of Fortunej whilst you are well and happy Qorydon can bear them all. J 
Pie see you in the Evening. 
■; .־٠١ ׳ ״٠ 
LET. 
، 72) 
LETTER XXXI 
Corydon to Lucina, 
יour very Anger is so charming that I must offend again, to be again chailis’d, I iliall not endeavour to clear my self of ought you are pleas’d to lay to my charge, but plead guilty to each Particular, and throw my self upon the Mercy of - my Judge, who cant in Conscience puniili me, being in a great measure the occasion of my Crime ؟ had you been leis Charming. I had been more conftant.to Clarinda; your putting ־־٠٠ me in mind of Judgments, I vow, ٠ makes me tremble lead they should reach you, for Heaven never fuifers Murderers to go unpuniihed, perhaps you smile at all the Mischiefs which your Eyes commit, and cry the Ad is not yours, but let me tell the cruel Fair, pretended Ignorance will be no Plea in Loves Court of Judicature. 
I 
٠٠ 
(. *7 ؛ 
I can’t help laughing at your reli gious icruple;, for my part Ira 'too good a Protestant to think Heav willpunilh US Mortals for perfuing its own Decrees؟ and lay you what you please, I mall never b brought to believe, ought but a. divine Inspiration in my Love for you: thete sore. Madam, spite of yourrefolu״ tions, I w؛u hope, nor is ذ it po^ble '.you foou’d .lay any claim t¿grati tude or Justice, whilli you are deaf to the suit of your Admirer. 
ii I I -; ¡1 / 
٠؛ 
LET 
III 
٠, 74 I 
.. X etter xj؛x؛y. 
Cliifiniato Corydon. 
surc my Charming Cory dm borrowed that melancbolly expref iion from his thoughtful qurin4a to meditate either on disappointments, or the !aft period of our Ambition, Love and Care: The Grave suits not the gay, happy Corydon, whose Soul is so dilpofed and adapted to ؛ms lovely form, that ail his Actions move eaiy, and incline to an agreeable mirth and harmony, then his Manly reason frees him from all the little fears our Sex is subject to. i, moil timorous of my Kind, am doubting Hill, and frighting my Repose a. way. 
Lafl Night, wearied with thought, parting indeed was the Theam; sleep came to my relief, but, oh, my Dream distracted me; methought my better an.el came, Saw the lovely Boy, his ihining Looks confirmed ١ _, .،.١٠\ him, 
C 7.5), 
him, more than mortal, resplendent Glory filled c،he room, for my fancy worked me even where I realy was filent with Fear and Awe; after a tuneful found I heard, I thought I heard diilindly there words in a Voice as soft as Corydons, When firs he whispered Love i ah, thou fond, foolish fair, vohofe Heart was made too soft for thy more rugged fate; awake from the bewitching Lethargy of Love, and lift thy Eyes to brighter ' glories f At this he spread his liver Wings, and darting ٠ Beams of dazzling Brightness, that my weak Eyes cou’d scarce pursue the wondrous trad: of Light,, yet I did, and there beheld a glorious Troop in diilant Air. I heard diilolving Melody, my Ears catch’d imperfectly the sound, yet the Words feem’d these: He is false ؛ and fair clarin da’s ours. That Accent, tho١ divine, waked me, with terror I called a loud on thee, protested thou were true, and contradided all the amaz e 2 ing 
٠ ...I. ٠ ٠ 
( 7 6) 
ing Vision. Hail to me, my Love, and if thou can ft not Swear new Paths, run o’er all the old, that I may ne’er, tho١ Angels speak it, believe that Cory don can be false to his Qlarinda٠ 
٠ .٠ ؛.· / 
LETTER 
( 77) 
LETTER XXXV 
Condon to Luciiu. 
i Can no more help writing to the fair Lucinay than ilie can making Conquests where’er ihe comes. You ٥re mistaken if you think your filence؛■ will makeme defift .no.ym refolv’d to proceed let what willattend. Fortune if ill favours the Bold, and only؟ Cowards fly their ground; whole Sauls are incapable of glorious Actions, I cannot fear, having Love and Honour for my guard; Love bids me hope, and Honour pleads my Cause; and Lucina muil be more than cruel to both. Tell me no more 
׳ of your fricndlhip to Clarinet a, lead I turn your own Argument upon you Tor do you think fhe’d kiis the hand،.؛ that kills the Man ilie loves? To iliovv your friendihip to her, be kind and pity me; I wilknot leave to pet. fecute you, till in pure compailionto your self you condeicend to hear me. 
b1 ״، It: 
(.7-8 
It was not without the greateil violence to mv inclination, that I heard׳ the tender iighs, law the melting Tears, you paid Clarmda at parting, 
I grew Jealous of every look, and though flae is Woman I envied her the ole ding;, nay, now, the very Idea of it diflrads me; write, Madam, or my .pa/fion will hurry me to your a partment ؟ nay more, perhaps force me to declare my Flame, tho١ a thou.. fand Eyes were by. I wait the return of my Servant with your An,, which wifi make happy, or miserable, Madam, 
Your ladyihip.’s devoted Slave, 
LET 
٠٠؛؛ 
('79) 
LETTER XXXVI 
. Lucina to Corydm. 
■RE the moil excellent qf Man!·־ ئج Rill the falsest, .hen Na 
ا ture gives every other Grace ر Does! fltepurpolelyohiit Truth and Con ״' ftancy? Can Coryden forget his clarin* del) the. softest Maid, the Gentlest Kindest Fair, that ever yet was form, ed? Is foe not Young, Beautiful and Good as Angels are ح can'ye forget'' her Love, her Faith, her Tenderness, with what a lost regard Ihe viewed her: Qorydon at parting؟ Iter lovely Eyes seemed to ash it hewou’dftill be True,, but he is False, forevorn؛ Oh, who ihali whisper the Tab to her ؟ may no officious Tongue ever reveal .the perjured־story: Methinhs I am guil ty too, 'and' conscious of yours, T dare not write ro my clarinda. I charge )tqyccrydon, return׳ to yourfirft Vows, and this, one erring hep, this just growing falfliood hall be as fe ب E 4٠ cret, 
؛ 
٠ ^٠; 
crct as the flames in Urns, whole sickly fires are never seen by mortal Eyes; but if you perfiit. what can ye hope, inevitable mine follows; ruin on poor Clanmar your self and me. 
■; ^'٠: ־־ | j '; ٠" L ET 
LETTER XXXVII 
Clarinda to Qorydon٠· 
i^t/hat! a Post gone, and no j\j news from qorydonis he not well? Or is he careiefs grown? Either is artorm^nting thought; thou bleiting of my d^ys do not forget me. Crown my/folitude with thy dear Letters, and I am Content. Is that so much? Yet that is all I ask; I know my Love has buiinefs attending that great؛ Monarch, who always smiles upon him. I know it is a world of care: Thus do I frame Ex. cufes for thee. Oh, I mull: for my own Quiets sake, for fhou’d I once believe neglect: the cause my grief wou’d know no bounds, I soon thou d grow the Image of despair, my wan Cheeks and languid Eyes would fright the fools that are so eager now to gaze; away difponding fears my Love is Conilant, his Vows are true, 
his 
iiis paílion all unchanged ííncerity; me thinks, fbmthing cries hold Ciar in da. he’s a Man, and Men are all by Nature falle, let em be lo my Cory don. not made of the course fluff, the rest were formed, he is Angelical and all Divine, write to me then, and chase my Melancholy Dreams, to guilty Bofomes, let not mine be the Mansion, for Love, even the God of Lovefbe filled with whatlove ffys despair, tell my Lucina, !lie’s unkind, tell her I lovejher next my Cory don adieu. 
٠ — ־_־ ٠ ٠ ٠־ _ — — ٠ ־_ ־ I - 1. -. ־ ־ ~ -٠. ٠ ٠־ — — ٠" ” — ٠-٠ ~ ٠ .)< ٠ 
٠٠’ ٠ ٠٠ ٠ .٠ ^٠. ^٠ ■ — — — ٠ — ٠٠ — ٠ — — ٠ -٠. ٠٠־ ٠ ٠) — ٠ — — ־ ٢ — ... '٠١^- ^٠ ~ f - — — ~ - -^ ٠ “٠-٠ ٠ ٠ — ٠. — — 
LET 
LIX CEE ؛XXKOTP ٠ j Cory don to Lucina١ ٠ 
₪eafe cruel Fair thus to torment me, why do you p my remembrance the only tilings I wou’d forget, yet this pleads for me, I never wrongedc/٥r/»i؛/،?, and now repent I ever lov’d her. She is indeed all you can say, hay .؛alias Charms might fix Inconilaiicy it ie١lf، but yours surmount, Heaven knows I have ilrove again!! this growing flame, arm’d my self with resolution to suppress it; but the more I endeavour’d to ilifle it, the more fierce it burn’d; so that concluding the ٠ hand of Providence was in’t, I ventur’d to declare my Pafiion. Ohi Lucina, be merciful, as you are fair and destroy not my hopes with such fe vere Reflections. Sutter me to appear before you, which I dare not do without your leave, lb abiblute is yopr Command over your difpajr.. ing Slave. LET. 
LETTER XXXIX 
Cory don to Clarinda٠ 
bours I receiv’d my Dear, and can just tell you I am well, but so hurried up and down, that I cou’d icarcefind time to write this short Letter: You must not be uneasy, my Dear, at missing of a Poll, two, or three, opportunities does not always offer, and. a Man wou’d not forfeit his Reputation upon ib trivial a Concern as that of a Letter: I will allow you to write every'poft who have nothing elfe to do; but for me who you are ienfible have a Thousand things to employ my thoughts, you must forgive unlucky Business; once a Week, at least, you shall not fail: if I have Jeiiure, ofcener : For you may be allured Ijlhall miss no Opportunity, ftnce my time’s not spent anywhere so much to my fatisfa&ibn as 
when 
_ ٠ '؛<٠ _ V ٠^ ٠٠ ٠٠ ■.^١^. ٠ ٠ ٠-٠٠^ _ ٠^ 1 ^^٠ ٠^.^؟ I _ ^١٠ ٠ ־٠ ٠٠ ٠ I ^ ٠_٠^. ٠٠^” ١ ... ٠ ٠٠ 
( 8؟) 
when writing to Clarinda whose ve־. ry humble Servant I am.; 
TOSTSCRITT. 
I have not seen Lucina, nor don’t know when I shall; you had best write to her your self, perhaps ihe Hands upon pun6tilioe’s, and ’tis you¿؛ Duty to write fir ft. 
٠ I LET 
LETTER XL 
Clarinda to Cory don, 
1١יuch comfort as some Mother ١ Felt, when; bet only Son, the darling Heir of Kingdoms died, ( can I add a greater fimiie) fach Comfort did your Letter bring. Is it a trifling concern to preserve my Life, for of that consequence your Letters are. What will become of me? Oh, I am finking down apace, my Melancholy fancy form’d this Idea long ago., Tis not my Fortune finks me, but, tis you, I scarce believ’d what I read, but thought my Eyes mistaken: They, alais, convinc’d me thole well known chara&ers are yours. Be filent rather then write foto me, ٠ my Soul is great as thine, nor is my Birth inferior: Think not I have nothing elfe to do, for if you have left ٠ me I have great Affairs both with Heaven and Earth. 
First( 
() 
Firil I have a cause to plead with Heaven, my Youth, my Innocence, which the just Powers will sure forgive, and save than a noble Family,. they’l not deny me refuge. 
What pettilh anger does my folly raise, I have no refuge but in thee, because I will have none, but do not ule me ib, leaf! you repent too late, and never find in all your search of Love, such another doting Fool as your Clarinda. 
LET 
٠ k ■ ' ٠ ؟^؛^٦٠١٠ ١ 
־ ٠ ' ، < -- -- ٠- ~ ، ٠ 
LETTER XLT. ٠ Qlarinda to Lucina 
happy Lucina, if thou knowefl not Love, ihou.d L send thee a Copy of Qorydons last Epistle, sure thy Friendihip wou’d join with me to Curse Mankind : But why do I com plainof him, I am by all abandoned, Lucina has lost the remembrance of the Wretch that lov’d her. Oh, ill repaid in Love and Friendihip, what I have now to wiih is, that you may meet a happier fate, a" Swain, if possible, more lovely, and truer far than Cory don: But as I said to him, so will I repeat to you, you cannot find a Friend more faithful than Qjlarinda. 
LET( 
( 9) 
LETTER XLII 
Lucina to Cory don. 
¥ Have found your ill natur’d pur j[ pole by my dear Clarindds Letter; how dare you be so unkind to her, and have the Confidence to believe I iliall entertain one good Thought of you. I give you leave to come and see me, only that we may talk of her, that I may convince you, never any Woman loved you more than me does, or deserved you better. Had it been my date to have look’d upon you without injuringmy friend, I ihou’d have thought you the moult amiable of Mankind: but that consideration renders you the moil de teft’d. I am angry at the perverseness of our fate which scarce allows me to say civilly, Adieu. 
POSTSCRIPT. 
Ivvrite to her this Poll, failure you, but what to say Heaven knows. 
LET 
١ :, ( 1-90' ' 
LETTER xlilf. 
Larina to Clarinda.’ 
stupified vvith Sorrow for die loss of yourdear Society,! thought I ihou’d never have brought mv־ seif into the Power of exereifing any faculty. I am sure, now I endeavour. 
I fhafl infinitely Tali illort of expressing my ardent affedfion to my charming Clarinda: If the Men are false, their own perfidioufnefs be their Puniihment. Let us Love on. 
I have oftentimes la mind to come down to you, for there arethings which I cannor، at this distance, tell you؛ that troubles extremely your everlaitihg Friend Lttcinai 
LET. 
90)"■ ־ ؛1¡ 
LET ER XLIV 
Lucina to Corydcn. 
My Lord, 
kaft Night being vexed at your j Addreiies, and fond of my Friend״ I have sent her something,, this Poil I fear will too much diiturb her. Pray do you write a kind Note, to remove her suspicions and fears : Do this as you wou’d oblige one you profess more too than ihe wishes, unless circumstances were otherwise. You know whol I mean, farewell, learn to be conilant.v and then befure you flail be eileemed by Lucina٠ 
־؛؛.i ؛١ i: : ׳- i;. ٠־؛. i r ؛■■: | r. v: ١........ J ' 
LET 
■ ."־· ■ ·■ - ·" V :; ־״٠ .٠ ׳٠ ٠ ' 
Cs) H 
LETTER XLV 
Cory don to Clar in da. 
sad Clarinda been in London I ihoud have sworn (he was just: come from feeing the Fall of ALEXANDER when ihe writ this Letter: tis so larded with Romantic flights. Prithee call back thy Reaion whilst in sight, least it out ship thy reachs. Your Fears are all as false as they are unreasonable. What if the hurry of Buflnefs won’t permit me to write every Poll, must it then follow of necessity, that you have lost me ؛١ In. deed Clarinda yoa displease me with your Fears, and if you ihou’d find what you seem so often to suspect, blame your felffor it; for as nothing engages a Man of Honour so much as a generous Confidence, so nothing nettles him more than a perpetual distrust ؟ why lliou’d you anticipate your Grief, stay till you find me 
false, ، 
( 91) 
false, as a witneis of your Love be easy and contented, which is the only way to secure your Cory don, LETTER XL VI t Cory don to Lucina 
؛am sorry I can t obey the charming Clarwda in everything, i’m sure ’tis my de/ire to do so, but when ihe|commands things so unreasonable I must disobey her, as I would the Gods themselves, (as Lifmachus says; Ah Madam why would you make a Villain of me? Why iliou'd I counterfeit a Passion where I have none, no tender one I mean, doubt. 1 less I Iiave a friendihip for Clarwda. and shall have to my Lives end, but the better part of me is wholly devoted to the Divine Lucina; why wou’d you diilurb your Friend, whose Repose you seem lo much concern’d for, ifyou have said ought that may 
difcjuiet 
( i J ’ 
disquiet her in your lall Letter, ’tis fit you contradict it by an other, but that as you please, for my part my Conicience will be clear;, tis honourable Love I make to you, and Marriages were made in Heaven you know. Thus far i’m sure I m in the right; now wou’d any reasonable Man think me mad, that after having obtain’d leave to wait on my Mistress, I ؛،hon’d stay to write to her ؛ True, but what has Reason to do with Love? Nothing at all, — and yet it has too, for 1 have a great deal of reason in writing this Letter, by which L hope to prevent a Thonfand Interogotaries about Clarinda, which I protest neither to hear nor answer one, but every iyilable you mention of her shall entitle me to a kiis ؟ therefore Madam, proceed as you please with 
your devoted Cory ion, 
LET 
(If I 
L E TTE R XLVII: %:. to Qoryclen. 
،will no more trouble you with my Fears, I alone was bom to seller, and so: will with such a refig nation bear my woes, till I shame my severer Deftiriy, and make the World again(! its Nature, Laws״ and letded ١ Pradwce· own X have, been very hardly, ·uied. 
Oh why did not this Almighty business press thus hard upon your Heart in the; ers: perfuic of Love, Jet an؛ Impartial Judge confider, and in appearance you then had more dian now, your Fortunes and your Honours were but growing ripe, your great !Made؟ had no other Favourite, the .Ml is lure fulfilled, ؛ambition is satisfied, and the deike of Wealth is gorged, the King can live some hours without you too, ail are pleased, only Love and I complain ٠ where are now the soft Expreifions, the bewitching 
( g6) 
Witching Language that engaged my unwary Heart, then I was your little Cherub, the Angel Heaven had lent to bless your days, and give a taile of Joys Immortal ؛ this and a thou fand Words more tender filled your Letters in the gay blooming hour of Love, when the least scrip from me, jwou.d fet your Pen a flowing, till Sheets were covered with exceilive Passion. Now, oh reverse, I may unheeded blot long Pages with my Truth, my Vows, and unregarded Love. 
Of what use is my undoing? to warn my Sex signifies no more than all dire Examples do that went before. I knew in History, in Poems, in many a melancholy tale of Truth how false Men were, yet I believed, milled, doted, and am I fear undone, nay, even you perhaps may charm ibme easy Fair, tho١ she ihoud know our Story, for Women too often think they may fecurethat Lover on which foflie forsaken Nymph exclaims. 
7 P ٠ My j 
91 )־) 
My Woman م when i!ill heat her) daily tells me how ihe meets with nothing but Praises of my 13eau١ ؟.y٠ what defies Ed but vouchsafe t ■؟less their Eyes sometimes, then ج ؟y to m־y glais, ash that If I am لافخ so fair .and. young to. catch ¿؛؛ ۶azers, why Qorydon s Flame re bates nor Courts nor Dyes as he was ١vontfor his 0larinda. Oh, there is am.؛g؛ty reason, though. a most ungratefui one, I am his already and cateiefs of ي tile Conquest which with toil he wo؟, his Heart grows fond of new ۶e؛fuits. I '!aid I woud no more difturhyou with my Fears, but tis irnpoifible, they arc inseparable to ۶ne who loves like me, forgive and love me if you can, if nor remember poor Clarindei dyes. 
F t 
LETTER XLVIII curinda to Lucina٠ 
₪ncc I Had yours, which I confess alarmed me, though if I may venture to charge what my Soul loves, Larina, with a Crime, I think ihe .writes too darkly for that dear Friend! took her for, for if you know my .Ctrydon false tell me the Particulars, ؟־ ١twill ؟be Charity to let me dye a ؛pace, such a wretch should not linger ؛long in pains, in pains exceilive, so *inetm sure will prove; but as I ؛!.aid before; since I received yours I had another from Corydon, much of the same itamp, a little foften’d, but oh too haughty for my soft Temper. .Ah my Lucina! I perceive he that was my Slave in the firil Reign of Love, is grown my Lord and Tyrant now; well let my Ruin caution thee, believe not Man״ not for his Oaths, his Tears, his Ptavers de' 
'je&ed 
( 99) 
je۵ed dying Eyes, nor all thetrains ointra^ our weaker sexj ei؛ he lays 1c all, or؟ ؛her wit؛ 
Where lovo׳, Marry forlntereft only is hardly, ever named, but only. Joyntures Settlementsand all 
؛trade, the pruden ج٤١لءج!ءقللءلي 
pta&iccj then you will nevcr tali ravelike mc, Count like me the ٠٩؛a dnight hours, and wake and' watch؛^ ill Morning; but why do I pretend؛ give Advice, who. want my self ح Councii andcomfort, Farewell. Write roe (۶you l٠ve Iff you donot ٠٠؛ once ،огйкеп of all the ؟a ب ؟1.55 ro ۴orldl value, and Flefoon forsake Adieu my Dear. аду only دئ y ٠ .Comfort 
־ ر '؛ا ־ ־ إ 
{; 1׳q٠ y 
I f ETTEI XIAX. 
Lucina tq Corydon. 
— ٠ 
My Lard, 
S Think I cannot better anfvver iaf٤٠ Nights prefitng Convention, than by sending dear Clarinda's Letter, which is just now in my Hand. I ، could not read it without wet Eyes, : if you can, sure I with her may cah you Barherous; Can you after this defert'such Goodness, and after that think i’ll receive your Apoilate Vows? Weil, if you can you are a bold Man, ١the Sin lies at your !Door, I hope to have no hand in it؛־ I think Repentance your only way ؛to Happiness;; you are obilinate 1 ؛!hall pray for Grace to continue so; ؛as well as you, I know you are a Traitor, a falie Ingrate to Love and .Qlmnd# : therefore you fliou’d expe# ...thing but hate from 
ilmina٠ 
LET 
..٠ — ٠ ٠; 
LETTER I. 
Corjdon to Clarinda 
■ much parft the power “of frail Humanity to judge of Futurity, Madam, cou’d we feta bound to٠٠our paitions.and limit their Motions by certainty, we might see a rule to our Lives, and so prevent: Providence which delights to iliovv its Power by disappointing our firm., eft Intentions, I did and do resolve to love you؛ but cannot keep up to. that effeminate fondness which I perceive you expert I shall be al٠ ways ready to serve you in the qua litygo،؛ a Friend, as much as ever, which Passion I think preferable to Love, Fm sure at least tis the moil lasting of the two, and if you’l come to Town, Fie be one of your. Visitors if you pleaie to let me knew your Days of Audience, and if you. 
F 3 will 
( *٠٥ ؛ 
will promise to return the Obligation I should be very proud to receive you. 
Tis true Ambition is fatisfy.d, the King is iatisfy.d, all are fatisfy’d but you, which shows that to.fatisiie Glarinda is beyond the Art of c٠. rydett* 
'LET. 
?؛.!.; I. 
, LETTER LI 
٢٠.< ■<. ٠ ٠ ٠ ٠־ 
Coryim to Lucinth 
Hat Man is there on Earth that has not ibmetime do what might puli immediate V enhance on him, were not Heaven more merciful than we deferve، we ftould all be the Lord knows where; but our Religion teaches us to hope for pardon of our Sins, .and roy sin. .erity for your Eileem; for faith, £/٠? dam, I am sincere with you, and when I cease to be io, may Heaven and you renounce me, a severer Curie even you, in favour of your Friend, cou’d not impose. 
But why ihou’d the fair Lucina hate me, because I can’t love another? It is a very odd reason, and £ believe the first: of that kind that e. ver was given by your Sex. The Language of your Pen wou’d drive me to perfect Madness, did not that 
F! of 
[ *.4) 
of your Eyes come in to my relie؟ they tell me a foster Story; nor is it poiiibk so much Beauty, Virtue and Coodnefs, so nearly ally.d to Per. section, as Lucina is, ihou’d want the forgiving Quality; no *twou’d be the height of Impiety but to doubt it; therefore Madam, you see I am resolved to love you in spite of all that you can say or do t your J 
Cory dom 
Ideftgn to wait on you in the e٠. vening, and bring Clarinda's Letter, with the Copy of my Answer, till when I am, ■ ■ ٠ ٠ 
Madam, your mofl 
ebeiunt Servant, 
LETS 

■h 
J ( ».5). 
LETTER Lir: 
Clarinda to Corydm. y o؟٤٠ ou ١؛sf *١ac٤ confli&s my ״ 
you are falie, twill but iticreafe your ibort; Good God, what have I done, what horrid Sin committed to merit such a Puniihment as this? Why thou barbarous charmitfg Man, why didst thou chose out me to ruin? Was I too happy ?Had you so much of Hell to envy my repofe’becaufe my unspotted Fame ifood fair because 1 was adored and praised by all, therefore did you reiolve. to blast my Youth and make me grow even hatefuf to my seif: Qh mo it .unheard of .Cruelty, had Ifpread the subtle trains of Beauty, Jor ·defign’d a Con.. quest, you yet had left to. say, She helps betray her[elf; but oh your Sou 1 your faithleft Heart well knows 1 feared and fled before you; but you 
؛؟■ .٠ '■־ i 
L : : : ₪₪m₪₪₪₪ibi 
( 10# )' 
I iuppofe laughed at my. guard, and. knew your Charms cou’d conquer e. very cautious Maid," they did I own it. I love you, dye for you;, oh prepoftorous Fate, can that produce your hate. You wou’d have me come to Town and you will visit r٩e, lure you or I, or both are mad, can you behold me with indifference? Am ٠/ so altered? Are your Vows lb loon forgot? No, no ’tis buf: a tnal, yet do not, do not, cruel Lorydcny do not proceed, ’tis too severe for o٩e just enter’d into Sorrows, whose shining kdorning promised a more happy Day; cou’dft thou see me now thus in the filent Night, when all are lock’d in peaceful rest, alone complaining and foriaken, sure thou wou’dft pity me, sure thou woudft fly to my relief, revoke the cruel words thy guiltytletter brings،, ،and healing my difpau fw؟ar once again thou only art ^, - ٠ ٠. 
clarindas. 
LET. 
■ 
٠، _ ־ ٠٠ - ٠ — - ٠٠ - - _٠ ٠٠ _ ^ ־ ٠ - — ٠ _ — ٠ -٠. .٠ 
f 1.7) 
LETTER till. 
Lucina to Corydon٠ 
؛will not see you tonight I an١ reiblved, Ido confess I cannot help reading your Letters, tho’ I am very angry with you, and with my. Eyes too I ailure you if they encoii. rage you; one reason why leaned see you tonight is, because I am en״ gag’d at my Lady — where I fun״ pose you’d be welcome, as the Dtree take ye you are everywhere, unlefis it be to 
jluctw, 
*pojlfcript. -׳ ٠ ٤■־׳ <; .٠.٠׳ 
I have lent you inelofed tiny Letter to Oarinda; poorthingjwoifd I could persuade her to hate Mankind as I do, pray observe it when you read it., tis my real Sentiments uponhonour.. ١ 
LET״ 
LETTER LIV 
Lucina. to Clannda. 
My Dear, 
■Y all the Amorous Stars that Ruled your Birth, which I de fie, 111 never love take your 
Advice, and Interest shall only be my Guide, if there’s anything so mad to venture, then at their own peril be it: Prithee do not talk of dying, hvoand make new Conqueits, ask me not after Gory don, say only to thy self, he is a Man, and then conclude the rest; think on greater Miseries than the Disappointments of Love, and that will make what you suffer sit easy. I arm my self even for a breach of Friendihip, because I have lately itudied so much Philosophy as to find nothing in this mutable World is Permanent. I wiih you happy Clannda, I wish I never had been Born. 
There 
( ... ١ 
There now I think I am as Melancholy and as Sententious as you for the Heart of you. 
Luc in a. 
LETTER LV 
Corydon to Clarinda, 
SO charge me with your Ruin, is to tax me with want of Gratitude, that I confess provokes me, I wou’d not have the leaf؛ of the Creation think me guilty of a bale Action, even to an Enemy, much less to one that I am bound by so many Obligations to be civil too, as I am to Clarinela. Faith Madam, you argue very well, and in the pritieft Style imaginable, but youmufv give me leave to bid the Devil take me if I catr 8f will believe a Woman of your Senie cou’d expect a certainty in Nature; Fortune and length of Days 
change 
( I 10) 
change all things you know, you may call me Barbarous, Cruel, or what you pleaie, but all Worldly Affairs are Tranfftory, as I am at present; for / am now awake, and muff; go to Sleep, as Toon as / have told you that / am more yours than you believe. 
Cerydon. 
Faß iz a Cleck. 
LET. 
letter lvl 
Corydon to Lucina. 
■ O be Three hours in the cofe. 
pany of the Miitrefs of my Soul without having an opportunity of !peaking one word of what I iuf fer u ibr !..or؛ was, / think, the height of Torment, to talk, and not to talk of Love; tp whisper, and yet not dare to whisper the lost Tale, was more crois to my purpose than the Game, we play’d at, like Tantalus 1 had my Foog i. veiw, and periilfd in pte hghf of Plenty, / half fui;. ped ypu gave me the /nvitation to my Lady — to exercise your Cruelty, ٠ 1 fanqy, /look’d like an afs.and / heartily wiih no body difeover’d it ؛ buf... your self, for methinks a Lover when he makes his hrft Addreiies is the filliefl Figure of the whole Creation, and / would ilill keep up the Name of Man, though. Love rules all 
my 
(2اء؛ 
my Faculties, and makes me ad whate’er he pleases / your. Letter to qlarinl·) and like your Politics well enough, and if you, can’t he brought ־to'my Terms, to exchange Heart for Heart, 1.11 submit to yours; let fntcreft be yohr Mo. tive, whilst Love is mine j. let me hut reach' the top of my Desires / 
... not by what means ر rise, sofar i’m .a true states man you icema. dam. ·· ׳; } ١ 
ر design tofupivith you tonight,, that is,, if your Ladyship will give me leave k buttbar all Games؛ ^ar ticularly Cross Purposes, nay. even a : third Person, so fete a Tete is the hest Company in the World, cl^eci. .ally, to one ofmy Gonftitituon. 
I am, Madam what you ?kafir ly; Hearns¡ 
, 'قد: .ء׳ 
/‘humbly ask your Ladyihips Par״ don if / am too familiar, but I hope on our long and intimate /icquain.. tance / may presume to banish that curse of Converaftion or writing Formality, especially when a Man speaks his Heart, as / am lure / do to z٥»٠ etna 
^ ^ ٦٠ ٠ ٠ ... ...٦ ... ^ ٠ 
| 114) 
LETTER LVII Clarmda to Corydon٠ My Lord, 
Am well convinced after the receipt of your last / never to write again, but have already broke: many rules / fhou’d have observed ilri&iy, as my Sex, my Quality and Fortune required; your Insinuations, your well a<3־ed Passion drew me into ever lalling Love, for so mine muil be how ffiort soever your unconilant date remains, and when Women Love then let them bid adieu to hap pmefs if they love like me; Ido confess in all my height of Glory, when the World call’d you mine, when at my Feet youfwore the Prieil. if /so pleased ihou’d make you io; 
/ iliii doubted, trembled, and by Prophetic Fears foresaw this Fate, your Failhood, yet give me leave to 
say 
لا٠ م) 
say ا do believe since first your per jtir.d Kind, the first Inoocehce deceived no Story can ever e^ualminejef؟ in my very Bloom of ״youth, on who loved to ٠٠ filch excess, that in Romances 0. fiich a Character i found ؤ one who made her God of y٠u٤ and there's my fault؛ forgive me Heaven, like the fad' Penitent I will return, and will never think of Poiiy more f But oh! how latri¿ is ٤h٩t Contrition forcd bythy hase flds; bafenefs, twas a hard Word, hut .is atruth, besides .Ideal with Heaven a־s you in the extremest fit ٠f your Demotion dealt by me'ؤ i am by .Halves sincere, and your re. turning hindnefs wou’d daftj my PI .US Vows 5 what shall Ido خ lam unfit to Live or Dye, to Love ־or Hate, sure my hurraing Senses will turn my .Thoughts already wild to mere Confusion; relieve me Madness. relieve me beavea, oh dearer than all, fove me Qorydon. 
I 
016־) 
Ifaid iwou’d. ״. more pronounce, or write that dear Name, ah spite ٠۶ ail my Indignation it lang؟ u۶on my Tongue and Pen، Oil, that as ؛!!epoets feign I mighc drinklirr^/yy here, and forget a few past years؟ thou, guilty و thou canst Sleep, and fearce. an. opiate Draught will lull my Sorrows ي no niatter, there may 0ذلجاة٠ tiwewhen, refieölng horrors may hreahthy reft, asthouhaft done 
da, ة; 
: ^; VI ־ II 
r T;; ivin.. 
to Lucina٠ 
IS it then io ordain’d, that when Cory don is lost Fate has yet another blow and Imuitlofe Luc ha too? ،had Providence .in its ؛fever e Decree doomed ״fuel! a Woe for her, to what kind Bosom cou’d I thought flic wou’d have flown but to her Clarh٠٠ da?? me there is no shelter now. my Family's incenfed.my lo؛ver falie. ؛my Friend as cold and as reserved ٠ as all the Happy are to the Sad and Miserable. In this Retirement and Afflictions scarce to be injured by a Temper and Conilitution foftas mine, I have found one faithful Creature, you recommended her to me, and sure Nature never made anything lb Compailionate / ilie weeps whene’er ihe perceives I do. thd’ me knows not why, and her Service has no.other fault but being too 
impor 
( ،; ٠٥ 
importunate to serve me; you may well say I forget who I write to, when !entertain you thus, but my share of Comforts being very small, Idwell upon the ihadow of one, a Faithful Servant, I fear I have nothing elfe to boast of now; I love you Lucina, but my Spleen is so great, methinks imct Corydon despises me all the world ihou’d, for after his proving ungrateful nothing will appear a Miracle to 
Clarinda٠ 
____________________________________ 
( f Ip) 
letter LIX 
Luciria to Corydon٠ 
*hoii'd I forbid your coming I fuppoic you would not mind it, for you have got an aifurance to take my very denials quite contrary; I have just received another Letter from Qlarinda, and see the power of guilt, I dare not open it, but have laid it Sealed into my Cabinet, ٠ you need not fear I shall provide a Third if I have a mind to keep you to my self, had poor Qlarinda been so Cautious you might have stili been hers, ٠؛ there is nothing so dangerous or so likely to begin an Amour as a frequent Conversation, had not you gaind good ground as a Friend. I iheu'd never have listened to you in the capacity of a Lover; but whenever I wou’d entertain a kind thought of you, as, Heaven forgive me, I am too to. often inclined towards. 
the 
(٠ 120 (١ 
؛¿he injured Clarinda comes cross my Amusements and damps all cifing Jcy, you have learned long ago to appear powerful when present, nor can I cliafe you from me when absent; these are fatal Symtoms, and show too evidently the approaching death of Friendihip; hut 1 will flru gle a little longer, and deny my self the pleasure of saying truly I am 
Mur Luc in a 
III LETS... 
־ | ٠׳ *׳٠٠ 
٠ lr v— — ~~~ — - — _ _ ٠ ٠ i ٠٠^'.־ 
12؟؛ I) 
LET E R LX 
Corydon to Lucina. 
יike areprieve to the Condemn'd* 
that’s a Simile too poor, like_٠ 
what ft all t compare it too, I, there’s the Query, For ’tis impossible to defer! be the mighty Transports which your Letter gave me; if the bare imagination gives such Bliss. what must real Poileilion be, too mighty to be born; oh my Lucina, For i muftcall you lb, why will you strive to op. pole the Decrees of Heaven, for sure i am, that has ordain.d you mine? Why do you ftrugle with your inch nations? Speak the kind Word, and say you are wholly mine, do, my fair eft, bless your Corydon, say but that, and the Holy Man shall join our Hands, and tie you ever to me؛.; think not on Clarinda,, but let friend ftip cease till Love is fatisfykl, and 
ihm 
( (22 ا 
؛¿hen renew your Vows; ills cannot take it־, ill .from you, .if ihedoesj let .her expostulate with Heaven, since tis not in your ־.power to prevent your Deftipy 5 your, .Letter has 0 pen.d a palfoge to a Thousand que ftions, .which, ؛are, to'..tedious.to in fort, since my impatience will not suffer me to־ Wait your answer.there. fore as soon .as L ean he Dreftexpeft .me, for Ilhall fly to your dear Arms With a־ Bridegroom's hast, and tell you all my Love, and force that Con. session from your Tongue which your Letter dares but ־half declare.־ a dieu thou Charmer of my Soul,, for one six Miribtes excuse 
Your qrxryjoi 
د; ٠ ء; 1لب ٠) ٠_ .: ٠٠ءمي:; 1. ٠ 
ا٠؛ ٠ا٣ - ٠٠¿, .٠ ؛ ا_ 
L fe; t٠ 
*t23.) ٠, ٠'٠٠ : '־) 
LETTER LXI 
Corydon to Clarindm. 
■have been iludying there twohours, Madam, what I ihou’d say to you, but your Sentiments of Love and Friendihip are ib different from mine, that ’tis no wonder we can t agree, I would have you ad: with reafon.and you’d have me Mad; thus while we drive different ways ’tis impossible we ihou’d ever meet! I cannot for the Soul of me fathom your deffgn, I still love you with as much Honour as ever I did, yet you complain; Is it possible that a lenfible Woman ihou’d prefer aromantick Letter to downright Truths : i’m sure I ihou’d like yours much beter were the Style more Modern, nor ihou’d I think you lov’d me one jot thedeis, indeed c/a r'mda you both diilurb your self and 
by your foolish Suppositions, ؛י;. prithee be more difcreec, and think 
better pf؟ 
Cordon. ٣د٠١لا 
LET؛ ٠;. I 
(I f۶؛ J t E TTER Cvrjdon to Lucina٠ ^ 
■he dear remembrance of iafts Nights Conversation, and what I e’er this time tomorrow shall possess, have keep me as waking all Night as if I had had ray fair Lucina in my Arms,! have counted each succeeding Hour with impatience, for every Moment seems a Year till you ״٠ are entirely mine ؟ I am just going to complete what you desired, and at Nine this Evening i’ll wait on my Charming Bride; I have order’d my Chaplain to attend me there, who־, shall receive our Mutual Vows, and Crown my Happiness with inexprc£ iifele Pleasure. Oh! illould I de־. icribe the mightytranfports which I felt when my Lucina fpoke that dear obliging Word, I will b youn, it G 3,, ׳ would 
would require more tiine than I ؟an f^re, being impatient for the wilh’d for' hour, till which every ׳thing will put me out of humour, allbut the thoughts of' my fair Lucina) whose I am sincerely. 
د I ٠ ٠ ٠ 
٠٠ :;; II 
ر.؛ذ’٠ار LET( 
( 2 J jt; 
iettei lxih. 
To the Charming - ٦ 
keis, I will call you io still, and forever; you are not less Fair because your Lovers Perfidious, the ١ lame busy Friend that cautioned you at Kenfingtonr whom 1 fuppoie you laugh’d at for his pains, has taken little more, and found you out at a? remoter distance to send you such News as all the to١^n seems furpri zed at, Yesterday my Lord — ٠٠ was Married to — .... Now woumx bo١: preaching again if I thought you’d mind me, advising you to defpile this, falfc Friend and treacherous Lord, whilst Beauty, Wit, Goodness, all the Yertues and the Graces are yours, rendering you too too amiable for the Peace of Mankind :, whilst. I say all this and more is undifputa. bly your due, scorn the unthinking - G 4. Wretch, 
Ci؟ (؛*؛ 
Wretch who has ventur’d to wrong such Merrit ٠ return thou soft lovely Charmer, return and glad the. World and me, these are the wiihes of a iincere Friend, though I believe it will be very hard to persuade you there, is in Nature such a thing. I know there is, and one that inceifantly Petitions Heaven for your Happinsfs and Peace. 7 PP 
L I_T٠ 
; ■r ٠; L ET J: E; R7l%lyi.; ٦¿ 
A Letter from cladnda’x Woman - ־٠ to Lucina. 
Madam 
I Send your Lady ini p with this a Letter my Lady received by the Post from an unknown Hand, the News it contains, whether talfe or true I cannot tell, but as it is I think it has killed her; ilie has had several fainting fits, so long and so terrible, that we all thought her dead, in the interval of Sense and Life she feels filch peircing Woe, that we know not whether to lament her moil in the pain of her Grief, or Pangs of Death; I beseech you Madam, either disprove this fatal Story, or sooth her ،sorrows foto reconcile her un equal. Torments; fly knows not ^ G 5 cf 
( ٠3٥) 
of my ١٠ writing, I humbly ask your Ladylhips Pardon, and beg you wou’d send some Comfort tp my distressed Lady. ٠ I am, 
Madam٠ your most 
eledient Servant 
1. ٠. ' " 
١ 
.؛LET 
(3٠ا) 
LET. ERLXV. 
Mis ™ءتا0ا Lori آئ־ “־ 
My lo٣٥١ 
LL fond Names for ever be for.؛; 
got, and oh thou Charmer Love, that pleafinghabitude of Mind, ..ever and (or ever, be thou forgot, ٠ tis now؛'ten Pays since 'the Ti. dings came which pubfrckfame con־؟ firms, you cannot think what a swift progress I have made to, that laftbed of Darkness, where even happy you must come blended in Death, the True, .the False, ־the Faithful, 'Cruel, and'the Kind,., sooner or later all lye down and are in Dust forgotten;; is my Epithalamium, this my Bridal Song, yet I think ihadnoc disturbed you with' it, only I wou’d te.11 you how ׳calm.iam, how.' 'free from. Anger, Fury or Revenge,. Oh may thy Perjury efoape unguniihed both' by Heaven and Men ز yet let 
m؟ 
I; ־ 
־־;.. ...ج: - -- '. 
( .32 ١ 
me warn my Sex, You fair Innocents, when like me in your soft Bloom, when Bright and Young, Arm, Arm your tender Boloms against the Tray tor the Deitroyer Man z force your lilrening Ears from the bewitching Tale, for if you hear lik۶ me, you surely are undone.; but a. above allflyfecret Love, where headlong Pafiion feayes unconfulted Friends and Fame, where fruiting your perfidious Conqueror, you think you are safe, fuel! safety is in Storms without a Pilot, iuell safety in midst of Flames, in Peits, in Wars or Far mine, such ftfety is the Honour of a Man whom Oaths, whom Love, and Thousand,, Ties have bound ؛ with Flattery you begin your emit Artifices, what pains you take to raise the work of Ruin? Oh. how !bate my Eyes ’caufe you have praised them, ’caufe they have Been plea?, fed with gazing at a rhing so false;; you cannot spare a blissful Minute to read this, I care not, Lain s٠؛t loliciro^s you ihou’d/ yet will L 
go on, speak o’er my Wrongs, and six in Characters indelible my Injuries, that being past, i’ll write no more, no more complain, but lost in filent Cpntemplation disdain this leiler World, where Faith, Friendihip, and all the Sacred Laws, Both Humane and Divine, are broke; where־ Guilt and Greatneis join, where nothing is sincere, nor nothing truly happy, and as my load of Misery exceeds whate.er my Sex: had felt before, io shall ؛my Patience, Resignation, i and ٠f$rgiy.enpfs، I fuppoie you wonder I complain not of your Bride, ¡ wou’d if polfible forget that ever fuclt a Woman was, as, I will daily strive to baniili from; my Thoughts the bridegropm^ievelin everlaftingjoys| study till new pleasures to, employ your Senies, for thinking will destroy your Happiness, especially if, you remember me. which that you never may, I wilh and bid you here eter؛ ally Adieu.; ٠ .٠ 
?he End of these fetter ٠ : ־ 
( .34) 
d Letter to Mr. V — ־ containing a jbort Defence of Aristotle., in omfition to a moderndifaurfe on Comedyy C. 
sm 
iwiih you may find the Task you impose on mo of any use to you, then I shall have no reason to complain of the Trouble; but I believe you are the only Man that ever read Aristotle, that had the ihadovv of a Reason againu anything he has laid m his Foeticks. You may reply, that the author of the Short difcourfe^ho so rigorously attaques him, muil without queilion have read him over, and if so, that then you are not the only Person that dislikes him after reading. I muss beg yours and the author’s pardon too, if I am apt to believe that you have ]both forgot him, be״ 
cause( 
() 
cause you both meddle not with one Word that he says, excepting the Limey of Time, Place and Action, which if you remember Aristotle is neither the only nor the chief part of his Book. ■ ؟ 
If I were inclin’d to Anftver this Gentleman that is io severe upon this Philosopher, Critic, and Poet: I could ealfily demonstrate the uncon cluiiveneis of his Arguments; but I shall content my self with a bare Vindication of Arifiotle, and leave you and your Friend in the full erijoy״ ment of your own peculiar Opinions. 
And in deference to you, I will fuppoie that out of some Ancient Ma ٠ nufcrips unknown to the rest of the World, you have recover’d that Book of Aristotle's that treated of Comedy, and which has been invisible above these ifoo Years to all the diligent Enquirers after it. If you have done this the Learned World will be extremely oblig’d to you, if you communicate it to them; and the Square 
Caps 
Caps themfeives freely fogive both your Pleaiantrie upon them, and that for aprefent your selves have so little an esteem for. -٠, .... ...٠٠·.·*٠' 
But if in reality you have not recover’d this Piece, really the misfor tune is so much the greater, because all, you have both said, is directed a. gainst. a thing that is not in Rerun Naturay and you unmercifully treat Aristotle as a Scoundrel Delinquent, without a pojhbility of knowing his Guilt, or what he says to deserve your Anger; For the truth on t is. Sir we know not one Word of the Matter; and Aristotle for all that appears؛ to the contrary may be: as innocent of what he's accus’d, ؛; of as the ٠ Author himself, for except two or three Chapters, all the Paeticks of ARISTOTLE, that, remain, treat wholly of Tragedy, and that in so clear and de monilrative a manner, that, tis beyond a poilibility of confuting by Reaion one Rule he advances.. But as for Comedy and Epic Poeiie, we have not so much left of it as can persuades 

US هء Imagine it ب - -, pliment 
rite, Homer, or 0؟ Arijlophanes; for Tragedy, notthiepopee, vvashisdar.: lingjio III a Courtdid a manoflearn ing make to that great Prince. 
Some Critics are of Opinion, that Horace took all that he says of co medy his ء of Poetry йот this Book thatis lost of ariflotle*s, grant, ing that to me, 'twould not be imper tincnt to examine whether that which Horace advances on that Subject will not 'hold goodas weli here in £٠جر lane) as at Athens and Rome) and then when we .have done so, Idare appeal to your selves, your own Judgments, whether it would or not. Ard if this befojwhy have you taken. ٠' such pains to abuie a Man of'your own Opinion. / 
I perceive by the Modern authors Second .Draught of a Play, he, would have some Order, dependance, and Decorum in a Play, and. that he does not think Confusion the greatest Ex. eellence of Modern Comedy, if then 
ء:;; ١ he 
he had diílik’d that Model he supposes Ar'jtotle has given us, why has he not given us one more reafonable.and more adapted to the English Stage?, Tis true he owns that we may have a Play call’d a History of the World from the Creation down to Lewis the XIV and the Scene Europe, Asia, a frica, and Americay with equal Pro. bability, as zd hours, and Qovent garden and its purlieus, ٠ yet by his a. vowing his pra¿fice to be contrary to Liberty, we may imagine he believes within himself, that a more Conscionable Compass is more Eligible. 
I lhallpafs over a Remark obvious enough in this Letter, that, a״ great part is built by the Author on a supposition of Artftotle's being no Poet, which muit fall to the Ground, when in the Advertifcment quoted from Scaliger, he tells us of an admirable Fragment of Poetry of that Philofo. pher’s; nor will? insist on an other miitake of this gentleman’s, that all the other Philoiophers had a touch at Poetry, dividing it into I don’t know 
how. 
(Ns 
how many Parts, c, when the Wit of them all amounted not to one of Martial's Epigrams; first he miitake£, that all the Philofbphers had a touch at Poetry in the fence he means it; for none but Aristotle have left us any Treatise of that Art ؛ next I dare be poittrve there is more Wit to be col״ leered out of the whole number of Philosophers, than will make two of Martial's Epigrams, if not more; for I won’t be so Dogmatical as thisgen״ tleman. 
But to observe all the miftakesof this Letter, and re&ifie them aslbme would do, would be to fill a much larger Volume than that which contains that Letter. I ihali only assure him, that Regularity is not an Enemy to Variety, as the Silent Woman, the Fox, and the Alchymifl of Ben Johnson may teilifie, and that the Irregular Authors have not been the support of the Stage, as t\\qorphan, All for Love, ve nzceprejerv a9 vainly pretend, and some others may prove. On the contrary the moil: regular Pieces of the other Poets please not. And 
( Ho) 
And now I ihatll only give you a taste of what Horace says of Comedy, * and desire die Author to tell the World which of the Rules he has left us, is not of use for a Modern Comedy ev n in Drury-lane, and add only one Familiar Qaeilroniobe Answered at the same time, Whether there benny difference betwixt Comedy and Farce. and what that difference is? Now to؛* Horace٠ 
Tntererit mu!rum Bavu$. loquatur a Eros;; 
senex, anadhue Fiorente Jit*' ■٠: venta ٠ 
Fervidus; : am Matrona potens an (edul· Nutrtx 
Mercatorne magus ٠'٠: Cult orne - *virenth Agelli 
cokls, an Ajfyrtusr Thelu mtritm٠ an Argis٠, · &c٠. 
Again, r; 
Mtatis cujufy not an dt fmt till motet Mohi lihus que de got Naturis1 : dan dm ■& awt/sy tkci. 
؛. Refpkete 
Kef pice re exemplar vitae momma, juheho Dottum imitatorem &٠ veras hmc ducere 
voces. ٥i٢j ... 
To begin With the igil Horace ad. vises a Learned Imitator or Poet to consult the Life. and thence draw what he has to٠iay. Look youithere is the gentleman’s confu Iting thepoct, x&c. Aristotle therefore is not so much too blame as he imagines if Horace has copy <1 him, since he Is exactly of our Modern Authors Opinion. He tells us before, that the Poet must make his Dramatic Persons speak according to their Quality, Age, and Nation; that a Shepherd, a Man of Quality, a Frenchman, and a Bramin of the Eafl Indies should not talk all alike, without any diflindion of. Character. This our Magnify d shake fpear has obferv’d, one of his chief Excellencies ؛ being his distinction of chara&er, and I believe this Gentleman would not think it proper that 'Dzcke, in the Trip, Should speak like Sir Harry Wild air, c. So thus far 
٠ ٠_ .... ٠־ 
t ٠42) 
Ariftotles Rules of Comedy will sit Drury-lane, and as for the Mechanic Rules of the Unity, tho’ extremely conducive both to Pleafureand Excellence. yet they are the last dwelled upon by the Noble Critic in his Poet mes, which are full of Lessons as true and as excellent as these 1 arid it is their evident Truth and Value that maintains their Esteem with all that ever read them, not die Prefcriptioa of 2.000 Years. There is no ipse dixit made use of, and he appeals to Reason alone, and Nature in all that he says, and till this Gentleman can convince us, that Reason and Nature are things incompatible with the English Drury·lane Stage, Arijlotle will be admir’d, and of all too in Drury-lane as much as at Athens, If his Philo. sophy had been built on so firm a Bails it had Rood to this Day, and no body that knows anything of the Reception and Rejecting of the philo fcphical Writings of Arifiotle ^ but knows there is no parallel in the cafe betwixt either his Rhetoric and Poetu 
ques 
( 43 ا), 
ques) and them. Le Clerk in his lb gic. at .the same time that he con futes his Dialeftics extols his criti cifm; bqt this is a Spbje& too Copi. .US for a Letter, and I shall keepsy more extensive Argument's till we meet: For toanswerall that has been said again him, a Man need only show what Aristotle says, as .the Man that rose up'and walked before the Sophist that argu’d again Motion., Before I conclude I mu fay‘two ء.or 'three Words to fet - the Gentleman right ', as to Socrates ( one of the be Mentliat ever lived without the bene sit f the Christian 'Religion )Jhe was nohe of the Sophirters, hut a 'lover' of Truth, and a confounder of those who built more on Form and Words, thaa Matter and truth, anddy’d 'a Mar. tyr for the Unity of th Godhead, and his Death, compafsd by Arijlom phanes) 'in .feme meafiire, is now ho nour to therrofeffion. 
FINIS; 
