
THE
GODFREY F. SINGER MEMORIAL PRESENTED BY
MR. AND MRS. JAOOB SINGER
— • • M. — * *

4
. >
>
I
**
. '
#
THE
Platonic Lovers :
9
CONSISTING OF
Original LETTERS,
I N
PROSE and VERSE,,
That pass’d between an English Lady, andl
an English Gentleman in France, under the borrow’d® Names of Clio and Strephon j who took an,. alfeftion to each pther, by reading accidentally one another’s occasional Compositions.
WITH
.A
A Critical ESSAY; containing Some
Remarks upon the Nature of Epistolary and Elegiac Poetry; and on the most beautiful Pajfages in these Epistles. By the Ingenious Mr. John Porter.
r * ' \
The Third Edition, Corrected.
% _______________ _
■ But oh! encroaching Mortal as thou art,
“Let JHII thy Spirit have the greateji Part;
f ‘ Tou may admire me all the Ways you can;
• “Give me the Lover, but keep back the Man
»
to Strephon, 79.
LONDON:
Printed for John Wilford, at the Lhree flower de luces behind the Chapter house, near St. Paul's; and Richard Chandler, at the flozver de l, iice without Tymple bar. M, pcc, XXX II
»
I
\
«
'N
X
r
V
\
0
0
0
DI

4 0
THE
CONTENTS.
TO Strephon, who having had a fine D<?
scription of clio’j Petfon, by a Lady from whom he firji received clio’j Verses in Commendation of a Book which he had pub lifpd, sent a Letter., figmfying his Define to see her. Page i.
An epi[ile from Strephon to Clio; wherein he sends his Soul before to prepare her, and tell her the indifferent Figure of his whole per fion., that she might not be surprised when he came to see her. 4.
clio’j Answer, by wa of Dream., in her ^, jfine Garden on the. Plain of St. Dennis. 7.
Going with an Intent to see Clio, hut not f bold enough to inquire for her: Or, the Com p bat between Hope and Fear. i o.
Taffoh Jerusalem. Book the second. 15.
^ A Fragtnent from the third Book of taffo’r VI Jerusalem. 37.
S' ISO
4
T he C D N T E N T S.
■ffi? Strephon, on his excellent Verses, and on his Version of Tasso. 49.
srrephon’r Answer, being in a Dream; or, the Recapitulation. By way of Dialogue. .52.
‘to Strephon, in Answer to the foregoing Letter. 59.
To Strephon. 63.
Strephon to Clio. 66.
Clio te Strephon. -68.
Dn clio’i Letter, wherein Jhe tells me of hefsicknefs, and received on the Eight when the great 'Storm of Thunder and Lightning was. 69.
An Answer to Clio (who speaks of pla tomck Love) sent to her just after her recovery., 73.
'To Strephon, in Answer to both Ms (admirable idetters, of his Illness and Plato nick Love. 7-6.
To Clio, of whose Recovery Strephon was just then informed; wherein he tells her of his Love. 81.
To Strephon. s4.
'To Clio, who just After she dblls me, Jhe gives me Leave to love, which Jhe exprejfes < in the finest of Verses, tells me in a Letter just
after, that Jhe's going to a Brother in Spain. 86.
In
The C O N T E N T S.
In anfw.er to two Letters finds
me: In one he tells me his Passion is increased., ^ in the other advises to go to Spain. jpage'h^.
strephon’j Complaint continued. 9, 4.
To Strephon. ^7.
An Answer o clio’j lost Letter", where to heal my Complaints, Jhe offers me Friendship instead of Love", and on a Report that Clio (when Jhe gave me Leave to love) was married at that very Time, or aflually near it. 100
Clio to Strephon, having Jent me twenty Prose Letters to excuse that Sally of pajjion, into which <feykufjlsfforth in .his lajl Letter of Verses, uponaiffdife vreportithat A Lady gave out, of ftiylberngmarricd. 105.
Strephon ^oj^liio. ' 106.
Clio /d)^strephon. 109.
Strephon Tc»c; Glip. III
To Strephon, onmtmoem, entitled buck ingham house.
The Interview, being in the Spring, just after Strephon had been very much affixed
with Illness, andfome private Disappointments
in Life. 116, 119,
cliod piuure. By herself. 122.
A critical Essay, containing Jome Remarks upon the Nature of Epijiolary and Elegiack
Poetry
The CONTENTS.
Poetry, and the most beautiful Faffages in the foregoing Epistles of Clip and Strephon. By way of Letter from Mr. John Porter, to his Friend Richard Pocock, of turbeld court,
VIN
the County of Bucks, Esq Page 125,
«
• 0
\
THE
I
«
TO
Mrs. judith B O N D.
MAT) A M,
^ ^ any Poet of Figure
hassheen ever known
II to pass free, and with Success,
into any Part of par najffusj without having first paid hi Compliments to Beauty. As almost all Men, once at least in their Lives,
are, according to their public Profess
0
stons and Behaviour, pashonately court
A 2 y
\
DEDICATION.
ly to it; So it would be, indeed, awon der, is the prosessors of the gentlest Art, should not, at slime Time or other, show themselves din their Writings. verses are, by their sost Nature, won dersully well adapted to express, pathetically, and harriioniousty, the Tendernesses .of Love, and the Triumphs of Beauty; and then to whom, but to a Lady equally Good, Lovely, Beautiful, and Ingenious, should they be dedicated, and made Sacred? From hence, Madam, arise Some of my Motives for offering this little present to you, who have always So many constant Charms, that you need not add to them, by being surpriz’d into a Sudden and accidental Blush at the Accep
r
tance of it, when you are first told it consists of a Collection of loye 'verscs.
It
%
DEDICATION, V
It is not a stngular Sentiment, but it is the receiv’d Opinion of the wisef and better Part of Mankind, that a Subject more noble and delicate than' liab of Honourable Love, (and it is upon to the Sollowing verses were, sormm,) cannot enter into the Heads or Hearts of Men and Women; nor can a Theme more Sweetly pleasing, or more exquisitely elegant, employ the Pens of poetic Writers, or the Eyes of polite Readers of either Sex. You, Madam, who peruse the Works of the best Spirited Writers, with a Genius like their own, must have remark’d with pleasure, this pretty Passage in the Celebrated Cabo of Air. Addison,
4
The Strong, the Brave., the Virtuous, and the wisc,
Sink in the Soft Captivity together.
A ^ Amidst
VI DEDICATION.
Amidst the Conflicts which this Pashon excites in human Breasts, this Soft Captivity is the agreeable and welcome Portion of our Sex, and Victory is the glorious Share of yours. Thus, while the strong, brave, virtuous, wise Men joy and pride themselves in becoming the voluntary Captives of the Fair; the strong, brave, virtuous, and wise Women need not certainly be a shamed of their Conquests. I join the Epithets strong and brave to Women; first, because that finer Half of
the Species may compare Records with the other at any Time, and count out with them Heroines for Heroes, whole Actions shine as eminent, and blaze as illustriously bright in Story: And Secondly, because I am likewise authorised in it by the most fine znd we lb
bred Exprestion of the greatest inspired
dedication; Vic
red Sage that ever lived, Solomon who (when he charmingly Says, A strong and virtuous Woman., who hall find? Her fprice is above Rubies., and he deserves being sought for to the utter — most Bounds of the Earthj shows that it is the highest: Point of wisdom to endeavour to obtain her. Wit therefore is certainly employed with Wiss dom, when it is directed to this End; and verses, that are made to win law
^ ^ ^
fully upon the Affections of good and valuable Women, are not only what Poets may very commendably write, but Philoshphers themselves may read, and own themselves pleased at readings without the least Offence to their great Gravity and Prudence.
What I have here remarked, Is abundantly Sufficient to correct the
A 4 wrong
\
\
vhi dedication.
*
wrong Judgement of slime Men and wo men, and to argue and convince them of their being too rigidly devout, and too austerely (not to Say morosely) wish, who miscall every Composition of this Nature, a vain Endeavour to pay Idolatry to Beauty, which they unreashna bly Sail out with for being transient, as all the best Bleshngs and Posseshons
besides on this Earth are. What is
^ »
this better than a preposterous Complaint against the finest Eyes, becaush, though they Shine like Stars, they do not last as long, and enjoy not as much. of their Duration, as they possess of their Lustre. Thesh are the People, who would lupercilioufly Sorbid all the written Raptures of this kind, though they are as honest and mannerly as they are natural. This ill Opinion of a Severe elder Sort of People, in one
Extreme,.
DEDICATION. IX
r
Extreme, took its rise firsl out of a too sar carried Spirit of Opposition to the still worse Opinion of a gayer Set of JO mg People, who had run into a contrary Extreme, and valued no verses but what ought to be contemnm, and were written in a vile unmannerly Spirit of Debauchery. these erred vehemently on both Sides; the first seemm to
f
think, there was no shch Thing as being grave, without being dull, because the. Second knew not how, according to the Proverb, to be merry and wife. The
Mirth of one was turned into Disso
#
luteness, and the Sobriety of the other into sadness; as if there was no Medium between a Libertine, and a Stoic, between an Epicure and a Cynic, or in more commoh Words, between aa airy ill-bred Rake, or a Surly ill .bred Clown.
A $ ima
in
/
f
X dedication:
mafdam,
The wiseft philosbphers among the Ancients, thought of Beauty and Love aster a more just, and a more refined Manner; that is to Say, more like rational Men, and more like fine Gentlemen. I know this is an uncommon Way of Speaking to Ladies, especially concerning a Book of Poetry and Love; but then I am Speaking to a Lady whose Abilities are uncommon, and will justify me if I proceed to Speak to her in shch a Manner, as shows I know she never thinks Good Sensh removed from Good Breeding. In the Opinion of rlatoy (whole Life and Character you have read,) Beauty is a human Splendour, amiable in its own Nature,
that has the Power to ravish the Mind
0
through the Eyes. We are told by Some
Authors’,
dedication. XI
Authors, that the divine Socrates was charmed So far with Beauty, as to be in love with Theodata., the then reigning Belle of Athens. The grave, the Severe the stern Cato., had Such a profound Reverence for Beauty, that he was often heard publicly to profess, It was no less a Crime to injure it., than to sack a Temfle. How near does this glorious moral Heathen approach to the inspired Sentiments, received by the true Gentlemen of Christianity, who are by their excellent Doctrine, (that is to ‘say, in otherwords, in Spite of young Cavillers,) the Best Breeding in the world, taught to look upon the Fair ones, as So many Temples, in which the Deity takes pleasure to inhabit, and therefore have a divine Fear to utter anything that may pollute their Ears, or to offer anything that might any Ways injure their
Modesty
XII DEDICATIO Ni
Modesty and Honour? A Patriot and a Philosopher that could Say So fine, Sh good, and courtly a Thing, deservm to be the Father of Such Daughters as fporem is describ'd to be by our Shake -- ' fpeari, and ffiafcia by oiir Addifin.~ d. clio’s Lines are all of Slich a Sort, as might have been inscribed to Ladies of their Taste; and, is they had been less refined, they should not have been pre sented to you. For a Veneration, next to that, which a Roman would
have paid to a Daughter of Cato, I would desire to pay to a granddaughter' ' Thomas Bond, who acted sh brave,
So loyal, and constant a Part on the Side of King in the Adversity
of his Exile; and aster his happy Restauration, made shch a conspicuous and praiseworthy Figure in his Court, that fiis Character, if drawn at full
• ft
Length
dedication, xiii
Length by a good Historian, would be a national Benefit, by the glorious Pattern it would afford to Succeeding Gentlemen, how to comport themselves in Places of the greatest Importance, Trust, and Honour, in those two very different seasbns, the Days of Adversity as well as Prosperity, and how to behave themselves with Integrity, Prudence, Motleration, and resolution, in the due Management of Royal treasures.
You will find, Madam, that cheer full Kind of Humour, and that quick Sort of Wit prevail in her Manner of Writing, which public Fame commends you for, and by which, with an agreeable Violence, you acquire a powerful and a pleasing Command over all the little polished Assemblies of both Sexes, that you charm, adorn, and enrich by
your
XLV DEDICATION.
your desirable Conversation. There is not a Single Epistle of hers, that inspires the Passion of Love, but what at the Same Time very naturally and gracefully insinuates the Love of Virtue, and a great deal of useful Knowledge; and So, while it innocently engages and moves the Heart, nobly rai ses the Genius, and mends the Mind. Thus Chastity and Complacency may be Said to go hand in hand with every Composttion, which has always an Air that is at once virtuous and obliging: All this is So well perfyrmm, and So dexterousty executed, as to make the goodness of each pretty Reader more beautiful, by tempting her to wear an innocent and graceful Smile at the Peru
lal of the innocent and gracesul Turns that are to be met with frequently in her Letters, amidst the Surprising Train
of
DEDICATION, XV
of Sudden Joys, and Sudden disquiets, Fears, Hopes, Doubts, Assurances,
Jealousies, Confidences, Disappointments, Expectations, Pains, pleasiires, Animoshies, Renewals of Friendship, which Love creates, with a Variety of other Vicissitudes, the different Descriptions whereof cannot Sail of entertaining. Where, and what Harm is in all this, that Should make love verses Hand in need of any Apology, to the most: grave reserv’d persbnages living? But then the wrongly Gay, who delight in salse Mirth, may learn too in their Turns, that in order to make love verses want no Such Apology, a very Scrupulous and religious Regard muss be had in treating So nice a Sulyect. What Fire, and yet what Purity of Thought; what a vehement Ardour,
and
xvj b E DI C A T I O N.
'* ^ -
and yet what an exact Chastity of well weigh'dwords and Expressions; in fine, to Say all at once in two beautiful Words of Pliny Sy what a sanbity of Manners must: reign throughout all Such Love pieces? Siich Pieces, I mean, as are to Show the delicate and nicely temperm, natural Warmth, (that is to Say,) the lise and Vigour, without any one of the irregular impulses, without any one Symptom of the intemperate and exces five Heats, (that is to Say,) the Fever
and the disease of Love. Writers in these Descriptions of the warm Affections, either in their own or other modest Breasts, would do well to have an Eye to the Description given by Tacitus (whose History you have in English) of the fine Samous Mount Lib anus, which, he Says, was jhady among great
Heats
dedication.' XVII
Heatsj and faithful to the Snow, it
bore upon it.
4
How much Clio intended to do So in these Epistles, let two of her own Lines, taken out of them, express.
/
Chaste as Onndd.%, let my Numbers flow.
But with ajirea'% Warmth inspire the Snow.
And what She Says of your humble
_ _ <,
Servant Strephon's Letters, upon the lame Account, is the best, ‘is (as I h^ve reasbn to fear) not the only cdmmen dation they deserve.
t
I read thy Soul, tho’ to thy Form unknolvn, And guess its gentle Temper by my own; Thou art compajiionate, Angels are.
And hast of friendless Innocence a Care.
To
f
XVIII DEDICATION.
To Beauteous Chastity 1 See thee bend, n The Goddess does into thy Soul descend, /
And with victorious Chaplets crowns myc Friend.
Thy temperate Veins do with her licence move, /
For she allows of Poetry and Love, ' ^
Which, as Sweet ivajler lings, is all they
do above, ’
With modest Warmth stie gives them leave te beat,
Nor bids me disapprove the Godlike Heat.
It was, upon these Same Accounts,
that that curious Writer and excellent
Divine, Doctor Sprats late bishop of Rochester Said, He was not ashamed
to COMMEND jvfr.cowleymistress.
I am not only not ashamed for my Part,
but
DEDICATION, XIX
but proud to Say, that the Book of that
most witty, as well as most modest Poet, was the Delight of my younger Years;
and to reflect that, when I was a Boy, I could even only chuse to repeat many pretty Passages, which he, when a Boy, wrote, in Such a Manner, as to give pleasure to persbns of mature Age and Judgement; though perhaps I might be more excusable not to have mendoned this, having Since learned lb little from fb great a Master. But you will have Some Favour for a near Relation of your own, for having been So early an Admirer of Mr. Cowley., who was the Favourite of your great Ancestor, his best Patron, the Earl of Kt. Albans., and wrote many of his most celebrated Pieces, while he lived a darling Domestic
in that Seat, which descended
from
XX dedication.
from that Earl, his Mecanas, to your grandsather the Lord Jermyn. If I have copied but Sew of the Beauties of Mr. Cowley, I bring you my muse Clio, who is a Rival to Mr. Cowley much admired onnduj and cannot, I believe, be thought inserior to her. And whatever Figure a Poet may make in his own person, he is contented if the muse, that inspired him, be applauded.
- • - ■
I MUST take notice to you, Madam, of one Thing, which you will find more at large by perusing the Book, That these Letters pass’d through the Hands of many Friends, and by that
> 9.
Means Copies of them were publicly Seen, when the Writers of them had never Seen one another, and So Sell into
y
the
/ h
/
DEDI C A t IO N. XXI
the Hands of a Gentleman, who published them, and inshrib’d themr^ to a Perfbn of Such Worth, as I am proud to be able to call my Friend, Sir
Richard Steele, whose Commendation
• * %
join’d with that of Several other moss ingenious persons, had first, I believe, made them fb much and ib favourably taken notice of: If it had not been for that Accident, they had never appeared
at all; and now they do appear the Southeast
♦
condtime, by the Demand the Public, has made for them, Strejhon himself thought it more proper to recommend them, through yours, to the Favour of the Ladies.
1
M A TA 3t ]
XXII DEDICATION.
I
0
MAT) AM,
I have run into a large Preface to a little Book, when I intended to be forming a Dedication of it, and have made it, in a Manner, Time to end, before I can be almost properly Said to have begun my Design.
Bowing, theresore, as I write, I beg
you to accept this little Present, and take it into Favour; and by way of
Thanks for your kind Acceptance of it,
I must only offer this onewish before I
take my leave. -- If, while you are
amusing yourself with this Book, and with Some Reflections it may awake concerning the Power and Triumphs of; Love and Beauty, you Should happen one Day to approve some happy fine Gentleman fox a Husband, out of the
Nnm
DEDICATION, xxlii
Numbers which your Qualifications must have made your just Admirers; I need only wilh that he may be as well descended, as you deserve; as happy in Virtue and Fortune, as you will make him in your Tove; that he may be as beautisul in his person, and as helov’d by all his Acquaintance, as my dear Friend your Brother; that he may make Such an indulgent Husband as your Mother enjoyed; and if Heaven thus calls you to Marriage, and blestes you with Children, I need only wish for your consummate happiness, that they may Show Such an equal tender, and obliging Duty to their Parents, as you and your Brother have ever ex crcised towards yours.
I COULD not posiibly wish you less, and Invention itself cannot posti
bly
XXIV D E D I C A T I O N.
bly help me to stame a Wish that will be more for your happiness; and theresore with that I will conclude, taking
Leave, under my poetical Name, to call myself, Madam,
Tour Most Obedient.,
*
Most fdevotedj And Most Humble Servant
r
9
0
STREPHON.
r
\
THE
O F
Clio and strepston".
mrnmmarnmi^mmma till mu ■ ihm ■.,.. ■■■ !■■■ i ■ ■ i ■ mnimiini^
To Strephon,
Who having had a fine Defcriptson of cliov Version, by a Lstdy from whom he first received clioh Verses in Commendation of a Book roftch he had published, sent alet ter, figdtfyifig his Desire to see her.
N. B. 'The two £rli Copies ef Verses are mtftaid, and. not to be found. '
BROUD to be prais’d by thy excelling Pen,
With partial Eyes I view my Form again j Yet nothing there to my Advantage find, v But the good-humour glowing in my f
Mind, f
Which thy inipiringverfe had left behind, J
B ' AH
I
z Clio to Strephon,
All I can boast, is by thy Hand bellow’d j
And I return it back from whence it flow’d.
From flatt’ry fb, fb artfully exprels’d.
Who can defend a vain Poetic brcafl?
In foftefl: Sounds ’tis to the Heart apply’d:
Ah! lyho can be insensible of Pride? - ]
If thy great Sire would crown my Ibft Design,
i’d raise thy Vanity, as thou do’ft mine.
To rile in Verse ray Thought has vainly try’d,
Apollo's thine; and partial to thy Side,
No Beara upon ray barren Fancy shines j they’re all contra<£ted to thy stronger Lines.
Thy Fame and Merit, equally secure
Would bear — — but how should I the Tefl: eri
dure?
All o’er Confusion I thy Eyes should meet.
And blu(l)ing, from the nice Survey retreat.
Far from the Picture thy bright Pencil wrought I should, by thee, as by my self, be thought: j I should a Coward grow, and fink with Fear,
Tho’ Distance gives me some Assurance here:
But heav’n forbid that you (hold ever see That Outside, which the vulgar World calls Me'.
Trust me, bright Youth, no Danger would appear.
Or to your Eyes, or your well judging Ear.
Nature has been ungentle to my Face,
: With artless.fingers fhadow’d ev’ry Grace:
ife Deep
V
Clio to Strethon. j
* Deep has (he left her cruel Marks behind.
As if (he meant to fear my very Mind.
My Skin fly sullied with a flillow Hue,
That Icarce my Soul is seen to sparkle thro’ :
A little Voice my kinder Stars have lent.
By which they mean to hush my Difeontent j Elle could I scarce my Imperfections bear,
m’unpleafing Perfbn, and my Pealant Air.
Nor can I at the odious Glass attend, In hopes these hapless Features to befriend, :
Careless and dull, Pve scarce a Wish to please
Fond of this Solitude, and humble Ease.
Here I forget my own unlovely Form j Laugh at the world, too low to feel the Storm
Which does the potent Buftlers oft invade,
And (hakes the taller Poplars of the Shade.
Happy and Rich, if my mean Song can raise rhy Plealiire, or excite thy tuneful Lays.
whate’er thy Perlon be, I Ihali o’er pafs;,
Who would throw Diamonds by, to look on Glass?
Dr who would mind the Stars imperfect Light,
When the great God of Day attracts the Sight?
CLIO,
% -
b2 an
0
^ I .it ■ ■ .r ~
• The Lady had the Small fopc j but a very little..
\
A N
r
Et t o t
-» ■ izi
«
F ROM
Strephon to Clio,
Wherein he sends his Soul before to prepare her, and tell her the indifferent Figure of his whole Rerfon, that ffe might not he furprizfd when he came to see her.
BH E N clio’s ]aft he first began to read V
Thus sighing to himself, her Strephon C
Sighing, as if that Sigh foretold him dead.
Well then thou pant’d (my Soul!) thou would’ft depart, From strephon’s Bread, and fly to clio’s Heart!
Yet learn (my Soul) and, oh! betimes beware, ^
Too well thou know’ll the Danger of the Snarcj i r „|^ow wsak thy self, how powerful the Fair. ^
If
Strephon to Clio' %'
go thou wilt, in this last Breath be gone, ’
But drive, be fiire, strive hard, or thou’rt undonei
When clio’s Lines afresh thy Strephon read,
Thus his Soul answ’ring to thy Strephon said >
Strephon then half languishing, half dead. 3
Yes, tho’ (he’s born by Nature to subdue,
By Heavens, ’tis glorious Fate. - ' and i’ll pursuer
Conquer she can but fare she can’t undo:
But if she can — — and tb>id...... i’ll be her Pritce;
For if my Niggard Stars won’t let me Rise, ■ ^
Oh! let me fall hy Chxo's brighter Eyzs. 3
Just at these Words he felt his Strength decay, x
And, finking in a Trance, he strove to say, C
Oh! bear these Words, my Soul, then fleet awayi '
Tell her, in this, her Strephon did enrol, j With tend’reft Wishes, his departing Soul.
Oh! beg her take thee to an angel’s Rest,
And sold thee kindly in her balmy Breast.
Tell her, their Spirit to her Soul shall cleave, ’
^ /■
When on her Breast the panting Verses heave:
Then if thy Body ling’ring comes behind,
To seek its Treasure, and its Soul to find 5 Oh! tell her by what am’rous Marks ’tis known, '
Left its thin Frame be fliiver’d by her Frown:
B j tes
I
’i Strephon to Clio;
Tell her, that as in some Poetic Scene Ghofls are defcrib’d to skim along the Green
So, if she e’er defciies on Dennid Plain,
A tall and thin, a pale dejected Man,
Awkward in Port, and overwhelm’d with Spleen,
In whom the Image of Despair is leen;
Tell her, with Anger not to arm her Eye,
ut pleading Mercy — — • whisper— — — ~ is I.
Say, that thus far I of that Figure boast.
That Clio got the Soul, and made the ghojl If with her Smile fly will that Loss repair, i’ll mend and alter that dejected Air,
Bid her wjt’i Tenderness the Viliort ule.
And be my Mistress, as fly is my Mule.
Say, you ray soft Ambassador was sent.
To beg her Bofoni for my easy Tent;
That, like a trembling Bird by Parents lost, '
harm’d by ungentle Hands or nipping Frost; f /
Pining I must, and melancholy stray,
Till love, and she, revive and make me gay.
i’ll do it all, the Soul departing said,
'And bid the Body fall entirely dead.
\
Strephon.
'.... t ^
%
V clio^s
mr
'BY
Way of DREAM,
IN
Her Fine Garden
ON THE
Plain of St. Den n i s.
D ay, by what mighty pow’rs harmonious
Our spiritstympathize and correspond?
As thy soft Soul departed from thy Breast, Mine, with unusual Tenderness opprefs’d. repos’d within a melancholy Shade,
Where Nature has my little Study made:
Clole are the Boughs to one another join’d.
That only Clio can an Entrance find.
I
B 4. Sad
£
8 Clio to strethojq’.
Sad Philomela had begun her Song;
And Love and Music warbl’d on her Tongue Tho’ of her Lover she so sweetly plains,
To thine, oh! how inferior arc her Strains!
charm’d by thy Verse, and by her Songs to rest, ’
My yielding Eyes the God of Sleep confefs’d:
But tho’ his leaden Rod triumphant reign’d.
My grateful Hand, with Care, thy Lines contain’d. Methought I heard a tuneful Voice behind, V
Oh! where shall I the gentle Clio find? C
Guide me. Sweet Boy, for thou hast made me V blind. • “
Soft was the Sound, as Winds that brush the Grass,
And sighing o’er the falling Bioflbms pafsj Or as poor Ecchds Voice, when, out of Breath,
Her panting Lungs have figh’d themselves to Death.
The gloomy Arbour suddenly grew bright, A
And I beheld a lovely Youth in white, C
Supported by two Gods, both Strangers to my C
Sight. ^
They both ■were crown’d, methoughts, but difererit Ways’, The one with Lovers Tears, and one with Bays:
But as I gaz’d, an Arrovo straight appear’d.
My Heart beat fast, and for its Safety fear’d.
Oft had I Seen the Boy on Canvas glow.
But scarce e’er felt the Power of his Bow.
Apollo led thee trembling to my Feet;
I rose methought, thy lovely Form to meet j
And
XILIO to btrephon. 9
And as my Eyes more curiously lurvey’d,
I law your Robe of deathless Numbers made, C
Which, as you graceful mov’d, around you play’d.
Your languid Eyes were to the Earth declin’d j Yet, as they downward bent, the Mufcs (hin’d.’
The am’rous Myrtle bloom’d upon thy Breast,
And thus thy tuneful Soul it self exprels’d.
A TREMBLING Bird, that has its Parents lost, ’
Wounded by cruel Hands and nipping Frost j Pining, alas! I melancholy stray,
Till Love and Clio fraile, and make me gay.
From strephon’s Bolbm I this Night am fled ^ I cry’d. Is then my Poet dead? ^
My Arms I folded, and declin’d my Head. ' ^
Adieu sweet Poetry! Expire my Lays,
Or only live to sigh and fing his Praise.
A finer Voice no Youth could ever boast.
He charmed the World, but clio’s Heart the most
Oh! that ray Fate would one Request allow j i’ve heard of Transmigration, grant one now:
Permit his Soul to dwell in clio’s Breast,
Let hers depart, and fly away to Rest;
Por it is weary of this wretched Clay,
Wants higher Joys, and longs to wing away
Sure, there are better Worlds, * than this, above.
Where there is Innocence and faithful Love:;
B s Sm^;
4
: io Clio to btrephon.
Small Diffhence ’tween our Bosoms would be known; For clio’s Passions all are like his own.
t
hee Sorrow, such as Verse can hardly paint.
Withheld my Voice, and made my Spirits faint.
I wak’d, and found my lovely Vision fled,
And figh’d, as I forsook my grassy Bed, >
Oh! live my Strephon, ’till I wifii thee dead ^

4
-
J
. p _ Going
m •
s
Going with
An Intent to See C LIO,
But not bold enough
To Inquire for Her:
)
OR, THE
COMBAT
4
BETWEEN
\
HOPE and FEAR:
LESS me! how strange the Hearts of Men
This Moment bold, and yet the next
With whatvaft Joys, what Ecllafies, infpir’d,
Did I propose to see whom I admir’d?
Big with w'w Hopes I march’d securely on.
And thought i’d Com age to be so undone.
But
• 4
12 Strephon to Clio,
But when I reach’d the Confines of the Place,
To which, tho’ graceful, thou do’fl add new Crace, C My beating Heart began to fink apace;
How did it pant with Joy, and wiili ’twas near.
And yet, when ’twas so, palpitate with Fear?
Now,, by thy Charms allur’d, I seek the Track,
arm’d with fresh Hopes 5 fresh Fears affright me back. Thy av/ful Beauties, in my .Mind, I view,
And Hopes and Fears alternately subdue.
’twiis in that doubtful Hour of love debate,
When now I courted, and then (hun’d my Fate:
’twas then (my conqu’ror!) that before my Sight My Thoughts presented thee divinely bright:
Twas then, that all thy mighty self appear’d,
Like Venus lov’d, but like Minerva fear’d.
All the three Craces triumph’d in thy Face,
And in thine Eyes did light’ning Clories blaze:
Next on my self I call: a low Regard,
And ask’d my Bosom how it flood prepar’d?
v/hat Merits it could boast, that humble I Should risque the Vengeance of that pov/’rful Eye?
r
It told me, ’twas profane to wilh the Joy,
And light’niiigs, what they gilded, might destroy.
My Fears vere to a giant’s Stature grown,
And not a v/ifn I dat’d to call my own j
lo
Strethon to Gli5; ' i'j'
In Agonies confus’d, flny Heart was toss*d,
And all my Hopes were in a Pannick lost.
Thus, strange mysterious Cowardice in lovek I lose the Minutes, which I should improve.
In Love to Death with her I never law j
_ •
I run to see — — and, e’er I lee, withdraw.' '
S 0 the bold Boy, untrain’d to Martial Art,
Proud of th youthful Blood that warms his Heart;
With some great hero’s written Worth inlpir’d.
By borrow’d more, than real Courage, fir’d.
Flies to a Siege, and thirsty for Renown, '
With his own Hand he takes, in Thought, the Town j But when the light’nings blaze, and Thunders roar,
Wishes the Safety, he delpis’d before.
0
Yet, as the Youth once frighten’d, with Delight May read again, and, fir’d again, may fight,
’till his Sword, tracing those recorded Deeds,
Transcribes, on yielding Walls, the Worth he reads:
So vvill I read those pow’rful Lovers Arts,
Who, their own vent’ring, won fair Ladies Hearts:
Meanwhile, remember hovo my Soul is lost.
And animate with Verse thy hovcps Ghoji.
Thou know'st, thou said’ft my Form thou wou’dft o’er
pass,
And love the Soul amidst its homely Cale.
Once
; j4 Strelhon to Clio.
I
Once more, ye heav’ns, inspire her foto (iagi i
And bring the News, my Angel, on thy Wing, ’
sxeephohi
P. S. Though I dare not come my self, I have ven* tur’d to do a Thing almost as bold j and that is, to send you two little Fragments of tad.o, which I have translated into the English. I believe you have read Fairfax, and then you will wonder, perhaps, that I, who could write no better, attempted them after so great a Man,
The two fragruents, that accompanied this Letter, having been recover’d by the Editor, are now inserted as follows, in their proper Place, in this new Edition.
^
>
*
r
tasso’s
^ : er
\
A S S O ’ s Jerusalem.'
BOOK the Second,
t — ifcl — — i ■ ■ ■! ■ n i II i i i II — i — — — ^ ■ — i — ^
— — m — ip i III — ■ I ■ II i — i — — ^1 — ^
^ ’
The Argument.
The chyijjidns hefiege the Town Ifmeno, an Aipofiate from chrif tian'ity^ and. a jkagjcuny advises the Infidel King to seize from the Chrifiiant, that rcere Inhabitants in his Toivny an Image of our Lady y and /; e, by laying that under Enchantment ffetended to frustrate all the Vefigns of the Besiegers Lhe King seizes the Imagey places it under strong Guards in a mof^ue The i??iage it surprised from the Guards. The Kiitg resolves upon a general Majfstcree of all Chris ianx in the Town unless the Offender be diff Covered Sophronia, a young Ckriftian Lady of flfuality^ takes the cri?ne upon herself J to save so many from suffering Olindo in Love with Sophronia, endeavouys to clear hey Innocencej and tifes Arguments to strove the Guilt wholly his own. The King condemns them both to be tied Back to Backto a Stake,, and burnt io deatk Clorinda, an Heroic Trincefs among the Infidels coming to offer her Ajjtftance in the Wars to the King viov d xcith this Spehacle of the condemned Lovers:, bind being acquainted with the Keafon^ Jufftended the Kxecutionj and then ftrocured their var don of the King
Era! HI L E thus the Tyrant, in his raging ^
sluicm Cliriftian Blood, and future Battles His barbarous Presence old Ifmeno fought
If mem
16 1 Absus jeruialem.
Ifmeno yawning Tombs of Marble made Yield up, in living Forms, their buried Dead.
Ifmeno could, by Force of Magic, make hell’s Monarch, in his own dread Regions shake;
Call Fiends, his Envoys, from their drear Abode,
And hold or loose them, at his powerful Nod.
A Christian once, now breaking Christian Vows
To Uahome he, with impious Homage, bowsj Yet midst his Charms, O vile Remains of Faith! Invokes both God and Satan in a Breath.
Forth from dark Caves, where, far from vulgar Eyes, He skulk’d to learn his art’s black Mysteries;
To Court he came, to Court black Arts did bring,
And grew Chief Council to the Tyrant King.
/
And thus he spoke, •, Lord, you see, the Foe, Flushed with the Old, does for New Conquests glow.
Our Trembling Town the near Approaches dreads. Thinks the black tempeft’s bursting over our Heads. ’tis oitrs, my Liege, to act a manly Part,
Fortune (lands, always, by the brave of Heart:
And well for us propitious Fates ordain.
That you should lead the Men, o’er whpm you reignj You, that do all Things, which a princely Mind Could for the subject’s Safety have defign’d.
Thus, in his Poll, if ev’ry Man behaves,
If thus each Subject acts, the Christian Slaves ^
Will gain but Ground enough to' make them Graves
>

\
• r
T A S S O ^ s ]emfalem. 17
For mci my Lord, I come to beg a Share Of all your Fortunes in the Course of War:
If abj that Ages best Advice can do ^
Pan serve you, nay, join Magic Science too, ^
ril ranfeck both, and offer all to you. ^
lil press the banilh’d Angels to your Aid,
They (hall your Counsels, they your Armies lead, ss And bear a Part in each heroic Deed. 3
But first it sits, that I unfold the Scene,
And tell you, whence th’inchantment shall begini Hid from our Eyes, within a Christian Fane Low in a Vault, an Altar long has lain.
Where, with great Pomp Priests show th’unletter’d Crowd, The figur’d Mother of their buried Cod:.
she’s call’d their Virgin, and before her Face Cold Lamps wi''h Oil seed a bright pageant Blaze':
These hang all round her, in long Order wrought. Which cred’lous Fools with wild Devotion brought, '
This your own Royal Hands must move away.
And to the sacred Molque the Prize convey:
There i’ll soon bind it down with wondrous Churmsi And lay such Spells upon the Christian Arms,
Our Walls, while that shall in my Hands remain, Attempt they may, but stall attempt in vain.
Full of this Speech, and big with his Advice, th’impetuous Monarch to the Temple fiiesi In vain the Priests a holy Refeue try’d.
He curs’d their pray’rs and Tears, their God defy’d:
Wickedly
; i8 T A S S o’s Jerusalem.
Wickedly resolute he seiz’d his Prey,
And bore it, with ignoble Pomp, awayi In his vile Chapel, where false Worship cries. ^ :
Too oft for Vengeance from th’affronted Skies, r With Sacrilegious Joy, he laid the Sacred Prize. ^
Straight his Magician sought th’unhallow’d Place,
And mutter’d Blasphemies around its Face.
'i. - ^ —
When the returning Dawn, with Streaming Light, Shot through the chequered Air, and streak’d it white. The Guards all wak’d, but wak’d with vast Surprise, The Image gone, they scarce believe their Eyes;
They seek it long, but long they seek in vain,
Then, in a Body, to their King complain..
The King stark mad, of ev’ry senfe bereft,
stamp’d, rav’d, and to the Christians swore the Theft
And fare that pious Robbery was done For Mother Church, by some religious Son j Or elfe high Heaven itself, that must disdain To see its Queen, in efbgy, remain So long impriibn’d in fb vile a Place,
stoop’d to its Aid with more immediate Grace,
But whether heav’n or Earth demands the Claim,
Rests undetermin’d by the Voice of Fame
Yet, of the two, ’tis best to judge it still Due, more to heay’nly, than human Skill.
Meat
T A S S O ’ s jerufalems 19
Meanwhile, their Rounds the busy Heralds march’d,
All Houles rifled, and all Churches fearch’d:
All Men were try’d to bring the Crime to Light,
That Racks could terrify, or Cold invite.
Ifmeno too his magic pow’rs employ’d.
But fruitless all his Dreams, and unenjoy’d:
For heav’n fif done or not by heav’nly Arms)
Clouded his Viflons, and fupprefs’d his Charms.
When the dire Tyrant found that nought avail’d.
That nor his Threats, nor his Rewards prevail’d j
Back on the Christians all his Rage return’d.
And his fierce Heart with Flames of Fury burn’d:
All Thoughts of Mercy in his Mind Ilibfide,
And Vengeance riles with a swelling Tide;
Till in these Words, while red his Eve balls roil,
•/
Forth rulh’d wrath’s Torrent, from his stormy Soul.. Since they have rout’d my Rage to this De V
gree, C
i’ll make their unknoyvn Robber knovo, said he, ' C i’ll reach him, in a general Maflacree. r
Yes, rather than that Wretch my Wrath shall fly,
Perish the Just, and let the guildefs die.
Just! — — who are just? — — That word’s unjustly us’d. To favour them, I have myself abus’d.
There lives not that one Man, among the rohole.
But would abjure my Title from his Soul,
.... ^
Theh>
20 tassojerufalem.
}
Then, grant some few of such vile Miscreants free i From the new Guilt of this Enormity;
Since former Crimes make good their present Doom
i’ll pay that mdent Grudge, I owe them. Home.
Up, Up, for honour’s sake, my Friends, your Lord T Speaks the Command, your Sovereign gives the Wordy Dispatch, and put them aril to Fire and Sword.
* ' II e < <. '
> •
Thus to the giddy Populace he faidj And in a Moment Same the Tidings Ipread:
The fatal Tidings reach’d the Christians Ears,
The fatal Tidings each aftonifh’d hears j Half thunder struck to find their Fate so nigh.
Merely for Fear of Death, they almost die.,
Quite of all Presence of their Minds depriv’d.
They no Defence, they no Escape contriv’d }
fram’d no Excuses, none they thought would pas.
Nor were they bold enough to beg for Grace.. Left to Despair, when all just Hopes were gone, ' Safety they found, where they could hope for none.
i
A Maiden, ’mongst their Number, chanc’d to be. Just in the Pride of her Virginity:
Her noble Mind a royal Greatness wears.
And early Wisdom meets her ripen’d Years j ' 0
Tho’ wond’rous wise, yet is she fair as wise.
But still that Beauty Seems not much to^pfize.
Or
. •> t.
I
1
T A S S O ’ s Jerusalem. 21;
Or prizes Beauty only, Vaule his sent
To be its Sister Virtues Ornament. '
This Jewel long within a Cottage lay
Obfeure, and cover’d from the Face of Dayi
whose Lustre clouded, as it were, in Night,
Doubled its Value, when it came to Light,
Free from Court Airs to Solitude Ihe flies.
From flattving Whispers and deluding eyesi Yet this fair Guardian of Ib sweet a Face,
can’t keep so dole, but one may snatch a Gaze;
And that, once gain’d, must surely breed Desire,
Where once to see is always to admire.
You, Cupid, restless that she lay conceal’d, '
To greedy Youth her tempting Charms reveal’d j You, that can feign, this Minute, to be blind.
And can, the next, more Eyes than Argus find;
You did, thro’ thousand Guards, with stolen Slight, ' ~ Ride, on the ray lhot Arrows of his Sight, C
To the chaste Object, and direct them right. S
OLINDO his, Sophronia was her Name, ’ '
Both in one Town were bred, their Faith the Same
Tho’ beauteous (he, he could witst Beauty vie.
And reach her modest Charms with Modesty :
Much lov’d hcjj little hop’d, no .Suit he mov’d.
He knew not how, or durst not lay he lov’d;
And, as for her, most certain Tis, that he His i.ove, or could notjr or fly would not fee:
•»
f
t
V
I
zi tasso’s Jeriifalenn
Thus all his (laving Pains, and anxious Care,
Or were unseen, or worse, unpitied were.
Meanwhile the dreadful News foe understood Of the near Deluge of the Christian Bipod.
Her Soul of all, that’s * great and gen’rous, made. summon’d its helpful Virtues to their Aid.
To manly Deeds this maiden’s Thoughts hipire.
But Virgin blufhes check the bold Desire
Alternate Virtues in her Mind contend,
Modefiy foiuns, what Courage would commend;
This gain’d the Point; or, rather, both agreed Themselves, by joiriing Forces, to exceed.
As while more brave, more bafoful Ihe became,
So Courage kindled with the blufoing Flame.
Abroad, amidst the gathering Mob foe goes.
Nor hides her Face, nor does her Face expose i She went referv’dly, but gcnteely well Beneath the decent Umbrage of a V eil;
’tvvas hard to lay, if Artifice or Chance Gave her a pretty Air of Negligence:
But sore all Nature, Love, and heav’n conipir’d;;
To fit her out for being most admir’d j And join’d their Strength together to impart Some nameless pow’r beyond the Reach of Art.’
The lofty Dame ador’d by all that view’d,
Unheedful pafs’d the gazing Multitude,
Till
9
9
TASS o’s Jemfklem. 23
Till to the Presence of the King she came,
Whole Eyes, all red with Anger, feem’d to flame.
Fearless she fac’d him close, her Ground maintain’d.
And a whole Storm of gloomy Frowns fuflain’d,
I COME, said she, my Lord (fb pray fulpend A while your Anger, and my Words attend, ^
I come to bring a welcome Sacrifice,
th’offender’s Head to pay th’oflence’s Price,
The King half smitten does the Fair behold Modestly brave and reverently bold:
His Looks chang’d strangely j lo! dispersing now
The lowering Clouds quit his unbending Brow,
Fury itself grew calm, and for a while His fallen Majesty vouchsafe to smile:
Her radiant Eyes alone with Sovereign Sway Could gild his gloomy Looks, and paint them gayl She, that, alone, such Conquests could imj>rove,
Disdains his Anger, and avoids his Love.
A Smile had don’t, but Smiles Ihe laid apart.
No backward Beauty wins a backward hearp;;
He feem’d to wish by Pity to be prefs’d.
While Joys unusual melt his hardy Breast.
t
Tell on (said he) so i’ll reprieve from Death The fond Aflbeiates of thine idle Faith.
Thew
»
24 T A S S O ’ s Jemfklem:
/
/
Then she * — — Criminal before you flandsi 'Mine ms the Theft, and these the guilty Hands;
Me, me you want; now Set your Heart at rest.
And empty all its Passions on my Breast.
Thus bravely lavish of her noble Bipod,
Her Head Ibe forfeits for the public Good:
O fair fac’d Fiction! where’s a Truth fe clear, ’
That equal Judges would to thee prefer?
The Tyrant paus’d; nor, as he wont to do.
Into warm paffion’s sudden Sallies flew
But calmly laid, — — I pray you. Maid, relate, '
Who was your Counsel and Confederate?
Said she. No Partners in my Trophies shine.
i’d the good Pride to make them wholly mine, Gloriously confeious to myself alone.
My own the Counsel, and the Deed my own
To juft‘revenge then, sternly he replies.
Thou, only thou, fhak fall a Sacrifice,
’tis just, indeed, said Ihe, ’tis meet that I,
Who singly gain’d the Glory, Singly die.
r
s
Swellins
I
TA S S O ’ s Jerusalem; 2 5
Swelling he ask’d her, with ofer awing Pride,
Where Ihe the Image had prefum’d to hide? C
I HID it not, the fearlels Maid replj’d, ‘
I offer’d up in Flames the sacred Pledge,
And fet it free from future Sacriledge :
Look for the Thief, but let the Theft alone j Here am I still, — — but that’s for ever gone: —
Know too i’m wrong’d in that opprobrious Name,
That was no Theft, nor I a Robber am j Justly I rescued a much injur’d Prey,
’twa^you unjustly ravifh’d it away.
Stung to the Soul, with what h’impatient heard.
His Teeth he gnafh’d, and all a Fiend appear’d:
He gives a Looie to his destructive Rage,
And certain Death his horrid Looks prelage.
Her noble Mind, chaste Heart, and charming Face,
Raise no remaining Glimpse of Hopes for Grace.
Love comes too late to interpose his Shield,
When Savage Nature grows too fierce to yield.
She is led Captive, and, all wild with Wrath, The Tyrant doom’d her to be burnt to Death.
Officious Russians round the Victim prefs’d,
prophan’d her Veil, and tore her sacred Vest.
Round her soft Arms, while hard rough Cords they ty’d. Her Breast just heav’d, but ne’er a Sigh fupply’d:
C Sileat
0
T a S S O s Jerusalem.
Silent foe stood amidst the clamorous Crew,
But ruddy Roles from her Cheeks withdrew :
Yet, when they vanifli’d, new appear’d to Sight,
Not sickly pale, but ravifliingly white.
The spreading News drew gath’ring Crowds to see. Spectators of the moving Tragedy :
Among the rest did young Olindo come.
None knew the Maid, all knew, too well, her Doom. Some iecret Dreads this youth’s fond Bosom move.
He knows not why, yet fears it is his Love.
This thought born Cries, e’er known, a real Pain Grows in his Fancy, and distracts his Brain.
But when he fetter’d law the beauteous Dame, ' Guiltiefs esteem’d, yet fentenc’d to the Flamej Saw all the busy Ministers of Fate,
'With greedy Cruelty, impatient wait;
Headlong he flew, and fhould’ring thro’ the Crowd,
To the icing’s Presence, thus he cry’d aloud.’" ...
Not she, not she is guilty of the Fact,
Vainly (lie boasts of what foe did not actj The Ample Maid is by herself traduc’d.
Prompted by Pride, through Folly felf accus’d;
.A Work so great, so full of Danger too.
She knew not how, foe durst not, could not do.
. <
,; How should fly all the prying Watch deceive?
And by what Art thepond’rous Image heave?
Eut
TA S S O ’ s Jerusalem. 2 7
■ * 1
But, if she did it, let her name the Way,
Twas I, my Lord, I bore the Prize away.
In Pain for her he lov’d, he courted Pain, ' ">
(Pity who lov’d so much, should love in vain) ^
And thus the, fatal Credit strove to gain. 3
Up your high Molque, just where the. Lamp of Day, Thro’ Chrystals perforates its lucid Way.
With wond’rous Pains I climb’d the steep Ascent,
And through a Breach almost impervious went.
The Honour and the Death is duo to me.
She (han’t uftirp the glorious Penalty.
Mine are those Chains, they rattled as I past.
And feem’d to bid me come with eager Haste;
For me the Fire stays, justly slow, awhile.
And here I claim it as my fun’ral Pile.
%
SOP HRO NIA rais’d her Head, with humble Grace, ’ Bent down till then, and fhew’d her blooming Face:
Her Face appear’d like op’ning Paradise,
And mild Compassion languifn’d in her Eyes,
Which turning meekly to the Youth, the Maid,
With all the Sanctity of Manners, said.
V
Hapless young Man! why are you ramy ccme
V
To draw down on you this untimely Doom?
C 2 Think
28 T A S S O ’ s Jerusalem.
Think you that i’m unable, without you.
To bear the worst the Rage of Men can do?
Know i’ve a Heart, that’s brave enough to die 'Without the poor Relief of Company.
These were her wor3s; but, fix’d beyond Control, remain’d the fatal Purpose of his Soul.
G glorious Pair! O mournful, pleasing Sight!
Where Love and Virtue amicably sight,
where"death’s the Laurel, that the Victor wears.
And safety’s all the 111, the vanquisti’d fears.
While each contends to merit all the Blame,
The gen’rous Conflict rais’d the tyrant’s Flame.
Then scornful said the King, with fnecring Spite, p In whose mifconstruing, and distionest Sight, f
They, with his Torments, feem’d his pow’r toflightj You both (hall triumph, both the Laurel gain,
Pity, who strive so well, (hold strive in vain.
His ready Slaves watch his imperious Nod,
And the, poor Youth with heavy Fetters load.
And now the loving Captives, Back to Back | Spitefully turn’d, are fasten’d to the Stake.
Now to a Pile the builded Faggots grow.
Broad the Blaze crackles, add the Bellows blow.
Bursting in Tears, and lamentably,
.The Youth complaining, thus belpeaks the Maid.
ft
And
TA s' S O ’ s Jerusalem. 2 9
'And are these then the Bonds, by which thou’rt ty’d, To my desiring Arms a lovely Bride?
Little I thought, that such would be the Fire,
Which foould with equal Warmth our Hearts inst>ire:
Far other Flames than these 1 hop’d to prove,
But fare there’s no such Cheat as flatt’ring Love.
Wish silken Ties he my fond Heart cnihai’d'.
But my cross Fortune Iron Chains prepar’d.
Too long these Arms thy absent Form repin’d.
And, now they meet, alas! in Death they’re join’d.
Me though my niggard Stars ne’er kindly led,
A joyful Confort to your happy Bed;
’twas kindly done of them to let me be.
At least a sharer in your Destiny.
Your cruel Lot I cannot help but mgsurri,
Not so my own, since near your Side I burn.
But, oh! how thoroughly happy were my Doom!
By heav’ns i’d blefe the pleasing Martyrdom,
If we were fiiffer’d Breast and Breast to join.
i’d breath my Soul from my own Lips to thine;
Then sucking, thy last hoarded Breath improve.
That Fate might take the Leavings of our Love.
This said, in Bitterness of Soul he sighs.
Whom Sweetly counselling, fly thus replies.
C 3 Quite
3© TA S S 0 ’ s Jerusalem.
Quite other Thoughts, and better Tears, my Friend, Our Cafe demands, and for a nobler End.
Think of your Sins, call all your Faults to Mind,
Think what Rewards converted Hearts will find.
Where Pleasure fills the infinite Abode,
Aud where the Promiser himself is Cod.
Bear in his Name these Pains; — ■ — they’h Joys become, Then wing thy Way to thine eternal Home:
The Sky how clear, behold, the Sun how bright I See how they comfort! Look how they invitel
The Pagan Mob, compaffionately bent,
v7ith their loud Cries the circ’iing Aether rent.
The sobbing Christians half afraid to moan,
choak’d their fwell’d Hearts to stifle in each Groans From mingled Cries a strange odd Hearing came.
Which pain’d the Ear with Sounds that want a Name; forc’d was the King himself to bear a Part;
It pierc’d his Ears, and reach’d his harden’d Heart:
He felt Compassion pouring in apace.
But had a strange Remorse to yield to Grace;
Chid his own Softness, yet he feadd to fiay.
turn’d his a if vanquisti’d Eyes, and stalk’d away.'
Yet while one Grief such various People prov’d,
Thou stoodst, Sophronia, ’midst the Flames unmov’d:
Thou
* * % ft
%
tasso’s Jerusalem. 3
thou’midst the gen’ral Groans, didst Silence keep,
Wept for by all, not once was seen to weep.
While thus the circ’iing Danger nearer grew.
One, like a Warrior drefs’d, appear’d in View:
Awful in Port, and in Demeanour high.
Full of such Grace, as spoke Nobility j Whose foreign Habit, and whose Arms proclaim Their Owner far from distant Nations came.
A Tygrefs grac’d the Helm, the famous Crest,
Each aw’d beholder’s gazing Eye postest :
In former Wars Clorinda wore the Sign,
All guess’d ’twas Ihe; nor did they wrong divine.
£
Early she learn’d, a Stripling, to despise The Modes and gayer Arts, which Women prize: Arachne's Looms and Needles flae difdain’d,
Nor let the Distaff soil her haughty Hand.
Free from the silken Indolence of Dress,
And from the wanton clofet’s soft Recefe,
She took a Pride, unusual, to maintain Her Honour spotless in the open Plain:
When yet a Child, fhe’d with her Infant Hand Guide foaming Bits, and fiery Steeds command;
Broad Faulchions brandish, and strong Spears fhe’d wield. And taught her Limbs to bear the hardy Field:
Cross Mountains high, thro’ deep thick woody Ways she’d urge stiagg’d Lions, and provoke the Chase.
I
C 4 Curious
32 tasso’s Jerusalem,
Curious to see, and to inquire what Fault To such a fatal End the. Captives brought.
She urg’d her neighing Steed'j ador’d she rode Thro’ op’ning Lanes, made by the yielding Crowd; And thus, arriv’d, addrefs’d, with awful State,
The chief commanding Officer of Fate.
Say who these Captives, speak the Reasons, why they’re doom’d to this unhappy Destiny?
Brief was his Answer, but completely good
He said nb more than just the Thing he stiould.
She heard it with ngreeable Surprise,
And both appear’d not guilty in her Eyes;
She straight refolv’d t’avert th’impending Blow,
If piayts or Tears, or Force of Arms would do;
Then to the Provosts of grim Death Ihe said.
In Words, that ffiew’d her born to be obey’d.
Dare not one Man, not one among you all.
Do the dread Duties of his bloody Call,
Till me your Monarch hears, hears what I fiy?
i’ll pafs my Word, he pardons the Delay,
Struck, by her godlike Presence, deep with Awe, ’ they’re all obedient, and confus’d withdraw.
She
TASSO s Jeruialem; 33
She to the Soldan did, with Speed, resort.
And chanc’d to meet him on her Way to Court.
I AM Clormda, said the Martial Fair,
That Name perhaps has reach’d your Royal Ear.
My Lord, T come, with Joy to guard in Sight,
Your Subjects Safety, and your Regal Right:
Ready, as you shall give the ready Word,
i’ll smooth the Paths of Danger with my Sword.
Name, or some great or humble Enterprise,
That I don’t dread, nor (hall I this despise;
But act, as your high Pleasure shall ordain.
Within the Walls, or in the open Plain.
Then thus the Kingi Where does that distant Land, Tho’ ne’er fb far remote from Asia, stand?
Where does that Region, so divided lie
From the bright Orb, that circles round the Sky,
But knows the trav’ling Honours of thy Name,
And sounds (O glorious Virgin) with thy Fame?
Since join’d with mine thy pow’rful Sword appears,
I take new Courage, and dismiss all Fears:
Were, now, whole Armies, on their March for me,
Less should I hope in them, than now in thee.
Now, now, methinks, each precious moment’s lost,
buwigni, too long, detains his lagging Host.
/
C y F — r — But
i
%
3 4 TA S S O ’ s jerusalem.
— But you inquire, what Feats you should pursue "2 I and the world (illustrious Virgin) know, ^
That hardest Tasks alone are worthy you; J
Thine, o’er our Champions, be the feeptred Care,
/ And be thy Word, their Law, the Word of War.
He spoke j Ihe courteous thanks him for the Praise Then, graceful, her Difeourfe reluming, says.
Doubtless, ’twill seem a Thing entirely new.
To claim Rewards, e’er Service shows them due:
Yet of your Bounty confidently sure,
One Boon I beg, and deem the Crant secure: :
that you would the Jentendd Pair release,
I will endeavour to deserve the Crace:
As a pure Cifr, their Lives I beg, I crave;
And yet, rnethinks, they much hard Meafere have: Uncertain Crimes for milder Judgments cry,
But thac, my Lord, i’ll pafs in Silence by. ni pafs by Proofs, that my whole Soul convince.
That make me confeious of their Innocence.
I urge but this — -- tho’ loud the Tongue of Fame
Lays the whole Load upon the Christian Name,
I must beg Leave to differ from you, there.
Nor foall my Thought, without good Crounds, appear; Wrong did your conjving Counsellor persuade,
v/rong was that Image to the Molque convey’d:
Th’ir
V
/
TA S S O ’ s Jerusalem. 3 5
Th’irreverence to our sacred Laws is plain.
And the magician’s Motion was profane.
Not our own Pictures must Admittance find,
\
Much less an Image of the Christian Kind.
’twas Mahoune did the mimic Form remove;
The Miracle descended from Above, r
perform’d by pow’rful Mahomet to prove Each Act is lawless, which his Mosque defiles With false religion’s superstitious spoils:
Still let Ifmeno try his boasted Charms,
And fight in Magic, since he can’t in Arms: '
But let us Soldiers, Soldiers Weapons try;
Arms are our Trade, let us on Arms rely.
With these bravewerds the beauteouswarrior ceas’d. And left the King to ponder her Request.
In ill, tho’ stubborn, stern Revenge his End,
Stranger to Pity, and averse to bend;
Yet fain he would oblige the pleading Fair,
And mov’d by powerful Reasons grants her pray’ri
So great an Intercestbr, he reply’d.
Ask what she will, must never be deny’d.
Let them have both their Lives and Freedom too. Whether or to Mercy due.
If guiltiefs, ’tis but just to fet them free.
And, if they’re guilty, they’re a Cist to thee.
9
3 6 TA S S O ’ s Jerusalem.
f
And now they'vt freed: -- -- And now Olindo found
His Deed as happy, as it was renoreddi
His well try’d Faith convinc’d Sbphronia's Eyes,
And bad her Heart with gen’rous Ardour rife:
The waken’d Passions rouz.’d her heaving Breast,
Shone thro’ her Eyes, and Love for Love confels’d.
Not, as a Lover, thus belov’d he grows.
No ’twas the Sufferer, that made the Spouse.
Still the King view’d them with a jealous Eye,
Nor so much Virtue could endure so nigh ■,
Thence doom’d to Exile, by his harsh Command, T Tho’ weary both, both loving, hand in hand, r
Sought the last Limits of the Holy Land. ^
N. B. The other Fragment out of Tajfo, which contains Part of the celebrated Epifbde of Clorinda and tan credi, (hold have been added here, together with proper Notes upon both of them; but that Design has been prevented by theueach of Mr. Porter, who wrote the Remarks at the Beginning of the Book.
A
f '■
r
\
A
FRAGMENT
From the Third Book of
TA S S o’s jerusalemw
The Argument.
The Town being invefied by the Chrijlians, Clorinda a pa gan Vrincefs in a vigorous Sally begins thetvar; and, after having fain, in single Combat, one brave Christian Commander, enceunters the Heroic Prince Tancredi, "scho beating of her Helmet, dijcovers her to be a Lady, nvho had formerly engaged hir Heart.. Meanwhile the Pagan Monarch in the Tovcn is refrefented Jetting on a Tovoer voith Erminia, a Princess secretly in Love xoith Tancredi, and (he informs the King who the several Christian Heroes are, as they approach the Town.
Be A N W HILE, from some great Watch
tower’s arduous Height,
Which could, o’er mountaintops, command j
Of
js tasso’s Jerusalem.
Of Plains remote, a Guard look’d watchful down
And law a Tempest moving tow’rds the Town.
The Dust appears, while Ipiry Volumes rile,
A huge black Cloud advancing thro’ the Skies;
It feem’d to lighten, as it nearer came,
lab’ring with fiery Deaths, and big with Flame;
At last the beamy Shields his Sight surprise.
And Men, and Horse, with Terror pale he spies“
“Clouds of Dust I see, aloud he cry’d,
‘‘ Where mingling Gleams, like threat’ning Meteors“ “
t' Up, up, you Citizens, your Town defend,
** Fly to your Arms, and to the Walls ascendi “Behold the Foe, ” — ■ Then straight, with fresh Alarms He urg’d their Haste, and call’d, To Arms, to Arms! ‘‘ they’re here, they’re here j see, see, the Dust inrols “In one tremendous Cloud the darken’d Poles.” '
Ww • *
Young Wives, old Matrons, all confus’d with Dread, Their Offsprings after them, promiscuous, fled.
Unfit for Arms, each reverend hoary Sire Does, shaking more with Fear, than Age, retire:
Pale, to their Molques, the trembling Virgins fly.
War with their Tongues, and pray for Victory,
But Men of Martial Hearts, and boasted Might,
Buckle their Armour on, and claim the Sight,
relblv’d to conquer, or relblv’d to fall.
Some line the Gates, and some ascend the Wall j
Like
tasso’s jerusdemi 3 9
Like Clouds embattel’d. Tempests to perform, '
they’re wedg’d in Ranks, their Ranks the King does C form, C
And, like an airy Demon, guides the Storm.’ rr
He to a tow’r, his Orders giv’n, withdrew; Between two Cates, with an alpiring View.
Well plac’d to regulate his Troops below.
And mark the Movements of the fieging Foe,
Its haughty Battlements it rear’d with Pride,
And over look’d the Hills on ev’ry Side.
Thither this King, the fair Erminia led,
Erminia to his Court, for Refuge, fled.
When Antioch fell to Christian Arms a Prey, ’
Where slain, her Sire, the Lord of Antioch lay.
Meantime Clorinda bad the Cates unbar.
Made the first Sally, and commenc’d the War.
Her ma, ny Chiefs attend, and num’rous Bands 5 Both Troops and Chiefs the Martial Maid commands. Bold in the Face of Danger, leads the Way,
Foremost of all, and eager for the Fray.
Argantes, jealous of the dubious War,
In secret Ambush watch’d with anxious Care;
I
Ready, if ill Success should turn the Sight,
To stop the Paths of Death, and aid her Flight:
. But
40 tasso’s Jerusalem.
But dauntless was the Female warrior’s Breast,
And such a Soul her sparkling Eyes confefs’d, V That Courage blaz’d abroad, and fir’d the rest. ^ With Voice Majcftick, with intrepid Mein,
She mov’d a Champion, and she spoke a Queen.
- “On us, Ihe said, all a[ias Hopes depend,
“Bravely begin, since Honour is the End :
The pregnant Seeds of future Clory lay,
** Let Conquests teem from this aulpicious Day.”
Thus while (he spoke, she French Batallions ipy’d, Drive captive Herds to feed their army’s Pride.
The bleating Flocks, and lowing Cattle mourn Their keeper’s Loss, and bellow to return.
Swift to their Rescue, the Fierce Virgin fiies.
And nowi in Thought, redeems the woolly Prize.
As quick to meet her (Guar do was his Name)
Sprung the French Chief, and equal was his Flame.
A Man he was, indeed, of paflting Might,
But not her Match unequal to the Sight;
Brave they both sought, till death’s decisive Wound. Drove Guardo headlong tumbling to the Cround* difmay’d the French, the tragic Sight beheldj With Shouts of Joy the Pagans shook the Field:.
Hence, Augurs grown, and of this Omen vain.
They sancy’d Conquests, from one Combat, gain.
She
s
^
*
TASS o’s Jemfaleffl. 4s
she tempts their Ranks, and, in a Press of Foes,
Her Maiden Arms a hundred Mens oppose:
Her Warriors wade red Paths, her Sword had made. Which mow’d a Passage through the falling dead:
They pufli’d the Fortune of their lucky Day,
And from the Foe redeem’d the ravifh’d Prey.
with Conduct brave, retiring slow, the French Sell their Cround dear, and yield it Inch by Inch 5 Till, with Advantage, on a riling Cround,
Their fainting Party, timely Succour found :
For, quick as Air, the gusty Whirlwinds rend.
Or flaming Bolts from bursting Clouds defeend,
Tancredi fir’d, at Godfrey's awful Nod,
march’d up his Squadron like a leading God.
The Youth does, gaily terrible, advance In threatful Guile, and fliakes his pond’rous Launcei
him from on high, the Pagan King beheldj’
The chosen Warrior of the listed Field And thus addrefs’d Erminia, heav’nly fair.
Whole Form majestic grac’d the neighb’ring Chair,
Who felt Ibft Passions in her Bosom rile,
A panting Struggle, and a War of Sighs., ^
“Taught by Experience, you, O Princess, know,
Tho’ flicath’d in Arms, the Chiefs, that lead the Foe.
v/ho
• U S
4
42 T A S S O ’ s Jerusalem.
♦
Who is he, marches with that awful Grace, |
4
Bears that high Port, and boasts that princely Facer’
Sighs fill her Lips, instead of a Reply,
And starting Tears stand struggling in her Eyai She choak’d the Groans, and held the Bubbles in.
Not Ib, she held them, but they might be seen;
Her Ihowy Lids a fearlet Circle ftain’d.
And half a Sob its plaintive Passage gain’d:
Then, thus fly feign’d, and thus diflembl'd well Her Love, in mimic anger’s borrow’d Veil.
*' Him! Yes, among ten thousand him I know
** Too well, alas! -- -- the Caufeof all my Woe.
*' Oft have I seen him in the sanguine Plain,
“Like fwifc Destruction, pile up Hills of Slain;
“Pve seen him fiuice away my Subjects Blood,
Till Streams it fill’d, or grew it self a Flood.
“Like time’s and death’s, his fcythy Sword can mowi “And, ah! as deadly, and as sure the Blow.
His Wounds are mortal ail 5 they reach the Heart, Physic they poze, and baffle magic Art;
’tis Prince Tancredi; O could, once, these Eyes,
“But once, in Chains behold him, e’er he dies!
Alive i’d have the Slave, for Vengeance’ sake j ‘l’twcrc the best Comfort, sweet Revenge could take.”
Ths
C
tasso’s jerusalem. 4 5
V
The Royal Hearer, such is woman’s Art, "p
Drew from the cover’d Truth, she did impart, ^.
Fierce Meanings, foreign to her tender Heart. ^
Now did clorinda to the Sight advance.
And at Tancredi couch’d her pointed Lance,
Now, Face to Face, the Champion and the Fair ", plung’d, till both Spears flew fplinter’d in the Air, ^ But her defertiog Armour left her bare.
For, strange!! one dread Tilt, its Laces broke.
Her naked Head the Traitor Helm forsook:
wav’d in the Wind, her Silver Tresses flew.
And all the Beauty flood confefs’d to View:
light’ning her Eyes, diffus’d a radiant Fire,
Charming, tho’ fierce, they kindled soft defirci She, whole sweet Rage could anger’s self disarm, ’
What would she do, if Smiles improv’d the Charm?.
O nowaancredi, where is, now, thj Soul!
What Wishes in thy lab’ring Bosom roll!
At whom, quite lost in Wonder, dost thou gaze?
Art thou a Stranger to that lovely Face?
Yes, ’tis the same, the same that once infpir’d Thy longing Soul, and all fir’d. '
Ask thine own Heart, for that can tell thee best.
Where, deep, her lovely Image lies impressed,
‘
Too
0
44 T A S S o’s Jerusalem,
Too sore, ’tis she, that at the lonely Stream Did, where thou fought’ft to cool, thy * blood ia* flame;
Her crested Helmet, and her painted Shield He knew not first, but her Face once beheld, Amazement froze the Current of his Bloody He grew to Stone, and like a Statue flood;
She, her Head guarding, : with redoubled Fire, ^ attack’d the Chief, then did the Chief retire;
. .Whizzing aloft did his bright Faulchion wield.
And Sought the mingled Harvest of the Field.
Close she purfocis him, - and aloud she cries,
“Turn, if thou dar’ft, again, to face these Eyesj” V And double death she threatens as she flies. J
Struck, and still struck, he ne’er return’d a Stroke:
Lesson her Sword he fix’d his guardful Look,
Than on the Deaths, that fparkl’d from her Eye, y/hence Cupid bad unerring Arrows fly.
i ' ' > -
Within himself, and to himself he said,
In vain those Wounds are aim’d j ftie, lovely Maid!
‘‘ In vain, with boasted Strength, uplifts that Arm, Tho’ bound with Steel, that Hand can do no Harm:
‘‘ But
* Tancredi and Clorinda in the firji Book are deferibedy after a
toarm Battlei to have met at a Fountain vpbere he fell in Love with
her
%
A S S O ’ s Jerusalem. 45
** But not in vain she shows that naked Face,
‘‘ Like ligkt’ning, bright and fatal is the Blaze, ^
** Its Beams fly pointed, and, each Darf takes Place.”
At length, though Hopes of Pity he had none.
Yet he relblv’d to make his Passion known, ^
refolv’d, before he perifh’d, to declare The wounded Captive to the cruel Fair.
His Face, unfoldicr’d, wore a suppliant Looky And, speaking thus, he trembl’d while he spoke.
O Thou, who from these Thousands, mark’fl: out me Of all thy foie diftinguilh’d Enemy:
Leave we the mingl’d Host, and private try.
Which is the bolder Champion, thou or I:
Soon will a single Combat let thee know.
Whether my Valour equals thine, or no.
Helmlefe altho’ she was,, her Head all bare,
His Challenge strait accepts the martial Fair, V
And bold she follows, to the dual War;
The wondr’ing Chief, in strange Confusion tofe’d.
And all the Champion in the Lover lost.
Now in a fighting Posture flood the Maid,
And aim’d a deadly Blow, when thus he feid.
‘‘ Hold, let us first, before we prove our Might, ’
settle.feme previous Articles of Fight:
Since
it
4^ T A S S O ’ s Jerusalem:
Since Peace, with me, relentless you disdain y
Since, if I begg’d it, I should beg in vain,?
Be these the Terms, the best I hope to gain. J Tear out this Heart from miferableme,
“No more my Heart, if it dilpleafes thee:
'' Wretched in Life, if it offends thine Eye,
It will a very willing Martyr die.
“Long since it wholly appertain’d to you
Time I should yield, and you should Seize your Due, f Behold, these nerveless Arms I low incline,
A guardlefs Breast, fulpended, they resign.
Why ftrikeft thou not a Heart so free to bleed?
Or would’ft thou have me help the sanguine Deed?
‘‘ Speak, from this Iron house my Limbs Pll tear,
And to thy thirsty Sword my Bosom bear.”
Unhappy, thus hiswoes before the Maid,
In melancholy Sighs, Tancredi laid, ^
And more perhaps, much more he would have laid : But Tramplings, thick and thicker, beat the Ground, And stop the rest, with their untimely Sound.
For mov’d by Stratagem, or urg’d by Dread,
Hasty, the Pagans, from the Christians, fled.
One, that pursued, staunch in the deathful Trade, ’
Saw by the Winds her ringling Curls difplay’d;
And, as he pafs’d behind her, lifting high ■his deadly Faulchion, with a ruffian’s Eye
/
aim’d,
T A S S O ’ s Jerusalem. 47
- •»
aim’d, at the Part expos’d, a barb’rous Wound;
Forth leap’d Tancredi, with a sudden Bound,
And, stop your Hand, he cry’d j and, at the Word,
Warded the whi^2, ing Murder with his Sword.
Yet not all vain the Blow, it just descends.
Where, near her snowy Neck, her Head depends:
Few Drops, for glancing was the Wound, and flight.
Her Locks vermilion’d, and so ftain’d the white.
As Rubies, fet in Silver, we behold,
tvith darting Crimibn, warm the fulgid Mould
Now would Tancredi make the Villain feel The Death he strove to give, and grafp’d his Steel, ’
The Prince, whole Rage he fhun’d with hasty Dread, follow’d all Vengeance, he all Terror fled.
Swift, the Pursued, and the Pursuer, go.
As feather’d Arrows from the twanging Bow.
In deep Sulpence, the wond’ring Maid beheld The speedy Racers fcow’r the distant Field;
Loth to pursue, her Flight she meditates.
Joins her own Troops, and with the Rout retrcafs;
She turns, returns, now flies, now puts to Flight,
Now Battle gives, and now recedes from Sight.
’twas hard to say, while (he diidain’d to yield.
Whether (he chas’d, or fled the listed Field.
So the stout Bull on following Dogs will turn The pointed Vengeance of his goring.horn;
'amaz’d
/
ft
48 TASS o’s Jerusalem.
amaa’d the gen’ral Hunt shrink back apace, t
But once he turns to fly, renew the Chase;
New Heart they take, the Savage tempt again, ’
Full Speed, full cry, they mouth along the Plain.
High, at her Back, the fair Clorinda held The ample Orb of her defensive Shield
Its ample Orb protected, as ihe fled.
From fwrft pursuing Darts, her helmlefs Head.
So manly Moors, that in tough Sports contend,
.'Shielded, their Heads from rapid Balls defend.
9
%
*
TO
'* r
/
f
/ ■' y
T O
STREPHON,
O N H I S
Excellent VERSES,
And on his
version of TA S S O.
0h, where shall I from such sweet Sounds -
The God of Love himself has tun’d thy C
And taught it ev’ry Passion to inspire. y With Wit, with Art, and pow’rful flatt’ry strung.
The heav’n born Muses dwell upon thy Tongue;
Their befl lov’d ov/d. whom they made their Choice, ^ Had not a greater Skill, nor Sweeter Voice, •
p My
\
50 Clio to strephona i
My Heart, tho’ far from the Coquette remov’d. receiv’d, thy Praise, and silently approv’d.
theworld, which feem’d a Trifle to my View,
\slef$ defpisa, since ’tis adorn’d by youj And I Its empty Pleasures could endure.
Were but my Soul of such a Friend secure. I
How few in all the Tour of Life we find, |
That either can improve, or charm the Mind?
Scarce can my Thoughr, in all the boasted Crowd,
Recall one Friend to make my mem’ry proud.
Tho’ much of Flattery my Youth has prov’d,
(For I have been what others call belov'di)
Yet still my nicer Inclination found Some happy Fault to keep me yet unbound.
My Mule has been my Fleajure, and my Care,
And I no other Fetters wish to bear :
%
To that, O gentle Bard! thy Fondness give,,
And let thy inoftevfive Rival live: "
From that thou canst no Danger apprehend,
apollo’s thine, and e’ry Muse thy Friend.
No After ages will repeat my Name,
Nor can I rob thee of thy purchas’d Same
Yet if thy Verse does clio’s Name adorn,
I wdfia her hot to greater Clory born.
secur’d by thee, what petty Bard will dare To wound my Weakness when thy Cuard is there?
So great thy Reputation, and fb bright,
.thaci shall, shine, reflexive by thy Light.
So
Clio io Strephon. 51
So have I seen some little flying Cloud
Gilt by the Sun, a while look gay and proud j
But, if its Beams their lovely Shine withdrew.
Its ihort liv’d Beauties Swiftly vanilh’d too,
/
Lead on, my gen’ral, then s and I may be,
Tho’ many Ranks below, infpir’d by thee.
Beneath thy Laurels, oh.\protesi fny Fear,
And Jhade thy little trembling Volunteer.
Perhaps Clorinda was a Coward too,
’rill she was taught to tread the Field by you;
Oh! how I emulate the martiat Maid,
And read thv Tasso, till i’m not afraid!
How am I charmed with ev’ry finijh’d Line /
And joy that Faiitfax’ are fb saint to thine!
You taught the Fair to wield the pointed Dart,
And fhew’d the fbftcft Vein intancreo’s Heart.
Oh! skill’d in Love and Verse, thy Power employ
To aid the dyingvempire of the Boy!
He yields apace." ■""and no Tancredi Ihines,
But in thy Form, and thy excelling Lines.
CLIO.
r
4
D a strephon’s
t
%
AN S WE K
Being in a
D R E A M:
O R, T H E
RECAPITULATION.
4
4
BY
Way of DIALOGUE.
H Y Verse, which run with Down upon their
^ Meafore my Hours, and make my Minutes
And when, in Reading, all the Day is (pent.
Not all the Day can yield me full Content j I start from Bed to phoebe’s paler Light,
. And, clutton like, devour ’em o’er at Nightj
Then
Strethon ?(? Clio. 53,
Then walk my lonely Chamber, round and round.
And kissed the skilful Hand, that gave the v/ound.
At length, when Nature, with Fatigue opprefs’d.
Forces my dozing Head to fink to Rest,
Still my awaken’d Soul is just the same, ^
unroear/d still that courts thee, lovely Dame, ^
And to it self presents thee in a Dream. ^
Methought, on Dennis’ much lov’d Plain I lay.
And Fancy turn’d the Noon of Night ro Day:
Phoebus appear’d } Wit reign’d upon his Brow,
And Wits Reward, the sacred Laurel B ucrh :
* d
The Cenial Cod, thro’ ev’ry Feature, fmifd.
And with these Promises my Ears beguil’d.
...
<
Study, wefomerdd Bard, thy Voice improve,
Mine gain’d but Laurels, thine shall gain thee Love.
wrapp’d with the Prophecy my Harp I strung,
And, what I can’t awake, asleep 1 sung: :
was the Song, for Clio was the Theme,
Clio! my Love! my Wish! my Bliss! my Fame!
My Song rewarding to my vast Surprise,
The witty fair one danc’d before my Eyes:
The Vision struck me with religious Awe,
As wheg their Coddefles old Poets few.
P 3..
ft
’54 strephon/a Clio;
With, Eyes as radiant as the Beams of Day, ' 'p Blooming with heav’n born Youth, and sprightly gay, > Thus, my dear Cuo said, or feem’d to say. J
t
CLIO.
Oh! where foall I from such sweet Sounds retire? 0
The God of Love himself has tun’d thy Lyre, p
And taught it ev’ry Passion to inspire' '
Ovid, whom the Muses made their Choice,.
Had not a greater Skill, nor sweeter Voice,
STREP H O N.
0
Oh! never, Clio, never hence retire, j
Thee gone (for thou. love’s Goddess, doll inspire)) Dumb must my Tongue be, and unstrung my Lyre. 3 The am’rous Ovid ne’er had foch a Choice Of Wit and Beauty to employ his Voice:
Hadst thou been born to bless his happy Days,
No Name but Clio had adorn’d his Lays.
Oh! tell me, can thy Soul be e’er inclin’d.
That is so witty, to be half as kind?
Canst thou not, tell me, canst thou not improve Thy Wit with Tenderness, and stoop to Love.
To love a Man, who to his last hour’s End Would study hourly to be more thy Friend?
CLIO,
Strephon to Clio. ff
'CLIO.
how/eti) in all the Tour of Life we find.
That either can improve or charm the Mind?
Scarce can my Thought, in all the boasted Crowd,
Recall one Fruud to make my mein’ry proud.
S T R E P H O N.
No Wonder, Clio, thou Ib few foouldft see
I
Pleasing, for Pleasure is confin’d to thee;
Crowds of Admirers ne’er should make thee vain, ’
But, they may boast, that by thy Charms are llaia.
So not the God, to whom Perfumes arise.
With od’rous pray’r, and wi^elcome Sacrifice;
Not he is honour’d, but the Man that prays,
Because a Deity accepts his Praise.
Be thou my Saint, thy Altars i’ll adorn.
And each new Day, new Incense will I burn
Be thou my Angel, thou, like Angels fair,
Then will I pray, and thou shalt hear my pray’r,
CLIO.
Though much of Flattery my Youth has prov’d,
(For I have been what others call belov’d)
Yet -- -- --
D 4 S T R E
%
Strephon to Clio.
STREPHON.
Have been belov’d! belov’d thou’lt ever be,
While I have Ears to hear, or Eyes to see.
For in thy Form, and in thy Voice I find,
AH that can please the Eye, or charm the Mind.
But how can I, unhappy, hope to gain
Her that has been so lov’d, — — but lov’d in vain?
CLIO.
Yet still, my nicer Inclination found Some happy Fault to keep me yet unbound.
STREP HON.
Happy those Faults I ever ftiall esteem,
That for my sake referv’d thee safe from them j Who elfe had triumph’d in that boundlefe Joy,
That does my Thoughts and ev’ry Wish employ.
OF all my Faults, one Fault alone thou’it prove.
If that be one, Extravagance in Love:
That you’ll forgive; for Love should ever rise proportion’d, as its object’s fair and wife i And sure, if Love should like thy Merits be.
No Love can ever be too great for thee.
ft
CLIO,
btrephon to Clio. 57
C L I o.j
My Muse has been my Pleasure and my Care,
And I no other Fetters wish to bear : VI - '
To that, O gentle Bard! thy Fondness give.
And let thy inoffenfive Rival live j
From that thou can’ll no Danger apprehend j
apollo’s thine, and ev’ry Muse thy Friend.
No after ages will repeat my Name,
Nor can I rob thee of thy purchas’d Same, Yet if thy Verse does clio’s Name adorn,
1 wish her not to greater Glory born.
STREPHON.
Clio is all my Pleasure and my Care,
And I no other’s Fetters wish to wear.:
To me then, Clio, all thy Fondness give and
let thy truest, tend’reft Lover live.
Of that I can no Danger apprehend.
If ev’ry Muse is, as thou fay’ft, my Friend;
heav’n knows, of all the Nine, but One I choose.
Ye heav’ns! Let Clio be that friendly Muse 5 Then future Ages will repeat my Name,
For, if fhe’d wear it, she would give it Fame,
D y G L I Oi
\
t
52 Strephon to Clio
CLIO.
My Heart, though far from the Coquette remov’d. receiv’d thy Praise, and silently approv’d.
The World, which feem’d a Trifle to my View,
Is lest defpis’d, since ’tis adorn’d by you; '
And I its empty Pleasures could endure,
Were but my Soul of such a Friend secure.
STREPHON.
/
I just was going full of Joy to tell.
That my fond Soul would in her Bolbm dwell For an Eternity — — But fortune’s Spite,
Just at that Moment tore her from my Sight, C
finifh’d my Dream, and mademe’stgji all Night. j
/
Yet, Phoebus, yet thy Prophecy i’ll prove.
For Dreams, thy Poets fey, jdefcend from f ove,
'Then i’ll pursue the my Dream
O er Demid Plain, and view the lovely Dame,
strephon;
0
\
/
i i
, f
/
TO
£
X
I
TO
Srjy T t7 T) icf XT
1 JK Jb A rl vj rn ^
In answer to the
Foregoing L E T T E R,
Which was kept a whole Month by a Lady, to ‘vjho'rn the Care of it was inirufied, before it was deliver d to C LI O.
By Eyes wept o’er the Verse that ftray’d fe ^ "
Hand could rudely treat thy cha'rm ^
Scarce can my angry Heart forgive the ' Wrong!
bleeds within me, while thou sadly plains.
It feelsthy Voice, and fbfcens at thy Strains.
I fley to still them, as the tender Dam Hastes to the Bleatings of her fav’rite Lamb.
What have thy Numbers fuffer’d for niy sake
Oh! how shall I a just Atonement make!
i
r y
I
‘.6o Clio to Strephon.
, I rhourn their Sweetness was so much diftreli.
And lay the ■vtomded Beauties to my Breast.
From them I will no hidden Dangers fear.
They will not harm thy Little Trembler here]
I read thy Soulj tho’ to thy Form unknown.
And guess its gentle Temper by my own.
Thou art compajjionate, as Angels are.
And hast of friendless Innocence a Care:
To beauteous Chastity I see thee bend,
The Coddefs does into thy Soul defeend, ^
And with victorious Chaplets crowns my Friend. 3 Thy temp’rate Veins do with her Licence move,
For Jhe allows of Toetry and Love, f
Which, as sweet Waller lings, is all they do above. ^ With modejl Warmth, Jhe gives them Leave to beat. Nor bids me difepprove the cod like Heat.
I hear thy Song with innocent Delight,
Nor chide the soft Delujions of the Night;
I bless the Cod who to thy Dreams is kind,
Still may my Image dance before thy Mind, ^
And in thy Sleep thy fairy Temples bind.
Let clio’s Fingers with the Muses join,
Let grateful Cuo make her Poet fine, ^
Whose Verse has made her humble Merit shine.
Blufi} not, ye Prudes, to hear my modejl Praise,
Who ne’er have/?ti the Maghk of his Lays;
In Fornrs delightful may I still appear,
For ever may he dream, and I for ever hear I *
The
ft
s
Clio to Strephon. 6i,
f
The Laurel and the Bays to thee i’ll give.
Let Clio only in thy Numbers live.
To ev’ry Thought of thine i’ll lay a Claim, '
i’ll give thee Friendship, thou must give me Same,
With Tenderness I will thy Presents use.
And be a Mother to thy tuneful Muse.
The Ibft Ambassadors you hither sent.
Now sleep at Ease, my Bosom is their Tent.’
Like trembling Birds, who have their Parents lost, ’
harm’d by ungentle Hands or nipping Frost,
Pining, alas! they melancholy ftray’d,
'Till Love and I reviv’d them in this Shade.
My guardian Angel should have been their Cuide, ’
And to his Wings thy am’rous Paper ty’d:
In bearing of the glorious Sheets along,
Apollo would have caught the flying Song j And, as he cut along the lower Sky,
Thy Verse had taught his Pinions how to fly.
Here, it with Peace and rural Sports shall dwelled I, for its mafter’s sake, will treat it well:
But let not her, you praise, a flatt’rer be,
’tis rather for its sake i’m kind to thee.
W
Thou art a Judge, O sweet excelling Youth!
And canst, perhaps, forgive an honest Truth.
In ev’ry Line I see thy Features glow.
From ev’ry Thought, thy Shape, thy. Air, I know,
I
ft. • • N,
/
Clio to Strephon.
I see the Joy, with which thy Cheeks are drefs’d.
When any Turn is happily exprefs’d
The pow’r of Verse my ravifh’d Soul has prov’d.
So canst thou charm, andfo is Cua mov’d.
What artful Methods the Poetic find.
To steal themselves into the reader’s Mind?
I should receive thy dang’rous tva with Care,
For, Oh! the Foet lies n Ambush there.
I see, I hear thee, thy persuasive Art!
Oh! keep thy Verse, and let me keep my Heart j Or if, O gentle Bard! thou art my Friend, f
While thou attack’d:, instruct me to defend.
CLIO.
j
I
N
V
TO
T O
i
The Letter to vyhich this Answer is made,
was lost.
%
UCH Verse as thine, all Forms can plea ftp fing make, C
M whatfcever one you like to take, C
1^^^^ Is pleasing to me for my poet’s fake' Even thy Ghost is charming to my Sight,
Whilst it appears adorn’d in Black and White; '
Not all the gaudy Colours of the Eafl:,
^ Could to my Eyes be such a perfect Feast.
Of other Spirits I am much afraid.
But walk with thine, and court the gentle Shade j whene’er the busy World is lain to Rest,
I fly unseen to thy setherial Breast,
Alone at Midnight I converse with thee.
And Venus lends her brighter Beams to me,
thes’r.atrf shine forth, they once were Lovers too
ad all the Planets Sure are brib’d by you:
Thj
/
64 Clio to Strethon.
Thy Body must not all our Meetings know.
For that’s a Man, and therefore is my Foe..
Ab! tell it not that I can write so kind.
It will be jealous of thy purer Mind,
And fondly will attempt to claim some Part,
And rob its Rival Shadow of my Heart. -
Off have I pray’d, and heav’n has heard my pray’rj To grant a Lover made like thee of Air,
For 1 am tir’d with being long purfo’d By low Desires of mortal Flesh and Blood,
A greater Compliment you cou’d not pay.
Than throwing all the Dross of Love away.
Then coming to my Bolbm thus refin’d,
And leaving Sex and Interest behind.
What telltale,, familiar to my Heart,
gou’d this dear Secret to thy Ear impart.
One Way there was my nicer Taste to move.
And that alone was Numbers drefs’d in Love.
No golden show’rs cou’d here a Conquest gain, ’
I have beheld those Trifles with Disdain
Vice I have Seen in gaudy Triumph shine.
And Man fiirvey’d in ev’ry mean Design;
Low at tny Feet i’ve seen these Monarchs lye, '
And ask’d my blushing Soul, the Reason why;
Youth or gay Looks have made tbcwretchet bend,
And Slaves a While, in order to afcendj But yet my harmless Pity I let fall, "T
To see these mighty Masters of the Ball, f
Pbedient to a fhort liv’d beauty’s Call. ^
Such
Clio to Strephon. 65
Such earthly Passions, Virtue needs must blamsi
But thine is sure a more transcendent Flame,?
For which ev’n Love itfelf’s too mean a Name.
Oh! let it then for heav’nly Friendship go.
Such as good Souls retain for Friends below.
Such! as thine wou’d, for happ’less Clio find,
shou’d you ascend, and leave her here behind.
By heav’n thou art infpir’d, for Ibmething more Shines in thy Verse, than I have found before.
Humour and Wit I have with Pleasure found, ^
But thine is with a po w’rful Softnefe crown’d.
From which I must my lift’ning Senses guard,
Oh! ask not my Repose for thy Reward,
e’er I behold thee, let me here compound,
Retire, retire, methinks I hear the Sound, ^
But, Oh! my Feet are faften’dto the Cround,
Such Force has Verse when guided by thy Hand,
It does eachatom of my Soul command.
Thus Ipeaks my Soul but it, alas / is join’d, 'ft
To human Clay, which is to Rules confin’d, ^
And thou thy self wou’d chide it, if too kind:
Yet wffiatfoever rigid Form attends.
Let us at leaft..eternally be Friends,
And I entreat thee, Oh! my charming Spright, 1
In Yerfe to visit Clio ev’ry Night,
CLIO,
St RER

•«
Strephon to Clio.
My C I I O, I
!
BH AVE been made this Day the most unbp ^
py of Men. A Fellow of a very sour Countenance, who was certainly born in an ill Hour, or his Tongue could never have toll so much bad News in To few Words, inform’d me tbt my Clio vas very much indisposed. Death with bs Scythe in one Hand, and his Hour glafs in the other. ilia king maliciously the few remaining Sands, and warning me that my last Hour was near expir’d, could not have
touch’d me like this base Informer, who would with his faucy r>fticioustongue force into my unwilling Ears, the Story of your wanting your Health. — — I will not believe it. -- -- The Guardian Angels that attend you could
not be so negligent, as to let ycu be in any Air where
Sickness could reach you....but, for fear of theworft.
1 will trouble you with no more, than first a Prayer tc yourself, that you would let me know how you do j anc telling you in the next Place, that I am upon my Knees
offering up another Prayer to your Guardian Angel, tha
the
(
Strephon to clib. 6 i
«
they would be more diligent in finding Means of restoring you to your Health, than they were in preventing your Illness— — — — shall scarce rise frorti the Cushion my Knees are bent upon, nor unclafp my Hands, nor stop my Lips from inccflant Supplication, till your Reply comes. — May it be a comfortable one, and by signifying your Recovery, secure my own from a thousand Fears, more tormenting than the Agonies of Death would be to my dear
Giro,
ft
Tour Moji Affediionate,
And Afilifbed Servant,
S T R E P H O N.
f
Clio
At
i
V
Clio to Strephon.
My Friend,
H E poor Man indeed told you Truth, *, for I have been, and still continue very ill, jl^pjtj^y though I am somewhat better, which I
impute to your Prayers and Friendship, 1 am charm’d with your Bilays, which make Religion, what it really is, the finest Subject upon Earth. Since my Illnefe, I have read and admired those refined Notions, and am proud. He, that can think so divinely, should think of me at all. — — — Ycu are very good
to a Stranger, and Clio is a thoufandways your Friend. — Believe me, notwithstanding the Want of Health, Uie finds real Pleaftire thus conversing with you. — — You can write, tho’ my Indilpofition will not let me. — If it was not for Illness I would not leave you fb soon— — — is healing to the Mind.
^ Oh then the Sacred Remedy apply,
[ And pleadd VU live •, if not, voith pleasure die.
CLIO.
Q N.
ft
( y
t
)
.J
O N
clio’s LETTER,
WHEREIN
She tells me of her Sickness, and received on the
Night vjhen the great Storm of Thunder and Lightning was.
Bate, on the dreadful’ft of recorded Times,
I virgil’s read in dryden’s :
How cvesar’s Death, e’er cesar dead be
Thunders proclaim’d thro’ heaven’s fhiv’ring Frame.
How howling Ghosts yell’d in the nightly Shade,
■ Till Tempests, dropping Fire, the sprightsdilstlay’d;
My Midnight Studies, struck with pleasing Dread
And Parent Barch I left, and sought my Bed j When, lo! incompafs’d with a sudden Flame,
I found their Verse and Nature were the same.
Not with Preemption, but with humble Awe, ’
I view’d the Sky, and, what I read, I Saw i
'' 0
It
V 0
jo Strephon u Clio,
It fiaflsd a most intolerable Light,
And turn’d to blazing Day the pitchy Night'.
There, just receiv’d, and, yet unopen’d, lay Thy Letter kept to bless the foll’wing Day:
Straight my foreboding Soul was much difmay’d,
It knew not why, but trembled for its Maid;
fear’d what the greatest man’s Decease fore fign’d, fore ftiew’d the lick’ning neen of Womankind.
Frighted I ran, the doubted Letter took.
And, as I broke the Seal, my Fingers Ihook:
But, when I read that Sickness harm’d my Dame,
Read the Tidings by the dismal Flame;
Then, tho’ then loud did jove’s chief Thunders roll, Far greater Tempests labour’d in my Soul j And yet (my Clio) ’midft that Storm of Care, ’
ev’n thy sweet Music was too harjh to bear.
Yes, thy own Verse, where Sroeets Eternal reign’d, 'Grew harsh, quite harfs! — thy Illness they contairik Trust me (my Love) I sympathise with thee.
Now, while I write, each nerve’s in Agony:
Troops of fed Fears make ev’ry Heart string quake, And reigning Agues all the Fabric ft: ache.
Not lb; when all my Nerves well pleas’d did move,
W hile I was singing Tunes of thee and love,
v/hen on your Harp (more pleas’d) i’ve heard you fing.
And ev’ry Nerve has danc’d to ev’ry String,
No
strepiion to Clio. yt)
Now interrupting Sobs, that Music break, ’
Mute must each Muse be, and mere Nature Speak.’
But Nature can’t -- -- for nature’s overcome.
Small Sorrows speak— — solemn Grief is dumb:
Fet if (ye heav’ns) if yet ye can but hear,
Midst the loud Storms, that deafen evvy Earj [ will subdue my Grief, and say one prayt : V
When lighi’ning next breaks thro’ the cloudy Air, S Look thro’ those Clouds, and when you see, you’ll C (pare.
0
And you that are to me a dearer Part,
Than the last Drop is to a bleeding Hearts Do not, o’ercome with Spleen, the Wits Disease,
Think heav’n will Virtue, Wit, and Beauty seize.
To think ’twould be at such a vast Expense
As making thee, then Snatch thee straight from hence ^
doing Injury to Providence.
don’t be Ib cruel to thy self nor me,
Thou fhalst not aie — ■ — thou lhal’t tranjlated be.
I
When late, ah! be it late! when ’tis defir’d,
To seek the heav’nly Joys, of earthly tir’d,
May some good Angel join his Lips to thine
Thou to his Lips thy balmy Breath resign;
he’ll catch thy Soul wrappm in thy spicy Breath, ’
And disappointing the grijn Forms of Death
I
Shall
iqz Strephon to Clio.
N
shall thee, all fhiniag, to that heav’n translate,
(Where Spirits of thy Rank compound the State:
Here ends the pray’r, which high heav’n appeas’d, ^ The Skies all open’d, and the Saints well pleas’d, C view’d her, ill Omens and the Tempest ceas’d. 5
STREPHON.
4
✓
. >»■
AN
I
A N
ANSWER to Clio,
4
(jvho speaks of Flatomck Loves) sent sober juji after her Recovery from an Indifpojitian of Health,
%
ILL Sickness left you, till I knew yoa
^ Did I once mention what nay self endur’d?
Unless, when pitying you with Pains opc. pressed,
I pray’d, that quitting yours, they’d seek my Breast.
Now, tis my Turn, to name poor strephon’s Pains,
And thine to pity now, whilst he complains.
To thee (O Clio!) is all Nature known,
Painted in Verse, for poetry’s thy own:
Thou know’ft the Pangs of disappointed Love Must, as irs object’s dearer, sharper prove.
Thou know’ft, that, as our Souls are tend’rer made,
Those soft Impressions are the deeper laid,
Ej That,
/
74 Strephon to Clio.
That, when coy Ladies Lovers Hopes control.
They to Distraction drive a manly Soul.
Thou know’ft thy self the noblefi Form on Earthy That ever gave the noblefi Passion Birth j know’ft ev’ry Glory shines confefs’d in thee.
And everlasting Tenderness in me.
And, shall L dear, unkind, viuorious Fair,
, Bej: endcr’d up a Prey to wild Despair?
thoul’t answer No, — then coldly call —
And, spirit like, perhaps, my Soul commend.
If Love was only seated in the mind,
As cruel now I call. i’d own thee kind.
Does not each Line, which fl have written, proved
That I adore thee with redoubled Love?
\
That I admire thee all the Ways I can :
As Spirit much, but still much more as Man t And who wants Arguments, by which ’tis prov’d,
That heav’n fram’d tvomen, fb to be beloy’cl?
Tell me not then, thou dear too cruel Fair! ft
Thou oft hast pray’d, and heav’n has heard thy prayv f To grant a i.over made, like me of Air. J,,
No -- -- -- were I Air indeed, -- -- nay, purer far
Than the most pure Celestial Beings are;
By jove himself! i’d act my self like Jove,
i’d put a Body Qn, and seek thy Love.
X, All!.
'I
Strephon to Clio. 75
h I that I could but put a Body on,
lit mine is coarsely made and i’m undone!
ho’ golden Shovoris are Things that you disdain, et, for thy sake, i’d come in golden Rain: ut, ah! my niggard Stars, to wound me Home, ave me, Toithout the Wit, the poet’s Doom.
I
Ought I, in Prudence, all at once to name
ith Faults -- which now a days are counted Shame?
es, I am proud to own ’em all to you,
'appy and Rich in this illustrious View. ^
ou call’d me Friend, and i’ll be ever true. 3
Now tell me, if my Verse can pleasing make,
'his Form, which I am fordd, not pleas’d to take?
'ell me, no wealthy Beau thy Love shall gain,
'hat thou’lt behold the Trijle with Disdain. sot so, thou’lt say — thou’lt say, thy Soul is join’d 0 human Clay, which is to Rules confin’d; ^
nd I must chide my Stars, that ’tis not kind. ^
'' ■' ' Still let me, like a Lover made of Air,
•ffer thy Words, but offer as my pray’r.
Yet whatsoever rigid Forms attends,
'Ct us at leaft eternally be Friends.
STREPHON.
ft
E a TO
4
%
T O
In Answer to both his
Admirable Letters,
O F H I S
Illness and Platonic L ove.
\
WONDER not at what thy Verse per
_ I know its Power, and underfiand its Charms, | ' The Storm grows gentle, and its Sound obeys, |
And even Thunder Ibftens at thy Lays. ^
I
Angels themselves, from their own heav’ns defeend. They hear, - and wonder, and become thy Friend:
Not all the Swetefi Instruments combin’d, 1
The fdfreft Lute, and fprightiy Viol join’d, r
Nor david’s Harp, like thee, can raise the Mind. ^ j
I
Mj
Cuo to Strephon. 77
My Soul, which is, of tend’reft Atoms, form’d,
;
Is, as the Poet pleases, chiltd or warm’d:
The warring Skies receiv’d thy pray’rs that Night,
For all my Spirits were refin’d and light.
The haggard Spleen was driven from my Breast,
And I with smiling Chearfulnels was blefs’d,
Tho’ Nature feem’d, as if she dying lay,
I
And trembling fear’d the last tremendous Day,
Yet fearless I the angry Clouds furvey’d.
Thy friendly Wishes hasted to my Aid:
A sweet Composure oii my eyelids fell.
And all Things in my tranquil Soul were well.
But, e’er I slept, I offer’d up my pray’r, y
That heav’n my Poet, and my Friend wou’d (pare, ^
For he was worthy of its utmost Care. ^.
Oh! let the Dull, said I, from hence remove.
Who know not how to Jing, nor how to love.
But with my Praises I fhou’d Chidings join.
Thy Body is inform’d of our Design.
Did I not tell thee it a Share wou’d claim.
And strive to damp our everlasting Flame?
And Clio has a Rival now I find.
Who knows the Ibfteft Secrets of thy Mind:
Thou art not an Entire Angel yet.
But hast a little of the serpent’s Wit:
A Day will come, thou wilt be all refin’dt 'thy Body as immortal as thy Mind j
E J. Then
/
/
, 78 Clio to Strephon.
Then near thy heav’nly Perm my Soul shall stay,
And pafs with thee the never ending Day,
A little longer, tedious Life will end.
And we like Stars together shall ascend:
Or fhou’d I lose thee in the shining Throng,
I soon should find thee, by thy deathless Song,
Sure a peculiar Brightness thou wilt wear.
From all the sparkling Crowd of Poets there.
Sing on, and shorten life’s insipid Race,
I long to meet thee in a nobler Place,
Where Spirits of our Banks appear in State,
And those of lower Merit humbly wait.
I fear you will this haughty Notion chide.
And think it tastes too much of earthly Pride:
Thy manly Breast, with brighter Virtues fir’d.
Will scorn a Thought Ambition has infpir’d.
Oh! guide me, to my Weakness bs a Friend,
And learn my trembling Pinions to ascend:
T ft World and Youth, and Flattery pursue.
But I shall conquer if inform’d by you.
Show me the Dangers that lie featter’d round.
And lead me seize through the enchanted Ground.
But cease to think thy noble Mind undone,
Tho’ Nature put thy Body loosely on.
If ’tis unveorthy of the brighter Gueji^
Which warms thy Verse, and sparkles in thy Breajl,
I can forgive thy uningaging Clay,.
I
Stjppofe it even v<ihat thy Numbers .fey.
Happy
(
Clio to s^trxphon. 7$
Happy art thou from vain Addrefe fecur’d,
And all the Pains, poor Clio has indur’dj
The Praise of Fools, which still has been my Fate,
Which I avoid, and of all Torments hate.
Left to the World, to Solitude I ran.
To dress my infant Mind, and rest from Man;
In Letters, now and then, they will appear.
And, in that Form, I can endure them here.
But thine have all my fofteji Mom ents fhar’d.
And to my grateful Bolbm still preferred:
Increase my Number ^ I shall never tyre.
With reading what thy Passion does inspire.
What would’ft: thou more? — thy Numbers I ep
prove,
I like my self- -- -- give thee leave to lovei
But, Oh! encroaching Mortal as thou art.
Let still thy Spirit have the greatest Part;
You may admire me, au the Ways you can.
Give me the Lover, but keep back the Man:
Yet even him, perhaps, my Eyes cou’d hear,
Because thy Soul, (which is my Friend.) lives there.
Let Clio still her Empire, there, maintain,
Sweet are her Laws, and gentle is her Reign, y
She shall not tyrannise, nor thou complain. ^
I JUST again have read thy Letters o’er,
And therefore can endure my own no more:
A
E 4 From
So Clio to Strephon.
From whence do all thy soft Expressions come.
Sure not from Love, for Love, you know, is dumb;
But ficha Fujfton may I never prove.
Give me a speaking and a writing Love,
One, that can with such Eloquence persuade.
And jujlify the Kindness of a Maid,
CLIO.
i
I
4
• • ' ^
V
TO
9
\
/
TO
CLIO,
O F
Whose Recovery Strephon was juji then inform'd’., wherein he tells her of his Love.
N this small Time, so great my paflion’s
It leaves no Minute of my Time, my own j My Ibfteft Thoughts on clio’s Lines employ’d.
Still find out somewhat new to be enjoy’d: Over and over I thy Verses read,
Still sick’fiing with a Flame, which still I feed:
So parch’d in Fevers drowthy Wretches lie.
And drink they will, tho’, when they drink, they die.
A s fleeplels Men for fatal Opiates long.
And future Griefs for present Ease prolong.
So, when I read, two Passions I sustain,
’tis always Pleasure, but ’tis always Pain;
%
E y When
t
I
Zi Strephon to Clio.
, When now I recollect thy Thoughts divine,
I wish my Soul as ftmfy’d as thine;
Yet heav'aly Thoughts, that human Passions movci Tempt file to venture, and reveal my Love:
Dropping the Spirit, Pd the Man commend, j
Tdm wou’d I please, but (hudder to offend.
pleas’d with the Images of Thought at least,
I nurse and fondle them within my Breast:
Then with the borrow’d Wings of Love I fly, ■) To that green bow’r, where Clio us’d to lie, V!
And make Imagination be my Eye. y
By fancy’s Force, I see my lovely Maid,
reclin’d, and sleeping on her grassy Bed;
Gently I breath, amidst the gladden’d Air,
That plays among the lab’rinths of her Hair,
And bid it fbfcly whisper in her Ear:
Oh! wake not -- -- -- only dream that strephon’s here,
Then, from thy blushing Lips, a Kils I steal, ft
And beg of the next ha\my Vital Gale, r
Which to thy panting Breads thy Lungs exhale, ^ To carry to thy Heart a Tide of Heat,
And teach thy Pulse the March of Love to beab But speechless, motionless, the fair one lies.
Sleep fcals her Fancy, as it seals her Eyes.
That Silence, in her Sleep, destroys my Peace,
As Speaking did before, but diff’rent Way s. C
h! that she never had spoke, er ne’er roohld teaft! j
Ah I
A
STREPHON TO V^LIO. 62
i
Ah! then (cry I) (he dreams not, lovely Dame!
She Jleeps -’ — ’tis 7, tho’ broad awake, that dream.
Oh! that my Clio did but dream so too!
What now is only Thought, would soon be true.
\
This said, I just was yielding to Despair,
But thy last Letter dissipated Care,
There, there you say my Numbers you approve.
You like yourfelfand give me leave to love.
Leave? — — O ye Cupids bear the Tidings high.
As the bright Orb that circlesxound the Sky,
To distant Worlds my plighted Love proclaim.
To distant Nations her dear Accents name:
She gives me Leave —. — O found those Words again! And found them, ’till the lovely Maid I gain!
STREPHON.
- V
«
»
T O
/
T O j
STREPHON.
H. ' *
\
r
My Friend,
I
U L L Business, that came as unexpected' ' call’d me from
lsi ^ for two or three Days, and has fatigued
me extremely. At my Return I
repaid with your engaging Letters; but at the ferae Time I receiv’d one from an only Brother in Spain, in which he invites me thither. The passionate Desire I have to see him, after seven Years Absence, will, I fear, persuade me to venture j yet lafliire you there is nothing belonging to my native Country, (where we both intended shortly to return j I should grieve to leave moi, than your fonder Correspondence, which affords me so much Pleasure; But I muss (should I go) entreat a Continuance of it j it will help to make a foreign Climate plcafent to me, and I shall take those Lines ycu already favour’d me with, as some of the moll: valuable Things I have. I believe it will be some Months
yet e’er I go; therefore let me in them hear from you
very
ft
J
Clio to Strethon. 8 j
very often, and do all you can to persuade me, that my Memory shall not die with you in my Absence, which perhaps may be two or three Years. I go to a Brother, who is much dearer to me than my self, whose Absence has been one of my greatest Shocks in Life, and help’d with the Murder of the best Father in the World, tofpoil my little Genius. I with, my Friend, you could see this dear Relation of mine, who, I must say, is the most perfect of his kind, a fine Perfbn, with fine Sense, and the greatest good Nature. But then you would say Clio did not deserve your Notice: However, fly is ever, and ever will be,
'Tour mojl Faithful
Obliged Friend,
CLIO.
TO
TO
C L I O,
II
WHO
yujl after sloe tells me fie gives me Leave to Love, which fie expresses in the finest of Verses, tells me in a Letter, just after, that fid’s going
to a Brother in Spain.
%
a’ve heard of Merchants lost by fortune’s
And mem’ry now presents them to my
— • — Ay, there’s the Coast methinks they smile
to see
th’indulgent Surface of yon curling Sea,
The gentle Winds, with their propitious Just to their Wish inipiring all the Sails,
Of Ships rich laden, which had long been tofs’d In boifi’rous Storms, and given o’er for lost.
Their Shouts run echoing round the hollow Shore,
Each thinks he hugs his Bags of Indian Oar;
Blesses
0
Strephon to Clio. 87
Blesses his Stars, and cries, that Fortune’^ Hand,
Their Wealth infur’d, and brought their Ships to Land.
But fortune’s various Goddess cry’d -- -- - not so
#
And bad the blufiring God of Wmds to “blow 5 Obedient Aeolus unlocks his Caves,
Sends Winds to drive the Ships, and fret the Waves;
This Way and that impell’d, the Billows roar.
And bear them, in a Moment, far from Shore j In vain they murmur, and in vain they pray.
The louder Storms drown all they have to layj Deaf are the Seas to their unpitied Cries,
Winds upon Winds, and Waves on Waves arise ^ -
hide the Jinking Pines from weeping Eyes. 3
How nat’ral ’tis to feel a Wretch his Moan,
When small Reflection makes the Cafe one’s own?
Richer were I, than those that share the Eaji,
It thy soft Form my clalping Arms pofleis’d: j On Seas of Troubles has my Mind been tofs’d,
Long sought, thro’ Risques of being ever lost, - ^
Thy Arms its Harbour, and thy Smiles its Coaji; ^
Sometimes in Hope, but ofc’ner in Despair,
’till you at length inclin’d to hear my pray’r.
Just as to home rowed Barks, Odincreajing Shores,
Jet forth, and seem to meet the lab’ring Oars,
So tow’rds//b' Bosom did I f»iftly fleer.
The ivay feem’d fhortedd, and the Sky was clear;
You
#
88 Strephon to Clio.
ft
You feem*fapproaching — - — nature’s self was gay, '
And I ferener than a summer’s Dayj
But dfeftiny’s Black Clouds still lurk’d behind
My Stars grew cruel, just as you grew kind:
Me! frustrate Hopes convey to Dennis’ Plain,
And Fortune snatches thee away to Spain.
Yet hear my Clio, thy best Friend advise;
[Tho’ thy Counsel melts thy lover’s Eyes]
Since thou hast got an only Brother there.
Wife like his Sifier, like his Sijier fair.
Since he has Ible Possession of thy Mind,
Which might possess the Hearts of all Mankind,
Might all, that can its lov’d Acquaintance boast.
Render its Slaves, but Strephon still the most,
Co -- -- -- yes thou shalt— — — Hand shall be my Foe,
My Hand shall lead thee, since thou’rt bent to go.
And if base Fortune were less harjh to me,
i’d the Companion of that Vofage be.
But as to Fortune in this earthly State,
My name’s writ backtvard in the Books of Fate;
Go -- -- -- share the Pleasures of a brother’s Breast ^
leave a Lover void of foi and Refi, ^
For me no matter -- -- Clio will be blefr.
To some dark lonely Cave I can retire.
Weep away Life, and with a Groan expire.
STREPHON.
f
In
t
Ifi Answer to
Two LETTERS
■
Strephon sends me ••
lit One he tells me his pajjion is increased, in the
other advises me to go to Spain.
A
^ Thought -- -- which I should “N
most commend, ^
i ^ Lover, the Philosopher, or Friend,
They all delight so much, they all So high ascend,,
those Titles do Ib well agree,
The pleasing Wonder is all nevo to me, f
A thousand dift’rent Virtues shine in thee. ^
My Friendship you deserve so many Ways, ^
Thy tender Passion, and enchanting Lays, ^
Inspire my grateful Song, to chant thy Praise ^

y ....
I
po Clio to Strephon.
Preferring clio’s inpreft to thy own,
I such a Compliment I have not known.
Thy kind Philolbphy I do approve, ft
Nor think thy oker an Affront to Love, r
For I by common Methods never move. ^ i
i
Yes, I will go -- -- you further my Design, ft :
My Soul grows strong, while it communes with thm \ ^ i For Friend, nor Country will I much repine. ^
Stay but a while, i’m ready to attend;
Thy gen’rous Arm, and faithful Counsel lend:
This little Bark, Oh 1 teach me how to guide,
Far from the Rocks of Levity or Bride,
For, Oh! I go, where I must think to find.
Things of thy Form, roithout thy godlike Mind.
Still lively Youth upon my Temples plays,
Tho’ I to banish it, have had Allays;
Which if I had but Courage to repeat.
Thy Tears wou’d flovr, and hapless clio’s meet.
A Murdedd Father! -- -- Nature here expires
Saint on the Rack, and drops its softest Fires;
For ever does the Prospect fresh appear.
And, while I write, Blood crimfons ev’ry Tear.
Oil! have eny manly Heartstrings e’er been try’d,
Has Sorrow dragg’d them hard on ev’ry Side?
Has no kind Thought presented to revive
The breaking Springs of Life, and keep thy Hope alive?
Have e’er thy lagg ng Veins forgot to move.
Been dead to Music, Wine, and gentle Love?
Oh!
Clio to Strephon; sh
oh! fey, hast thou liiftain’d this deadly Woe?
Our equal Souls shall then acquainted grow.
And sure thou hast some mighty Sorrow known,
Some bitter Draught has in thy Cup been thrown, Q ’tis by thy Numbers fraught with Sadness shown ^ Melancholy in thy Verse appears.
Burr, Oh! how graceful are her charming Tears!
Each Sigh that mingles with her moving Words,
Each tuneful Stop a Harmony affordsj But yet be still, in happy Silence rest,
Nor let my Parting pain your generous Breast, q
Cease to remember Clio, and be blessed.
Let partial Fate be cruel to thy Name,
Since it is written in the Book of Fame’, '
♦
To whatsoever Nation i’m convey’d^
My Poet shall be still immortal made;
I will thy Merit and thy Lays rehearse.
And eharm the witty with thy Verse
Tho’ skill’d in Love, they humbly (hall fobmit To thy foperior Tenderness and tvit.
Spain shall not still her nobler Lovers boast.
Nor always triumph o’er our frozen Coast;
Far from the Sun, the Lord of fprightiy Fires, Britannia lies; but she has soft Ddires :
The Cod of Love flies here with flower Wing, ^ But yet her Martial Sons can love and ftng, ^
For here Bays, Laurels, and the Myrtles spring ^

92 Clio to Strephon,
Thy Numbers are fb tender and & bright.
They shall appear, and do thy Nation Right.
But while on fancy’s Wing I fly to Spain,
A mdurnful Thought recalls me back again.
Thou wilt thy absent clio’s Eyes forget.
But I mijlake, thou hast not seen them yet i Soon all thy Soft Ideas thou wilt lose.
That fire thy Soul, and animate thy Muse:
The Wheel of Fortune may its Humour Ihow,
And, often turning round, may cast thee low;
Wilt thou remember absent Clio then, ft
And know the bibure of her Soul again,?
Which file has lent thee painted with her Ben f j I hear thy sighing Heart affirm it will.
My Bdm is lost, and all my Fears are fiill.
Oh! what shall I return thy soft Regard,
Be everlasting Friendship thy Reward,
Such as thy Soul so ardently demands
Whose truest Value Strephon understands.
CLIO.
4
O N
o N T H E
Following LINES
I N
clio’s Letter.
^ 'Lkought, which I should most
Lover, the Fhilofopher, or Friend. Pi'eferring clio’s int’reft to thy own.
Is such a Compliment! have not knownr Thy kind Phtlofophy I do approve, “ft
Nor think thy Offer an Affront to Love; ^
For I by common Methods never move.
Yes, I will go you further my Design, ec.
i— — happy Silence rest,
Nor let my Parting pain your gen’rous Breast ^
to remember Clio, and be blefs’d. j
Stre
y
H
'I
.. • '. 1
a
S TR R P H O N Complaint Continued.
HEN (cruelyou will go! you will
gand artful Blames upon my Cemfel lay, C g As if that drove, nay, pofied you away, r
Judge, judge ye heav’ns, Oh! lend an equal Ear, Hear this evading, this upbraiding Fair;
What? if one Moment from my Love I dole.
And gave cold Friend (hip leave to sway my Soul, if, out of Sealbn rsjfe, and dully good.
My yadgment counfell’d, what my tvill withfloodj Should (lie, unfairly rcitty, take that Part,
And play my erring Head against my Heart?
Soon, and too true my Prophecy v/iil prove, -
That on my Ruin fhe’ll her Sense improve, C
tier Wit I find’s an Enemy to Love. ^
Talk then no more to me of Fame and Bays,
Nor freeze my Mind with chilly friendihip’s Praise j
/
They ’re.
Strephon to Clio. 9 '
»
I
they’re Gugam to the Love at which 1 aim, ’
You gave me leave, and I the Licence claim. S
Preach not up drain’d Philolbphy to me.
Thou little Sophister in Poetry,
That in false Arguments dost boast an Art,
And roak’ft a very Play thing of my Heart: la Love, not witty let us be, but true.
that’s Death to me, that is afejl to you,
0
Yet let thy Conscience listen if it can, ’
And own the changing Maid and constant Man $
That I did bid thee go -- -- -1 do allow.
And as a Friend, perhaps should do it now.
But, as a Lover, in the foll’wing Lines,
How do I grudge what Amity resigns??
you not plainly by broad Hints perceive, ’ 'jk
That, when I laid i’d come to take my Leave, ^
I meant Pd come to beg a kind Reprieve. '
don’t I there tell thee, if wc were tp part,
’twould burr ft the vital Strings that hom^my Heart?
That I must to some lonely Cave retire.
Weep Life away, and with a Groan expire!
All this you read, you knew; and was it kind.
To fey you’d go and leave your Svoain behind!
Her farewell Words (poor Strephon j thou must hear
Be fteerd to Grief, which thou art doom’d to bear!
« I
Parting
stretholsr to Clio.
Parting Ihe feys — — •in happy Silence rest,
Nor let my Parting pain your gentous Breast > to remember Clio, and be blefs’d: ^
What is this less, than if she was to say.
Speaking her colour’d Words a plainer Way,
t’ll pu(h thee pale and dying from my Breast,
And tell thee fmiling.mmmm in the Grave there’s Rest.
Thus still Complains thy
!
%
STREPHON.
t
T 0
T O
E T Clio thy complaining Heart appease. The Hand that wounded, shall restore thy
- ' Receive it. Strephon, from rtiy grateful Feni
Lift up thy Heady and shine in Verse again j Clio! a deathless Friendship still retains,
A h^onder and a fajjlon for thy Strains:
Sweet is the Harmony each Verse affords.
As falling Kiv'lets, or as warbling Birds,
The Morning Lark, and ev’ning Nightingale ',
Arc hoarse to thee — — Renetv the pleasing Tale'.
T! who ain plac’d sofar in Sense below.
In fainter notes my Gratitude will fhowj But, where the Beauties of my Numbers fail.
Thy Love shall fioop to raise me, and prevail.
Thou hast a Fondness for my little Sense,
itis all that I can plead in its Defence:
ft
%
I
F bhr
V
i..
/»
; $8 Clio to Strephon;
Oh! had I not a Friend within thy Breast,
How wou’d my artless Song endure the Test!
The gentle Lover I must still retain,
Or ne’er appear, in Poetry again.
Tis necessary you should love me Jlill,
And my prophetic Heart divines, you will:
But give me leave to tell you, in rehat Way,
Hard is the Task, but Strephon will obey 5 Be all thy Willies temperate and cool.
But Strephon whispers, who can loveby?
Clio can to that Miracle pretend.
And knows, to prabice what she does commend.
In happy Order, all my Pajpons move,
For clio’s a Philosopher in Love:
Where Love, and Form, and Fortune have conlpir’d.
To make the charming Orator admir’d;
When dying Eyes and Vows of ardent Truth,
Have been addrefs’d to my defencek/s Youth,
And I my self a kind of Pleasure found, ft
For Vanity has gladen’d at the Sound, r
; ev’n then I fled from the enchanted Ground.
Let me not boast too far: I felt a Pain,,
‘ * \
In going, and a Wish to turn again j So much of Felly has my Bosom known,"
But fteel’d with Time, it is a Stoic grown.
Levers, and Friends, those only Joys below, ft
If I thy clio’s Inclinations know, V
And.. ing Yputh hself, Ihe could forego. J
Half
Clio to Strephon., 199
Half of my Sands are ebb’d, what do remain.
Fall when they will, are scarcely worth my Pain:
But when the solitary last appears.
And clio’s few dear Friends are bath’d in Tears,
It will her last, and only Glory be,
That once her Name was lov’d, and sung by thee.
CLIO.
k
»
C
t
4
F 2 AN
1 vfie9^9c'^^^ ^^k\/^v J^a^kr Hn
An answer to
clio’s Last LETTER;
ar
WHERE
To heal my Complaints Jhe offers me friendjlap injiead of Lover, and on a Report that Clio, (when sloe gave me leave to love') was married et that very Time, or asually juery near it.
HEN from a louth some haughty fair “S
g obdurate Pride, his Court
love fick at, length upon his Bed he lies. ' In vain leama Doctors trifie with his Heart,
Their Druggs he baffles, and difovons their Art:
His Vitals lingymg with the hidden Blow,
He drops a Wonder to the Shades below :
But, timely if flje comes, that caudd his Pain, ft
as much a Wonder, from his Bed the Sxoain C
Springs to he - Arms, and beys tceu again. S
«
In
i.
Strephon to Clio.' igs
In thy last Letter, thou prefcrib’ft with
And only playdft the skilful douods Part.
Thou fey’ft thou’lc my complaining Heart appease.
Thy Hand, that xoounded, (hold restore my Ease.
Not so — Not so — Two pow’rful Hands you boast,
Each Hand can make One only raise a Ghost.
Alternate thro’ thy soft Epistles move “p
The Hand of Friendship, and the Hand of Love’, ^ And, when wounds, that can’t the Wound remove. ^ Why then, when I the Wounds of Love endure.
Does — Friendthlfs Hand adroinifter the Cure?
foua have each Wish be tesnperate and cool,
Boast that You can, and bid Me love by Rule.
Can Warmth and Coldness in one Breast agree?
In You I find they can, but not in Me.
One Swam, while I thy cooler Friendship prove,,
Basks in the warmer Sunthine of thy Love.
Yet where’s the need ttktreat me with Disdain,
Thy Slave infujting whilst he drags thy Chain?
Tell me (proudvictor) why tms^frefh Surprise?
Why am I told of Vows and dying % es?
Of ardent Love by some soft Swain pfofefs’d.
That rais’d a painful Pleasure in thy Breast??
was to fey (is that my Pleasing Pain!)
She, that so lov’d, could never love again;
That kind to others, to my self alone
Her fumiffd Bosom is a Stoiok grown.
%
0
F % ARTFUL
102 Strethon to Clio.
i
\
/
A RTFUL Enjlaver of my freeborn Mind, ’
Yet, in one Thing, i’ll own thy Art was kind:
Thou would’ft not dash me from the Top of all,
My lifted Hopes, but mollify’d the Fall. |
Full well you knew, I thought your Breast my ownj j There sat my Heart secure as on its Throne.
t
Your changing Jhoughts, that were my hidden Foes, ft Would not tpo quick their promis’d Heir depose, r '
But the Secret they by Halves difclole.
You, like Ibme subtle Minijler of State, ft
To make me Little, as you made me Great, f
Drew me by fos» Degrees to abdicate,
Thou faidft thy Int'refl call’d thee cross the Main
And a lov’d Brother courted thee to Spain.
I imocendy facrific’d my Rest •,
Happy in this alone that thou’dfi be blefs’d:
Too true, I did entreat thee to be gone.
And limply unawares my self dethrone:
But you, much confeious of feme inward Guilt, Knowing thy strephon’s Blood must sure be fpiit»
To feed my Sorrows, and make Death prevail.
Told of thy murder’d Sire a doleful Tale.
Then crafty ask’d. If I could undergo
Some heavy ifeight of vast impending tfoe, I
And so prepar’d me for the coming Blow. 3
Thou
/
Strephon to Clio. 103'
Thou hint’d at length, to finish thy D'efigni' love was mother's Share, and Death is mine.
This kinder from another's Mouth had came.
And not from thine, that rais’d the fatal Flame:
You, of all Nymphs, might this Story spare To hapless, faithful strephon’s trembling Ear.
Ill News has many Feet, and comes too soon.
And it has brought me Word that i’m undone.
Jf what i’ve heard (O Clio) should "be true,
Me have the Fates strove rightly to undo,?
And Wtt was most severely plac’d in You. ^
i’ve heard fl wish I had not Ears to hear.
Or elfe more Patience, what i’ve heard, to bear;)
i’ve heard, by Heavens! I have from strong Reports
You Uredded, when you gave me leave to Court. ^
You did not, could not, ’tis aduldrate News,
Credit I did, and I do JUU ttfvse;
Bright was the Dame that did those Tidings bear, ’
And if Maids can be false, that are so fair, C
There may’nt — Tes / —. nt^ay be Room for my Despair. J
Was this thy friendly Parting from thy swainj Was this the Voyage you would make to Spain?
Was it for such an Absence Strephon mourn’d?
And is thy Brother to a Husband turn’d?
If it be true, dear Blafter of my Youth,
Tho’ you must Hush, yet oton the stabbing Truth z
F 4 so?
'104 sxrethol^ to Clio.
For should I live, perhaps, another Day,
I Ibmew'hat harsh of thy dear Name might fey;
Strike dumb that Madnejs; and, to lay me dead.
Tell me feme happy Swain enjoys thy Bed:
Priding in Truth, i’ll my last Hours employ.
Smile in the Pangs of Death, and wish thee [oy.
\
STREPHON.
f
“N
#1 ^
\
f
■ f.
"Clio
W. -4
Sunday Nightj going to Bed
Clio ta Strephon,
having
Sent me twenty Prose Letters to excuse that Sally of Passion, into which he hurfts forth in Ms lafi Letter of Verses., upon a false Report that a Lady gave out., of my being married.
A M but this Moment return’d from Paris, ' after a long Absence from this my delight [ml: full Retirement, and hade to affure you, how
agreeable your Penitence is to me, and that I forgive you with more Pleasure than I punifldd you. For ’twas with the utmojl relubancy I lost your Commerce. It was the greateji Liberty I ever alloco’d myself in Lifcj but even that, you see, I could rejign, when it grew in convenient. I again indulge my Heart with your Letters, while they continue so innocent and engaging. Your ho ^our and your Sense will always hereafter regulate them tit for the Tajle of Clio, and then she will thirilc no mre of that Uttle Flight of pajjion., in which had the
F y lead
i06 CLIO btrephon.
least Share, and even Love itself is not mfpiring without it. I wilh not your Passion, for me (gentle Strephon) so great as your Genius, nor do I find any tyrannical plea fure, either in your Adoration, or your Illness. I entreat t may never injure your Health, which is of much Value to me. Let me imagine that Part of your Letter a well-bred pibion — My Repose requires it. For I should be truly uneajy to give you one real Pain — < Live and refine the World — be gay, and favour Clio with your remembrance— — the greatest Compliment you can pay me, send me an Express of your Recovery. I wish for nothing more, and take it very ill, you would pretend to die without my Leave, which I can never grant you, while you love me in fuctr a refpebiful Manner. Every Happiness attend you: 1 think you ought to esteem this a very high one, that I once more a jfure you, tho’ after so much Hurry, and being in Haste to go to Bed,
That I am still
9
Tout Faithful Friend,
CLIO.
S T R
¥
%
Paris, Monday Font in the Afternoon^ sick in Bed
Strephon ro Clio.
es K me not, Clio, If i’m well, or ill, ^
If still you ask me, I must answer still > it you please, and Dying, II you mil 3'
STREPHON.
P. Si No Evil comes single: Just as I incurr’d your Displeasure, a heavy Stroke of Fate reach’d me as to my Private Fortunes, and both have touch’d me so sensibly: : I fear I shall really die with a broken Heart. But, f I might have, once more, the Leave of feeing you, Tor the former, till you grant a fresh one, I fear I have forfeited, by being indiscreetly extravagant in my Love, ind my Fears of losing you,) I think I can promise my elf a Recovery, both from my Indifpojition of Mind, and ihb of Body. Since the Fault proceeded from a Height
of
N
!io strethonclio;
of Kindness, you will, to speak in the most religious Terms of the Country we are in, be kind enough to grant the Penitent Lover a plenary Indulgence and Absolution, under your oron Band. But let it be in Verse, for, to use your own Beautiful Expression, Verse is healing to the Mind.
^ Ohi then the sacred Remedy apply.
And pleas’d L U live, if not with Pleasure die.
STREPHON.
1.
’»
«
Clio
Clio to Strephon.
ES ULS, that by Mind and Genius areal
h’‘i» ^
By Sympathy and Inclinations ty’d, ^
For one another mourn — — forgive my \ Pride,
till live, and living fing to keep my Fame,
For Time and Years will murder clio’s Name i Unless thy Verse their Woundings countermand,
And I be lav’d by thy foperior Hand.
isfot Sacuarissa had immortal prov’d.
If Waller had not sung, and had not lov’d j rhofe Eyes, which the world, are sunk andidea).
But glitter fresh, when his bright Lines are read.
No Charms of Beauty everlasting prove,
Unless embalmed with Pyetfy asxa Love.
We lee the Lustre of, the Nut Brown Maid In chaucer’s Numbers to our Eyes .convey’d;
And nevo adorn’d by our excelling pry’r,
She shines upon us with redoubled, Fire.
Such are these Eyes of mine -- for strephon’s Song ^
Is ftoeet as theirs, as arduous, and as jlrong, ^
Can make mine equal, and preserve as long,
....... Let
itio Clio u Strephon.
Let others guess my Merit By thy Strain,
I ask no more.. — then Clio will be vain.
I grieve that aught should vpomd that gentle Mind To me o pleasing, to my Muse so kind.
Whole soft Difoourfes have delightful made This Corner of the world, and blessed my Shade.
But fing again, and all thy Strength oppose To rigid Fortune, and her roeighty Blows,
Nor talk of dying thus -- for that would be
A Loss to all Mankind, a Wrong to me:
If Clio, o’er thy Soul a Bight may boast.
In this important Thing obey her most.
And, when thy Sorrovos will afford thee Leaves Stray hither, that vte may together grieve.
From the Plain of T T '
St.denni*. j i X vy,
\
STRE
Strephon to Clio.
QUR last Letter was indeed a Cordial to my Hopes — I am very much recover’d and reviv’d; but my Genius still retains too great a Damp upoh it from my Afflictions, o answer yon in Verse - it can be brighten’d up again, itnuft derive a new Infpirauon from
of y^i that, indeed, according to the Defcrip -- tion which I have often heard of your Person, and the Idea which I have often conceiv’d of your Discourse, would supply the very Defect of Nature, and make a Poet of me if 1 never had been one before. I long to exceed all the Things I could ever yet write my self, by having Jnimervieyv with you for my inspiring Subject gm/ shall then be forgot, and I will be nothing but foi — duhnefs shall then be laid aside. and I will rise up even into a kind of Rapture and laudable Enthusiasm. Tho’ now I can scarce write Prose tolerably well, (so much can Affliction depreis the Genius of the moftlively Man,) yet then, when I have that Intervievo Kith you for my subjest, I will not only rise above myself, but also attempt to rival the greatest Masters in the Art oi Love, where they address themselves to the abfolhte Miftrejfes of their Hearts
112 Strethon to Clio.
I think ephat L (hall want in Genius, will be Jo much move than made up by the subjeb, that I shall not (in that one Poem on our Interview) be afraid of being compared with Tibullus, Catullus, Propertius, Ausonius, or even the great Ovid himself, or of being thought a Writer inferior to the beji of them. In the moan Time I have lent you a Poem I wrote about a Year ago, which I entitled Buckingham house: It was also put into Latin, and written to show some French Gentlemen, that all the finest Talaces were not confin’d to a [mail Distance from Paris, I desire your Opinion, if I have done some Judice to that
fine Scat. I will speedily wait on you (since I have your Leave again) to know your Sentiments concerning it from your own Mouth ■ — I am, my best Friend, and my dearest phylidaoj
Your Recovering,
And Grateful Patient,
STREPHON.
ft
TO
<
T O
ON HIS
POEM,
Entitled
SUCKING HAM ho USE.
% ^
HI S lofty Pile unenvying I furvey’d',
Gods plac’d above, and Beauties in Its C
Till by thy Verse it was immort^tnadc. only wilh to be a Buckingham,
Whilst you in deathless Numbers ling his Name.
lor does mv. Heart with so much Fondness beat. "5
?or his high Titles, or his lovely Seat, f
Is for thy Bays, and ever flo wing Wit.
Thr,
TI Clio sxrelhona^
Thy Fancy can a finer View create.
And Groves, and Birds, and Streams her Pleasure waiti Even the Deities vvith Transport gaze.
And form’d of Marble fbften at thy Lays.
Then what Impressions sheffield’s Soul mufl find
A Poet too, of thy own noble kind.
Some fine Idea happily exprefs’d Glows on his Mule, and marks it from the rest. Methinks in thine a Kindred grandeur Ihines Related to his Soul, and to his Lines:
Youth will reanimate his chilly Veins,
And wake again at thy inspiring Strains.
Apollo ne’er with greater Joy furvey’d The (lining Turrets rise, o’er which he play’d.
Than Sheffield the Productions of thy Mind,
Where manly Sense to Harmony is join’d.
“Joyful, he cries, the Age, I leave, will see A Youth, that knows to strike the Lire like me.
“Receive the Chaplet, which my Temples bound,
‘‘ And be thy Muse withal my Beauties crown’d.
Not I my self have greater pow’r to lave “The Poets Bays, or Laurels of the Brave.
“She Skill of Architects the painter’s Art,
I
‘‘ Have to the finifli’d Structure done their Part,
But, oh 1 thy Muse, Superior to the rest,
Its Guardian Angel lings its Wonders best
«
Clio to Strephon; i i 5
"These Walls by cruel Time may suffer Wrong,
“And only Shine in thy immortal Song:
Not coopers htu shall e’er survive its Pame,
'* Nor is it sung with a diviner Flame.
'* These Trees may fink, my Pleasure and my Care, V And sheffield’s Name, which now they proudly L bear, C
“Be trod with vulgar Feet, and perish there.
■* The profpeb lojl^ the Limes all humble laid,
’* Not all their Gods can guard dxexr fav’rite Shader ‘‘ Some Foreign Prince, savage and impolite,
'May wound the Grove, beneath whose Shade Iwritci!
W here are the Branches, once so sweet and young,
“Where Ovid figh’d his Flame, and Vlrgil sung
'* Time thy Verse, and all its Charms shall spare.
And Sheffi eld’s Name shall bloom forever there. Phoebus, the God of Music and of Thought,
"Sh^m guard the Wonders, ht himself has wrought. |
'* When his fierce Steeds drive to the last great Day“
“o’er the melting Cloud?; bound fwifc away j “When from their gilded Harness they shall fly.
And bear to Earth the light’ning of the Sky;
Then common Verses, with each poet’s Name,
“Expiring ftiall ajfft the mighty Flame:
“Thine shall unbounded be convey’d above,
‘‘ And teack the Angels how to fing and love..
C LI a
THE
0
Vlain St * Dennh«
T H E
INTERVIEW,
Being in the
SPRING,
JUST
After Strephon had been very much afflicted 'with Illness., and feme private Difappoint'rnents
J ■/* r
W
r
STREPHON to CLIO.
H • Clio, whilst before thy Feet \ bend.
Rd thy poet’s Fancy shall ascend. Thou canst drive Winter from the Northern
Hajien the Summer, and unbind the Frojl.
See i
Strephon w Clio; tty
^ee! the Birds leave their Nests to hear thy Voice,
U Nature gladdens, and My Cares rejoice.
t
rhe Gloom hws off, with which my Soul w^s pressed, find Love and Poetry chtc my Breast.
Dh! ev’r^ Passion is with Wonder fraught,
Use of my Lays! and Goddess of my Thought
Firg IL and Homeh on Temples
Dart me their Beauties, whilst I gaze on thine.
Ye studious Wretches, throw your Rules aside' ' creeps ftoso to Pame; ' ■ ■ ■a tedious Guide i Trust me this Charmer has a nobler Art,
• I • ^ •
makes a Poet — — — when she voomds a Heart]
Haste then ye Toilers, and tms Wonder prove,;
To be immortal, you must learn to love.,
pame waits upon her, and ajfudd Success Attends the Numbers She vouchsafes to bless.
Prior may boast the learned Minds to move, r” f
But Clio brings me Souls that know, to love.
The reader’s Her shall corifefs.
And overftoto with strephon’s Tenderness,
Nor Age nor duunefs can Her Lover find.
Whilst Her Eyes wing his Blood and cheer his Mind,
Tm World ftiall wonder by what wew found Art I baffled Death — wait Clio in my Wart.
T Ht
\
: n8 strethonclio,
THY Conveyfe can the Scene of Life prolong, ft For Vciuid Gold pours flowing from thy Song, >
Which feeds the Soul, and keeps its Spirits strong. J
Thou too immortal by the Muses Care,
Shalt shine in Dust, and be for ever fair.
Angels (hall guard it, and thy Lovefs Song,
From vulgar Teet, and ev’ry common Wrong.
Ye Peevish Beauties, who but shine an Hour]
"Envy to Death superior clio’s pow’r;
Sec livid Malice, your boasted Cheeks,
Your Lovers shudder, and the Mirror breaks
The blujhing Grape your Influence denies.
And only sparkles nov from clio’s Eyes.
/
The murder’d Pans are all in Passion torn, ft
And Gods and Goddesses expire forlorn, I
Clio looks down with Pity — and with Scorn. 5 So the tall Poplar views the Shrubs below.
Shoots to the Skies, while they negleued grow.
PLY from the Glass, overtake Her noble Flight,
So (hall the Winter of your Days be bright.
When she resigns, your Triumphs may succeed.
Thus may your Lovers fing, and Steel may read;
He is the Taster to the Goddess Fame,
And weighs the poet’s Sense, the lover’s Plame.
STREPHON.
THE
*
0
THE
INTERVIEW.
*1 Mil— — — — m ■ II— — — IIP PP I I II ■■■^^■^lll'^ II ■ ■ ■■■■ —
\
4
CLIO to STREPHON.
HO ist to the World, and negligent of Fame,",)
I lay! till Tonne from great apollo came, ^ Waking my Soul to Numbers in his Name.
Rise Clio, rise! with tuneful Voice you laid,
Leave fond Amusements, and thy mossy Bed, ^
Soar on rhe Muses Wings, and be immortal made. 3.
I wonder’d, and I trembled at the Sound,
For yet no Bays had clio’s Temples crown’d:
She knew not Fame, nor what her Stars delign’d, “Js Carving her Thoughts on some fmcoth poplar’s Rind, ^ To harmlofs Sonnets all her Verse confin’d. ^
.The
I 20 Clio to Strethon,
»
r •.
\
The Name of Wit on Holidays (he bore.
Among the Swains, nor could Jhe hope for more;
A Wedding Pojy, or a Valentine,
She knew to write, and that feem’d voondrous fine i I dream’t not great Apollo meant me more.
Till thou wer’t sent ^ahright Ambassador:
Sweet Poesy feia’d my Bojom at thy Sight, \
No more, you cry’d, in Trifies take Ddight, C
Read all the Summer's Day, and au the winter’is Night. : ^
orinoa’s and astr^^ea’s Thoughts peruse.
Blending their diff reni Beauties in rhy Muse.
Chafie as orinda’s let thy Numbers flow,
Bufwith astrjea’s Warmth inipire their jp,
And, Ob! when tender Passion is thy Theme,
Copy the Language then of sappho’s Flame,
Paint thou the Passion— — — if that can be!
Amidst the Dangers, keep thy Bosom free
i Thus, as you (peak, the God of Verse descends Into my Soul — — I loath my duller Friends j Tea table Converlations I avoid,
Averse to Nonsense, with their Scandal cloy’d.
The darksome Groves sweet Solitude I sought.
Where mo deft Silence is a Friend to Thought i Deftre of Fame pofteft my labvsng Mind, y%ifevand read, ’till ev’ty Muse grew kind:
\
>
Smooth
«
to Strethon, 121
smooth tongued Applause my lucky Thought purfu’d,
And almost rmdd clio’s Solitude;
The Morning wonders that my watchful Eyes Refi with the Moon, and yet with Phoebus rise.
I from Orinda to great Shakespeare change.
With Wonder, and with Envy, there I range;
My Soul all mov’d, I cry, give Shakefpearis Same,
0 heav’ns 1 and when you please, diftblve this Frame.
1 ask not Life, nor Fortune, but the Art,
As He does mine, to touch the reader’s Heart,
Let others be content to please the Sight,
t>et Me afford more exqnijite Delight
The foi of Admiration I would prove.
To fhort liv’d Toajls, I yield the God of Love:
i.et Mb, hereafter be with Transport read.
My Numbers shining, when my Eyes are dead:
mine’s an Ambition that nor likes, nor needs The gilded Chariot, or the dapled Steeds,
How dull (my starslj was giddy Phaeton?
I would not wish the Chariot of the Sun,
Nor juno’s Birds, to bear me thro’ the Skies,
But on the Wings of Verse alone I wish to rise.
CLIO.
G clio’s
1
1
**'^*** ** ■''** *' * ' '
clio’s PICTURE.
*
%
>
• A
. Ill II — i — ■!■■«■ ..... ii i
By hersels.
.u. mm. - _ m0m^^mnmmammmm^0m^mmmmmtmt^^m0mmm0mmmmmmm4^mmmmm^m0mmmm mmmmmrn^mmmm
i
Here let the Muse perform the painter’s
And strike the Picture of my Face and
Pqefy is call’d the Image of the Mind,
In mine my Soul and Body both are join’d. Large is my Forehead made, not wond’rous fair.
But Room enough for all the Muses there j
4
Full are my Eyes, arid of a harmless blue.
As if no Wound they made, or Dart they knew.
My Eyebrows, circ’iing o’er, a Shade bestow.
Veiling the Dullness of the Eye below.
Nature, so niggard to the upper Part,
Fell to my Lips, and gave a Dash of Art:
Oft have I heard her faithful Lover swear.
That Poetry and Love were (lining there.
Even
f
clio’s PICTURE. 123
Even and white my Teeth, but rarely shown.
In Life i’ve little Cause for smiling known;
The Loss of Friends fell on my tender Years,
dafli’d ev’ry Hope, and turn’d my Smiles to Tears.
A gloomy Sweetness on my Features hung.
Sorrows my Pen, and Trembles on my Tongueii Slow is its Speech, and with no Music fraught.
Wronging the Richness of my soul’s best Thought.
/
But, whither is the mournful Pencil ftray’d, "ft
My Hair dark brown wants not Bucelsad Aid, F
flo\vs in the Wind, nor of the Comb afraid
Beneath my Waist in nat’ral Rings descends, “ft
Or pliant to the artful Singer bends, V
When it betides, that Dress and I are Friends.
Easy my Neck, but of no darling White
veil’d by the Lawn from the inquiring Sight.
My Shoulders full as nature’s self informs:
Small are my Fingers, nor too plump my Armsj
To the nice Eye no Transport they afford.
But to the Ear they press the speaking Cord j
Then mv Cares murmur with a lower Breath,
'/
Drop from my Eyes, and weep themselves to Death. ev’n now they prese to wrong this artless Draught, brib’d by my Fate to ruin ev’ry Thought.
G 2 My
J
124 clio’s PICTURE.
My Feet with no ungraceful Motion tread,
Tho’ Ifaads Steps are from my mem’ry fled.
To decent Height my Stature is inclin’d,
Worthy the Muses, and a gen’rous Mind.
To thy kind Eyes Clio submits her Form,
Thy Verse can give it, every absent Charm.
Thou, in whom Art and Love, and Nature shines. Immortalise my Picture in thy Lines.
\
■ A
^ «
A Critical
ESSAY,
Containing Some Remarks upon the Nature of Epistolary and Elegiack
p o E T R Y, ‘
And the most
Beautiful Passages
7
«
In the Epistles of
Clio and Strephon.
K
^ • •
By Way of Letter from Mr. John Porter, to his Friend Richard Pocock ^ Turfield court, in the County ef Bucks, Esq;
Dear Sir,
^ I" Editor of the foregoing Poems being pleased to pafs a Compliment upon my Judgement, first desired me to
Opinion of this Performance.
And really, when I had read them
‘ G 3 over,
*
0
isss AY m the
over, I own I was teimted to speak my Mind of them, and, by way osgratitude, to make a small Retiuti of Praise to a Work, which adminifter/d so much Heafure tome in the Reading. I wasmuwilling to do this in public Print, after such a Manner, as to seem delivering my Opinion to the world, ijecaufe that' Would carry with it' tob much of the Appearance of a pyofefi Cmuky a' Thing, which ► I dare openly profess I am not; and I wish, what I havfe here written, does not more plhinly de? clare' that Truth for me, than I do:, for my sele I therefore choose to give mine rather as a private Opinion to a Friemd. who'j if he could not entire r Jy come into my Sentiments, would be so kind, at least,, as not to ceiefme me. Tfte* first Moment I thought of doing it, to what a Man may. call his Friend, in the genuine and extensive Sense of the Word, you will not Wonder, that you was the first Person I pitched upon, who have a long, Time favoured me with ybur Conversation.. enjoined me to make Freedom and Farpiliarity tfie chief Articled of it; and therefore I begin with 0uf further cereiti’ony.
IT has been remark’d by the ingenious Major Pack, that, though there is nothing, in which Wit, Humour, and Gallantry, makes So great a Figure as in Letters, yet the English have not many Collections of Familiar Letter that are of any Value; and I must add, that in my Reading, I don’t remember to have met with anv in Verje, I mean, where a. correspondqice has
been
- r
%
I
Eplflies of Clio and Strephon. 12 7
been carried on for a Space of Time, Those Sew, that ever appear’d, feem’d to be the Works of Invention, and Starts and Sallies of Fancy, and have (as they proceeded from nothing but a Lust of Wit) been accordingly filled and crowded with indecent Images. But these, which I offer to you, have, besides their Novelty, many innocent Charms, that make them Sweetly entertaining. The Correspondence between Clio and Strephon first took its Rise from the Likiiig 1| and Esteem which they had for each other, from, a mere Acquaintance with their Writings, and at last, in the progress, it grew into an Ideal Love, when they had no Knowledge of one another, but by Descriptions from a third person; and the' Booh itself concludes with the firji ■interview they ever had. Where a mutual and passionate Flame was thus first lighted up in the Minds of young People, what Elegance of Expression is it we might not expect from them When Love makes its Inroad through the Eyes to the Heart of Man, Love is Seldom the cause of a lasting Esteem; but both the fondness and the Value pall with Enjoyment, and vaiiifh with the tasted Charms. But where reciprocal Esteem is got into the very Soul, a bare Liking of persons connects them in an indissoluble Tie of Love and Friendship: No Esseem can be lassing, which is grounded upon that capricious Humour of the Eye, which we salsely, though commonly call Falling in Love with anybody; but Love is eter
G 4 nal,
ii A Critical Essay on the
nal, where a true inward Esteem is its Forerun * iier. It would be therefore to do them an Injury, to pretend to make a thorough Parallel between theirs and any other Love Epijiles., there never having appear’d any before of the Same Nature, and these being perfesi Originals in their Kind. Letters of Love and Friendship between a young Lady and a Gentleman, who never beheld one another’s Faces, no not So much as in Effigy, are Things, I believe, So very rare., that they have been never heard of till now; and yet 1 believe I may Say, there are other Things be stdes as rare belonging to these Letters, and those are the beautiful and inimicable Turns of Wit, with which they as Jingularly express the Passion of dieir Minds, as the Passion is itself fingulare The next Rarity of them is, that there is all the Softness of Love, without the Indecency of it; and even the man’s Part, if it betrays a Thought or Wish beyond what the purest Maid might en tertain with sasety to the Virginity of her Mind, it is with a Tendency to that State, which is very honourable, and than which nothing but Virginity itself is more laudable; and the Fair, in full poiseffion of all the treasured Beauty, Virtue, and Bloom of Fifteen, may read every Line of if, with as much Innocence, as she may hear a kind Expression, or behold a Look, more kind than ordinary, pass between her Father and Mother.
But Sir, I would not have it thought, that I endeavour to talk these Epistles into Credit, mere
Epiflies of Clio and Strephon. i 2 9
ly because I like them, and have a Taste for them my self: For, if I did not believe they would certainly procure a great Reputation for themselves, I would never have presamed to offer them to you. But I have a Mind to venture into the World my Remarks upon Some Passages, that I think more particularly beautiml, and my Observations upon Several Turns of Wist, Humour, and Passion, which I take to be peculiar to this kind of Epistolary poesy. By this Means,, 'y when I come to hear whether you and the world ^ or approve my Notions, I Oiall reap the Delight and Benefit of finding my own Judgement, either confirmed, or elfe fet right and proved.
In these Remarks, I Shall first have an Eye to the Part which the Lady bears in this Work; she indeed plainly appears to be ihq fair one mmindy. as well as in Sex: And if the Signs of bold and “manly Strength are here and there to be found in the (jenius of Strephon, the Sirens, the Smiles., and the Graces warble conquer and awe
almost in every Line of Clio, and her Mind was'furely Sormed to excite such an intellesiual Courtship. I almost grow a Rival to the Poet, wshen, 1 write of his mistress that I never Saw, and I Sancy every ingenious Man will be the same that reads her When first the Word Angel was attributed to ifaman, I believe it was in Some measure properly applied to a fair one that resembled Clio; and theterm has been shamefully misused by others ever since, till it is now ag
y gain
I JO J Critical Essay the
gain applied only to her., from the nearer refem blance she Seems to bear to thole bright Spirits, than to any of the witiiefl; of her own Sex.
#
First LETTER, Page i.
the very first Letter of hers which is extant, the Poetry is full of but as full of Purity \ she shows herself eminently distinguished from all her Sex. For tho’ she has (as I have been informed) as many exterior Charms, as might alone render a young Woman very vain of herself, yet, though her Male Correspondent press fcs very hard to see her, she artfully difparages her own person, to try, as it were, if Wit alone could be enough of itself to win him, and owns' that the Same Power in a Man would prevail with her, let his personal Appearance be what itwmuld.
I think she Speaks of herself under the pretended Disadvantages of the Smallpox, and a spoiled Completion., in Lines as fprightiy and tempting as I ever stead.
But heav’n forbid that you should ever see That Outside, which the Vulgar World calls me. Nature has been ungentle to my Face,
With artless Fingers shadowed evsty Grace :
Deep has she left her cruel Marks behind.
As il she meant to fear my very Mind.
My
«
Dpiflles of Clio and Strephon. i 3 i
My Sksh she sullied with a sallow Hue,
That scarce my Soul is seen to Iparkle thro’.
4
She then comforts herself under these assumed Disadvantages with what (when she calls them her little Talents in Poetry) she proves to be the greatest that can be; and then artfully steals into the reader’s Soul, by convincing him, that je Favour, which she would do him in overlooking all corporal Imperfections, was immensely due ^ from him to herself in these concluding Lines. ^
Whatestr thy Person be, I shall o’er pafs,
Who would throw Diamonds by to look on Glass?
Or who would mind the Stars imperfect Light,
When the great God of Day attracts the Sight?
I
Second LETTER, Page 4.
\ \
H E answer which Strep hon makes, ap pears to be skilfully Suited to the Taste of his mistress: He had told her before (as appears by her first Letter) what Idea he had formed of her Person from Description, (and ’tis really a Pity it is lost.)
And he therefore now tacitly acquiesces in what she Says of herself, and makes his Advantage ol it, by giving her a Defcripdon of his own Person, which he calls an indifferent Figure, and by desiring her, as it were, beforehand
to keep her Word with him, and to let that be no
Obstacle
132 ^ Critical essav on the
■obstacle to her bestowing her Love upon him, when he stiould come to make his Appearance before her, and makes that Confidence in her Promise, a farther Argument still, why he must venture to see her.
Third LETTER, Page 7.
%
TJ ER Reply to this is by way of a poetic Dream, where she makes her Fancy kindly represent him to herself in most advantageous Colours, notwithstanding those in which he had painted himself to her Imagination before. The vvholc Epistle is soft, tender., and engaging; and, though it is even Supposed to be a Dream of a Woman concerning her hoverit appears more like the virtuous Rapture of a kind well wilhing Friend and is nlled with moral and pious Semi
raettts.
Fourth LETTER, Page 11.
TNSPIR.D with Such a good-natured opi nion, as she has of him, he next (what we might naturally enough expect from him) went to See her, but he is forced to wnite her Word of it, or file had been ignorant of the Matter; for, it Seems when he came even to her house, his Heart failed him, and he had not Courage enough to venture in, or even to inquire for her. This
whe
Eplflles of Clio and Strephon. 13 3
(whether an affeflionate Truth, or a well-bred fiduon) was certainly (where a virtuous Mind was first to be engaged and subdued) a majierly Step towards gaining Pity., Benevolence, and af fesiion. And such a Pidiure of a Man s Modefiy, where a Virgin Mind, so vjitty and so pure, was to be tempered and melted into Love, was his befi Expedient; for it naturally mollifies the most rigid Virtue, by not feemlng to dare to aim at so high an Attempt. True Virtue is generous and
humble in itself, pities those who are too much awed by it, and, out of mere Humanity., condescends to be familiar', but where Boldness presses upon her Retirement, and invades her ‘privacy.^ she is alarmed., and takes State upon her with a decent Pride. Thole lose Ground w’ho would think to gain it, as is practised with good Success in the ordinary Course of Courtfloip. A Wo
man’s Love, which begins in her Eye, is of a coarser Mould, than Love which begins in her Mind. In that her Body has the first Share, and tempts the Mind to her own Frailty, in this though. Mind of the Woman is free from all Frailty of its own, and if she consents at least to love she gratifies the Frailty of the Man and not her own, ■awdi. permits the frail human hover, in order to enjoy more closely the purer Part oi him, the Angelical Friend. In this therefore he has used the true Art of a Courtier; an Art the more to be admired, because it is just, and yet uncommon, delaying to see a Mhlrefs, whom he longed, and whom he had Leave to see. In order to dispofe
her
4
IJ4 ^ Critical essa's on the
her Mind for Love, while he thus covertlyht%s\t, he sends her the Part of Love between (Florinda and Tancredi, which is one of the most: moving Episodes in all Torquato Tasso, translated by his own Hand.
N. B, These Fragments from Tasso, which were given over for lost, have been recover’d since Mr. Portefs Death, who would elfe have given us his Remarks, and are here inserted with the Letter which accompanied them to Clio.
Hfth LETTER, - Page 49.
f
^ LI o’s Answer to this Letter of his, and on ^ his Version of Tasso, which he sent her at the same Time, is so entirely beautisul, that no particular Part of it can be named as fine, without doing Injury to the others that remain unnamed. For iris one continue dbenuty au throughout, beginning with an Exclamation of her being forced to retire, even from his Voice, because his Modesty won upon her so much in not appearing himself, shows the Greatness of the generojl ty of Mind, I defcrib’d above, to the highest per fecstion, and renders her more amiable than ever, and makes her move Love more in Proportion, as she appears more moved with it herself: p’or, there, even a Passion is built, where it is very rarely bu sst, upon the jirongeji Foundation of the jiriffteji Honour, fa^foundejlfudgment. Now
}
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 135,
I canst refill: the Temptation of singling out some Lines of hers, which, I will venture to fiy, arc more than any Man could deserve, tho’ Ihe is pleas’d to address them to her Strephon; ’ (I fancy I am here growing again his Rival, and that I envy him as much a Mistress, whom I never Saw, as he lov’d her before he Saw her,) and I single them out, because I own they please my Taste particularly, and because the exprelsions mostly seem to be turned in that graceful, easy, natural, and yet jlrong Manner, for which Mr. Addison, who is now Immortal, was so eminently conspicuous.
The World, which feem’d a Trifle to my Viewi Is lest destiis’d, since ’tis adorn’d by you;
And I its empty Pleasures could endure.
Were but my Soul of such a Friend secure;
how/eip in all the Tour of Life we find.
That either can improve or charm the Mind?
Scarce can my Thought, in all the boasted Crowd, Recall one Friend to make my mem’ry proud,
Tho’ much of Flattery my Youth has prov’d,
(For I have been, what others call, belofdfy Yet still, my nicer Inclination found Some happy Fault to keep me yet unbound.
After this, turning all her Pleasure and Care to her Muse, and praying him to do the like; and then running imperceptibly into the Praise of
the
V
^6 A Critical E s say on the
the Tenderness of his Composition concerning the Loves of Clorinda and Tancredi, to evade the Love offered by him to herself; all these, I say, are Beauties, which, if they were to be found in any of the andent Writers of poetical Love Epijiles, I except not even the great Masters, Ovid and Tibullus themselves, many Pages would be filled by Commentators in their Praise.
Sixth LETTER, Page yi.
HE next is Strephon s Letter; and there he recapitulates in a Dream all the Lady has said to him, and answers it Paragraph by Paragraph, by way of Dialogue, turning all very dexterousty to his own Favour. But the Place, which he Seems most to turn to his Advantage, is that, wherein he introduces her endeavouring to divert his Mind from the farther pursuit of Love, and to join with her in cultivating those Social Studies, which were vdiolly to terminate in the muses, whom she is pleas’d to call his Friends; and that consequently, by his Interest in them, he may perpetuate her Fame, which, she modefily instnuates, would not long Substst ' without his Help: These Words of hers he turns thus; and where she Seems most to avoid his Courtship, there he pusheth it the most home.
Clio
Epistles of Clio Strephon; 13 f
Clio is all my Pleasure and my Care,
'And Tno other’s Fetters wish to wear :
To me then, Clio, all thy Fondness give.
And let thy truest, tcndsteft Lover live.
Of that I can no Danger apprehend.
If ev’ry Muse is, as thou fey’ft, my Friend.
heav’n knows, of all the Nine, but one I choose.
Ye heav’ns! let Clio be that friendly Muse;
Then future Ages will repeat my Name,
For, if she’d wear it, she wpu’d give it Fame,
Seventh LETTER, Page 59.
foregoing Letter had, it seems, the Miss -*• fortune to be detain’d a whole Month by a Lady, to whom the Care of it was entrusted, before it was deliver’d to Clio, which occastons, in her Answer, many Expressions of Regret, and tenderest Resentment, upon the Account of her not receiving it sooner. She praifeth the chajuty of his Dream, and fignistes, that the Goddess of that Virtue gave her Leave to approve it; and, when she has answer’d the Objection of those Prudes, who might make an Exception against her going such Lengths in her Favour to him, she flies into a metaphorical Rapture of Poetry, that the Letter did not sooner come into her Hands, which, if Longinus was again to live, and to be the Judge of, he would certainly place
down
138 A Critical Essay m the
down as an Example of the Sublimes The ■ Words are these
*«
guardian Angel should have been their guidej And to his Wings thy amstous Paper tyss:
In bearing of the glorious Sheets along,
Apollo would have caught the flying Song j And, as he cut along the lower Sky,
Thy Verse had taught his Pinions how to fly.
H er placing him afterwards in so liven a Manner before her Sight, andexpreffingheitdeas, that fly sees his very Features, his Shape, his Air, his Look glowing, as it were, when he fortunately hits upon an Expression, which he thought would please her, is a Mafier stroke in Writing, which Mature must have dictated, an^art could not teach; and Hire theway with which Women charm their Lovers, when they own they are charmhd, and by which, when they signify their Lovers steal into their Minds, they rather steal into the Minds of their Lovers: She Seems to be persuading, whilst fly fears to be persuaded; and her Mind, in the Close, of this Letter, appears to be brought to that progress in ideallove, as a young woman’s is in pradlical Courtship when her denying is so saint, that it may pafs for Granting: And this she exprejfes in so artful A. Manner, as might injirudi the most courtly Maid how to afi on the same Occasion.
‘ s
The
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 13 f
The pow’r of Verse my ravish’d Soul has prov’d,
So can’ll thou charm, and fois Clio mov’d.
What artful Methods the Poetic find.
To steal themselves into the reader’s Mind?
I should receive thy dang’rous Wit with Care,
- For, Oh! the Poet lies in Ambush there.
I see, I hear thee, thy persuasive Art!
Oh! keep thy Verse, and let me keep my Heartj Or if, O gentle Bard! thou art my Friend,
While thou attack’ft, instruct me to defend.
Eighth LETTER, Page .53;
I N the next Letter Strephon may be fiippofed to try his utmost Interest in her Breast, upon this Encouragement, tho’ the Letter is unfortunately lost; whereupon Clio, in her Answer to it returns to her first Entrenchment, and places all her Praises in Platomck Love wndpure Friend' ' She calls him a Spirit, alluding to his f(fr mer Dream, his Breaji, (he says, is Athereaf she owns that, in that Sense, she converfeth with him at Midnight; that she has pray’d to have a Lover like him made of Airlays his is not an earthly Fajfion, but a more transcendent Flame, and that Love itself is too mean a Name for it. But, before fly concludes, Ihe acknowledgeth the Power of his Verse has excited some soft l^eelings in her Bosom, vows she will retire, yet
owns
t ^
\
[140 A Critical E s say on the
owns she cannot; desires him not to court her, for fear she should yield; and a thousand other beautiful Tendernesses she expresses altogether; but, at lass, she hath Recourse again to her jirongeji Retreat, turns all this Tide of Rapture into mere fp’mtual Fondness, claims her lover’s Approbation for the Honour of doing so, and, at the lame Time as she rejefis his Love, she demands his eternal Friendship, and iiitreats hirn in his spiritual Capacity to vijlt her every Night.
Thus Ipeaks my Soul; but it, alas 1 is join’d, 'y
To human Clay, which is to Rules confin’d, ^
And thou thy self would’ft chide it, if too kind;
Yet whatsoever rigid Form attends, i Let us at least— — — be Friends,
And I entreat thee, Oh! my charming Spright
In Verse tovifit Clio evsty Night.
Ninth LETTER, Page 66.
HE next Letter is strephon’s, and contains a melancholy Account of the Interruption of the Gaiety and Pleasure of their Loves: The Subject of this Interruption is nothing less than his receiving the ill News that the Mistress of his tender Affections is fallen sick. The greateji Beauty that I observe in this Letter is, that the Heart of the Writer appears plainly to have a greater Share in the Compojition of it than the
Head,.
Epistles of Clio and Strephoii. 3 4 s
Head. His Description of Death approaching in all its Terrors with Impatience to demand him, and saying it would be lets dreadful than that ill News; and then next his disbelieving it upon her being the Care of Heaven, and again; turning back to his first Fears, are the perfect Nature, and the true Workings of a Mind diftrefs’d for ■ the Indisposition of a Mistress, His turning aiid falling immediately to his Prayers for her Recovery, and signifying that he vtiu remain upon ms Knees till an Express brings him the glad Tidings of her restored Health, are Such lively Strokes of Imagery, that I fancy him before my Eyes in that supplicating Posture And I remark, that it is the first Letter we have of his in Prose, which in some measure shows the Passion between them to be natural, and not feign’d, in as much as her illness put him under too great a Perturbation'of Mind, to express himself in his darling jvay of Courtship, that of Poetry.
Tenth LETTER, Page.
%
io E R answer to him is likewise in prose, and
she adapts everything to the Subject of her illness: In the Midst of it she is not, indeed, employ’d in the Reading of his Letters; that would have been an improper Amusement for a sick Woman. No, she read Religion; but even that must be in his Essays, which, as she tel is him, he makes, as it really is, the fineji Subject upon
Earth.
%
I
142 A Critical E s say on the
Earth. And here I observe, that those Ellays were probably that Book, the rcadhig of which, as mentioned in the Title of the first: Page, gave her the first: Liking to him, and occasioned their Correfpondeiice. — As, when she is ill, she is resolved to seem to owe her serious Devotion to him, so, upon the first Appearance of her growing better, the only real Pleasure she seems to be able to take is, conversing with him again in Verse, which she calls healing to her Mind, and concludes with desiring it in the following Rapture.
Oh! then the sacred Remedy apply,
And pleas’d I’H live, if not, with Pleasure diei
Eleventh L E T T E R, Page 69.
T N the next Letter Strephon answers the Request of his Clio; and now his Mind is more at Ease on the Consideration of her being in a likely Way of Recovery, writes to her in Verse, and makes her Sickness the Subjebi of his Letter; and, the whole, (if I may give my Opinion) seems to be a ftudiedpiece; it is not like his other Letters; ’tis undertaken rather as a Task, than by Choice; it has more of Art than Nautre in it: There are many sublime Touches in st that demand our Approbation, nay, even force our ad miration, although the others, according to my Taste, are much more taking.
Twelfth
(
Epistles of Clio M.d. Strephon. 14 5^
Twelfth LETTER, Page 73.
next Letter is also written by Stre« PH ON, and is an Answer to clio’s Letter on Platomck Love, writ just before her Sickness: : this he returns to hh formerivay of Courtship, writds with all the Softness in Nature; he takes Occasion to argue, from his Tenderness to her in her Illness, that she should return the same Compassion to his Mind labouring under the Pangs of Love; and exploding, with a great deal of Humour, that too fpirituahad jeay of court pip in the Platonic Kind, he tells her, that he is her Lover in plain Terms, that he is composed of Body as well as and, therefore, with their Angelical Converse, they ought to mingle the Difeourfes of the Woman and the Man: He ventures to own those two dreadful Disadvantages in a Suiter, the Disagreeableness of his Person, and the low (Condition and Poverty o? his Fortune, and throws the Iflfue of his Plea wholly upon her Mercy and Generojity, the two Virtues
upon which he could most rely, as being the most predominant in her Soul.
f
Their
f'44 '4 Critical E s sat on the
Thirteenth LETTER, Page ■^6.
^ LIO irititles her; next Letter An Answer to ^ both strephon’s admirable Epistles concerning her Illness and Platonic Love. In the first six and twenty Lines of this Letter she makes him the highest Compliments upon the Verses he writ on her Indisposition during the Time of the great Storm. Storms, she says, grow gentle, Thunder softens at the Sound of his Verse. She compares them to all the sweetest Instruments of Music, even up to david’s Harp; she owns that the Passions of her Soul are chilled and warmed, as the Poet pleases; she describes the angel’s descending, hearing, and wondering at his Voice, becoming his Friends, and carrying up his Prayers for her in the Midst of the Storm; to the Effect of which Prayers she beautifully attributes the Recovery of her Health; and, whilst file is praising the Loftiness of his Expressions, exceeds them with her own, and is, herself, the hest Example of the Sublime she commends. At the twenty seventh Line she begins to take him to Task for writing his other Letter against pla tonick Love, with a Vein of exquisite Humour and Pleasantry: The Words are these;
But with my Praises I shou’d Chidings join.
Thy Body is inform’d of our Design.
Did
Epistles of CL io and Strephori. 145
Did I not tell thee, it a Share wou’d claim.
And strive to damp our everlasting Flame?
And Clio has a Rival now I find.
Who knows the Ibfteft Secrets of thy Mind: i
Thou art not an entire Angel yet.
But hast a little of the serpent’s Wit.
After this little Sally of Humour is over, wherein the Sound of the Verse is perfectly altered to the Sense, and the Style made more familiar, the to express that of Raillery; Ihe, at last' ' altumes the Platomck again herself, and flying into a fresh Rapture upon Angelical Love, she again makes the Words agree with the Sense, and is all Pompous., Magnificent, and Sonorous. The Lines are these j
A Day will come, thou wilt be all refin’d>
Thy Body as immortal as thy Mind;
Then near thy heav’nly Form my Soul shall stay
And pafs, with thee the never ending Day.
A little longer, tedious Life will end.
And we like Stars together shall ascend:
Or fhfe»u’d I lose thee in the shining T hrong, '
> I soon should find thee, by thy deathless Song;
Sure a peculiar Brightness thou wilt wear, '
From all the sparkling Crowd of Poets there.
Sing on, and shorten life’s insipid Race,
I long to meet thee in a nobler Place,
H v/here
w
#
: J A Critical E s say on the
Where Spirits of our Rank appear in State,
'And those of lower Merit humbly wait.
But when she has shown all this Divinity of ' Mind (as I may call it) she is still afraid that she must be Woman at last, and apprehends falling into the Frailty of consenting to his Desires, though the very Ground upon which she fears to doit, is a Virtue, and not a Frailty: She sees his Mind amiable, and hears from his own Mouth, that he has a Body which disturbs his Mind with the Inclinations of Love; and yet he has told her it is a deformed one, and not likely to gain a Return of Affection from the Fair. Therefore out of mere Pity she encourages him; she admits the Lover to secure the Friend, and can be said to do no more than just generoujly to bring, or rather force herself to ensure the corporal Man, for the sake of the tnteh ledlual one.
But cease to think thy noble Mind undone,
Tho’ Nature put thy Body loosely on.
If ’tis unworthy of the brighter Guest,
Which warms thy Verse, and sparkles in thy Breast'
'can forgive thy uningaging Clay,
^ Suppose it even what thy Numbers fey. ^
After this may expect her Consent; for Pity, as yix.sdryden says, still foreruns approaching Love, as Lightning does the Thunder. But
Oh!
0^
^ijiles of g\io and Strephon 147
Oh! how full of Beauty is the yielding Maid!
Did ever so much fearful granting, retracing, blushing, trembling, bewitching appear in
Afiion. as there is here lively painted in Express, ion??
-
What wouldst thou more? — thy Numbers I prove,
0
I like my self— — give thte leave to love.
But, Oh! encroaching Mortal as thou art.
Let still thy Spirit have the greatest Part;
You may admire me, all the Ways you can.
Give me the Lover, but keep back the Man:
Yet even him, perhaps, my Eyes cou’d bear,
Because thy Soul, (which is my Friend.) lives there'.
Let Clio still her Empire, there, maintain, y
Sweet are her Laws, and gentle is her Reign, V
She shall not tyrannise, nor thou complain. j
She has no sooner consented, but she seems
♦ /
beautifully ashamed of the conlenting Letter; fly can endure her own Writings ho longer, and his only are suitable to hertafte; sheexpoftulates with him, that Love ought to be dumb, but when he is the Lover, it ought to speak, because his Eloquence aline is able to jujitfy a maid’s being kind.
I just again have read thy Letters o’er.
And therefore can endure my own no more;
H a From
V
148 A Critical Es say on this
From whence do all thy Ibft Expressions come.
Sure not from Love, for Love, you know, is dumb; But such a Passion may I never prove.
Give me a speaking and a writing Love,
One, that can with suck Eloquence persuade.
And jujiify the Kindness of a Maid.
The whole Letter may stand a better Example of Epistolary Poetry, than any one I can find among the Ancients: It seems to have been written by a Lady who had a full.and lawful Call from Minerva and Nature to Poetry, and to have been led by Nature likewise to this soft Subject of Love; so that there is left no Room to wonder that this should be one of the most perfect Pieces in the Composition, in which both Art and Nature have conspired; and really where a Woman born by Nature m leit and Poetess, writing to a Man she loves for his Sense, and by whom she is belov’d for her own, first acknowledges her Consent to his Courtship, what Beauties might one not expect in a Letter where ivit and Nature, Art and Study, Love, Modefiy, Passion, and Virtue, join their Forces, and exert themselves to make it fine? This must be the verse which contains in it Such Charms, which cannot jfail to affect all Hearts with Pleasure, that are capable of receiving any, and to Sooth all Minds that are fusceptible of the Notions of Love: When she commends his Wit, her owii Lines are full of it; when she Speaks of the Lofti
uefs
VI

Eplflles of Clio and S trephoni 149
nefs of his Expressions, her own are much more sublime; and when she rallies him for not being able to keep within the Bounds of Platonic Love, her Words gently steal and Hide into a Smoother Course of Style; fly conveys her Notions familiarly, and in the ealieft Way imaginable; but when she enters upon the Praise of Platonic Love, fly grows again divine, like her Subject, her Sentiments rise with the Theme, and her Expressions with her Sentiments; when she touches upon Morality and Virtue, she does ft with the nicest Propriety and Delicacy; when she pities the Passion that disturbs his Breast, she in feiilibly leads herself into Love, and to use the Exprestion of the ingenious Major Pack, She ir
born gently down the Tide of Tenderness, in soft and easy Gales of fpajfion. And all the while she is thus yielding, Virgin Modefiy (if I may be allowed So bold a phrase) glows and blushes, as it were, in her very Lines, and adds athoufand new Charms to the other 'Beauties of this Poem.
Fourteenth LETTER, Pag.si.
next Letter is strephon’s; in which he exprelteth the increase of his Passion, and describes the different Feelings which wmrk upon him with greater Vehemence than ever. While he is reading over and over again the last condescending .Letter, he would fain give Spiritual Love the Drop, and quit it entirelyhe has noth, ing
H 3 more
150 A Critical E s say on the
more of the Angel left iri him, but turns perfectly Man, and has no Iboner obtained the least Glimpse of a Promise, but he is passionately eager, impetuous, and prejfmg for Enjoyment. But yet, amidst all the Hurry of his Desire, he takes the nicest Care not to be so passionate as to prove ofienfive; he paints Enjoyment, but then it is in The purest Images; he artfully makes Fancy personate himself, and in a Transport of Imagination, catches her sleeping in her Garden, (alluding to her Letter, entitled. The Dream, p. 7,) goes as Sar intheluscious Difcription as stealing a kiss from her, and 'wishing it might excite in her the Same ’defires, as he felt, by Sympathy; and concludes with a Sigh that he could go no farther, and that what he even pofifest was only iiithonght, and not in Reality; but then he comforts himself with the Hopes of amore actual Enjoyment from the Leave fly had given him to Love. That kind Leave he dwells upon, with all the Fondness of a desiring Lover; he flies into a Rapture upon it; he gains his mistress in Thought, and finillies his Letter in an extasy.
This said, I just was yielding to Despair,
Butsthy last Letter dissipated Care:
There, there you say — my Numbers you approve Afou like yourself— — give me Leave to love.
Leave? ~ O ye Cupids bear the Tidings high,
As the bright Orb that circles round the Sky j
To
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 15 r
To distant Worlds my plighted Love proclaim.
To distant Nations her dear Accents name:
She gives me Leave — O found those Words again! And found them, ’till the lovely Maid I gain!
Fifteenth LETTER, Page 84.
A S it commonly happens in other Things, when Hopes are at the highest, that they meet with unexpected cross Accidents, and have the greater Full; so fared it with Strephon in his Love: When his Imagination was wound up to the highest Pitch, and he thought his mistress his owe; a Letter full of killing News comes to his Hands from Clio, wherein she tells him she has heard from an only Brother in Spain, who invites her thither: She tells him the passionate Desire she has to see him aster seven Years absence, will prevail with her to venture; yet at the Same Time she afishres him, that she should be grieved to leave nothing more than his tender Correspondence, and intreats him to, contrive someway of keeping it up. Thus all his Hopes are defeated at once, and wshen he thought he was nearest obtaining the Lady, she was going to Spain, the furthest from him: He did not want the Means of contriving a Correspondence with her in a foreign Climate, but what he most passionately wanted was, a much closer Correspondence.
H 4 This
I 5 i ^ Critical E s say on the
This unexpected Distress gives an Occasion for one of the most passionate, (and what I thiiik one of the best) Letters he has written.
Sixteenth LETTER, Page 8 6.
CTREPHON in the very Beginning of this ^ Epistle seems perfectly thunder struck with the News of his mishess’s Departure; bewilder’d, ask were, withwoe^ he begins his Letter as Nature always dictates in such Cafes, abruptly, as Rhetoricians call it, and in this Place it is the greatest Beauty foto begin. Starting, as it were, in Surprise, he pictures, to his Imagination, a Number of Merchants standing on a Shore, beholding their Ships richly laden, and under Sail, dancing towards them on the curling Waves with a flattering Gale, thinking their Merchandizes already safe in their Hands, exulting and leaping with Joy at the happy Sight, andblef. fing Fortune as a Goddess that was indulgent to their Wishes; but then he immediately paints the Wayward Female Deity, amidst all her capricious Humours of Mutability and Inconstancy: She fpightsully commands, and Aeolus obeys, the Winds rise blustering, the Clouds gather, the Seas swell into Mountains, the Merchants com plaui in vain, the tall Masts fink behind the riling Billows, and they have no farther Use for their Eyes but to weep. After this lively Picture of, Woe, he brings the Parallel home, and carries
home
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. i 5.5
home the Allegory throughout with great exact iiefs and Nicety. She is to him more precious than the Diamonds; the Fluctuations of a Mind in Love he justly compares to the troubled Sea; her Arms are his secure Harbour, and her Smiles are his inviting Coast. At lash by her Consent he seems approaching to her with the greatest Security; but just at that Instant, the same fickle Goddess of Fortune snatches her away from his Sight. This Allegory Suits so much to my Taste, and is so full of lively Imagery, that I must insert it here, as being one of those 1 account the most beautiful Passages. After having represented the merchant’s Distress as above, he carries on the Comparison.
How nat’ral ’tis to feel a Wretch his Moan,
When small Reflection makes the Cafe one’s own?
Richer were I, than those that share the East,
If thy soft Form my clasping Arms poflefe’d:
On Seas of Troubles has my Mind been tofs’d, ^ Long sought, thro’ Risques of being ever losh F Thy Arms its Harbour, and thy Smiles its Coast : ^ Sometimes in H open, but oft’ncr in Despair,
’till you at length inclin’d to hear my pray’r.
t.
Just as to home row’d Barks, th’mcreafing Shores, Jet forth, and seem to meet the lab’ring Oars,
So tow’rds thy Bosom did I Iwiftly steer,
theway fcem’d fhorten’d, and the Sky was clears
H 5- You
/
r
154'^ Critical Es say on the
You feem’d approaching — nature’s self was gayi
And I ferener than a summer’s Day j
But destiny’s black Clouds still lurk’d behind.
My Stars grew cruel, just as you grew kind:
Me! frustrate Hopes convey to Demid Slain,
And Fortune Ihatchcs thee away to Spain.
But there is a secret Beauty which I remargin this Poem, that shows a great deal of a.rtdn the Writer; When her Brother had feikfor her, an only Brother which she had not seen so long, and it appear’d to fuit both with her Inclination and Interest to go to him, tho’ the Lover must be unwilling to part with her, yet it was not confident with his Part of Friendship too firongly, and too plainly io dijfmdeheiixom ihe Voyage', and for this Reason it is, he compares the Loss of her to the lofses of Merchants at Sea, that he might have an Opportunity of describing the Inconstancy of the Heavens, a Calm first, and a Storm immediately Succeeding, in order to instil into her Breast, with a great deal of hidden Art (where ' he does not seem to design it) a great many Fears and Dangers to deter her from attempting the ha 2ard of a Voyage. After this, when he is reduced to the Necessity of either diltuading her from ‘going contrary to her declared Inclinations, or elfe persuading her to go quite contrary to his own, he behaves himself very artsui in so nice a Crisis, dividing himself into the Lover and the Friend: As a Lover he has Tears in his Eyes,
which
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. I 5 5
which he makes his dumb Advocates for her Stay. As a Friend he consults her Inclinations, her Pleasures, andinterest; he not only plainly advises her to go, but hastens her, and offers himself to lead her to the Ship with his own Hand; at the same Time bemoaning his low Condition of Fortune, and forrowin^ that he was not in Circumstances to bear the Expense of travelling with her, and that therefore he must be left behind. This I count another beautiful Passage, every Line is wonderfully adapted to move pity and Compassion, and excite Love and Esteem.
Yet hear, my Clio, thy best Friend ad vile,
[Tho’ thy friend’s Counsel melts thy lover’s Eyes; 3 Since thou hast got an only Brother there.
Wife like his Sister, like his Sister fair.
Since he has foie Possession of thy Mind,
Which might possess the Hearts of all Mankirid, Might all, that can its lov’d Acquaintance boast.
Render its Slaves, but Strephon still the most;
Go — yes thou shalt— — Hand ftiall be my Foe, ' My Hand (hall lead thee, since thou’rt bent to go.
And if base Fortune were less harsh to me,
Pd the Companion of that Voyage be.
But as to Fortune in this earthly State,
My name’s writ backward in the Books of Fate Go — share the Pleasures of a brother’s Breast,
And leave a Lover void of Joy and Rest,
For me no matter • — Clio will - be blessed ^

I yo A Critical Essay on th
To some dark lonely Cave I can retire,
Weep away Life, and with a Groan expire.
Seventeenth LETTER, Page 8 o,
^ HOIN her Answer, replies to both bis last ^ at the same Time. In the one he had told her his Passion was increas’d, and in the other he advised her to go to Spain.. In this len ter we must consider (duio no more in her Angelical Capacity of Platonic Love, but as avir gin that had admitted the Courtship of a Man, and as a Woman that was So far overcome, as to own that the Courtship proceeded by her Leave, and that she well approved of the Courtier. When we have placed her in this new Light, we can’t much wonder that she rallies her Lover, upon his Saying this Moment, that his Passion was increas’d;, and at the next, advifinghertogoquite away from him into a foreign Country; but then she rallies So, as not to Seem to rally at the Same Time, and indeed accuses him with a great deal of courtly Decency. She would appear to commend him for his Advice, and flgnifies that she doth not take it as an Argument of his Passion being abatedbut yet, by her Way of concluding from thence,, with a Resolution of going, and signifying.. he farthers her Design, shows that what she said before, carries with it only an Air of Compliment, and that the jvoman appears at the Bottom of it all. She inwardly condemns
his
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 157
his Advice, whilst (he extremely commends it, and palpably takes it for an Affront to Love, whilst Ihe openly professes she does not. This she beautifully performs in the following Lines, with her ufml Art and address.
i’m lost in Thought — which I should most commend,
C
The Lover, the Philosopher, or Friend, V
They all delight so much, they all so high ascend.
Rarely those Titles do lb well agree,
The pleasing Wonder is all new to me, ^ ^
A thousand dift’rent Virtues shine in thee. ^
My Friendship you deserve fb many Ways’^
Thy tender Passion, and enchanting Lays, ^
Inspire my grateful Song, tq chant thy Praise. Preferring clio’s int’reft to thy own.
Is such a Compliment I have not known.
Thy kind Philolbphy I do approve,
Nor think thy Offer an Affront to Love, ^
For I by common Methods never move.
Yes, I will go — you further jtiy Design,
She proceeds then under the Covert of a Moral, and desiring his farther Counsel in the Conduct of Life, artfully to excite his jealousy, by signifying the Dangers she may have from the Gourtfliip of other Men in Spain, that may be less generous Lovers than himself, and notwithstanding what she formerly said to the Difparagc
ment
158 ^ Critical Essay on the
ment of her own Beauty, she here pats him in Mind, that Ihe has Some Charms, and a great deal of Youth. thewords seem to me exceeding pretty.
Stay but a while, i’m ready to attend j Thy gen’rous Arm, and faithful Counsel lend;
This little Bark, Oh! teach me how to guide.
Far from the Rocks of Levity or Pride;
For, Oh! I go, where I must think to find,
< Things of thy f«rm, without thy godlike Mind, Still lively Youth upon my Temples plays.
However, she is willing to explain that there is Some Love at the Bottom of his Expressions, and has so much Pity for him, that she endeavours to Sooth the Melancholy which he express ses at his Disappointment in lossng. her, and the Narrowness of his Fortune, which restrains him from bearing her company in her intended Voyage. This fly does by telling him that he has her for a Companion in Misfortunes, and that she too had met with her Share of Sorrow; and relates to him a moving melancholy Story of lossng her Father, who was bafeiy murder’d; and then addresses him upon the Subject of his own Grief, for which he has no such moving Cause as she has had; and advises him to bear the Parting from her with an equal Mind; and comforts him farther with this Reflection, that if his Name had no Place in the Books of Fortune,
Epistles o/clio Strephon.' 159
tune, it had a very bright one in the Books of Fame, and was configiied to Immortality: She tells him then in the finest Compliment that can be, how far she would have a Hand in spreading his Fame, especially in Spain., where she was going. This Part of her Letter, which is a lofty and sublime Panegyric, seems to me to be written in the Manner, and with that very Same Vigour and Spirit which was the 'pecxxwax charac terijlick of the immortal is/lv. Addison, when he employ’d his divine Pen in Panegyric, who (for I must just take this small (Occasion of offering some little Incense to the Manes of that great Poet) in my Opinion far excels Mr. Waller in that ivay; tho’ my Lord. Rochefier first, and Major afterwards, ixwow ivaller to have had a Talent above any Man in Subj jects of Panegyric and of Love; and if Mr. Addison has exceeded him in one, I may venture to say this, that Clio is at least Mr. fvallefs Equal in both Capacities; she has a Fancy as Jlrong, Sentiments as elevated, .mia Judgement
as correfi.
Let partial Fate be cruel to thy Name,
Since it is written in the Book of Same;
To whatsoever Nation i’m convey’d,
£ £
My Poet shall be still immortal made;
I will thy Merit and thy Lays rehearle.
And charm the witty Spaniard with thy Verlej
- Though
100 .d Critical E s SAY on tm
Tho’ skill’d in Love, they humbly shall submit To thy fuperiortendernels and Wit.
Spain shall not still her nobler Lovers boast.
Nor always triumph o’er our frozen Coast;
Far from the Sun, the Lord of fprightiy Fires, Britannia liesj but she has soft Desires;
The God of Love flies here with flower Wing,
But yet her martiassons can love and fing, ^
For here Bays, Laurels, and the Myrtles spring,
Thy Numbers are so tender and Ib bright, j They shall appear, and do thy Nation Right;
Here again fly returns (since she had before confefs’d a Liking to him) to show that Love and Conjiancy remain in her own Bosom, and wittily takes an Occasion (paltingly) to put him in Mind of his own Want of both, in not yet taking the Advantage of feeing her, which he might have done if he would. Then she warmly expostulates with him, whether he would at least remember those Letters of hers, in which she beautifully says she has sent him the Picture of her Soul painted with her Pen. Next she kindly takes his. Part against her own Expostulation, and concludes with promising herself a lasting Place hi his Remembrance, and him an everlasting Friendship for his own Reward. These are the Lines;
But while on fancy’s Wing I fly to Spain,
A mournful Thought recalls me back again j
Thou
*
r
Epistles of Clio and Strephoni 161
Shou wilt thy absent clio’s Eyes forget.
But I mijlake, thou hast not seen them^f/;
Soon all thy soft Ideas thou wilt lose,
That fire thy Soul, and animate thy Muse;
The Wheel of Fortune may its Humour show.
And, often turning round, may cast thee low;
Wilt thou remember absent Clio then, 'y
And know the Picture of her Soul again, q
Which she has sent thee painted with her Fens I hear thy sighing Heart affirm it will.
My Vain is lofi, and all my Fears are jliu.
Oh! what shall I return thy soft Regard,
Be everlasting Friendship thy Reward,
Such as thy Soul so ardently demands
Whose truest Value Strephon understands.
Eighteenth LETTER, Page 94.
V
T N Answer to the foregoing Letter strephon grounds his, which he calls his Complaint; he acts the Lover now, as he had done the Friend before, and as he then advised her to go, he now implores her to slay; he begins with even calling her cruel to think of going, and where she terms k his Counsel, he accuses her of laying artful Blames upon him: He diftiiiguishes between his Friendship and his Love with a great deal of Humour and Pleasantry, and tells her that she is a little sopbjier in Poetry

j6z a Critical E s say on the
try, not to make the same Distinction. This Raillery in Argument continues for about twenty Lines, wherein he accuses himself for having acted the Friend at all, calls it being wise out of season, and dully good, to permit his Judgement to counsel what was repugnant to his Will, and then Smartly argues her of being unfairly witty to take that Part against him, where he owns his Head had erred against the Dictates of his Heart. And this Part of the epistle
is written in a Style particularly familiar and suitable to the Subject. When he has endeavour’d, as much as he can, to rally her. out of her Design of following his Advice in going to Spain, he tries next what Gravity will do, and confiders her Departure as a Matter important to his own Repose: He afresh takes Recourse to his Entreaties and Prayers for her Stay, begs as a condemned Man would for a Reprieve, accuses her for entertaining a single Thought that he could part from her without Pain, expresses the Agonies of his Heart, on the doleful Occasion, and uses all the tender Words, he can, to reww Pity and Compassion within her Bosom.
Nineteenth LETTER, Page pya
S the Aim of strephon’s last Letter was to move Pity, we may judge how far Art and Nature join’d in stirring up that Passion,
by
9
Epistles of Clio and Sixeiphon*
by finding in this answer of Cuo, that her Heart was affected with it, she administers Comfort to him in the tend’rest Manner she can. And in the two first Lines (for I never heard that the Lady understood the Latin of Ovid, neither do I know that that Part of him was ever made engupf) file has shown her Genius to be perfectly ovidi ^ AN, for they are Word for Word the Same.
di/cite Jdmri, per quern didiciftis amare j
Una Manus volts vulnus cpemque feret.
Let Clio thy complaining Heart appease,
The Hand that wounded shall restore thy Eafe.1.
i •
She Says all the kind Things to him that are possible, to convince him that he has still her Esteem; and what is more, she revives him with the Knowledge that she herself is also convinced on her Part, that he has a Love and Fondness for her, and ’tis necessary she should continue it. Nay, furthermore, as if she herself desired it, she very wittingly prophecies that he will continue those his Affections to her. Thus far she Speaks in all the Tenderness of a kind mistress; but still the resenting Woman is to punish the erring. Suitor, a little longer, for committing such an Affront to Love, as letting his Friendship gain the better of his Passion, and advising her to go— — — unpallatable Advice sticks uppermost still, and she must punish him a little more before the
Crime is. attoned for. It is but reasonable for
her,,
^ Critical Essay on the
her, she thinks, to offer him Friendship instead of Love, in her Turn, since he had fet her the Example; for this End she instructs him what kind of a Friendship his must be to please her; that his Wishes must be temperate and coost and that he must prescribe Rules to his Fondness. She owns the Task to be difficult, but at thesametime requires his Obedience, and proposes herself for his Example, asserting that she is a Philosopher in Love; she then condemns herself of Vanity and Folly, for having felt so much as a single Pleasure in so fine a ^ntleman’s Courtship, even at those Years which she calls her defenceless Youth, but her Heart is now steel’d by Time, and grown a perfect Stoic; So that unhappy strephon, for one single Error, seems to have all his Courtship to begin anew. But when she has imposed upon him this Severe and cruel Task, there still appears So much remaining Kindness, as obligeth her to give him Encouragement enough to keep him from Despair in the Performance. She owns that Love and Friendship are the only Joys of this Life, and Youth the Time in which they best take root and flourish, and says she fancies she could resign them all; and talks very morally of Death, but prettily insinuates she has some doubt whether she perfectly knows her own Mind, in that Cafe, if she was put to the Trial; and to show him how vast a Portion of Esteem he enjoys in her Bosom, she Says, that if she was dy iiig, and encompassed by her dearest Friends, bathed in Tears, the last and only (51ory she should
then
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 16 5
then take, would be, that she was once loved, and had her Name sung by him. Affection and Constancy is here so well pictured, that it gives him more Room to hope, than anything she could say before gave him Cause to distrust. The Lines are these;
Lovers, and Friends, thole only Joys below,
If I thy clio’s Inclinations know, C
And flying Youth itself, she could forego. J
Half of my Sands are ebb’d, what do remain.
Fall when they will, are scarcely worth my Paint But when the solitary Last appears,
And clio’s few dear Friends are bath’d in Tears,
It will her last, and only Glory be.
That once her Name was lov’d, and sung by thee.
I can’t part with these Verses before S make one Remark or two more upon the stngular Beauty of them; I think it is the famous Monsteur Bruyer, who when he had a Mind to express the fondness that a celebrated young Beauty had for her own Charms, is applauded for finding out this lively Way of expressing it, viz. Thatthelafi
Thing a fine young Woman thinks of when pe dies, is the Loss of her Beauty. If he has rightly judged the Temper of a Woman, we may argue from hence the excess of Fondness in these verses, where a young beautiful Woman assures her Lover, that the last Thing she shall think of, or glory in, will not be her own Charms, but
his
t
i66 A Critical E s say on the
0 ^
\
his Wit, and the Love and Esteem he bore her. Some Critics who are of a more morole Temper than 1, who are more given to Search after Faults than commend Excellencies, (and when they do commend, they do it very Sparingly,) may blame me for dwelling So long upon this Passage; but I think I shall sufficiently answer them, by telling them that Tibullus and Ovid, who were the Masters of this kind of Epistolary and Elegiack Poetry, are of the Same Mind with niy Self; Tibullus was the first Author of two verses, the which clio’s resemble, in his first Elegy, the latter Part of which is address’d to his Delia.
Te fpebem, fuprema mihi xum venerit hord.
Te teneatn momns deficiente mmu.
Which I take the Liberty thus to tranflate,
Oh! may these Eyes, while thine divinely blazc> "y Fix on their Lustre, at my Dying gaze, >
And doling (hatch the Beauties of thy Face.
These Hands, when all their Force the Nerves resign, At the kft tremble, Ihril be gralping thine.
Ovid, in his ninth Elegy of the third Book on the Death of Tibullus, shows that he was perfectly affected with the Beauty of these Lines, 'above any other in tibullus’s Works, by quoting the Sense of them in his Praise, in the following Lines.
, Delia
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 1^7
Delia difcedens, Feiicius, inquit, amata Sum tibi: Vixijii dum, tuus ignis eram.
ci Nemesis, ^ttid, ait, tibi sint mea damna dolo&t Me tenuit moriens deficients manu.
Thus engup'd by Major Pack.
Delia departing from the wiournful Train, '
'cry’d, “Hapless Object of my present Pain! V
y I charm’d thee once, nor charm’d thee then in V
vainj
Vigour and Joy danc’d sparkling in thy Eyes.”
Stung with the Thought, proud Nemesis replies;
“Boast not the Sallies of his roving Youth.”
His last faint dying Grasp confirm’d his Truth,
Twentieth LETTER, Pageioo.
STREPHON’S answer in the foregoing Letter is fill’d with a Matter of frefii Complaint, arising from a Report which it seems he had heard from the Mouth of another Lady, that Clio was actually married, or very near it, at the Time (he gave him leave to love; the whole is written with a gallant kind of disorder, and shows the true Perplexity of his Soul when he •writ it. It Seems to have been pen’d down by Starts, just as Fears, ffealoufies. Rage, Hopes,
Doubts, Wipes, and Dejires, ruled most predominantly
/
J Critical E s say the
minantly in his Mind, and dictated by Turns: He hopes and dcspairs; he believes and is not willing to believe, the Story in one Breath, as I may Say, (that is in one Period.) I fancy I see him writing before me when I read the following Lines.
If what ive heard (O Clio) should be true, “ft
Me have the Fates strove rightly to undo, ^
And Wit was most severely plac’d in You.
i’ve heard (I wish I had not Ears to hear.
Or elfe more Patience, what i’ve heard, to bear'.) i’ve heard, by heav’ns! I have from strong Report
You wedded, when you gave me leave to court.
You did not, could not, ’tis adult’rate News,
Credit I did,, and I do still refuse;
Bright was the Dame that did those Tidings bear, And if Maids can be false, that are fb fair, A
There mayn’t ~ Yes! — may be Room for my De ^
& V
This last Line has an illimitable Beauty in the sudden Break, and the just reverting of the selfsame Thoughr.
After this, as if he takes it for granted, he expostulates with her upon her conceiv’d Falsehood, very warmly calls her the dear Blaster of his Youth; Says, that if he stiould live, he fears he should say somewhat harsti of a Name, tho’ still dear to him, (tho‘ confessing it would be a Madnefi foto do,) and conjures her therefore to
tell
Epistles of C Ko and Strephon. 16^
tell him the fatal Truth, that some other Person is happy in the Enjoyment of her; and lignifies, that the News coming from her own Mouth would be the best Expedient to keep him from complaining of the Cruelty he had met with, by striking him dead at once. All these Passions are hit off at such a Heat, that they are better felt than describ’d, as yourself may judge from his own Words..
If it be true, dear Blafter of my Youth,
Tho’ you must blush, yet own the stabbing Truth: For should I live, perhaps, another Day,
I somewhat harsh of thy dear Name might styj Strike dumb that Madness and, to lay me dead.
Tell me some happy Swain enjoys thy Bed:
Priding in Truth, i’ll my. last Hours employ.
Smile in the Pangs of Death, and wifti thee Joy.
The two last Lines are a Copy of the same beautiful Inssnuation of his Constancy in Death, as those Lines of hers were, which I remark’d upon at the Concluston of the tivemieth Letter ^ and he copies them with as much Justness and Eloquence from her, as Ovid did his, which are, in the same Place, .quoted from Tibullus.
£
■1 Twenty
\
I
0
[i A Critical E s say on the Twenty first L E TT E R, Page 105.
"D Y clio’s Prose Letter, which follows, it appears, that she made him do Penance fufe ciently for this Tranfgreffioii, in obliging him to write at least twenty Letters to excuse himself, for giving so easy a Credit to so false a Report. It would be a long Work to point out the Several artful Turns in this Letter of hers, wherein she figiis his Pardon; for Strokes of Wit and Humour abound in every Line, and I refer you to it, not doubting but you will find the same Plealiire in reading it as I did.
Twenty Second LETTER,
Page 107.
T N sxrephoffs Reply to this, I find nothing ■*- remarkable; but only, in order to connect the Sense of the Epistles together, I shall observe he took her displeafare, and some of his own private Misfortunes so much to Heart, that he fell lick upon it, desires some Verses from her as the best Comfort to a distemper’d Mind, and begs, in order to confirm his Recovery, he may have leave to see her.
Twenty
Epistles of Clio and Strephon. 171:
Twenty third LETTER,
Page 109.
HOIN her next is very indulgent; she tells ^ him, that she mourns for him herself, as is natural to Souls that are allied by the same Genius and Inclinations, and asks Pardon verypret^ tily, indeed, for what she calls her Ambition, of bearing such an Alliance of Mind to him; die even invites him to come to her, and make her a
Sharer of his Sorrows.
'- /
Twenty fourth LETTER,
Page Ilf.
CTREPHON, in his Reply to this Letter, ^ boasts of his being very much recover’d and reviv’d; but that his Genius still retains too great a Damp from his late Afflictions to be able to answer her in verse; and that before it can be brighten’d up again, he must derive a Inspiration from the Sight of her : He sends her however a Poem upon Buckingham house, * which he wrote
1 2 a
* This Toem on Buck Ingham ho use is note wferted in its Tlace.^ of which the now deceased Mr Porter? said in his f, marks 9n tl^ frfi Edition it ms great Fitj it rpqf hlif
'lyi Critical E s say on Ihe
a Year before; and I think it great Pity that such a Poem as that should have been lost, which she ^ thinks fit so warmly to commend in the Versts which she'has written thereon; they begin at Page iiy. and are all so admirable in themselves, that were J to give them their due Applause, I should be obliged to quote them here as one entire continued Beauty: I must beg leave therefore to be excused for contenting myself with singling out the ten last Verses only, which conclude the Poem, and which 1 take to be written exactly in the Addifonian Manner.
Phoebus the God of Music and of Thought,
Shall guard the Wonders he himself has wrought.
When his fierce Steeds drive to the last great Day,
And o’er the melting Clouds bound swift away.
When from their guilded Harness they shall fly,,
And bear to Earth the light’ning of the Sky :
Then common Verses, with each poet’s Name,
Expiring shall assist the mighty Flame.
Thine shall unwounded be convey’d above.
And teach the Angels how to fing and love,. I
Twenty
Epistles of Qiio and Strephon. 17 3;
Twenty fifth LETTER
Page 116*
A T last our Lovers are met, and they both give us indeed an elegant Account of their Interview. Some in this Place would expect Strephon, at least, to be a little more than ordinary luscious in his Expressions; but we find his wonted Modesty still prevails, but not sofar as to deprive him of a lover’s Warmth; he draws Beauties where they stiould be drawn, from all the natural Circumstances attending the Visst. The very Time of Year, the Climate she lives in, the Illness he is so lately recover’d from, his own private Misfortunes, are all madetheinstruments of her Praise; and as his Fancy took its first new Vigour from her Benevolence, he invokes her as a Muse, as she bears the Name of one in the Beginning of his Poem. And truly afterwards he stems to have received the Inspiration he had implor’d; he even rivals the very Excellency of his mistress, and writes beyond himself; he makes good his Words in a former Letter, where he prophestedthisof himself in the following Words,
‘‘ viz. I think what I shall want in Genius, will “be so much more than made up by the Subject,
13 “that
I
1^4 E's sa on the
** that I shall not (in that one Poem of the Infer “view) be afraid of being compared with Tibul
“LUS, CATULLUS, PROPERTIUS ausonlus, Or
“even the great Ovid himself, or of being thought “awriter inserior to the best of them.” 1 will not
i
insert any of it here, but I venture to make this Judgement upon the whole my self, that every single Line contains a new Beauty; and I don’t at all doubt, but I shall have the Satisfaction to hear my Judgement confirmed by that of the more Learned. If the Interview of Strephon justly destrves this Praise, Inced not attempt to make any farther Panegyric upon clio’s, than this; that as he has been superior to himself in his Composition, so she at least is equal to herself in iiers; and when fly is equal to herself, I know no Female Author deserves a superior Character, not excepting the Orinda and Astrea, she speaks of in it, who were an Honour to our Englip Nation, nor Madam Dacier who is an .Ornament to the French.
I have been long in my Criticism, but hope it will be excused upon this Consideration, that altho’ I give it the Title of a single Letter, yet it contains Remarks upon more than twenty. If in reading those you meet with the same Satisfaction and Pleasure as I did, I shall content my self with having barely recommended them to your Perusal, without desiring any further Applause of my Manner of doing it, than knowing that you excuse this, and approve those. If I
have
(
I
Epistles of Gilo and strephbni 17 5-
have not been so accurate in my Expressions, as a Criticism upon a Piece of Poetry might seem to require, L am Sure you have Humanity enough to let me plead my Familiarity with you, as a good Reason why I did not study them better, since a Man ought never to study what he has to say, but alwaysto write as he talks to his Friend. If the Criticism upon the Poesy happens to mark out more Beauties than may seem foto persons of a thorough poetical Taste, I can please my self with this Consideration, at least, that I have scarce singled out one Passage, wherein the Sentiments contained, carry not witlr chem a delicate Taste of Friendship, Love, or Morals, or wherein the Expressions have not a happy Turn of genteel Raillery, and are always delivered with courtly Manners.
I SHALL conclude therefore with Saying of them, the very Same Thing that the ingenious Major P Ac k.has Said of the Roman Elegiack Poets in his efitay.
“From the little Draught of their Characters, “one may judge how edifying any of their “Compositions must needs be to an elegant “Understanding., And indeed wshat Sincerity “ill Friendship, what Fondness in Love, what
Kindness to Relations, what Instances of all
the Social Virtues do we not meet with in “these Writings? not to mention a thousand “Ornaments of Wit, a wonderful svveetness y and easy Cadence in their Numbers, and so.
“true
i js 2 Gritical essayj
true a Picture of Life and Love, that will “recommend the Manners of this Age to Post“ “I am. Sir,
Tour most Devoted,
And Obliged Humble Servant,
John Porter;
/
A. ^
N. B. Siiiec ttc haff'iiot a Print of Clio to grace the Frontispiece of this Book, we have at the End given her Picture drawn by her own Hand, which is taken from Mr. Hammond. % Miscellany.
P 1 N I s.
0
*
Some BOOKS lately Brinted for
J. Hook.
f
a OEMS upon Several Occasions. By the Reverend Mr. Pomfretjviz* T The Choice IR Love triumphant over Reason III Cruelty and Lust lion the divine Attributes. V A Prospect of Oeatii* vx. On the Conflagration, and last judge mento. The flcventh Edition, Corrected. With some Account of his Life and w^ricings. To which are added his Remains, iimo Price 2 s.
The Art of English Poetry Gbntaining, L Rules for making verses. IT A Coliection of the most Natural, Agreeable, and Sublime Thoughts, allusions, Similes, Descriptions, and chara6bers of persons and Things, that are to be found in the best English Poets. III A Dictionary of Rhymes. By Edward Bysjhe Gent. The Seventh Edition, corrected and enlarged
2. vol i2mc. Price ys*.
The Hoop petticoat, an Horoi comical Poem. In Two Books. The thirdedition. By Mr Gay 8vo. Price i s
The History of the Conquest of Mexicoj by the Spaniardf* • With fine Cuts. Done into English trom the Original Spanish of Don Antonio de Solisy Secretary and Historiographer to his Catholic Majesty. By Thomas "townfend Efqs Price
J 1. I s.
N
Dr. Burnetts Theory of the Earth; Containing an Account oath Original of the Earth, and of all the general Changes it hath already undergone, or is to undergo, tili the Consummation of all Things. In Four Books. I. Concerning the Deluge. Conceniing Paradise. IIL Concerning the Burning of the world.
IV A
BOOKS Printed for J. Hook;
IV Concerning the New Heavens and New Earth. With a Review of the'theory, and of irs Proofs, especially in Reference to ^ Scripture. With Nineteen curious Cuts. The Sixth Edition. 2v0is. 8vo. Price iis.
A Complete treatise of Moral and Intellectual Virtues? Wherein their Nature is fully explaiisd, and their usefulnefs proved, inasmuch as they regulate all the Branches of Life, under the Sollowing Heads, viz !• Nature of Ethics. IT. Fortitude. III Temperance. IV Liberality. V Magnificence.
Magnanimity. VII Meekness. VIII The three conversa ble Virtues, viz Comity, Veracity, and Urbanity. IX Modesty. X Taciturnity: Or, the Government of Speech. XT. Justice. XII Intellectual Virtues, viz Art, Prudence, undersfanding, Science, and wisdom, By fohn
Fellow oi frmihyid^e* The Second Edicioh, Corrected,
8vo* Price y s.
The Life of General oi alheymarle: Containing, »
I. An Account of his unparallel’d Conduct, Surprising Actions, and providential Success, in accomplishing the” Restauration of Monarchy. II A particular Relation of that most memorable March from Coidjiream to London ^ the Preparations for it in Scotland and the happy consequences of it in England 3- Many Mistakes committed by our Historians, particularly the Eari of Clarendon, concerning the general’s Aaministracion, rectified. publish’d from rhe Original manuscript oi Thomas Skinner M. D. With a presace in Vindication of General monks Conduct. b7 William Webfier^ M. A. The Second Edition, corrected,
Price y s.
Thoughts on Religion, and other curious Subjects. Written originally in French by Monsieur Pascal Translated into engupy by Basil Kenneth D. D. lace Principal of Corpus Chrijii College., Oxon 8vo. Price 4 s. d.
The Lives of fohn Ticus^ Prince of Mirandola and of the celebrated Monsieur Pascal with a Parallel between those two Christian Worthies. By Mr. Jefup* The Life of ficus is collected from the Writings of several learned and faithsul Historians, more particularly from those of Sir ihqtnas i/hoxe Rnu
Lord
BOOKS Printed for J. Hook.
Lord High chancellor of England The Life of Monlieur Tafcal is taken from some original Papers, written by Madam Veriery his Sister, of which the learned M. Bail in his News from the Bspuhlick of Letters for the Month of Decembery 1^84. Page 531. among many other extraordinary Commendations, hath this very memorable Saying, An hundred Volumes of Sermons are not worth this single Life c. 8vo. Price 3 sa
Journey through the Aufirian Netherlands: Containing, The modem History and Description of all the Provinces, Towns, Castles, Palaces, cof that fruitful, populous Country, so long the Scene of Wars and dreadful Ravages till it was by the Treaty of yielded to the Emperor of Germany With
an Account of all the remarkable Battles and Sieges; taken from the most Anthenrirlr tstarracives. To which is prefix’d. An Introduction: Containing niitoiy ot the whole
Seventeen Provinces. By the Author of the Journey through England and Scotland 8vo« Price 4 s.
0
Origines hebr^ese: Or, The Antiquities of the Hebrew re public. Being an Explanation of every Branch of the levid cal Law, and of all the Ceremonies and Usages of the Hebrews both Civil and Sacred. By fhomas ler^is^ M. A. 4. Vols. va Price 20 s.
The History of the Parthian Empire, from the Foundation of the Monarchy by arfacesy to its final Overthrow by Artaxerxes the Terfian^ contained in a Succession of twenty-nine Kings. Compiled from the Greek and Latin Historians, and other Writers, and the Chronology fettled By Thomas Lewis MA. 8vo* itxce y
Sadducifmus Triumphatus: Or, A full and plain Evidence, concerning Witches and Apparitions. In Two Parts. The first treating of their Possibility, the Second of their Real Existence. By Joseph Glanvily Chaplain in Ordinary to King Charles II and F. R. S. The Fourth Edition, with Additions. The Advantages whereof the Reader may vindersland out of Dr. H. af(?re's Account, prefix’d hereunto. Also twoauthen tick, but wonderful Stories of certain Witches. Done
into English by Dr*horneck* With some Account of Mx glan* vir Lhe and Writings, 8vo# Price js.
BOOKS Trinted for J. Hook.
The Moral Characters of Theo; ^hraftus. tranflate(i from the Greeks with Notes. To which is prefix’d, a Critical Efiay oit characterishck Writings. By Henry Gaily, M. A. Lecturer of Su Pauls Cov^ gardetty and Rector of Wanden in Buckingham ^ Shire 8vo. irice 4 s.
The Works of Monsieur Tie suevre??iond» Made Englifj from Ae Original. With the Life of the Author. By Mr. j)es maizeauxy FR. S. To which are added, the Memoirs of rhe Duchess of Mazariity c. The Sedond Edition, Corrected and
Enlarged, 3 Vols. 8vo. Price 14 s.
»
The Eaght Volumes of Letters writ bv a Turkilh Snv. •whn liv’d five ariff t6urty~reat5 tnnracover’d aivaris: Giving an impartial Account to the Divtn at Cenftanrinoyle of the moult remarkable tranfairions of Europe, and difeovering several in n igues and Secrets of the Christian Courts, especially that of
.Fwwe, from the Year 1657. CO the Year 1682. Price 18 s.
The Characters of the several Noblemen and Gentlemen that have died in the Defence of their respective Princes, or the Liberties of their Countryc 'Together with the Characters of those who have fuffer’d for Treason and Rebellion for the last three hundred Years. With an Account of their Behaviour and Speeches at their respective Executions By Mr. Salmon, Svo. Price
5s.
The False Friend and Inconstant Mistress. An Instructive Novel. To which is added. love’s Diversion j clfplaying the Artifices of the Female Sex, in their Amours, Dress,
With Directions for the Education of both Sexes, and a Collection of Moral Letters, on curious Subjects. By John Lyly, M. A. one of the Refiners of rhe English Tongue in the Reign of Queen
8vo» Price 25.
...
%
• 1
%
* V
/
t
t
f
0
%
/
i
> '
f
t
% •
K 4 ^.
'0
1
# •
« f
Jt». •.
f
V
y
s. ^
<;.. r • •
: V‘ ■ '
y.
t
e
A ■ ♦ ’.,
I
«
I
•\
f
: i V ‘ V
. ' ' I
f ’
'VT ■
V
. I
.r. •-••'.•
-' .A' '
, '■ V..
!> A r ra
V ' ■;. '
I
,,; r n,
. '.f
/ ‘
'f i
d U... Si
y S c •,
Kj' - ' ' BS
^ i A
\
i •
I
4*
0
}
%
0 • •
» • ■» *
t
f t
/ ’
1
0
» • «
i
I
%
%
0
. *
0
/ •
« •
'I
t • I '
>
#
«
^ /
«
%
•. /
f N ^•
^
v
\
\ • ^
/

'I
»•%
• >
\
V #
V
'•
V.
*
f * ^
i
>
t,,
^ ■ .^■
»
I
i
