
THE
ROYAL ADVENTURERS;
OR, THE
CONFLICT OF LOVE.
if'
V
V
A NOVEL.
When virtue and modesty enlighten her charms, the lustre of a beautiful woman is brighter than the stars of heaven, and the influence of her power it is in vain to reflfl.
oficonomy OF Human Life,

LONDON;
Printed for G. Allen, No. 59. inpater noflcr row;
M DCC Lxxui.



. ¥
t..
/ ^

\
N


•t.




###}^

PREFACE
TO THE
R
E
A
D
E
V
1v,
f
s
\
^
stered with novels.
At a time when there is So great
a dearth of good writers, it is almost needless to Say anything in favour of the following work. The town lias long been pe The vitiated taste of youth, owing to the perusal of such produdlions, is an undeniable proof of the great necessity of exploding the publication of all similar
works, which 'most deierveeuy His— — to be consigned to eternal oblivion.

The adventurers of an imaginary being is generally the
theme of
these writings : An abandoned female, a profligate rake, or a reformed de
£
the principal events of whos life are treated of in books of this
sort
(
IV
\
)
ort are the general topic; these arc
daily offered to the perusal of the idle
and dissipated, and the minds of young
people are corrupted by that which \
ought to
be the Source of inffrudtioii
X
and entertainment. They either become
acquainted with Scenes of intrigue
and wickedness to which they were before
utter strangers, or, which is e
'’S
ct
bad, their minds are filled
quaily
with ideas of incidents as impropable
absurd. Thus the origi
o C
they
'renal

design of novels is entirely perverted
They were at first intended to
instrucst, at the same time that they
amuse the reader; but alas! the state
of virtue is become So degenerate, that
nothino: is favourably received but what
o
tec
ms with obscenity of language and
profligacy of sentiment. To this cause
also may be justly attributed the never
to be fusticiently lamented depravity of
manners. Young people of both Sexes,

who vrere once renowned for being
O
the brightest examples of the most exalted
virtue, are now become the Scorn
of
i
/

t
1
/
h’
k
(
)
of their acquaintance; and that goodness of heart which once feeined to be the Sole Spring of all their actions, is Seen / no more, and vice now rears her standard, where virtue lately displayed her banners. To stem this torrent of evil, and to restore virtue to its pristine lustre
is the most ardent wish of the
\
thor
au
of the following
streets. From
: northeast fubfec|uent stiort llcetch, the reader will be enabled to form a proper judgement of the whole work. The story is very interesting, the incidents are related in the most correct, clear and concise method imaginable; the language is pure and chaste; all expressions which might afford the lightest shadow of corruption are studiously avoided, and the utmost care has been taken to insert nothing but what will tend to instrudt and reform, as well as amuse the mind of the reader As this is the Scope which the au
has prescribed to himself, he doubts not in the least of with the approbation of all those who
shall
\
thor
meeting
(
VI
)
Shall take the pains of perusing this work, which if he is So happy as to meet with, he will ever entertain a grateful rememberance of the favour conferred on him, and will endeavour to testify his most sincere acknowledgement by dedicating his labours to the Service of those who honour them with their countenance. As he has neither the views of honours or interest to influence him, he flatters himself that he has gained the Summit of his desires, by having produced a work which, at the same time that it delights, conveys the most in strudlive lessons of virtue. He therefore takes the liberty of recommend
attention of the
ing his work to the
polite youth of both Sexes, and flatters himself that their approbation of his endeavours to please them will crown his attempts. It may perhaps be objected that he has introduced none but persons in the most exalted stations of life; but it must be remembered that VIRTUE alone Should
be
\
V

V
( vil)
be the distinguishing charadleristic of every class, and that without this or
all our actions lose their
/ nament
merit. If he is So happy as to afford any pleasure to his readers, he will esteem his labours overpaid, and will rejoice at having been the happy means of contributing Somewhat towards the reformation of the Britilh youth. This is his first attempt; he therefore flatters himself that he Shall meet with the approbation of those who do not blush at being thought good. It is needless to say any further of a work, which the author would wish Should recommend itself by its merit alone,
the
contrary to modern
general run
which
of our
productions, which usually make their way into the world by dint of the most flagrant impudence of those who endeavour, by a well written title-page to alure the wretched effects of their mistaken genius or the too credulous public.
THE

^ f
r ' ' k;
. 4 ^.
's
r 4
.• i
r \ \
- r
\
is
«
■ •* «
4 <

< r
i »



fc !•

P ^
V

I ^
N
C i ']
‘ -5



C ■ O N TENT S.
C H A P. I.
The birth of Thai men 0. — At the age of fifteen he resolves privately to leave his fathers
. ’ V ■
court. — Palrnos is informed of his inten tion., and determines to accompany Em.
f • V
Tfhey elope together — embaak on beard d
\,
vessel— — land safely on the African shore. Page i
CHAP. II
■ifter travelling through the Arabian deserts, they arrive at a cajile inhabited by Fiorina, daughter of a Numedian king where making themselves known., their necejfities are relieved., and furnifioed with means to
pursue their travels.
lo
a
CHAP.
C
• •
11
3
CHAP. III
hey arrive at the palace of folly~^a dwavf appears and prevails on them to quit the palaces which they have no sooner done, hut the whole building is wallowed up. 25
N

CHAP. IV
y the sound of mujic, they are drawn into t
%
forejl, where they find an aged father., seat
fi
nfi
at their requefi, why he lives that retired life. — At their departure he gives them the necessary infirufiions for their journey


C H A P. V
They arrive at the court of Zanfara — and enter into the kinfs service— — ' their names from thdxmtno to Thalmo, and from Palmos to Piivio — Thalmo is
appointed
r
• P o
Hi
]
appointed preceptor to the kings daughter and Piivio appointed governor of Ithica cafik. 4 7
CHAP. VI
[lalmo goes to the forefis and unetcpebedly meets with Athelia, — ’id determines to discover his passion, she lady treats him with great contempt, and departs abruptly. 50
CHAP. VII
Thalmo is enraged at athelia’s abrupt departure. He resolves to write to her.
Lhe princess determines to correspond with Thai mo, and acknowledges her love for him alone. 60
CHAP. viitf
/
Piivio resolves in the absence of the gover -- nor to visit the fair captives and to fet
her
a a

. %
E IV j
her at liberty.' r lhe pnnce difccvers his pajfion for her, which the lady, for the
present pays no regard to.
67

CHAP. IX
efufe
Medor.
sent fi
cfolv
gis
forced by a form into a port in Jfr where he takes up his rcfdence — Eefc
of Zanfi
In his
journey he finds a solitary habitation, where he takes up his rejidence, and dif

if elf lik
s7
CHAP. X
ik
Thai mo sues in vain to gain the afftffions ry Athelia. — He receives a challenge from Albion, a Zanfarian prince, and pro
tft

fct
of
r

C
]
of russians placed there on purpoje to destroy him. — But is timely relievedly
Plivio.
92
C H A P. XL
i *
k
Plivio acquaints Athelia of thalm'ov miffi fortune. — At this dreadful news the prin -- cess avows her love for him. — She sends to Thalmo hy Ms coujin — and afterwards
i
vi/its him at his apartments.
ICO

C H A P XII
her father
Sherefufes to comply. — He sends a guard to force hcr i and Jhe escapes to the sea ftde^ where jhe is ' protefied by an aged fijher man. — They are taken prisoners by a Lur kijh Xebeque. — Fiorina is detained and the rest jet at liberty. 108
a 3
CHAP
p VI 1
CHAP. XIII
Plivio Ifmg acquainteti with thalmov success with the princess Athelia, resolves t renew his fuit.’ — He goes to the court for that purpcfe^ and hearing that mersilva, with the queen attd her attendants were taking the diversion of hunting he determines to join the chase. — By some accident mersilva loses sight of the company and is overtaken by a young lord., named Bli

her
virtue, hut is unexpefledly defeated in his
V
brutal attempt by the arrival of Plivio,
from whom he meets his death.
116
CHAP. XIV
The princess mersilva recovers from the
fright, and, with Plivio, immediately
^ ■
join the company, to whom they relate their adventure, — The queen informs the king of
plivio’s
[
• •
vu
1
y'
plivio’s generous behaviour to the princess, Lhe king rewards him with a command
in the army.
fi
princess but meets with littu encouragement.

123
CHAP. XV
efs
Having ch‘
'd fujficient proofs of his conji>
iffeflion.^ she
her paffon
for him and meets with a suitable return.

130
CHAP. XVI
Plivio informs his coii/in Thai mo of his success with the princess mersilva. — thal mo mentions his desire to return home. Plivio consents to go with him. — They discover to the ladies their birth and parentage
with their real names; and their
intentions

r
vm ]
%
inimtions of leading the court of Zanfare\. Sthe ladies resolve to join their company They depart the neat night without mo ^ legation, 136
CHAP. XVII
Mejjengers are dispatched in search of the
ladies who are supposed to he taken away
hy Thalmeno and Palmos, hut without ^ \
effect— — through a for eft., they find a cottage, where they alight for refreshment,
and find it inhabited hy prince
/
Medor, mentioned in the former part of this book. — Thalmeno acquaints him of fiorina’s retirement, and offers to conduct him to her, which he readily accepts
of
142
%
CHAP XVIII
Medor condusls them to the seaside, where they meet with a ship, and sail immediately
for

[ IX 3
or Cicilta — In their voyage they fall in with a Lurkijh tieheque — and after an
ohjiinate
ent she surrenders to them
Prince Medor is fenton hoard to take the command of her., and, to his great
A
surprise, finds his lost Fiorina, a captive on hoard. 153
I
CHAP. XIX
Lhe happy meeting of dor and Fiorina. Lhe prince informs her he is hound for Cecilia, she consents to go with him "the princess prevails on Medor to fet the prize at liberty in return for the indulgence ftoewn to her, which he complies with
They return on hoard his own ftjip.

princely associates.
160
CHAP.
[
X
]
CHAP. XX
mod.
1
traordinary and interejiing circumjlances. of their travels — are interrupted by a violent
ft.
scene of
\nfujion, hut produfiive of the fevereji
trial of love and friendship.
170
CHAP. xxr.
N
Our adventurers after this scene of difirefs^ are favoured with the continuance of a fair wind and with a pleasant gale reached the Cicilian Shore to the mutual
joy of every party. — Druyno recognises his laji fon with paternal affefiiony and Thalmeno,. his royal father with, filial
duty.
184
€ H A P;
C XI ]
CHAP. XXII
i!he nuptials of Thalmeno and athelia' ' magnificently solemnised at the court of Meffinat in the presence of t^r royal companions., who are fumptuoifiy enter tained hy Druyno. At length they depart for their reffective kindoms, and are made mutually happy., by the marriage union, and an entire pojfeffion of the hearts
of their fuhjefls.
193
/
THE

t'

‘ O
THE
TEST OF FRIENDSHIP, crv.
CHAP. I
he birth of Thalmeno. — At the age of fifteen he resolves privately to leave his fathers rci/ir/. — Palmos is informed of his inteif iion^ and determines to accompany him, hey elope together — embark on board a
vessel
shore.
safely on the Afi
the issand of Cecilia, fituat
I

jr
ed in the centre of the medl terranean Sea, there reigned a monarch nameddruvno, endued with every virtue that could adorn the prince; he Swayed the regal Sceptre
B
• I
wit st
2
/
with the universal applauses of a grateful people; who, considering htm as the guardian of their liberties, and the Source of
»
the tranquillity which they enjoyed under
To his sscill in martial
his government.
.. 1
aitairs he had added a knowledge of every other Science, that at once elevates and a dorns the mind. — At this time peace blessed his happy ifie, and that he might contribute as much as possible to the happiness of his Subjects, he constantly resided a mong them.
But alas! his own felicity was incomplete! for though he married when only eighteen years of age, he had no issue to Succeed to his crown— — Gratiana, his consort, was Scarcely fourteen when she became the partner of the royal bed. Ilis head, with age was almost fdvefd der arfd the lily and the rose had faded on gratiana’s cheeks, where once they
W
triumphed blooming and unrivalled
The
3
ithe ROYAL ADVENTURER?. 3
j - '
The snake each year Sresh fldn resumes.
And eagles change their aged plumes j The faded rose each spring receives A fresh red tincture on her leaves:
But beauties, when they once decay Have never knowm a Second May.
♦
However, to the universal joyos the kingdom in general, and Druyno in particular, the queen’s pregnancy was announced, when all hopes of Such an event had been totally given up; at length, the long wished for blessing arrives; a prince is born
heard throughout the issand. — The temples resounded with hymns of gratitude to the god’s — their praises were chanted in every grove — and carolled through
every street. Foreigners, who happened to be there, viewed with pleasure and Surprise the magnificence with which they Solemnised this auspicious day, when the Subjects of So good a king Seemed emu
and nothing but acclamations are
B
lous
4
lous to excel each other in giving deirion*
»
strations of their joy. Without carrying our readers into the nursery, and informing them with what tenderness and assiduity parental fondness watched over his infantile years, we shall only observe that at a very early age, when others are amused with toys, Thalmeno, (for So was the young prince named) had acquired an uncommon degree of sskill in martial exer cises, which were his delight; and So great was his proficiency in this kind of study, that ere he attained the years of maturity, he gave the most flattering hopes of one day becoming an experienced and Successful general; and in every
respefl worthy of his royal extradlion.
As he grew up, his person bespoke his
dignity — his complexion was beautifully
fair — his demeanour courteous — and for
A
t
affability Surpaffed even Alexander him
felfj by nature formed to please, he took
every

\

5
For his genius and learn
every opportunity of improving prepo! seshons in his favour — from nature too he derived parts strong and lively, which education had polished and improved. From his tongue dropped the eloquent and enchanting phrases of his admired Demosthenes, ingle Soon acquired the reputation of the wife learned prince; for his manners, the character of the most amiable.
, Thus distinguished by nature and by art, who had each So largely contributed to form our young prince, no wonder if he was beloved— — Pallas heard of his' merit, she could not have withheld her approbation and praises of his perfe<5lions.
Juno, if she had Seen his person, would have forsaken her Jupiter; and the Sirens themselves, had they fixed their eyes upon his features, would have withdrawn their melody from timorous Ulysses, and tuned
B 3
their
6

their harmonious notes to hail only Thal meno their favourite.
The royal parents viewed their riling, hopes in the bloomy Spring of life with ecstasy of joy; nor did their piety want any incitement to their gratitude towards heaven for So Sweet a Son. — They daily rendered millions of thanks to the propitious deity who had thus blessed their de, dining years with the precious boon, while, the happy citizens thronged to the temple of the goddess Fortune, to offer up their daily thanks for So inestimable a blessing as the young and gallant heir of their fiou. rishing empire.
The herald had now proclaimed his fifr.eenth year — when, to improve his natural abilities and education — to experience what his princely Sortunes might be and what events they might produce, he determines to travel. — The inclination was not to be opposed by any arguments:
h is
 , 7 
his mind Suggested — the resolution was private. — As often as he attempted to re press his eager desires of visiting foreign nations, of Seeing the manners of people, and the customs of different countries, he found the talk too arduous to effefft; and when he had Sometimes thought the wiili half smothered by due ressedlion on the risque he should run, the dessre broke out, afresh, as it vere out of the embers where it had only lain concealed, not extin
0 ^
guished — at length it flamed, colledling greater force from its being Suppreffed for a time.
“Whatever the issue might be, ” V old
O ^
he Say to himself, is to h a lmeno un
“known — but whatever it might prove,
“whether fortunate or otherwise— —
“there I shall live to be the wiser for my
«
“observations, or die in the attempt of “becoming So, is to me a matter of little ‘‘ momenti The gods must have inlfit
CD
B 4
V
8

CI
ed me with the resolution, and I am “determined to obey the impulse.”
But this his private resolution, was not Solecrerly concealed, but that the news'soon reached the cars of his coussn Palmos, Son and heir of Blithgora, king of Egypt; who, being well pleased with the report, could reap no perfect rest, until
i
be had engaged himself a participator of
his cousin’s adventurous proceedings. He
therefore went in Search of Thalmeno,
and familiarly discovered to him the news he haci heard of his intentions, which the
young prince no Sooner understood, but he was overjoyed that he had found So princely a partner of his future fortunes : in consequence of this meeting, they resolved to depart immediately; and furnishing themselves with Such necessaries as were befitting for their voyage, they Secretly departed, diredling their course to Trapani; one of the principal ports of Cecilia; where
finding
  9
finding a ship ready to Sail, bound for Arabia, they instantly embarked, rejoicing
that Fortune had So luckily provided for them a Speedy passage, without making
thcking ottfie court in the least acquaint with their intentions. The young princes were shon mishng, and for their absence,
what Sorrowful mournings and melancho
^ *
ly aggravations were Seen in all places (especially in the palace royal) I leave to the delicate feelings of the susceptible reader.
P 5
C H A P.
TO
C H A P. II
After travelling through the Arabian deserts they arrive at a cajile inhabited by Fiorina, daughter of a Numedian king y where making themselves knowny their necejfities are relieved andfurnijhed with means to
pursue their travels.
\
FTER a short and pleasant voyage, our royal adventurers attained the shore, and boimtisully rewarding the crew, they betook themselves to their desperate adventures; where through the African desarts they So long had travelled, that at last, being destitute of Sood, and not finding wherewithal to Suffice nature (these parts not being inhabited) passionately tracing these unknown groves, they exclaim upon the inhuman disasters of their miserable fituatipn; but in vain; for they
Sound no food to replenish their hungry

II
appetites, unless to have Sed upon unknown
roots which were not agreeable to
their palates; yet hoping ere long to harbour themselves in Some homely cottage
where with rustic Sare they might appease their hunger: upon the foundation of this hope they continued their journey, and at last came to the'descent of a deep valley, where, with a faint courage, walking pensively through the thicket of an ancient forest, they espied the architecture of Some domestic mansion, which to their Sorrowful contemplations produced unexpected encouragement : resuming courage at this change of fortune, they directed their course to the outward gate, where they beheld an. ancient castle, but So Solitarily Situated in the centre of the forest, that the wind piercing through the branches of the
lofty cedars, made Such a mournful muil mur, that the dolefulnelf thereof drove
B 6
our
/
/
12
our young princes into a fit of effeminate despair; hunger So far constrained them, that they resolved to enter; and opening the outward gate, they passed the first court without the appearance of any living creature; on entering the Second, they beheld a Spacious court richly paved with curious marble, which was circum ferenced with a Sumptuous arched gallery, propped by pillars of shining alabaster; casting their eyes a Small distance, they
discovered a lady. Sweet and amiable, sitting under the shady leaves of a fig tree, recreating her senses with the Sweet Sound of a well timed lute, to which she joined her ravishing voice.
As Soon as she had ended, she began to call on her lost Medor, and in a fit of despair instantly fell to the ground, which the young princes perceiving, flew hastily to her assistance, and raising her from the
fiowery bank whereon she fell, used Such
preservative
  15
preservative means for her recovery, as their unskilful, though willing industry could afford; and in a short time, by good fortune, she again recovered. Seeing thcse two strangers besore her, she was greatly Surprised, and with anger Seated on her brow, uttered these words.

^‘gentlemen, for So your aspeds invite me to call you; if you knew how
divinely quiet I endured this deadly fium^
ber into which I was entered, I absolutely
know, or at least believe, that in equity you would have refrained from disturbing me, and permitted me to reap the benefit of my consolation; but Since things past, cannot be recalled, I will,, on condition you immediately depart, for this your first offence, not esteem you guilty. I have here wholly betaken myself to forrowfulness, and have long Since devoted my zeal to the shrine of disconsolation; my desire
14
fire is neither to See nor be Seen, but rather to lead the pilgrimage of my life
from the sight of any. This Solitary place
%
I have chosen for my habitation, and
i
here, unless death prevent my meditations, I resolve to wait the return of a dear
%
friend, which incoiistant fortune, for many months hath detained from me. In reality I hate the sight of any, and for his
sake loath the prospedl of all. There
#
I beseech you, at the request of an
unfortunate lady, immediately to depart,
that, according to my accustomed manner, I may Sincerely, upon the altar of his
absence, devoutly Sacrifice my affedlionate Sighs, in token, thatstill death, in the garden of my maiden amity, the resemblancc of his Self, and idea of his perfedlions, shall, to my everlasting comfort, immortally flourish.”
The princes with attentive ears listened to the effect of her Speech, and making
their
  i?
Thalmeno addressed hamself to her as Sollows :
“Madam, if our Sudden arrival, has
prejudiced your Sorrowful devotions, or detained you from performing those vows to him, who is happier than any of his fellow creatures, in being beloved by Such virtue as dwells in you, we are ready to acknowledge our defect in being So presumptuous, and express our Sorrow; but Since the purity of our pretence may plead
for the excuse of our rudeness, and the innocence of our resolutions, crave remission for our boldness, we doubt not but when you shall have heard our Sorrowful relation, you will afford us your gra tious pardon, and bury our offence in the grave of oblivion.’*
4.

Madam
our extradlion; we are nobly born, the
V
the one heir apparent to the crown of Egypt, the other to the diadem of Cicilia,
our
i I
■ i ■
SI


I.; ■
l6
our names Palmos and Thalmeno, who in the prime of our minorities resolved to travel; and having privately embarked ourselves, without leave of our royal parents, we lately arrived in the next bor dering harbour; since which time, as faithless and erroneous fortune guided us, we strayed into an unknown desart, where these three days we have dangeroufiy travelled without finding Sustenance to relieve our hunger at last, ranging this Solitary forest, we fortunately arrived at
Madam
IS
not to incur your indignation, but earnestly to implore your relief, that in paying the debt we owe to nature, we may avoid the tyranizing empire of death, which now
begins to reign over us; therefore, if your gentle pity will extend So. far, we shall for ever remain Servants both to your bounty and beauty; and till the period of death,
hold the term of our lives as again repurchased

elegant
  17
thased by your goodness, and depart when it shall please you to command us.*’
The lady pondering upon this deplorable Speech, Soon conceived in her breast a motion of relaxation, which Secretly insplred
her to entertain them with all agreeable curiosity;; taking them kindly by the
hand, condudfed them to an
diningroom, commanding her virgins to furnish the table with Such as her Solitary habitation could afford; the young adventurers very orderly, without any prolix ceremonies, fell hungrily to their meat. For this repast they returned their
thanks, which was no Sooner ended, than Thalmeno (burning with desire to know the effedlual cause of this lady’s desolate retirement) with a princely grace, continued his precedent discourse.
“Madam, if the repetition of your
misfortunes renew not your grief, or the display of your Sorrows increase not your
dis
A'
i8
disconsolations, I should esteem it a great happiness might I obtain So much Savour at your fair hands, as to inform us why
you make this desart your domestical mansion; and the occasion why, with numberless Sighs, you repeat the name of Medor. Indeed, Madam, So much beauty and divine perfedions should rather befit a monarch’s court than a rural habitation; and a prince’s bed than a pil
* ■*
cottage; but experience teaches us, that all are Subject to fate, and none
, I
exempted from adversity; for as Soon the prince as the peasant, the lady of honour as the poorest virgin, are, or may be crofff

ed with cupid’s darts, the sting of Sorrow,
#
or the tyranny of misfortune.”
The prince having ended his Speech,
the lady made him this answer:
“Sir, at your request, 1 will inform jiou
that I have long Since loved a young and
noble youth, his name I shall forbear
menthe
ROYAL ADVENTURERS. 19
mentioning, by reason the motive will renew the birth of my accustomed discon -- spiateness; however that you may not condemn me of perverse ingratitude, I will, if you please to attend my arrival, go to my closet, and their constrain my trembling pen to Set forth the Secrets of my Sorrows, and in effect, to discover the •sole history of my misfortunes.”
Thalmeno and Palmos rejoicing at this unexpedled favour, accepted of her kind offer, and having familiarly Saluted each other, she immediately departed to her closet, and in a short time returned to
the young princes, and delivered herself in this short Speech“
“strangers, to Satisfy your earnest demands, here, take this paper, wherein, though rudely, yet Sincerely, I have demonstrated the cause of my retire rnent, and petmed down the griefs that I
Sorrowfully endure. My present wealth is
Such
/
ao
Such, that I cannot afford you many gifts;
yet, as a testimony of my zealous affection
towards you, take this Small Sum of worthless
gold to Supply your necessities when
any future occasion shall present itself.
What incommodious entertainment you
have met withal in this castle, I pray forget
with favour, or what is wanting of re
Ipedl: in me, I beseech you remit with
partiality; in recompense whereof, I will
Sacrifice my devout prayers for the establishing
of your prosperity, and beseech
heaven to Send you a fortunate and Safe
return; in hope whereof, in all honour.
I take my Sorrowful leave.

Having received the paper, with tears
in their eyes, they kissed her mournful.
cheeks, and rendering her thanks for their
courteous entertainment, departed; di
resting their course to a neighbouring
irlountain, which having attained, they
cast themselves on a green bank, and on
opening
/
f
i
  21
opening the letter, found these lines contained in it,
“Know, princes, my name is flo rina, the only daughter of Aoenor, king of Numidia; attaining to the pcr fedl age, 1 was sought for in marriage by many princes, both of Africa and Europe; and, as the king my father affe6led
Some for their private wealth. So others I hated for their public enormities. But, Cupid storming at my liberty, and ve nus at my Single estate, acknowledging that there was no life but love, nor no paradise but the pleasures of marriage, they So bent their invedive ambition a gainst my innocence, that at last, by the means of Fortune, who had likewise intruded herself in the union of their Sympathy, they unexpededly Sent to my father’s court, a lovely young prince, named Medor, the Son and heir of Orlando,
r
king of Biafara; who, penetrated with
the
The
the flying report of my worthless persoit came to Numidia, to protest himself my
Upon whose beautiful aspeft I no sooner fixed my eyes, than I immediately felt the flames of fancy Sparkle within my tormented breast. On the other fide,
prince Medor, So often frequented our royal palace, that at last, if his protestations were unfeigned, he reposed his bless
f
in my beauty, and reaped his chiefest pleasure in enjoying my desired presence: in a short time, however, our affections were So firmly united, that I became the mistress of. his thoughts, and he master
of my imaginations.”
“But now despiteful destiny began to display part of his insidelity; our familiarity being noised throughout the court.
Soon reached the ears of the king, my father,
who, raging at this unexpedled e vent, resolved, to nip the blossoms of our tender astedtions; therefore, Sending for
the
IX

the young prince, he Hot only checked
him with thundering threats and invec*
%
dve Speeches, but commanded him to silence, and to depart his territories immediately.’*
“Notwithstanding the king, my father, had bereaved me of this my princely lover, within whose breast I reposed my happiness, he used me So cruelly, and laid Such a restraint on my liberty, that I could not one minute reap repose of my imaginations, but continually lived in a most tormenting calamity : therefore, accounting courtly joys vainglorious trifles, and a princely life a Splendent misery, in a night, which Seemed to allow of my resolutions, I departed the court, and betook myself to the establishing of this Sorrowful
life : at last. Fortune resolving to assist me
in my misery, happily made me retire hither; which Solitary place doth So correspond with my mournful fancy, that for
the
I
(I '
\.
H I
I I »
24
the ardent affection which I bear prince
Me
attend his expe^ed arrival, or else to finish
my days in manifestation of my fidelity.
Therefore, dear princes, attribute
my disobedience to my parents as the impulse
of love, bestowing on it a favour
able censure, and I resolve, that what
my will prescribeth, my capacity shall
perform; that is, immortally to remain
faithful to my lover, or everlastingly un
/
\
friendly to my Self.’*
CHAP.

  25
CHAP. III
I
'»•
hey arrive at the palace of folly~^d a ivaif appears, and prevails on them to quit the palaces which they have no sooner done, hut the whole building is swallowed up.
HEY had no Sooner perused the paper, but pitying the fate of the unhappy lady, they resolved to range the confines of Africa in Search of Medor, her lost lover; that, by their friendly diligence, florina might be delivered from her deplorable condition: by virtue of which heroic resolution, raising themselves from the verdant grass, with famiiar amity, prosecuted their journey in Such a manner, that after travelling: a few days, they espied a verdant tent on whese lofty turret a fnow whlte ensign fiourisned in the air •, they no Sooner approached this delightful objefl, but they perceived it to
C
be
26 The ROYAL
his shrill barking notes.
be an eglantine bower, decked with columbines and damask roses. Being desirous to Survey every part of it, they resq lutely entered, where a Snowy beagle, with Argus eyes, vigilantly Saluted them with
— A nymph being roused from her repose at this unexpected alarm, began to tear through the bowery
But Venus and Diana having metamorphosed their malice to a future Sympathy, So ordained it, that her amber locks should be entangled in the eglantine briers. — The princes taking hold of her loose
arments,
notwithstanding
her force.
compelled her to stay; but the nymph, thinking them to be Apollo and Jove, y/ho had descended from heaven to ravish her virginity on earth, bitterly cried out,
and tore the tresses of her hair: which our princes perceiving, with fair Speeches began to appease her aggravation, requests ing her only to conduds them to Some adjoining

.'I'he ROYAL adventtjrtiks. 27

Joining cottage, where, for that night,
\
they might assuredly rest in Some peaceful tranquillity. The nymph, fully Satis
\ :
raised hersclf from the earth, and very
'•X
freely conducted them through the woods and forests, where many troops of lightfooted Satyrs ran before, as triumphant
heralds to proclaim their passage; at last, she brought them to a Sumptuous palace, whose pyramids and towers loftily presumed to elevate their tops in the azure shies; the walls were of glittering alabas ter, the gates of pure christal, the pavement of black jer^ intermixed with azured marble, the battlements of refined goldj the windows of transparent diamonds, and the roof of vermilian coral wrought with orient guards of Silver; the interior lineaments owed nothing in correspondence to the outward edifice; for the portals and galleries were of white ivory, the bede
2
steads
9- ^ •*.
» t
28
steads of clarent amber, the coverlids and
<
curtains of green damask embossed with emeralds, and the the tapistry of crimson velvet embroidered with amethysts and
pearl. In the Spacious court and delicious bowers which Flora had adorned with the
I
treasures of her painted drapery, were likewise many" curious fountains; Some
I
conveyed thither by the instintsi: of nature,
4
and others erected by the ingenuity of art.
.
Upon the borders of these fountains were growing many fruitful trees, whereon were artificially ranged diverse harmonious birds. In short, there wanted no ornament to make this sumptuous palace a terrestrial paradise: it was impaled with lofty cedars, fenced drawbridges, and impregnable bulwarks; likewise circumferenced with many curious rivers. Our two princes, with their nymphs, being arrived to this
dignified palace, were forthwith met by
an
. J

  29
an, ancient matron, who. Seeming to be the lady thereof, very kindly gave them a welcome. Her habit was of a Sable hue,
I
having her Snowy hair hanging down her
#•
face; her beauty Seemed to be nipped by age; yet, in the lineaments of her complexion, lay furrovred the anatomy of an indifferent countenance; the arches of her
ft
Sorrowful eyes' were over veiled with a crimson dye, from out of whosc conduits it appeared many brinish tears had had th eir issue. After Some conversation with her unexpected guests, perceiving the zeal of their youthful resolutions were devoted to travel, she, with a faint
voice, effect:
delivered herseif to the following
“Courteous friends, for Such I hope you are, fear not to enter this palace, but
advance with freedom; for your eyes
shall be presented with Such delightful
C 3 Ob
30   objects as shall please your contempla
tions.
5>
H aving Spoken these few words, she abruptly broke off, and, as fast as she could, fled to the forests. The princes, feeing the Sudden departure of this ancient lady, were much astonisned; but, at last, assuming courage, and the Sable night beginning to over cast the element with ob jcurity, after taking leave of their nymphs, boldly entered •, passing the outward gate, they were met by two beautiful virgins, who. Saluting them with a Smiling countenance, arm in arm, most lovingly conducted them to a stately theatre, where they beheld many amorous ladies with their gallants. After a short stay, they were conducted to a very rich bedchamber, where Several frolicksorne Sparks were nnchastly courting their beauteous mistresses; and, in Such an indecent man
iter.
/
The ROYAL ADVENTURER?, p
jier, that Vesta, nay Venus herself, could Scarce have resrained from blushing, at their immoderate familiarity. Being glutted with .variety of unchaste prospedls, they were lighted to their chambers, where, to pass away the tediousness of the night, two lascivious ladies were profer ed to bear them company; but the young princes, notwithstanding this temptation, had their immoveable resolution fixed upon honour’s foundation, and not accepting of this unexpected civility, virtue
oussy craved their absence, which was immediately complied with; when, thinking to repose themselves, they were again Solicited by two blooming virgins, vsho, bringing their lutes in their hands, with melodious music thought to lull their premeditations asteep. Immodest Smiles they had at command; their garments were both gay and loose, and in all things, fitly corresponding with their inward qualities.
C 4
Burr
32
, B u T hv^irher their deceitsul melod}r, their venomipus glances, nor their alluring
lascivious gestures could charm the ge niusof the princes, or enchant their gene rosity to range beyond the bounds of,
modesty; but like two religious pilgrims,, they fought against vicious concupiscence, and ardently devoted their zeal, to the
\
shrine of virtue; not regarding their Smiles, they resolutely thrust them out of
their chamber, and after Securing the door, they betook themselves to rest.
I
But Morpheus had nor long detained their Spirits in delicious fiu'mber, but having contracted his influence with the in stindt of celestial deity, they were in the depth of their nodturnal steep alarmed by a hideous clamour, which rattled in the palace with Such a thundering noise, as if ths
whole foundation was subject to a Sudden
%
revolution; grievous groans were plenty,
cries were common, and all diverted to
« *
Such
  33
Such a tempestuous confuscd chaos, as if the atlas of the world, had, in the vivacity of his fury. Summoned the confines of the earth to the dreadful day of judgement. At this the young princes instantly left their beds, when behold, there appeared to them a deledtable dwarf,, dressed in crimson, vv^ho, with an angelical voice, dessred them to depart the place, and follow the paths of virtue.
At the Sight of this pretty pigmy, with
advised deliberation they pondered upon the etymology of his Speech, and could not, at first, refrain from being astonished. After ruminating more Serioussy on their Situation, they resolved to follow their tender guide; and, arming their courage with magnanimity, stew thro’ the courts, directing their steps to a lofty mountain, from when*^e they Saw this glorious palace
Suddenly Swallowed up in the earth’s concavity, and in Such a manner, that no
C 5

/-
34
appearance of the foundation remained; this accident they could not at first
t
believe, but instantly surmised that their eyes and imaginations had been deluded with invassons. The dwarf perceiving
from
» » ^ ^ ^ ^ OT » m m m w W » A ’W' A
their doubtful perplexities, ran away .......
them, and to comfort their passions, the
old forlorn lady which they first met, a gain presented herself to their view; and
after having lowly Saluted them, mournfully uttered the following words,
“My Sons, Says she, my name is Virtue, who, of my own authority, invented this tragedy for your advantage; the glorious
mansion which you have Seen destroyed, is the temple of folly, wherein only remained the imps of luxurious iniquity; who, pampering up lustful Cytherea, were always persecutors of chaste Diana, my Society they ever disdairied, and contu melioufiy Smothered my temples with the contagious incest of debauchery; amongst

  35
amongst which diabolical regiment, perjury was familiar. Swearing no sin, pride a feast, lust a lord, ambition a faint, and treachery a goddess; but now, my Sons, their immoderate pride is past, their unchaste desires extenuated, their Satanicai oaths drowned, their aspiring ambition
evaporated, their graceless treachery abolished, all their obscure actions, together with themselves, utterly destroyed, and fu rioussy Sent to the infernal pit of everlasting perdition; therefore, beware of their Subtle devices, and let the miror of their misfortunes. Serve as an instance to keep you within the circumference of piety, and
4
to the end, that being absent, you may still ponder and premediate upon my exhortations, take this paper, and observe Such divine counsel as I have therein prescribed.’’
Which having Said, she in the twinkling of an eye, elevated herself in the air
C 6
and
11
C
I
f.
/
36
-,
and a cloud overveiling her in his embraces, she immediately vanished.,
^ \
The young princes were greatly astonished at what they had Seen, and on opening the paper found the following rules contained in it:
1. Build the foundation of thy faithhip
/.
on purity and piety, that thy zeal be not cclipled with the contagion of idolatry, but rather perfumed with the Sweet incense
of Sincerity.
*
2. Let devout prayers be a mefiiatrix between heaven and thyself, for it is the most assured step to obtain felicity.
3. Conceal thy Secrets in the closet of
thy breast, lest rashly displaying them to others, thou produce the prejudice of thine own tranquillity.
4. Fly ambition, as the poison of the Sense, and detest envy as the canker of thy contemplations.


jaze
  37
5. Gaze not on beauty lest it ingendep repentance, but loath a lascivious courtesan as the Scourge of iniquity.
6. In thy actions be faithful lest being blemished with reproach thou impair, thy reputation.
7. Honour thy king as god’s anointed, and if occasion present, live and die for thy country.
8. Detest vainglory as the venom of sin, and abolish Superstition as the cloak of ungodliness
«•


s3 The ROYAL ADVENTURER,
CHAP. IV
By the sound of muftcy they are drawn into a forefty where they find an aged father y fated in a fragrant lower. — lie informs them at their requefty why he lives that retired
life. — At their departure he gives them the necejfary infiruliions for their journey.
f A VI N G perstsed the contents of the paper, and knowing the Sacred influence thereof Tended to the establishing of their celestial tranquillity, they imprinted it in their memories, that it might Serve for a fenced circumference, to retain them in the confines of piety; and triumphing that fortune had presented
them with So Sacred an instance, they joyfully departed.
But even Aurora the daughter of Thetis, had no Sooner shipped from the towers f Neptune, and Saluted the excellency
€>f
  39
of trahsplendent Phoebus, then the young princes again prepared theistselves for a new journey; and early in the purpled morn, ' when radian Titan began to give his welcome to the verdant mountains, the fawns and nymphs dancing through the forests, and doleful Philomena warbling forth her tragedy, they were by a Soft wind made acquainted with the pleasant Sound of a lute, the echo whereof redoubling through the thickness of a curled grove next adjoining, gave Such a graceful harmony to the aforesaid melody, that they were constrained to find out the Said unknown Orpheus, that he might for a while recreate their disordered senses, with the exquisiteness of his praise wor thy art.
Directing their course towards the
grove, they came to the prospedt of a
fair valley, in the midst of which ran most
leisurely a Silver stream, whose banks in
equal
; f
LI
; 1
40
in equal distance were beset with fruitful lemon trees: which delightful prospedt So pleased their youthful imaginations, that they immediately bent their course to the aforesaid arbour. — On their entrance, they Saw a beautiful little boy crowned with a laurel garland seated on a flowery bank close by the river fide. — While they were listening to his youthful melody, they Saw an aged father Seated in a fragrant bower, who,, by the furrows of his face, had in their tenders years endured many calamities — his habit was of black Sables— — viffage pale and wan — and his white beard descended almost to his middle — in stis hand he held a staff, which was the feeble Supporter of his withered age. anxious to know the cause of his dlsconso late retirement, they immediately went to the bower, and interrupting him from his earnest study, Palmos thus addressed himself to him.
Ve
Being
/
 . 41
VENERABI.E father, if our arrival has disturbed your study, or our presence, your patience, - we beseech you to pardon the first, though a rash attempt, and excuse
the latter, as being an unwilling enterprise. — Travellers are, you well, knowj lovers of novelties — therefore, aged Sir, we beg you to relate to us the occasion of this retirement, and the motive which in duced you to embrace this austere life.” The ancient father was well Satisfied with this apology for the fredom they had taken, and judging, by their appearance, that they were of noble e.xtradfion, very freely, but with a gravity which Seemed to embellish his Speech, made them this friendly reply:
“Your, arrival hath neither disturbed my study, nor your presence prejudiced my patience — for as my nature is not attradlive to Severity on the one Side, So, on the contrary, I make
use
i, 1;
4z
y
use of the other at leisure, therefore you are both welcome; and, as a friendly demand deserveth a familiar reply, know that this bower is my retiring place, when
pashonate fancies begin to Surround my distempered senses. — This boy I have in strudted in music, that when my eyes dazzle with much reading, he may, with
his melody, rouse my Spirits from the thoughts of Humber, and also put me in mind of the accustomed duty which 1 ove
to the Sorrowful shrine of my dead saint, which, whilst she lived, I affected more dearly than myself; and being dead, will honour with Such ardent fidelity, that future ages shall acknowledge, that till death, and after, to my fair ismena, I remained completely constant; in remembrance of whom, at the end of this grove, in a fragrant valley, I have, as duty and love prompted me, erected
a tomb, whereunto, till the period
of
/


43
of my days, I have vowed daily to offer her my throbbing sighs, as repentant witnesses of my calamity: therefore gentlemen, if you please to walk thither, your eyes will she made Ipeclators of that which I have with grief and aggravation discovered to you. — I will likewise give you Such instrudlions for your travels, that doubtless you will Sind them very profitable to you, and in your adventures no way prejudicial.”
The princes returned him thanks for
his civility — and walking through ranks
#
of lofty cedars, which, with their ver dent branches beautified the adjoining sslver strearri, they arrived to the Sacred chapel. — Having viewed the tomb, they returned to find out the ancient mourner, who purposely attending their coming, took them by the hand, and
with tears in his eyes continued his dis cqurse.
Gen'
'
; 1
t
j;
; • ' i
44
“Gentlemin, my griesis Such, that I loath my life — and were it not too of fenssve to my soul, I could willingly be instrumental to my own untimely death but alas! — I know that that would be
% ^
a Sacrifice to abominable in the sight of heaven, which is the only rein that withholds me from executing my resolutions.’* t — Here he was interrupted by thalme no, who addressed himself as follows :
Venerable Sir, the effects of amorous
-
4
\
contemplation, should now, I think, through
/
be purged from your memory, and the remembrance of past pleasures buried in oblivion — it is not for you, who are
ready to Salute the grave, to Sacrifice Sighs
:
to Cupid — therefore, Sir, consider with
■y
yourself, that that fair excellence whom you adore, is now no more, and cannot
by any mortal means be revived.
Delmon perceiving he was answered rather sharply, wept afresh— —
corn

  45
Sorting his Sorrowful muse with patience, with tears in his eyes, he requested them to enter his homely habitation, and to accept of Such fare as his poverty could afford them, to which they willingly complied. — The repast being over, and the princes ready to depart, with as much
1
freedom as his passion would permit, gave them these following instrudfions:
^ -- -- -
“Finding your resolutions are bent On
must inform you, that at the
t^otttnxt Irinnr ft <1 nt'l
travel, I
court of Bril ION king of Zanfara Some few leagues from hence, there are always resident men who esteem discretion a chief
I
point of valour, and no way backward in venturing their lives for the establishing of their fame; ‘their Senators also
are both grave, politic, and provident; therefore, gentlemen, if you direct your
course thither, you will generally Sec
each live by the fertility of his own land
each reap the fruit of his own vibe
and
II
t;
46 The ROYAL abventtjrlill
•4 * 1#^
• e
and content sit Smiling In. every, corner" There you may behold the fragrant fields adorned with their verdant vestures, the lofty trees with their gay garments
and the fruitful arbours with the treasure
• • •
of Flora — likewise their mountains co
4
.4 * ^
vered with snow-white flocks, their rhea dows with the riches of Ceres, and theif valleys with the choicest flowers, — rin their
• • ^ ' t
parks 5 you will find regiments of fallow deer, .and, on every bush, harmonious birds
warbling forth their melody.
Perceiving that Delmon had finished
T
his Speech, andstransported with the rei
_ ...
port, of So flourishing a kingdom, they gave him many thanks for their kind entertainment, praised him, for his virtuous
'%
exhortations, and humbly took their leavci
99
CHAP
he aoyal ADVENYMERS, .47
CHAP. V
of Zanfc fervlct
•and changing
enter into the kings their names from Tha and from Palmos te i appointed preceptor to the kings daughter
Thalmo is
of Ith
tajile
A
and taking up their
FT ER travelling through an unknown country, they at last arrived to the chiesest city of zansara where the court then was lodging at the best inn which the place afforded, they remained three days to refresh themselves of their dangerous travels and fatigues. — Recolleding they wero now in a kingdom far from their native home, and that it was necessary to settle their proceedings upon the main of Some
re
48 The ROYAL ADVENTURER!
resolution to avoid future misfortunes,
they determined to Set apart all delays,
and offer their Service to the king, justifying
themselves to be knights of Arabia;
and changing their names srorntn almeno
to Thaemo, and from Palmos to Pli
vio, they dispatched a letter to the king,
which was no Sooner received, but he
commanded the two foreign knights to be
brought to his presence, and after receiving

them in a manner Suitable to his
i
dignity, courteoussy accepted of their voluntary
Service.
During their stay at
this court, their gallant actions, courteous
behaviour, and princely wisdom, con
quered the affections, not only of the
f
king.
but of the nobility and gentry • likewise. — The king, as a token of his
esteem, appointed Thalmo preceptor to
the princess Athelia, his daughter, and
Pnvio governor of Ithica castle, where
theprincess Me RSI L A, daughter tosamor
king
he ROYAL ADVENTURERS. 49
king of Bohemia was confined prisoner. Leaving Plivio and Mersilva to For tune’s protedfion, we stiall for a while speak of Thalm© and the fair Ath^
I.IA.
D
C H A P.
\
50   *
■>
CHAP. VI
lalmo to the forejis and uneafeflediy meets with Athelia. — N? determines t6 discover his passion, Sfhe, lady treats
him with great contempt and departs
\
abruptly.
ARLY in the morn before the pearled dew was exhaled by the shining rays of golden Phcebus, when the fragrant flowers were displaying the pride of their beauty, and the melodious birds on the Swelling bushes, warbling forth their melody, it chanced that Th almo, captivated with the beauty of Athelia, betook himself to the fields, not only to refresh his tormented mind, but to make the flowery meadows acquainted with his amorous
fancies.
# *
Di
/
ROYAL ADVENTURERS. 51
.Diricting his coursc to the verdant forests, he came to a Spacious grove, whose branches expelling the darts of Titan
••
made a beautiful shade for retired passengers. — This retirement corresponding with his desires, he cast himself on a bank of
flowers; and, having vented his passions,
and made the forests echo with his malady, he resolved to return. — At his departure, fortune So ordained it, that the
princess Alhelia with her attendant la
\
were coming to the grove. — pleased with this unexpedled sight, and elevating his resolutions upon the wing of honour, he resolved to present her with the idea of his affedfion — and finding her sequestered
from her attendants (within a myrtle
/
bower) after the ceremonies due to her
royal birth, he thus addressed hiniself .to her.
D 2
Madam,
52
“Madam,
“When, by the aid of Fortune, I Saw So much beauty, I immediately felt my tender breast inspired with a lover’s pashon; and to Such a degree, that ever Since, I have firmly Sworn my fidelity to the Service of your Superior excellence
at the appearance of So many charms, my fenses' are So much captivated, that all I
am now capable of, is to admire you. — My birth is Such, that, if known to you, might plead much in my behalf — therefore, dear
madam, if my sighs might disclose, my tears explain, or my passions discover what a zealous flame my heart possesses in your favour, I think you would not only recompense my desert, but also repay my fidelity with your affection;; here I determine, till the period of my pilgrimage,

  53
mage, to remain as constant to the prin cess Athelia, as I wish she should be affable to the perplexed Thalmo.”
The princess, (being unacquainted with Such amorous encounters) sharply returned him this answer.
1
“Why Thalmo, Said she, hath my kindness made thee So arrogant, or my
undeserving favour so presumptuous, that thou shouldst difcourse to me of love hath my affability emboldened thee to aspire so high, as to declare thy affection to one So much thy Superior? Hath idleness in my Service, taught thee to adorn thy tongue with flattery? — And is
there no other objet for thee to aim at but me ?■ — As for thy birth, I disdain it
if thou
hast Sacrificed sighs, or shed tears for my
as nothing, and thyself as less :
P a
Sake
54
lake, why do you expect a recompense where there is no Satisfadlion to be made?
To be brief, refrain from prosecuting thy folly, or I will use fiich means that the king, my father, shall be made acquainted with your presumption, ”
This decissve answer might doubtlest have made a Soldier retire for fear — but Thalmo, disdaining to quit the Siege for the first repulse, earnestly continued his
discourse.
“I F you conjecture. Madam, that in discovering my affections, I flatter your merits with a show of derision, you greatly wrong my honour — therefore, dear Madam,
for my faithful affection, do not term me an ungrateful servant; if .ny aste<stions were predestiriated for yourself
alone, disdai;? aot him. Madam, which
in

,   55
in heart, hath long Since vowed to adore you, and to \yhom he dedicates his whole devotions, and reward not that pasfion

with Scorn, whose firmness you cannot doubt.”
“Th A L M O, replied the princess, if thy affection were equal to the tenor of
thy words, I
you should at my request,
bury the repetition thereof in'the grave of Silence, and not be guilty of
k
so great a presumption. — My resolution can never be diverted from reaping the
enjoyment of a single life; therefore,
Since my mind cannot be subject to Servile love, let my commands be a mediatrix to cause thee to bid a final adieu to thy
peevish enterprise.”
The princess was going to depart, but AL'MO continuing his discourse, she
C
D 4
Seated
I »
I '
, I
’■U ■
ii
■ *
V
hi


•, t
I i
j
I i
'.. i
I o
t
'1
1 : it •
56
Seated herself again : “Madam, Said he, if my words could decypher my passion, or my tongue express my affection, I should think myself most happy; though now I esteem myself of all men the most
I
unfortunate. — Unfortunate I may well Say,
that my fidelity should be obscured in the midst of incredulity; which if you would but Sincerely weigh in the balance of rea son, laffure myself, my constancy would remove the residence of your, mistrust, and
inform you, that my ardent flame, (which none but yoursclf can extinguish) Springs from true felicity. That harsh determination of living a recluse life, I beseech you to recall; for the poffeshng your presence, and the obtaining of your commands, would yield me. the Satisfadlion of my trembling desires— — merit, perhaps, may in time acquire more favour from your princely goodness, as I am resolved
to
I:
I '. •
t.
r

  57
to live and die in your Service, and to at tend on your person with Such fidelity,
affection, and Submissive loyalty, that your fair Self with your royal father, shall one day bless the hour of my arrival.
The princess well noting with what fervency he vented his passion, began to show Some motion of compassion; but
that he should not conceive any Spark of hope, where there was no performance
meant to be effected, made him this sharp reply :
V
•»
“Thalmo, your obstinate opinion will
constrain me hereafter to loath thy company, it is now high time to put a period to this conference, because the tediousness of it tyres my senses in understanding it. What I have Said I mean to perform, and
leave you to your passionate folly 5 as
D 5
your

ss The ROYAL adv^^tureit?.*
your request is to continue in my Service, I ehearfully comply, provided your desires aspire not to my prejudice.' — ’consider with yoursels what the king, my Sather, will Say, when he hears of your presumption.' — Therefore, Th almo, take my advice, think better of what you have Said, recall your follies, and be penitent for
your offence.” Perceiving that the prin eess had finished her cruel oration, he irn mediately Said to her;
“Is it possible, madam, that So much beauty and cruelty can dwell together? and is it possible, that each being the o ther’s enemy, they should both Seek my ruin: — consider, princess, the purity of my pretence, and the desire of my expectation! and think, that if Thalmo
*•
lives, he must love the fair Athelia :
\
Dear madam, distill into your heart the
gentle
  sg
gentle drops of pity, and amidst the showers' of your anger,, let the resplendent Sun of Savour evaporate your wrath! let the dew
.% *
of patience Soften your cruelty, that 1 may, at last, reap that happiness I have So long desired
/

S •
“Thalmo, ’* Said the princess, “I see that thou art a Servant to folly; and, it is' in vain to dissuade, where senseless absurdity doth comrr\and. — I am Sorry that I have remained with you So long, as thou art blinded with a frivolous humour, that fpringeth rather from a fond understanding, than from a tormented Spirit.”
The princess, to conceal her passion,
immediately departed; and directed her
/.
steps towards the court, where we shall leave her for a while with her royal parents.
D 6
CHAP.
6o The ROYAL ADVENTCTRERS.
CHAP. VII
V
Thalmo is enraged at athelia’s abrupt
k
departure. He resolves to write to her,
Lhe princess determines to correspond with Thalmo, and acknowledges her love for him alone.
Thalmo Seeing the princess depart So unexpectedly, changed his pleasant countenance to a pale complexion; continually crying out upon cruel destiny, and osten Sighing assis his heart would break; falling from Sighs to tears, and then froin tears to sighs again; then calling on Athelia, as if that name had ravished his senses with divine cogitations;
at length, he retired to his closet, and resolved to write to her; that he might in Some measure ease his tormented mind.
As
  6i
As Soon as he had finished his epistle, he hasted to a lady of the princess athe lia’s, and requested her to deliver it to the
princess, to which she readily consented 5 and finding her alone in her chamber,
with an humble reverence, effected her promise. The princess, at first, was unwilling
to receive it, not knowing from whence it came; however, she took the letter, which she had no Sooner opened
than she Saw the name of Thalmo, and commanding her woman to depart, she locked her chamber door, and read the contents: this brought to her remembrance the doleful Sighs, and passionate agonies, which, as messengers of faithful
constancy, he Sent to witness the miseries
*
he endured : she forgot not the proud re pulses, sharp answers, bitter threats, and obstinate denials that she gave his enterprise;; when considered, made her
burn
• \
§2 Tb rqy.a^l ADVENTURERS.
tiurn with anger. Indeed, she confessed (relinquishing obstinate coyness) her pas fion was then magnanimous for Thalmo> although modesty would not permit her to ver it 5 and that she adored him, as the Sacred image to whom she paid her devotions. “Thalmo, ” Said she “and none but him, shall live in my remem brance, and none but him alone can boast bf Such a conquest: though pride at first Seemed to reign in my breast, when I refused his precepts, I will now be as affable in accepting his affection j though then pertinacious in denying his requests, yet now as willing to agree toshis petitions; and though then refrastory in not being attentive to his desires, yet now as tradla ble to his demands; — but, whether athe xia, dost thou wander what lunatic folly doth poffess thy senses? or whither runs thy wits a wandering without their
guide.
The ROYAL

t
guide, discretion? Hath an amorous pas?
thy mind with
Sion So Soon fancies, or lovely toys So instantly obscured thy reason, with absurdity, that with jout regard to modesty, thou proclaimest ihy Simpliciryis she who was So long courted, now become an oratory Suitor ?'
and must she plead to him for love, who
p
petitioned her for affeistion r Athelia, is thy fate; and therefore €ontradi<st not that which the gods have already decreed; Satisfy thyself with what is contingent to thee, and hereafter Seek, by Some favourable means, to correspond with thy beloved Thalmo, to the end, that his presence may expel those mists of Sorrow, that now intoxicate thy senses.”
The queen, her mother, wondering at her long absence from the court, ordered Levina, her woman, to find her
out;
/
64
put; who, knowing where she left the princess, went direistly to her chamber, and acquainted her that the queen dcsired her presenee at the palace. — Athelia, perceiving the time had deceived her, and clearing up her countenance the best she
could, failed nor, according to her duty,
1
to hasten to the queen, where, contrary to her expectations, she received this Severe check.
Athelia, Said the queen, hath too much freedom made you forget yourself? or has Some extraordinary affair retained you so long from our presence? was you
with your tutoress, lady Florin a, or
%
from whence came you“
“it please your majesty, ” replied the princess, “1 have long since been invited to See the lady fulvia’s chamber,
and
  65
and this morning unexpectedly she came for me; your majesty being in your closet, I was unwilling to disturb you; therefore I departed without taking my leave; my
lady Florina was then at her devotions,
✓
and only Iffida, my maid, attended
me.

With this reply the queen was Satisfied;
and leaving Athelia in her presence,
*
we will return to the perplexed Th a lmo.
Having received no answer to the letter he Sent by Levina, Such rage poffef sed his senses, and Such anger overpowered his reason, that he was quite bereaved of his understanding; all company he abandoned, and detested the light; his laughter was metamorphosed to tears, and nothing could enter his imagination, but the image of Athelia; his chamber Seemed tiresome, and his bed uneasy; his
tori

e
torments might be compared to the tortures of Ixion, only with this exception, that he had a fairer deity in Athelia, than Ixion had in proserpina; when he
»
waked the image of Athelia stood before
him, whose beauty he adored, as the only comfort of his heart’s content. When in his study, pensively passionate, he would Suddenly arise, and ash, who was there? as if the princess had been knocking a, t the door: at other times he would direct' ' course towards the fields, and thereto the sei)seieis trees, decypher forth the inanner of her cruelty; and from the fields to his melancholy habitation, wherf we will leave him to the fancy of his affections, and return to the almost forgotten Plivio^
C H A F.

CHAP. VIII
Plivio resolves in the ahfence of the governor to vijit the fair capive, and to fet
her at liberty.
disc
^affion for her which the lady for the
m
present pays no regard to
LIVIO having been appointed by the king deputy governor of Ithica castle, where Mersilva was kept prisoner, could not brook the treatment which that prineess received fromporus, the governor. The king allowed her a decent chamber, pleasant walks, a table answerable to her pet; Son, and a woman to attend her; on the contrary, Porus a bridged her of these privileges, and placed her in an obsure dungeon, where the
ihoughts; of So detestable a place might
have
\
SS
have hurried the greatest hero into a labyrinth
of despair. Instead of pleasant walks.
she had only the liberty of her close prb
]J
Son; her diet was homely, and Scarce enough
to assist nature; and instead of an
attendant woman, was Served by an ungly,
russian, within the furrows of whose angry
brow, envious wrath sat triumphant;
havin from his governor, a stricst order
to hinder all those that, in compassion to j
her distress, should attempt to give her

relief.
Mersilva, perceiving her hard usage, exclaimed on Fortune, lamentins: that
ever she had attained So dismal an aspedt.
Weep she might, for there were no
ipeftators of her lamentation; and well
might she lament, and cast forth sighs,
for there was none to comfort her in the
depth of her miseries. — If at any time she
bethe
ROYAL advehtureiljs.
A
bemoaned herself; to her rigorous keeper,
with forcible arguments to induce him to
» :
't ^
pity, she was immediately checked with
a catalogue of reproaches j
t
that her entertainment exceeded her me
*. « « '■ * • '
tits; which, as a Second wound, transhorted
V
her reason So far, that with wringing hands
and throbbing sighs, she to herself made the following lamentation.
“Mj R SI lva, thou hast just occasion to acknowledge how inconsistent fortune hathsheen to thee; thy delights are changed to melancholy contemplations, thy pleasantness reversed to mourning, and all thy former pleasures metamorphosed to Solitude. Certain it is, that glory fades as well as flourishes, beauty dies as well as insults, and honour withers as the flowers of the field, which no Sooner Spring
forth with Titan, but die with Cynthia.
What
t •
: • \ i';
?; ]
S The ROYAL
: it
L * ' * *
What then is the world but a labyrititlt
?
What then is digriitw
but the leat of atnbitidn? And What is
•!
\:
glory but the throne of grandeur? There

i.
recompense
> '
predestinated for thy fortune 5 thy tor
ttlents, as a reward for thy sin; and lastly
think thy calamities as a meritorious af
fiidion projected for thy ill cohdiiistd^
Sh e uttered
Words ’ with Such a
Jealous fervency, that the report thi^reof
would have caused disdain herself to have
pitied her. The Sound of her complaints
reached the ears of Plivio, and knowing
her to be a princess royally descended,
and, committed without being guilty oi
any crime against the crown or kingdom
of Zanfara, quite overcome with com
pashon, he cried out, “Can humanitysuffer
m.

endure
f'
: V
The ROYAL ADVENTURER: !*
endiire imprisonment, and I enjoy my liberty? Or can the dignity of that divine Sex, obtain no more favour at thy handy, '
r
where thou canst afford relief? Are thy fenses So clouded With obsciirity, thy eyes
fb darkened with impiety, or thy heart So loaded with cruelty, that her tears cannot
Solicit to thee for her freedom; or her complaints, as advocates for innocencyi plead to thee for her Speedy enlargement.
How will the world blame you for Such ingratitude, thy conscience accuse thee of
rigour, and thy thoughts condemn thee of tyranny, when the fast shall appear at the judgement seat of reason, where thy
V
faults are descried, and thy folly disclosed
f
?
What
excuse? Or what mark of sensibility canst thou produce to overveil thy inhumanity? Only Seriousty consider with thyself from whence thou art extracted > if from
* the
7a
the loins of a woman, how comes it so
pass that thou art So cruel in thy nature.
Plivio, recall thy senses to the throne
of pity i therefore resolve to relieve the
I
distressed, and remember that it is worthy
commendation. What, though the go
vernor be cruel, must thou follow his example
? Let not thy cruelty obscure thy
liberality, nor pervese impiety overwhelm
thy affability; but rather let thy actions
favour of friendship, and thy resolutions
be gratified with generosity;; So doing
the gods will esteem it an ad of justice,
and all mankind a glorious compassion
to So much virtue.

Upon the ground of these resolutions,
he resolved at all events to visit the prin
cess; whereupon he hasted to her dun
geon, and had no Sooner entered, but he
beheld her Sitting on her bed of misery.
At
I
1
r
  73
fit the sight of Plivio she raised herself from her Seat of Sorrow, and throwing aside her Scarf, he discovered a perfect copy of transcendent beauty, whose radiant eyc$ displayed their Splendant influence, like fixed stars divinely Seated in the celestial
elements: approaching nearer to her with an humble reverence, he addressed himsdf to her in these words.

i
“Madam,
“I am come to crave pardon for my neglect of duty, in deferring So long that consolation I might have administered to you, during your long and unmerited confinement in this dismal dungeon; but, fair princess, impute it not wholly to my want of compashon, for the governor’s commands was the main obstacle that kept me from prosccuting my
E
mi

74 The ROYAL ADVENTURER's.
intentions; these objedlions being'nowremoved by, his departure to the court, fortune has given me this opportunity of waiting on you, and of offering to you all the
•. •» -
civilities which this castle, or my interest can afford; therefore, Madam, if you chuse to recreate yourself in the garden walks adjoining, I will with pleasure'*at tcnd you, and Secure your person from harm and violence.”
The princess Mersilva wondering at this unexpedled kindness, dying her chrys tal cheeks with a vermilion blush, court oussy returned him this short but grateful
answer.
“Sir,

My vanquished hope, which hath been transported to the very brink of
der

  75
bespair, being now by your unexpected goodness inspired with consolation, doth
for this your kind relief, render you many thanks; and Since you are pleased to ford me Such happiness, 1 should be very ungratesul to you, and much wanting to myself, did not I accept of So great a freedom as to enjoy the air of the fragrant fields.*’

Plivio, rejoiced at her condescensiori, and perceiving her inclination to go, took her by the hand, and conduced her through the castlcj and from thence to the gardens. where they ranged from bank to bank; and from fountain to fountain; whosc walls of shining marble, gave Such grace to mersilva’s eyes, that her Spirits, at So pleasant a prospect,, the long looked for motion of delightful contentment. On the tops of these fountains
E 2
stood
; I
76
stood twosemalc images, curioussy painted representing Minerva and Diana, each holding in their hands a little yane, and Supporing the third grace crowned with an Olympian garland.
Whilst Mersilva, was viewing these delightsul gardens, Plivio ordered a banquet to be prepared, to which he invited the princess and Spared no pains to make the entertainment agreeable to his royal captive. In this manner Sora while, they deluded the time; and Plivio never failed to cast his eyes on the object of
r
his wishes, which Cupid observing, immediately bent his bow, and let fly an arrow headed with desire and feathered wit affection, which had Such an effcdt on him, that he fainted at the stroke. So that he acknowledged no goddess but cythe rea, no faint but Venus, nor no lord but love;
after
  77
after conducing Mersilva to the castle, he hasted to his own apartment, and pass', ed the rest of the day in amorous contemplations.

?
What, Plivio! (Said he) art thou at last vanquished in the field of beauty! or hath Cupid Such influence at the first approach to penetrate thy breast with affection? Can thy resolutions which were devoted to Bellona now stoop to Venu and though to thy prejudice devote thyself a Sacrifice to love’s altar? Beware Plivio! the Sirens have Sweet voices, yet are deceitful, the Panthers fair Skins, yet infedtious, and the Amazons beautiful faces, yet are mere diffemblers. though Helen was fair, she was petulant; Thais was lovely, but lewd; and semira mis, though curious, was a courtesan :
but alas I one example makes not a
E 3
maxim.
^ r

i

\
\
78
maxim, nor doth sore past crimes include general actions: for Speak without parti tiality, and thy conscience will tell thee,
that as there hath been a wanton Helen, So there was a wise Calliope; a lewd Thais, So a chaste Lucretia; a vicious Semiramis, yet a virtuous susanna; therefore, retire not with pusillanimity, but advance
with fortitude, for, as the poet Says,
%
A faint heart never pluck’d fruit from the tree
of love.
gonsider with thyself whatmersilva is, by descent a princess, of qualities a queen, of beauty an angel, and of perfection th phoenix of her Sex. Who then but could esteem Such a virgin? Who then but could
love Such a matchless paragon? Nay, who b’j't would Sacrifice his life in behalf of
p
such a Saint
After

/
  79
A FTER these amorous contemplations, he remained So restless that no obje<st could please him but the idea of the fair mer silva; no thought could content him unless sprung from her virtue; nor no
imagination delight him, unless derived
from her perfections; and burning with desire to display his pashon, at length, with a trembling resolution, he wrote the following letter; which, by a trusty mef senger, he Sent to the fair Mersilva.,
Madam,
The passion which I have discovered in my breast is So great, that none but your gracious Self is able to a having fixed my eyes on your beauty, I am bent to direct my devotions on the al
0
tar of your flourishing charms; Since I pepofe the first fruits of my inclinations on
E 4
the
I
8o
the idea of your divine perseflions, I hope a favourable answer will be the reward of my constant fidelity,
PLIVION
i!
I 5
Mersilva received the letter, and gueshng from whence it came, opened it with a blushing countenance; which having read, she fetched a deep sigh, and found her senses Surrounded with many agreeable notions of plivio’s perfedions; every line Seemed to make a Smooth path for cupid’s entrance; however, after a little refiedion, (considering the favours
s
he had before shown her) she resolved to Send him an an answer,
I.

S I R,
“I received yours without much difficulty, thinking only to hear of your wel
fare


’ml
}
  8i
fare; and contrary to my expedfation, find it full of amorous fancy; considering the former favours received from you, I thought it agreeable to return an answer;; purport whereof is to request, that you bid a Solemn adieu to your en terprize, for the thought of affection cannot harbour in my breast; therefore, forbear to trouble me any more on the sub jed; and cease your Solicitations to her, who intends not to be won by any : — mot omitting thanks for your kind indulgence, I remain your friend,
MER SILVA.”
Having finished her letter, she was doubtful whether she should send it, lest it might redound to the prejudice of her fame; however. Sounding the depth of her affe(5lion, by the mutability of her fancies,
E 5
and
1 .s
f (
■ t
I
I
M
. 1 I. t ■
82
and the Soundation of her love by the allurement of her liking,
she resolved to
pursue her purpose; in consequence of which resolution, she delivered it to a
messenger, that it might be conveyed to Plivio; who, ussng his utmost diligence, Soon arrived at the castle, where he then resided, and being conducted to his pre
I
fence, delivered him the answer to his letter.
The prince, not knowing from whence it came, broke the Seal, and directing his eyes to the bottom, found the name of Mersilva : whether his thoughts were
O
then obscured by divine inspiration, or his breast replenished with ravishing contemplation, I refer to those who have been in the like Situation. However, he read the letter, and not finding it agreeable to his inclinations, he stormed and raged as if his
brains

  83 brains had been besotted with a lunatic
k
frenzy. The messenger was all the while a spe<stator of his pashons, and thinking it proceeded fro(ti the letter, went immediately to the princess, and informed her of the melancholy humour of his perplexed calamity
The princess no Sooner heard the
condition of her lover,, but she expressed
«
great uneasmess; being angry with herself that she had occasioned So much aggravation r she therefore Separated herself from all company, and betook her to her doset; where she was no Sooner entered,
4
but Athelia came to visit and pass the night with her. Mersilva Smothered her Sorrows as well as she could, and puts

ting on achearful countenance, entertained her with great familiarity and friendly
E 6
con
84
conserence. Supper being ended, they betook themselves to their bed; where
both, but especially Mersilva, slept
1
with a watchsul countenance. But Aurora, thejoysul messenger of Phcebus, had no Sooner conquered the vestal night, and given the Sable clouds an overthrow, than Mersilva arose, leaving Athleia in bed; — dircdling her course towards the fields, she came to a loftymountain, and finding that the Spring presented her with a delicious umbrage, she laid her down on
the verdant grass: casting her eyes round,
%
she sawplivio making towards the bank whereon she Sat, and immediately prepared to receive him : being arrived at the happy Spot, though affection had a long
time Silenced his tongue, with a trembling voice he thus addressed himself to
her;
“Madam,
A
i
  8t
'1

Mad m,
“My eyes no Sooner refleisted on your divine beauty, but my heart was made your captive; and those troublesome lines which you received, were but messengers of my mind, and an earnest of my entire
affections: I am now come to present you
#
with the original, and to inform you, madam, that my passion is of Such extent, as none but that beauty which created it
can give it limits: therefore, I beseech
you, decline not my affection, but let me enjoy your favours, that I may bid despair farewell.’*
Mersilva replied, “It is proper time to put an end to this conversation, since the theme whereon you delcant proceeds
from

/
from Solly; for if you imagine that my thoughts will condescend to love’s embraces, you deceive your hopes with a ' vain absurdity: what I outwardly Speak, i
proclaims my Secret intentions; therefore bury your Speeches in the grave qf Silence, and presume not to present her with your love, that can make you no return
Ptivio, greatlyperplexed, was framing an answer but Mersilya perceiving by his countenance the purport of it. Suddenly departed: therefore, leaving him to his perplexities, and the lady to her passions, we shall for a while Silence their proceedings,
and retun
to prince M e d or.

\
CHAP.
  s7
CHAP. IX
he king refuses to match his daughter t
/
— Fiorina is sent from court, Medor refohes to travel. — In his f>ajfcigs‘ is forced by a form into a port in Africa; where he takes up his rejidence — Resolves
to visit the court of Zanfara. — In his journey he finds a solitary hahitationt where he takes up his residence and dif auifes himself like an hermit.
DOR, as you have before heard, having acquired the love of the princess Florin a, and grounded his as sedlions in her memory, was frustrated in
the consummation of his bliss by Agenor,
her father, who posstively denied to march his daughter with him, on account of an ancient antipathy between the
prince’s
88
prince’s father and himself. Perceiving he could not obtain his desire, nor So
much as confer with the princess, as her
* “
father had commanded her to retire into the country, he resolved to travel, hoping that the influence of time would erase out the kings indignation, and therefore determined to take a voyage to the ifle of Madagascar, to pay his duty, and offer his Service, to his uncle, the duke of alphon so: before he departed, lest Florin a might think him guilty of ingratitude, he
Sent her the following letter:
M
Madam,
“Destiny having resolved to metamorphose our pleasures intopenfiveness, hath doubtless instigated your royal father to exercise his inveflive malice against our innpcency; therefore, I am forced to depart,

  s9
me
/
Cendant pledge of my affection; live I cannot but in torment, being deprived
of the sight of you. — But, Madam, in what desolate place Soever I find a residence, my contemplations shall dwell upon the idea of your beauty, and my
mind ruminate upon your divine perfections; therefore, be not dismayed, for the gods who have made this decree, may in time revoke their Sentence. Committing you to the power of the divine protection, I remain your constant Servant
MEDOR.
This letter he delivered to an intimate friend to convey to the princess, and without waiting for an answer, finding a ship ready, he embarked for Madagascar. In the passage they were overtaken
by
90

by a storm, which continued a long time, and at last Sorced them into a port in asri ca; where gaining the shore, and finding
himself much disordered from the Satigues he had undergone, he resolved to make
his abode there. After a long stay in these parts, he determined to visitthe court
of Zanfara; and in his journey thither. Some few leagues from the court, he strayed into a forest, and found therein a
Solitary cottage, whose Situation corresponding with his disturbed pashons, he.
resolved to take up his habitation there; the better to cloud his Secrets from the
sight of the neighbouring fpedfators, he difguised himself in the habit of an hermit; where, forgetting his former dignity, and Solacing himself with the remembrance of his long lost Florin a, he lived as a man who had forsaken all
the alluring jollities of, this inconstant
world.


  91
world, and devoted his Soul to the only enjoyment of celestial Selicities. — Therefore, leaving him toshe relieved by patience, we will return to Thalmo and the fairaxhelia,
CHAP.
$2
CHAP. X
imo sues in vain to gain the afefuons of Athelia. — N? receives a challenge from Albion, a Zanfarian •prince., and pro
ifes
Instead of 'eis beset h
of russians placed there on purpose to de -- Jiroy him.’ — But is timely relieved hy Plivio.
THALMO finding that the Sair ATHELIA
always devoted to cruelty, and concluding within himself, that she triumphed over his missortunes, Seeing her in the next arbour, aster a Small compliment, he addressed himsels to her in these few words:
“Madam.

  ^94
1/
I
/
Madam,
IT is my misfortune to love unpitied
charmed with that excellent beauty which you poffess, I am come to learn whether I shall be happy or miserable.*’
Athelia Surprised to find thalmoso near her when she least expected him, yet shadowing her affeistion under the protection of nicety, sharply replied.
“Thalmo, I still am what I professed; and if you approve of it, as you came unlooked-for. So when you please you may depart.*’
“Why, Madam, replied the prince. So harsh a Sentence? Should I, who have been ever faithful to you, now become
incon
Hi:
I
I, ■
■ ^ I
^4
inconstant? Or would you advise me to transform my sore past affection into fu ture hatred ?”
“Thy hatred. Said Athelia, doth more please me than thy affcdion; and yet I care little for both, and less for thyself; therefore, I desire to hear no more on the Subjed.’*
T H A L M o was ready to answer her, when the unexpected appearance of Levina, her gentlewoman, put an end to the discourse. — The princess told him his absence would be necessary, when with a low bow he humbly took his leave, rage ing against Cupid for predestinating him to Serve So tyranizing a beauty.
Walking apart in a private place, he
Saw the fair Atelai a direct her steps towards

/
The hbyal adventtmers.' 1^5
wards the court; upon which he immediately posted thither, where he no Sooner arrived, than he received the
challenge.
ALBION to THALMO.
Sir,
“Being timely acquainted with your aspiring affedionsfor theprincess Athe
LI A, whom the world knows none can
><■
claim to So high a favour as myself, I have Sent you this defiance, to meet me singly
under the castle wall after dinner, there to dispute my rignt with thy Sword, where I will Severely chastise thy insolence in crossing my affections, and make thee Sensible that thou hast insulted thy Superior,
ALBION.
Thalmo

^6
Thalmo was greatly Surprised at
this unexpected challenge, and disdaining
to be outdone by a zansarian prince, by
his own page returned him the following
answer,
C
Sir,
Understanding by the letter I
have just received, that for the duty I pay
to the princess Athel i a, you have under
taken to correct me for that which you
yourself cannot avoid; I must inform
you. Sir, my nature is Such, that I desire
to live no longer, when once deprived ^
the Sight of the fair yet cruel Athelia.
at the time and place appointed, my

Sword shall demonstrate that my affection
is Such, that I will live and die in her
Service; and that neither thy valour, nor
th
  97 the Sear of death, shall tear her idea from
my memory
THALMO.**
As Soon as the messenger was dispatch ed, he hasted to his apartment, in order to prepare for the reception of this unexpected rival: — the time being come, Thalmo, according to his promise, failed
not to present himself, where, instead of meeting his challenger, he was treache roussy encountered by a desperate gang of russians, placed in ambuscade to murder him. — Seeing them approach, he imime diately put himself in a posture of defence to receive their fury; and deast Such blows
among them, that at first they were forced to retreat: after reaffuming their strength, they attacked him a Second time, and
Thalmo, not able to withstand their
F united
o8
united power, was glad to take the castle
wall for his defence. — In short, being:
^ O
overpowered with this unequal force, he
received Several dangerous wounds, and
finding his body weak by the great loss of
blood, he fell to the ground, gasping, as
he thought, his last; and in memory of
his dear Athelia, in broken accents, uttered
these words : — “Let my blood testify
how Well I loved Athelia, and remained
constant, even to the last.

He had no Sooner uttered these words.
than Plivio came unexpedledly to his
assistance and raising him on his feet,
flew to his adversaries, and made Such havoc
amongst them, that in a short time
he remained the conqueror, and preserved
a life that he loved more dearly
than his own. — Having bound up his
cousm’s wounds, he instantly conveyed
him
I I
  99
him to a Ikilful Surgeon; and on being informed that there was none mortal, he posted to the court, to inform the princess
Athelia of what had pappened.
F 2
C H A F
/
100
CHAP. XI
Plivio acquaints Athelia of Thalmoh mif. fortune. — At this dreadful news the princess avows her love for him. — She sends to Thai mo hy his coiifin — and afterwards vijits him at his apartments.
LIVIO was no Sooner arrived at the palace than he hasted to the prin cess*s apartments; and with great concern related to her the dangers that
o
Thalmo had undergone, and his present
unhappy Situation.
Athelia, could
now no longer conceal her passion, and
»
continued weeping for his misery, being Sensible that the love he bore her, had induced him to So hazardous an enter
4
prize.
A
/

  loi
prize. — However, she resolved, by his
friend Plivio, to Send him a few lines.
as a manifestation of her affection, which
were to this effect: :
“Prince,
Thy misfortunes have obliged me to
put pen to paper; and So overwhelmed
my senses with grief, that there is not a
word herein contained, but hath been
washed with a tear; therefore, as Athe
LI A is the original cause of thy misfortunes,
I will, to the utmost of my power.
recompense thy constant love; recommending
my Sorrows to your favoiirable
censure, I remain for ever your’s.
ATHELIA.
“Thalmo Soon received the letter
from Plivio, and found, by experience,
/
S
F 3
that
j02
r
that the distemper of the mind, far ex
m
ceeds that of the body; for it wrought Such miracles upon his cure, that, in a few days, he was perfectly recovered; and contemplating upon the favourable epistle his dear Athelia had Sent him, he returned her this answer:
“Madam,
“The honour you were pleased to bestow on your unworthy Servant, has wrought Such wonders upon my distemper, that no physician but yourself could
have effected; the virtue thereof, being So well applied, that the powerful charm
has had its full operation: therefore, madam, on the idea of your divine per
fedstions, I will for ever fix my memory,; never forgetting my kind preserver, but continually offer up my thanks for the receipt of So great a blessing, and unfeignedly

\
T
r
/
  103 feignedly remain, your’s, now and for
ever,
T HAL MO, ’*
The princess was much pleased with the news of thalmo’s recovery, yet could not be Satisfied with the copy, without Seeing the original; — and finding an opportunity when the king and queen were absent, taking Levina with her, she went to the lodge where Thal
Mo resided; and being condufleci to his
#
apartment, she beheld him walking alone, with his arm bound up in a handkerchief.
At the sight of Athelia he was transported beyond measure, and forthwith embraced her, and kissed her hands;
their eyes attracted each other’s sight, and like ambassadors of love, they Icemed to ratify a mutual alliance.
F 4
Thalmo
104 I'he ROYAL ADVENTURERS.
/
Thalmo, Said the princess, you may well wonder at my unexpected arrival, and yet you may imagine that the news of
your misfortune brought me hither; however, not to keep you any longer in
suspence, I am now come, in Some measure,
to retaliate your affection, though, before I thought it not convenient to take
it So Soon in consideration;; since the gods have So decreed if, there is no resisting the divine powers; therefore, you may
place your happiness where your kind stars direct you.”
V
\
The prince perceived, by the fervency of her words, that she uttered no more than love induced hr;; taking her by the hand, returned her this obliging answer j
“Madam
  j05
;

“Madam,
“Your words have So much divinity in themselves, that they carry power with them to whom they are directed, and are
a high cordial to afflicted Spirits; the operation hath caused my breast to triumph
V
over my fickness, which, I believid, would not only have conquered my mind, but also cut off the thread of my life. — But whither wander my senses, that I forget myself So much, as not to gratify your love with reciprocal affection } — pardon me, dear madam, and attribute the defects of my reason to the distemper of my weakness; — for I resolve, both now and ever, to honour and adore you as the eternal goddess of my prosperiry; and esteem you as the Sacred image of my fe

I
5
To
jo
To which Ah TELIA answered, “Where there is no offence committed, of consequence
the excuse ceaseth: — thy actions being cleared from imputation, be not timorous, for thy pardon is Sealed; — therefore advance in love; — proceed in amity, and I will correspond in friendship^for the approbation of which, here, take my heart and hand, as the steadfast Seal of immortal constancy; vowing before the imperial throne of heaven to take only Thalmo for my lord and husband.
With, amorous ceremonies they firmly contradled themselves; — and in Such an affectionate manner, that neither the frowns of fortune, the treachery of time, or the flattery of insinuation, could check their friendship, or once daunt their immoveable fidelity, Having now brought
this

  107
this couple to a Sacred union, we will for a while leave them, and discourse of
the strange accidents that betel the prin
ccssflorina.

F 6
CHAP,
jo
CHAP. XII
I
Fiorina is ordered to the court hy her father She refuses to comply. — He sends a guard to force heri and she escapes to the sea ftde^
/ ft
where she is protefied hy an aged fijher man. — They are taken prisoners hy a pur kijh Xeheque. — ^^florina is detained, and the refijet at liberty.
FLORINA, after a long banishment, was by the king her father, commanded to repair immediately to the court; — and being apprehensive it would hinder her from paying that respedl due to the prince her lover, she posstively re fused to comply. — The king being in form.ed of her obstinacy, immediately dis patched a messenger to force her to a
com.
  109
compliance; — of this she was timely acquainted, and consulted with hersels how to avoid her sather’s indignation. — Find
9
ing, aster mature deliberation, no other
V
means for escape, but to shelter herself under Some peasant’s cottage, she laid aside her grandeur, and pursued her intended purpose. — In this Situation she remained a const'erable time, and as well contented as a lady of her birth and Sortune could con lain herself, oppressed with love.
Flor I N A being invited to lee the
shepherds lead their stocks to the fragrant fields, in the close of the evening, when the golden Sun was declining, as she was
returning home in company with a shepherdess,
they were unexpectedly met by a Swain, who brought the following message
to Florina.
Madam,
no The ROYAL
Madam,
I
“I ani Sent on purpose to beg that you instantly hide yourself in Some Secret grove;
their is just arrived at my father’s coat tage, four or five russians in Search of you, who have desperately wounded my father for concealing you; — if you value your own preservation, make no delay; and Since the laws of nature and humanity oblige us to assist ail in distress, I will, if you think proper, con dud you with Safety through the woods, where you may remain with most assured privacy.
Flor in A, Surprised at her father’s cruelty, yet pleased with the shepherd’s civility, and pondering with herself what course to take in this exigency, at last determined to take the youth’s advice. — The
fliep.

  iij
*
shepherdess resolving to bear her company, they directed they course to the Sea fide, which in two days they attained without interruption.
Walking upon the borders of thesea, they came to a little creek, where they Saw an aged fisherman repairing his nets.
Having given him the time of the day, they ashed him, if for recreation, he would take them a league on the ocean : — the fisherman demanded a recompense, to which they willingly complied, and with a pleasant breeze they put to Sea.
I N this manner they passed away the
time till night gave them a Summons to
return. — However, before they reached the (bore, Florin A informed the old man
of her deplorable Situation; and likewise begged of him, with tears in her eyes, to
lend
112
m
lend her his assistance in her great distress; and for her sasery to convey her every day
on the Sea. — The fisherman moved to compassion by her outward Sorrow, and instigated by her liberality, condescended to her reasonable request.
This course they continued many days, with as much Satisfadlion to Florina as is she had been triumphing in her Sormer dignity. — At last, Sortune resolved to add more misery to her affliction, and caused her unexpedledly to fall within the labyrinth of a greater misfortune.
Sailing witha pleasant gale about two leagues from the shore, they were brought to by a Turkish Xebeque, who fired a gun as a Signal for that purpose, and hoisting their Sails, immediately bore down upon them. As Soon a they came along fide
they

  113
they were commanded to come on board,
which greatly alarmed their little crew, especially Florin a, from whose eyes the round drops rolled down her beauteous cheeks; which, as the perfect messengers of Sorrow, apparently demonstrated her insupportable grief; — but alas! — all in vain — for there was no remedy, nor any
near at hand to rescue her from their cruelty. — Florin A being the last that entered, the Turkish staves no Sooner beheld her angelic beauty, than they clapped their hands, and threw their caps in the air, being overjoyed that they had got So glorious a prize to present to their Sultan.
The captain of the ship admiring the beauty offuorina, by her modest as pedt, conceived she was a person of noble
extradion; therefore he discharged the
rest, and retained her only, whom he com
%

I
114
manded to be entertained with all the re ipedt and favour the nature of her fituatioa would allow; and the better to effect his orders, he forsook his cabin, and lodged her in it, charging his Servants to attend, her with as great diligence as on himself; so that she might perceive, as they entertained her with civility, So they likewifq honoured and respedted her, by never once attempting to violate her chastity, which she esteemed more precious than her life.
Notwithstanding this unexpedfed indulgence, she could not forget her lost Medor she wept, as if his absent idea had a regal prerogative to create her tears, and lamented the unfortunate accident that had lately befallen her. — In her contemplations she ruminated upon his absence, and her own present misery, frequent
ly bursting into public exclamations.
Th


  115
The captain perceiving her distress, used his best endeavours to Sooth her Sorrows;
telling her at the Same time, that no proceedings should be exercised against her, and that Such respedl should paid her, as her truth and constancy deserved; she having previoufiy made the captain acquainted with her whole history. Leaving the princess in the captain’s possession,
making the best of his way for Constantinople, we shall return to Plivio and
Me RSILVA.
CHAP.
/
Ii
CHAP. XIII
Plivio being acquainted with Thalmoh success with the princess Athelia, refohes to
his fuit
fi
that purpose, and hearing that mersilva, with the queen and her attendants wen taking the diverfton of hunting he deter
4
i
mines to join the chate. — By some accident Mersslva loses sight cf the company,, and is overtaken by a young lord named bli thion, one of the party; he attempts her virtue but is unexpefiedly defeated in his
i
from whom he meets his death.
LIVIO being insormed of his cousm thalmo’s proceedings, and of the
r
fuccess he had met with in his amours,
began to conceive Some hope that by the
inter

y'
ff
t
  117
1
intercession of the princess Athelia, he
should obtain
Me
S
Upon which he hasted to the court in order to renew his Suit; and on being informed that the princess, with the queen, Athelia, and their attendant lords and ladies were hunting in the forest, he im mediately repaired thither in order to join the royal company; being fond of the diversion, though, at this time, particularly So, that he might behold ihe beauty of the
fair Mersilva.
In the midst of the forestt, it happened, that the stag escaped from their sight, which caused the company to take different routs in order to find him out, and to renew the chase— — the rest, there was a young lord named Blithion, that had long conceived a passion for the princess Mersilva, but could never
get
/
N
Ii
get an opportunity of disclosing his af? section.
IT so happened, that the princess lost sight of the company, and ranging discontentedly, as if her courage had been vanquished with despair, she was unfortunately met by this young lord, who being overjoyed with the opportunity that presented itself, without any ceremony. Saluted her in the following indecent manner.


Madam,
“I have a long time laboured under many perplexities which your divine beauty has been the cause of; — and Since fortune is now so favourable to me, I beseech
you, let us enjoy the present opportunity; therefore, madam, stand not so
much



\
/

r

r
  n
•
much oil your pundtilios of difdatn, but coilfider with yourself where you now are; the time, — the place— — present you are destitute of assistance, and your life and honour are at my disposal— — will not be denied with refusals, nor deluded by delays; — for in spite of fortune, I must Satisfy my love, and reap the enjoyment of my long desired expedfation.
To prevent the consequences that may ensue, readily consent, otherwise you will
oblige me, after enjoyment, to use you with Such barbarity as my nature would Scarce offer to your lovely Sex, much less to you, madam, whom I have ever adored.
mersilva, astonished at his brutal behaviour, began to weep, — and sighing as if her breast would rend asunder with insupportable grief, called on the divine
powers
Bo
powers to preserve her innocence, and to shelter her from the rapine of this cruel lord: — however, considering that Silence
was a demonstration of consent, she re
#
made the following reply.
“If, Sir, you had ever been trained up
in the School of virtue, you would have tempered your words with discretion, and not presumed to offend a chaste lady’s ear with Such obscenity; and Since your tongue has uttered that which cannot be recalled, know, thou tyrant, that I debt
fpise thy threats; — I am myself the guardian of my honour, and will protect it with my life; — therefore, with Speed depart, and bid adieu to your barbarous designs“
“” Said he, “it is in vain to resist where there is none to rescue you;
yet
')
«.
  121
yet were Hercules himself present, he should not debar me from my purpose.”
'A'
i
“Inhuman Lord, ” replied the princess,
“Since reason will not allay your cruelty, in permitting me to depart with out blemishing my honour, be assured that, rather than consent to thy lascivious demand, I will voluntarily be the instru
4
ment of my own death.”
Blithe ION, not moved with remorse but still burning with inordinate desire to extenuate the fire of his insatiable lust, thought every minute a month, before he had perfedted his diabolical enterprise;
and taking her by the trembling hand, he began to embrace her 'Plivio, at this iftstant appeared in sight, and hearing the cries of a person Seemingly in dis
G tress,
%
122
tress, came unexpededly to her assistance; which the princess perceiving, cried out, “Plivio, as you tender my affection, and value my honour, assist your unsor tunate Mersilva; ^ — preserve me from this inhuman monster, and let him meet the reward due to his crimes
Plivio perceiving it to be his dear Mersilva, inflamed with revenge, he flew to the Spoiler, and plunged his Sword into his breast; where, receiving his reward, he Sell to the ground, and instantly expired!.
C H A P.
  123
r
S'
CHAP. XIV
9
, /
he pirincefs mersilva recovers from the frighti andy with Plivio, immediately
join the company to whom they relate their adventure. — The queen informs the king cf, plivio’s generous behaviour to the princess.
The king rewards him with a command inthearmy. — He renews his fuittotheprin cefs, hut meets with little encouragement.
T
H E princess, aster returning thanks to her deliverer, related to him the whole proceedings; which, when he understood, he thanked the stars for making him the happy instrument of her delivery. — Me rsilva being pretty well re
1
covered, he again mounted her on her milk white steed, resolving to find out the queen; — to whose presence they were no Sooner arrived, than he gave a relation
of this adventure, which Me rsilva veg
2
rified
124
%
rifled by a fresh shower of tears; which., like dew on damash roses, distilled on her lovely cheeks. The queen, together with the princess Athelia, and the rest of the ladies were greatly rejoiced at her delivery, and gave Plivio, incessant thanks for his undaunted courage. The queen likewise assured him, that she would use her endeavours to bring about their happy union.
They then left the forest, and returned to the court, where they were no Sooner arrived, than the kjng was made acquainted of what had happened; — he highly commended the prince for his valour; and, as a mark of his approbation, appointed him to an honourable command; which added more hope to his de sired enterprise, and made him not a little rejoice at the accidental event of Such good fortune.
Per.


/
r

■ \
  .125
Perceiving himselsgreatly in favour with the king and queen, and likewise in the princess athelia’s, being So nearly allied to Thalmo; and finding that his adored Mersilv a could reap no satissac tion but in his presence, he determined to lose no time, therefore he hasted to her apartments, where, finding her alone, he amoroussy addressed liimself to her:
“Madam, all alone a kiss of your
fair hand for, your best thoughts.*’ — “Not
alone. Sir, ” Says she, “for my thoughts
are my best companions; yet my contemplations are so frivolous, that less than
what you Speak of may purchase them.’*
The prince was overjoyed to see her in so facetious a humour, and resolved
to continue his discourse:
G 3
Why
126
“Why, sairmfirsilva, less than a kiss from your Sair hand, or a Smile from
these lips, ■ is in effect nothing; — and ladies will Scarce thank their lovers with So fiender an affection— — “Sir, ” Says she “I will prove to the contrary,
for they are many times So effectual, that
it raises their lovers to So great a height
> * »
of ambition, that they frequently take too much privilege.”
But, madam, ” replied privioj “these are shadows without Substance for there is great difference between pretence and performance — for the one is the
others contrary: — And taking her handj he advanced it to his lips, ' and kissed it;
with a sharp rebuke, she
whereupon
7
laid.;
Sir;
  127
CC
S I R,
“I little thought your proceedings would have been So peremptory! for had I but once judged your actions would have been of So large an extent, my absence should have given you an utter
denial.’*
The prince Seeing her patience a little moved, thought to balance his offenccj with an humble answer; and replied.
Madam,
)
Your anger carries Such a power, that whatever course it steevsj it sits triumphant. — Had I thought my innocerit actions would have So Soon incurred your displeasure, I would have prevented, by my care, what has happened.”
g4
To
/
128
To this the princess replied, “I now See, that it is my favour, which is the occasion of this disorder therefore, to avoid the like for the future, you may,
as you came, depart, and return when you are Sent for.’*
“Madam, Said the prince, if the demonstrations of my passion has created in you this displeasure, I beseech you impute it to my affection, which was the chief occasion; — and, as a reward for my crime, inssid on me what punishment you think will be equivalent to the of
tence.
55
1
The princess blushed at this answer,
but, in Such a manner, as if love anddis
♦ *'
dain Sat on her cheeks, striving for Supremacy : however, considering she had gone
So
  129
lb Sar, and that the Subject whereon she had grounded her anger was So Small she Suddenly took her leave, and without sar there ceremony left the prince to his prte vate meditations.

\
G s
CHAP.
170 The
J
CHAP. XV
I
he tprincefs returns to Plivio — iiaving obtained sufficient proofs of his confiancy and affection, she acknowledges her pajfion for
him and meets with a fuitaue return
LIVIO was greatly astonished at her ungenerous treatment, yet determined to wait for her return; — and taking a book in his hand, he Sat himseif down to read, in order to divert his melancholy. — In a short time, however, the princess returned, and pretending asto nifiiment to See him present, forgetting her former behaviour, ashed him plea
wind brought hitli. thi
Santly, What there? — To which, with a deep Sigh, he replied;
Madam,
  131
“Madam,
“It is your cruelty thafhath created my Sorrows, and if you did not triumph over my misery, you would, with justice,
pity my unhappy Situation; — theresore,
madam, I beseech you, be not prolix in those favours you are pleased to bestow on me, but rather let me know my destiny, whether I shall live your admirer, or die
your martyr

The princess observing with what fervent zeal he pleaded, instantly returned him this answer:
Plivio, your value and virtue, having
combined their force in the bond of
*
unity, hath, long Since, in my breast, made way for your affcdion: — and though I
G 6
have
j72
O' w
have hitherto resrained discovering my
*
affedfions, impute it not to the defect of my benevolence, but rather to the zeal which I had to make proof of your constancy. — But now I call the gods to wit ness, that, from my heart, I adore none but Plivio, the morning star of my felicity.”
“The prince was now completely happy, and thought himself over paid for all
his former anxieties.
“Divine Mer
silva, ” Said he, “if my tongue could
express, or my mind discover the never dying fidelity which is imprinted in my
breast, I should acknowledge myself bound to nature, and indebted to art, for endu
I
me with So great a felicity. — Yet, I beseech you to believe, that I have grounded my constancy upon So Sure a foundation, and my fidelity upon So firm
a

a resolution, that neither the alluring events of prosperity, nor the terrifying
threats of misfortune, can either extenuate by flattering shadows, or extinguish
by frowning Substance; let the memory of our tender affections, break the waves of discontent; and let the novelty of our
friendship, triumph over insmuating dis
>
consolation; — the gods Seem to Sympathise our amity, and Fortune herself delights to crown our friendship. — despair is. the path
to destrudtion; — therefore, cheer up your Spirits, and let a pleasant countenance
gild the face of day; and to retalliate your affection, take my heart and hand, as a pledge of my immortal constancy.
Mir SILVA was weli pleased with the return of his affe<5u6n, and comforted herself with the assurance of his fidelity.

Dear
ij4
Dear Plivio, ” Said the princess, “being heretofore a prisoner, I am now, by your kind aid and assistance, Set once more at liberty : yet when I remember the king, my father, I cannot forbear w'eep ing, that I should So unadvisedly bereave him of a daughter. — However, with an assured hope, that you will perform no iefs than you promise, I vow to be wholly your’s, and none but death shall Sepa
V
rate us.
52
Having passed the day in amorous
%
parley, and given a mutual exchange of vows, Plivio prepared for his departure; — — and taking the princess by the hand, with a Sigh, he gave her this friendly farewell:
\
Dear
  ise
“Dear Mersilva^
•%
V ^
“I must now be constrained To leave you to your contemplations; but I will immediately repair to my closet, and
there contrive the means of establishing
our future tranquillitytherefore, till I
am again made happy by enjoying your
company, I take my Sorrowful leave.’^*'
\
C H A
j

i36
CHAP. XVI
Plivio informs his coujin Thalmo of his fub
eefs with the princess Merfilva. — Thai
%
mo mentions his dejire to return hom
V

fents
\
They
discover to the ladies their birth and parent age with their real'names', and their intentions of leaving the court of Zanfara, Lhe ladies resolve to join their company
They depart the next night without mo’ lejlation.
LI VI O having now attained the love of mersi.lva, he went immediately to his Goufin Thalmo, to whom he related the event of his proceedings,,
S
and the prosperous conclusion of his amorous
enterprise.
Thalmo was well
'ie ROYAL ADVENTURERS.

pleased with his success, and ashed him, “if his lady was contented to leave the
fourt, and travel with him.’’ — He told him he had mentioned it to her, and her reply was very effedlual; — << that she would accompany me as far as confines of the world would permit, or I desire.’^
long been absent from our
“Why then, ” replied Thalmo, “the
princess Atheha andmirsilva, Sin pathize in one agreement; and hath vowed no more than Athelia desires to
4
perform — To reside here is but folly and as we have native country, it is now time to think of
returning; therefore, let us hasten our departure, lest our loves be discovered, and our hopes crossed by envy, in the blossoms of their maturity. — To avoid future consequences, let us, in private,
convey
138 The ROYAL ADVENTUREBU
convey the ladies away; for, if the report of our departure should reach the cars of the king, he will, without doubt, use his utmost Severity against us, and either depriving us of our loves or liberties.



Plivio listened attentively to his cou
I
fiffs advice, and approved of the dessgn: in this determination, each departed to his lady, to inform them of their resolution to return to their native country; and not only discovered to them their births, but also their real names, which till this time had been kept a Secret from all: — The ladies, you may be Sure, were still better pleased with their Choice, and without far there ceremony, gave themselves up entirely to their disposal. —  having apparent proofs of each
others
he ROYAL ADVENTURERS. 139
Others affe<stion, and being desirous to leave the court of Blithion as Ibon as possible, they agreed to Set out the next night, between twelve and one, from the outer gate of the palace, and there to wait the arrival of the ladies; which warning, though short. Seemed agreeable to all parties.

The hour being come, they failed not to be in readiness to receive the ladies, and waited their arrival with the utmost impatience. — The ladies, on their part,
came at the time and place, ap
/
where they were received with open arms; no words could they utter, because their tongues, by the power of
love, were devoted to Silence.
lust at
their arrival, an alarm was given in the palace, which So amazed them, that they
i
knew
[ 140
#
knew not how to Save themselves, nor where to convey the ladies; — however, as they had gone So Sar, they were determined to escape, or perish in their enter
I
prize. — The alarm increasing, andthal meno finding their affairs desperate, and
perceiving that he must either lose his own
$
lise, or that of his dear athelia’s, which
he esteemed Sar more precious, reaffum
ing his courage. Said to Flivio, This is no time for dallying, therefore, with
courage, lead forth your lady, and if any presume to stop your passage, instantly make way with your Sword, but do not shed unnecessary blood; — for you, fair ladies, fear nothing, your virtues are a Sufficient bulwark for your preservation.’^
7
\
This Said, they went hand in hand through the outer gate, without interruption; where they found their pages, each
* •
with

Hie ROYAL ADVENTURERS. 141
with a horse, ready to attend them. After rewarding them for their fidelity, and enjoining them to Secrecy, they mounted their steeds, and, under cover of the night, in a short time passed through the town and Suburbs, without interruption : daybreak appearing, they began to consider what course to take, and resolved to go through the woods, the better to shelter them from the sight of any person that might be Sent in Search of them.
I
CHAP,
■fii the ROYAL adiventurersi,
CHAP. XVII

mej^sngers are dispatched in search of the. ladies, who are supposed to he taken away, hy Thalmeno and Palmos, hut without
effefi ^'travelling through a forefi, thy, find a cottage, where they alight for n.
frefhmenty and find it inhabited hy prince Medor, mentioned in the former part of
this, hookr — Thalmeno acquaints him of
.
fiorina’s retirement, and offers to condu^ him to her, which he readily accepts of
t
\

and her companion, the princess Mersilva, not appearing the next day as usual, caused a general alarm throughout the palace — their apartments were Searched — their intimates and acquaintances questioned —
and a general hue and cry was Spread
>
through
V
VI
/
{
The ROYAL adventtjrers. 143
throughout the whole city.'^but all without effefi: — not the least intelligence could be obtained, nor any idea formed of their cscape, till it was known, that the two knights of Arabia were fikewife missing. The king and royal family immediately conjectured that they had carried them off; and messengers were dispatched in Search of them, who all took different routs, and returned without their errand. The king and queen were inconsolable
for the loss of their only daughter, and felt more than a parent’s grief; however,
they lived in hopes that time would restore her to their longing arms, and that her future conduct rriight make amends
for the rash and unadvised step she had taken.
By this time the adventurers were got many leagues from Zanfara; and no
longer
144
longer under any apprehensions of being pursued: — as they were riding by a forest’s fide, they Saw a pleasant cottage, which both Athelia and Mersilva were de fiirous to enter, and requested their princes to alight, and accompany them; who cheerfully complied, being glad of the opportunity, of getting them refreshment.
V
On entering the forest, they diredcd their way to the cottage, and were no Sooner entered, than they beheld a young man. Seemingly overcome with grief, numbering on a green bank, with a book, pen, ink and paper close by him. At the sight of these unexpected .visitors, he raised himself from the b^nk, whereon he lay, and thus addressed himself to them:

\
• V
Gen
  145
, “Gentle Strangers,
“Admire not mysorrov/s, nor wonder at my disconsolateness, as Sortune hath invested me with this miserable calamity; — but to extirpate his tyranny, and to triumph over his usurpation, I have Solitarily taken myself to this grove, to live, though
r
not So well contented as I could wish : my rural cottage affords no dainties, but poverty; yet. Such as it is, if you please to accept it, I shall think myself honoured;
and in whatever it comes short of your expectation, I will Supply in freeness of
ftrvice and
55
I'
The ladies perceiving his good-humour, and the nature of his kind osters, thought themselves far indebted to his bounty; and Palmos returned him this friendly answer :
H
Sir
146

‘VS I R,
“The Sricndship which in our travels you are pleased to afford us, are of that extent, that we absolutely confess ourselves So much your debtor, and we must own our weakness to be Such, that we cannot repay you with a just re compence for your unmerited favours; however, we return you our hearty thanks for your extraordinary humanity, assuring you, at the Same time, that if ever any favourable Subject presencs itself, wherein we can retaliate your civility, you will
find us So willing that the effecfls thereof shall not, tax us with ingratitude.
V

\
He had no Sooner finished his Speech, than the stranger took the ladies by the
hand, and requested them with their companions



  147
panions to enter another apartment, where he presented them with Such resresnment, as his homely dwelling afforded; — the re past being over, he ashed the ladies to recreate themselves in the garden, to which they readily consented, and were attended by their lovers. — Passing thro’ a Sragrant walk, planted with beaiuisul trees and fiowering shrubs, they attained the entrance of a garden, beautiful beyond
description,; after viewing the flowers and fragrant herbs, and tasting of the choicest fruits to avoid the excessive heats of the Sun, they betook themselves to the
bowers, where their beloved princes congratulated them with their happy welcome. — The stranger viewing their innocent familiarity, brought to his remembrance his past pleasures V ith the princess
«
Florina; and, being willing to hide his Sorrows, and to put on a face of cheerful
H 2
ness
148
ness while his guests continued with him, he vathdrew to a private part of the garden, that his tears might not disturb the happiness which they Seemed to enjoy.

Athelia perceiving him at a distance, ruminating on his unhappy lot, began to
surmise that he was in love with Some lady, whose cruelty was the cause of his Suffering; and pondering on'his.grief by her own Sorrow, bewailed his misfortune, and compassionated his affliction. — They plainly perceived that their arrival had renewed his grief, and lamented to bring that a fresh to his memory which proved his torment. — Ac length the ladies returned to the cottage, and in the way found a paper that contained the following words :
t The idea of Florina shall never depart
my memory
79
Aft r
r
  149
After perussng the paper, they immediately thought Florina to be the object
« «
his wishes; however, they took the paper to the princes, who were walking at Some distance from them; and which they had no Sooner read, but remembering the name of Florina, they began
to conjecture that their kind host, was
the person they had been in search of in the former part of their travels; in order to satisfy their ardent desire, they went directly to the bower were he was seated, and Thalmeno thus addressed himself to him :
4c
Sir
“I beseech you to satisfy me whether you are acquainted with the princess Florina, daughter to the king of Numidia, and whether you know prince Medor, Son to the king of Biafara.”
- He
150
He was greatly Surprised at this question, and told the prince, that he once
s
had the happiness to be acquainted with the person he named, and was the unfortunate Medor he inquired aster; — unfortunate he called himself in being So long absent from from Florina, the memory of whose divine beauty, had, for many mionths, been the Subject of his devotions. — He therefore begged him to
N
ease his tormented mind, by giving him all the information he could respedling his long lost princess.
V
Th ALMENO replied, “Virtuous prince, as you have received us with Such uncommon civility, I will no longer conceal from you those who are your debtors: — know, then, my name is Thalmeno, Son and fieir to the king of Cicilia; and this prince my cousin. Son to the king of Egypt.
Some
  151
Some two years Since, v/e resolved to travel, and privately departed from my bather’s court— — our course to Africa, and journeying three days alone, destitute of a guide, and unficiiful of the ■ country, by chance we strayed into an unknown desai't; - — but fortune, willing
to intermix our bitter Sorrows with Some pleasures, conduced us to a lonely castle: on our entrance we found the princess Florin A, the desolate inhabitant thereof, who, having forsaken her father’s court.
/
vowed there to remain, until the joyful return of your princely Self. She relieved our wants, and made us welcome to what her habitation afforded, (without whose timely Succour, we must inevitably have perished)
t
and furnished us with means to pursue our travels. — This, Sir, is all the information I can give you; — however, if you will honour us with your company, as we
H 4
are
152
are bound for Cicilia, immediately upon our arrival, we will, with chearfulness, conduct you to the place of her Solitary
retii ement.

\
The prince wa overjoyed at this un expedled news, and thanking him for his intelligence, promised to accompany them as Soon as they thought proper to depart. — Medor, fixing his eyes upon the ladies, earnestly requested Th a lme no to inform him who they were, and what
private occasion had induced them to travel; — the prince informed him of their whole proceedings, and of their dessre to'
He admdred their congo
to Cicilia
stancy, praised their virtues, and used his best endeavours to render his habitation agreeable to their wishes; at the same time, offering to be their guide, when
they Snould think proper to depart.
CHAP.
F

  153
CHAP, xviir.
Medor condufis them to the sea Jtde, where they meet with a Jhipt and sail immediately for ciciua — In their voyage they fall in with a fr'urkifh xeheque — and after an objiinate engagement she surrenders to them
V
prince Medor is fenton hoard to take the command of her andy to his great surprise., finds his lost Fiorina, a captive on hoard.
S Medor had offered to be their guide, they immediately prepared for their departure, and were sasely con
dudled through the vineyards to the Sea
✓
fide; — where they were no Sooner arrived, but they Sortunately met with a ship that
H 5
had
•/
154
had been forced to harbour there by tempestuous weather — glad of this unexpected opportunity, they agreed with the master for their passage, and in a few
days, with a favourable wind, sailed for Cicilia.

N
At the entrance of the Mediterranean Sea, they were becalmed in such a manner,
t
that their ship made no way. — The master, having the night watch, heard the noise
of oars ploughing in the Sea; and presently discovered a vessel making towards
them : At this unexpected sight, he was
greatly alarmed, and immediately prepared
to receive them : — In about three hours they came within gunshot, and a des perate engagement began, which lasted for sometime, and terminated at last in
their favour — many were killed and
wounded on both Sides — but neither the
princes,
  155
princes, nor their ladies received any hurt; the ladies indeed, as may easily be sus pedled, were much Srightened, which the
captain perceiving, gave them Vvhat comfort he could in their distressed Situation, and advised them to be cheerful; telling them, the danger was mostly over, and that by the morning, he did not doubt of
being
conqueror. — But, for their lovers, they behaved with undaunted courage during the whole engagement.
The prize proved to be a Turkish xe beque; and as Soon as her colours were
struck, the captain prepared to Send an
officer on board.
Thalmeno
offered his Service, and Palmos declared he would not stay behind — however, Medor Seeing his companions in contention, resolved that they should both stay on board with their ladies; for, if the
H 6
captain

\
156
captain vas agreeable, he was ready and willing to go himself.
The captain, hearing his voluntary resolution, gave his consent, and under a discharge of cannon he went on board Thalmeno and Palmos finding everything
Settled, 'and the danger over, left
9
the deck, and retired to their cabin, where their ladies came to congratulate them of their great and fortunate victory— — pale complexions were changed to cheer full countenances, and their mournful eyes, which were almost drowned in tears began
A.
to clear up *, and, in short, both parties received a general satisfa<5lion.

\
t
Me DOR being arrived alongside the
f prize, entered, with his boat’s crew, without opposition; and both officers and
’ men laid down their arms, which Medor
per
  157
perceiving, commanded his men, on pain of death, not to molest them, either in body or goods.. — The captain stood on the quarterdeck to receive him, and aster the usual compliment, told him, that though it grieved him to be conquered by any, yet Since he must endure the chance of war, he rejoiced in having become tributary

to So worthy a commander. -- -- -- 1
must therefore acquaint you, that there is on board a lady, whom fortune has made
r
my prisoner; — her extradlion I know not, but if outward deportment describes inward qualities, I presume she is Some lady of noble descent— — behaviour, though in adversity, is Such, that she carries her perplexity with a modest countenance, and disdains to render herself tributary to the infidelity of Fortune,
He
158
He was no Sooner aquainted with this circumstance, but desirous to know who hissair captive might be, than he requesred the captain to take him to her presence,
which he accordingly did, and Sound her lying prostrate in the cabin, drowned in tears, expedling the first that entered to be the harbinger of death. — But, sortu nately for her, it happened otherwise!
y
for when she expected he would sheath his
Sword in her innocent breast, he took her by the hand, and with an humble voice,
Ipoke these words to her:
“Ar ise, fair lady, your life and liberty is granted you; — and what more you may hereafter request, if in our power, shall, as Soon as possible, be complied with.”
Shi
/
  15^
I
She remembered his voice, though they had been So long Separated, and immediately raised hersels from her bed of Sorrow; and perceiving it was med.or that pro
^4
nounced the welcome Sentence, she put
I ^
aside her veil, and, to his great Surprise,
discovered to him his long lost Florin a. A Second view confirmed his belief,
I
and with open arms went and embraced her.
CHAP.
X
io
CHAP. XIX
%
he hapfy meeting of Medor and Fiorina, ’
Lhe prince informs her he is bound for Cecilia., Jhe consents to go with him — Lhe princess prevails on Medor to fet the prize at liberty., in return for the indulgence Shown to her., which he cotnplies with They return on board his own Jhip, ^ where the lady is joyfully received by his
princely associates
\

■ ^
EAR Florina, ” Said he, taking her by the hand, “could I finish
my days in thy embraces, or Sacrifice the remainder of my life before thy divine deity, I should esteem myself most happy;
being, at lash freed from the chains of bondage, and from the fetters of despair,
I
4^
I
  ii
here present you with my constancy and fidelity; and, as I have long Since devoted mysels to your powerful charms, So I re solve to live and die your saithsul admirer.


Florin A no Sooner heard these words, than with an amiable, yet sorrowsul voice, she returned him this answer:
“Dear Prince,
Were I acquainted with that friendly power that hath given thee freedom, and recondufled thee to my prcsence, my Sincere congratulation should inform you with what constancy I attended your coming, and with what Sincerity I honour thy
arrival: — since thy departure, my life has been a continual round of unhappiness 5
yet

i62
yet, in enjoying once more thy presence,
I bury the memory osall my Sormer griefs
%
in the grave of oblivion; invincible affection hath So captivated my Spirits, that I live now only to respedl you; — and, in Ipight of fortune’s effecsts, resolve to die in the league of your desired friendship.”

The prince pondered upon her affectionate words, and not able to contain Such ardent expressions, requested she would banish from her breast the memory of Sorrow, and let contentment flourish in her mind: — ‘‘and, dear Florina, ” Said he, “Since Fortune hath So ordained it, that now, contrary to my expeflation, you are made my happy prisoner, know, empress of my thoughts, and angel of my imaginations, that, with most respedlable company, I ’am bound for Cicilia, where, as
Soon

  163
Soon as we arrive, I will most willingly Solemnise our nuptials, and fix the utmost limits of my hopes and happiness.”
Florina was well pleased with this Sresh proof of his affection, and Said,
“Think not, dear prince, that having
devoted myself to you, I repent me of my
/
enterprise; — I beseech you, on the contrary, lose no time, but continue your course, that we may reciprocally enjoy the desired object of our immortal affections.


The prince being uneasy till he had made his princely associates acquainted with his good fortune, requested the prin cess to make ready for her departure, that fhey might pursue their voyage to Cecilia, tocicilia! Said Florina, with astonishment,
i64
nishment
which Me DOR observing, desired
to know the occasion of that Sudden
Surprise : — to which she replied'
C
Since
ing, for your Sake,
first I heard you mention the name of Cicilia, my present joys hath called to my remembrance my Sormer miseries: — hav
Sequestered myself from all company, and taken up my residence in adesolate castle, there unexpectedly
came two strangers from Cicilia; at whose earnest request, I informed them
I
of the reason why I had cloistered myself
i
from the world; — they admired my constancy; — and, in return for Some Small favours that I afforded them, they protested Solemnly to Search you out; at least, if you were to be found in the confines of Africa.”
N

“And have you not, ” replied Medor, '
“Since heard of their adventurous proceed
/
ROYAL ADVENTURERS. 165
ceedings?
33
“No, ” Said Florin a.
“which much troubles me, as they were So commpassionate for my Sorrows, and
admirers of my affedlionsd*
After making each other acquainted with their Sufferings, Florina declared her resolution of accompanying him to
Cicilia, or to any part of the world, rather
than return to her father’s court. “Come, dear prince, Said she, let us go from hence, and crown our miseries with the
triumph of content — Fortune, you know,
is variable, therefore let us lose no time.
while an opportunity presents itself — this favour, likewise, I do request, that these staves, who are made your prisoners, may without prejudice, have permission to depart freely, in return for the care and civility shown me whilst I was their captive.

33
The
166
The prince commeilded her for de siring the gratefuh return; and Sending for the captain, he returned him his Sword, telling him at the Same time, that he was
once more at liberty to pursue his own course; and desired that his own boat might be immediately got ready with the.
men that came on board with him, which was Soon complied with. The boat being manned, he was informed by the captain that all was ready for his departure taking Florina by the hand, he conveyed her
Safely into the boat, and under a discharge of cannon, with a favourable gale, they were conducted to their own Snip.
V

\
On his entrance, he conveyed Florina to his cabin; and then inquired for the princes, and being condudled to them,
they congratulated his Safe return, ' and ashed him what success: — to which he replied,
I
II
ii
II
  167
plied, “Instead of a rich prize, 1 have met with an inestimable jewel, the value of which cannot be cast up by the whole industrious Science of arithmetic!”
“No,. (Said Athelia) why then I sup pose you have taken all the mint of Mexico,

or engrossed the minerals of Peru.’*
Indeed, ladies, I have not, (Said the prince) and yet I divinely rejoice in possessing So Sacred a present.”



ll
II
* VI
it
The company was at a loss to guess vrhat this valuable jewel could be; however Thalmeno told him, “that he supposed he had received Some intelligence of the princess Florina, or Seen the idea of her beautiful perfections'
At the name of Florina, he could not help Smiling, and stepping to his cabin, where he had left her, in a few minutes, he prcsented her to them : — at the first
sight
368
fight the princes conjedtured her to be his
long lost princess; but not able to justisy
their Suspicion, looking at one another, they
did not care to congratulate her by the
name of Florin a. — On the other hand,
theflady remembered their Saces persedlly
well, and knew them to be Thalmeno
and Palmos, — which they perceiving,
immediately congratulated her on the
happy event that had restored her to her
favourite Medor. After receiving their
congratulations, the prince introduced her
#
to the ladies in these few words :
\
K
“Fair princesses, this lady, which I
now present to you, is my admired Flo
• /
whom I honour and adore as the .voddess of my felicity.” — ^
Athelia and Mersilva hearing this, monstrated by their Smiling countenances.
  160
nances, that their hearts were inwardly filled with joy and gladness, and returned him this answer:
“Prince Medor, we heartily congratulate youj on this unlooked-for happiness,
and rejoice that Fortune hath at last Smiled upon you in the happy arrival of
your beloved Florina; ” — whereupon they Saluted her, and gave them a happy
welcome.
1
CHAP.
f70
CHAP. XX
oft
N
trarodinary and interesting circumstances cf
«
their travels — are interrupted by a violent
fterm ariftng

a
C
ft
confuftcn., but produfhve of the fever eft trial of love and fid endfhip.
ORDS cannot describe the complacency that Sat on the countenance, or the joy that reigned in the breast of each hero and heroine at this unexpected interview — which naturally
led them to rested; on their romantic ex cursion, and Surnishcd a conversation at once interesting and entertaining.

Scarce were their congratulations and
Salutations ended, than Thalmeno opened
/
/
  171
ed the pleasing converse : — “I have often imagined. Said he, but now find, that no circumstance in life affords more pleasure to the ingenuous mind, than the unex peded Sight of a long absent lover, or a ■ Sudden interview with a generous friend.
As I heretofore Sympathised with the fair forelorn one in her distress, when in plaintiff accents she bemoaned the loss
of a beloved Me dor, torn from her arms by a cruel, an inexorable father, who opposed his inflexible evils to the ultimate happiness of a once most affectionate and obedient child; So I now feel an exquisite delight in having the present opportunity of congratulating them on the kind interposition of their better fortune; their auspicious stars, which Seem to have crowned their mutual
I 2 Sincerity,
172
Sincerity, and all their past toils, by
bringing about an event, as unexpedled
}-
as prosperous, and affording them ano
\
there occasion or renewing their plighted
vows, and testifying the Sincerity of their
\
mutual attachment. — When bent on travel
and romantic exercise, I strayed from
my royal father’s domains, accompanied
by my other Pylades, my dearest Pal
Mos, I knew not of the power of all
conquering beauty; nor had I pondered
on the mighty estecls of captivating love,
till chance directed us to your lonely.
but hospitable mansion, where the generous
Florino So benevolently administered
to our necessities. We received
on our departure, from her lily hand, a
paper, wherein fiie had penned, the
cause of her retirement, and all her poignant
woe — she Seemed then to live, only
to deplore
Pity in
or
O
  173
Pitying the fate of the disconfoiate
fair, we determined, noble MEDOR, 'as errants at large, to range the wilds of Africa, in quest of the object of her adoration; perfuadedy that no incident in
the course of our adventures, would give us more real satisfaction, than by apprising you of the seat of her retirement, to bring together two' lovers separated by
cruel fate, but united in the bonds of an
indiffulable affedlion we ranged, but
in vain, through a vast tract, wildy desart,
inhospitable and forlorn, - without a clue to guide us, rill we fortunately encountered, an antiquated dame, called Virtue, in a place where you would Scarcely expect to
even the palace of Folly; a mansion adorned with all that
S
can attradl the age, or inflame the desire of mortals, deaf to the didlates of reason, and under the absolute government of

meet that riaid lady
O J
I 3
passion.
\
174
passion — Though young and inexperienced, we had the resolution to withstand the allurement of its female inhabitants, and shun those impure embraces which lead to difease and infamy. — The venerable matron, just before she vanished from our sight, lest her Salutary counsel should not make a due impreshon and
effedlually influence our future conducst,
left with us a Summary of religion and morality, which we preserve as an invaluable treasure; and by which we arc determined to regulate our lives and actions.

Time, and along and tedious course of travel, at length brought us to the Spot wherein I received my first wound from the shaft of Cupid, and fell a victim to his piercing dart. But I found, to my
extreme mortification, an ineffable pain;
that
  175
that the pangs of despised love, are by much more intolerable than the keenest stroke from the little god
To love and not be loved
no tongue
can express! no heart can conceive the piteous situation, but those on whom fate has entailed the curie — At length, the concealed passion burst forth involuntary,
cheated my desponding Spirits, and opened a dawn of hope that I should yet be happy — time confirmed my expedlation, banished every thought, and accomplished my felicity. The beauteous Athelia professed her love, and the adventurous Thalmeno was more than blessed. — We now await the consummation of our hap piness, and hope shortly to share in the general joy of a respedlive union.
Thus Spake Thalmono, while the rest, but especially Florina, was all atten
I 4
tion.
176
tion. — Palmos confirmed the narrative and remarks of his companion; observed the Similarity of their situation respedling the course of their love, and fervently joined in wishing the accomplishment of their general bliss. The late captive, but now the happy Florina, then begged
i
leave to reply; being desirous to contribute to the pleasure and entertainment of the company, and pass the time agreeably during their confinement on shipboard.
Noble princes, and no less royal fair ones (continued Florina) I rejoice to find, by this favourable incident, that we have been respechvely rewarded in our loves, for which we have undergone the greatest anxiety of mind, ^ as well as bodily dangers and inconveniences — fortune Seems to have been peculiarly inte tercsted in our behalf, and to have directed

\
\
V

\
  177
rested our course, once So remote from
each other to one point, So that our joys
/
are concentered. We have been adventures, and fortunate; brave, and obtained the pnz6; opposed dangers, and are crowned with the Summit of our desires.
I want language to express my feelings, when under the due apprehension of falling a prey to the Turkish Slaves, I'was So happily delivered by my faithful me dor, who like a guardian angel, rescued me from ignominy, and changed a Scene of gloom and despair, into a refulgent paradise of joy and consolation..
%
Whilst Florina was thus descant ing on the grateful theme, the ship’s company were alarmed by a dreadful Squall, which carried away the main top mast before they had time to take in their lalls. This. Squall was Succeeded by
I‘5
a
i; 8
a hurricane as boisterous as was ever known
to the oldest mariners on board. The
hatches were now nailed down, the dead
lights put up, and every preparation
\
made to Secure them from the danger of
o
a turbulent Sea, the lofty Surges of which
threatened immediate death. It is natural
to conceive that Such a Scene of horror
and confusion must cause our female adventurers
to tremble, and not a little affect
even the heroes themselves,
So violent was the storm, that it struck
a general terror and consternation, and
nought was apprehended but immediate
death. To confirm their fears, in the
Space of about an hour, through the violent
concussion of the vestel, from the
boisterous Surges of a most disturbed Sea,
she Sprung a leak, and the only probable
means of Safety was an incessant plyirrg of
the chain pumps. One Set of men followed

  179
lowed the other in a constant Succession; and So toilsome was the labour, that for the Sake of relief, and strengthening each other for the indispenfible duty, not a male
on board was exempted from his turn.
Our Adventurers, royal as they were, most
*
chearsully acquiesced with the necessary injundtion, and became an example to the crew of alacrity and resolution.
Nothing So essentially concerned them, as the Security of the princesses, whose lives they preferred to their own,
as their very existence depended thereom. They would, when disengaged from the generally Successive toil, endeavour to so> lace them with assurance of a prospedl that the rigour of the weather would Soon a bate, when they would be delivered from their fears, and enabled to renew the agreeable converse, that had rendered the
1 6 first
I So
first part of the voyage So pleasing and delightful. But So terrible was the appre * hen Son of the fair ones, and So disordered were their whole frames by exceshve Sicknels, all their efforts proved vain, and in Spite of all they could do or Say, they wrung their hands, and Smote their breasts, and showed in their whole countenances, words and actions, exceshve horror and frantic despair.
\
Palmos would recapitulate to his de loved Mersilva, the danger he had undergone in bringing her off, after having protected her person and virtue at the peril of his life: Thalmeno would observe to the enchanting Athelia, the anxiety and torture he had encountered in gaining her affections, and thedaunt less reloiution he had shown in bearintr
O
away his matchless prize, when an alarm
was
  ii
was given in the palace : Me dor, to Sooth the anguish of his constant Flori
NA, recalled to her perplexed mind, the
many prooss of their miserable attachment; that love was greatly enhanced by
danger and difficulties, and that future hours of dalliance might be Sweetened by the present rnost calamituous Scene.

3. -
But all they could obtain from the respedlive objects of their desires, was a heartfelt Sigh, and a look portraying at once, love and despair. — Finding all their efforts incapable of affuaging their grief and anguish: they therefore desistedfrom
farther troubling them, and with the true Spirit of heroism armed their minds for the uncertain event. — Nor was it long ber fore the exigency of their case, called for the exertion of all their magnanimity. The water cncreased prodigiousty in the
hold;
i82
hold; notwithstanding their incessant toiling
at the pumps, gave proof of the
most imminent danger, and it was therefore resoived to take to the boats.
and
throw themselves entirely on the protection
of heavtn. — This being agreed to.
the longboat was first hoisted out, and
Some debate arising concerning precedency,
the Royal Ad venturers, with their drawn
Swords in hand, insisted, that the fair passengers
should fiist be put on board, with
V p w
all possible decency; determined to oppose,
at the hazard of their lives,, any resolution
that might’ be carried to the contrary.
— But there was no occasion for the
exertion or So laudable a Spirit; for the
wind abating considerably, the danger
was consequently less : the boat was therefore
hoisted in again; and they all agreed
to betake themselves to pumping. In
about six hours, the face of things was
reversed;
N
V
N
I
  183
reversed; the tempest subsiding, arid being Succeeded by fine moderate weather: This Scene, however, with respedt to the
royal lovers, tended to confirm a very
/ *
trite maximj that circumstances ofdistress and danger, are the genuine, the only genuine test of love and friendship.
C HAP
i84
C H A P. XXI
\dtienturers after this fcfne of mjlrefs. favoured with the continuance of o

windy
ifant
Cicilian fh
joy of every 'party. — Druyno recognises
his lost fon with paternal affefiiony. and
Thalmeno, Ms royal father with filial duty.
V
\
H E billows of the boisterous
main thus assuaged,, the regions of Neptune having assumed a pleasing aspedt; the countenance of every one on board was happily reversed from horror and despair, to joy and complacency. The adventurous lovers resseded with pleasure on their delivery from a past Scene of distress, and looked forward with
delight
'  185
delight to an approaching period of consummate bliss.

After the late toil and fatigue, it was
natural for the master of the vessel to a vail himself of the favourable wind, in order to reach the much desired haven; that each uneasy mariner might repose in an harbour of Safety, steep Secure from alarming storms, and reap the fruits of laborious danger.
• A'
V
IV
V
In about four days, having failed that whole time with a large wind, the man at
the masthead espied the coast of Cicilia,
and hailing the master on the quarterdeck, proclaimed the joyful news, which was echoed throughout the ship’s company. — The royal passengers, roused with the pleasing Sound of “land, land, ” leaving
ts6 "
n
ing the cabin, where they were conversing on the most rapturous Subjcfls, and hastening upon deck, were congratulated on their making the coast of Cicilia. Preparations were now made for landing;
the cables were bent, the boats were rigged, the passengers changed their attire, and everything on board had the appearance of pleassng expect: ations. A few hours wafted them within shore; the pros pe<st of which, filled the mind of thal meno both with joy and apprehension; thef former being raised from the sight of his native country, which he had long deferred, and the latter from the chastisement
of an incensed parent, for his abrupt departure.
\
V
The Cicilians espying a vessel in the offing, repaired in multitudes to the bank, according to custom, and many looked
through
  187
through their tellescopes, to ascertain the
ship; which not being able to effect, a guard was ordered down to the beach, to
desend them from any hostile attempt.
ft
a
At length they came to an anchor, and a boat was immediately Sent on board;
f
when finding they were friends, a signal was given to those on shore; and they
were immediately Saluted from the for tress, by a discharge of cannon, which was
returned from the vessel. — The ladies were then condu(sted on shore by   and nothing can exceed
the general pleasure and Surprise of the Surrounding multitudes, at the sight of their beloved, their amiable Prince Thal
jvieno. — With exclamations that rent the
%
air, they hailed the arrival of the royal
youth, vv’hom they had given up for lost,
and
m
and received him with all the loyalty due to his dignified rank, and exalted virtue
Nor was he wanting in a Suitable and becoming return, but received their caresses
withamost engagi ngair, .and winning
«
affability. — The news had by this time reached the pakce bf Meshna, and a Splendid retinue was dispatched to escort the prince and his companions to the royal presence— — the approach of their darling offspring, the king and queen,, attended by a brilliant train of courtiers,, went out to meet them, and received them in a manner becoming their digs


Aft r the ceremonies and congratula tions, usual on Suchi occasions were over,,
they proceeded to the palace of Druv no,, who having, ordered all to retire but his
Son
f
/
s
a
  is
r
fbn Thalmeno, thus addressed him. — • “I am wanting in words to express the gratitude I owe to an all bounteous Providence, for thus hovering over my de serted child, and bring my heir once more to my arms. — I am a doting father, fond to a folly of the only blessing given me by
heaven, when my head with age, was almost Silvered o’er. Tell me, I conjure
thee, tell me, wherefore didst thou leave thy most asteftionate parents; who cherished
thee with unequalled fondness, and
whose only care was to heap good upon
thee, and expose thyself to the mercy of
\
foreign climes, wholly unknown, and a race of beings to whom thou wert an utter stranger. Were thy parents wanting in love, or wert thou wanting in duty?”
The obedient prince, with tears of contrition, having prostrated himself at the
%
royal
100
royal feet, thus humbly and cordially replied.

Deign gracious Sire, to forgive the
4
Sallies of wandering youth, that prompted
me to leave my royal father’s court, in
quest of foreign climes, and regions distant
far from my native land. — I left you
not, from motives of disobedience, but
from an unconquerable dess re of Seeing
the manners and customs of other na
tions. — Though at that time I hatl attained
only to the age of ssstecn years,!
had travelled much in books, and read
mankind in the doubtful page of history.
This excited my curiosity to be an eyewitness
of the truth of what 1 read, nor
could anything but demonstration convince
me.
“Thus resoived, I communicated the
design to prince Palmos, who cheerfully
acquieseed


  191
acquiesced, and accompanied me in the adventurous enterprise. — Nor have we
lost by the random undertaking; having learned from experience, that, “virtue is the only nobility, and that to he gcodj is to be happy.’’ We have visited the stately mansions of princes, and the lonely cottages of hermits; we have beheld life in its Splendid and obscure state; Scenes of vice and folly have been disclosed to our view, and we have been honoured
with the Salutary admonkions and Sage
/ *
✓
counsels of virtue — Inf short, we have had a general view of men and things, and imbibed Some most important m^^aximsfor our future condudb, in that exalted Sphere of life, for which Providence Seems to have designed us. — But royal Sir, I have
gained by my travels and researches, a prize of inestimable value; a jewel beyond compare; a princess beautiful, Sage,
and
192
*.
and virtuous; possessed of every qualification, moral and personal, that can attract the eye, or charm the heart. — We
have Solemnly plighted our mutual vows,
•»
and only wait the permission of your majesty to consummate our bliss.”
i
The, good old king having most attentively listened to his Son, with tears of joy, raised him from his knees, and admiring at once his resolution, Sagacity, and virtue, most cordially embraced bim, and not only assured him of his forgiveness,
but his entire approbation of his
/
choice. With duty and gratitude, the Prince acknowledged his royal candour, and thus finished the private conference.
CHAP.
  193
t
/
CHAP. XXII
The nuptials of Thalmeno and Athelia, are magnificently fiolemnizcd^ at the court
of meffina i in the presence of their royal companions who are fumptuoufiy enters tained by Druyno. At length they depart for their refpefuve kingdomsand are made
mutually happy by the marriage upion^ and an entire possession of the hearts of
their fdbjefis.
(
HAL ME NO having given the king his father, a concise, but
striking detail of his adventures; and enlarged
particularly on the extraordinary
qualification? of the princess Athelia,
K
excited
/


19^
excited in the royal mind, a dclire of be
ing assured of her possessing Such rare perfections,
and induced him, the first opportunity,
to propose Such questions to
her as might at once Sound her genius
replies, and So stigacious and humane her
observations, that convinced at once of
the goodness, both of her head and heart;
he thought himself happy in So accomplished
a daughter; and his Son doubly
blessed in So matclilds a con Sort. The
queen likewise admired her condescension
and affability; and the whole court was
charmed with her amiable deportment.
It is therefore no matter of wonder, that
the royal pair consented to the union, and
appointed a day for the Solemnization of
their nuptuals.
The

and disposition. So pertinent were her -
1
  195
V
The joysul appointment diffused a general pleasure, and the whole palace rang
with the Sound of h a L meno and athelia— — prince with impatience imparted the happy news to his royal companions, who with ecstasy, congratulated him on the approaching bliss.

At lenghth the long wished for day arrived, and was remarkably Serene and pleasanf, as if nature by her respiendency, concurred to adorn the brilliant Scene, and stamped a mark of approbation on the union of two Such distino^uished charaflers. About noon the royal pair were conducted in Solemn pomp to the temple, where the holy rites were celebrated, in the presence of the king, queen, a numerous train of attending nobles, and a crowd of joyful applauding spectators.
J
f
K 2
After
j96
I
After the ceremony wastever, they
9
returned to the palace, and were most fumptuoussy entertained at the royal board; at which, the princes Palmos
s
and Medor, together with their intended consorts, Mersilva and Florin a, made a most magnificent and brilliant appear, and were remarkable in testifying their joy on the happy occasion.
nee.
With exquisite delight the youthful adventurers recounted their past dishcul ties, disappointments and danger, which indulgent heaven had now So amply crowned, with a reward transcending their most Sanguine wishes. No more they wander through desarts, Savage and
forlorn, nor need the hospitable aid of an anhappy princess, retired to a Solitary casile, and devoted to perpetual melancholy;

  197
choly; or the friendly assistance of a vene
%
rable hermit, Secluded from the pomp and vanity of a noisy worfd, and laudably
resigned to study, refledlion, and devotion.
No more they heave beneath the pangs of
despised love: or study under the guise of artifice to conceal a real flame of
passionate desire. No more the faithful, constant Medor flies the court of an inexorable Agenor, or fixes his abode in a Solatary cottage; where forgetting his
former dignity, he lives but to remember his lost Florin A. — No, Florin a is found, and time will shortly crown their
mutual constancy. The bliss of one pair
$■
is consummated, and that of the other approaches — Love and friendship never reigned more triumphantly, nor was Social bliss ever more abundantly imparted,
than in the present festivity. Palmos
K 3
and
igg
and Medor continued Some time after the Solemnization of the nuptuals, at the court of Meshna; and the three princes entered into the most Solemn leagues of perpetual amity; and friendly vowing to
assist each other against any hostile attempt from any foreign power, and always to
depute an embassy to each other from their Several kingdoms;
Froim the success of Thalmeno, his royal associates determined to follow his example, by repairing to their respecstive countries, prostrating at the feet of their Sovereigns, recounting their enter prize, and Soliciting the royal clemency. Accordingly, having prepared for their
departure, and taken leave of the king, queen, and court, together with their
princely companions, palmos, with his
dear
N
X

r
.
k
r
  tm dear Mersilva, embarked for Egypt,
•
< * • { * in order to advance to the palace of his
father Bli THGORA; as did Medor with his beloved Florin A, ' for Zanfara, hoping, aster So long an absence, to Sooth the
obdurate Age nor into forgiveness and' consent! An auspicious gale Soon wasted
C
the adventurous princes to their respective kingdoms and fortunes, and fortune likewise crowned their love and constancy. Palmos, who was the delight of his parents, was received with open arms',
•k
vested with his former dignities, appoint ed a Suitable retinue, and caressed much
more than before shis departure.
When they had a little recovered from the toil and fatigue of their journey from the Seacoast, which was very long and tedious, the prince presented the lovely
Mer
200
Mersilva to his royal parents; recounting
to them sher many rare endowments;
that he had protested her virtue, and
/
condudled her person, at the hazard of
his life, and therefore Solicited their approbation
of his choice, and concurrence
in his design of espousing her according
to the rites and ceremonies of his country

The king then interrogated the lady
V
as to her opinion concerning the request
of his Son; and on her blushing consent,
Gonssrmed the proposed union, and fixed
the morrow for perfedling the happiness of
the adventerous pair — who, impatient of

awaiting the long anticipated joy, counted
each hour, each minute, each moment
of the tardy gaited night, till Aurora dispelled
the Sable cloud, and ushered in the
morn
  201
morning dawn. — That auspicions day joined these constant lovers in the bands of Hymen, though they were long before united in the bond of affection. Thus then they also were completely
blessed.

r

Nor was the heart of tyre obdurate
\
Agenor So impenetrable, as tp withstand the tears and Solicitations df prostrate
beauty, of the fairmersilva entreating pardon, and his royal permission to resign her person and fortune to him, who, next to his royal Self, had the greatest title to them, even the virtuous
f
Me DOR, who had evinced his Sincerity by the most indubitable testimonies; and whom providence had appointed her mighty deliverer from ssavery, as well as
the
202
the valiant protector of her chastity. The once indexible king now recoiled at the
representation of his daughter, nor hefi tatcd to comply with her importunate request. Me DOR and Flor IN A were therefore made one., and their attachment was cemented by an inviolable and mutual
vv'’e now at length find virtue and
friendship amply rewarded in these three
illustrious pair, who lived loving each
other, and beloved of all around them,
till death Summoning their aged parents to pay the debt of nature, they Succeeded
to their thrones, and long enjoyed the
greatest blessing of princes, which is, to
reign in the hearts of their people.
\
FINIS
\



/
I


\
X
\



H,


h ^
‘ > ^ ^ i
>:; st. '^.
\ •
7
it

^nser - f^e'ndemhall. Ctar « -■
‘"i
/ /'
♦ y
/

r,
, \

if

^ /
V
rr
/ :

I
\

f V,
•c.y
yr

/

/


\
‘ V (

r'

f ?•

_
t<y^

A;;. '
. • - >
->
^ ' : jl ^, y '
