E Lloyd, 
Rhagatt.
*
\
THE
'f
T R IN K E Ti
A
N O V E L
}
By A L A D y.
I
S
\
/
LONDON,
Printed for T. Lowndes, No. 77. in Fleet-street.
MDCCLXXIV.

\
THE
4
T R I N K E T.
%
>
L E T T E R I.
Miss Seaton to Lady Eliza Beau
*

INDEED, my Eliza, it is imposii ble to overcharge the picture •, lady Amelia is truly original •, and her Swain had furnished a fairer sub je(5t for romance, than any wandering hero of antiquity. Acflon Hall, our present habitation, you would Swear had been for many centuries the fa tot. I. B vourite
1
I
, 2
f
vourite receptacle of distressed damsels.
A mote, a drawbridge, and a mastiff have continued for ages a protection to the fair inhabitants. The walk .are overgrown with ivy j nor are the vestiges of time less conspicuous within the mansion. You are then in poffesiion of the very retirement you wished; your situation perfectly romantic.” — True., my Eliza; and solitude’s the nurse of grief. — This aw full stilness — * the distant waterfall — the crickets dirge;; what do they but rouse resieclion, and renew ideas alas! too fondly cherished : Surely my friend, ’tis lawful to indulge the virtuous Sorrow, to recollect the best of parents — to recall his dying words, when preoing my hand to his Scarce beating heart, “My Emma, Said the expiring Saint, you have still a father, ” and Sunk lifeless on his pillow. Vainly have you endeavoured to disclose Some latent meaning j your wandering
Sancy,
k
i
T II e . 3
fancy, ever on the wing in search of happiness for Emma, must still return unsatisfied from every fond excursion. You know, my dear girl, even at school, how widely different our tempers; I never considered things fluctuating on the stream of time as proper objects of attention; not able to unriddle the secrets of futurity, I borrowed oareleffness from mystery : and though I might frequently lose the pleasure of anticipated delight, I knew not to torment myself with fancied dreams of Sorrow. I am certain you will, as usual, laugh at what you term my want of penetration; be it So, for I confess I See no other allusion but to the hand of Omnipotence. Yes, my much loved parent, your Emma has still a Father, exempt from sickness, Sorrow, change, or death; it is that Father, who raised me friends in misfortune, and taught content to rear her
B 2 stands
0
«
♦
4
standard even in the regions of affliction.
But you are, perhaps, impatient to be introduced to my young friend; you Say you are prepared to love her for her kindness to your Emma; yet, believe me, were you acquainted with the engaging girl, her unastuming merit would gain the greatest share of that friendship, you kindly flatter me I have long poffesied unrivalled. — In Fanny Sydney is all the Sweet domes tic softness, the amiable Solicitude for others happiness, which can Spring from a heart, tender, benevolent, never agitated by disappointment, or triumphantly exulting in Superiorcharms: she is naturally lentimental j in con versing with her, a thousand new ideas agreeably surprise you, and a more than female sostness receives additional graces from the Sprightly Sallies of an untutored imagination. — Pity this amiable girl should be So entirely
depen
I
 5
dependent on the caprices of lady Amelia : these old maiden aunts still continue to their female expectants the Same tyrannic austerity, which they would persuade us was necessary to check the ardors of an adoring crowd, — Mr. Sydney is shortly expected; he is about three and twenty, and in pos sesiion of an unincumbered estate of eight hundred a year. Lady Acton dotes upon her nephew, and declares him, if he marries with her approbation, foie heir to her immense wealth. Fanny calls — I sty — to admire a nest of wood pigeons or friez land hen.
LETTER II
%
Lucius Sevigny, Esq. to Augustus
Sydney, e/y..
TILL you have the goodness Sydney to read what I shall write to you, that I may have the consola
B 3 tion
't
t 4
6
tion of having communicated' a fewi ideas to one rational being; for, upon my honour, except Belvidera Finchley, ^ there is not Such a thing within twenty miles of this place. — And yet, that Belvidera has Spoiled the only rational plan of amusement, my genius, darkened by these venerable shades, has atr chieved since it has been enveloped, here— — faith, there is a very pretty girl in the neighbourhood, whom I. had just marked for my own;. as L conceived by her distressed circumstances and pallid locks, that her Seducer, actuated by Some jealous love ^ fit, had boarded her in the village. — »• My plan went on divinely, the echoes had learned the Soft Sounds of Sevigny, and all had been well; when the abovementioned gentlewoman having. heard of my visits, by her Sober lec -- tures, and her goodness— — Patty, calls it — overturned the whole fabric
» 4»
I had been rearing, persuaded the rich;
miss.
f
/
m
%
/
t
 y
miss she 1 ives with, to take her into her house, and I cannot tell you what, — Convinced the girls would expect:
me to look foolish the next time I ac
%
• /
them, I determined on disappointing them, — and meeting Belvi -- dera on horseback, accompanied but by a Servant, “Ah! my dear miss Finchley, Said I, how fortunate this rencontre, I have been dying these two days to congratulate you on the new oshce you have undertaken — consestbr' • — and let me See — protector too, of *uirgm innocence with a Sarcastic accent.
How, replied she, upon my word'
I don’t understand you.” “No, I dare Say you don’t — — why yes, I always thought the Magdalen house a very' pretty institution, but the poor girl, L suppose, — no friends belonging to the
charity.” —
“If Mr. Sevigny, you mean the pleasure I have been So fortunate to
B 4 acquire
8 .
acquire miss Darcy, in the company of —. “Oh lord! Oh lord! I beg
your pardon, cried I, I beg your pardon; far be it from me to lefien so exquisite a Satisfaction — good morning to you I did not before totally comprehend your good fortune.” — And turning down a lane which led me home, was met by my Servant, who told me there was a person waiting for me with a letter— — my astonishment when, on breaking the Seal, I found it signed by my old schoolfellow Harlowe : figure to yourself my feelings,., when I there saw it was his lister whom I had endeavoured to seduce from the before unforsaken paths of virtue. lit seems the girl had, for the only imprudent thing she had ever done, quitted her mother’s house, who was trying to prevail on her to marry a rich old fellow but she had fixed her heart upon a handsome' young one; whose uncle however, would not let
him
%
T HE  0
him marry without S thousand poundsj^ to clear a debt he contracted in the folly of a youthful frolic, that done, he would give him up a farm of three hun -- dred a year: the thing was impossible— — Harlowe had but a Scanty jointure; and her Son, honest Jack, found a commistion in the army brought with' it as many expenses as it could Supply. Importuned by her lovers, teased by au avaricious old woman — she quitted’ them all, and retired to that placo w'here my. evil genius led me, Har * lowe’s'letter was to tell me the situa ' tion in which he had Sound affairs on his return from foreign quarters : that from a friend of his sister’s he had learned her retreat— — it was' in ouf neighbourhood — knew me So' generous 1 would undertake to prevail on her to return to her friends, who would welcome her with rapture, c See. Fired with gratitude to the noble: Finchley, I ordered my horses, and
B it om
10 T R 1 M K E T.
on my arrival at Mr. darcy’s, had the good fortune to meet her in the hall: the sensations of Jaffier rushed upon my mind, and Seizing her hand, “Oh,. Belvidera, doubly Tm a beggar j undone by fortune, and in debt to thee.’^ ‘ Observing my unfeigned emotions, she. started, ** Good heavens, Mr. sevig r.y, ” — I put an end to her astonishment by giving her the letter. But L shall Surfeit you with narration. Suffice' it, I feel for the first time the deficiency of fortune; I must hit upon some means to make those happy,, whom my gaiety had, but for miss finchley, besore now rendered for; ever miserable. As to my lady grand motlier, she has not an idea beyond a
*
church — or a card table — — I dare Say she would pray very heartily to God,, that he would bless miss harlowe with a thousand pounds; nor would' she cheat her of a red ace — nay, perhaps even of a matadore, for the Indies,
#
T u E tr'inketc II
dies. But to give her the sum — thc' “Lord help Such narrow Souls.
, - - - - -. I r -
letter III
_ w
Augustus Sydney, j^.'^c lijcrus "
sevigny'.
London'
JJ'YT on you, Sevigny; you injure ' my friendship,, - to know my abi • lily and not command it. I inclose a draught on my banker for a thousand pounds, which I insist on your making " use of as you please : nor fear distressing, me; lady Amelia lavishes upon"’ me the gifts of fortune To profusion 5 and I consider myself as unspeakablyl indebted to you, for the Satisfaction ct having asiisted any one So nearly connected with a young fellow I always ' thought So highly of as Harlowe. As
B 6 ' t
0 ^
f
12 .
to the girl, I am only astonished Mist Finchley popp’d in time enough; solitude and Such a lover as Sevigny — I thought no garrison could have sos tained the siege a week. I am afraid the Sober matrimonial Swain will appear but hum drum after it. — A pro.. humdrum— — I am astonished you have the patience to Submit to that enperpetually. We have the most divine routine you can conceive, and wish continually your wit and elegance of conversation; I know of nothing elfe to render it complete. But, after all, do be So good to stay where you are. Such an animated fellow as you — — ah, we have ail in our turn found the imposhbility of contending with you. — Mon dieuy Charles Willmott, arid another or two, have been waitine for me this half hour; but I could not reconcile myself to the idea of deferring for one post, my just
re
/
 . ij
reproaches, for your want of confix dence in.
Dear Sevigny,.
Your ever faithful'
Augustus Sydne\>
♦
LET T E R IV
Lady Eliza Beauclerk, to miss
Sea tonne..
O ¥/ prithee, child, from what ‘ new discovered colony was thy ' last letter dated? a drawbridge, a
mastiff, and old maid; I was absolutely in the vapours: ** Here Betty bring the Sal volatile, and order this paper to be printed in the next marvellous chronicle: ” but at the glimpse of a beau near the bottom of your page, away stew vapours, essences, and and Spleen. Your Pastor Fido ist suppose,. by this, time - arrived : well
heaven.
4
■ The T'rt n"ke Ti
heaven be praised, this is as it shoumi' be; that pretty face must again try its’ power in charming; and let me tell you, Emma, when you are Mrs. Sydney, and have pulled down those old mouldering walls, hung the mastiff, and the old maid, Acton Hall will be a perfect Arcadia. Prithee, my good girl, try your hand at description; there, * is. Something extremely laughable in the well painted follies of thetortu nate, and Thave known one of these envied beings shed more tears for the loss of a linnet, a coach horse, or ^ tippet, than my Emma, when mis fortune, like a pestilential blast, Swept off her opening bloom of happiness; The castle is at present crowded with inhabitants, yet, I dare not declare myself Surrounded by companions t notwithstanding Mr. Beauclerk is perpetually discovering Some agreeable
I
attraction, of latent good quality in > every individual. Surely, my dear, it
isl
\
t
i
I
T W E t rt n k e t 15 ■;
is a mark of understanding, to view every object in the most agreeable " light, and there is a certain elevated -;. benevolence necestary to behold whato is amiable in others, which little minds want.. Never did your friend So much ■
/ feel her inferiority to be unmoved with repeated endeavours to divert, ' as de • insensibility but we are Seldoih pleased when we are made to Seel the weight of obligations — when we are ^ given to understand we should be Sensible of them; and, My Eliza are you not yet happy; ” has distipated ^ many pleasing visions. — Good God,, are these the Sentiments of my friend - — and can she be thus ungrateful Be not astonished, Emma; you, who are used to trace every pashon to its Source, cannot be ignorant that the highest pleasure arises from accidental
r
occurrences, and is never farther off' than when we meet to Seek it. — Hea • vens, what a dissertation!!
indeed, ^,,
0
• t
rs The T r i n k e t
indeed, to banish the goddess I attempt to disregard. — We are to have a dance tonight in the Saloon; most of the neighbouring gentry are invited, and we have here lord M —, Mr. Elford, Sir Charles Waybridge, miss Montagues, lady Caroline, miss Lennox, and your old acquaintance Mrs. Dixon. — Fie, Emma, what a description of my intended aunt, ‘‘ Proud, envious, and deceitful.” — bless me,, child, with what eyes didst thou regard her; the very picture of humility; she would stoop even to worship, the ground I tread on; I have heard her contradict herself twenty times in a breath, 'in compliance with lady Caroline; and who shall Say she is not a above that low envy, which delights iiv depreciating those of her Sex, who boast Superior graces; since none more clearly perceives, or more readily admits their charms; but our Mrs. Dix -- Qii carries her justice still higher, and.
wisely
/
The T r I n k e t. ly
wisely considering these fair ones Sufficiently distinguished by the Smiles of nature, she reserves her favours for the awkward, the rich, the fortunate; nor is there a Spark of envy in this; she is of opinion that beauty everywhere finds shelter. I am interrupted — Adieu.
‘ ■ ■ ■ T- -- — - I -- I - T rt -
LETTER V
Augustus Sydney to Sir George
Danvers...
'ELL— — I had but a good benefice in my gift, i’d make it a. condition, when the reverend father was introduced, that he should insert in the Litany,
From maiden aunts, aitd antiquated manjions. Good Lord deliver us.
And yet in truth Danvers, green fields and shady groves are npt the odious things I thought them the Same old
geais

*
gentlewoman has planned, and my kind stars have perfected, the most' pleasurable scheme— — to methodise my thoughts — a thing that, George, in which you must confess me uncommonly successsul: it was about eight o’clock when I arrived, of course a delightful evening, — the country
V
“A Snow of bloltoms, and a wild of flowers.’*
Fanny knew me at a distance, and ran out to meet me, “My dear brother! how am L rejoiced to see you.” — We embraced, and (he conducted me to the dresiing room— — Acton received me with pleasure; and I was listening to my sister’s entertaining prattle, when an elegant female entered the apartment j a small chip hat nightly Shaded the most animated countenance. Fanny rose, and taking me by the hand, “miss Seaton, give me leave to introduce my brother — Sydney, receive my friend.” I
approached to salute hcr> muttered
\
Some
/

T HE T RINK E T. - 19?
ibmething of unexpected happiness— — a look in the glass — the disorder of my hair — — with the agreeable Surprise, had given an additional glow to my complexion -- -- -- -- yet
the gypsy was unmoved with my ap -- pearance, and rcgeived my compliment with great unconcern : — it was not to be endured and vowing ven -- geance on the little rustic, I threw myself upon the Sofa, complained of being fatigued— — roads were intolerable — — Solicitude for my aunt’s health; and the apprehension that too much retirement' might affect her Spirits,, had induced me to attend her but had I known She had Such agreeable company, (bowing to miss Seaton) my return had been for a short
•.
time retarded. Lady Amelia inquired where my tormen ting in Sensible had, been strolling, /* in the grove, madam,
I: never Saw it more delightful.” — >»►* And your resiections, miss Seaton,
criedi.
1
20
cried I; come, confess the happy object that engrosied them.” ** The object that claimed my attention, sir, has no connexion with the epithet you bestow, ” — She said; and vanished. — Mighty prudent this, and her slight a modest conseshon that she felt her danger. O, you are certainly all impatience, to learn what peculiar beauties this fair one boasts; but really George, it is impossible I should inform you, for in the truly comprehensive phrase“ “beggars all description.”
When she appears, all nature halls the Spring,
And warbling birds their sportive carols sing.’*^
Ha, ha, ha! admirable.
“Like Phoebus Sung the no.less. amorous boy,. Like Daphne she,, lovely and as coy.”
If her sentiments are as delicate as her form, I shall consider my heart a tribute to her merit; but to the impressions of mere beauty, no Stoic can
be.
\
 zi
be more insensible— — informs me the fair unfortunate has lately lost a father, and with him each flattering expectation. Forced through some unaccountable fatality to change hk name, and fly his country, with all the ihoney he postested, he purchased annuities, which ceased with his life.
f
He was naturally expensive; and fondly floating on his daughter, he spared no expense on her education, her house, her dress, or her attendants,; they lived up to their little income, and on his decease miss Seaton found herself destitute. Fanny flew to her, on hearing the melancholy news : an affectionate friendship had fubsisted between these amiable girls from infancy. She endeavoured to prevail on the dear sufferer to quit the hoase of mourning; but all entreaties were ineffectual, and she .continued there till the remains of her parent were deposited in the grave: the
friends
i
N «
%
I
I
I
T 'H E T R T N "K. e t.
I
■friends have been since infeparablo. Heavens! you may discover my solitary situation in my style— — strangely unlike your
Sydney;
LETTER VI
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza Beau
• '

^ I'HIS redoubtable hero is at length
arrived, and lady Eliza once more mistaken. Pray, my dear friend, '■of what combustible materials did you imagine your emma’s heart com posed, that it should catch fire at every ** light gay meteor of a Spark ?” I grant Mr. Sydney handsome, his person nobly engaging, and in his conversation, is “humour, wit, a native air and grace; ” and yet I behold him approach with indifference; he leaves me, and I do not regret his absence;; reasons, and I can think his princi
6 pies
9
\
 23
pies ill-founded, and his conclusions erroneous; I can be serious when he laughs, and laugh when he is serious. Sir Harry Edgerton, a particular in tit mate of Mr. Sydney, has been with us some days: : it would be difficult to conceive a more prepoffesting appearance; he carries a letter of recommendation in his countenance; and it is impossible to look at, and not esteem him. His address is easy and unaffected; and his conversation, always instructive, is enlivened with a certain native chearfulness. Lady Amelia as fured me last night, this man, in my idea so perfect, had yet a fault : Ah, my Eliza! can then excess of virtue “rise to faults, ” and the exuberance of humanity become a failing?
“Sincere himself, and too Secure to find The common bosom, like his own, fincere.’’
His heart and time are become the property of the unhappy j and distress
is
■$?4 The T R i n k e t.
is an indilputable title to his fortune From the peculiar tenderness of hi manners, one would imagine he had felt the sorrow he relieves; and there is an engaging foftness in his carriage when he addrestes a woman, that speaks our sex the cause of his afilic tion. Since his arrival, our little coterie is become infinitely more interesting. Mr. Sydney is extremely attentive to him, and every day Seems to increase their friendship: could you have believed it postible, this young man, all frolic, life, and gaiety, declares he never is So happy as in his Edgertonst company. Where shall we find a clearer proof, that parity of inclinations is not estential to the union of souls; and that the strongest friendships are cemented between people of contrary dispositions — sydney’s excessive vivacity is tempered by the Sentimental conversation of his alsociate; and Sir harry’s instructive
cheer
 zg
chearfulness appears with additional charms, contrasted with the levity of his friend. Lady amelia’s swain thought proper to leave the neighbourhood upon her nephew’s arrival: strange, that a woman of her age 'should give the siightest encouragement; yet Fanny affures me he has long sighed at her feet; and as nurses terrify their charge with bugbears, lady Amelia listens to the wretch she despises, to quicken her sydney’s ash ■duity. Though gay, luxurious, expensive, and convinced his fiender patrimony cannot Support him in the life he loves, he ridicules the old lady’s peculiarities, and laughs at her admirer. We pass the rosy bo som’d hours” in variety of rural pleasures, and have the most enchanting concerts in the grotto. miss Sydney is perfect mistress of music, and strikes the harpsichord with great taste; I
frequently accompany her with the
"Vox.. L 0 guittar^
i
26 The T r I n k e t.
guittar, Sir Harry plays the violoncello, and Mr. Sydney excels upon the flute. We are preparing for one this evening; Lady Amelia is engaged; and Fanny, in gaitee de coeur, warbles her native wood notes wild” beneath my window. — Ah, I see her wdth Sir Harry! they turn down the walk leading to the grotto; adieu, I go to join them.
V » _
In Continuation.
u
I expected to find Fanny and ed gerton in the grotto, and ran in with a sprightly air, intending to chide them for leaving me. — — I started, surprised .to see Mr. Sydney alone, in a melancholy attitude : I would have withdrawn, but he arose, and seizing my hand, Tell me, miss Seaton, why nature formed those beauties, and denied the gift that should accompany them — a feeling heart?” Fortunately for me, our friends entered the grotto :
2 the
0
\
X
 27
/
the Surprise, his apparent thoughtful ness, quickly changed to the most animated appearance, left me incapable of reply. — Edgerton, said he, we have waited for you this age; the instruments are in tune, allons doncp and pressing my hand, which he still held, to his heart, with they gayest air imaginable he warbled
You first have taught me how to love.
Ah teach me to be happy too.”
The instruments were however soon laid down, and after a Short time the conversation became Spirited on all sides: it fell on the old topic, the levity of females, and inconstancy in love and friendstiip., Mr. Sydney rallied our follies and trifling peculiarities with infinite pleasantry, We proved the gentlemen overcharged the picture, and spoke worse of us than we deserved, and we triumphed over the accusation, by lestening the credit of the accusers, — “In all ages, Eliza, wife
C 2 and
%
%
28 The T r I N K E T.
and malice have been employed in inventions detrimental to the fair; and if the men are not equally ridiculed, it must Surely be, that their faults are So conspicuous, there is no ingenuity in exposing them.
\
LETTER VII
%
miss Finchley to miss Melville.
leavens!! expire with ennui:
thirty miles from the metropolis, and not a pretty fellow to dissipate the melancholy reflection! commend me to your Sober damsels, who, to prove their domestic virtues, are eloquent in commendation of tufted groves,
O ^
flowering lawns, c. beauties, in my opinion, then only charming, when pointed out by an enlivening swain, who post'estes the happy art of saying agreeable things, and Swearing
“The whitest lilies to our beauties yield.”
miss
4
 . 29
miss Darcy, on the contrary, finds no failure of amusement— — Souli the contemplation of that Sweet person never wearies. Thus lovely, she
w'
would inspire she knows not what : while flattery Soothes, it pleases, it de lights her, it clothes in words her Sole ideas, and gives her back the image of her joind : — a Smart coat, a cockade, a. shoulder knot, or a pair of red heels add irresistible douceurs to admiration. Would you not imagine this girl, immured with her father,, mother, and my ladystiip, languishes Sora compliment — no Such thing; sels applause is a Substitute, by habit become familiar. — bless me, my watch informs me his past the toilet hour, and we are engaged this evening at lady Amelia acton’s — a most delectable visit; our hopeful entertainment anecdotes of the past, rendered more palatable by curious reflections on the woeful degeneracy,
C 3 while
30
while what will the world come to, ” is echoed, from the Sage matron to the venerable Spinster. Ah, how I abominate the idea.
4
In Continuation.
Quite enlivened, child j no Solitude,, yawns, or dejection; papa looks pro digiousiy important, mama simpers,, and miss vows ’tis strange, ** his pasting strange” - — strange indeed — A 'man, Lucy, — buc^ri’ a man | — Imagine us Seated at lady Acton's — the Servant brought the tea table, and it was followed by (happy Darcy) a well drested youth : lady Amelia introduced her nephew; my friend alternately examined her gown, her ruf files, and her headdress with apparent triumph.
Augustus (in company with four,, let me tell you, no despicable females) appeared with astonishing indifference;, compiimerited Darcy, laughed with
I
. 31
me, and Smiled on the insinuating miss Seaton: no grand Turk was ever more at ease, or less disconcerted, than the well-bred Sydney, Our old Solks prolonged the visit: their charlotte’s charms must fix the wanderer; she thought So too, and when the carriage was announced, Swam off elated with her conquest: he handed her to it, and Swore Acton Hall would appear a desert in her absence. — This was irresistible, and Sydney has usurped the vacancy in her discourse: : fortunate were this change, could boundaries be Set to praise: : to ljccom mendations, and you would execrate him, as the only adequate revenge for the tedious harangue politeness obliged you to attend to :, hear her paint the charms of love, and you would abjure the fond connexion. She is a kind of echo to the passions, which, did not others talk of, she were wholly unacquainted with, and too trifling for fen
C 4 timent;
32
timent; the feelings she expresses are to be found only on her tongue.
This is your belvidera’s friend — ah, his to profane the title : these females tci eeq love, but, believe me, they are incapable of friendship. The exultation of conquest,, and the tumult of applause, charms the imagination the pride of retaining the lover raises. us in our own opinion; we become important, and feel a.partiality for him who has taught us to respect ourselves.
The basis of friendship is esteem tender, mild, disinterested, it derives stability .' from its foundation; - — we borrow life and courage from the attachment;, we endeavour to imitate, perfections we admire;, and we love ourselves, because we are dear to our friends. This, Lucy, is a pashon i vainly attempt to define;. but, believe me, when I think of you, my, bosom burns with she tendered sentiments it in Spires,
LET

T HE T R LN K E 33
9
LET E R Vin.
I
Sir George Danvers to Augustus
Sydney, esq.
Cloe found Amynfas lying All in tears upon the plain.”
TJA! ha!. ha! my poor Sydney,.
sighing, despairing, dying! faith,. Augustus, you are a happy fellow; and. while you divert yourself with your fair recluse, a club of choice spirits lament your absence, and a crowd of beauties languish for your return. — I. met the duchess of — —, and lady Mary last night at Vauxhall. — ** Is your friend, still at Acton, Sir George?. Strange, that So very fine a fellow.. should absent himself from the Park,, picquet, and these dear gardens, immured, I dare Swear, with a parrot, a; monkey,, and a maiden aunt.”
C 5 “Really,,
0
\
34 T E T R 1' N K E T...
** Really, ladiep, Mr.. Sydney ih happier than you. imagine no wonder the budding spring, and the more blooming charms of beauty, Should captivate a man of his exquisite taste.”
Ha! ha! ha! now, dear Sir George, pray inform us what pretty rustic engrostes his attention; his aunt’s milkmaid. i’ll answer for it; or
4 •
perhaps Some tenant’s daughter claims the distingulhing preeminence“
“madam, were I to describe the charmer in sydney’s rapturous expression,, ladyship might accuse me of insanity, or think Shad Scaled; : Olympus to catch the fair idea.”
“No more excuses, cried the duchess; here, Danvers, you may rave. with impunity.”
Agreed, Said I,, catching her hand, tell me, thou charmer,, whence had’st thou those brilliant eyes — thia Soft, white hand ?”
Wretch !-
V
4
/
I
 35
r
** Wretch! you were to have described Mr. sydney’s fair one.”
“Impossible: : has your height your lips, your cheeks, but wants a thousand nameless graces you can. boast.”
“And she loves your friend
“No, madam, she were then evea* your Superior; always Sure to please t the friendly deity arms your sex with new alurements, points every charm,, and you are doubly irresistible when you have learned to love.”
A Science that, Danvers, in which; she could not have an abler tutor; on.', my word; Venus Sent him into the world with Sull power to reduce all. rebels to her standard.”
And i’ll lay my life, said lady
Mary, she has not a more active ge^ neral.”
He bien mon pauvre solitaire!
Is the fair Seaton yet enlisted?'
Why, what a rout with that same animation
/
3^
mation : show me the woman that cam be inanimate and a Sydney by hec fide : her coldness must be pretended,, mere affectation; and, like chapmen, who praise she goods they would dis pofc of, she would persuade you her heart is invulnerable, to enhance the value when she yields it— —, Sydney, introduce your charmer; the woman must have indeed “no character at all” who, in the time you have been acquainted,, has not discovered Some leading traits. Direct your next letter to me at L — — —. II shall go there tomorrow, and propose being absent about a.week. It must
he Something Superior to the beauty of the woods that can prolong my stay : a sprightly widow, a fine girl,, or a society of beaux esprit, are three ir resistibles, and share among them the heart; she Soul and person of
Your
George Danvers,.
r
Th’e  . 3;! “
X E T T E R IK.
Augustus.sydney to Sir George
Danvers..
A stonishingi upon my soul,,
very astonishing 1” -^ — What the devil have you got now, Sydney? methinks you cry — why saith the most furprisihg* — hatch of turkeys — The old damsel has been with me, in her little black bonnet, India handkerchief, and toed clogs (those insignias of her poultry feeding, department) with as much joy as that weatherbeaten phiz of her’s is capable of expresiing, recounting the marvellous transaction — “Never thought of her fitting” — “So early too” — God bless her, if I did. not really imagine she had stumbled upon one of her old love letters; ■ — ^tho’ to do her jus tice, I believe all she ever received’ are
Safe
%
'T HT t’r i n k e t.
*
Safe in her rose wood cabinet. — I remember one day that I had made some excellent hit in her Scriptural, style, and could perceive I. was in high favour with the venerable Spinster —
“Nephew,. Says she, extending her Spectacles in one hand, while she laid' down her work in the other — Northeast -- phew, I am am going to fetch — the: rent roll of an estate, thought I, to be: Sure; as she opened the door — but' no — she returned, holding out am epistle to me, Here, Said she with; an air of exultation, here is a letter
from the late celebrated lord L -- -- -- -^
received at a time of life, when nothing but the most determined resolution never to marry, could have prevented my falling a prey to Some one of my numerous admirers.” — I was too much mortified to Smile, as I should at any other time have done,. and perused the contents with the ut must seriousness: It was really clever,,
indeed,.
i H E T R I N IC E T. 3qi
N
indeed, madam, Said I, as I finished;
it; I could have Sworn Such a letter as that, had been Sufficient to have Sent: half your Sex to the devil.” - — “Nephew, returned she, (too much pleased with the compliment to herself, to re — Sent the sarcasm on, her Sex) I hope" you will not deny there is one womzn,., who could not be deceived: — Oh,., added she bridling, if you knew all the; : pains that have been taken you would own” — that my good genius presided over your inclination, interrupted I — • confess now, I continued,, that you: had a presentiment you. was to have a ncphew, who would be the most elegant Scllow in the kingdom — ah, L am persijaded nothing else could have induced you to continue that goodly state you have chosen. She Smiled at; my impudence; but really I am afraid it is more than you will compliment me with. What shall I tell you then? — that Some of cur neighbours Spent
yesterday
4q ’
yesterday with us — a Mr. Darcy of large fortune — an only daughter — — who, as I pass here Sora very Sober fellow, he wouldbe glad to marry to my worship — his estate lies So Snug to my aunt’sthen I believe the girl,, (Charlotte I think he calls her) would have no Sort of objection to the connexion— — fond of me — but. vain, foolish,, and affected — I think, they Say she is pretty; may be So. — -■ She has no merit in my eyes however, but what arises from the choice. of her companion; a young woman of a good, but unfortunate family, very deservedly a favourite, with the dam lels here.
Yes, Emma has indeed discovered' Some leading traits; and her’s is a, character the Sex should be proud to imitate. — The beauties of her mind, are far beyond the reach of my pen to describe. With a heart tenderly awake to every emotion of Sensibility,
fire.
 41
she poffestes a fortitude a Stoic might be proud to boast. — Generous without ostentation, her pleasure in giving is lestened only by the regret her ability will extend no further: — benevolent from constitution as well aa principle, she would Soften the foibles of others into virtues — and Seems Sensible to in Sure only that she may rise still more Superior, in the sorgiveness of it. — With a. chearfulness of disposition, which renders her witty with the gay,. Serene with the Serious, Satire never could extort her Smile, and there needs but that the apostle’s prediction should be fulfilled in this world, instead of the next. With what measure you mete, it Shall be measured to you againfe for Emma to be perfectly adored.. Modest without prudery — polite without affectation, — — she has found the art to unite the utmost elegance of
modern education, with every domes?
tia
4
42 .
tic virtue for which our grandmother would celebrate the antedeiuvian fair. In a composure of Soul, which can arise only from conscious goodness, she finds consolation under the keenest strokes of adversity, — and welcomes affliction as the humble friend of virtue : on the contrary, Sensible to the siightest approach of good fortune, yon see pleasure dancing in her eye sincerity and sweetness are her constant attendants, and add a grace equally to the altar or the drawing-room.
Such then is the character I love,. Such is the companion, the friend, thc' mistress I would chuse. How often; have I laughed in my sieeve, when I have called a woman an angel, whose. face to be Sure might be pretty, (So. may a devil’s, for, begging the gentlemen of the pencil’s pardon, who that: has the power attributed to those Spirits, would not employ it to render, their appearance pleasing) when her
senti?v
 43
Sentiments were diabolical enough to Suit the character in its fallen state. It is Such a disposition as miss seaton’s
that partakes of the divinity, — the transition of her mind from this state to the other, would indeed be easy. — Hey day! the devil take it, if these musty walls, and wmrrn eaten Solios, have not absolutely metamorphosed the gay, the agreeable Augustus Sydney, into as dull a fellow, as the veriest preacher of them all. — Thia - state — and the other! ha! ha! ha! you cannot be more astonished than I am ' myself; though, to say the truth, I have for Some time been afraid, if this dainty damsel should continue much longer upon these earthly premises, she would ruin me Sora fine gentleman. — — What can I do? — I yawn eternally — then hum a Scrap of Italian, swear a few oaths in some other language lest the antiques here should take the alarm. — la short, Danvers, this existence
44 T ir E
ence is v/orse than death — is this to' live } no — for am I not dead to every joyous sensation — the feathered, and the four footed inhabitants of this mouldering mansion are on a par with me — they eat,., and drink, and steep and Sydney does no more. What is become of those jovial hours you and. I have rattled away together; Oxford,., the dear metropolis,, and a. thousand other places, recollect our names aa the gayest of our Sex. — And here, by. Jove, when my aunt does leave me her estate. She may as well order me. her bonnet,, her petticoats, and her Spectacles to exhibit in, and Till engage no. one finds the difference. — Isle idea is excellent; a month ago, the gallant, gay Lothario — a month hence,
God of his infinite mercy grantfi a venerable piece of starched virginity.,
I leave, however, my neighbours in the lurch; the young ladies pro posed making a party to drink tea at
the
>
The T r 1 n k e t. 45
•the summerhouse in the wood; the chits knew I must attend them, for it was not safe to go unescorted; and the elder part of the company would fear taking cold, as it would be late before their return. My whistcy was brought to the door — miss Darcy jumped into it; — not So neither, thought I, a tete-a-tete with you must be the devil. — miss Finchley the fatigue will be too much for you, will you undertake to drive miss Darcy? — miss Seaton, my sister, and I will walk.” — She mounted accordingly, and the rage in charlotte’s countenance gave me no Small Satisfaction. — They had not gone more than half a mile, when Finchley, who by the way was as much diverted as myself, declared her companion Snatched the reins out of her hand, pretended apprehension of her driving too near a tree, and instantly overturned the chair. Fictitious fainting fits fiic
ceeded '
46 The T r I n k e t.
ceeded on miss darcy’s part, unaffected laughter on miss finchley’s. Such attitudes— — — much languid tenderness— — you would have been demolished — for my part, I did carry her in my arms back to the bouse, be cause I was obliged to it; but I was all the while continuing a conversation, I was persuaded she could hear, with the other girls, whom I forced into it, for they were all of them too. •good natured to enjoy a folly So evident. miss Soon recovered however,
■' — could not think of breaking up the party— — aunt’s coach therefore was ordered; and we proceeded in mighty good-humour, with the addition of papa Darcy, to take care of his daughter.
The ladies Sung, Charlotte did not execute amiss, and requested my performance. “Oh, Said I, you have hit upon what I shall comply with the best in the world — do you chuse the first part of the last cotillion, or
yawn
J’
t
4
.  47
^syawning) any of the turns in the new opera.” - —
“Plhaw, said She, tapping my shoulder, have you found any tune yet, to Suit those words, which I am persuaded, are perpetually in your idea.
Horace still charms with graceful negligence.” ^ — “Yes, madam, returned I, bowing, the tune of all my actions.” — Quelle bagatelle! but I have introduced you to my companions; you have no right therefore to expect anything better at present from
, Your
i
Augustus Sydney.
4
LET
1
4
*
« \
4b The T R I n k e t
LETTER X
Sir Harry Edgerton to Edward
Willis, esq.
your last letter gave me infinite concern — “the weakness of your temper Sir Harry, lays you open to perpetual imposition; your fortune •cannot answer these frequent demands; the extravagant, the profligate, and the luxurious, are by you enabled to continue in their crimes, and triumphing in iniquity, laugh at the mistaken benevolence that Supports them.” — Tell me, Mr. Willis, who Shall fix the boundaries of virtue? and what power beneath omniscieiice, restrain the tendered charity? your Edgerton had rather be the dupe of a thousand artifices, than through the fear of being Imposed on, fail to rescue misery from distress : the honest glow of heartfelt gratitude, the artless fondness of lisping

. 49
sng infancy, and one blefiing from the lips of faltering age, amply atone the folly you accuse. Heaven hath fixed me in unlimited abundance, and while
i
I can restore my estate unincumbered to the next posifestor, the yearly income I will dispofe of. Let us then wave the Subject; and believe, my Willis, there is an impertinence even in friendship, when it would too rigidly control the harmless bias of the mind. I shall See you in a few days, as, notwithstanding my young friend is Solicitous that I should continue
with him, my destined journey cannot
be deferred;) and I should deem myself inexcusable, could any inducement prevail on me to leave England without embracing you— — has not Sound Acton Hall the desart he expected 5 his agreeable Sister, and in bis idea a still fairer inhabitant, enliven the joyous hours. There never was a man so entirely master of all that vol. L D can
'V
» ^ ■
50
can Softly win, or gaily charm, the heart of woman and I tremble for the amiable Seaton, against whom these insinuating graces are exerted. On my first arrival, she treated him with an unreserved Samiliarity, that Spoke the pleased companion, the Sprightly friend, unactuated by any soster pashon : but, I know not how, our little parties have insensibly degenerated from that enlivening freedom. - — She blushes at his unexpected appearance, and fearful that I should have observed the artless testimony of her affection, her cheeks are again suffused with crimson. — For Sydney, I wish to See him sincerely, honourably in love; a constant, generous attachment to a deserving object, by giving stability to his desires, and correcting that excessive gaiety, too apt to sink itself in levity, would render him the most perfect of his Sex. By the best of tutors the precepts of morality
 51
■rality were early imprinted on his glowing breast; nor has the thonght lestness of youth, the Seducements of dilbrderly asibciates, or the ridicule of wit, been able totally to eradicate the virtuous imprestlons. Born with strong sensibility— — by complexion, frank. Sociable, and unguarded, he is Seldom able to resist the Solicitations of his unbridled pastions; and the blandishments of beauty have drawn him into excestes his reason disapproves. The object of universal approbation, and drunk with unlimited applause, he considers himself as a happy distinguished being, exempt from the afflictions incident to mankind; and, unaccustomed to disappointment, dreams not the hour approaches, when he will find even the most fortunate are not above the reach of Sorrow. miss seaton’s charms are uncommonly attractive, and the becoming srankness that invites familiarity, is nobly tem
D 2 pered
\
I
52 .'
pered with a modest: dignity that checks the daring lover : entirely dependent on lady Amelia, and of an obscure family, is it likely (he will permit her favourite nephew to demean himself by So unequal an alliance? Sydney too, laughs at Hymen,
and turns his pointed ridicule on marriage.
From Such a prospect, what but misery avails the fair unsortunate? Sweet Sufferer! my heart bleeds for
thee. — Tell me, Willis, how can I
«
asiist her? shall I inform her Augustus cannot marry, and loves but to delude. — Ah tell me, shall I wound her delicacy, to insure her heart? — I have employed all the rhetoric I posiess, in endeavouring to persuade my friend to accompany me to Bordeaux; but he is deas to entreaties, and, pointing to miss Seaton, “answer me, Edgerton, is it in man to quit that blooming charmer ?” — When I at
te^^p^
» '
♦
 53
tempt to look grave, and accuse his want of friendship, he dispels the gathering frown by Some unexpected pleasantry. Ah, Mr. Willis, let no man dare to repine at Sorrow, or ac.. the afflicting dispensations of Providence; since none but the all wise Bestower can tell what will prove a blesilng or calamity to him, on whom it is bestowed. Misfortunes only confer self knowledge; and disappointments perfect virtue. Mr. Sydney has a soul naturally elevated, but, constantly crowned with prosperity, has
never found occasion to exert the la
/

tent heroism. In friendship he is warm, disinterested, and sincere : dis trefs obtains a ready alleviation from his bounty; and modest merit feels not the obligation he confers. The women he considers formed, “fairest of. creation, ” for his pastime; he boasts his address in deceiving them, and shows his wit in ridiculing their con
D 3 fidence.
54
fidence. Oaths, vows, promises, and' protestations, are, in his idea, the lover’s playthings;; bubbles to cheat the thoughtless fair one.
Who is it says, young men that are not a little unruly give small hopes of ever being eminent? I like not the sentiment— — it licenses irregularity; iinless indeed,
4
When reason, like the skilful charioteer. Can break the fiery passions to the bit.”
miss Sydney dotes on her Augustus, and reposes in his bosom the most unlimited confidence: an affection he repays with interest, and in his treatment of her, mingles the most attentive politeness, with the honest friendship of a brother. In ihh amiable society can my heart be uninterested can it do otherwise than recall the halcyon days of happiness it once could boast? Ah, Willis! this Subject borders on distraction; I quit the friendly
circle i
. 55
circle; but, alas! whither shall I fly!! change of place exclude pursuing sorrow, or variety banish thought. But is there not, my friend, a still more powerful motive? Dear, flattering expectation; yes, I will listen to thy soothing promise, for in distrusting Omnipotence we prove ourselves unworthy of its bounty.
Farewell, Willis, believe me with the Sincerest friendship.
Ever yours,
Henry Edgerton. LETTER XL
Miss Seaton to Lady Eliza Beauclerk,
Q I R Harry Edgerton left us this morning j and, to atone his absence, the friekle deity has blessed us with the most diverting original in nature;
D 4 pardon,.
0
h
f
56
parfion, dear Sir Theodosius the ill placed, epithet: in good truth folly is contagious; thou art not the first shallow coxcomb fashion has made ridi
f ' i
culous; and imitation has Seduced ‘ many besides thyself into insignificance, by instructing them to ape the frailties of their superiors. Pythagoras, I am told, enjoined his fol lowers a probationary silence of five years; but Fll lay my life, were Sir. Theodosius Airy a public reformer, love, honour, silence, and obedience would be the marriage vow; and the tongue of the woman he loves, a much more acceptable present than her hand. This man Seems to wage war with silence, his weapon is for ever active, and the frightened enemy flies his approach, while every place he enters re echoes to his conquest.
** Never was dashed out, at one lucky hit,,
A fool, so just a copy of a wit.”
The
I
The T r I n k e t. 57
The wretch, if we may believe him, is already susceptible of la belle pajjiorf,
, darts, fiames, ardors, never dying love, and unintelligible compliments have,, since the first hour of his arrival, directed their irresistible bauery against the fair Sydney, who, poor girl, appears perfectly convinced that there is not on earth a more painful penance than listening to the adulation of the coxcomb we despise— — Sir harry’s departure Mr. Sydney is more frequent with me; we have the mpst enchanting tete a tetes; and though his tongue has never owned he loves a thousand flattering distinctions are more eloquent. — I have frequently perused your friendly admonitions ^ < Ah, Eliza, a secret monitor declares them too well founded t yet, tell me, undiscerning girli how has the lovely Sydney erred to merit the blackening accusation ^ I Sometimes read your letter, till I conclude him the wretch
D 5 you
t
i
58 .
you painted; but when I see him next, every injurious calumny flies his approach; that native srankness, the manly elegance, the Sprightly wit, and those harmonious accents, were they given but to conceal the abandoned profligate — fanny’s maid knocks at the door; she informs me her mistress begs to Speak with me. Adieu — — I attend the Summons
/
^ ^
t
When I entered the apartment,. miss Sydney was standing with her back towards the door, apparently lost in thought; she turned round, roused. by my footsteps, and falling on my neck, burst into a flood of tears : I embraced her; “My Fanny, unfold your Sorrows, believe your gratesul Emma would willingly part withhap piness to relieve them.’’ — -
Ah, miss Seaton, Said the Sweet girl, can you forgive the breach of
const
♦
4
. The T r 1 n k e t 59
confidence? but sit down, continued she, and 1 will tell you all, ” — -
I seated myself, and the dear afilict ^ ' ed still hanging on my neck, I mingled with her’s, the Sympathising tears of friendship. We were in this situation when Mr. Sydney entered the room; he started, and the vivacity of unbounded pleasure changed instan laneousiy into an expreshon of tender,, concern; “miss Seaton! ray fan ny! good God, ladies, what mean these Sorrows ?” then throwing both his arms around us, petitioned us to unfold the causc, that he might re dress or join in our afiliction.. Already Softened, I was inexpresiibly affected with his appearance,, and my head: Sunk on his Sustaining bosom. Fanny disengaged herself, and left the room with precipitation. I was ashamed of my weakness, and would have followed her, but he prevented, me..
^ Tell me, my Emma, have you a.
D 6 Sorrow:
I
t
6o
Sorrow your Sydney must not share What could 1 answer? in disclosing the real motive of my tears, I should have wronged my friend; for once then I had recourse to artifice, and by assuring him we wept for the misfortunes of a much loved young associate, removed suspicion. I have not had a private conference with Fanny since, but learned from lady Amelia the cause of her concern : she desires I will use my interest with her niece, and endeavour to engage her in a ready acquiescence to her commands. I ventured to argue with her ladyship, but in vain; through what she termed excessive weakness, she had Suffered her to resuse Several very advantageous proposals; there could be no well Sounded objection to Sir Theodosius airy’s person, his manners, or his understand in e, and the Settlements he offered
O ^ \
highly exceeded her expectations. I would have answered, but she Saw my
in ten
I
\ *
% t
. 6t
intentions, an#pointing to the door,. ** Miss Seaton aare not to dispute my will : leave me, and tell miss Sydney Sir Theodosius is her husband, or She has no longer an aunt.” — I obeyed the first part of her instruction j but did she so little know your Emma, as ta imagine she could persuade the lovely, the Sensible, the Sentimental Sydney, to connect herself with a wretch, of
I
whose inferiority every hour would bring her fresh conviction?
This then was the cause of my Sweet friend’s concern : but was she not too deeply asilicted? a girl of her Spirit! So enterprising. So careless in danger. So firm in conscious rectitude;; a girl So little moved with the pageantries of fortune, that I have knowit her, when Surrounded with every pleasure, sigh for the humble shed, the charms of peaceful obscurity, and all the artless pleasures of the rural villager. If lady amelia’s tyranny was
all
t
(62
all she had to fear, lere was the breach of confidence for which she
t
Sued for pardon?.
K
TZ o’clock.
I retired as soon as postible from Supper to reaitume my pen : lady Amelia was by my fide the whole evening; not a look escaped her; she: was formal and unusually austere: Fanny appeared deeply affected,, thoughtful, and spoke little: — I felt a constraint I could not distipate; and Mr. sydney’s eyes were fixed on mine, as
I
if he feared I had not confessed the truth, and they could read the secret f attempted to disguise. Sir theodofi us alone, was perfectly himself, and' finding Fanny rejected his civilities' with disdain, turned the varying gallantry so lady Amelia, and'by some lucky compliments, fixed her opinion of his merit, and strengthened her resolutions in his favour— — f
fli2^a,,
*
'mi K a0 •• • ^
The T r I n k e t". 6j
Eliza, thus are our dreams of happl ness dispelled — Ah, let me' hasten to lose in oblivion the mortifying reflection. — Goodnight, my friend; may you share in pleasant visions with
Your
emma Seaton
LETTER XII
Augustus Sydney, esq. to Sir.
George Danvers.,
“' In these deep solitudes and awful cells,. Where heavenly pensive Contemplation dwells,. And ever muling Melancholy reigns, ”
A H, Lord! those trim damsels never dwell anywhere more to the purpose, than in the residence of thy once gay friend — Nov alas, how changed! — the convivial laugh has long been a stranger to my ears. A. thousand, and a thousand times, Danvers,,
«
64. .
vers, have I been on the point of quitting my aunt, her habitation, and all my hopes of future fortune; when the idea of my dying father rushes on my memory, and I make that facrisice to filial tenderness, which all the united force of avarice and ambition never could have extorted : “I know not my dear Augustus, Said he, pressing my hand, whether to regret the Small inheritance my extravagance has left you? myself early unaccustomed to control, with all the means to gratify every youthful passion— — think I ought to rejoice that the temptations So fatal to the father, are not his to bequeath to his fon —
■ Your aunt, whose tenderness for you can only be equalled by her desire of Supporting the dignity of our family,, will ever look upon you as her child; her kind assurances of friendship, with the conviction I entertain of your merit, are the Support of my last moments $
I
.
ments; do not refuse to add all in your power to that consolation, by promising me to transser all your affection from me to her — and oh, my fon, continued he, if at any time your heart would revolt, at what you may esteem the misfortune of dependence, check its rising emotions, and reflect it was the last request of a father who loved you tenderly.”,
Yes, it is that reflection which chains me to this Solitude — it is that Scene which presents itself to my memory, and I endeavour to appear content — — nay, cheerful — would you believe it, Danversthe chearfulness of the gay Sydney is assumed— — he would blush if a real sprightliness were in Spired by the dull objects that Surround him. — I never Seem conscious of my existence but when I am chatting to Sevigny, or writing to you:
I do not know though wshether it is paying you any great compliment, Sori
think
^6 .
I think they say the neighbourhood here is particularly desirable : it may be So, but when the Spirit — no faith she never had any — but when the immortal part of my good old damsel has once taken its flight, I shall readily show my sentiments of it, by taking mine also to another paradise— —
die to return to those Scenes of joyous revelry, which have so often exalted me above the common race of mortals — Hang it! I am too generous to find amusement in the follies of the people here; and there is nothing elfe to extort a smile— — — situation, when narration must Supply the place of Sentiment — — a pun the wretched Substitute of wit— — religion all that is proposed of future joy.
L E T
s
w
9
. LETTER XIII
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza Beauclerk.
HE inclosed pacquet was delivered to me early this morning: my eliza’s feeling heart will join to pity, the lovely Fanny.
“Encouraged by a look of affectionate friendship, I have Seen the time when I would have disclosed every Secret of my heart to my dear miss Seaton; I would have thrown myself at her feet, and have obtained a pardon for the long concealment: but the confesiion was protracted by my brother’s entrance. Say, my Emma, will you sympathise with the unfortunate Fanny? ah, rather will you not accuse her Solly, and arraign as in discretion the simplicity of youth?
When
%
68
When my brother first went to Oxford, lady Amelia removed with her family to one of her estates a few miles from that place; to be still near him, and to have many opportunities of feeing him while he pursued his studies, afforded me Infinite delight. — The allurements of novelty, and the enchanting beauties of the most rural situation, derived fresh charms from the consideration that he shared its
pleasures. Ah, miss Seaton, Suffer me to dwell on the Scenes of delight, those shades have witnessed; alas I I suppose you are acquainted with the narrative I am about to disclose— — — my Emma, can you not read your fanny’s heart, and Save her the mortification of recollecting her vanished happiness?? — the days of his vacation, Augustus would frequently accompany me in a rural ramble; and when he was from home, I took pleasure in retracing the paths we had
trod
I
J
K
 69
trod together, while a favourite author was the companion of my walk. It was a most delightful morning in April, the fun darted its enlivening rays; the relenting earth disclofed its gay productions; the hyacinth, the primrose, violet, and gay narcistus appeared in Sweet profusion;
s
“The black bird whistled from the thorny
brake.
The mellow bullfinch answered from the
grove.’*
I had one of shakefpeare’s tragedies in my hand, which so totally engaged my attention, that I had strayed far beyond my usual walk, ere I discovered my error; perhaps even then I might not have recollected it, but that I found myself unusually fatigued, and feeing a cottage at a Small distance, I determined to rest beneath its friendly shed. A pretty boy, about five years old, was standing in the yard, and undertook to show me to his grandmother.
JQ T fl E
there. I followed the prattling cherub to the nearest room, and on his crying out he was their Billy, the door was opened. Heavens! what was my a mazement, when I discovered an old woman, apparently in the jaws of death. Supported in the arms of a blooming and well dressed youth; his eyes humanely fixed upon her languid countenance, while two beauteous infants clung round the knees of their generous benefactor. I remained mo tionless, and hardly believing the reality of what I saw, when the charming unknown turned his eyes on me, and still Sustaining his feeble charge, ** It is thus. Said he, astistance wears an angel’s Sorm, and beauty borrows enchanting graces from benevolence.” I replied, that it was the noble error of elevated minds to conclude others actuated by their own generous motives; that an unexpected incident conducted me to the cottage —
and
)
f
t
 yi
and I confessed myself indebted to the chance which had enabled me to relieve distress, and exhibited humanity in its most beauteous form; I took a purse from my pocket, and laying it upon the table, “Good God! I exclaimed, how thoughtless are thy creatures of afflictions their situation exempts them from fustaining.”
We staid sometime with the unfortunate family, and had the Satisfaction to behold our patient Somewhat recovered by our care. When I arose to depart, the amiable youth begged I would permit him to share my walk;
I agreed without hesitation, and we parted with infinite regret about a mile from my aunt’s. The next morning I arose early, and by a kind of irresistible attraction, bent my steps towards the cottage : I had not proceeded far, ere I discovered the object that, unknown to myself, I sought; he was Seated beneash a Spreading tree, and
had
/
4
yz The T r i n k e t.
had a book in his hand, which on see ing me, he threw upon the grass; and stepping forwards, approached me with a well turned compliment. I entreated him to resume the study I had interrupted: he Smiled, and opening the page at one of hammond’s Elegies, in a most charming voice repeated.
With mean difguise let others nature hide, And mimic virtue with the paint of art:
. I Scorn the cheat of reafon’s foolish pride.
And boast the graceful weakness of my heart,
■ ■■ — Wi i I II till i II
The more I think, the more I feel my pain. And learn the more each heavenly charm to
prize.
While fools, too light for passion, safe remain. And dull sensation keeps the stupid wife.”
To change the subject, I begged him to relate Some anecdotes of the unhappy family I surprised him so ge nerousiy relieving — he obeyed“
“
6
. 73
I
** The old woman yoir beheld me Supporting, is the mother of a favourite servant I have lately lost; in his last illness he entreated to speak with me, and falling at my feet, petitioned me to preserve an aged parent, and his three helpless children, from the stings of want; his labour had been long their Sole Support. — I astured him, they stiould find in me an unalterable friend; he raised his eyes to mine with a look of the warmest gratitude; and falling back upon the bed, my ever honoured master, cried the faithful William, I dare believe you; ” — and immediately expired. I Sent immediately to the wretched parent, acquainting her with his decease, at the Same time desiring her to inform me of every wants could Supply; and concluding the weight of obligations lelsened by familiarity with the benefactor, I have made it my business frequently to visit the little family. When I vol., I. E usually
y
74
usualjy approached the cottage, the children ran out to meet me, and hanging round me, difclosed their trifling wants, or made me umpire in an infant quarrel : but yesterday all was still. When I reached the door, the eldest boy opened the latch, and pointing to an inner room, burst into tears. “Tell me, William, why you cry; your brother, your grandfather — • are they well ?”
He (hook his head, and conducting me to the bedside, gently undrew the curtain; the good old woman raised herself in her bed, and Seeing me, “Ah, sir. Said she, I shall shortly be beyond the reach of your humanity, but these helpless children will live to celebrate their benefactor. There are, I am told, charitable institutions for the maintenance of afhicted orphans; your interest in the world may place them to advantage; but alas, sir! will not the charms of grandeur, and the varying joys of gaiety, drive from
 75
your youthful breast the wretched dependants on your bounty?”
I gave her the strongest assurances that I would shield them from oppression, that I would be the guardian of their youth, and provide for them Suitable to their birth. — •
“Enough, sir, she replied, I am content; and with the firmest confidence in the generous promise, I resign them to thy care.”
She embraced them Separately, strained the lovely girl to her maternal bosom, and raising her eyes to heaven, ‘‘ Almighty God, she cried, shelter this lovely blossom from a Seducing world.” — She could proceed no further j the weeping child fell from her feeble grasp, and she Sunk insenfible in my Sustaining arms. You, madam, were witness to the Sequel of the moving Scene; and I have the Satisfaction of informing you, her nurse affures me there are still hopes of her recovery :
E 2 but
I
76 The Tri N K E T.
f
but to what lucky chance am I indebted for the pleasure I enjoy Pardon, madam, if the question is too daring; but can inquiry cease when it is routed by beauty, and curiosity awakened by the most persect workmanship of heaven? — I told him the charmsof the morning had induced me to continue my walk beyond its usual ■ length; that finding myself fatigued, and discovering no other place of rest,
I ventured to enter the friendly cottage; that a lovely boy had conducted me to the apartment where I found him, like Some Sustaining angel, sostening the bed of death.
Our topics of discourse were numerous; and on every Subject he discovered a lively wit, corrected by a Solid judgement, while the srankness of his ingenuous youth received fresh graces from the refinements of a liberal edu
f
cuation. The hour that I was obliged to attend in lady amelia’s dreshng
7 room
1
VI
 77
room approached, and we separated with an appointment to meet under the same tree in the evening. Ah, miss Seaton, how happy was your Fanny, when each pasting minute hastened the hour of meeting, and every revolving fun encreased the growing friendship! I soon learned the companion of my walks was the young marquis of Montreal, eldest fon to the duke of — —, that he had been sometime at the university, was much beloved, and continued at Oxford but till the duke had provided a tutor to accompany him in his travels. As lady Amelia was generally engaged in her apartment, and I had always been used to amuse myself in the garden with a book, or my guittar, it was very easy to avoid suspicion;; I did not disclofe our frequent meetings, as I feared to hazard the inexpreshble pleasure I received in his society. I often indulged myself in listening to my
E J bro
\

brother’s description of the students peculiarities, or to the encomiums he lavished on his friends. When the marquis was mentioned, he did justice to his worth; but as he was not in the number of his more intimate associates, he was seldom the subject of his discourse, Conscious how inconceivably dear I esteemed the amiable youth, a certain unaccountable diffidence kept me silent, and to my own heart only I dared recount his worth. Some weeks were now elapsed, and the dear marquis was become
I
“My constant thought.
Like light, the daily blessing of nay eyes.
And the dear dream of all my Sweetest stumbers.’*
He was the charming vision of each returning night, and I arose but to renew the joys of yesterday.
One morning, at breakfast, lady Amelia proposed an expedition for a
few
/
 79
few days to Bath : as I had never fecn that much celebrated city, Augustus joyfully embraced the offer. With her ladyship, to beresolved, is immediately to execute: it would have been fruitless to have framed excuses, and I left the Grove without a possibility of informing the marquis. We shared every pleasure of this gay metropolis : the men exerted their wit in complimenting my charms, and their address in varying my amusements: but the marquis was ever present to my imagination, and with infinite delight I beheld the morning dawn that was to restore me to his society. It was late before we reached the Grove: I threw myself upon the bed, and anticipating the joys of meeting, I fell into a profound steep; I had left the shutters open, and the rising fun, darting through the curtain awakened me. I arose, and contemplating the beauteous object, “Tell me, thou glorious
E 4 orb.
8o .
>
/
orb, cried I, dost thou,, in thy wide. extended course, behold an object lovely as my Montreal — It was too early to leave the house, and aiming at a studied negligence of dress, I endeavoured to beguile the tedious minutes at my toilet: at length, my watch informed me it was the usual hour, and I Sallied forth. — Alas!! gaiety forsook me when I reached the tree, and Saw no traces of my marquis j I Seated myself upon the block of wood where I beheld him the morning after our first meeting, and gave a loose to tears.
I was lost in thought, my handkerchief at my eyes, when I felt my apron gently pulled, and looking up,
I Saw one of the little cottagers at my fide: he drew a letter from his pocket, and telling me that his grandmother Sent me that, ran from me with amazing swistness. It was folded up, and Sealed as a Small pacquet, but without address, and I opened it with a trembling

f
r
I
T HE  8l
ling hand : ah, miss Seaton! no time can erase the dear contents from my remembrance, and the following lines are strongly engraven on my heart:
Was it well done, miss Sydney, to leave the wretched Montreal a prey to the most racking inquietude.? to quit him without one soft adieu! Ah, madam, pardon the ill-founded accusations of a distracted heart; I know the necesiity which compelled you to partake the fatal journey, and to avoid a final Separation, you have ignorantly incurred it. The day after you left the Grove I received the duke’s commands, his stern injunctions, that, with the tutor he had provided, I must leave England on the morrow. Alas I miss Sydney, malice blackened our delightful meetings, and bore the aggravated mischief to his ear. I received the mandate with inconceivable - anguish; but it was a father’s writing,
E 5 and
8z
and claimed obedience. Is this a time, madam, to disclofe the most ardent love? a pasiion, first conceived beneath the roof of Sorrow, and avowed in the moment of Separation : yet, hear me, allconscious heaven, while in thy sight I Swear these arms shall not receive another bride; and may this heart no longer beat, when it ceases to forget its first posieffor. Adieu, my only love — thou pleasing partner of my happiest hours, believe I taste sincerer transport in vowing to be only thine, than the most seducing of thy sex could offer. — Thy image shall be the dear inhabitant of my bosom — thy charms a Sure preservative against the Snares of beauty — and the remembrance of thy matchless virtues a spur to glorious deeds. Shall I entreat you to preserve your heart for me? Shall I declare so tenderly I love you, the bare idea that another may triumph in your affection, is worse
than
 83
than death — • Ah, no! I scorn the felfish thought — miss Sydney may be blessed— — if you meet a man more worthy,. raise the deserving youth to tnvied^happiness, by the most invaluable gift, thy yielded hand. Ere you receive this, one air no longer Surrounds us both 5 we can no longer gaze on the Same flowering shrub. Still 1 envy the unconscious plant thy lovely glances: and yet, delightful thought! the same glorious orb enlivens both: tell me, miss Sydney, how many of those revolving suns shall pass, ere you entirely forget your constant
Montreal.”
A thousand times I perused the tender billet, then falling on my knees, vowed never to receive a husband but. my Montreal. In returning to the house, I met my brother with my
E 6 lord
\
I
84 .
lord G — —, a nobleman who at Bath made me profesiions of love, which I construed mere idle gallantry. I endeavoured to avoid them, but auguf tus caught me by the gown, and obliging me to listen to a little sprightly raillery on being So early absent from the house, conducted
me to the dresiing room, where breaks
*
faff waited. Soon after the table was
removed, lord G -- -- -- took occasion
- to leave us.
I Saw by sydney’s' eyes he had Something particular to communicate; nor was surprised, when he informed me that his lordship had Solicited him to use the interest he postested, in his favour. “My dear girl, continued the friendly adviser, you can have no
objection to lord G — -- -- ’s person or
accomplishments, and his character is universally approved. Lady Amelia is capricious; and though in compliment to your brother’s peace you have
avoided
%
\
/
. %
avoided that subject, yet your silence: has convinced him how much you feel the weight of her authority. Say, can my Fanny hesitate in accepting a promising establishment, and in sharing the bleffingsof independence with the most amiable of his sex?”
Ah, my brother! your Fanny was born the Sport of fortune; nor receives the pleasure from the flattering pro posal, but that she may prove her constancy in rejecting it. Yes, dearest Montreal, cried I, (rising with agitation) love can please but from thy lips, and never will I listen to thy rival. — — I made this tender brother the confidant of every secret of my soul he kindly embraced me as I concluded the artless narrative, and gently chid me for suffering my heart to be engaged, at the Same time astured me he never would control my inclinations;, but as I could not continue long with
I
out predenders to my favour, it should
be
!
✓
86 .
be his study to lighten the persecution. Lord G -- -- left us the next
morning, and to Sydney am I indebt
*.
that I was not obliged to listen to the profestions of his pasiion. It is now, Emma, nearly three years since last I Saw the marquis, nor have I ever heard from him : ah, my friend I was then his pasiion feigned or does he no longer love? It is true, since he left England we have changed our habitation — but my brother has been frequently at the Grove; and I am informed the cottagers yearly receive their accustomed Salary from his bounty — could he not convey a letter by them? his banlcer — the duke — or Some com misiioned friend, perhaps remits the regular allowance. — Ah! how ready are we to excuse the man we love. Now, my Emma, you are indeed my friend; skilled in every weakness of your fanny’s heart, you will pity, you
will advise her. Tell me, miss Sea
V
tonne.
. 87
tonne, how shall I avoid the odious pro feshons my aunt commands me to encourage; how prevent a rupture between her ladyship and my brother? I know his generous indignation will be roused against the wretch, should he dare to persist in his addrestes, and I tremble for the consequences. Dear Emma, had I never seen the marquis. Sir Theodosius had still been my aversion; though all ambition ashs, were his to offer, I would reject the gift— — did you know the marquis, you would acknowledge his love an ample recompense for all I yield to prove my title to that inestimable bleshng. — Yes, lovely Montreal, your Fanny never can forsake you, still, still my heart acknowledges thy merit; and only when I forget myself can I cease to remember thee,
Miss
/
*
T R I N K E T,
Miss Seaton in continuation.
Say, my Eliza, why these“ “libertines” are suffered with impunity to betray our honest confidence, and triumph over the sorrows which Spring from a too ready trust in them. Constancy and truth are antediluvian virtues, our ancestors indeed might think very ornamental, but which their more enlightened posterity have exploded, as trammels too narrow to confine the towering genius of a polished Maccaroni: ** but, Emma,
what is all this to the marquis Believe, my friend, I hope the subject bears no affinity to him; but that in nearly three years absence, he should not have found an opportunity of af stiring his ** only love that her image was still the dear inhabitant of his bo some” is a paradox, and the solution exceeds the capacity of your
Emma.
%
V
/
J
t
. 89
\
LETTER XIV
Augustus Sydney, esq. to Sir
George danvers.
A»’ I was persuaded a fellow of my
genius could not exist: long without avantiire — if anything in this dreary corner of the creation could excite my vanity, it must be roused here; but no — where none admire, his useless to excel fas bad as none however, women and villagers. Take the tale then, that it may not fink in tirely in oblivion., I introduced you to Charlotte Darcy — that she admired me, you who know me — — must know also was a thing of course. It seems some artful fellow, witness of her attachment, determined to take advantage of it, and thought fit just to put my name at the bottom of some very
amorous
N
/
90 .
V
amorous epistles; entreating however, a trip to Scotland, as the fatigue of settlements were his abomination— — the eclat of a private marriage, and the joyous astonishment of her father and my aunt, ha! ha! ha! it carried the face of generosity, nor to wish to tie old Darcy down to fortune J and the deluded fair, who has more vanity than prudence, easily a greed that the detection of a private meeting would be the utter ruin of the affair — the time, ^ the place was fixed on — that I did not make my appearance was easily accounted for — fet out a few hours before, to order relays of horses, and prepare the clergyman, the ring, c— — — however, a fellow to whom the hero, elevated by liquor and fuccess, had the night before boasted his plan, out of compassion for the Darcys, gave me some intimation of it— — as one would not,
you
V
/
t
 91
T
you know, let a poor girl Suffer So Severely by one’s attractions, I Sat off in immediate pursuit of them; and, luckily for miss Darcy, arrived just as they entered the church. Concluding me come to plight my faith to her, she flew into my arms and fainted. — I was really affected by her situation, and sincerely wished the amiable Finch
ft
lay had the taste before her of breaking the state of the affair to her charlotte— — she recovered, the fellow went down on his knees to me, entreating my forgiveness, wshich I promised him, provided he informed Miss Darcy of his villainy as soon as she was Sufficiently recovered to Support it. — Finding her returning to life, I retired to another part of the church, while the detected hero made his humble confesiion. — Figure to yourself her emotions when I went up to her, and taking her hand, “Miss Darcy, Said I, though the most determined
partia
%
✓
92
partiality for a Single life, renders yor ‘ obliging preference of no service t me as a husband - — hope you wi not refuse to accept my sincere friend ship — think that you have found brother really interested in your we fare, and put yourself under the prc tection of a man who will be happ to restore you to your family and cor nections in Safety. “Ah, Sir, Sai she, must not you, must not the worl despise a girl, whose blind fondne has hurried her into So precipitate,; undutiful an action. — I am indeed S verely punished; but your generosil has overwhelmed me with gratituc — and leaves me Scarce anything 1 regret, but that an adequate retur will never be in my power. — M prayers and my bleshng however sha be yours; and if their sincerity can fi cure accession, your merit will indee meet its reward.” — heigh ho! — LI vapoured to death with this huir
drur
/
*
»
 93
drum — Suffice it, I contrived to hush the affair pretty well, and the Darcys are once more at peace — adore me to be Sure — but that’s nothing new — — the old ..man I believe would give me anything I should ask for — and the Spinsters here — protest themselves charmed with me. Sometimes' they take occasion to expatiate on miss darcy’s beauty — her accomplishments, her large Sortune — devil take them all — is there anything on earth to compensate the loss of liberty — not a hundred Darcys, no, if ever the blind god does wound me — So Severely as to make me renounce that dearest bles sing of the human mind, it must be Something more than beauty, accomplishments, or fortune — it must be a Jonl — Fortune — I hate the name — let the battered rake who has Survived every generous Sentiment and sensation — the wrinkled Suinster: wed for for
4r’
tune — let them try if it will pureshase
that
94
that mutual elegance of tendernes which can alone Support the sinkin heart.
^ 1 iiiiilui.ii ~ m i m fii^ I Mil - -. - r — r i r ^
XV
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
met in the breakfast room ear lier than usual this morning and were shortly after joined by Mi Sydney; he was in his riding dresi booted and Spurred, and Seemed i higher Spirits than 1 had Seen him so some days past. After drinking a did of chocolate he rang the bell, and hi man appearing, “James (Said he bring the horses then turning t lady Amelia, informed her he proposed quitting her for a few days. Sh bowed altent — I read in f'anny’s eye her desire to learn his route; but sh
pru
1
s
Tie Tri N K E T. 95
prudently restrained inquiry — was it then for me to betray folicitudeyet I ardently wished Sir Theodosius would atone his former impertinence by obtaining the wished for secret— — no — the wretch was filent, and Sydney rose to depart without satisfying the curiosity he had raised, He Saluted lady Amelia, and embraced his sister. — Alas! what meant my throbbing breast, the moment he approached me : happily his own confusion was little less, and prevented his observing mine. We followed him to the door; you cannot imagine, my Beauclerk, a finer figure on horseback, So noble, So inconceivably graceful. — — When almost out of sight he turned round, and looking back, waved his handkerchief. Shall I confess all my folly — shall I tell you that I wept — this place appeared at that instant a ■ desart, and I envied the very birds that wantoned round him. Fanny and
your
I
96
your friend are now inseparable; she indulges herself in talking of the marquis, and every event in which Sydney was concerned has, charms for me. Sometimes we amuse ourselves with conjectures on his journey; ** a thing So unusual, Says his Sister, to leave us for days, nor make me the confidant of his designs; to leave me exposed to this coxcomb’s impertinence, and to lady amelia’s increasing unkindness” — — Sometimes we conclude he obeys the call of friendship. Sir Harry Edgerton, or his Danvers, might dictate the hur rying Summons — but Fanny Seems naore apprehensive a “lady’s in the caseshe informs me here lies her
f
brother’s Sailing; constantly Successful in his attempts upon the fair, he has learned to consider women mere objects of amusement. Thus we cheat the tedious hours till his return, and Sir Theodosius now imagining himself of importance, is, from the
conse
\
. 97
consequential airs he astumes, exceedingly diverting. Let me tell you, Eliza, if miss Sydney continues long obdurate, I have hopes, by a little well timed 'flattery, to drive her from his heart; a few tender glances, and B “gad So, miss Seaton you are too Smart, too Smart upon my word madam” — have kindled these daring expectations. Lady airy’s compliments
— — lady airy’s carrlage^ — ah, the enchanting Sounds. — The hero knocks at my door; dear Sir Theodosius, I sty to admit you —
Pshaw, how can you be So teasing— — lay down my pen, merely to he informed the Sun shone — intoler pshle impertinence — why, wretch, I See, I feel its rays. What think you, Eliza, he has pjapared an arbour for my reception, and I must toil for half a mile beneath the Scorching luminary, or forfeit all pretensions to his favour; J go then, lest on my refusal, poor
vol. I. F Mils
98 Thb
miss Sydney should be obliged to accompany him.
Ha f ha! ha 1 excellent upon my word, why thou monkey, art thou not contented with making thyself ridiculous, but the very Scheme of nature must be altered in coinpliance with heterogeneous imagination } - — Was there ever anything more laughable! an arbour formed by the branches of thickly interwoven elms, the prettiesc in nature, this creature had been all the morning busied in adorning with the variegated produce of the garden. Do but imagine a sun siower, a carnation, a jonquil, or a lily, Sprouting from an elm — and over the entrance a pair of bleeding hearts, with the initials of his and ray friend’s name curiousiy wrought in a cypher of rcse buds, — while a thousand clumsy cu pids and fluttering doves, fresh from the toy shop, completed the ridiculous
/
#
 99
lous appearance. I burst Into So hearty a laugh, that I was Some Ume, ere I discovered miss Sydney Seated at the head of the arbour, and Sir Theodosius placing me by her side, cast himself upon the grass at our feet. — Heaven knows how long we should have continued in this very amusing situation, had not a rosebud which formed one of the bleeding hearts, luckily fell to the ground. — Sir Theodosius started up to replace it, but being unable to reach the Spot which the unfortunate flower was destined to pos sess, fetched from a neighbouring tree the stool that had asiisted him in his notable improvements; then placing it just on the bank, rose with amazing agility, and was congratulating himself on his astonishing taste; when, ah, unlucky chance! stooping rather too forward, the treacherous stool flew from under him, and poor Sir Theodosius rolled into the brook. — Fanny
F 2 Screamed,
, 4
*
100 .
screamed, laughed, and endeavoured to asiist the degraded knight by turns. — Mv mirth was excessive, and echo
J ^
rang with the repeated peals of laughter —; the gardeners, alarmed by miss
r
sydney’s cries, flew towards the place whence they thought they proceeded, and as the cave of Trophonius immediately inclined all who entered it to melancholy, this arbour Seemed invented to restore their native cheerful ness, and had the quite contrary effect of exciting exuberant mirth — the gardeners, the maids, the coachman, through excessive laughter were unable to offer their assistance; and we
r
ajl Surrounded the brook, holding our Sides, and gazing first upon the arbour, then on the unfortunate knight, who by his repeated cries, and moving lamentations heightened the Scene — happily the brook was So shallow it was more than probable his clothes would be the only Sufferers; and I
question
 lol
question whether any had stirred to relieve him, but that the Sound of lady amelia’s voice roused her Servants, and she reached us just as the drip ping hero had landed on the bank. Her ladyship appeared amazingly a larmed at the accident, and Sir Theodosius was conducted in state to the
\
mansion, casting many enraged glances at the unsortunate damsels, and, I doubt not, vowing vengeance against us in his heart. He retired to his apartment Soon after — lady Amelia Seems to feel her favourite’s disgrace, while Fanny and myself are obliged to as sume a gravity we are strangers to. — • How infinitely would Me Sydney have been charmed with this adventure 1 ah,, does he while absent,; think of
E M M A'.
* *
F 3 LETI

^ •
\
102 The
w
LETTER XVI
From the same to the Same.
ivi^ Eliza we are all undone — that
fatal arbotir, what mischief was it big with — lady Amelia was closet ed this morning for an hour with Sir Theodosius, and went from thence
s
to miss sydney’s apartment, where she gave vent to her rage, and loaded the dear girl with variety of opprobrious language 5 ** did she indulge her in every wish she formed, that her au thority might be despised — and support miss Seaton — but to ridicule a favourite guest.” — The poor girl was unable to answer her; and she left her with a menace that if she did not prepare on the morrow to receive Sir Theodosius as her husband, neither herself nor beggared friend should find an asylum within her walls — now, could I laugh very heartily at the impotent
 103
potent rage, but that my Fanny •suffers; and I cannot persuade the dear afflicted that Mr. Sydney is her protection from the threatened violence. She sends to speak with me — I will resume my pen as Soon as possible
^ ^
joy, my Eliza — read the in closed, and join in admiring the noblest, the most valuable of men.
To Miss Sydney.
Show me the way in which I can oblige you, Sydney, and let the pleasure with I embrace the opportunity evince the sincerity of my friendship.” these were my fanny’s words upon a late occasion, and the time is now arrived, when I will make trial of her affection : on mature deliberation, the only way I can insure you from lady amelia’s tyranny, is by entreating your acceptance of the inclosed deed,
F 4 which,
t
%
104
which, by fixing you in independence renders you mistress of your actions. I hope to embrace you in a few days; my dear sister, do, not Subject your Augustus to the mortification of hearing his Fanny confess herself obliged. I arn just preparing for a masked ball; you would laugh to See me en philosophe, and point your Sprightly wit at a stranger metamorphose than any Ovid has celebrated — I know not how you feel; but believe me you are infinitely indebted to me for bestowing those precious moments, borrowed iiom the theatre of gaiety, upon that unfashionable thing— — filler $ and it will be sometime ere I dare shake hands with a bel esprit, or address a well turned compliment to a pretty woman, after having Subscribed myself
Your truly affectionate
Sydney.
la
II
The Tri N K E T.. i-05
f #
In this pacquet was inclosed a deed of settlement, entitling miss Sydney to three hundred pounds per annum, in -- eluding a dwelling house in a pleasant part of Somersetshire. — Thus has this generous brother, out of his Small patrimony, rendered a much loved sister’ independent; and now, unawed by' lady amelia’s threats, she may preserve her hand for the amiable Mon -- treal: her happiness could be established in no other method; to have received an annual allowance from* Mr. Sydney would have Subjected her to many mortifications;, and it is im -- posilble to gonser Srequent obligations without reminding us that we are dependent. The dear girl is all amazement,, and, lost in admiration, weeps the unexpected gift,. I am impatient to learn how lady Amelia will receive.; the news, but from her happy par
tialitjy
I o6 .
/
tiality in favour of her nephew’s actions, I have the most: flattering expectations. And now, my Eliza, are you not delighted with the noble youth?
I
Dear, generous Sydney! the modesty that Scruples to consess itself charmed with thy worth, differs little from in fensibiiity.
^ ^
s
Since I wrote the above, I learn, that after perusing her brother’s pacquet, miss Sydney informed her aunt of the contents; and beseeching her permission to discard Sir Theodosius, allured her (he should ever find her as fond, as dutiful, as obedient, as while her Sole dependence was on her bounty. Lady Amelia was charmed with this instance of her affection, and did jus tice to her nephew’s generosity. Sir Theodosius leaves us tomorrow; and through the amiable Sydney, felicity is once more restored to this little circle,
1
\
T HE  . 107
cle. — Write soon, my friend, and by asturances you (hare, complete, our happiness.
»
LETTER XVII
Sir Harry Edgerton to Augustus Sydney, esq.
/
Madrid.
why, Augustus, were those unmerited praises lavished on your Edgerton.? believe me they are acceptable, but as they prove your partiality, and convince me you poffess these virtues with which you grace your friend. I have been here three weeks, and you would hardly acknowledge your Edgerton in the Surly Spaniard : it is my custom to adopt the manners of the people I converse with; their ideas are not perhaps So easily asturned, and in oases where to distent from the ge
F 6 neral
ios The T r i n k e t.
"neral opinion can be no imputation on my understanding, I neither affect
singularity nor endeavour to avoid it.
Ere I return to England, I propose spending a few days at Paris : in that tlicatre of frolic, whim, and bagatelle, I shall give a loose to the innocent pleasures that Surround me, and temper the moroseness of philosophy with the airy sprightliness of the thoughtless Parisian.
Sir Richard Steele has termed gallantry to women the heroic virtue of private persons : in France, the ladies reign with unlimited Sway; but we know not where to Seek the glorious deeds their staves have perfected, nor is the general gallantry productive of general virtue — stop, Sydney — I know what you would insinuate — Unlimited professions are Seldom the test of sincerity, and the universal lover never rises to that dignity of Sentiment the
6 Servant
 i o
fervent attachment to a virtuous individual inspires. — In England, where we laugh at the fetters imposed by beauty, and ridicule the pasiion till we feel its sweetest excess, the noblest actions spring from the ambition of meriting the fair; and I will engage one tender glance from a British youth is attended with more elevated resolutions than the Smooth adulation of these boundless profestbrs.
I had the unexpected happiness of meeting with our friend Harry law fon at Saragosifa, engaged as usual iiii the full pursuit of some dying fair one: : surprise enhanced the joy of our accidental rencontre, and in gaitjde cceurr he swore he would have the pleasure of Spending Some days with his old as sociate. Whether he did not find the cpnversation of one, to whom years hadi •given gravity, - as agreeable as he expected J or that his fair Atalanta, appearing in his dream, redoubled his.
keenness
\
)
no
keenness for the chase, I am at a loss to
'/
determine; but this eccentric genius, while I was folded in the arriis of steep, ordered his horses, and Set off with redoubled Spirits in his irregular pursuit. How happy is this shadrhan, while, like the farnous hero of La Manche, his quixotism enlivens the hours of an otherwise insipid existence, and conduces to the entertainment of the Surrrounding Spectators. If you have an inclination for a trip to Paris,
I will meet you there what time you shall appoint, and accompany you in your return to England. What say you Sydney, has this Scheme no charms for you Believe your presence would enliven every scene.. be infinitely apreeable to
Your
pienry Edgerton.
LETO

0
/
*
i
. i II
• >
LETTER XVIII
Augustus Sydney, esq. to Sir
George Danvers.
X^A 1 ha! ha! blush on, my little
virago, and believe the pretty
rage by adding variety to thy beauty «
has rendered it more alluring. — Really, Danvers, these bewitching feruales were created but to involve thy Sydney in the most confounded Scrapes but let me endeavour to give you a clearer account of this important fracas. — Know then, that on my arrival this evening, after shaking hands with Fanny and lady Amelia, I inquired for miss Seaton, and was informed she had been sometime in the grove; I followed, but not feeing her, concluded she had retired into a grotto : nor was I mistaken in my conjectures - — I entered unobserved, and stood
7 motionless,
«(**«
\
V
ni
t
motionless, contemplating the most beautiful object I had ever beheld, the blooming Seaton in a becoming negligence of dress, and reclined in the most inviting attitude. — At length she raised her eyes, and starting from her seat with precipitation — Good heavens! she exclaimed, do h then once more behold my amiable Sydney ?” — and approaching towards me, “this unexpected pleasure, fir” — she blush* ed, hesitated, and was incapable of proceeding. I caught her to my bofomj. and warmed with wine and beauty -- ^ in short, George, so little was I master of myself, that I dared to shock my sister’s friend with the most infamous' proposals — As if she had borrowed strength from disdain,. the lovely heroine burst from my encircling arms r u Wretch, cried she, were the world: at thy disposal, I would scorn to share it with thee. — Ah, Mr. Sydney, I blush to have been so much deceived; ’*
■ — Av;
>
J
. iij
— At that instant, George I felt how awful virtue is, ” — nor offered to detain her. Not doubting, however, but that the dear girl, after a little pouting, would be as ready as myself for a reconciliation, I waitedwith impatience the hour of supper;; a message, informing lady Amelia that miss Seaton was indisposed and begged to be excused appearing, was all the Satisfaction it brought: — the ladies wereextremely concerned, but, thanks to my skill in the disease, my Spirits were little impaired by an indispofition I concluded a few hours would remove, and I entertained them with a
I
ridiculous representation of the party I dined in; at last we separated, and not inclined to rest, I seized my pen, the most eligible method to promote
“tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy steep.”
curse?
/
ti *.
'^
curse on the ill timed folly that has
destroyed my happiness— — is gone, Danvers; absolutely eloped imagine us Seated at, breakfast, open mouthed, gazing on each other in stupid amazement, as if planet struck at the unexpected news, while miss, seaton’s favourite attendant delivered a letter to my sister, and informed us that her lady ordered a chaise last night, and urging indispenfibly bufiness, Set off in the morning before sunrise— — of the servants had followed the girl into the room, either to divert themselves with our Surprise, or to gain intelligence on the strange occurrence : lady Amelia observed them,, and turning to Fanny, “My dear. Said she, the busipess that claimed miss.
seaton’s attendance demands imme
0
diate dispatch; and, as the moment
we Say Farewell is the most painful
p a r t
i
 115:
part of Separation, I would not Suffer her to embrace you.”
You would have laughed, George, could you have beheld the altered looks of the Surrounding Spectators; lately So intent to catch every word, to treasure every look: — the stare of wonder on their vacant countenances instantly gave place to disappointment; and by lady amelia’s lucky presence of mind, the dear emma’s spotless name was preserved from their degrading Suspicions. When we were alone, her ladyship confessed herself ignorant of her departure, and gave free latitude to female eloquence, while the utmost variety of imaginary causes were asiigned, as the motives of her Secrecy and flight. I endeavoured to silence her, but she proceeded with increasing virulence, nor Scrupled to load the charmer with the most Scandalous aspersions: — “Good God, ray dear madam, cried the afflicted Fanny,
restrain
ii
restrain these ill grounded accula ^ tions; ril engage miss Seaton is innocent, and will return to us with power to account for all her actions.” — ** Re --, turn! cried lady Amelia, almost choked
with rage, never shall these doors receive her; and the person who dares asiist her, no longer boasts my favour.”
Distracted with a thousand contending pashons, I threw myself at her feet, beseeching her to recall the cruel Sentence; while the too rigid beauty presented herself to my imagination, afflicted, unprotected, and vainly call ing upon Sydney. — Fanny drew the letter from her pocket, and having a gain perused it, put it in my hand; I withdrew to indulge myself in private, and hurrying to a retired part of the garden, presied the dear characters to my lips. — Here I expected to see the cause of her elopement drawn in the most odious colours, and doubted

I
 117
ed not but the rage of an exalperatcd woman would have spent itself in complainings to her friend — See how I wronged my emma’s elevated mind.
/
miss Seaton to miss Fanny Syd.
ney.
A fatal necessity compels me to quit your hospitable mansion. — Ah, miss Sydney, believe not appearances j nor think your Emma insenfible of the generous friendship which has long supported her. That I am obliged to leave you without disclosing the motives that enforce the Seeming ingratitude adds poignancy to misfortune : my much loved Fanny, why, why am I not permitted to clasp you to my bosom;; make you the confidant of my bleeding heart! — Alas! I thought the sorrows your sweet Society relieved, the Iasi I had to Suffer; and when I resigned my Sather, Soolishly concluded
4
I 18
eluded the arrows of adversity exhausted. My generous friend, I leave you with heartfelt anguish. — — Ah, how imperfect is the virtue that has not learned to deny itself, and how impotent the affection that is not covetous of the calamity which imparted would wound its friend. — Should Scandal,
t
roused by my Sudden departure, point its envenomed shafts against my spot less - reputation, 1 trust Miss Sydney will defend it : she too, will Soften la dy Amelia in my favour, and should we ever meet again, I flatter myself she will not blush to acknowledge her
unfortunate, but faithful,
t
Emma.
f
Ah, Danvers, over this Sweetly moving billet, even stoicism must drop a tear — — that I was the inflictor of her heartfelt anguish, ” was a reflection I was unable to Support. —
Yet
✓
 iig
Yet tell me, George, was not the virtue too Severe that urged her flight? might not even the most: rigid, have been contented with a iess painful Sacrifice?
I ordered my horse — and forbidding
rny Servant to follow me, have
traced her over moorlands and
%
mountains” — from tovv^n to town. — Oil, I was not born to pursue— — shone So little — and happily as I am not an adept in the Sport, I have little occasion to engage in it— — understand me, Danvers,
“In love the victors from the vanquilh’d fly.
T hey ily that wound.” — —
♦
To be Sure at present things are Somewhat derangee — but I was Just going ' to tell you, that all the advamage I have reaped from this notable pursuit, amounts to no more, than the mere Sulpicion that the pretty novice has
Sought privacy in London; at least the /
land
i20
«
landlord at M — informed me, that a young woman exactly resembling the description, had taken a place in a stagecoach going to that metropolis. — It is impostible for me to leave this now truly desolated mansion; the women here, might conclude me concerned in emma’s departure, and Scandal once awakened, exaggerate the truth — I shall be doubly impatient till this unfortunate affair is quietly adjusted; and the moment she is beyond the reach of aspersion, use my utmost endeavours to discover her re treat. In the mean time, you may be of infinite Service to me — be diligent, my dear Danvers, in trying to find the lovely wanderer — she is most certain ly in London; ah, let me conjure you to Srequent every place where it is likely you should receive information : if you prove fuccessful, place her in Some genteel family, tell her how ardently I love, and affure her I shall esteem
myself
 121
I
myself the happiest: of mankind, if she will condescend to accept my hand, the only adequate atonement for the injury she has Sustained. So! So! on my word a generous reparation? who would not be affronted, to be So ap peased. Well, it must be confessed, there is Something extremely ennobling in the ardors of a virtuous pas fion j it refines the heart, polishes the Sentiments — can even confer new graces on
Augustus Sydney.
'... mi id mtant >■ i ^
LETTER xvm.
Sir George Danvers to Augustus
Sydney, esq,
‘‘ Of all comforts I mlfcarried.
When I play’d the fool and married.”
^ HIS matrimony, Sydney, is the
devil! an absolute ignis Satuus to delude the unwary — a vision in vol. I. G pro
I
V
t
122 .
prospect pleasant, but ending in despair— — enchanting phantom that promises everlasting joys, and vanishes in the embrace. — Socrates evinced his fortitude in Sustaining it, and the wits of all ages have proved their genius in ridiculing it. It furnishes raillery for the gay, inquiry for the curious, and disappointment for the Sanguine; it instructs the philosopher to moralise, the divine to harangue on the empti ness of Sublunary pleasure, and the beauty to neglect her charms. It is now nearly three weeks, since I engaged for better, for worse S’ and you are, doubtless, all impatience to learn the irresistible impulse that en
JL '
forced the deed. i’ll tell you, Sydney : lsaw her beauteous, and I had proved her virtuous; these ill matched companions were in her breast twins tied by nature.” I parlied for a division, but finding little hopes of ac' ' I agreed for the encumbrance.
 123
brance, and purchased her with matrimony.
Your letter is just come to my hands; I considered, and perused the characters a thousand times — the writing, it must be confessed, greatly re sembled yours; the name, the Seali and Some trifling peculiarities Speak my friend; but the diction, the Sentiments, and the pretty employment you have asiigned me, are highly diverting. And So really I am to Seek out the pretty fugitive — why, prithee Sydney, dost thou imagine there is Some point of light which shines stronger on thy Emma — which distinguishes her from the beauties of her Sex, and that the charmer is to be discovered by the beaming radiance? Pray, my good friend, inform me in your next, where the notable Search is to commence, through what district I am to pursue the flying fair, or whether you would have me receive at once the
G 2 noble
«
124
Tioble order of knight errantry — —
mount my Rosinante — rescue distreff ed damsels — brave all dangers — ob lige wandering heroes to acknowledge your dulcinea’s charms, till her beauty and my valourous achievements are the objects of universal admiration.
Ha! ha I ha! pardon, good Sydney; it was but thy likcness in the grotto excited the guilty risibility — «
y
Even such a thing.
So mute, So dead in look, so woe begone. Drew priam’s curtain at the dead of night. And would havo told him half his Troy was
f V
burnt, ”
Quoting, as I live! and the inimitable shakespeare, the first bard i have contributed to immortalise. — Wellcthis matrimony is an excellent brightener ' of the memory — but to the grotto. — In the name of wonder, by what unaccountable rastiness were you actuated? confess now, that, notwithstanding

I
 125
ing your triumphs, you are in these things a very novice. If at any time • you want employment, favour me with the Sequel of your romance, and believe me
Sincerely yours,
Danvers.
\
LETTER XIX
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
A H, Eliza, how are the arrows of
adversity sharpened, when pointed by the hand we love : other Sorrows may indeed siightly affect us,, but the heart is deeply wounded by the unkindness of a friend, in v/hose bosom it was accustomed to repose. — — Reduced even to depend on others for Subsistence, my fall I imagined was complete, and that misfortune could
G 2 not
jz6
not fink me lower : alas! the wretched Emma is not beyond the reach of malice; and the cruel Sydney would deprive her, even of the “immediate jewel of her soul, ” — spare me the repetition. — Ah, think your Emma used only to the Soothing vows of friendship, shocked by the most indelicate proposals; nor wonder that she Scorned to Submit to the painful necesiity of receiving continual favours, which, though Mr. Sydney could not cancel, he taught her to despise. — My resolution was fixed, and I employed the night previous to my departure, in writing to my Fanny — at length the rising Sun adorned the walks where I had Spent So many tranquil hours, yet I entered the chaise without a sigh — it drove off — and I discovered your Emma was not born to play the heroine : Fanny was ever present in idea, accusing my unkindness; and as' absence ever glostes the failings of the
offender.
 127
offender, even Mr. Sydney appeared less culpable. — We passed a cottage — Surely said I, on the humble roof inhabited by innocence, peace most easily descends— — stopped the postilion, and alighted — If, Madam, (replied a young woman, in answer to my inquiry) you will condescend to Share my apartment — *‘most willingly, ” interrupted I, and followed her in. —
An elderly woman was Spinning by the fire, to whom, though time had given wisdom, it had not taught Suspicion — she received me with hospitality, and observing my curiosity raised by the elegant neatness everywhere conspicuous, and the uncommon propriety of her dress and language, politely Seized the first opportunity of informing me, that she was the widow of a clergyman, who had left his affairs greatly embarrassed, and that with an only daughter, her loved Cla
G 4 rinda.
$
t
128
9
rinda, she sought those pleasures in retirement, the world was no longer capable of affording. There was a hearty benevolence, an honest: freedom in her manner, when she hinted her desire to be acquainted with the motives that induced me to Seek shelter in her cottage. I wts unable to resist, and thinking her en.: itled to confidence, I related every occurrence of my life— — gentle Clarinda dropped a tear in pity to my Sorrows; while Mrs. Lawrence generousiy entreated me to consider myself at home, nor think of quitting them, but for a more pleas ing asylum. Thus, Eliza, I may a* gain. experience the charms of friendship, this pleasing Society, joined to your approbation, and a conviction of the integrity of my intentions, shall constitute the future happiness of
Your
N
E M M A
• 9
I
 129
✓
LETTER XX
4
Augustus Sydney, esq. to Sir
George Danvers.
Oct without doubt, pride is never
better disguised, than when it borrows the Semblance of humility — it must be confessed, however, my luck has been singular, but nature gives that merit fortune displays— — Suitable introduction this — “to what, ” you cry — why really, Danvers, to the prettiest epistle imaginable, and which, as suming all the seriousness I poffesied, I Sat down with a determined resolution to transcribe — ^buttome unlucky idea has put my gravity to flight — strangely discomposed the purposed etiquette. — Surely dame nature was actuated by Some malicious intention, when she endued me with this power to charm all hearts, and soreseeing
G 5 too
130
too, that it would not be my method to conceal the talent beneath a napkin. — Yet I remember to have found my equal j a Smart girl, who had more vivacity than understanding, more archness than Sensibility. But to the letter — you have Seen lady Juliet of nay, a young woman, in every respect perfectly pleasing; we frequently met in private company — She somehow discovered, what she termed the vir tues of my heart— — mere tribute humanity pays to indigence. — Commendation from the lips of a pretty woman is sure to please, and' perhaps vanity was the motive, that induced me to treat her with particular attention — her idea, however, Seldom accompanied me beyond her presence; and when I left England, she was entirely forgotten.
In this letter she modestly discloses her partiality; and in the prettiest
terms, relates the events that have Sue'
'
ceeded
•V
f
 131
ceeded since she saw me: an under’s death has rendered her mistress of a a large fortune, yet an avaricious parent would Sacrifice her to the duke of — —, a wretch whose foie distinction is an ancient title — and who, with immense wealth, never purchased enjoyment for himself, or ease for others. Thus situated, she has but one resource— — “Mr. sydney’s flattering distinctions resulted from the approbation of his heart — Sweet novice! thy ingenuous simplicity renders them synonymous— — has already, Danvers, left her father’s mansion, and directs her route towards a sweet retreat in Berkshire, where, if this billet is unnoticed, she hopes to spend her days in privacy. — Her youth palliates the romantic Scheme, and her charming confidence evinces the rectitude of that bosom from wshich she judges others — but I will pursue the lovely fugitive; I will represent to her
G 6 the
13-2’ The T r i n k e t.
the pleasures she relinquishes — the ad -- miration osan adoring multitude, and the Society of her friends. — F will convince her by this unaccountable flight she risques her hitherto untainted reputation j.and, falling at her feet,, • ponjure her, by all she holds most valuable, to listen to her
Sydney.,
f
LETTER XXL
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
OLD you, Eliza, have believed’ even Solitude productive of adventure? Yesterday evening, as Clarinda,. her mother, and myself were walking, arm in arm, deeply engaged in natural philosophy, we were alarmed by repeated Screams in a Semale voice, which Seemed to. proceed from the road; Clarinda and I ran with all possible.

%
t \
%
0
The T r I n ic e t. 1*33;
fible swiftness to afford the astistance: we were able, while the good Mrs. Lawrence hurried after us The first object that Saluted our eyes was a post-chaise hanging on one side, with the wheel at Some distance, and a young woman lying upon the bank pale and apparently lifeless — the; postillion, perfectly unconcerned, was employed in repairing his machine, — I took a bottle of Salts from my pocket, and in a short time she recovered. Never, Eliza, had I beheld a more elegant form,
— - — “A native grace sat fair proportioned on her polished limbs,,
veij’d in a Simple robe.”
- 0
The exactest Symmetry of features, and the delicate turn o f a countenance expressive of strong Sensibility, rendered her extremely interesting. — She looked round her with astonishment, and after a pretty apology for the trouble stie
had
4
134
had occasioned, inquired of the driver whether the chaise was ready for her to pursue her journey — he informed her that it was not in his power to repair it, and that she might risque her life in proceeding. Mrs. Lawrence came up to us just time enough to hear the conclusion of his Speech, and insisted that the fair stranger should give us leave to conduct her to the cottage : she complied, with many expreshons of gratitude, and accompanied us leaning on my arm. — You may, if you please, attend us, and imagine the lovely unknown, Mrs. Lawrence, Clarinda, and
f
myself, partaking a frugal, but elegant repast; the conversation refined. Sprightly, Sentimental. — About ten o’cljzick we Separated, and I arose early thi^ morning to write to my Eliza, but will now lay down my pen, and join the Sweet girl, who has been Some
time in the garden,
miss
 135
t
miss Lawrence in continuation.
Oh, madam, she is gone 1 the dear miss Seaton — never, never again shall we behold our lovely Sufferer. — For Some time before breakfast she was in the alcove with the young lady that arrived here last night: I did not think proper to join them, lest I should interrupt their conversation, and when they appeared I plainly perceived they had been both in tears. Soon after the tea things were removed, my mother proposed a walk, and we had just agreed to deser it to the evening, ' when the door opened, and a figure,
the most elegant imaginable, entered the room, the fair stranger clasped her hands, and exclaiming, it is too much !” Sunk senseless in my arms. — The person who occasioned the alarm flew to her, but miss Seaton caught his attention : perceiving herself observed.
136
served, She stepped instantaneousty towards him, seized his hand, and conducted him to the next apartment. In the mean time the young lady recovered, and inquired with emotion for her Sydney > I begged her to re pose herself, and astured her he would Soon return; but She shook her head,, as if doubtful wshether she might believe me. At length the bell in the next room rang, ' — the Servant attended, and I could distinctly hear miss seaton’s voice; about ten minutes after, she entered, her countenance illumined with delight, and beckoning us to follow her, left Mr. Sydney with, lady Juliet. — We proceeded to the garden (where we were Some time after joined by the lovers) and were just entering an alcove, when the boy who usually carries our mdsages came up to us, and Spoke in a low voice to miss Seaton ^mr. Sydney threw his arm round lady Juliet, and turning
into
I
T HE  . lyy
into a Separate walk, we presently lost sight of them. Your charming friend desired we would return to the house, informed these lovers had been long attached, that her ladystiip had a prior claim to Mr. sydney’s heart, and that she entirely pardoned a conduct: towards herself less culpable than she at sirsi; imagined it — in the parlour we. found the clergyman of the nearest, village — our guests Soon after entered,, but miss Seaton Seemed the only ono in company perfectly at ease, and informing him we were ready, prepared; herself to give away the bride. At length the ceremony was accomplished, and Mr. Sydney approached to Salute his Juliet. — The fortitude which had hitherto Supported miss Seaton, at this instant forsook her, and but for Mr. sydney’s Supporting arm she had fallen lifeless to the ground— — longer able to contain himself,,
Look up, my Emma, cried the fran' '

t
»
138 .
tic youth, and bless the Sacrifice thou hast: commanded — at the Sound of his voice (he revived, and her eyes streaming with tears, retired to her own apartment: — the bridegroom Sat the picture of despair, his eyes riveted to the Spot where last he Saw her, then Suddenly recollecting himself, he arose, went up to lady Juliet, and prestlng her hand to his heart, attempted to Speak, but variety of contending pastions prevented utterance. — We left them together; and when I thought miss Seaton had Sufficiently indulged her grief, I went up to her room — but in vain I searched the house, the garden, and the alcove, she was nowhere to be Sound. I then questioned the Servants, and learned from them, that she got into a chaise, which waited at a Small distance, and which I concluded to be the Same that brought Mr. Sydney. My mother was of opinion we should not inform
7 either
 139
either him or lady Juliet of her departure, and when they inquired for her, we told them she begged to be excused appearing. — — Mr. Sydney seemed diffatissied with the answer; but expresiing his sense of civility, ordered his chaise : — my mother replied, that, flattering herself he would have honoured her with his company for the day, she had discharged it: ^ — he framed a polite excuse, and entreated she would perriiit her boy to fetch another, which arriving Soon aster, we embraced the bride, and wishing her happiness, bade her farewell.
Thus, madam, have I endeavoured to give you a clear account of the Surprising changes this day has witnessed. Your ladyship’s candour, by allowing for the confusion of my mind, will make apology unnecessary. Ah, lady Eliza! how greatly must you be interested for miss Seaton, when the intimacy.
4
«
J Tri n k e t.
timacy, only of a few weeks, has rendered her expresiibly dear to her
Clarinda Lawrence.
I
LETTER XXII
Miss Finchley to miss Melville.
?
an, ill wind that blows nobody good.” — I have been teasing old Darcy to inform me who were the authors of this. So justly celebrated line • — \n[importe, — peace be with them, while we descend from ' conjecture, and See the proverb verified.
I wrote you an account of the humorous accident, and of poor charlotte’s disappointment, which, indeed,, she felt too strongly, to leave, me an unfympathizing Spectator. Though
, Mr. Sydney used his utmost endeavours.
to silence that officious babbler, Same,
t
th
\

0
/
 i41,
the affair got wind, and a lady blue mantle was found in every house, to propagate the ridiculous intelligence. Fortunately a journey to London was proposed, as the most effectual means to silence the thousand busy tongues — or to avoid listening to them ’tis an ill wind, ” c— — heart danced to the proposal, and with almost forgotten agility I Sprung into the carriage that was to convey us
■ .... From purling brooks.
Old falhion’d halls, dull aunts, and ‘croaking
rooks.” '
Our journey was delightful; every Smart equipage delighted my attention; — I watched the mile stones with the most scrudulous exactness, and the landlord of every inn repeatedly answered my inquiry how far we were yet distant from London. At length, the rattle of coaches, and the glare of fiambeaux, announced our arrival, and
a Smart
142 The T r i n k e t.
a smart house in bruton street was prepared to receive us. miss Darcy unfolds with rapture the pleasures of this gay metropolis, and little doubts but in every alsembly she shall find a Sydney, with a heart more sensibie of her perfections — Good girl! she takes the world as it goesthough careless in attaining the friendship, and
/
unsolicitous to deserve the delightful applause paid by Superior merit, she enters every company with anxiety; — the coxcomb gazes on charms, of which none Seem more conscious than the posieffor; no compliment to them past es unheeded; and while men can flatter, Charlotte Darcy will be happy. This mornin<?, at breakfast, vas de bated the important question. What public place Should be first honoured with our appearance? Routs, drums, hurricanes, ridottos, auctions, masquerades' ' and plays, Charlotte d i Sc u sied w i t i 0 ri u 1 u a .1 s 1 o a ue n C e. We
then
4
 143
then proceeded to adjust the ceremonial of visits; nor was the fate of nations ever debated with profounder gravity.
You know not how greatly you are obliged for my condescension, friendship is a bagatelle fine ladies astiime at pleasure, and of which, they as readily dispoisess themselves; when distipa tion fatigues, they sty to it as a resource from ennui. In my con Science,
, I believe when our modern belles banished sincerity from the heart, they fixed proseffion on the tongue : whether indolence first gave rise to the arrangement, I am at a sofa to determine, though they have since found it mightily conducive to the ease they value: they had So often recourse to the little repository of protestation, that in process of time they Seldom opened their lips, but everlasting friendship, constant remembrance, and ceaseless Service, flew out, unthought
of
I
r
'144
of by the fair profestbr. — The coach waits; we .go to tavisfock street, and, truly fashionable, consume the first part of the day in preparation for our evening appearance.
T! o’clock.
‘‘ ila bdla che adoro^^]\^f^ returned from the opera — and Charlotte retired, So pleased, So delighted, not with
the theatre, the music, or the dancers,
\
but the most enchanting distinction; ' to be gazed upon, admired, applauded ‘ by a red coat cockade and shoulder
knot, those irresistible insignias — ah, how charming ]• — The house was crowded when we entered, and we had mosc probably stood the remainder of the performance, but that Some gentlemen Seeing our distress, rose, and politely insisted on our accepting their Seats : at the end of the Second act, we found they had all deserted us, but a very agreeable officer, who Seemed struck with miss darcy’s appearance,
i
 145
ance, and affiduousiy attentive in offering all the little civilities custom authorises. This was fusticient to stamp him the reigning favourite, the than who admires charlottes person is Sure to please; though wanting every amiable quality, wit, worth, and beauty are lavishly bestowed, till like pigma lion, she loves the self created form — you tell me from this Scene of gaiety you expect entertaining letters; let us see how philosophically you Support the disappointment, and believe tho’, your Belvidera wants wit to embellish trifles, sincerity is the inmate of her bosom, and guides the hand that as sures you of unalterable affection.
vol. I. H L E T
146
✓
L E T T E R xxlir.
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
OLD you believe it, Eliza, your
Emma is preparing to commence historian, and celebrate her own adventures : Surely they would prove an edifying and acceptable present to the world, and more clearly demonstrate the instability of fortune, than, the laboured treatises of unexperienced reason. The castle — the Sweet retreat, were neither of them my destined residence — behold me now landed on a quiet shore, fixed in the family of an honest Sarmer, and endeavouring to render myself useful, by engaging in domestic concerns: here my Eliza, I hope to Spend my quiet days, uninter rupted by future change. Alas! is not this the flattering expectation I
long
t
The T r i n k e t 147
long had termed; and yet, since last we parted, I have learned,
To bear with accident, and every change of various life,
To struggle with advcrfity.”
I had begun to write to you from the cottage — I had described a lovely stranger, and quitted my pen, to join her in the garden — the conversation Sell insensibly on love — she sighed — my heart reechoed the Soft complaint, and we gazed upon each other in silence. Ah, madam. Slid the Sweet Juliet, will you love the woman, whose only claim to your affection, is, that she will purchase it with unlimited confidence.” - — Think, Eliza, what I felt when she informed me, Sydney was likewise master of her heart. I
t
listened to the representation of his person and manners, which she drew in all their insinuating charms, with an emotion I did not attempt to dish
2 gttise,
I
148 The T r I N K E T.
guise, and which the mistaken girl attributed solely to friendship.
We reached the house, and breakfast was Scarcely over, when Mr. Sydney entered the room — I felt sincerely for the amiable Juliet, and my own trifling sorrows were lost in hers. — — I went up, and begged him to accompany me to the next apartment — — there I represented his juliet’s situation and her love. — He frequently interrupted me, but 1 insisted on being heard, and painted her charming form, her refined understanding, and artless simplicity of manners, in their most alluring colours. — I besought him to consider the misery that (unless prevented by himself) the artless Juliet must reap from her attachment; from her unprecedented flight; and that the good opinion of the world once slighted, is Seldom regained. — In stiort, Eliza, no plea likely to influence his heart, or argument that might convince his understanding
$
 140
i ^
derstanding was omitted; but it were endless to repeat the numberless objections he urged, and I blusti to Say, that your Emma prevented what she Would have given her life to have accomplished. — I informed Mr. Sydney, ' that his expectations from me were as ill-founded, as they were presumptuous: : had I remained ignorant of lady juliet’s prior claim, I would never have received bis addrestes, and that the insult he had already offered, was the last to which my innocent familiarity should subject me. — If reconciliation and friendship were the objects of his desire, the alliance I in treated him to accept, alone could purchase them. — Recollect Mr. Sydney, I continued, the merit you reject, nor consign to regret the beauty whose only Sailing is her love for you; and who, confiding in your honour, has exposed her own.”
H 3 Though
%
f
\
/
jgo
Though he had hitherto defended himself with infinite address, he appeared Softened by the last consideration — I pursued it, and I triumphed : “enough, thou lovely pleader, dispose of the man you only can command.”
Ah, Eliza! the painful Sacrifice was at length accomplished, and the Sentiment that had enabled me to Support the conflict, gave place to a thousand Soft ideas, while all the lover took pofieffion of my bosom— — Mr. Sydney must have arrived here in Some vehicle, I determined it Should convey me from a Scene I Sound myself unable to Support: my journey affords nothing new, but the motives by which it was induced, and the hospitable reception that completed it. Can I, my Eliza, be ungrateful, or unattached to these worthy people. — How greatly do native benevolence, and inborn politeness — outstiine that studied, artificial civility, the great are
proud
/
#
I
. ici
w
proud of! — here we have hearty friend ihip, unsullied with profession, yet ever ready to asiist — love without artifice— — without coquetry — and Swains without deceit.
The most dignified distinction here, is virtue; and we meet but to share the pleasures of Society: thus, my friend, I endeavour, by beholding every object that Surrounds me in the most advantageous light it can be placed, to render my abode delightful. — Ah, why am I not still under lady amelia’s protection 1 in my present situation, the, plaudit of my own heart, can only be Seconded by the Sew that have discernment to Search my motives. Forgive my anxiety, and believe me, the woman who Scorns to Secure the Suffrage of the vulgar, seldom merits the approbation of the wife.
G 4 L E T
>

LETTER XXIV
Sir George Danvers to Augustus Sydney, esq. '
“'Y'FSTERDAY were married,
Augustus Sydney, and lady Juliet osnay.” — I Sat down, with a determined resolution to laugh at my crestfallen Benedick, but, on Second
m
thoughts, the raillery would be as cruel as unserviceable. — My poor Sydney 1 — v/cil, it is infinitely diverting; mais courage mon ami I thanks to lady Amelia, you are perfectly skilled in old proverbs, and when things are i at the worst, I need not inform you
they must mend.
You and I, you remember, have frequently puzzled our own heads, and distracted our tailors, that we might lead the fashions: we have asiumed a thousand fantastic fooleries, that we
might
\
. 153
might show how prettily they became us, and have receive infinite diversion from our awkward copyists. No doubt two such smart fellows will make even matrimony fashionable, and the gay, the gallant, ths agreeable, smit with the ambition of re
/
us (but without our charming ability to animate every state) crowd to the temple. On my word, Sydney, as a reward for the pains we take to reestablish the forgotten deity, our images, curiousiy carved in marble, should adorn the altar. — Ha 1 ha! ha! I foresee a most invincible objection, the hypocisitic fair ones, forgetting the god they came to worship, would, with universal consent, petition Prometheus to animate the lovely statues. — And art thou, Augustus in Sober sadness, absolutely married? Heavens! in what penitential fit did the black robed minister rob thee of repose? — to make Juliet the wife of thy bosom,
H 5 nor
154 Th E
nor once hint the premeditated resolution: : you was right; these rigid notions of honour, though they might have excited my admiration, my friendship should have prevented you from executing. — Really you poisess a happy forgetfulness; and if your letter now before me was not a plain conviction, I could hardly believe an Emma Seaton ever had existence. That amidst the pleasures of your happy situation he is still recollected, a letter only, can affure
Your
Danvers.
$
LETS

i
✓
 155
\
/ t
LETTER XXV
i
Miss Seaton to Mrs. Lawrence.
CHALL I confess, my good Mrs.
Lawrence has apparent reaspn to, accuse her Emma of ingratitude? — Received and entertained with the warmest benevolence, She returned her disinterested friendship by involving herself and amiable daughter in unexpected difficulty, then fled from the Scene of trouble, and left them to sus tain the anxiety she caused. — Happily, madam, I had acquainted you with the occurrences of my life, and confelsed, without reserve, the attachment I found it impossible to conquer :
— lady Juliet too, that fatal morning, made me her confidant : — this amiable woman, formerly acquainted with Mr. Sydney, still nourished the tender
Sentiments he had inspired. — I would
willingly
V
ft
156' .
willingly have returned the trust sho reposed within my bosom, could I have done it without increasing her affliction, without convincing her this faithless lover had forgot bis vows, and made us equally the dupes of his professions— — dear madam, you are acquainted with the various changes of the day, and your heart will best suggest the motives which compelled me to quit your hospitable roof. — Lady juliet’s discernment must have informed her of what I endeavoured to conceal — and Mr. Sydney I wished to avoid — pardon the sentiment, whether it had its source in vanity, or proceeded from far stretched refinement; but I confess I felt a conscious pride in keeping him ignorant of my dwelling. — Am 1 yet forgiven? or does my sweet Clarinda hear you exclaim, “The foolish girl, how unsatisfactory is this reasoning ?” — Come then, my friend, 1 will show you my
whole
 157
whole soul; — know that I could not bear to remain a burden on my generous benefactress, or that your little income should be lestened by my participation. — Thus, my ever honoured madam, you find we mujl have parted, at a time, perhaps, when increasing, friendship had rendered the separation more painful: — at present, I solely have reason to regret the change: where shall I seek the gentle mo ralizer, the experienced counsellor; she, who knew So well to Soften Sorrow, to revive the languid expectation, and to exclude despair \ Tell Clarinda how much I feel her loss, how sincerely I regret our pleasant walks, and believe me.
My dear Mrs. Lawrence,
Your much obliged and gratesul
Emma.
)
LET'
'The T r fn k e t.
LETTER XXVII
0
Augustus Sydney, Esq, to Sir
George Danvers.
T ACHE notice, Danvers, the last
time I wrote to you was in compliance with your request .* now to atone the absence of other entertainment, I take up my pen merely to trifle away the tedious minutes; but I shall be with you shortly : the country has lost its attractions — the winds rise — the frees are stripped of their verdure, and my ideas are more unenlivening than the desoiate prospect that inspires them.
That you may not, however, imagine Augustus Sydney could Support a state of frigid inactivity, I must introduce you to a family lately fettled in this neighbourhood, Mr. Stepney studied at Cambridge with unwearied, ', diligence,,
 159'
diligence, and early threw away his books that he might read mankind. Reflection and observation perfect study, and politeness adds grace to understanding. — In Mr. Stepney, Solidity and elegance embellish each other, the Scholar and the gent}eman are united : in his diseourse, learning is free from pedantry, while ease, chearfulness, and good-humour convey instruction from his lips. — The clergyman who accompanied him in his travels, to whom he is remarkably attached, has, ever since, continued with him : — a Mr. Maynard, as singular in his taste, as in the virtues of his heart. — His language is simple, but his Sentiments are Sublime; and while his arguments convince the understanding, his example, influences the conduct. A prosesifed admirer of antiquity, he dwells with rapture on the sculpture, the paintings, the manners of the ancients; and, more from
7 judgement
io
judgement than false delicacy, points out and condemns the contrast. He contemplates with delight the wonders of the creation, and is charmed with nature, even in her most unpleas ing forms. We were yesterday in my phaeton, upon a barren heath, and on the brow of a precipice, shivering with cold, the morning lowered, the hanging isicles rattled to the hollow winds, and my philosopher admired the contrast, — praised the goodness, - — the wisdom, that ordained the Sweet variety. We have also in a cottage, a few miles from us, a misanthropist, who avoids the Society he wants ability to enjoy. I fancy the world are ready to thank a man in his own way — those who are never pleased, will Seldom please; and he that he is So expert in discovering the defects of mankind, will be frequently esteemed the original from whence he draws Such admirable copies— — I yawn
inces
%
V
i
. ii
*»
incestantly, and most: happily Sevigny comes to dissipate the melancholy: — oh, you would die, to See him, with the utmost attention, listening to lady amelia’s description of a nest, or to the detail of her feathered dependents. — But I forgot to inform you, that I intend being in London in about a week; and you know, George, a good house is necestary: will you be So obliging, to take the trouble of hiring
one — in St. james’s street — Pall mall — or anywhere; — the situation I fix on will doubtl’efs become the centre of the beau monde. — Is there no old gentlewoman of your acquaintaince, that would engage our domestics? The talk would not be difficult, for lady Juliet is easily pleased; she is gentleness itself — and commendation could only detract from the merit of
ft
Augustus Sydney.
I
262 .
0
LETTER XXVII
miss Seaton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
T F the unexpectedly meeting an amiable friend calls for congratulations, let me demand my dear lady eliza’s : but that she may share the joy she wishes me, I postpone the claim, till I informed her, that, walking near the farm, according to my usual custom, I was surprised by the appearance of men on horseback; I would have Sought the shelter of a neighbouring shed, but the persons who caused the alarm, were so near, that I should but have exposed in endeavouring to screen myself. The servant rid forward to open a gate they were to pass through, while his master walked bis horse, as if something uncommon in the appearance of a wo
mans
t i
The T rin k e t, 163
man, in that Solitary situation, demanded his observation; his too curious attention became impertinent, and not daring to look up, I bent my steps towards the house, but the stranger threw himself from his horse, “and can it postibly be miss Seaton ?’* cried be, in a voice with which I was perfectly acquainted. — Sir Harry Edgerton was before me — imagine ths kindest things friendship, could dictate, and think them lavished on your Emma. In apologising for too attentively remarking a woman, whose elegant form he thought greatly resembled his mils Seaton, he politely complimented charms, which he prosested it wasim posiible to mistake; and in concluding his Speech, siightly hinted his curiosity to learn what change of temper, or of fortune, could have So greatly altered my situation. Think not I hesitated to remove his doubts, or that the unsortunate attachment was
A
forgot L
%
164
forgot: no, Eliza, I must have defpiled myself had I attempted, by Softening language, to palliate my weakness; or to have Secured his esteem by an ungenerous prudence, which had proved me unworthy to postess it. He was charmed with what he encouragingly termed my noble srankness; blamed Mr. Sydney; then recollecting his heroism in receiving lady Juliet as his bride, was lavish of encomiums. — He begged I wouldinform him, where he might have the pleasure of waiting on me; and when I had pointed out my habitation, mounted his horse, and with a graceful bow, rode from me. At dinner, I ashed my honest friends, whether Sir Harry Edgerton had a house, or connexions, in this part of the world : you would have been.delighted, could you have wit nested their surprise at my ignorance, or heard the hearty praise they gave their generous landlord : I had touched
s
 165
CD a topic on which they talked with rapture f and the unpolished, though exprestive eloquence, proceeding from hearts incapable of deceit, was an incense never offered but at the Ihrine of merit. Excuse my expatiating on this subject: : — Eliza, how welcome is the appearance of a valued companion, when we have been used to look around us, on faces unenlightened with the smile of fisiendlhip. Your letter as just brought me — how unjustly you accuse your Emma, and knowing that the reason still continues, which first induced her to reject your flattering proposa), why will you reduce her to the painful neceshty of contending not only with her own inclinations but with her dearer Self — her loved Eliza?
Though my father would not dis close the reason that prompted him to refuse his Sanction to my desire of visiting you, it perhaps acquired weight
8 from
\
ro
from Secrecy j and as I never knew him guided by caprice, I willingly as quiefced; in what; I confess I was not able to unriddlewere I now to come to you, it would Surely prove that I repined at the authority to which I Submitted— — would have me appear in the gay world, my friend; and kindly conclude, the numerous circle would view your Emma with ' your flattering partiality. Dear Eliza,
I laugh at the mistake, to which your ignorance of that world you court me to, betrays you.' There you have yet to learn, what the goodness of your own heart never could Suggest; and a slight Survey of life will teach you, those who have nothing to offer but gratitude, are denied even an opportunity of exerting that. — We are told
f
‘‘ Ambition first sprung from the bkft abodes,
/
The glorious fault of angels, and of gods.”
How
I
ft
\
KE  . 167
How then is your Emma degenerated, whose heart, engrolied by friendship, knows not to admit it. Still let this da ngerous pasiion continue to animate the breast of kings and heroes; women and friends aspire but to the elegant reciprocations of Social love. Yes, Eliza, neither the tempting picture you have drawn of pleasures that await me, nor the prospects of advantage you have unfolded, have power to lure me from this Solitude. — I opened your letter, I perused it — and I sighed a Second time, and J sighed still deeper. — Unfeeling girl! are you yet to be informed, the always wise may excite our wonder, but cannot conciliate our affection. Why was Mr. Sydney So studiousiy avoided? and from what part of my conduct, have you learned the necesiity of Surpresiing his name? — Let me deliver you, Eliza, from the" disingenuous Secrecy j — while my pasiion was innocent, reason strengthened
168
ened the fond approbation his merit enforced. — The scene in the grotto, previous to my departure, first: taught me men were born to triumph over the tender, and to delude the simple, I resolved by tearing Mr. Sydney from my heart, never more to subject myself to a like mortifying affront. — The cure was nearly accomplished, when I again found him, and found him worthy of my affection— — amiable, I yielded him to another, and in accus toming myself to view him as the hus band of lady Juliet, love has lost itself in friendship. Tell me then, where does he seek amusement? — Gay, Sprightly, and. agreeable; the park, the opera, and play, divide his joyous hours; or tenderly domestic. Some are, perhaps, dedicated to his Juliet. — That, happiness, frequently banished from the great, may take sanctuary in his dwelling, sincerely prays. Your '
Emma Seaton
%
169
.
LETTER XXVIII
Col. Lester tocnarles Elliot, esq.
T T is easy, Charles, to teach others wisdom; every man is a Zeno for his friend; and, like my Speculative philosopher, can preach up reason, stoicism, discretion. — ‘‘ To Rome with reason” — or, prithee, retain it, the guide of graver mortals— — Satisfy you, however, this affair is by no means the northeast plus ultra of my wishes; the troublesome monitor I have just banished will sometimes intrude, and loudly demand to be fatissied. — Hang it! cannot a man play the fool a little, but these bosom serpents mark every digresiion with a sting. — Heavens! what animation do the features of my Charlotte want? — could vivacity give new lightnings to those eyes, or Sensibility encrease their softness. — In the gay tulip, we Seek not the Sragrance of the sweet briar — we gaze on tyre lovely blosiom, nor repine at the backwardness of the fruit. And, however naturalists
I may
170
may tell us, the things that are most useful are graced with the most ravishing beauty; experience will contradict or silence them. Who would hesitate to prefer the Swan to her awkward and ambling copyist; and yet, none will refuse astent to the Superior utility of the latter. — All this is mighty conclusive; but I dare Swear, that a hundred miles from Charlotte, you exclaim with Juba,
“’tis not a fet of features or complexion.
The tindlure of a skin, that I admire.”
It is a Sad thing to have the wrong fide of an argument; however, Charles,
I can rave in heroics as loud as you; and drown your reasoning, in
“But Oie is fair — Oh 1 how divinely fair.’*
And how much longer must this voluntary retirement continue, ere with an old coat, a white beard, and an iron lamp, you deliver maxims of prudence to reform this generation, and guide the next? You must confess I am the most conjiderate young man in the world; So Solicitous for the benefit of
post
✓

J
posterity, that I forbear to press your return to the metropolis, lest the hours, dedicated to their improvement, should be most 'unphuofophically employed J or my Epictetus commence Epicurean. Yet, if you wish to quicken yout relish for groves and streams, come to bruton street; and, as love and Solitude endear each other, I warrant we will Send you back a most enthusiastic admirer of the rural — and the stupid. I know the singularity of your Sentiments; we have together traced the portrait, and dwelled on the thousand virtues, with which your Sancy hath embellished the ideal form. Here you will find them drawn to the lise— — modest, lively. Sentimental, and discreet; miss Finchley pleases without designing it: she wins the heart, ere we are conscious of the attack — but
“Charlotte is fairest where thousands are fair.”
It is impossible to be otherwise than captive to her beauty. And, to do
I z the
172
the girl justice, her heart is not guarded on' all sides j on a short attack, it promises to capitulate: after all, Charles, nne affair de coeur, is at best but a silly bufiness, yet mighty necestary to trifle off that trifle, life. Come, come, Elliot, clap spur to your horse,, .view your heroine, and admire mine; or — suppose you give me a commission;; court Belvidera, marry her as your proxy; and rerhain, thine and charlotte’s very devoted
Lester.
LETTER XXIX
/
Sir Harry Edgerton to miss
Seaton.
_ t
HE inconceivable reluctance with which I last night parted from miss Seaton, was too evident to escape observation; could she as easily have penetrated the heart which sighed to unburthen itself, she had. discovered
friendship, esteem, and respectful ten
(y derness
0
t
 I 73
derness courting her acceptance. The generality of your Sex, madam, would despise a style untinged with flattery, and ridicule the affectionate admirer, whose address, an equal stranger to deceit and adulation, breathes but the honest dictates of sincerity. Examine your heart, my charming friend, that heart which Seeks felicity in imparting it; it will plead for me with the strongest eloquence; and induce you to receive the man, who finds affluence itself unsatisfactory, till your acceptance teaches her
* _
to charm. — I have been unfortunate; you delight in Softening affliction : I have felt the anguish ofdisappointment; your example will instruct me to rise Superior to it. I have been young, I have loved with the ardour of enthusiasm;; the sigh which heaves my bosom, is a tribute to the most amiable of, her Sex. Ah, miss Seaton, why did my tongue refuse to obey its master, when it should have Sworn you only have power to erase the Sorrows he laments
1 3 — why
174 Th E Tri N k e t,
— — why salter, when it Should have entreated
you to accept the hand, tyre heart, the name of
Edgerton,
wij,, i, ^ ^, m, -,,,, i. >■ ■■
LETTER XXX
Augustus Sydney, esq. t
Lucius Sevigny.
TJA!! 1 ha! well, take your kingdoms, your empires, ye ctesars, ye Alexanders— — and unmolested enjoy all the pleasures they can afford — leave me still the dear delight the Spirit of avanture gives me, and take the world. ** Oh! woman, lovely woman, nature made you.” — Why, faith, nature did make you — and in you formed, all that could touch the heart of Sydney with rapture, joy, and exstacy. On the day — “the brightest Sure that ever rose.’* Shenstone and richardson Swore I should accompany them to the masquerade, which was to be at the Pantheon last night — with an indolent indifference,
I or ^
 175
I ordered my valet to bring me a white and gold domino to St. james’s, and tumbled into shenstone’scoach with very little alacrity — ‘the coachman, who had rather more Spirit, did us the favour Somehow or other I suppose — God' knows how — to overturn a very elegant equipage, just: as we got into oxford road; in which were a gentleman, his wife, and another lady, acquaintance of shenstone’s, whom we consequently took with great pleasure into the carriage, and by the light of the stambeau, the elegance of figure conspicuous in the younger struck me exceedingly. — Confound the Champagne, thought I, it is for ever drawing my fenses into a Snare,, which will one day or other be too powerful for my judgement. — I had drank a good deal that day, and it was useless to make any more reflections about it. — I swore myself the protector of the charming Jesiy, and with all my usual gattee de coeur, began to make love to her the moment we entered the room.
I 4 jvjy
I
«
'i
/
176
— “My God, cried she, is itposiibleyou can think me So weak, as to credit Such pofestions as these, from a man who has never even Seen my face — cease, I beg of you, to mortify my vanity.” —
** Cruel Miss scarsdale, and is this the reward for all that diligence with which I have so eagerly sought an introduction to your acquaintance. — You are, indeed, greatly mistaken, if you are not convinced every lovely feature that envious mask now veils, (Shenstone had whispered me she was an angel) is deeply engraven on my heart. — Ah, added I, presiing her hand, when fortune has done so much for me, do not unjustly fix that cruel sting, your disdain cannot fail of bringing it in my faithful breast, ’* Returning from gaining Surther intelligence of Shenstone, I found an impertinent fellow hovering round her, and who had plagued her with Some silly question, in half a dozen languages J ' to which she Seeqied by no means to
chuse making an answer. “Who have
you
 177 '
you got there, ” Said I, observing her embarrasirnent. ‘‘ A man, replied she, who has no merit but that of having
learned to express an idea in several languages, which is not worth hearing in oned. —
The fellow Seemed inclined to quarrel with me. — I was silly — and Some very high words pasted. miss scarsdale terrified, taking off her malk. Seized me by the arm; and entreating I would do
%
the Same — begged me to conduct her to her friend. Oh, Danvers, I could at that moment do nothing. — The amiable Sensibility exprested in the most beautiful face I had ever Seen, joined to the grace sul dignity of her figure, left me unmindful that I had repeatedly Sworn, those charms were familiar to me— —
‘‘ madam, Said I, as I led her down th e room; my life were well lost for So much beauty; and my honour would cease to deserve the name, could it know any other command than yours.” — But our evil genius was not So easily shaken
I C off:
lys
off; unmasidng, he followed us, and discovering himself to be Barton, was fifty times more boisterous, more impertinent. — It was useless for me to attempt to reason with him — he had Swallowed it at his tavern, in Burgundy and claret., — I gave him a card of my residence; it would not do, and my distressed fair one insisted on getting into her chair. — “Cruel girl. Said I, to have known you only to know that I must be miserable: in being banished your company and conversation.”
“No : answered she, blushing, you. have no need to Sear being banished them, while it is agreeable to you to call in Berkley square. My mother has a card party tomorrow;; I tell her she may hope for the Savour of Seeing you of the number — With rapture
accepted the invitation, and after following her chair home in my own, was. Set down at my house;; then, as musingly Sauntered upstairs, for the first * me the reflection had occurred that
night,.
\
’ 179
night, recollected I had a wife. — Ah, said I, we take our piety, our liberty, with us to the altar, and Sacrifice the latter to the former there; but our pastions we bring back with us— — mine can own no mistress but miss scarsdale. Pity me, Danvers; perhaps when'.i See; her next, a cruel coldness may have taken place of that complacency : the in distbluble knot may have reached her ears; and the married Sydney must be content with the cold civility of politeness, while the lover at the masquerade had nothing left to wish. — I closed not: my eyes the whole night— — lids Seemed. Searful to exclude an imago,, lovelier than ever before had struck my wondering sight : but may I perish,; if one idea has entered my imaginatibn'i Vvshich has not been pure as her Soul, and. spotless as the Snowy whiteness of. her dress. Barton came to me with his elder brother this morning, and apologised for his behaviour, with more gentility than I had thought him capable
1.6 of — -
I
io
of — I swore I too was intoxicated — but
9
with this difference, that every moment encreased my admiration, and added despair to madness — while his had in a a few hours quitted him, with the pleasing reflection that nature had put it in his power to make ample compensation for all the disadvantages of art. Adieu — I am going to equip myself; would I could Say for conquest: — but it is for Jefiyi — and“
“cannot wound her.
For fly has all his darts, '’
-- -- — -- -- -- -- -- ■ ■ -- - ■ ^ ^ 1. - I -
LETTER XXXI
Miss Seaton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
gliza, you are obeyed — nay more, your kind entreaties but enabled your friend more cheerfully to execute, what her heart, not waiting your sanction, had determined; I answered Sir Harry Edgerton with an explicitness many would condemn; but I am ignorant
why
 ir
why candour should languish in suspence<r^ or a man of worth feel the power he has imparted. — Though Sensible that modest pride enhances the value of Semale ccncestions, I would avoid the appearance of an extorted promise; nor make the man I married, So poor a compliment, as reluctantly to accept his offered hand. Let those of our Sex, who mistake reserve for modesty, endeavour to disguise their feelings, while I — pardon the comparison — ‘‘respect thyself" has ever been my favourite tenet : and you must remember, how warm an advocate I am for a principle of felf im portance, which generally proves a powerful auxiliary to the virtue that gave it birth. The timid man, determined to think of himself no higher than he ought to think, admires instances of virtue, which, but for pusilanimity, he might rival J and he never conquers, because he trembles to engage. — Lest you laugh at my vainly arrogating respect from the imaginary Superiority, let us return to
Sir
I fz
Sir Harry. — Ah, Eliza, how often have I combated an impertinent opinion, highly disgraceful to our Sex, that a woman never marries her first: choice f now, must 1 decline the lists : alas, is not my example more convincing than my’ arguments? Where then shall we Seek for delicacy, for constancy, if they are not inmates of the female breast Pity me, Eliza; and yet believe Sir Harry is tyre man I painted; fweetness and vivacity are conspicuous in his countenance, and humanity is the characteristic of his heart; the Sentiments I feel for him, he: only can inspire: more tranquil, yet tender as those I once experienced, they partake the softness of love, and the unshaken firmness of friendship and esteem.. Indeed I do not need the pity I requested.; or if you will bestow it, ah,, pit3r your Emma, that she cannot with confidence look upon her destined husband,, declare her heart has felt for him? alone..
Yourr
, i
 isg
Your offers are very kind; but neat ness and simplicity are the first of bridal ornaments, and all I hope to boast. Nor am I wholly destitute of less unfashionable embellishments; a castcet of my mother’s, the keys of which my father gave me during his last illness, and' which curiosity has not yet impelled me to open, will, I doubt not, afford more than I wish for. — Where is. lady Juliet, miss Sydney, and her brother ^ Start not, Eliza; that brother is no longer loved. After perusing sir harry’s letter, 1 hesitated — I questioned my heart;. it answered as I wished, and! cleared every Scruple..
“Beyond the fix’d and fettled rujes^
Of vice and virtue in the fchools.y
0
Had I doubted my ability to love, hoj nour, and obey, or could I have beea hot just to Edgerton, L had,, Scorned to become
his wife.
I See him from my window; he crosses the nearest field, and questions an honest labourer — he gives him money : — «-
ah.
0
i st  .
ah, how amiable he appears, how worthy the affection of your
Emma.
... ^ I.,., ft I.. ■ ■..
LETTER XXXII
Miss Finchley to Miss Melville.
#
T Have laughed immoderately at my dear lvjey’s mighty prudential epis stle. And So, you really wish me to accept this man, who, with an air as Solemn as a parish funeral, and a brain as vacant as his countenance. Sets up Sora wit, and a philosopher : happily for himself, be is too insignificant for conviction; and enjoys, unenvied, the eminence of imaginary Same : a fame however, you will pardon me if I declare, I have no ambition to participate. — Happy Darcy, what a contrast is thy Swain: and he requires no (hade to raise his virtues. Were I to paint manly beauty in its most pleasing form, from colonel Lester I would take the portrait : but he poffestes an understanding that would
give
 1b5
give grace even to deformity; and his manners are more elegant than his person. It is near the hour he appointed to be here; yet Mrs. and miss Darcy are not returned from their morning visits: I will take my embroidery, and wait for them in the parlour.
(Mi II ■ I ■■ ■■ ■mm I II ■ I M II ■ 1
bless the girl, did She find her beau So very susceptible, as to apprehend eyes
V
should melt the waxen fabric? — In the midst of a conversation, Supported on lester’s side with that grace and Spirit which gives irresistible Source to all his Sentiments, Charlotte entered; the frown on her countenance Spoke her not well Satisfied with her proxy : she turned to me, and with a Scornful Smile, holding out a paper she had in her hand, “Belvidera, Said she, go up into my dreffing room, there you will find pens and ink, answer this note, and remember I am engaged.’’ — He Swore the note should not deprive them of my company : but I arose, and left them teteatete
i
♦
186
tete; — lovers, I am told, find this the happiest: Situation. — Fortunate Charlotte! — envy’s too mean a passion to adopt, or — let us Seek another Subject, Shall I, Lucy, sink myself beneath the woman I despise We were at the Pantheon last night; in our train were Several agreeable men, Some vying for my notice; but colonel Lester taught me to disregard them. — He too, I fear, will instruct your Belvidera in a more painful Science, whose rudiments, are sighs. Still this man — come then; whyimpose a voluntary constraint? Some people have esteemed an astertion, that writing to a friend, is but thinking on paper; a good apology for ill formed, and ill connected Sentiments : but this, I dare not offer : and I have exposed ideas to my Lucy, I otherwise must blush my thoughts should dwell on. Correct me, rny charming friend : though I am strangely altered, your reproofs will be
received wdth the Same affection that
/
dictated them, and your precepts cheer
fullj

fully embraced. — Since we have been in town, the Darcys too, are changed; even in their most familiar advances, there is a certain pride that seems to make a merit of condescension : — oris it, that discontent stamps every object with power to encrease the disease. It is of little consequence; unmerited favours are more painful to Support than undeserved neglect. I write in charlotte’s dresiing room, and colonel les ter is still below. When she came home, he was entertaining me with a description of his friend j a man, who, he declares postestes So great a deference for bis opinion, that he loves, merely from his report. — I Smiled that Elliott had consigned his heart, a jewel, to receive the Sorm his factor best approved : — while Lester, en badinage, threw himself at my feet, and with infinite pleasantry, personated his friendr ah, Lucy, why will men always deceive f
LET

a 88
LETTER XXXIIL
Sir Harry Edgetron to Edwari?'
Willis, esq.
M’^ Willis, the consent is granted,
and granted with an unreluctant frankness, inexpresiibly engaging. — Tomorrow miss Seaton becomes my wife 5 her blooming beauty, the refinement of her Sentiments, the purity of her heart— — how grateful is mine for the invaluable' treasure— — yet nineteen, my Emma forgets, or overlooks the difference in our age; with generous candour she declares her partiality, while I, heaven is my witness, would part with all my wealth to place her in an eligible situation, could I at the Same time indemnify her for accepting if. Where then is the use of gold, and wherefore is it lounht with Such avidi
O
ty, since we feel its value but in imparting it, and an ill judging world prescribe its use? Ah, Willis, why are mankind at enmity? Though Separately,
in
 189
in search of happiness, we all unite to bar it from each other. Either the lovely Seaton continues the sport of fortune, or takes shelter in my bosom: : alternative, could I bestow the happiness she merits. — I gaze on her with transport and regret; I view her as a victim destined to be Sacrificed; a blooming charmer, with every beauty to excite, and ' continue the most ardent tenderness, given to a man, early callous to every Sentiment but friendship. pleasures unmixed were not designed the portion of inferior beings: we must not reject happiness, only because it may be heighten ed, nor make reflection prod active of dis quiet. The rose and thorn grow together; and Sure it were folly to neglect the one, and Seek the sharpness of the other. Perhaps, Willis, I am the first of my Sex who has repined that youth and beauty were Surrendered to his arms: but there areseelings, reason forfeits its name in attempting to account for,, The writings demanded my attendance
in
tt)o
in town last week, and I was at youf lodgings a few hours after you Set off for K —. Miss Seaton has not betrayed the llightestcuriofity to learn the Settlements: flattering confidence! how despicable the man, who would hesitate in returning it tenfold into thy bosom. -- — yesi Emma, thou art the arbitress osmy fatcj and thy inclinations, my rule of conduct. In companion to you, I would change the Subject j but my heart still dictates, and Emma is its only theme: poor Willis, the correspondence continuing, yoi are mightily to be pitied j for I cannoi ' give you even the hope of an alteration : and you, who have experienced “Hov much the wiyh is dearer than the bride, ', will not wonder at the future letters o:
Your
Edgerton
LETI

r
 191
LETTER XXXIV
Mr. Hervey to Augustus Sydney,
esquire.
pardon, dear Mr. Sydney, the anxiety of a poor old man, still tenderly felicitous for your welfare — pardon him, if alarmed by a report that your behaviour in the most Sacred of all engagements — the matrimonial tie, is not what the generous principles imbibed by nature, and (may the vanity of an aged lutor hope forgiveness, when it leads him to add) cultivated by education, gave the most promising assurance of. Yes, Mr. Sydney, “formed to engage all hearts, and charm all eyes, ” you forget that vice in you is doubly culpable : it is no longer “a monster of Such hideous mien virtue in another would be less charming — Recollect then the numbers, who, caught by the lively elegance of your manners, plunge with you into excestes, where the guilt indeed is theirs; but the refined.
192 Tri n k e t.
CD the Specious polish is only yours to give. With a genius Sprightly and active, far beyond the common lot, you quit the happy scenes of domestic joy,. which the beauty and tenderness of lady
Juliet would ever afford you; and plunge into tumult, in Search of a felicity, which never can be yours. You feel no longer for lady Juliet, perhaps, the pashon which once actuated you — and you would love : but reflect, Mr. Sydney, that the hours of youthful chimaeras are past. For my part, there is nothing appears to me more astonishing than the general use and acceptance of a term, of which one part of the world know nothing but the Sound, and the other are Sar more indebted to the ideas a warm imagination has Suggested, than any reality; for the fupposed existence of love, is the first sensation ©ur School girls are told they must guard their hearts against. — And a boy is ush ’ cred into lise, fraught with the expectation of shortly meeting with Some fair
Delia,
I
tste  . 193
elia, who is to become the mistress of his Soul. Of the former, after having ■ ran over the most celebrated ornaments of a circulating library, we find’ the greater part dresiing out a favourite partner at her country ball, with all the imaginary perfections of a Maude ville, or a Sir Charles Grandiibn. — While he, perhaps, incapable of the ardours she Suggested, or wishing Some more admired nymph the tribute of them, repays only the cold civility of acquaintance. — Tired with cruelty, where her imagination had fondly framed though reverse; Some other youth presents himself, and is in his turn forgotten : at length the partner of her life, is brought to her by her parent — she then difeards her past ideas, as the romance of youth; and seeks in the arms of friendship and esteem, that happiness, which till then. Seemed to her only the attendant on the Softer pasiion.
If in the vacations of School, the fictions of an Ovid, or the tender strains
K of
I
194 .
of the Sicilian muse, have sunk into the heart of our young hero, he sits and dreams of a lady Frances, or Miss Jenny, whom his sisters allure him is the prettiest girl in the w’orld — he looks at her, and perceives the roses of her cheek rivalled only by the vermilion of her lips. Her eyes. Sparkling with innocence and gaiety, recall every idea the poets have painted of the Loves and Graces: totally a stranger to the refinements of sentiment himself, he feels not the want of it in lady Frances, and ima
• *
gines he has fixed his heart for ever. Fearful of the raillery of his companions, and too ineloquent to join the Sprightly chit-chat of his sisters, he fancies his passion more violent, from the necesiity of confining it within his own breast; till the parade of removal to a university rouzes him from his stupor — he returns, he Sees lady Frances, but the allusion is vanished. — Vanity and affectation have Succeeded the native sweetness of her manners — a round of
6 modish
The Tri N K E T
modish disiipation has banished the roses from her cheek— — then bends his pursuit in search of some other object on whom to fix his pasiion; and pastes his life in an ideal expectation, that he shall one day meet with some other fair, who shall appear to him with the once fancied charms of his lady Frances. — Mistaken man, he Scorns a happiness within his reach, and would grasp a shadow which must for ever flv before him. — Till the difeases of age, joined with the more Severe ones of a constitiition broken by diffination, brings conviction of his folly : then, if he weds at all, he • weds for fortune — or, perhaps indif ' Serent to the yoke, he defers it till the hand of death arrests him in an unloolc ed for moment, and he sinks to the grave with neglect; or if he is wept, they are the tears of joy, shed by dependents — but what fate must be reserved for him, who blessed with all of cood this world can offer — Pardoivnie, Mr. Sydney, I would only wish to convince you,
K 2 that
«
196
that you love lady Juliet more than any other woman — that you might be happy, — — that I still look on you as my child — that I am
Your ever faithful
hervev**
_jlll u uiji_1_jl^, - ■ I. -. I I, ft
LETTER XXXV
Augustus Sydney, esq. to Mr.
Hervey.
iwhy what a pox P
** Give her the h^ir.*’ — — He Spoke, and rapp’d
his boxi,
"thy now’"are you really, my dear
Mr. Hervey, still unconvinced that the eloquence of a Cicero himself would be insufficient to draw me from the error of my ways— — did I say! no faith, let me correct the expression;; injure me if you do not fuppose me the best husband in the world. — i’ll give you a proof of it — -1 remember Some Such a musty lecture as yours, had put a Sew Serious thoughts in my head, (God
$
knows
%
r
/
Tri N K E T. t97
knows how they came to travel a road they are so totally unused to) when being tite a tite with my wife, Sitting in an armchair by the fire, a tooth pick in my hand, ** Pray, my dear. Said I, looking archly enough at her, do not you think vve are an amazingly happy couple — am I not an excellent husband!! that it is my custom to be vain of anything — only I am afraid, there are people in the world, not altogether convinced of it.*’
“I am convinced of it, I affure you, Mr. Sydney, answered she, smiling;; would I have you different from what you are, in the minutest trifle : — but, for heaven’s sake, how came you to think on Such a Subject? to Say truth, I believe it is the first time you was ever guilty of it.”
Really, my dear lady Juliet — but you flatter me — I always intended to play Benedick to admiration, hnd indeed never dreamed I had not Succeeded till — now actually, you are very happy Ju
K 3 liet.
198 The
liet, are not you, presiing her hand, “Ah, said she, throwing her arm round my neck, united to my charming Mr. Sydney, who could be otherwise There Hervey, did I not tell you fc ' the sex dote on me to distraction, Ah, one tender accent from a voict like mine, would ruin half a million o]
9
them. Hear me then — I have the ten derest esteem, nay, a veneration Sorted Jct iet; but the narrow track of conjugal felicity may Suit the Sober trudge of a Soul unelevated by nature, or won down by art; but mine, brooks no
Such bondage. ^disappointed, but oh how nobly, in the only point it eve fixed on with an ardour dictated by pro priety — lise would appear a blank, unactuated by tumult, by noise and Solly I must be gay — or wretched. — Judge(
then, if you had not better leave lad' Juliet a husband, with whom her fondness, her generosity lead her not to b' diffatissied; than one, whose moroseness and infensibility, would leave he
n
 199
no hope of future amendment. Cupid, my dear sir, having once quitted the temple of Hymen on a frolic, when he would have returned to it, found the avenues so crowded with the votaries of Plutiis, who seemed too regardless of him to make way for his admistion, that enraged he Swore an eternal enmity to that union, in vvhich he was now persuaded avarice had So large a part.. And taking his flight, left the dominions of love peopled by the staves of riches.
Really a very pretty little allegory: I only told it you, though, because you Seem to me one of those old-fashioned Souls, who esteem love and marriage, the natural consequences of each other; whereas, and you may take my vv^ord for it — but you are a Sensible fellow, and can never be so confoundedly mistaken. — Adieu! believe me as much obliged to you, as you can wish me; and as perfectly Satisfied with my own conduct as — I can wish myself— —
4 L E T
20q
LETTER XXXVI
Sir Harry Edgerton to Edward
Willis, Esq.
TN what terms, Edward, shall I give vent to transport?? - — may complain, and grief account its sorrows, but gratitude is the Sole language of happiness; and emma’s uncle finds that too poor to pay the blefiing.
On the morning that was to have made miss Seaton my wife, 1 reached the cottage earlier than I had appointed, but found her already prepared to receive me. Her habit was the emblem of iier conduct, consistent, elegant and unsullied; a flowing robe of the purest white vyed with her complexion, which that day the roses had deserted. Her auburn hair was Sastened with the most becoming negligence, and a bunch of flowing geraniums, which I bad before presented her,
“blulh’d ’mid the whltenefs of her bosom P
over them, there Sell from a narrow velvet
 201
vet collar, a small oval Set round with brilliants. As I had never Seen her wear any diamonds, I looked at it with Some attention, and in a pause of conversation, took it in my hand, with that kind of involuntary action a man uses whose thoughts are otherwise employed. — A cat had stolen into the room during our conference, and was at this moment flying at a cage that confined a favourite bullfinch; Emma observed it, and hastily
starting from meto aid the little
/
warbler, the twist that hung from her collar broke, and left the   in my hand: — at the instant she twined from me, I concluding it was still fastened, let it go, and by the violence of a fall upon a marble hearth, thespring opened — • think, Willis, wshat I Selt when I beheld the picture of Sophia ■ — lovely, blooming as on the fatal day I viewed her at the altar. I endeavoured to disguise my emotion, and taking Emma by the hand, inquired how long she had been mistress of that bauble v/ith
K 5 out
20.2 .
out affecting Surprise at my unaccountable curiosity, she informed me, th at during her father’s last illness, he called her to his bedside, delivered her a key, ' and pointed at the cashet to which it belonged; at the Same time gave her injundlions not to open it till after his decease : - — “Emma, conti
t
•nued the good old man, the last moments of a life that hath been dedicated to thy wellfare, shall be employed in thy Service — 1 have yet, my dear girl, a few more instructions to convey, a Sew more truths to disclose, ere we part for ever. — Ah, wou’d to God I might in death restore the precious delegated charge— — Emma, you have yet a father’’ —
He would have proceeded, but the words died upon his lips.” — Here her tears did justice to his memory; then turning to me with inimitable sweetness, “Sir Harry (she continued) your heart will best inform you what mine has felt, — miss Sydney found me Surrk
in
r
 203
in Sorrow, and her kindness helped me to Support, though it could not to teach me to forget my loss— — 1 continued at M —, ’twas full employ to range the walks where he had trod, to gaze on prospects he admired, and water with my tears the shrubs he pladtecl At acton hall far different Scenes Sue
V
ceeded; — and tho’ I frequently repeated the words that fell from his lips, the casket still remained unopened r — whether the contents were unvalued, or that I received delight from the consideration that I had it in my power still to obey him, I will not determine; but this morning, sir, I first unlocked it, and was Surprised to find all its contents a   and a letter — the former you have Seen, the latter I had not time to open, ere you arrived — ** Quick, cried I, interrupting her, the caiket — and the letter — haste my em mas’ She flew from me, and instan tiy returned with them. The paper confirmed my hopes : it was the writing I
K 6 gwe
204 The Tri n k e t.
gave to Edmonds when I consigned the infant Emma to his care. Figure to yourself my happiness, in recounting to the listening wonderer the Secret of her birth, and you will agree with me
V
“The heart can ne’er a transport know That never felt a pain.”
.... ' ■.. -- -- - ■ ■ r •, - - ■ ■ ■ *..
XXXVII
Colonel Lester to Charles
El liott, esq.
^jphat you Sober, thinking mortals, who make a thousand sur mifes, inferences, and conclusions, who,, through the mere dint of perseverance, and the having tried all things, - hit at last upon the right; are either unusefui or insignificant beings,, can be only one of the many prejudices makind have agreed in adopting. For my party Charles, (and let me tell you I have duly weighed all reasons, pro and con) I am of opinion that conjurors, gentlemen of the considering cap, or, in other
words.
T he  . 205
9
words, you theorists are most useful members of society. Give you the siightest probability and you immediately fet to work chappy, indeed, when “the white web of stowing thought’' proves more durable than the labours of Penelope.
Raillery apart; I give you joy of your amazing penetration; and in return, congratulate me on the affection of my Belvidera — a glorious distinction, no dioclesian would resign.
She received my address with evident pleasure, a pleasure, rendered doubly charming by the bashful modesty that tried to check it. My new affumed character becomes me mightily — how should it do otherwise? We have heard
m
of a Paris, an Alcibiades, a Sedley — in love, Charles, men have but one language; and in the beaten track “we kneel, implore, persist, overcome — and leave — do not however imagine the
latter my resoluticn: they are, indeed, villains who Sport with the affections
of
« /
2o6
of the fair. You are, ere this, ' fixed in your rural quiet, courting the Dryads of your father’s woods, or wooing Echo to your embraces: — ■ Courage, Charles! Some witty Satirists have declared this nymph insenfible as rocks, but So great is her partiality for young men of your disposition, that Swear you love, and I warrant Ihe will'repeat your words; I shall rejoice when the contract is determined, since that must Surely prove a happy engagement where Sound and sense are united.
Charlotte Darcy does not Support her captive’s desertion with the stoicism her conduct promised; but there are people, loth to resign postesiions they never valued. The poor girl hates Belvidera most cordially; upon my Soul I am Sorry to be the cause of their distension. - — miss finchley’s situation is peculiarly disagreeable, and I am malicious enough to take pleasure in her perplexity, since I can turn it to advantage, and from it draw arguments
for
ft
 207
for the Speedy celebration of our nuptials — She blushes at the hurrying precipitation — but blushes, are the heralds ' of consent. The country, Charles, is favourable to themuses j try your stdll at an epithalamium, and though this season of the year affords no zephyrs, flowers or fracance : Pan and his rustic tribe will
O ^
join the Song : even should they prove insufficient, Olympus is at hand; and its immortal inhabitants will be eloquent in your verse.
LETTER XXXVIII
miss E MMA Edgerton to ladyeriza
Beauclerk.
YOUP letter, my dear Eliza, is just brought to me; and, I believe you sincerely rejoiced at my good fortune — for you have wept my griefs. — It seems strange, that in Sorrow we fly to the pen for relief, and write with ease and elegance; but change the prospect: and year no longer eloquent., — I cannot
V ‘.
I
o8 .
I
, not otherwise account for this, but that as misfortunes are more incident to hu manity, our minds are best adapted to receive melancholy ideas, and our language to express them;
\
— — So properly the objects of afhiction, That heaven is pleased to make distress become
us.”
I hate trifling prefaces, the result of folly, or of vanity; and as I know my Eliza interested in all that concerns her friend, I will endeavour to recount in his own words.
The History of Sir Harry
Edgerton.
In the narrative I am about to disclose, I only bear a Second part: I have a brother Emma, our opinions are the Same, our Souls inseparable, and our history is connected. In compas fion to you, I will pass over the first years of our lives, distinguished but by variety of juvenile recreations. I was near twenty, and Frederick eleven
months
The Tri N K E T. 209
months younger, when our tutor was discharged. — We found ourselves pos fested of unbounded happiness, and blessed with an ability to enjoy it. We smiled, when lovers talked of changing hearts; and could not hold ourselves So dear, as each esteemed the other. When Solicited to partake a favourite amusement, or join in some gay frolic, we have retired, have shut out pleasure — or rather found it in “the stow of foul.” The warm reciprocal affection enlarged our minds; and Frederick was destined early to discover, that friendship prepares the heart for love. We had planned a trip to Paris, and, by chance mentioned our Scheme to a young fellow, who desired us to take the charge of a letter addressed to his sister, a pensioner in the convent de Soon after our arrival, we recollected, and determined to execute his commission— — were introduced at the grate, where she appeared; and ere we had answered a few natural interrogatories,
a lady
•,.
I
\
210 T R I N K E T,
a lady that had followed us into tl convent inquired for her daughter, wl was immediately conducted to her. thought her formed to win the hearl but Frederick found her foto n she appeared charming — him st charmed. I need not tell you the a quaintance was cultivated, and our V sits frequently repeated — nor relate 1 what steps we learned she w’as tl daughter of monsieur de —. Who the Space of a few months, had buri
one wife, and received a Second. Tl
• --
former vas an English woman, ai shad by articles Secured to herself tl privilege of educating her girls in tl protestant religion. Sophia was h only child, she had imbibed the pr cepts of Christianity from her lips; ai the virtues it inculcates were rooted her bosom. She wept over her m ther’s grave, and lamented the kii tutoress whose life elucidated the rna ims she had enforced. The poor S phia received her stepmother with Su
misiio
«
I
I
 211
mistion, and through the natural sweet nefs of her disposition, ansv>iered frowns with Smiles. — She had no other shield to ward off harshness, than meekness and resignation, these she practised; but vulgar minds must be awed, not Softened into virtue. The mildness which at sirst trembles to repel, is often, by frequent insults, awakened into action. True humility, and that laudable softness that is Sounded on reflection, though not easily provoked, yet touched too far, rises into Spirit; and these apparently opposite qualities, are only persect when combined. — Sophia possessed them in an eminent degree — She combated rigour with Submishon, till her religion was invaded; then with a firmness undaunted by cruelty or th reats, vowed to resign her principles but with her life. Madame de — as tonished, adopted more Soothing methods; but sinding her still immoveable, her rage acquired increasing
strength from the short suspence. This
artful
• *
212
artful woman had gained the entire as cendency over her husband, who saw only the objects to which she pointed, and acted as she directed — by alienating his affection from, or otherwise disposing of Sophia, she hoped to Secure his fortune to her daughters by a former marriage; and representing to him that from her youth, he might expect a numerous family; she engaged him as warmly as herself in a resolution of marrying the poor unfortunate girl to the brother of her confessor— — of the meditated mischief, Sophia had retired to her dreffing room, where, she was Surprised by monsieur and ma dame de - — a Sriar, and their destined Son — her parents did not allow her time to demand the reason of their interrupting her retirement; but jointly insisted that she that moment abjured her faith, or received her husband— — dreadful alternative, and each productive of the other. — Her blood congealed vvith horror, the powers of life were
fu Spend
\
'' • I N K E T. 21^
Suspended, and left her incapable to determine; or them to pursue their cruelty. They laid her upon a bed, and when her sense returned, she found herself attended but by one domestic | she Sent her to Seek a Smelling bottle where she had not laid one, and stealing
down the back stairs, fled from the
^ /
violence. ^the maid not fuspecting her intentions, but fearing that her disorder might return, hastened back; and Soon alarmed the family — Servants were Sent to Seek her — — unfortunately the search proved too fuccessful, they overtook the trembling Sophia, and conducted her back to her irritated parents. — This flight was the Sole handle she had given for malice, and madame de — ^ was skilled to make the most of it.. A coach was immediately ordered; they conveyed her to a convent, and related an illconnected tale, in which they declared the perversion.of her principles was the refultof a clandestine
correspondence with Some heretic of low
births
ai
birth, See. Her flight corroborated these circumstances; the credulous abbess readily believed them, and they bribed her to Severity. — Sophia was destined to take the veil, and Some months of her noviciate were expired ere we beheld her: — her reason long
V
had shuddered at the prospect : - — she looked at Frederick and her heart rer

volted. The promises of monsieur de — had engaged the abbess on their fide; my brother’s gold was now more powerful, but her indulgence extended no Surther than conducting Sophia to the grate. Flere he had the Satisfaction to learn he was beloved; and when he entreated her to receive no other than the.bonds of Hymen, her teai^s and blushes did justice to an affection her tongue had hesitated as eloquently to express. Certain of her heart, Frederick waited on her father, represented the cruelty of confining her; but the Sole answer he obtained was, an assurance that necessity compelled it; - — he remonstrated,
and
: >

and after vainly using every argument his reason could suggest, confested his pasiion, declared his family and expectations, and entreated her hand : monsieur de — started off his chair in rapture; then considering my brother with attention. Ah que non, said he, shaking his head, and his features resumed their usual austerity : his doubts were how ever easily removed, and the engagement became reciprocal. Ces mejjieurs Anglois font plus polls du monde, said the old man, as Frederick left him. The prospect of aggrandisement Softened her avaricious parents, and the next day Sophia left the convent. The lovers now conversed without restraint, and lived but for each other. When merit is the basis of love, avarice may combat the pasiion, but prudence strengthens it— — knew not with what arguments to oppose a connexion I approved, and which indeed, from the moment Sophia declared her partiality, had proceeded too far to allow an honourable
tste
%

nourable retreat. I Sometimes reminded Frederick we had a father; but wc were both young, We judged of others by ourselves, and both considered virtue the fairest patrimony, and respected merit as the first distinction. Little doubting our fa ther’s consent, we agreed to return London and to obtain it. With difficulty I prevailed on Frederick to continue at Paris; for should his consent not answeir our demand, 1 could with greater temper listen to his objections, and of course more readily remove them. When I arrived in town, I urged my brother’s Suit; but reason and entreaty were alike ineffectual to prevail. ^when I found nd probability of succeeding, I endeavoured to laugh off the affair; to represent it merely a boyish galiantry^^ — feared he should command him to think no moreof it; i^but sirwilliam, in whose creed faith in females was not inserted, and in whose practice constancy had no place, himself aided the deception :
8 i^he
✓
 217
«
i— — appeared Satisfied his Sons should tread in his path, and make the fair subservient to their amusement; at best, the charmers of a leisure hour. I wrote to Frederick, declaring the unsuccessful embasiy, and advised him to wait till a more fortunate moment
V
might reconcile his love and duty; but he, joining with the moralists who teach us to Seize the present, thought it the best time to Secure his honour and his Sophia. He acquainted me with his intentions, and I reached Paris the morning she had put on her bridal ornaments. — An intimate friend was her only attendant — Louisa Clairvill was Seldom the handfornest woman in an asiembly; but in her presence beauty appeared a trifling distinction. She had no pretension to wit, but her Sentiments were refined, and her language elegantly adapted to express them. Her mirth was Sree from levity, and her seriousness stranger to melancholy. She was without vanity; yet having
L learned
4
i
218
learned and pradlised the virtues of her Sex, she knew to make them valued. — — A native grace distinguished all her actions; and her Sweet disposition, like the enlivening Sunshine, dilfused Serenity and chearfulness.
You have hitherto, my Emma, beheld us happy; or Sensible of.no other Sorrow than the lover’s pleasing pain : but we can exclaim with Rousseau: : are all born tributiry to ill fortune; and the happiest are those who have paid their debts the earliest.” Sir Harry arose, be left the room 5 but soon returning, resumed his tale.
“Sophia and louisa were companions in infancy; and in riper years, their affection realised whatever poets Sing of friendship. — In the former my brother found his happiness complete; virtue strengthened affection, and Hymen riveted the bonds of love. — To ascertain this happiness, I had perhaps deviated from discretion; and the man who in his friend’s concern is negligent,, yet
 219
yet prudent st>r himself, is deservedly branded with contempt. But not to detract from the most meritorious action of my life, let us give this apparent prudence an epithet more suitable: : determined to make myself the Sacrifice of filial obedience, and to restore Frederick to Sir william’s favour
V
this resolution I adopted at a. time when louisa’s charms instructed me in the difficulty of maintaining it. No anguish can equal his who finds himself beloved by a woman of merit, yet cannot aste her hand; an anguish doubled, when by So doing, he might ennoble the object he approves. louisa’s heart, as refined as her manners, was, like them, unaccustomed to constraint: and respect, friendship, or affected coldness, were too slight to veil my Sentiments. Some months continued thus j the principle that first pointed out my conduct, taught me to persistbut louisa had no interior obstinacy that
L 2 could
I
220 ttrent R I N K E T.
could help her to Sustain it — she drooped beneath the conflidl, vvhich
“Like a worm in the bud
prey’d on her damask cheek.”
The flattering change was alarming: reason astured me it was ill placed austerity, when innocence became a sufferer j and her flightest concurrence is, in our imagination, fusticient to consecrate the emotions of the heart. Mine represented the folly of declining offered happiness, lest evil should be the result: in this war of the pastions, the doubtful conquest was confirmed by an unforeseen event. — I found myself one evening alone with Louisa at my brother’s lodgings: we were expatiating on their happiness— — Snatched her hand — I pressed it to my lips; love was the language of my eyes, and my to ngue would have given utterance to love : — but an unusual outcry upon the stairs, with the name of Henry frequently repeated, restored me to myself— — ran to the door, where the first object that
presented
. 221
presented itself was my father; I would have embraced him, but he turned from me with disdain. At this time Mr. and Mrs. Edgerton, who had Spent the afternoon with' sophia’s mother, returned; they entered the room with their usual sprightliness, and Frederick had opened his mouth, the Smile of good-humour on his countenance, when
I
Sir william’s voice fixed him the statue of Surprise.
I have introduced you Emma, into a Scene of confusion; a Scene it would be difficult to describe : Suffice it, that w’hat we could offer, was too trifling to sosten him that evening; and all our endeavours proved ever after insufficient. — Through his inflexibility, Frederick was reduced to See his Sophia want many comforts he languished to bestow — As monsieur de — enjoyed but a Small patrimony, he had nothing to give his daughter; and on Sir william’s remittances, though augmented to the utmost of my power, they were
L 3 unable
222
unable to live. In this distress a flattering prospect offeredjwhich his friends earnestly entreated Frederick to embrace; immense fortunes were daily brought from the East Indies; and the Situation they wished him to accept, was peculiarly advantageous. — The hope that he should be Soon able to pstace his Sophia in the Sphere where she was born to shine, induced him to
•ft#
consent. — — The morning he vasto quit us arrived — we parted, and felt the parting, as brothers, and as friends. — He approached his wife, pale, and'almost frantic with distress, he Strained her to his heart; “My best Edgerton, Said the beauteous comsorter, repress your grief; misfortunes will either cease to pursue us, or the time arrive when we shall triumph in them.” - — More she intended to have Said, but the gushing tears prevented utterance, and when she would have blamed his Sorrow, she yielded to her own. Fler adoring hus band clasped her still closer to' his bosom I
✓
. 22g
fom; then putting her hand in mine, with a look more forcible than language recommended her to my care, and left us with precipitation, as doubtful if he could yet maintain the conquest:. — Sophia supported this unforeseen event with the heroism that peculiarly distinguished her. As the partner of his heart, she felt the separation, yet bore it without repining. — She wept his absence, yet trusted Providence would restore the bleshng that had been resigned with Submishon. She informed me of a circumstance she had concealed from my brother; and which disclosed, must have augmented the pangs of parting. Certain, she deserved his love, she had no apprehensions absence could weaken it; and disdained to urge a title, which, tho’ it might six her deeper in bis heart, must Subject him to numberless inquietudes. — She anticipated the pleasure of presenting him a blooming prattler; of sharing with him the delightful talk of education. — Louisa,
L 4. w as.
I
V
I
224 The T r I n k et.
t
was constantly with her, and with insi nite regret I left these charming companions. — Sir william’s appetite and Spirits daily declined, and the physicians recommended change of air. — As if happiness and health were, local, we fondly imagine those places that once afforded, still have them in reserve : — My father in his youth had Spent much agreeable time in Italy, and determined again to visit it. — I accompanied him, but not sinding that part of the world more enlivenine than the climate he
O
■ had quitted, we returned long before the appointed time.
Soon after oiir arrival, under pretence of visiting a friend in the country, 1 left Sir William; but Paris was my destined route. — When I entered Mrs. ed gerton’s house, louisa came to me, her eyes red with weeping : “My Sophia’^ was all she could distinctly utter, and clasping her hands, she Sunk upon a couch. — Alas! I learned her friends valuable life was despaired of — they informed
9
 225'
formed her of my arrival, and she welcomed me with rapture : our interview was inexpresiibly moving; the physicians entreated she would suffer me to leave the room, but she condemned their cruelty : “Edgerton, she continued, it has been my ultimate wish to leave my Frederick some traces of his Sophia. — — Vainly I hoped to have embraced my husband;; this infant will lisp his welcome here — While I wait his entrance to those realms of rest, where cruelty can never enter, or sorrow part us more.” — The Smile of transport brightened her countenance, she consigned her little innocent to my care, and her pure spirit fled to the abodes of bliss— — was too young to receive the precious charge; and to an honest pair whose care and ability we were convinced was equal to the undertaking, I entrusted ir. — That the worthy Edmonds had the greatest affection foe Frederick and myself, I was before convinced. — Soon after these affairs Were
L e Settled.,
/
226
fettled, I received a mandate to attend Sir William, and I reached him just
time enough to receive his last bleshng. The prospect of the fortune I should inherit gave me satisfaction, when I considered I should share it with my louisa, and join with her to educate the infant Emma. — Alas I how distant arc our wishes, when postested from affording the happiness we Sondly imagined
their accomplishment would convey. — Immediately on my return to Paris, 1 called on Edmonds, but he had left his habitation, and his friends were ignorant whither he had repaired. — A Servant who had lived with him gave me a note, his master had ordered him to deliver, in which he informed me that neceshty had compelled him to quit Paris j but that his lovely charge should find in him a father, till the time when he must restore her to her real parent, or yield her to my care; that he hoped he should be able to return, or that his situation would be soon Settled, when
he
V
f
Tr 1 N K E T. 227
he would throw himself at the feet of his benefactor. — Louisa was Some miles from Paris, at the Chateau de — -; on perusing, this note, she joined in regretting his departure. — It was now I openly avowed my love, and enforced the merit of though long attachment with every argument affection could inspire.
The blush of modest tenderness crim ibned her glowing cheek; but was quickly succeeded by a deathlike paleness— — paleness that long had Sit upon her face. — Whenever I renewed my Suit, she smiled, and raised her eyes top heaven, My dear Sir Harry, cease I I entreat you. — I could once have resigned the world without a sigh — but while I listen to you, life assumes new charms.” —
“Yes, mv louisa, our hour shall
^ J *
be diversified by varied happiness.” - — '
Alas f a fatal consumption dashed my ■' hopes, and the Sun that was to have bestowed her hand, witnessed the Sad reverse, — I felt all the anguish of a lover
» - j m — ^
L 6 tonir
228 The T r i n k e t.
%
torn from the object he adored > and had Sunk beneath my Sorrow, but that the little Emma, now the Sole object of my care, incestantly presented herself to my remembrance — robbed of loui fa, Frederick, and Sophia, I loved them all in you.
But misfortune still pursued me, I received a letter from Edmonds, disclosing his reason for leaving Paris 5 he was falsely accused of having joined in Some papers deemed treafonous, and found it necestary to Secrete himsels — he informed me that he had retired to Soistbns, and that he would there wait jmy commands — I Set out immediately, but on my arrival, I learned (from his only confidant) that his retreat had been discovered, and that he had been obliged to quit Soistbns the day before. — By strange fatality, tho’ each endeavouring to find the other, we never, met; nor was this unsuccessful Search,
1
my only cause of Sorrow; no letters from Frederick had reached me, and
all
/
T h’e  . 229
all inquiries after him proved unsatisfactory— — felicity I now enjoy in recovering my charming niece, is moderated by the apprehension her father never will partake it.”
When we are most: fortunate, my Eliza, there is still a something wanting to render happiness complete : — if the idea displeases you, we will forget it. I hate those gloomy mortals, whom Pope describes, as
“pleased with nothing, if not blessed with all
— but in the present cause, methinks the Sentiment it Springs from, Sanctifies the murmur. Last week my uncle conducted me to his house, he Separately introduced his Servants, and ordered them to acknow ledge their mistress. — The mansion is charmingly situated on the Summit of a hill — his grounds are bounded by a winding river, that Sometimes loses itself among the trees, at others, falls in natural cascades — from the window we See the cattle grazing on the distant
0
9
t
I
230 The
meadows — the myrtle, the orange, the holly, and a variety of beautiful evergreens, render even this Season of the year delightful. — I consider myself, Eliza, doubly indebted to Providence, who by suffering me in adversity to learn the value of affluence, taught me to enjoy, what, in the time his wisdom appointed, he bestowed. It was with regret I listened to my uncle, when he proposed our spending a few weeks at. Bath, for I confess I hoped to have pasted the winter here. To make others happy is our best tribute of gratitude; and their landlord’s presence would have enlivened his cheerful tenants. — Sir Harry studies my wishes j but when we are certain our desires will be complied with, it is not easy to express them. — The beginning of next month is fixed for our journey, and immediately after our arrival you shall' hear from your affectionate
Emma;
• •«
 231 letter XXXIX ’
Miss Charlotte Darcy to Miss
Arabela 'Owen.
H, Arabella, I can support it no longer j — not that I have myself the least: regard for the man; but that that ugly creature should triumph over me is intolerable! — This instant colonel lester’s servant brought a letter addressed to her, and as she was not in ^ the way, I e’en made free with the contents. Love and rapture were the foie ideas it conveyed to her, rage and revenge to me. — Next Thursday is fixed. for the completion of his happiness; but if indignation, address, and ingenuity have power, their union never shall be accomplished. — Arabella, I die with envy — to be deserted for belve dera Finchley! — but I shall let him see that Charlotte Darcy does not So easily resign her power.
Did you ever Seethe creature? — No,
I believe not, or you would hardly
credit
r
t _
232
credit the account I send you.~i can i not conceive what sirst induced my mother to receive her in the family; but she is so mighty compastionate — So foolishly charitable — upon my word I have no patience with her. — Belvidera too, found out her foible, and made her court to her by adopting it, and through Patty harlowe’s affair was vastly in favour with the old lady. — I always told Mrs. Darcy she was an artful hussy, but’ she was So biggoted to her own opinions — though to be Sure, no one would have imagined the girl had attractions to engage a man of fashion — — an awkward. thing, who but for my mother’s ridiculous generosity, had never been initiated into polite life — and who still (wanting Sense to adopt my example) retains all the simplicity of the nursery. I am really astonished at colonel lester’s folly — the wretch! after having Seen me, to take notice of Belvidera! — Oh for vengeance, worthy of
Charlotte Darcy
 233
LETTER XL
miss Edgerton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
Bath — Monday, pardon, my dear lady Eliza, must; be a free gift, for I am ashamed to plead Sorlit — three weeks at Bath! ah, chide me, my Sweet friend; punish mein any other manner than hyyour silence, and I will kiss the rod. — Already is your Emma tired of this brilliant circle, where vanity usurps the name of emulation, extravagance is honoured as generosity, and disiipation wears the mash of pleasure — and to many others I am convinced it is equally irksome; but fearing to distent from opinion they see supported by all around them, they feign amusement where they never received it, and strengthen the delusion. — A fine lady, first makes a facrisice of her taste; her heart and understanding follow, till the whole woman is en grosted by fashion. — In their idea there
is
«
i
234
is nothing so dreadful as singularity 5 no matter why, but if Mrs. such a one, has opinions of her own, that is, if she
dresies, visits or retires as inclination 01 prudence direct, she is immediately ar ill-bred creature, brought up and instructed by nobody knows who — and true enough, for her guides, tc them are utter strangers • — reason anc reflection.
In the various changes of my life, ] have learned to distinguish flattery fron: kindness; and the mere exercise of that tongue, from the language of the heart My honest rustics were strangers to pro fcstlon, but I confided in their friend
/
and was not deceived. • — Her praise, vows, and adulation are incessantly aimed at my heart j but they an too impotent to reach it: — from th( men (with whom the difficulty of attainment stamps the value of a conquest we have learned to Scorn an easy prize— — have Somewhere heard that practice is necestary to attain perfection —
mi
4
I
 235
my Emma, shall women be found pas live while they gain experience at our expense, and every coxcomb publishes his “Art of Love.” — But I will introduce you to my admirers — and first,
“My lord advances with majestic mien,
• Smit with the mighty pleasure to be seen
Let him comeforward, and declare limn

Self a being perpetually busied in discovering the defects of his acquaintance; one of those moralists who view every object on the dark side, and he thinks others incapable of great actions, because he is always employed in trifles.
Mr. L — - is falsely styled “a man of pleasure he has found the despicable art of debasing the most extensive genius, of stripping sprightliness of allurement, and wit of admiration; most admirably skilled to “puzzle right, and varnish wrong, ” the abilities he postelses, but show us what he wants, while lively parts, and a fertile imagination, render more conspicuous the depravity of his heart.
I rei

\
236 T HE  .
I retired into my closet, and dedicated the morning to my friend; — but they knock at my door — they force me to accompany them to the pump room — yet, this they tell me is the place where all pursue their own inclinations. In the world, Eliza, it is necessary to follow the multitude, though it should be sometimes to do evil; and those are
I ^
ever happiest, who with the greatest facility can regulate their desires by the caprice of others.
Stuefday.
This morning Sir Harry obligingly accompanied me in an airing, that I might take a view of the country. — A few miles from Bath an elegant phaeton passed us with the utmost velocity, and one of the horses taking fright, overturned it : — my uncle stopped our postillion, and ordered the servants to give their astistance; himself alighted from the carriage and followed them. I was happy to learn at his return, that
thoug
m
T HE  . zyj
though a lady in the phaeton was much frightened, no hurt had been received; and yet Sir Harry appeared thoughtful and melancholy. — At dinner we had a large company; though he entertained his guests with his usual.. I could discern he wdstied them absent— — soon as they were gone, he called for his hat : — and I flew to communicate this strange intelligence. — I fear, Eliza, they have not disclofed the truth; yet the servants astured me there was no mifehief, and though they did not know to whom the carriage belonged, their master and the gentleman in it seemed perfectly acquainted. — When I inquired the name. Sir Harry avoided a direct answer— — unaccountable this mystery I — but he comes, and will surely Satisfy the curiosity he has raised.
Still in the dark, Eliza, and returned with no other knowledge, than a conviction that it is impostible to renew a
Subject
!0
\
/
238
t
Subject which gives pain to those whom we regard. — Sir Harry is strangely interested, and who, more proper for a confidant than his grateful niece — Ah, then, does he doubt the prudence or the affection of his
\
Emma.
I ■ ■ .....ft,,,.. fti. ft.
i
letter XLI
Sir Harry Edgerton to Edward
Willis, Esq.
OUR letter, Willis, arrived too • late — the day before I received it, Sydney passed us on the road — the morning was delightful, and whiling to enjoy it in its utmost perfection, lady Juliet had desired to accompany him in the phaeton. — Unfortunately the steeds had no less Spirit than their master, and overturned the carriage. They conti
1
%
nued, however, their route to Bath, and I determined to keep Emma ignorant of his'prefence, and to feign Some, cause that should enibrce our return to H —
I for
/ ' /
I
 239
I forbore mentioning the subject till I had called on Sydney. — Heavens, how awful! how unexpected the intelligence
'I then received; Augustus has lost his wife — the fright by bringing on a miscarriage occasioned her decease— — friend is inexpresiibly affected, his fen sibility can be equalled only by his vivacity. — Amiable Sydney — how infinitely the feelings of the hujband adorn the man. — Lady Amelia and Fanny arrived here yesterday; they join his Sorrows : ah, Willis., in multiplying these Iweet connexions, we but open new inlets to misery,
4
To me my fair one, in the blissful band.
Of Hymen, never gave her hand;
; The joys of wedded love were never mine.’^
And yet, my heart has bled; it has Sustained the pangs of Separation j and in contemplating sydney’s loss, 1 but renew my griefs. — Adieu, Willis, by communicating these melancholy ideas,
I shall infect you with the contagious
sadness
%

240
LETTER XLIL
Miss Charlotte Darcy to Miss
Arabella Owen.
H easily these men are made our
dupes — here has been the colonel raving against women, who he Swears affect the Semblance of every virtue, only to laugh at the honest credulity that confides in them. — Ha! ha! ha! you must own, Charlotte Darcy a divine projector, when even the difcernirtg Lester can be imposed on — the man is this instant gone from my dresiing room, his face lengthened half a yard beyond its usual dimensions, and shaking his wife noddle, as is ambitious to imitate the mandarins on my chimney-piece. — Ob, you was never wiinefs to a scene So diverting, and your Charlotte acts the Sympathising friend to perfection. — Deluded fool! who but himself would be so deceived. — “Punctual as lovers to the moment Sworn, ” he reached our
house J
T H K Tri n k e t, 241
house;; upstairs with more than
common agility. — Not quite So fast
/
Sir, ” and I contrived prettily enough, to meet him on the landing place — the. man appeared a little disconcerted — * conscious guilt stew in his face : Ah, friend, thought I, a Seal is no bar to curiosity — pretending, however, perfect ignorance of his reason for this early visit, 1 Showed him into a room — begged him to be Seated, and tahked of a thousand indifferent things. — Belvidera was frequently on his tongue, and
when at last he inquired for her, I rose
✓
and rang the bell— — will you inform Miss Finchley, colonel Lester requests her company.” — She obeyed, but returned Soon after — miss was not in her apartment 1 and the footman Saw her get into a hack between six and Seven in the morning. — My Swain Sat upon thorns, one minute he was at the window; the next, rubbing his hands by the fireside— — expecting his fair
M one’s
i
4
\
V
242
N
one’s return — one hour followed another. • — It must be acknowledged, (thought I, as he paced up and down the room) the creature has some odd, becoming graces.” — He threatened to follow her — to be sure some wicked ra vilher had robbed him of his treasure :
I contrived, however, by talking of her, to detain him till it was too late to put this Scheme in execution; and tomorrow the colonel is to commence knight errant.
My mother puts on her Spectacles, looks in lester’s face most compasii onately — pities him of course. — “My dear, colonel Lester, Says she, holding outlier hand with authority, we must learn to Support these unforeseen disappointments.” — Ah, madam, he replies, 1 had Suffered my thoughts to dwell without restraint on future ban
I
pinefs; that happiness which Miss Finchley was to have communicated and received : but she has deserted me
in
6
I
t
V
, •  243
in the moment when she stiould have blessed my wishes. — Can the lovely Belvidera then, practice the deceit to which she is a stranger — Can the most perfect of her Sex be falfes’ — I endeavoured to console him. “Amiable miss .Darcy, cried he, how kind this friendly Solicitude; the dear girl' had many admirers, whose pride, more powerful than their love, revolted at the idea of receiving her as a wife; and who may have adopted this method of terrifying tile beauty they could not Seduce — the thought, continued he, is agony; Ob,
Miss Darcy, I fly to Seek my Belvidera.”
tor heavens lake, colonel Lester, defer your resolution; it would now be dark ere you could commence your search: : Finchley indeed. Seldom went out without informing us, but we
O ^
had no right to demand an account of her actions; and as we had formed no particular plan of amusement for the
M 2 day
\
w
244
day, she perhaps seized it, to visit her friends.” —
My mother agreed with me, but the colonel had reasons, (with which, thanks to my ingenuity, I was acquainted) for supposing otherwise— — I was successful in detaining him; and now, Arabella, if you have not fense to divine my feherne, you hardly deserve the confidence of
Charlotte Darcy.
LETTER XLIIL
Miss Edgerton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk.
Eliza, I have Seen that once animated countenance overspread with melancholy — those Sparkling eyes, dropping the tear of Sensibility — they persuade him to take a short tour to dissipate his melancholy, but he sighs
and
 245
and sixes his eyes upon your Emma. This morning I have received the following billet.
“Yes, madam, in compliance with my friends, I seek variety : but pleasure — but happiness, can be found only in my Emma. — Your beauty, miss Edgerton, must justify the man who dis dains Submistion to common forms, that have power over us, only because they are established. — I quit the woman I adore, I leave her Surrounded by a dmte rers, and can I do otherwise than apprehend, that long before propriety will admit mv claim, her hand Should be
J *
disposed of— — envious talk loudly of my gaiety j but they will ever Satirise, w’hat they cannot imitate — however, I See my errors; and I dare ac knowledge them — may I flatter myself, my lovely Emma will reward those virtues, and that constancy she has inspir ed I that she will one day bless her
Sydney.
M 3. Sir
I
246 T II E
'i
Sir Harry hsing upon my chair while I read it — the servant waited, and implements for writing were on the table,,! took up a pen, and on the cover of his billet, I wrote these lines.
‘‘ My happiness depends upon your conduct — go; but remember, Mr. Sydney, he that alpires to my heart must; merit it j and that I never will listen to the lover, when I cannot approve the manp Something far different I should have Said; but when the the pen is not restrained by ceremony, it will express our thoughts — I would have torn it, but my uncle prevented me. — How long, said he, has it been customary with my Emma, to treat her friends with reserve— — is not Mr. Sydney among the number. — I blushed, and Sealed the paper. — But surely, my Eliza, he must be convinced of my affection; and his apprehensions of my inconstancy are impertinent. I
s
have discernment to guide my choice;
and
 247
and resolution to persist in it. — Sevigny, who came here with lady Amelia, accompanies his friend : they leave Bath tomorrow, and, Mr. Sydney proposes waiting on lady juliet’s relations in London, and then begins his tour. — Ah, my friend, in this situation it is almost guilty to think on future happiness— — lady Juliet — the more I anticipate felicity, the faster flow my tears for you.
■■ iwii ■ •mmfm ■■ ■ ft ■ 1 iiriibi 1 ii
. LETTER LXIV
Miss Charlotte Darcy to Miss
Arabella Owen.
TX^ELL, it must be confested, even a
Machiavel must bow to my Superior abilities. — Afflictions, my dear, teach these men humility : and Lester
is mightily improved through my in' '
%
— So civil. So condescending;; dear Miss Darcy.” — ** My ami
M 4 able
24^
able Charlotte.” Ha! ha! ha 1 — then: So enraged against Belvidera “he gazed on her, and mistook art for tenderness— — for candour” — Deluded Sool! — Oh, Arabella, this vengeance is divine. H e was here early; and had ordered his horses to meet him; hut against that I had provided. — '* I fear, miss Darcy, (said he, looking at his watch) my Servant has misunderstood me.” ' — Just as he uttered these words, my chaise came to the door— — ** Lester, cried I, my mother will be d’ov/n in a few minutes; I was going to call on a friend of miss finchley’s a few miles from town.,.; — you will excuse me sir.”
“Give me leave to accompany you: we will leave a mestuage, that when my Servant arrives he may follow us with the horses.”
I pretended myself averse to the proposal, but objected in a manner that strengthened his resolution. — Yes,
thought:
lithe
Tri N K E T. 24d
thought I, as he handed me to the chariot i if I am now fuccessful, Arabella Owen will do justice to my abilities. — ^
I took care in our ride to drop Some hints of a prior attachment, of another lover, once encouraged by Belvidera; — * he Swallowed the bait; ** Ah, miss Darcy, though your generous friendship would conceal her falsehood, I fear I am indeed deceived. — Poor Lester, you was a true prophet; and yet the chef d.oeuvre was in reserve.
Some miles beyond the bridge a post chaife pasted us — Heavens, stis my Belvidera! exclaimed the colonel — >■ cruel, distembling girl — but I will tear her from his arms’’ — then looking out of the window, he called to the postillions to stop J but they had received directions; I had likewise appointed the time when belvidera’s deliverer should' convey her from her country residence, and had ordered my servant to ride before, as a Signal for him to commence
'M 5; the
250
the lover — and the girl I was assured would be too fenlible of his Quixotifin, to refuse listening to his profestions : — the plan Succeeded as I wished, my Spark Sat by her side, one arm thrown carelessly round her, while with the other he raised her hand to his lips : — she endeavoured to disengage herself;
»
but Lester thought her reluctance proceeded Solely from our meeting : —
“Let us return, miss Darcv, he ex claimed, our search has proved indeed successsulj it shall instruct me to tear her from my heart.”
The poor colonel rails at women with inceivable grace: ah, without doubt he is vastly indebted to your Charlotte, and but for her, had wanted an opportunity of exerting all his talents.
*
!
*
t
LET
X
 251
/
ft
LETTER XLV
From the Same to the Same.
II ND So really, Arabella, you are at a loss to discover how I have executed my Scheme — wonderful! — but you was never remarkable for penetration — how then should you comprehend the charming project? — — On the day fixed for the wedding, I rose with the Sun, and entered belvidera’s chamber; My dear miss Finchley, ciied I,.
I have an engagement for the day — Lady Lucy Aubrey designs to call on me at ten o’clock, and 1 want exceedingly to purchase a few trifles at the nearest millener’s. — A coach is at the door, and we shall be back before Mrs. Darcy is ready for breakfast — will you accompany me ?” — She agreed without hesitat. in — in the appointed street we pasted che hero of the piece God bless me, Belvidera !• I exclaimed,
M 6 there’s'
t
252 T HE  .
there’s Mr. Eldridge — a relation of ours, just come to London.” — He Saw me, stopped the coach, and at my repeated request,, agreed to return with us to breastfast. — At length we reached the shop— — was too late; 1 could not think of detaining my friends, and, stepping out, desired the coach might turn, and I would be with them instantly : — the driver Sat off with amazing rapidity; and my swain, fearing, his fair charge should be alarmed, to conceal her danger, drew up the wooden blinds. — miss, I suppose had more discernment than he wished; and more resolution too; however, by Securing her hands,, and stifling her voice with: his handkerchief, he made shift to conduct her to her country lodging. Here the girl assumed the heroine, and was so perfect in her part, the women of the house, thougl). accustomed to Such visitors, were Softened— — next day, her kind stars Sent Some valorous knight
to
f
T HE T R I N K E T; 253, '
to her relief — the fair damsel vas discovered weeping at her window— — beauty in distress you know, Arabella; is irresistible — to See, and love, were Synonymous. — Oh, I can alsure you; Harry acts the adoring inamorato to perfection — how should it be other wnse? for when I gave him instructions for his conduct, “There now, said L look on my face — recollect the. Soft' things Such beauty should inspire, and repeat them all to Belvidera — but be Sure, continued I, that the whole time you converse with her, you figure to yourself miss Darcy is before you — -> that it is her you speak to; and then believe me, friend, such charms will make you eloquent.’’ — Well, this Sue? ceeded — the. duenna’s contrived to be: most accidentally out of the way; a postchaife was ready, and the pretty fool, all gratitude to her generous deliverer, jumped into it. — In the mean time,, Charlotte Darcy was not unemployed,
.
*
^54 The
ployed, but brought the colonel to the field of action; — he was however Soon Satisfied, and we returned to bruton street, where I alighted; he, I knew, wished for privacy, that he might indulge his grief, and I ordered the chariot to convey him home.
A few minutes after, Belvidera^ reached the door — — ** Tremble, miss Finchley, cried I, for you can no longer impose on us : — my mother and colonel Lester are undeceived; nor shall an abandoned hypocrite find shelter here.” ** Ah, miss Darcy, she replied, before whom then should the guiitlels tremble } Colonel Lester will be one day convinced of my innocence — till then, I know it— — am content.”
She left me with disdain; and where the girl now is, heaven knows; — for after her flight (which I had taken care should be pretty public) it was impos sible, you know, that we stiould receive her. — — Well, Arabella! in future times,
when
%

when men shall dwell with praise on instances of addre/s and ingenuity, this' shall be produced, and the world confess it was done by
Charlotte. Darcy
%
XLVI
Lady Eliza Beauclerk to Mish
Edgerton.
"ELL, it must be confesied, Mr,
Beauclerk can vie even with pe truchio in the taming of his shrew. Still must I date my letters from this dreary spot, where your friend is a very Laplander in Supporting the rigours of the season. — heigh ho, Emma! we give these lords of the creation So muce reason to depend upon our integrity, they think a double claim to our allegiance unncccstary; and when once obedience becomes a duty, give themfelves'
little trouble to Secure our inclinations
«
; — ah,
• 0

• — ah, my friend, 1 have still stronger' reasons— — matrimonial disagreements should never be disclofed y and a hushand’s unkindness,. is then only just, when we dare complain of it. — In my conscience, I believe Some uneasi -- nesses are thrown in with the priest’s benedidiodj and in honour to the reverend father they continue the concomitants of marriage. Here then am I, buried in this desart place, my days Solely diversified by rain or hail; impending clouds or Sailing. Snows — while my Emma, unconscious of the lowering season, measures her hours by triumphs;, and having. Subjected all hearts to her Sway, like: the brave Macedonian youth, who wanted worlds to conquer, she weeps for Subjects to enslave. — Surrounded by these numerous admirers, establish it early in your mind, that fallhood lurks beneath pro feshon; nor yield to any other than the coxiitship of the heart. I received your
letters;,
I
The Tri k e t. 25^-
letters; and even from your first introduction, have been charmed with Sir Harry Edgerton — how great must be the merit of that man, whom the distinction of being my emma’s uncle, cannot raise higher in my esteem, — Poor louisa! I felt more for her, than for the equally unfortunate Sophia: — our own situation too. often regulates our pity ~ and for the pathetic, “each' man’s secret standard’s in his mind ** She never told, hedove, ” but fella, victim to maiden pride as the taper near extinct burns with redoubled brightnefshappinefs illumined her last days,, and flamed but to expire. — Pardon,, Emma, if these melancholy reflections intrude upon the jovial hour, — indeed I am this morning avery uiir
fit correspondent; unless, as a monarch in the midst of triumphs was daily informed that he was mortal, you wish a
memcnt.q monand for that office, believe
. >
%
. 258
lieve me, no candidate will offer more Suitable than your
Eliza Beauclerk
.■■ ■■■.. t, rnumm m " 9 wm
E T T E R XLVIL
Augustus Sydney, esq; to Sir
George Danvers.
Parts,
i
o' certainly a Second Cervantes will
rise to record the achievements of the heroic Sydney — or the valorous knight of the woeful countenance — damsels rescued— — discovered — ha! ha! h a! entre nous George, the Spinsters at Bath were vastly outre m advising me to Seek variety in Soreign courts — a genius like mine never could want amusement— — it is absolute cruelty to leave the country where one can be So Serviceable — to leave the women, “like lilies drooping” — ah,
my
i.
/
 259
my fair ones, well may ye mourn, for sydney’s gone,
“And pleasure is no more.” ^
Hey, Danvers! gone to fire another Troy. — Sevigny looks over my shoulder: ** What, Augustus! still in the; old strain V
** faith, Lucius, I believe I did resolve to recount our quixotifm — but; (yawning) prithee, take the pen ihy felf.”
He immediately made off j and not without reason friend, thought I, for really the Subject requires my animated style.
Sauntering one morning up St.. james’s street, hanging'on sevigny’s armand considering how I should em ploy the next hour a pretty face in a milliner’s shop instantly decided the debate, and we were as instantly in the house— — ** us Some Sword knots, child, ’’ Said Lucius, carlessly drawling out his purse; then Smiling in her
face.
zo
face, *‘ Faith thou art very pretty, *’ continued he. — The girl, however. Seemed to have nothing feminine about, her but her beauty; and paying for the ribbon that beauty had disposed of, we tnrned to leave her — observing an elegant female cross the shop, and on Seeing us, hold a handkerchief to her face, - “Who have you there, my dear, ” said I — ** A young woman, she replied, my mistress Sometimes employs V and was proceeding to Satisfy my curiosity, but the fair one had reached the door : which not opening so readily as she expected, Sevigny flew to assist her. Heavens, Sydney! he exclaimed, it is miss Finchley.” — And seizing her hand, led her to a Small parlour behind the shop.
■ There, Danvers, we learned — upon my Soul, I forget what. Suffice it, I conveyed Belvidera to an aunt of lady juliet’s, who received her with pleasure. That I waited on Lester — convinced him of his mistake — conducted him to
her
 261
her feet— — stayed a week longer in London to present him with her hand.
The day after the wedding, pretending perfect ignorance of her machinations, I called on Charlotte Darcy 5 rattled of their felicity, his love and transports— — short, completely mortified the poor devil. — Then changed my tone, vowed Lester was resolved to discover the fiend that had So long deferred their union — laughed at the ill concerted plot, which only folly could have planned, or envy have executed — then dwelled on belvidera’s charms, her happiness had given new roses to her cheeks, and Lester idolised her. — » ** Good God! cried I, observing Charlotte turn pale, are you not well? — the poor girl to be Sufe vras greatly to be pitied — a whole night confined in that consounded house— — really, my dear Miss Darcy, this concern for your friend is very obliging — but the goodness of
your heart, madam — Ah, I am convinced

t
^'62
ed colonel and Mrs. Lester think them
I
Selves infinitely indebted to your friendship.” - — And looking at my watch, protested I had forgot that I had promised them to give my opinion of Some jewels — and left her bursting with rage and envy. We have been in Paris Some time, and propose continuing here longer than we first intended; for really the poor souls finds us So necessary to their happiness, it would be cruelty to deprive then! of our company — i\h, Danvers, what is this punctilio, to which
*
we Sacrifice : — Fashion regulates the feelings of the heart, and v^e have loaded felicity with the fetters of ceremony — ■ but Miss edt^erton is above these
O
common forms; yet, in obedience to her commands, 1 shall stay here a few weeks longer, and hit on Some method to lash the lingering moments into Speed.” — Emma, to Soften absence, makes fanny’s letters the vouchers of her constancy : Sweet girl! she reserves
her
X
0k
 263
her hand for Sydney — and really, my dear Sir George,
“Young men of such spirit.
Will ever attain the reward of their merit, ’’
t
LETTER xlvill.
4
Miss Edgerton to Lady Eliza
Beauclerk,
H, my dear Eliza, it is impostible
to conceive a more agreeable party! the marquis is the most; amiable of men; fanny’s happiness has increased her vivacity — Sir Harry is transported with the general joy, and lady Amelia, not the least jovial in the throng. Andin the name of wonder, you exclaim, what is the source of this uncommon gaiety ?: — How disagreeable to descend to narrative; however, child, to satisfy your curiosity, you must know that we have found miss sydney’s Montreal; the first coup deceit, I confess was attended
264 .
d withno very agreeable circumstances — nothing that promised the felicity that succeeded. Lady Amelia, miss Sydney, Sir Harry, and myself, went last week to the rooms. — ** Charming couple/’ was the first found that struck our ears — of course three women were not destitute of curiosity; we pressed forward to give our opinion of the dancers — ** how gracefully they move, ’* exclaimed I, turning to Fanny — she caught hold of my arm — ** let us retire Emma.” — The dear girl was the picture of death; pale, trembling, disordered — I accompanied her to a more private part of the room; Ah, miss Edgerton, Said she, had any one told me Montreal was inconstant — - ** She would have proceeded, but the lover she accused was at her side. He was all love and transport— — fanny’s heart and language, tenderness chastened by modesty. — He introduced the duke and duchess. — ** Happily, (said
his
4
t
f
 265
his grace) in compliance with my foil’s ardent Solicitations, I had this morning given that consent, which had I before seen miss Sydney, he should not So often have requested.”
Montreal informed us, that to oblige his mother, he had attended her to the rooms; and the next day he was to have reached Acton hall. — ‘ceremony only, retards their union; and lady Amelia would not yield one point of punctilio for the univcrse. — The good old Soul is So busy, So delighted. So pleased with her asiumed importance, that miss Sydney and mysels are inconceivably diverted; while montreal’s native politeness Srequently yields to his impatience. — bless me! a post chaife — and the most agreeable man imaginable, alights from it — Sir Harry sties to him — he embraces him— — Eliza, my heart anticipates felicity.
N ' Sir
I
266
Sir Harry Edgerton in continuation.
Yes, madam, the father — the bro.. is restored — and Emma commissions me to disclose her happiness — come, lady Eliza, and convince the dear girl it may be still augmented. — She ■would herself have concluded her letter, but this day we cannot yield her even to friendship — but you must join us madam; if affection is no inducement, be not deaf to curiosity; and we have tales of wonder to relate — — perils by sea and land,
Emma is by my fide — — she claims ■ the pen — and on my refusing to deliver it, would have me tell you how nearly she had lost her father, even when in sight of England : but he is restored to us — and melancholy reflections can no longer find entrance in the mind of
Henry Edgerton.
A
♦
\
. 267
I
LETTER LXIX
I
\
Sir Harry Edgerton to Edward
Willis, Esq.
O M E, my dear Edward, and be witness of our happiness, a happiness which at my brother’s arrival, I considered as incapable of addition;.
yet every hour is marked by its encrease. The other morning, Emma with great gaiety rattled over the keys of her harpsichord, when the door opened, and Sydney was announced — As he entered the room, Frederick started from his chair“ “hero, my deliverer, ” cried he, embracing him; then presenting him to Emma, ** My child, continued he, this is the man to whom you owe your father.” — Augustas cast down his eyes and blushed, but mifsf.dgerton approached, and offering her hdud with inimitable grace, ** My dear, Mr„ syc ney, laid she, how perfect my felicit^v
N 2 when
• ' ft
0
268 T H E
>
when duty gives a Sanction to inclination, and the judgement strengthens the propensities of the heart.”
He presied the hand she offered to his lips; — and rny brother related the accident to which before he had only siightly alluded; Sidney all the while endeavouring by a thousiind Sprightly
Sallies to draw his emma’s attention
/,
from a narrative, the Substance of which was, that coming from Calais to Dover, the sea was calm, and their passage uncommonly tedious; Sydney stepped into the boat, and called to his friends in the packet to join him : they agreed, and preparing the fishing tackle, pushed off to Seek amusement. When they returned with their Spoils, Mr. Edgerton, catching at a rope which was thrown to them from on board, missed his aim, and unfortunately fell into the sea: : jumped in, and Sustained him till he could receive fur there assistance— — brother retired to
the
«
m
 269
the cabin, a fresh gale Sprung from the Southward, and brought them^presently to Dover. — Sydney landed first, took post horses, and set’off instantly. — Some business that required dispatch detained him Several days In London j and Frederick, hearing we were at Bath, reached us a fortnight before him. — '
“My dear Sydney, continued he, you must now permit me to express that gratitude, \yhich you have hitherto sh; studiousiy avoided.”
“cease, I beg of you, my friend — ^ A man never looks so foolish as when, listening to acknowledgements : — the service I was So fortunate to render you humanity enforced, and any other in your situation should have received: but Mr. Edgerton had a double claim to my assistance; and my life were well lost for the father of my Emma Last week the marquis received his bride, and we attended him to the altar, where again, we shortly shall ap
N 3 pearj»
tlyo
pear, and give Emma to Augustus’.^ Amid these pleasures, my dear Willis,
I regret your absence; — but if no inducement can prevail on you to visit Bath, let me hope, that on our return to H — —, you will no longer refuse to join us, and to heighten the enjoyments of
Your ever faithfiil
Heke\ Edgerton,
#
L E T T E R L
Augustus Sydney, Esq. to Sir'
George Danvers.
j^way with those gloomy mortals who tell us felicity was not made • for man : — I have been these three days a convincing proof of the fallacy of their boasted reasoning — Emma is mine as indissolubly as the priest can make her— — Danvers, if that
Sentence
VI
4
%
 271
Sentence is not fusticient to silence these arguers, may the world follow my example, and from experience confute them: — but above all things, let us be careful, my dear George, to cultivate an habitual chearfulness of disposition,
ft
which will blunt the sting of adversity and give new charms to happiness,
ft
4
f
*.
t
FINIS.
r
i
9
\
\
ft
% «
printed for T. Lowndes.
2. ttyood’s Body of Coveyancing, 3 vols.
VV los.
2. tvood’s Inflitutes of the Civil Law, published by Mr. Sergeant Wilson, il. 7s.
3. jacob’s Law diuionarjr, 2i. 2s.
4. camden’s Britannia, 2 vols. 4i. 4s.
5. miller’s gardener’s Diditionary, vvith Cuts, 2 vols. 3i. 3s.
6. pdluethwayte’s Dictionary of Trade and Commerce, 2 vols. 4i. '4s.
7. A two feeet Map of stafford/hire, engraved in i747> with alphabetical Lists of the Hundreds, Towns, c. the whole properly coloured, 2s.
8. New Editions of lowndes’s Marriage Registers, cn Paper, Parchment, and Vellum. twenty-five sheets of demy paper contain 400 complete Registers, which are sold at 4s. Some are printed on Parchment demy size, at is. others on Vellum, at 2s. per leaf.
g. The History of London, from the Foundation to the present Time, including the several Parishes in Westminster, Middlesex, Southwark, c. within the Bills of Mortality. By William Maitland, F. R. S.
and brought down to the present Time by the Rev. Mr. Entick, in 2 vols. with cuts, 4i.
10. milton’s Paradise Lost, with Dr. newton’s .Notes and Cuts, 2 vols. 4to. 2i. los.
11. Dr. cullen’s Materia Medica, is. bound.
12. Rev. Mr. whitaker’s History of Manchester, with Plates. 15s. in boards.
13. Dr. Priestly on Eiedlricity, il is
14. heiftcr’s General History of Surgery, il is
15. anfon’s Voyage, with Cuts and Maps, il is
16. beggar’s Opera, with the Music in Score, 2s 6d
. 17. alexander’s Feast, Semele, L’allegro ed il Pen
ferofo, Occafionai Oratorio, Solomon, Sufannjth, Joshua,
by Fred. Handel, Ef<^; is each
«
i
