( 
\ 
T H E 
i 
Unfortunate Duchess: 
OR, THE' H 
j □ ■■ 
Lucky GAMESTER. 
A " 
N O V E L 
Founded on a true Story. 
w— — I I ■ ■ ■■■ ■ IPWIWI I II iwiw ■■wilini 
Such is the Fate unhappy Women find. 
And such the Curse entail*d upon our Kind, 
That Man, the lawless Libertine, may rove, 
E Free and unquefiiopd through the Wilds of Love: 
Hi while Woman, Sense and. Nature's easy Fool, m If poor weak Wotnan swerve from Virtue's Rule, 
If jirongly charmed, Jhe leave the Thorny Way, 
And in the foster Paths of Pie a fur e sir ay. 
Ruin ensues. Reproach and endlejs Shame, 
And one false Step entirely damns her Fame. 
In vain with Tears the Loss she may deplore, "y In vain look hack to what she was before, ^ 
She sets, like Stars which fall, to rise no more. 3 
rowe’s Jane Shore. 
printed for T. Re ad, in Dogwell court, White friars, Sket 
ftreei. Mdcc XXXIX 
(Price One Shilling.) 
I 
THE 
N 
Unfortunate Duchess: 
i 
OR, THE 
Lucky GAMESTER. 
\ 
? 
* 
Marcomire io i? Dfvi/?<? Alb IS ind A. Madam, 
\ 
HEN I first had the Honour of 
your Acquaintance, among those 
numberless Qualities which rendered 
you So amiable, and your Conversation 
So charming and easy, I 
Sound that Esteem you had for ^ssi¥&visf&s^4^ Plays and Novels to be none of 
the least considerable. It Speaks a tender Soul, and a large Portion of Wit. To pity a feign’d Hero is commendable, because it is a Sure Argument, 
B 2 that 
[ 4 ] 
that Compassion would not be wanting to a real one : And to delight in those Things, which have a certain Air or Passion well represented in them, shows, that the Fancy of the Reader is little or nothing inserior to that of the Writer; for we can take no more pleasure in what we understand not, than in those Things which we understand too well. To remove the Weight of a Sew lazy Minutes, I Send you the fam’d Amour of a' Lady, whom a long Scene of Gallantry has at last render’d obnoxious to the Laws of her Country. Her Mis fortunes make her too well known; and, though she is at present the Theme of her own, Nation, I am confident the Story has not yet reach’d your’s. I am no Such Stranger to your Modesty, as not to foresee, that a minute and exact Account of Some Circumstances would feefti culpable; and, therefore, shall not give you just Grounds for Anger, where my Airn is to divert: Yet, that I may not omit thbfe Things, without which the Story would be too imperfedi, I beg a greater Liberty than is, pierhaps, truly adequate to the narrow Rules of a precise Modesty. 1 am too unfortunate if you think my Nature leads me beyond those Bounds; and, L hope, if anything of that Kind escape unpolish’d, or without a necessary Cover, you will attribute it to Some other cause, or at least fus pend your Judgement, till you See the Author, and permit him to answer for himself. To excuse all other Fausts, remember I love too much to write well, and that when I would fix my Thoughts upon this Subject, I am surpris’d to find my Soul rides Post to you, and leaves me robb’d of Fancy 
or design. ’ ‘ ^ 
# J • t 
In Chi fa (the Metropolis of the wealthy Kingdom of armemsy which is compos’d of the greatest 
-- -- - ....... ......, 
i 
XT 
[ 5 1. ■ 
Half of thb Issand Sindalon) therc liv’d a Beauty, whom Fortune and Nature had jointly bless’d with all tliose Graces which procure Adorers, yet render the Possessor not altogether happy. fste Man could See her and preserve his Liberty, and, therefore, no Man could think himself Secure in the Possession; yet, all the Youth of the Nation figh*d for her, and those whom Fortune had not bless’d with Wealth, gaz’d on the happy exalted Fair, and had those Thoughts for her which we bear to distant Heaven, when yet we cannot paint the glorious Fabric, or hope to reach the Blessing. Her Father (the Earl of Cifala), lov’d her more than Honour; he thank’d the Gods for this mighty. Gift, and with Pride saw himself the Master of a thousand Hearts, by being the envied dispofer of the lovely Eriphile. The travelling God, in all his Race, never beheld a Forni like her’s beneath him; Love shot his Arrows, tstro* the yielding Air, at Random, to consume the Trifles; her Eyes too fast Supply the wilful loss, and strike even those who never bow’d before. She seem’d the unknown Agent of, the all conquering Love for tho’ she had the Softness of a pitying Goddess, and the languishing Looks of a yielding Virgin, yet her Frowns out did even Thunder, and shook the very State of • powerful Love. Believe alufinda^ the only ■ Way to express her Charms and Wit, would be to say, she copied you; and had she prov’d a. nicely virtuous, she had been indeed another Miracle. But Beauty too osteh proves fatal to the Owner, and a beautiful Face a dangerous Enemy to Honour. All Men admire the truly Charming; and continued Assaults niust needs prevail over the befieg’d, or force them, at least, to Articles. 
Among the numerous Youth of Armenis^ none 
could yet pretend to merit the Happiness of her 
B 3 ' £iteesh 
/ 
9 
[ 6 ] 
Esteem, and the young Lovers had no Relief from Pains, but when they remember’d, that Time must advance One to the Heaven they All aim’d at; and not one Was Sure but that indulgent Providence had design’d the bliss for him. 
While thus she reign’d absolute in the Hearts of a thousand noble Cavaliers, the great Duke of Entheon arrived from his Travels. Him too she conquer’d, but paid her Liberty as a Price for the glorious Victory. He is the first subje<5l: of his Country, yet Master of a Soul which infinitely Surmounts his Birth or Quality. He has the Courage of a Man in despair, yet, attended with the Caution and Diffidency of a Coward, or one who values lise. Like Heaven, stow to Anger, but if it concerns his Fame, Sudden in the Execution, and quicker than Lightning. The Liberality of a mighty Prince, and the careshl Management of a private Subject, are equally his. He has the Religion of the Good and Wife, without the Bigotry of the Superstitious and Ignorant: Looks like a crov/n’d Head, yet more affable than the meanest Courtier, and values the Honour of his native Country beyond his private Interest, or his dearer Life. admir’d by all Men but himself, and envied by none but Villains, who damn those Virtues in others to which themselves can not attain He Speaks most known Languages, and is conversant in the History of most Nations. In short. Madam, it is generally Said of him, that his Birth and Breeding make him truly the first Gentleman in the World. Sindalon thought herself inrich’d beyond her neighbouring Countries, and the happy Inhabitants of Artnems look’d on this miraculous Youth as their Genius, or Guardian Angel. Every Man became his Votary, and those who had pass d most of their Years Abroad, did 
'*■' IF f ^ 
/ 
[ 7 ] 
yet feel those little Qualms, and Disturbances of Mind, when they approach’d hini, which bashsul Strangers know in shining Courts, when ey’d by Majesty. The fairest Ladies in Clufa Sighed for him, the king doted on him, and all Mankind rever’d him. ^ 
The Earl of Cifala, among So many, fail’d not to show that Esteem he had for him; and our Duke, who greedily had heard his daughter’s beau ty universally proclaim’d, forgot not to embrace his Friendship. He longed to See the Original, which his Fancy, at secondhand, began to tbrm even beyond what it was, or nature’s Self could make, and already believed, that, in all his Travels, he had Seen nothing comparable to the Fair dri pmle. The earl’s country house was Situated on the fertile Banks of that famous River which Supplies Clufa with daily Necessaries, and, as it peaceably glides along, washes the Walls of its monarch’s Garden. 
Thither the noble Youth went to confirm the loss of his Liberty, which already he had half re fign’d. Cifala, receiv’d him with that respedl: his Merit everywhere exacted, without Regard to Quality, and now thought he had found a Husband worthy of his Daughter: Yet, doubtful of his wish’d success, he acquainted the Fair One with the Arrival of his noble Guest. It was imposhble to live in Armefiis, and not to have heard of him. She understood the Meaning of this Advertisement, and carefully adorned hcrself to the best Advantage; an Art very commendable in Ladies, and in which, those of het Nation are particularly skilid. 
The Earl diverted him Some Time with the Rarities 
of his house. and shew’d him Several Pieces 
% 
of exquisite Painting, done by the greatest Mab 
A sters 
4 
m 
sters of the Age. Entheon^ underwent a Certain unexpressible disquiet, when he view’d a well done Landscape, and wanted Something which these Scenes Suggested to his Fancy, yet could hardly consult his Judgement to find what it was he sigh’d for. At last, they agree to take a Turn in the Garden; where the Earl, meeting with Some Friends, who had come to see him that Evening, was oblig’d to beg the duke’s Pardon, and promised to wait on him in a very few Minutes. 
Entheon^ now left alone, and about to pursue his Walk, was Suddenly arrested by a Song which charm’d his Soul, and tied up all his Thoughts. He wonder’d that he had not Sooner heard this heavenly music, but fancied the Charm was just begun, or not heard to persedtion, because of his late dis courfe with the Earl. He stood Some time immoveable, yet impatient to see her who Sung So like a very Angel: He resolv’d to lose one Part of his present happiness for the Purchase of a greater; and, guided by the enchanting Voice, with eager Steps, he reach’d, at last, the Grove. His curio fity, tho’ great, did not too far extend itself: His Passion never over rul’d his Judgement, and this Jundlure he manag’d with the Discretion of Old age. For, tho’ he could have enter’d, as if Chance, not Design had led him, yet he chose rather to keep himself undifcover’d, and to be bless’d unknown. But when he advanc’d, and Softly had press’d down those tender Boughs wshich obstructed his Sight, Gods! how was he surpriz’d! To paint Lis Thoughts would be a Labour fit for a muse at her full Strength: Let this Suffice, he Saw Eriphile., and grew divinely mad. Mortality was forgot, and he remain’d in that extasy, which, if express’d would Seem wholly irreligious to any Man but a transported Lover, 
'tra 
[ 9 ] 
The Fair One lay in a careless Posture, extended on the yielding grass. Her Foot and half the Leg were obvious to his Sight, and the Scanty Bills prompted his lingering Soul to paint the Beauties yet unseen even beyond the Original, or what Nature, when she us’d her utmost A rt, could Sorm. He curs’d his Fortune which shew’d no more, or else expos’d too much, and sear’d that a Shape, So Sar beyond what his eager Thoughts had created, should be attended with the Alloy of a homely Face j still waiting with the Impatiency of a Man half bless’d ’till Some kind Accident should increase the pleasure. She, who stream’d not of a prying Lover, proves kind without Design, and taking her Favourite Maid by the Hand (with a Voice which gave a perfect Harmony to all her Words) Suddenly cry’d, My dear dm (for that “was her Name) I have unluckily lost one of “my Garters.” The Duke had no Time to weigh his coming Fortune, and consequently lost Part of the Blessing;; the charming Eriphile had no Sooner Said So, than he could See the Petticoat gently removed. The pleasure of a longing Stranger, when the furling Curtain shows a gilded Scene, and warlike Music charms the unsteady Thoughts, Sickens the Mind and thrills the kindled Blood, but never gave a Joy confus’d like his. His Transports were Such (which Some wdll think next Door to Impossibility) that even Nature was hush’d, the Soul alone employed, and plato*s Way of living was here pradlis’d to persedfion. Yet it is probable that, had the old philosopher himself Seen So much, he had quitted the Argument, and given the Body a Conquest over the Soul. The amorous Duke, made too happy, was unable to contain himself, and after he had once survey’d the tempting Object, and her more bewitching 
* « 
[ 10 i 
Witching Face, he Suddenly cry’d out. Oh Heavens! Cain So much Beauty ever give herself up to the Embraces of a Mortal? Sure it is anticipating Heaven to lye panting in her Arms: — It was well the Fair One started from the Ground; the Lover else had prejudged the Duke, and his Raptures had Spoke his Judgement not the Same he poffess’d the preceding Minute. But a violent Love Seldom knows any Bounds, and when Beauty Suddenly as saults the Heart, reason is often dissodg’d, or at least gives Way, and then it is pardonable if a Man raves. However, he begg’d a thousand Pardons for his Sin of Ignorance, and told her that, though he thought himself infinitely blessed by this Encounter, yet, he could have wish’d it had happened at a L ime when she was less dispos’d to Solitude: And offer’d to retire, that by his Speedy Absence she might retrieve a Part of that Silent pleasureshe had lost, tho’ not before he had assur’d her, that, if his Curiosity had led him to the Grove, he paid the Forfeiture of his Liberty as a Punishment for his Offence. 
. The bewitching Maid, not knowing he had seen So much, was pleas’d with the Accident; their mutual Surprise added to the Beauties of both, and she found, by her forced Silence, that the Duke was already more than indifferent to her. Yet, asham’d of this new weakness, she strove Suddenly to recoiled: herself, and confusedly told him, ‘‘ She presum’d he was the Duke of “theon; that her Father and the whole World Spake advantageoussy of him, and she could not think herself unfortunate in the Conversation of a Man So universally esteem’d: But that, if he pays too great a Price for that which inrich’d her, she would be So generous as not to urge 
“him 
\ 
[ II i 
^ ‘ him to So much Bounty, notwithstanding those 
“Advantages she might reap by it. 
This was indeed a polite, obliging Compliment, but the Sair Eriphile already loved him, and already knew it. She had too much Wit, therefore, to lose Such a Savourable Opportunity, of engaging a Man, for whom the greatest Beauty in the Issand would have dispens’d with the Out guards of Modesty, or rather the fuperfiuous Niceties, impos’d by Custom, not reason, upon those of her Sex. 
On the other Hand, the Duke thought himself ■ in Heaven. His excess of Joy almost denied him the use of his reason, and if ever he was non plus’d, let me Suppose this the Jundture. However, from what she Said, he guess’d his Stay could not be altogether unseasonable: And, after he had wittily acknowledg’d the Honour she did him, was about to begin Encomiums on her Beauty, when the Earl arriv’d and made the Number four. He told the young Lover, “He was glad “to find his absence fupply’d by the converfa tion of a young Lady, in whom if he found anything agreeable he was doubly fortunate. 
This too was a handsome Beginning, and the. Duke (who had too noble a Soul not to be amorous) that Moment renounc’d his Liberty, which was repay’d with her’s. To have Seen this lovely Pair, would have kindled Flames in others, when icy Age had banish’d native Heat. The Earl himself curs’d his grey Hairs, griev’d he was born So Ibon; and, to be again capable of loving and fit to be belov’d, would have renounced the world’s Empire, and that Experience which, his Years had brought him. entheops Looks Spake the agreeable Disorders of entheops Mind, and the charming mistress of his Heart, had So much 
of 
* \ 
% 
[ 12 ] 
of a languishing Sbftnels, and. newborn Love in her Eyes, they reach’d his very Soul, and hurry’d him into Ecstasies. The calm Evening added infinitely to their pleasure, nor did they think of parting ’till the falling Dew oblig’d them to a Separation. 
The Duke was already divided from himsels: His Thoughts were wholly imploy’d on the Adventures of that Day, and he was surpriz’d to find himselsin Clufa^ when he had hardly dream’d of his being on the Road. To inform you how he passed the Night, would be a needless Labour; if you have been in Love, you can easily form his Pains, his Hopes, his Fears, and the strange Emotions of his Soul; and is you have not, you would hardly credit the Recital. — As for the beauteous Eriphile^ dear Alhiftnda., I leave her to your unerring Judgement *, doubtless you can divine her Sentiments, and is you never was a Prisoner to restless Love, yet your Fancy can easily paint her Saint Joys, distant Cares, frequent Doubts, and disorder’d Reveries. 
Next Morning, the Duke was at Court, besore 
the King quitted his Bed, and waited the earl’s 
Arrival, with the Impatiency of a young Lover. 
When he came, Entheon., upon the first Occafioii 
told him, how happy he was in being a Father; 
and Smiling Said, “Cifala, Sure you need no 
“more to make you Master of all your Fellow 
Creatures, than to show them what a treasure 
you can dispose of.” The Earl, who could 
never enough esteem a Man of his Merit, was 
much pleas’d with this Piece of Raillery (for So 
he would term it) and told him, The World 
was, indeed, pleas’d to commend his daughter’s' 
Beauty, and that he was heartily Sensible of the 
Honour he did him in heightening her Character r 
<« Fnr 
[13] 
For his good Opinion rnust rieeds be nuic^ to the Advantage of a young Lady Since no Man refus’d to pay Homage to his Judgement and Choice in everything else.” From thi^ Minute let me date their Friendship. The Earl was nowhere to be found but with the Duste; and Entheon must be Sued toby cifald.s Channel. 
Our Lover thought Clufa no other than a de fart, or if a Ball at Court Sometimes oblig’d his mistress to wait upon the Queen, he judg’d himself in another World. He found a livelier Air in every man’s Face, and the transports of his elevated vsoui were fnch that, with Difficulty, he abstain’d from giving public 'I'estimonies of his in? ward Satisfaction. The happy Eriplnle eyed him with Concern, thank’d the Gods for the Blessing of his Love, and knew no real Cares but when she stream’d she did not please enough. Entheon be? came the Object of her Serious Wishes,; and ho never petition’d Heaven without a clause for her. Thus Some Months were consum’d: Love was equally a Friend to both, and mutual Hopes en creas’d their growing Flames. Each of them dreaded the loss of the other, and Entheon haying obtain’d the earl’s consent, h^men could not be wanting in his. In a. Word, they were marry’d, and with the utmost Magnificence. 
I hope, Alhifinda^ you will excuse me, if, for the first Night, J draw the Curtain, and hide her Maiden Blushes, when the hasty Youth took her in his Arms, trembled with the Apprehension of his coming Joy, Spake in Soft whispers, yet Scarce knew what he utter’d, and the beating of his Heart express’d the eagerness of his Soul. When breathless on her panting Breasts he lay, strove to be bless’d again, and again Sunk beneath the 
Weight of the excessive pleasure, or better to 
express 
r ^4 3 
express it, when Love (too prodigally kind) gave him Heaven by the Bulk, without a Strength of Mind adapted to the Bleshng. To paint the Joys of both would be too much; let this Suffice, Ihhe^ lov''d. and were wedded with Consent of Friends, The Days now seem’d Hours, or rather lesser Scenes of happiness than the more welcome Night, and in the Morning, though divided, each of them thought they yet did feel the fast Embraces of the other, and could hardly think themselves unlock’d; So vigorousty had the Remembrance of the soul’s pass’d Joys imprinted itself upon the consenting adfive Body. But this Fair weather was not of perpetual Duration; a Cloud hover’d in the Air, thicken’d on a Sudden, and in Time eclips’d the shining happiness of both. 
Fidelia a Lady whose Wit and Humour had made her, from a mean Station, the exalted ML stress of a kind Monarch, had come (as usually she did once a Day) to see the young dutchess. They were both addicted to Gaming (a Diversion, II' hifindai rarely known to the Ladies of your Country) and having play’d a while at Cards, they resolv’d to visit the Centura, (with us called a playhouse) where desiring to pass Incog, they drelvd for the purpose, and, a little after the Play was begun, they appear’d in one of the Side boxes. Their Clothes and Air drew the Eyes of a full Audience, and the Actors themselves were So much surpriz’d they Scarce remember’d one Cue of twenty, and were oblig’d to the Care of the Prompter for every Sentence they Spoke, who himself had been incapable of rendering that timely Service, had his Seat fronted either the Stage or Pit. The most dating of the Beaux advanc’d, and, tho’they judg’d them of Quality, yet, Since 
they were mask’d, they thought that, without 
^ ' heins 
[ >5 ] 
being guilty of ill manners, they, might attack them. 
Among those the Duke showed himself none of the least forward, and Fidelia (who was freer than, the more modest Eriphile) was the one he assaulted *, she failed not to entertain him kindly, and the Duchess (who would not baulk the Adventure So oddly begun) took up with the first who offer’d himself. He was a handsome Youth, and knew how to address a Lady as well as any Man. The Duchess was very well pleas’d with his Wit and Conversation; she already relished this invisible Way of intriguing, and thought it within a‘ Degree of goddessship to be prayed to unseen. The Duke, who was young and naturally amorous, S, employed the Hours very agreeably, and form’d a Beauty to himself like that of his famed Eriphile^ yet propos’d only this Satisfaction to himlessi that to see her robbed of Modesty, would serve to endear that which himself possessed with constant Virtue joined. 
When the Curtain was dropp’d, the Duchess ey’d Fideliai as if wholly ignorant what to do: — 
She had relied on her; and she (who was all Gaiety and Mirth, and knew well enough how to come off) gave the Duke her Hand, and having seated themselves in the Coach, drove to a noted Tavern not far off. When they enter’d the Room, the Duke humbly begg’d the Lady would unmask. Erinthus (for that was his Name who waited upon the Duchess) did the same, and both their unknown Mistrefles were almost forced to cry out in their own Defence, or choose to undergo a quick Discovery; but our Gallants perceiving they were obstinate, were at last Satisfied with their Fortunes. 
It was a mad Freak on both Sides, and enough to move any man’s Smiles, had he Seen how earnestly 
« 
[ i6 ] 
ly they talk’d, Swore, prais’d and lov’d what yet they had not Seen. The Duke was charm’d with the Wit of his unknown mistress, and underwent 
those Emotions which she never had known but when she first Saw the matchless en theon. At last they betook themselves to Cards, where (at Picquet)erinthus won fifty Pieces from the dutchess; — she readily paid him, and this con firmicd him in 'what he almost before believed, that she was of Quality. This put him upon his Guard, inipir’d him with Care to please; he as sum’d a new Air, and shew’d So much, it Seems, of Gallantry, that the yielding Erifhile was perfectly charmed. 
The Clock, at last, having struck Twelve, founded a Retreat, and they began to think of their respedive Concerns. The Lovers begg’d they would allow them the Honour of waiting on them to their Lodgings: It was readily granted, and the Coach being call’d, it was as readily put in Pixecution. The dutchess had given the Coachman private Orders to drive to her house, and the Duke, whose Mind was much employed, never examin’d the Place ’till he found himself in his own Bedchamber. As he was about to. express his Surprise, Eriphile and Fidelia • unmasked. epmthus first begg’d Pardon for his rude Mistake; and Lntheon ( after he had rouz’d his disorder’d Judgement) smil’d, and. ask’d the dutchess, if what he had done gave her any cause to Sufped his Faith, and hoped fidelia^s. 
^ Wit excus’d him for spending So much Time in her Company, when he had thought his Wife at Home. Eriphile Smiled too, and faintly answered;; Fi. della please, jhe can eafil'j charm, for tvit and Beauty joined can never assault a generous Heart in 
vain. Tfie. Duke was. surpri.?’d with this cold 
Return, 
r 17 ] 
Return, and it is certain the lovely Dutcheff never had us’d him So besore: She was not now jealous, iior had she any reason to fear the loss. - But Erijithus already appeared too charming, and Truth is, it Seems, he had Something about him very taking, and Singularly agreeable: For he had, before that Time, attack’d a Lady of the Same Rank, and had not failed of the Succels he desired. 
You may wonder, perhaps, Alhlfinda^ why I am hot more particular in my Character of this Gallant. But to Satisfy Some Part of your curio fity, know, he owes his Birth to Burgoa^ a Commonwealth, by Trade, their own Industry, and the indolent rbmissnefs of their prouder Neighbours, rais’d to a Height urtlooked for. Surmounting in Wealth rhose very States or Kingdoms from whoih, Some Years ago, they, kneeling, begg’d Protection. Love and Gallantry are Strangers to the Nation; many of their Souls are as phlegma f^ tic as their Bodies, and most of them look like Machines, or tatler walking Tuns. His Parents wete forced to pursue a meah Employment to purchase a Livelihood, ahd the now fortunate Lover, when young, left his Country in a Post Suitable to his Quality ahd Education. But having learned in Armems (what was by no Means to be found at Home) Something of a better Air, and the easy Smooth Wdy of Speaking, peculiar to the Language of that more polite Nation, he Quickly found Preferment. They are naturally kind enough to Strangers, and the Advantages of his person (which Nature it Seems defigh’d hot for a Burgoan) conduced not a little tb his good Fortune. That he was a Lucky Gamejler may appear from this, that, in a very short Time, he purchas’d a 
considerable Estate and became a Companion tcs 
C ihoii 
< 
% 
[i8] 
tliose of the best (^ality in Sinialon. Duke en^ theon us’d Gaming as a wise Man ought to do, that is, for his pleasure : He always play’d without Heat, lost chearftilly, and rarely laid down too much to be dispos’d of by Fortune, remembering always how much of madness it shew’d, to put that to a Hazard which was his own already. 
This accidental Meeting, already mentioned, gain’d him the Flonour of the duke’s Acquaintance : YOU may believe then, Albiftntia., that for the future he was no Stranger, to his house. They passed whole Days together, and Night hcrself could Sometimes hardly part them. Eriphile always pleas’d when he was present, and. lan guissi’d for him when absent. It is true, her Virtue was yet strong, and she struggled with the growing Passion, hid her Griefs with Art, and in her Eyes express’d a quiet Soul. When she play’d, her Thoughts even then were hardly fix’d on Game, nor could she truly grudge the fortunate Erinthus a double Victory. 
The Youth already observ’d his coming hap piness, and, by his Industry to please, advanc’d nearer to that Heaven he wish’d for. It is impossible, when alone, to express her Pains. She Saw how much she lov’d, and from her yielding Heart could judge her Honour tottering. En -- theon still was kind; she knew his Merit, and fain would yet be just: But powerful Love, with double Force assails, and Scatters virtue’s Charms which stop his Way. Nor can he walk with Judge 
■ who was always blind. -- -- -- -- -- Gh Albijinda / 
drat this charming Fair, at last, betray’d her Marriage Vows, is not to be disputed : But, to Say, she fell without a noble Contest, would be too much. No Woman ever knew more, or was mistress of bet » 
tst Inclinations j she vas fensible of her Error[ 
[ 1 
i ^ 
when she tlrew the Guilt upon hei » ti rijcl 
1 4 
even in his Arms (although she lov d) could Iiave wish’d her Soul fled to Save her finking Honour. The World has more than common Charity for the fair Eriphile^ znd Some People Scruple not to affirm, she .yielded. besore She knew fiie had done So. The Story, albifind.a., isj in this Place; known to all, and (even by those'who pretend to the ex actest Knowledge in the State of Affairs relating to this Amourj for a Truth believed. It runs thus:.. < 
The dukci it Seems, had lohg prbsess’d a rfifife 
than common tenderness.for the lovely Parian a Maid generousty educated, and of a noble Spirit; to her mistress just, nor to herself unkind.' No Allurements could prevail, no present found Acceptance, and the weakness of her Nature was always Supported by the Strength of her Virtues But, the Duke growing at last importunate, .and obstinately kind, she Sound it too hard to preserve Honour and his Friendship too. In this pressing Jundlure, she resolv’d to abandon the Family,, and after she Had, with Tears in her eyes, told, the duchess that Some Affair of consequence re quired her absence, humbly begg’d she would make her happy in her Consent. 
Her mistress was too sensible Of her Merit to, lose her without Reludancy; and told her, that if she was anyway disoblig’d, she would have immediate Satisfadlion; nor would she give her • Consent, unless she was first acquainted with those reasons which riioved her Departure. jiariaiew a weeping, and, on her Knees, conjur’d her not to urge what, if betray’d, would give het Pains, unknown. This; instead of .satisfying, increds^d the dutehess’s Curiosity, and she was at last oblig’d, 
to disciose the whole, 
C d Pot 
20 1 
Poof Eriphile was thunder struck with the unwelcome Relation. Her Heart, it is true, already was unfix’d, and she had those Thoughts for Erinthus which Spake him too much Master of her Soul. Yet she lov’d the nobler Entheon., or at least esteem’d him So much, ' that she could not, even in Thought, consent to lose him. In this afflidling Situation her Wit or Invention, at last, offer’d this Relief, which she proposed as the only Means to confirm the Duke her own, and preserve her Daria too. The Maid was Seemingly to yield, to make an Ashgnation, and, that done, she was to leave what tbllow’d to eriphivs Care and Management. This was as Soon performed as projected; for the faithful Daria (whose Beauties were better’d by her new Griefs) was that Day more strongly assaulted than ever, and she could do no less than make an Appointment. Two in the Morning was the Hour agreed upon, and you may believe Entheon thought it long ’till Night. In the Afternoon Erinthus came to see him, of whose Company he was, at that Time, more than ever desirous. To Cards they went, where the Pleasures of Love were for a while forgot, and Game and Wine the bufiness of both. 
Mean Time, the dutchess (willing to enjoy what was for her Maid design’d) took Possession of Dariafs Bed, and with much Impatiency waited the duke’s coming. The Hour at last arriv’d; but Entheon (whether indispos’d by drinking, Sudden conscientious Qualms, or Sitting up beyond his ustial Hour, I know not) had no great Inclination to the Combat. This Freak, .Albiftnda^ is ind eed unanswerable, especially if you weigh the Conduct of this Great Man: But it is confidently affirm’d, that he acquainted Erinthus with the Intrigue; Told him, he found himself at that Time, 
X ^ ^ 

[ 21 ] 
tmfit for the Field, and that, if he pleas’d, he might Supply his Place. The fortunate Youth was ravish’d with the kind Offer, and told the Duke, that. Since he was only to fight for the first Blood, he was proud of the Service enjoyn’d him. In short, Entheon conduced him to the Chamber door, which stood open on purpose for himseltj and there left him. 
The Youth found the Bed in the Dark, and I fuppose, without the Help of a Candle, found the dutchess too. She receiv’d him, as she would have done her Husband, and if she found him richer in his Love, she attributed the cause to' liberal Fancy, which form’d her new, and of a stale Wile made a tender and young Mistress. howsoever it was, they remain’d not long in the State of Ignorance, and each of them wonder’d why the other was filent; for though epinthus would pass for Entheon, and Eriphile would, for a Time, be Daria, yet, the first Joys and transports fled, she began to distinguish the Lover from the Husband, and trembling Said, ikfy dear Entheon, why have 'jou ufd me thus? 1 have been Daria, and under that Name much happier than own. Even when she Spoke she doubted the Truth, and us’d rhese Words only to be. confirm’d in her Opinion. The Lover was ravish’d; the Place, on a Sudden, was converted into a new Heaven, and he only griev’d, that much of his pass’d happi nefs was lost by being so long ignorant of the Value of that treasure he had possess’d. New Love, new Wishes, rouse him up to Life, and before he Spoke he would be blefs’d again, Eru ploilcy ’twixt Fear and Hope, again receiv’d him, and, even in fiis Arms, could hardly know whether she wished him Entheon or not. 
Co At 
\ 
I ] 
At last the fortunate Youth con seis’d himself; : Nd her, That Chance and the duke’s kindness had made him happy, but she alone could keep him in that State : That he had long adopd her, and bountiful Love had now repay’d his Pains: That his happiness should be conceal’d from all the World, and her Honour was now as Secure as if in Entheoffs Arms she fainting lay.” A Crime, when first committed is of greatest Weight, and frequent Repetitions render diose Things familiar, and Seemingly innocent, which we at first view’d with Relucstancy and ' Horror: For a Small Sin, passed over without Griel^ Speaks us in a fair Way towards a greater. The dutchess, it is true, lov’d, and by his Voice knew the happy Man : But then she remember’d the loss of her Honour, Saw how far she had fallen, and trembled when she look’d hack upon the frightful Precipice. She call’d to Mind the duke’s pristine Love, those Thoughts she had for him, when first he found her lying in the Grove, and knew his Meric nothing yet diminish’d. 
This, my dear Albifinda.^ gave the Fair One Some Pain : For, tho’ her Nature had given Consent, her Soul was yet virtuous; and had Erinthus Seen those Tears she shed, all Thoughts of Joy had vanish’d from his Breast; Grief had difarm’d his eager Wishes, and Impotency, by Pity brought, had fupply’d the Place of vigorous Love. But, awifinda.^ it was in the Dark, the Curtains drawn, they were alone, both lov’d, and both forgot their Cares: You may easily believe he had his Share; for thp’ he was a Burgoan.^ that is, a Man whose. Conscience would never baulk his businefs, if attended with pleasurc or Profit, yet he had Somo faint Remembrance of that Injustice, he did to a 
Man who had forgot his mean Birch, made him a 
[ 23 ] 
Companion and Sharer in his pleasures, and had, or at least thought So, bestow’d that Prize upon him, in the Seeming Possession of Darias which he himself had Sought for many Months. In a Word, all Complaints were hush’d; thedutchess forgot what she once was, what yet. she ought to have been, and own’d dier Love was stronger 
than her Virtue. 
% 
When the Youth retir’d, her Cares again increas’d, she griev’d a loss she could not then retrieve, and, weeping, tvish’d the bufiness still undone. these indeed were the first Motions of her primitive Soul; but Love again brought it to a modern Constitution : She consider’d how Securely she had enjoy’d the Man she lov’d, and flatter’d herself with the Thoughts of being really innocent, because the World yet thought her so; and believ’d the Manner in which it happen’d extenuated the Crime. In the mean Time, the Duke had waited the Return of his Friend, if now I may call him so, and. Smiling, asked, How happy 
he had been ?” Erinthus gave him a thousand Thanks for that Testimony he had receiv’d of his Friendship; but told the Adventure with so much Indifferency, that Entheon could hardly grudge that Favour he had bestow’d upon hinis When he went to Bed, he was y et insensible of hislofs: was almovely, and chat Crime 
against his Love, he had almost committed,. endear’d the Objects of his Wishes more than all her wonted Charms, or native goodness. He found her Melancholy greater than usual, griev’d that she was not So kind as she used to be, earnestly ask’d the cause; and, to comifort her. Swore, that he had for her that noble Love which our first Father bore to his lovely Eve beshre the Fiend debauch’d her. She trnve him 
C 4 ieigji CL 
[ H ] 
feign’d Returns, alledg’d she was indisposm, ask’d Pardon for her Seeming Indifferency, and Saintly say’d, She did believe he lov*d her. The kind Duke was Satisfied; and in a few Minutes the Cares of both were swallow’d up in Sleep. 
This Account, aluftnda,, is by Some rejected, and your busy Meeters, or News pimps, who pretend to know everything, confidently affirm, that Erinthus had won So much from her at Play, she was necessarily oblig’d to pay the Sum with a Favour which might have been the Price of Empire. 
Next Day he came to wait upon the injur’d Duke,, or, rather the kind Duchess, and forgot not to improve every Opportunity to the Advantage of his Love. In a little Time he became too happy, or, at least, too often So: And if the generous Entheon had in the least fuspedted the Fair eriphiw*?, weakness, or his Friendship, their Guilt had been too obvious. His noble Confidence made him too Secure, ’till a certain Adventure, which happen’d Some Time after, taught them more Caution, and him a greater Share of jealousy. 
The Duke, it Seems, was oblig’d to attend the King, who then had his Court twenty Miles from Clufa. The dutchess knew this the preceding Night, and had therefore order’d everything necessary for the Reception of her Lover. Her Husband took Coach about Eight next Morning, and efinthus was to wait upon her Grace at Three in the Afternoon. She thought every Hour had borrow’d from Eternity, and griev’d she had delayh her happiness So long. She, Sighing, lay upon the yielding Bed, and under the modish Covert of a Sudden indispofition, occasion’d by a Cold she never had, avoided the 
tinleashnahlfi; 
9 
I 25 ] 
unseasonable visits of her troubleshme Friends: Daria was alone privy to the Intrigue; and, though she had all that respedt for the dutchess which her Duty in the stridlest sense could exact from her, yet, she grieved to find her Virtue So much weaken’d, and wish’d her innocent as when first she knew her. 
Eriphile had the goodness to excuse herself as handsomely as she could; painted her Lover dress’d with all his Graces about him, and shew’d the Power of Subtle Love in Words which Ipoke her knowing in the Mystery. Poor Daria figh’d as if herself endured those Pains of which her Lady complain’d, and, by her Looks, confess’d her inward Griefs. The dutchess caresully observ’d her frequent Change of Colour, and the Flushing of her disorder’d Blood, and ask’d, If Love had ever led her Captive? ” The tender Damsel blush’d, and, by her Silence, confess’d the Truth of what her mistress had osten much suspe(sted. She charg’d her upon her Allegiance, as she would preserve her Esteem, and make her think she lov’d her, she would relate the Whole, and, by the Story of her Love, divert her Melancholy, ’till the Arrival of the fortunate Erinthus. Daria excus’d herself from the Performance as well as she could : But Seeing it was not accepted, she sigh’d, was Some Minutes filent, and, addressing herself’to the dutchess, began as follows; 
You know. Madam, I was born in Scarromany your Sister nation, and of the Same Religion with yourselves; a hardy, warlike People, yet no Strangers to Love: And, tho’ we lye North from Armenis.^ and, by our Bounds, make up the Half of this Issand, yet we Seem nearer the Torrid oie, than you. My Father was a Gentlemari 
^^erv 
[ 26 ] 
very much esteem’d; and, tho’ his Fortune did not prefer him to that Height Sis Soul always aim’d at, yet his Humour and agreeable Conversation made him the Darling of his greater Neighbours, and he match’d with a very ancient Family, rich in Friends, and every Way truly preserable.to his own. 
I was the first and last Pledge of my Parents Love, and was ever doted upon by those who Saw me, for that resemblance I had of the Fair Julietta (for that was my mother’s Name) and. Arijieon (my kind. Father) esteem’d his young Daughter even beyond Life or Empire. He Sought Wealth only to bless me in a. noble Marriage, and with Secret Pride already eyed my growing Beauty. Our Neighbour in the Country, the great Dion, who, tho’ a private Gentleman, can, for the Service of his Prince, muster an Army of his own Vassals and Dependants, to the Number of Some thousands, had a Son whom all in general refpeefied, whom many Beauties figh’d for, and none attack’d with success. I was then in my Sixteenth Year, and, tho’ I had often Seen him and heard him prais’d, yet my Heart had never Submitted to his Charms. 
That Friendship which vras between my Father and his drew them often together, and the generous Dio; r has frequently pass’d whole Weeks at our house. It once chanc’d that, while he rode a hunting, not sir from us, and eager in the Chase, the horse fell down a doping Bank, and bruis’d his hardy Rider. My Father, deeply concern’d for this Misfortune, immediately Sent for his Son. The handsome Youth came to our house with Tears in his Eyes, and mourn’d over his aged Father with the tenderness .of a weeping Mother when grieving for the loss of her Darling Infant, Therg was So much of the Man mix’d 
4 ■ ■ « 
with 
[' 2? 1 
with a woman’s sostness in his Pains, that I could not chose but observe it. I was insensibly pleas’d with every Word he Spoke, and. Sighing, wish’d 1 had a Brother like him. His Tears for the old Man brought mine, and I weeped asresh for Dion more earnestly than when first he got his Hurts. Young Odinar, for So the Son was named, took Notice of my Cares, and from my tenderness and Compassion argued the easiness of my Soul. I shall not. Madam, praise my own Beauty; but he has afterwards told me, that the Softness I then shew’d reach’d his Heart, and from Small Griefs wound him up to Pity % and, tho’ he had no Cause much to Sorrow for me, yet my Pains to hirri shew’d double, and from Compassion drew him up to Love. 
I was one Evening walking in the Garden, disordered in my Thoughts, and examining myself to find, 5 if that Uneasiness I knew proceeded froin my Love to Odmar. But as I began the Scrutiny, he entered, who alone could confirm the Truth of' what I fear’d, I trembled as he approach’d, > wish’d him gone, yet lov’d to See him stay, and Scarce could tell what Thoughts possess d my Heart. The lovely Youth Soon apologiz’d for intruding upon my Retirement, and you may east ly imagine how readily I forgave him. 
A pleasant River runs at the Back of our Garden wall, and beyond that a Spacious Green, where feeding Flocks attend the shepherd’s Call, forget their present Wants, and listen to the loved Music of his tuneful Pipe. There labouring Swains, when Toils out strip the Day, dance with the Maids they love, and cheat those Pains by cruel Labour brought. The Gardener, it Seems, had by Chance left the Back door open, and there being a tarrass walk upon the Top of the 
''. ‘ ■ Bank; 
% 
/ 
/ 
Bank, wc resolv’d from thence to view the open Fields. The Water murmur’d beneath us, and the little Fish wanton’d in the Streams. The Setting sun look’d back on that vast Track he had left behind him, griev’d to lose that prospedt once he had, and as he stoop’d beneath the Veil of Night, rouz’d up himself with eagerness, and, by a Flash of newborn Light, would gild the dissant Mountains. Just So a Lover when he quits the Shore, with Trouble views the mistress of his Vows, longs to be nigh, yet, still he Hides away, and when he’s almost banish’d from her, Sight, he stands aloft and glads her from afar, and by his Gestures shows he fain would stay. In a Word, Madam, the Place and the Company very much charm’d me, and I did feel that painful Joy at my Heart wshjch Ipeaks us sick with Love. 
Among other Matters, I ask’d Odmar, if his father’s Pains were yet abated, if he hop’d a Speedy Recovery? and told him, That, tho’ I ** was proud of his Company, yet I could not choose but grieve the Occasion which brought us So often together.” “Madam, replied he, I cannot be So happy in this World, as when 1 am in arifieod.s House, and yet I think it fatal “to me; for, as the fatheii’s Pains decrease, the son’s are still augmented, and those Torments which did oppress the old man’s Body, are doubly charg’d upon the young man’s Soul.” I blush’d as he Spake, and So many crowding Thoughts fill’d my Breast, I was unable, from the confus’d Heap, to produce one to serve the present Exigency. My unseasonable Silence shew’d I understood his Language too well, and had before thought pf (nay, it may be wishm for) wshat I heard. 
[ 29 ]., 
Odmar read his good Fortune in fny Eyes, and, willing to make use of the lucky Minute, threw himself at my Feet, conjur’d me to remember, ‘‘ That his lise and Fortune depended on what I was about to Say; that one kind Word gave ‘‘ him Heaven, and my Anger made him the un “happiest of Men: That it was impossible for “him to live without me, and he would sorseit everything he held dear on Earth for the 
“greater Blessing of my Love.” -- -- -- -- His Fears, 
Madam, were vain; I esteem’d him too much to give him more of Pain, and reply’d in Terms which Spoke him not indifferent to my Soul. Had your Grace Seen his Looks, when he found me So calm, in Spite of all your Modesty you would have doted on him, and I dare Say, it was impossible for Woman to have us’d him otherwise than I did. 
Dion at last recover’d, and I must Say, tho’ I wish’d him well, I griev’d his Health restor’d, because, by his absence, I was robb’d of Odmar. Our parting yet presents itself to my View, and I See the lovely Youth drown’d in Melancholy, asham’d of his weakness, yet weeping as he Spoke. His house was but three Miles from ours. I bid him remember that Conveniency, and propos’d an Interview at least once a Week. The Youth, who was overjoy’d to find me So kind, and indulgent to his Flame, was almost dumb with extasy, and Swore he never could merit any Part of that goodness 1 had shown; and, that his Life was not of Worth enough to repay my Stock of Love. 
When he was gone, methought I yet Saw him, heard him, tasted his Soft Kisses, and gaz’d upon the Fantome. My tender Heart could hardly bear the Burden of a long week’s absence. A 
thousand 
‘. C 30 ] 
thouiailci Times t trac’d the tarrass walk, and if from afar I espy’d ought resembling Humankind, I long’d and wish’d it him. Odmar {h?lfd in every Thought, and my father’s house look’d ruinous, dead and decay’d, since the Departure of the Sprightly Youth. I remember’d every Word he Spoke, when first he Swore he lov’d, and curs’d the Hour which, took him from my Sight. 1 blush not. Madam, to say, no Woman ever lov’d like Dana, and no Man ever merited more than Od mar. 
. V » 
To avoid discovery, I was to meet him a Mile from our house; the River already mention’d, which runs by the Garden, chalk’d out my Path, and I went along upon die dewy Banks, and shaded from the Sun by Spreading Oaks. When we met, it was impossible for either of us to express our. Joys: We gaz’d, figh’d, and embrac’d, as if our Souls had joyn’d; griev’d that Time flew too fast, and wish’d the Minutes Years. Whatever he Said was welcome to my Ears, and tho’ I listen’d to his Voice with all the pleasure of a transported Maid, yet I osten broke the Thread of his dil course, by asking a thousand little kind, yet insignificant Questions, because, like him, I would show how much I lov’d. Thus have we employ’d ^ Several Hours, then griev’d and parted, tho’ never before we had fix’d the Day for our next Interview. At this Time we rail’d at Fortune and our Stars, and mourn’d we could not meet to stay for ever. But had we known the coming, 111, we then had judg’d ourselves truly happy. 
My Father, it seems, had osten miss’d me and found, by constant Observation, that I was absent, twice every Week, and always at the Saule Hours. He knew not at first what to think of this Adventure : He dream’d not of Odmar, and 
[ 31 ] 
wonder’d much that I should walk Abroad alonei It is true, he had taken Notice of my Melancholy, tho’ ignorant of the cause, and was now afraid that I began to humour that weakness of the Mind, which So often proves Satal to the Beauty and the Judgement of its Slave, knowing that while we humble the Mind too Sar, we fink the Body quite. But then again considering my Years, my few Cares (unless I lov’d) his and my mother’s kindness to me, he could hardly credit that Thought. To rid himself, therefore, of his Doubts, " he resolv’d to watch me narrowly for the future, ' and in person make a true and wish’d Discovery,, the hidden Secret. 
The early Day drove on the yielding, Night, and, as the latter, fled, the first in View appear’d, proud of the Conquest, and growing in his Strength. The happier Gods lay stretch’d upon their Beds, and, loath to rise, rais’d up their awful Heads, look’d down, and shuffl’d by the thicker Clouds, to See if busy Mortals yet were stirring; but viewing the darlv and Solitary Globe, they shrinking again beneath the Covert of the Night half fled, and clos’d up the Gap of Heaven to wait the Arrival of the advancing Day. In a Word, ma dam, it was very early in the Morning when I arose, and took that Road which led me to mv Lover. My Father follow’d me So close, that tinseen he posted himself behind a Bush, hard by that Shade where gentle oii/»t2r lay. 
When I appear’d, the Youth arose and caught me in his Arms, “Oh! welcome to my Breast She cry’d) my beauteous, generous Djri^! What Love can repay this Favour? or what Words ‘‘ express my boundless Joy! when all the world steeps, we two are awake, and kind Daria robs ^ herself of Rest to ease her Odmar from the 
Pains 
4 
, [ 32 ] 
« •, Pains of absence apijteon^ who Saw how familiarly he embraced me, and distindly heard every Word he Spoke, was strangely surpriz’d, and wish’d himself in the other World, that he might be insensible of that Afffont he already thought done 
hini in this i and doubted not but I was borii 
/ ___ ^ 
for his Ruin, and the disgrace of his Family. 
He was a Man, Madam, rigorousty good, ahd lov’d me also tenderly : From this you niayea fily imagine the Troubles of his Mind, and with what Difficulty he contain’d himself. While od mar^ Spoke, I had a Sudden Trembling at my Heart *, newborn Fears oppress’d my easy Soul, and I was lick with the apprchension of Some coming Danger, yet could not foresee how, or from whence the dreaded 111 should come. My Odmar was Senfibly afflicted with the unlook’d for Change, threw himself at my Feet, and Sighing, cry’d, O my Daria, whence this new Coldness to the Man who loves you! Tou have hben kindy I 
halts been more happy and -- - — Arifteon.^ ho longer 
doubting what before he much had sear’d, with Fury in his Looks appear’d. He continu’d Some Time Silent, his Passion denying him the Liberty of Speaking, or it may be he waited ’till his Heat abated, and his Judgement should take Place. My Surprise, Madam, is not to be painted in Words, and kind Odmar grieved, and look’d on 
me languishing. 
My Father steadfastly ey’d me, and taking me by the Hand, which eagerly he grasp’d, he calmly, but refolvedly Said, “Well, Daria! 
you have undone yourself, and banish’d fiase ‘‘ from me. My Misfortune comes from that Side from whence I least expeded any unkihd ness, and Odmar wrongs that Man, who Would 
have laid down his Life for his, or Dion Ser 
✓ 
% 
f 33 ] 
** vice. Ah! Why did he ask? or why did you consent? I have no comsort now, but that the tender Julietta is yet ignorant of her daughter’s weakness.” My Lover was So amaz*d he knew not what to Say : But, Sailing on his Knees, he embrac’d those of Arifteon^ and, at last. Swore by all the Powers above, he never yet design’d him any Harm, and that his Daughter was virtuous even to a Fault. “But is innocent Love, added he, or chaste mutual Flames were Crimes, he own’d we were both guilty and deserv’d his Anger. “daria^s Birth, continu’d he, is in nothing in ^ Serior to odmar’s; and if my Fortune sur mounts her’s, her Virtue turhs the Scale, and, with her Beauty joyn’d, weighs more than diod.s Wealth, or all the glorious Riches of “the Indies. 
My Father, with Tears in his Eyes, rais’d him from the Ground, and again taking me by the Hand, Said, Come, come, Daria^ these are fine Baits to catch Fools and ignorant easy Maids withal. Odmarj for your father’s Sake, “I cease to resent this Injury as I ought, tho’ you have hurt me in the most tender Part. She has “been kind.y 'jou have been happy : But neither of you shall be so again, and now you part for “ever.” This Said, he turn’d his Face and mine away, and curs’d the Hour brought Odmar to our house. To have Seen the afflicsted Lover, for I would needs look back, would have baffl’d all the Precepts of pstilosophy, and turn’d the strongest Reason and most fortified Judgement into downright madness. My Soul was in a persedl Frenzy, and 1 could have rail’d against Heaven and Nature, and damn’d that wanton fiippery Minute which gave me first a Being. 
D When 
[34] 
When we came Home, I retir’d to my Chamber. To tell you my Thoughts, Madam, would be to undertake a Task which would, even now, distradt me. I confider’d my loss, my indiscreet Management, my poor father’s Grief; and, by his Concern and Love for me. Soon found, that I ought not to have done anything of that Consequence without his Knowledge and consent. I remember’d his Tears, his Silence by the Way, for he had not utter’d a Syllable upon the Road, the Words my Lover used, which might give him just Grounds to suspeft my Frailty: But most of all I remember’d my afflicted Odmar. Methought, I yet Saw him Speaking to my Father, yet, eying me, and Scarce Master of his Judgement, So much for me he fear’d. 
My Mother wonder’d she had not Seen me all that Day, and inquiring for me of ari§feon., she was told, I kept my Chamber, that he had Spoke i Some Things to me,, which, tho’ not harsh in themselves, yet had brought my Tears; and defir’d her to assure me, that he was again pleas’d, and pardon’d what, could not be recall’d, if, for the future, I forbore to offend in that Kind. Julietta desir’d he would impart the cause of this little Quarrel, and told him, she was afraid he had been unjust to me, because she knew I dreaded to displease him. besides, she was confident my Nature led me not to anything, ^yhich in the least look’d like disobedience. My Father Said, he knew it was So, and that he was Sorry for what he had done. You See, Madam, he had the tenderness of a kind Parent, and thegoodness of a just Husband. He already forgot, as much as poshble, what he had heard and Seen; my Tears had melted him, and after he had Serioussy .examined Words, the Hopes of finding 
me 
^ \ 
[ 35 1 
me truly innocent yet cheat’d his Soul, and, by quick Degrees, had rais’d him up to better kinder Thoughts. To Julietta he was just in the Com cealment of what had brought her too many Fears; and to show the goodness of his Humour, from my Infancy I observ’d, that he had the ten derness of a young Lover for her, study’d to please as if he yet courted her Esteem. She was a mistress and a Wife, and never griev’d without a constant Sharer. 
When she came to See me, she found my declining Head Supported by my Arm: 1 was half asseep, my Sorrows having wearied out my active Thoughts,, and burden’d yielding Nature. Unwilling to awake me, she was about to retire, when her hasty Steps prevented all her Cares, and roused me still I started from my Lethargy. I doubted not but that Arijieon had fully inform’d her of what had pass’d, and throwing myself at her Feet, “I conjur’d her to believe me innocent: Swore I never yielded, even in Thought; that the generous kind Odmar had a better Opinion “of my Virtue, than to think of, or propose a “Thing which would have given me Cause eter nally to hate him: That I was faulty in nothing but in concealing a Secret of that Weight from my Father and her: But that I should atone for that Crime by my future Conduct. My Mother was much startled with what she heard; but, being of a ready Wit, easiiy conceal’d her former Ignorance, and pleasantly ask’d me. Why Arifteon was incens’d against Odmar? If “you conceal d it, added she, where was the Crime Come, tell me all again, for I am '' afraid your Father was biass’d by his Passion 
when he insorm’d me of the Adventure.” -- -- -- 
You may believe, Madam, 1 fail’d not to obey, 
D 2 and 
\ 
t36] 
and thereupon gave her a true Account of whatever concern’d my Love, and that discovery my Father had made. While I told the Story, I could observe strange Changes and Alterations in her Looks. By Turns, she ey’d me with Concern, Anger, Fear, Joy, and gries. However, the Relation once ended, she threw her Arms about my Neck, weeping with the Sudden Tran iport of indulgent Thoughts, and assur’d me, “She had Seared much my weakness, because I “yet was young; but that now, all her Fears were vanish’d, and she believ’d me virtuous: That Arifleon had conceal’d from her what had occurr’d that Day, yet, had Sent her to insorm me, that he Sorgave me all. 
This, Madam, gave me a double Joy, and I could hardly forbear laughing when 1 confider’d my pass’d Thoughts, my Fears, and that ugly Face which my dejecsted Fancy had given to my Fortune, and now Saw that which I had industri oussy sorm’d to augment my own Pain in half a Minute vanish’d. I thank’d my Mother for her tenderness and that good Opinion she had of me, and just asjl Spoke my Father enter’d. He had left me in Tears, and the Fondness of his Nature made him impatient ’till, in Some measure, he had restor’d my Peace of Mind. 
“Daria^ Said he, you See I am a [kind Father, “and, tho’ you have offended, I come to Sue for Pardon, and am pleas’d to consess I wrong’d you. “Come, my Dear, for the future let us have no cause for just complaints from either Side, and let me hope that you truly deserve that good Opinion I have of you. 
My Mother Said, “She, would answer in my Behalf: For though I had been weak, yet she was persuaded Odmar had a greater respect“ 
“
[ 37 ] 
for him than to attempt the Dishonour of his “Daughter.” Ha! ^ cry’d Arifteon') then my^ii lietta^ you have found the Occasion of our “Quarrel?” Yes (reply’d she) and am Sorry you 
, “made a Secret of what the World may know, without Prejudice to her Honour, or that of our house.” Arifleon answered; That at first ‘‘ his Fears were, perhaps, too great, but liow his “Mind was at Rest, and I could only keep him So by my Solemn promise, besore my Mother, 
“never to lee Odmar^ or to love him more. 
This, Madam, was a hard proos of my Obedience, and at first I was very much surpriz’d with the proposal. But Suddenly, remembering that it was no mortal Sin is I should See my Love afterwards, I gave the Proof of Allegiance dessr’d, and engag’d never to converse with him again, unless one or both were present. 
Thus, Madam, the Storm I So much dreaded blew over; my Sin of Love was forgot, and I absolv’d for a Performance of the Penance enjoyn’d me. How far I play’d the Penitent, you may easily judge by what follow’d in a very few Days. 
Dion came to our House, ‘ as he us’d to do, attended by two or three Servants. Methought I had a more than common Interest in them, and could hardly forbear testifying So much to his very Slaves. I ey’d them with a Passion which is not easily to be express’d; for I cannot positively Say that I hop’d for anything from them: And yet my Mind gave me, that Odmar poshbly might have Spoke to Some of them, and, if he had not written to me, at least commanded them to observe my Eyes, and afterwards inform him if there they Saw any Signs of Languishment or Sorrow for his Absence. In each of their Faces, for, from my Window, I could See them playing 
\ 
[ 38 ] 
in the Court, methought I read my own Misfortune; remember’d, that next Night they would be with Odmar^ yet were insensible of the hap piness, and almost dy’d with gries, when I thought the dear Youth had not Sent me any Mark of his continu’d Love. 
In this dejected Humour I retir’d; left the old People together, and in the Garden Sought for Ease where first I lost it. Riga for that was the Name of one of the Servants, follow’d at a Distance, and taking an Alley which cross’d that in which 1 walk’d, he met me as if Chance had led him. You may believe, Madam, I was pleasantly enough surpriz’d when he gave me a Letter; and Smiling told me, his young Master had been Post to himself, if Dion had not prevented him. When i receiv’d it, I Scarce knew what to Say; and, I must consess, I had not ivrt enough to hide my inward Joy. Having open’d it, I found these W ords: 
My Daria, 
would to Heaven jon knew the ’^roubles of my 
anxious Breads and all those Pains which rack my hurdepd Soul. Oh Daria! if Arisseon j Frowns have hardfed Odmar frotn your Hearts I am the mod. wretched of Humankind. Phinkl ^lhink., my Dear of feme Means to procure me that Happiness / once pojfejs. To see thee and to hear thee speak, gives those Joys which even a Lover cannot half express, I'am mad between Grief 
and Love : I would write more but -- -- r Oh re f 
wemher that during this Hbfencey I am 
Thy unhappy 
Q D M A R, 
\ 
[ 39 ] 
How much I lov’d, and how this Letter was receiv’d, may appear from my answer; — Which was to this purpose, if my Memory Serves me right. 
/ 
My Odm A R, 
IF you love like tm.^ I can easily pd.int your Con ’ cfrn, and all those Pains which rack you: And to convince you that no Power can hanijh Odmar from his t!t2iv\2ds Thoughts ^ I will see you and peak to youy though obliged to the contrary by a solemn pro mife. to morrow^s Night theny at Nine come to the back door of our Gardens on that Side next the Fields, and in the New lodge you Shall find 
Your longing 
Daria. 
$ 
The Lodge much resembl’d a Pavilion : It was stor’d with Books and Pictures, and from the Window you might see three Rivers join into one Body, and falling from a mighty Precipice in View, you would have thought they shak’d the very Floor on which you stood. The bubling and hollow noise of greater Streams would have provok’d your Melancholy, and fed the Lamp of Love. I had of late much frequented that Place, and had the Key myself. Could I think of one more convenient for this stolen Interview? It was there I wrote my Letter undifcover’d, and there refolv’d to meet my wish’d for Lover. • — — My Father, indeed, alone us’d to poffess it; but, on the other Hand, I remember’d that I had not Seen him there for at least a Year. In a Word, Madam, I thought the Place very Secure, and 
P 4 already 
[ 40 ] 
already wish’d the Night gone, which stood like a heavy Age between me and my happiness. me thought I already Saw the transported Youth Sighing at my Feet, melting my Heart, and conquering as he Spoke. 1 stream’d of nothing but OL mar or, is I awak’d I Scarce knew that I did So, for the lovely Image was So strongly imprinted, I knew not if my Judgement or my active Fancy form’d him. 
When Day appear’d, the Morning mov’d sh, faintly, I really thought the lingering Night had dat’d him to the Combat, and .vow’d the Sole Possession of the Skies. I quitted my Bed So early, that, from my Chamber window, I could nqt descry anything awake but myself; a dead Silence reign’d in every Part, and not one watchful Bird yet welcom’d in the Light; the yielding Grass lay cover’d over with Dew, and the nodding Trees Spoke Nature in a Slumber. To any but a love lick Maid, this had been no other than 
^ i ' V *' 
a melancholy Scene, and I must own, that even to myself it appear’d no less: But from that Melancholy my pleasure grew. Love, in Absence, is naturally dejedted and languishing, and I firmly believe, at least I think So, that when we are alone, and, the Fancy is‘stronger than when reason drives our Passions from our Breasts, and hardens the Soul, which Love or Grief before had melted down and made pliant for any Impressions. 
While thus I stood and thought of Odmar and the far distant Night I could see, tho’ with Some Difficulty, a Man on horseback: I waited impatiently ’till he approach’d; for those who love much hope ease from everything: At last I knew him to be Odmar% Servant, Riga. After I had ask’d concerning his master’s Health, and told him that I would awake Some of the Servants 
fr[ 
[ ] 
to let him in, I stole gently downstairs myself, and, changing my Voice to a sharper Keyj de fir’d to know if he had bufiness with my Master?, meaning my Father. for it was he, and 
knew me not, answer’d, No. He begg’d Pardon for that Disturbance he gave the Family, Saying, “He had lost. Yesterday, Some Papers of Consequence, and was Sure he had dropp’d them in our house, and, to his best Knowledge, the last Time he had them was in miss daria’s Chamber, when he waited upon his Master.” This increas’d my Hopes, and I firmly believ’d it was a Plot of odmaas; and, willing to be Speedily resolv’d, I ask’d him by Way of Whiff per, IS he had not a Letter for my young mistress?” No, Said he, in a Seeming pash t 
‘‘ on, from whom should it come?” Why, re ply’d I, she wrote to Odmar Yesterday, and from “him expected Some answer.” Did she! cry’d he, I know nothing of the Matter: I came out early in Search of my Papers, and am oblig’d, by Seven, to attend my Master, Dion, because this Day he goes a. Hunting with Some of his ‘ ‘ Neighbours. But, added he in another Tone, pray. Sweetheart, if it is possible, let me into miss daria^s Chamber, for there, I am per suaded, I shall find my Papers. 
I was vexm, and knew not what to make of this Adventure: If my Father had Seen me, I had been undone. The Fellow told me, he had no Letter for me, yet wanted to be in my Room, and told the Story of his Papers with So much Gravity and earnestness, that 1 could hardly doubt the Truth of what he Spoke. Unwilling nevertheless to betray iny own weakness, I still personated the Maid, and faintly told him, That he might come Softly upstairs, and stay at 
« the 
t 
[ 42 ] 
the Door, still I had received her Orders.” He follow’d, and when I enter’d my Chamber I was even Sick with Grief. I wonder’d much that od mar had not written to me, and thought, if he eagerly had long’d to See me, he had miss’d no Opportunity of telling me So, and of returning those Thanks my too obliging Letter well de lerv’d. However I was yet unwilling to condemn him; and, to divert that Pain the Thoughts of his unkindness brought me, 1 ran immediately to the Door, where I had almost Sorgot poor Riga; and Night being wholly fled, he could perceive by my Morning gown who it was then admitted him, and, after a low Bow, presented me with a Letter from Odmar. 
I have lost no Papers, Madam, Said he, but you See I have presum’d to bring one, and from a Man who would renounce a Year of that Term of Life allotted him by Destiny to “See you as Securely now as I do.” riga’’s good Conduct and obliging Compliment So prevail’d upon my stuttering, joyful Heart, that I could not for my Life delay that Reward he deferv’d still I open’d the Letter. The saithsul Servant thank’d me for my Bounty, destr’d me Speedily to read what he had brought me, and assur’d me I should ever find him constant to his young master’s Interest, if, I had not tied him to it by my Liberality. The Words, Madam, if I remember well, were these. 
My Generous Daria, 
I 
I Am happ'j beyond my Hopes or what the moji Ambitious could ever wish. Oh! every Minute Shows a painful plofr^ till that marked out for my Felicity arrives. / will see thee by Heaven though all 
ths 
[ 43 ] 
the Elements at once oppofd me : Let the Gods he pajfive^ and nothing Shall Jlop my jvay. • 1 Shall for ever more remember Nine; for that dear Hour my Daria chose to bless her Odmar, shall for the future he fet apart for Love and Gladness. Oppress me with heavy Cares all Day., I will shake off the Burden when that lucky Hour comes remember the hap pinefs it now brings me and even while the Clock strikes, will always dote upon the very Sound j as being. 
Your saithsul 
Odmar* 
I considerm this Letter as the Effect oshis Love the very Product of his real Thoughts, and knew, by his Style and Freedom, he had remember’d it was in sase Hands, and would be with secresy enough convey’d to mine. However, lest the servant’s Stay should have render’d his Errand liable to suspicion, I durst not write, and only bid him tell his Master, “I was pleas’d with ‘ what he had Sent me, but could give no im mediate Return, unless he hazarded a disap pointment at Night, as undoubtedly it would come to pass, if I should be suspeded in the Morning of holding any Correspondence with my kind Odmarf* The Servant withdrew, and I could See him mount his horse before any of the Family were awake. 
You may wonder. Madam, when you confider my reserv’d Way of Living, and coldness ol Temper, how I was then So kind, and perhaps you may quarrel my Fondness too, and that expresh on, my kind Odmar; but if your Grace confider my Years, and that my Inclinations were virtuous, methinks it will not appear strange, or faulty: 
For 
\ 
\ 1 
[ 44 1 
For in honourable Love there can be no Crime; and whatever we Say of obliging and tender is certainly pardonable, if we do it as we ought, which in the first Place, is toconfider is we are truly be lov’d, the Merit and Condudf of our Lovers, and most of all, to do it privately and with Caution; for even Crimes themselves (when we confess the Truth) is done in Secret, give not half that Trouble to the Mind, which public Trifles bring. I read the Letter a hundred Times, and in thatlm ploy consum’d the tedious Day. When the Hour approach’d, I endured those Pains to which I had been a Stranger, or at least had not besore that Time thought of. I fear’d that if Odmar caine too Soon, my Father or Some of the Servants might see him in the Fields; and if I should go to the Lodge before the Hour prefix’d, I should be miss’d and search’d for. These Thoughts made me very uneasy. However the Danger I fear’d from the last Accident was the least, and I ven tured down into the Garden. 
I had no Sooner open’d the Door, than I found my hasty Lover muffled in his Cloak. The kind Youth caught mein his Arms. “Oh my d<^ rial tery’dhe) I am lost in Ecstasy, pardon me if I cannot express my Thoughts, to heaven and you I owe So much, that I must still consess myself a Bankrupt. O thou Darling of “my Soul; forgive me if I have no more this gocdness to repay but Life and constant “Love.” He was So welcoipe to my Breast, Madam, that I could Say no more than. Oh my Od mar! What I wanted in Words I supply’d in Looks, and I dare Say the happy, amorous Youth ■ was pleas’d with all he Saw. i When we went into the Lodge I lock’d the Door behind me: “You See Odmarj (Said I) how much 
‘‘1 love. 
[ 45 ] 
« 
I love, and the good Opinion I have of you ‘‘ Madam, reply’d he, that is a Compliment I “know not how to answer; for I am afraid you ‘‘ would think me Saulty, is I Said, your Honour is Secure and you are sase •, becaiise to mention that, is to call my nobler Love in Question.’* “No, Odmar, cry’d I, I should be very unhappy is I could, even in Thought dispute the Innocence of your Love or mine; but I am for ry that, when I See you, I must be guilty of a Breach of promise. 
Ha! cry’d he, is Arifteon then So much an Enemy to my Love! It Seems, he doubts not “your Virtue, but my Treachery : But, Daria^ he is unjust to me; for, rather than wrong thee, 
I would forfeit Life, Estate, or anything ‘‘ yet dearer; nay, by Heaven, I would rather banish all my Hopes of being loved by thee, 
^ would never See thee more, and be for ever damned to absence from thee, my greatest Blessing. 
-- -- -- Yet, my Daria^ for thou art all Goodness, 
think of a Way to redress this mighty 111; Secure thyself, and ease thy Father of his Fears, and if thou lovest, tie thyself for ever mine. Oh Daria^ refuse me not that bliss I ask; our Parents Soon will be reconcil’d. I shall yet if possible, increase my Stock of Love, thou shalt be still fonder, and all who see us “shall confess us truly happy. 
Madam, I hope you whll own it was hard for a young Maid, who lov’d well, to keep a Medium between her Fears and Joys. His Fortune was, as I told you, infinitely beyond mine he, knew his Father would be incens’d, and might perhaps, from a kind Parent, become a cruel Enemy : All the World was sensible of his Merit, nor could he himsels be ignorant, that it was in 
his 
I 46 ] 
his Power to wed a greater Beauty and a larges Fortune. When these Refiedlions fled, my Sudden Cares took Place, and I already Saw him unfortunate and sorsaken by his Friends, because he was just to me. 1 Saw his Frowns in' Poverty and hourly Decay in Love, and methought 1 already heard the Poor, chang’d Odmar.^ whispering in my Ear, I had been great had I hut loved thee leys. This last Thought stay’d the hasty Flight of my fond, new fledg’d Soul, and it was not in my Power to answer what the Youth had utter’d. 
My unwonted Silence equally mov’d his Wonder and his Fear; when, throwing himself at my Feet, Daria, Said he, why do you use me thus? 
Oh remember it is Odmar Speaks; it is the “Man who loves you; one who can never be happy without you, and thinks the Gods have not a gist to bestow upon their first Favourite among Mortals, like that I ask olyou. 
Who can resist a kneeling Lover, Madam? I rais’d him in my Arms, and fondly, yet confus’d ly told him, “His Love and Honour made me wholly his, and I would be eternally rul’d by him. For now I gave my All into his Hands.” To tell you his Joy and the kind Words he utter’d, Would be to renew the sense of my Misfortunes. No Man ever Said more; no Woman ever believ’d more, or gave kinder yet more innocent Returns; and no two Lovers ever confided more in one another, or were happier than we. When we had Said ail we could, we unwillingly were filent, and gaz’d on each other, then began afresh, prais’d, lov’d, doted, sigh’d and languish’d. This happy Scene had banish’d all my Cares; 1 found my Odmar just, and Sought no other Blessing. 
At 
[ 47 ] 
At last my discreet Lover kindly told me, it was Midnight, conjured me to Sorgive him, because ssippery Time had run away when he had Seen his Thoughts imploy’d. I was heartily vex’d that I had manag’d lb ill. I Saw how inconvenient it was for Odmar to travel at Hours So unsea sonable, and yet knew mysels necessarily oblig’d to leave him. In this disorder of Thoughts I heard a noise in the Garden, and stealing Softly to the Window, could discern my Father with one or two Servants, inquiring earnestly of each other, if they had yet Seen me; I trembled when I heard my Name pronounc’d, and my Lover was almost mad with gries because he Saw me So. At last they came to the Door, where they knock’d aloud; and perceiving no answer, concluded I was in Some other Place, either ill with a Sudden Fit, or by Some other Accident unknown. 
My Father, to be better Satisfied, commanded them to break open the Door, because, perhaps, I might be there, yet fast afieep. But the Servants assuring him, that it was impossible, considering the noise they had made, he was at last diverted from his Resolution. My Lover, while this was acting, stood Sword in Hand ready to receive him; Swore, He had been once tamely robb’d of my, but“ “be So no more: That he would not at tempt arifieon^s lise, but would Secure my Peace, and carry me off in Spire of all hisfol lowers.” And 1 verily believe, had my Father enter’d, I should have trusted to odmaa's, gene rosity, and fled with him. As they went off, I heard Arijieon cry, Oh Heavens rejlore my Daughter., or take hack that wretched Life you gave me. these words wounded my very Soul; and I had almost cry’d out, Tour Daria is not lost. However, 
[ 48 ] 
tver, Seding his Search was to no purpose, he retir’d to his house, and there, with my weeping Mother, waited the Arrival of a new Day. 
Mean Time, it was So dark, that, being naturally timorous, 1 durst not traverse the Garden alone, nor could I take Odmar with me, lest I should meet Arifteon^ or slime of our Servants, by the Way. My Lover Saw my Troubles, knew they were upon his Account, and bore a more than equal Share. I stifled my Grief as best I could, that I might lessen his, and with a calm Brow, ask’d him. What was my best course? I bid him nt once consult my Honour and my Safety: and he, who never entertain’d a Thought against either, Said, He would be advis’d by me : But, ' if I rely’d on his Opinion or Judgement, I should ‘‘ stay in the Lodge all Night, that he would “stay by me, and guard me while I took my repose. In the Morning he would retire as « early as I pleas’d; that I could hardly Satisfy « Arijieon concerning my Conduct, if I should go “Home at that Hour of the Night. 
odmaps Voice was to me. Madam, nolessthan a very Oracle, and 1 knew him So good and just I scrupl’d not to grant him whatever he ask’d. My Silence shew’d I was resolv’d to stay; and the glad Youth Scarce knew how to thank me for my Goodness, and that Opinion I had of his, and Swore, He would not betray So much In ‘‘ nocence to gain the first Beauty under Heaven, « and the greatest Empire on Earth.” Having thus passed about two Flours, Odmar begg’d I would go to Bed; for there was always one in the Room in which my b’ather often lay, saying, ‘‘ Sleep was necessary for the Preservation of my Health, ‘‘ which was dearer to him than his own Life; 
‘‘ and 
/ 
X 
t 49 1 ■ 
and assur’d me, he would awake me before the “Sun arose. 
I was much concern’d at the Proposition, and, with Some Passion, ask’d him, “If he thought my Love had banish’d native Modesty? Or, ‘‘ if he had advis’d me to stay with a Design to at tempt my Honour? * The kind Youth fell on his Knees, and clasping mine. Swore by all the Gods, “He never mean’d me 111 •, darid.s Well“ “and that of his ov/n Soul were equally his Care, and if I denied him that Assurance of “• my love he begg’d, he would believe himself yet unhappy, after all I had done for him. Why, Daria \ ( added he) is Odmar a com mon Lover? Is he not thy Husband? Let me hope our Hearts are united, and, sure, a few trifling Ceremonies Serve not to corifirm the Tie before Heaven, but with others of our fel low creatures, whose unbounded Passions must be limited and restrain’d by Laws. To the Virtuous and Good no Force is needful; and I shall be just to thee, as I would expect mer cy from the Powers in Heaven, when my last Hour approaches. 
O, Madam, it is neediest to Say any more, I lov’d even to Distradion, nor did he merit lest. 1 yielded, and hid my Blushes in his Breast, he was blefs’d, nor could I think myself unhappy : That sleep he had at first proposed was to both deny’d, nay, was not wish’d or look’d for; we consum d the Hours in each other’s Arms, and Jove stood wishing, as he view’d our Joys. 
When the conscious Day appeared, and lovely Odmar rose, what Agonies did my poor Soul know: He embrac’d me tenderly, but without one kind Word leap’d from the disorder’d Bed. I already feared I had shown too much of Fonde 
nest. 
liest, and that the Joys of that Night had cloy’d the Appetite of his transported Soul. When he was dress’d, he came again to the bed’s Side, took mein his Arms, sigh’d, and ask’d me, when he should be bless’d again? With Tears in my Eyes I told him, I tvas his; and that now my Happiness depended upon Ms Pleasure. lo morrow*s Aight then (Said he) let me find my Daria here doubt not my Love or Honour. Again he kiss’d me, and So quitted the Room. Oh I Madam, if you knew those ■ Cares which oppress’d me when he was gone! 1 remember’d how eloquent he had been before I yielded, and now Saw he had Scarce one kind Word to Spare. His Sighs increas’d tny Fears, and I had nothing to comfort me in this new Afflidiion, but that last kiss he gave me, which, notwithstanding his Silence, me thought did yet • express a constant, tender Flame. 
When I open’d the Door, I trac’d his Footsteps on the Dew, and almost sunk with the fresh Remembrance of what had beentransadled. ‘‘ Go^odmar., cry’di, go; and, if thou art not “So honourable as I have judg’d thee, I know how to be reveng’d; my Death shall atone ‘ “for my Guilt, and thou shalt mourn the loss of her who lov’d thee.” As I Spoke, I cast my Eyes that Way the Youth had gone, and Sav my Father coming. I trembled So much as he approach’d, that my Fears indeed were enough to betray the Secret. 
“Ha! Daria (cry’d he) is this the Reward “of a father’s Care? Have I lov’d you to be “the more easily betray’d by you, and is your “Virtue and Honour fied beyond Redemption! ‘‘ My Passion is not Master of my Judgement; and I forbear to use you as I ought to do, tho’ I 
‘e havf* 
i 
HO 
hare trac’d the Salle Odmar, and Saw him on ‘ ^ the other Side of the River: But take this for my “positive Resolution, never See me more: Since you obey’d not the Instrudion of a kind fa thef, I shall nay, I have forgot that ever I had a Daughter.” I had pass’d the Night in pleasure, and the Morning in Tears, So' that t had not Time to feign a Story to divert his Anger. I threw myself therefore at his Feet, sunk with Grief and could hardly bid him think I yet was virtuous. 
Yes, yes, Daria (reply*d he) you are vir ‘‘ tuolis! I can read in your Eyes no Signs of last “night’s Revels! But come, (continu’d he, and “taking me by the Hand) let’s See the Scene ‘‘• where the Dishonour of my house was acted.” When he came to the Bed, Oh, Madam, I blush to telj, that the Marks of Virgin Loves confess’d that weakness which I strove to hide. My Father was thunder struck with what he Saw, and running out of the Room, I could hear him at Some Distance, cry, O! my lost Daria. 
I am Sure, Madam, you will consess, it is impossible to paint that Anguish which I then endured. I fell into a Swoon upon the Bed, and there lay Some Hours before 1 recover’d my stray’d senses. When my Judgement returned, I underwent a new Return of all my Pains, 1 was ready to end all my Griefs by one dire Blow, and I am firmly persuaded, if any Instrument of Death had been nigh, I had not now liv’d to mourn the loss of Odmar. 
However, amidst all my Sorrows, I recolledled that Appointment he had made for the Succeeding Night; and, tho’ I doubted much his Constancy, I resolv’d to wait the Event. ’till that Time should come, I knew not whither to betake 
E 2 mvselfs. 
\ \ 
ish 
myself; I could not fly to a friend’s house, be cause then my Shame would be notorious, yet durst not venture to show myself at Home, as Arifieon had Sworn he never more would own me: Atid, besore I could come to a Resolution, my afflicted Mother enter’d the Lodge. 
“Well, Daria^ Said she, I come not to re proach you with a Crime, which cannot now be “mended, - but to tell you, that no Arguments “can yet reconcile you to your Father. He de nies your Admittance to his house. This in discreet Love of your’s, has Sown that Reproach “upon our Family, (for can you think Odmar ‘‘ will wed a Fortune So mean as your’s?) which no Time shall be able to root out. In a Word, your Father is mad with Grief, and you may guess at mine. However, come along with me, “and stay in your Chamber without his knowledge;; my Tears may yet persuade him to “forgive this Fault of Love and Youth. 
I was not able to make any Answer to this tenderness of my mother’s : Grief was too visible in my Face, and fufflciently pleaded my excuse. I obey’d then, and when I was left alone in the Room, in a few Minutes my Condition was the Same it had been, a little before my Mother had come to me; and when the Troubles of my Mind again allow’d me the Use of my Faculties, I read my odmaas Letters over and over, but found not in them half that Pleasure I had known before. At Night my Mother came again to See me; she told me, my father’s Sorrow was nothing yet abated, that he was resolv’d not to lose diops Friendship; bid me make use of my reason, and shun immoderate Grief, and So left me to myself. I pass’d the Night without Sleep, and the next Morning yet augmented my Fears, for now 
[ 53 ] 
the Hour approach’d, in which I was again to See my Odmarf from whom alone I hop’d and wish’d relies. To be short, Madam, N ight at last arriv’d, but not my Lover. How I long’d and waited for him in that Lodge, where I had been once So happy, no Tongue can utter : I stray’d there all Night, and, tho’ in the Dark and alone, void of my wonted Fears, and did only weep my own Folly, and my unkind odmar’^s Absence. 
In the Morning I found a Paper lyirig upon the Bed, I knew it to be od?nar% and wonder’d that my Father had not Seen it the. Day before you must know. Madam ffor So I understood afterwards) it was written originally by a Friend of his, to whom I have since that Time been much indebted. Having open’d it with Impatiency, I found these Words : 
accurd^d he those who Marriage Vowi began / Twas a mere Prick to bubble easy Man. 
A holy Cheaty a promised Heaven never sounds Cozens the Praveller like enchanted Ground; 
Which when he seeks to tread he never can find. Flies quick away, and leaves no Marks behind. Some doting Coxcomb may with Pleasure wed. And with some lovely Female Share his Bed; 
Who'll sigh and clasp him in her treacherous Arms. And feed his leacpry with a thousand Charms % Weep when he's sick, and feign a real Grief Offer her Blood, nay. Soul, for his Relief. 
Phe jiupid Afs believes, and mourning lies, 
j/iews the dear Jilt, with Sorrow in his Eyes, ^ Gives her a Jointure, and a Cully dies: 3 
While Jhe, Poor Phing, to ease her anxious Breajf^ Per he's half cold, admits an abler Gueji. 
£3 His 
$ « 
[5+1 
Jlis Irawn^ foot man*s Mazier of the Spoilj And fiuims in Gold he gains with Midnight pul. She Roman Knight hy all was praifd^ when he y jpefpifd a Gulf, to let Ms Country see > 
He'd plunge himjelf to fet his Neighbours free. 2 To me no Love like that Shall ever he known. 
I'll know no other Ini'refi hut my own. 
Fond Maids may think I'll wed; but I'll enjoy., T Promise and never perform ftnce,, for a Foi, > None hut a Fool would's Liberty dejiroy. 3 
When Heaven would punish Sins, and Anger show,, two Beggars, and it leaves them so. 
Each cries for Help, vehich neither can afford, n ■ Phis blames his Wife, and that her needy Lord, > 
While Sif loyn, jhunmngnoije, forsakes the Board. 3 Some yielding Nymph -- -- -^ -- 
f 
You See, by this broken Line, Madam, the Piece 
was not perfected; however, there was enough to excite my Grief and Wonder, I was now Sully persiiaded Odmar was unjust, and even when I believ’d him So, wonder’d that a Man, who look’d So like Some Angel, could in his Nature be the worst of Villains. I knew he was a Poet for his own pleasure, and found, by what I had read, he had Spoke his Sentiments, not half his Art or Wit. I Saw my Fortune painted in each Line, and now (tho’ ne’er before) I wish’d I had not known him. I found my Ruin inevitable; for since Odmar was unkind, I had no more to lose. I had too convincing a Proof of my Ill fortune, when I resteisted how he had written to me in the Morning, when he was to see me that Night, and could not reasonably have expected a Letter from him;. and that now, when he had given me the jpisippointment he had not been at the Pains ta fxcuse himself, or Say that yet he lov’d me. 
'This. 
t 
, > I 
* 
I 
I 55 1 
This, Madam, is a tedious Way of telling the Story of my Love. But I can do no leis than acquaint you with my Griefs, because the Remembrance of these Things fill my Soul, and yet deny a Room to any other Thought. To be short, then as possibly I can, I resolv’d Speedily to abandon, the World, and retire to a Nunnery, a few Miles distant from odmar^s father’shoufe. I had there two young Cousins, whom Love had made reclases, and 1 determin’d to Spend my Days like them. I went privately to my Chamber, and took from thence everything of Value and of Small Bulk, read over my lover’s kind Letters, and afterwards committed them to the Flames. With my Eyes took a long Farewell of the Place of my Nativity, and, drown’d in Tears, I took my Leave of it. 
I had not walk’d far, when my Grief and Trouble made me know I was too weak for a Foot journey of five long Miles. half faint beneath a shady Tree I lay, and view’d the watchful Shepherds driving out their Flocks, and wantoning even in Rags. I compar’d their Condition with mine, and often wish’d I had been born, like them, to moderatewants, or to Some humbler Fortune, bless’d with Peace and Innocence. I mourn’d all my Misfortunes at oncei but most of all I griev’d the loss of Odmarh Letters; for I found, even then, when I suffer’d So much for him, it was not in my Power to hate him. 
While thus I lay, I could See, at Some Distance, two Men on horseback. It was yet So very early in the Morning I could hardly suppose them less than Robbers. My Fears Suggested a thousand Things to me. I forgot not that I was a Woman, helpless and alone; and yet. Madam, by that great Power I Swear by, who gave me 
E A. ssi'st 
[ 56 ] 
first a Being, I wish’d them Murderers, ravish ers, or worse, if possible. lise was become a persecst Burden to me, and I was resolv’d Some Way or other to be reliev’d from the Weight. ivs they approach’d, I advanc’d into the Road, and expos’d, as if I did it by Chance, all Things of Value about me, to tempt the vicious Wretches, and thought then, by Resistance, to prompt them on to Fury. This Conduct, I confess, was a greater Crime than any I had yet committed; shut your Grace will confider that despair has no Acquaintance with reason, and I did it with a Settled Dessgn to complete my Ruin. 
When they came close up to me. Oh Heavens! what Art can express my Surprise; for I had almost fainted with Excess of Joy, in the .Depth of my Misery, and sunk beneath myself, my kind, just Odmar came to raise me up. 
« Ah I Dal ’D, cry’d he, alighting from his Horse, Whither art thou going? Why do I read in thy Face So many Signs of Sorrow? Didst thou sufped me? Oh! by Heavens! I am raving mad with Joy! for whatever has brought thy Tears, I find thy Grief adds Phil“ “to thy Beauties.” When I could speak, 1 cry’d, Oh Odmar., do I owe this Felicity to Chance, or You?” No, reply’d he. hashly, to yourself only; If you had been less fair, or less kind, I had been less constant i and now I know you truly love me, we shall both be happy.' But I have nothing, rhy Dear, con tinu’d he, * to repay that Joy you give me, a, 
I faithshl Heart excepted, which Heaven dessgn’d 
but for itielf and you. Know that I have in“ “my Father of the Love I bear you 5 I But he alas! though otherwiie kind, is inexorable, 
I II and Iwears, if I perfist, he will never she me ¥ ' more. 
[ 57 ] 
more. The Hopes nevertheless of obtaining “his consent with held me from my Daria. “Yesterday, but could not do So to day.’* Ah Odmar! cry’d I, the Gods were passive, and “you might have come. But I am ruin’d; my ^ Father has banish’d me from his Ho use, and > 
“our stolen Happiness is -- -- -- No, Said he, in 
(interrupting me, and with all the tenderness imaginable) if my Love can repay the loss of ‘‘ arijteops Smiles, my Daria is not ruin’d. Here, continu’d he, and turning to his Friend, this is my Wife: You can confirm our Vows al“ “rnade, and, as you tender my Life, com ply.” To be brief. Madam, Odmar was singular in his Love and Virtues. We were that Day marry’d (for his Friend was a Priest, whom < the kind Youth had brought on Purpose) blefs’d with safe Possession, and both Exiles, because we lov’d too well. 
We retir’d to the house of a Gentleman, who Was Odmaf% Relation and mine too. He wrote often to his Father; but the Churl was deaf to all Entreaties. Mine would not lose diet’s Friendship, tho’ he pardon’d me in his Heart; and my Mother alone was kind to us both, and Sent me frequent Letters in Return of mine. We went Seldom Abroad, we were welcome to our kind Friend, we lov’d more passionately than ever, and Scarce one Night pass’d without a Recital of our first night’s Joys, our mutual Fears which follow’d, his Longings, my Pains, and those Thoughts we entertain’d for one another, when first old di on languish’d at our house. Thus, Madam, we liv’d two Years, and I can confidently affirm, that to the last Hour, we had those little Cares to please, true Love, and constant fondness for each Other, we knew that Night I yielded in the Lodge. 
[58] 
At last, this happy Scene vanish’d, and, though the Story grates my Soul, and awakes my numbering griess, yet. Madam, for your satissadlion, take it thus. 
Our King, the good Othredus^ unfortunate sh his Councils, tho’ of himself just and merciful even to a Fault, was finally by Knaves betray and by his Friends abandon’d. In this Extremity he fled, and, Seeking Protection from a Neighbouring Monarch, left the Government to the Management of others Scarronida was So fond of their new Government, that he was judg’d a Tray tor to his Country who entertain’d but favourable Thoughts for his native injur’d Lord. The Eastern Part of the Nation, nevertheless, betook 
them Selves to Arms; and, though they were but a Handful of Men, the Number of their Enemies confider’d, boldly held the Field, and bid Defiance to the new crown’d Sovereign. 
Dian was one in this loyal Army, and finding he was incapable of induring those Fatigues inherent to his Post, he Sent at last for Odmar. My Father fought as she did, and whether or not he persuaded old Dion to reassume his good Nature upon this occasion, I cannot possibly affirm. My kind Husband shew’d me the Letter he had receiv’d, and ask’d my Advice concerning that answer he design’d, when, at the same Time, he knew I had for his Judgement that respedl which fond little Children bear to that of a tender Mother. In a Word, tho’ the old Man had freely pardon’d him, yet he would not obey, ’till first he had secur’d his Daria^ and therefore let him know, That, tho’ he was kind, yet his Son was still unsortiinate, unless he was doubly So to me; and, as a Mark of his unfeign’d re conciliation. Settled one half of his Estate on me, 
ct : r 
[ 59 ]. 
if it was my Fortune to Survive So good a Husband.” 
Dion readily agreed to this, and assur’d him, he deserv’d more than he had to bestow upon him, since his Constancy to me Sufficiently excus’d his primitive disobedience upon the Score of Love. I firmly believe our hospitable Friend Pameran, for that was his Name, alone griev’d our better Fortune. He was a Bachelor, not young, and a real Hater of Women, and the Author of those Lines which Odinar had copied, and accidentally drop’d in the Lodge, yet he confess’d, that, in Spite of his Humour, he found a certain pleasure, when he Saw our mutual Fondness and happy Way of living, and often Swore, if he could find a Woman like me, and himself could love like Odmar^ he would no longer be averse to Marriage. When we came to diops House, we were receiv’d with all that respedt and Assurance of his Affection we could desire, and Arifteon fail’d not to weep for Joy to See his Daughter happy. 
It never was my Chance to be every Way felicitous, and odmar^s absence lessen’d or quite remov’d the sense of my present good Fortune. The loyal Army lay but a few Miles from fhop& house j So that I heard from him every Day, and by the Gods I Swear, Madam, I read the Letters with the Same Joy 1 knew when faithful Riga gave me that one I mentiond under a Pretence of Seeking Papers which he had not lost. Heaven never beheld two Such Lovers and when the new king’s Army came into the bosom of our Country, I suffer’d a thousand deadly Fears for the constant Sharer of my Joys. 
In a few Days they came to a pitch’d Battle, where the General of the old king’s Forces lost his Life, tho’ he gain’d the Victory. He conquer’d, and Death overcame the Conqueror. Oi 
ft 
[6o] 
mar stew to my Arms, the Danger I once fear’d was now blown over, and Security made us doubly bless’d. He stay’d a Month, which as a Single Hour appear’d, and the new King, having mustered Sresh Troops, he lest me to Seek new Hazards. The Armies again met, but Fortune had fled with the General, and we, if I may properly Say I was on Odmafs Side, lost the Day, and all that Honour we had gain’d before. My Husband however was Safe, and I ask’d no more. Our remaining Troops were by Degrees cut off, and, in a short Time, no Man appear’d in Arms but Lion and his Followers. Unable to keep the Field, he retir’d to a little Town, which yet own’d no Power Superior to his own. This he fortisy’d and stor’d with Provisions, Such as the harrass’d Country could afford. In the mean Time, the Successful Monarch, wearied with the Civil War, and willing to Secure with Seeming Mercy what with Blood he had purchas’d, offer’d to every Man who would lay down his Arms the Benefit of a Kariph, which you call an ast of Indemnity. Dion., who wisely Saw he could be no longer Serviceable to his Prince by obstinate Refinance, laid hold of this Opportunity, and made fiis Peace with Honour. In fiiort, our Gates were 
A 
open’d, we rely’d upon the conqueror’s promise, admitted his Troops, and made them bosom friends. 
Now it was, I thought myself beyond the Reach of fortune’s Frowns, and almost elevated above the Power of Fate. Dion and Arifieon found themselves f>lss’d beyond whatever they hop’d, and never law us without Joy and Wonder. Oh Heavens! how innocently we liv’d, and lov’d as when first we Swore we did So. Poor Odmar thought of nothing but and I never 
dream’d 
\ 
\ 
[ 6i ] 
drcam’d of anything but him. We descry’d new Beauties in one another every Day, long’d and wish’d like Bride and Bridegroom, gaz’d, embrac’d, and knew no Pains, but when, in each other’s Arms, we figh’d and sear’d we had not 
lov’d alike. -- -- -- Now, Madam, pardon my 
Tears, for when I have told you all, you will own my Griefs are just. 
One Night, as awake I lay, I heard my oj umr groaning in his Sleep. It was the first Time he ever had done So, and I was much amaz’d; but more, when Suddenly railing himself up, he cry’d. Oh pare mj daria’r, I will give you mine, Ha! my Dear, cry’d I, whither does your fan cy wander? Why thus afraid when there is no Danger nigh ?” rouz’d from his Sleep, he caught me in his Arms, kifs’d me with Transport, figh’d, and fain would fieep again, had not I press’d his Hand in mine, and conjur’d him to tell me why he had pronounc’d my Name in dreaming. 
‘‘ Ah! Daria^ Said he, I can yet hardly think I have thee in my Arms, So much I fear’d thee lost. I stream’d, and oh! methinks it was a very lively Dream, that Tameran, our kind Friend, who entertain’d us when unfortunate, ‘‘ pull’d aside the Curtain, and with Looks which Spoke him fill’d with dire Revenge, threaten’d thy Life and mine, for Crimes he fear’d I had done, but would not reveal.” “You take me for a Friend, Said he, but you shall find a Roe, where least you thought of one; I trust not the Man who once offends, for, tho’ he begs my Pardon afterwards, yet I consider that as the esse<5t of my Power and his Necessity, “not Love or real Friendship.” ‘‘ This Said, methought he struck his Dagger to my Heart, 
‘ \ 
[ 62 ] 
and Swore you too should bleed: It was that“ “Dear, continu’d he, which broke the Chain ‘‘ of Sleep, and Set my Tongue at Liberty. 
When Odmar Spoke, I endur’d 'the Same Pain as is it had not been a Dream; but that which Sunk me most, was, that this Same Night I had Seen old Dion expiring on his Bed, and ghastly in his Wounds. To increase my Fears, my Windows stood all open, and between me and the Skies I Saw the Heads and Limbs of murder’d Friends, heard, the Shrieks of tortur’d Souls which wander’d in the Air, and howling Ghosts to showy Shrouds confin’d. I shrunk, and grasp’d my Odmar in my Arms, and would, before I Spoke, view .the Sad Scene again: But as I was about to relate my Fears to my dear Companion, I heard a dreadful noise upon the Stairs. The Chamber door was immediately forc’d open, and Russians, mask’d in Armour, straight rush’d in: My Fears would not let me cry out: But the more daring Odmar leap’d from the Bed, and with his Sword receiv’d them. Oh Heavens! this brave, dear young Man did all a Mortal could, but, cover’d, all over with Wounds, at length he fell. Oh hase Villains I Oh Daria! Daria! he cry’d, and in that Moment dy’d. The senseless Clay suffer’d their utmost Fury, and they stabb’d Odmar^ after od mar was no more. I Saw it. Madam, and oh! that I liv’d to see So much, yet found that it was not in my Power to Speak, for my Soul, affrighted with the horrid Sight, retir’d and left me destitute of Sense. This alone sav’d my Life; for when the cruel Murderers Saw me motionless on the Floor, and drench’d in my hushand’s Blood, they believ’d me dead; So they forsook the Room. 
When I recover’d my Soul half fled, I knew not vrhat to think, I was in a perfect frensy, 
and 
> • 
/ 
[63] 
and would have thought all a Dream stilly if I had not Sound the wounded Body by me, nay, even then 1 Scarce could think myself awake; for when I examin’d my pass’d Life, in all my Search I Saw not one massy Sin which could have pull’d this cruel Stroke from Heaven, nor could I think that the just Gods had us’d me So, when I had study’d never to offend. The bloody Executioners had carry d their dark Lanthorns with them, and I, to be convinc’d of my own unhap piness, undrefs’d as I was, ran into the next Room to tell old Dion that his Son was lost, and I myself distradled; for. Madam, I must confess I really was So. Oh! what Words or Art can paint my Woes, and the Horrors of that inauspicious Night! The Father was murder’d before the Son was cold, and apifieon shar’d in odmaps Fate, he and my Mother were both butcher’d, and, if So Heaven had pleas’d, would Daria too had died, for not one of dloes Relations efcap’d but myself. 
You may wonder. Madam, that any Man was found to execute so barbarous a Commission: 
A 
For you must know, tho’ it is very strange, the new Statesmen, fearing, that if the exil’d Prince should at any Time attempt the Recovery of his Rights, Dion would prove a dangerous Subject, they thought it fitting, by this inhuman Method, to prevent that Evil they fear’d. My just Griefs robb’d me of the use of my reason, and it was my Fortune not to feel the Weight of my own unhappy Fate; for oh! Madam, I had lost the best of Men : But during the Time of my short Intervals, a neighbouring old Gentlewoman of my mother’s Acquaintance took particular Care of me, and after fifteen tedious Months I was again my Seif, But, tho’ bless’d with my reason, 
I was 
t 
[ 64 ]. 
1 was still oppress’d with griesj and theresore, without acquainting any one, nay my benesadtress herself was a Stranger to it, I quitted the Scene where all my Ills were acsted, and came in Tears to Armenh. My Fortune preserr’d me to your grace’s Esteem, to whom I confess I am more indebted than all my coming Services can ever repay. IHAVE told you a Story I had long conceal’d, and. Madam, you may believe that the brave Odmar's Relict would not So far betray her Honour, as to conceal any Part of the Tmth^ or add a Tittle which was not really So. 
Here, my Alblftnda^ the lovely unsortunate Daria ended her Story, and the tenderhearted 
dutchess shed Tears for odmar*s Fate; crav’d 
% 
Pardon if she had not us’d her consorm to her Quality and Merit, and assur’d her, that, for the future, she would make it her study to teach her to forget her Misfortunes. eripmle was always good, and she was at this Time so much concern’d for the loss of so kind a Man, that she told Darias she could dwell eternally upon the Story, and there Settle her Thoughts, if the Sad Remembrance and frequent Repetition did not renew the Tears of one who had so just cause to mourn. 
As she Spoke, Ertnthus enter’d. The dutchels receiv’d the fortunate Youth with all the Tenderness of a conquer’d Beauty, told him, the Duke was gone to Court, and kind Love had allotted the few Minutes of his Absence for the hap piness of both. 
Poor Daria blush’d and withdrew, and the Lovers, ’ now left to themselves, let loose their Wishes, and Surfeited in Pleasure. But as they 
lay in each other’s Arms, their Souk upon the 
Wine, 
r ^. 
Wing, and fear’d, by coveting too Sast, defirc should be lost, the injur’d Duke arriv’d. 
Pardon me, Albijinda^ is I omit not the Particulars of this Adventure. Their mutual Joys had banish’d usual Dread, and he knock’d at the Chamber door besore they thought him nigh. Erin -- thus nimbly started from the Bed, and, Sensible of his own Danger, and the Crime he had committed, half dress’d, leap’d from the Chamber' Window into the Garden; and, with the Hazard of his Neck, made his Estape. Entheon Saw him, and, in a Height of Sudden Passion, fir’d a Pistol after him, but without the wish’d success. It is easy to guess in what a Posture he found the lovely dutchess, half dead with Bear and unable to hide what even, to Entheon.^ she should have never expos’d, tho’ in her State of Innocence: besides, to evince her Guilt, and that she had been actually happy in another’s Arms, the lucky Youth, when from the Bed he leap’d, had left the usual Marks of Love behind him.' This indeed the Duke had not the Misfortune to See, for one of the Maids, who was privy to the Amour, enter’d the Chamber with him, and hid the base Remains of interrupted Love. 
Eriphile at once blush’d and weep’d. She Saw it was imposhble to deny what had pafs’d between her and Erinthus., and did not So much as offer ' to extenuate the Crime. Entheon knew his Honour betray’d, his constant Love repay’d with Treachery, and griev’d that ever he went to c/ falvs house. Then again remembering her Blushes, when first he Saw her in the Garden, her Love, which at that Time was real, and all those tender Words she utter’d in his Arms, since she became a Wife, he grew almost mad, and the Thoughts cf losing So much sweetness rack’d his very 
F Soul: 
$ 
[66] 
Soul: Again he eym the weeping Fair, and again storm’d and griev’d. He curs’d the Hour which brought Erin thus to his house, and Saw, that if he reveng’d this great Affront, he could gain no Honour by it, the Quality of the Offender consider’d. besides, eftphile was always dear to him, and now (tho’ false to the last Degree) as lovely as ever she had been. The powerful Charms of a weeping Beauty can never be truly painted. To have Seen the dutchess at this Jundlure, was to be eternally her’s; and when she look’d upon her injur’d Lord, she shew’d [a certain Softnels of Force enough to instave t once the Judgement and the Soul, 
4 • 
. You inay believe then, Alhiftnda^ the generous Entheon' was not insenfible when he beheld her. He Sat Some Space Speechlels, and thinking on his loss; then. Suddenly starting up, he threw himself upon the Bed, took her in his Arms, and kiss’d away her Fears, Ah, Eriphile^ cry’d he, how I lov’d you. Heaven and you can tell! “How my Love and Constancy have been re warded, I am asham’d to Speak! But oh! why Ennthus is preferr’d to Entheon^ you alone can Say! Was your Honour, now inseparably tied to mine, a Trifle, and Marriage vows a Whim of “Priesthood? No, no, eri^ile.^ the World will take Notice of the first, and Heaven, I fear, cair Scarce neglect the latterj But I, by all is good, forgive you. Let not my Disgrace and your weakness be the table discourfe of a whole Nation: Let what is pass’d be hush’d up in eternal Silence, and for the future to Entheon ** and to yourself be just. 
Sure, Albijinda, you will confess it was a, double Sin to offend So good a Husband. The tender eri^hik for that Time was truly Sensible of 
r 1 
this, and, drown’d in Tears, tho’ yret in Bed, •threw herself upon her Knees,, grasp’d entheops Hand, and weeping Swore by all the Powers a above, and by that just Heaven she had too much offended, “She griev’d what she had done and for the Suture would prove hersels the most ^ obedient humble Wise yet was knovm: add ing, his excess of goodness and Generosity increas’d the Weight of her Guilt; that she Saw, “with unspeakable Sorrow, how far she had err’d, ‘‘ and assur’d him, that no Temptation should ‘‘ ever again persuade her to forget how much ** she ow’d to Entheon or herself. 
The kind Duke forgave her all, rais’d her up, took her again to his Arms, and told her; He griev’d nothing more, than that Erinthus., proud of So great a Conquest, might betray the southeast cret; to prevent which, it was sitting he should bleed, for the Security of her’s and his own Honour.” The lovely Eriphile., tho’ she then truly repented the Wrong she had done her deserving Lord, yet found too Soon she had not wholly banish’d the Lover from her Breast. She cy’d the Duke with Concern, and reading in his Face the Signs of close Revenge, she fell a Second Time upon her Knees, - conjur’d him to believe, that she was heartily sensible of that Fault she ^ had committed, but could not think the Death ^ of Erinthus the most proper Method to Secure his Honour; begg’d, as he tender’d her Life, 
‘‘ he would lay aside that Thought, and, as he had already promis’d, pardon all that was done. The good Duke could deny her nothing; and Sure, Albiftnda.^ his eafiness that Way was very pardonable; for had she stood before that Surly old Cynic Diogenes., he would not have us’d her with that Freedom he express’d to the world’s great 
F 2 Con 
[68] 
Conqueror; he would willingly have quitted his, Book, and gaz’d upon her, or at least have Sought no other Light but what her Eyes could give. Oh, Alhifinda! Some People maty blame him for excess of Good nature, upon this and other Emergencies which concern’d Eriphile. But then, believe me, their Hearts are of a different Mould 
^ i ■ 4 ^ 
from that of this Nobleman, and they never Saw, Eriphiley or were capable of any tenderness, who think they could have resented the 111 she had done; especially when she kneel’d and begg’d forgiveness. In a Worcl, my Alhifinda^ the ge' 
'Entheon granted everything; she pro • mis’d anything, he believ’d all, she seem’d sensible of all, and both were happy in a new Agreement. 
I am afraid, Alhifinda (for I frankly confess my Want of Art, or Power to move the Pashons> that by this Time you wish my Letter finish’d. But the Story affords no great Number of Adventures, and that of Daria^ hatving wasted more than half my Time, you will find me generous, in Spite of myself, because necessarily oblig’d to relieve you from the Trouble. I shall then, dear Madam (like Some of our famous Teachers only beg one minute’s Patienco* and venture to take two. 
The Duke, tho’ he had lov’d much, and be; liev’d much, yet could not chuse but fear morcv I He remember’d that ekiplnle was a Woman; 
I that epinthus was young and handsome; that he was new, and already in Possession of her Favours. 
these Considerations taught him to observe her; Conduct narrowly; he consulted her very Looks j auel, tho’ his Judgement always master’d his pas i fions, yet Sometimes he could not chuse but think, ie read his own Dishonour painted in her Eyes. 
1 ^ ‘ ■ ■ ■ ■........... Ost 
, 1 • » 
■1 
1 
/ 
[6^] 
Oh the other Hand, our diitchess fear’d to of send, because she could not reasonably expecst t<j find him always merciful. Erinthus grieved the loss of his Earthly Heaven, but more eripmlf% Cares, and knew not that the Duke had fign’d her Pardon, and seal’d it with his Love. Unwilling nevertheless to forego that happiness he had enjoy’d, by the Help of powerful Gold, he convey’d the following Billet to the longing dutchess: 
Madam, 
# 
iknow not ho'ix) to ’wrile^ or how to express tnj thoughts. I mnignorant upon what Perms you Jtand with the Duke, and arngrievoujly oppreffd with ' Sorrow for what happensd. I atn fafei huf ifen^ phile loijes not more unfortunate than if that buv let, deftgpd for fhy Kuin, had lodged within my Heart. From all my Pains I rely upon you for Ease.. till I fe you. Madam, believe me. 
Your langushing 
Erinthus* 
t 
Her Grace (tiro ohce half fesolv’d tb forget 
him) was overjoy’d to know him Safe; and, III Spite of all her Resolutions, found she lov’d hini niore than evbr. When she retir’d to her Clofetj to consiilt her Judgrrient what to do, before she Was aware, she wrote him this answer; 
Erinthus, 
* '' ' 
D Anger adds to Pleasure', and Fears indear the 
Blejfng when enjoyed. Meet me in your Chariot po morrow^s Slight, precisely at Eight, mar the kin^s walk, beyond the Gardeht 
Er I PHIL 2, ’ 
V ^ tthe 
[ 7° 1 
The amorous and too happy Lover receiv’^d if, and determin’d not to disobey. When the Hour came, he appear’d upon the Place .with all the Longings of a Bridegroom. As yet he Saw not one Woman there, and was almost assur’d of a Disappointment, when a lovely Youth approach’d his Chariot. Erinthm believ’d him Sent from the dutchess, and bid the Coachman stop; and you may think him happily surpris’d, when he found the handsome Youth was no other than her Grace f Entheon. The Duke shortly after, by Chance, drove the.. Same Way, and as he pass’d Eriphile gave him a low Bpw, as other Strangers did. You may assure yourself they stay’d not long in the Walk; there were greater Sweets to be found in a Bedchamber than in the open Fields, and they forgot all those Hazards they had lately escap’d. At Ten they parted, and the dutchess got Home with all that ease and Security she desir’d. Her two faithful Maids stood at the Gate to receiver her; and, as she' enter’d, they insorm’d her, “That their Lord was at Home; that he had inquir’d after her, but that they had told him she vas indispos’d, and begg’d his grace’s Excuse.” Had Fortune continu’d this kindness all had been well. But, Albtfinda^ you must own it was hard, that, before she had well enter’d her Rooin, and began to undress, the impatient Duke knock’d at her Door. eriphue, with a Voice Seemingly saint, ask’d^ who it was? and Icnowing too Soon that it was the Duke, you may easily think she was startled with the sudden Apprehension of her Danger. But, not so confus’d as t heglefi: her own Safety, she told his Grace, She was so very ill, she could not yet come to the Door without Difficulty.” Entheon^ who ibv’d her t Distradlion, fear’d that her Ailing 
i 7^1 
• t • « ^ 
itiight indeed be dangerous; and, unable to live one Minute from her Sight, gently forced it open, and found her in the same dress in which she had blefs’d her Lover; her Wig and Sword lay obvious on the Table, and not one Sign of indis position appear’d. 
The Great Etitheon became dumb with Sorrow, and the charriiihg Eriphile knew not what to Say for herself. At lash the Duke brake Silence, and calmly, but with Trouble, told her, “That, if she was not really Sick, she ought to have been So, Seeing his Honour had again been stabb’d^ and her’s was truly dead.” This generous Man, Albifmday Said no more; he lov d her even yet, and grieved her weakness; He ey’d her a while, and, in Spite of all his Courage, his Heart melted. But, willing to hide his softness, he feign’d another Paffioh; shew’d Anger in his Looks, and yet in Tears withdrew. 
"Vyhen he was gone, Eriphile threw herself upon the Bed, larnented her owrt Misfortune, and wished she could yet be Sensible of Entheod.% Merit; and whenj with Pain she view’d him noble, as wheri first he Saw her, Erinthus leap’d between her and the lovely Form, and she could think of nothing else but him. Mean Tiny, the Duke Sent for the Earl of Cifala, and acquainted him vrith all that had pass*d Since that Night she and Fidelia went to the playhouse. The good od Earl was infinitely surpriz’d with What he heard, aiid thank’d him for that Moderation he'iiad'shewh, in a Cafe, wherein So many Provocations were given; and told him, “That eriphilfs Education had never taught her to dishonour his houseand again thank’d him for not exposmg to the World the. j^isgrace of his Seduced Daughter. 
V 
/ 
[72] 
eripmle yet lay upon the Bed, and was perfectly mad with Grief, when she Saw her Husband 
and her Father enter. She was too in that Dress 
* 
which betrayed the Secret; and, weeping as she xose to receive them, “Ah! my Lord, cry’d she ‘‘ to Cifala^ I own my Guilt; load me not with Reproaches, but rob me of my Life, for I deserve not to live. Since I have dishonour’d you, 
“and wrong’d So good a Husband. Oh Entheon! continu’d she, I cannot ask forgiveness, you have been too kind, and I too ungrateful; yet, 
“before I die let me receive your Pardon. 
. Whether she truly repented or not, Abifinda, is not to be doubted; for she never Saw Entheon., without really loving him. But when he and dn/i 
thics were both absent, her Heart inclin’d to the latter, and own’d him much the happier Favourite. But, Madam, why should I detain you longer upon this Adventure, Since I have already promis’d a Speedy conclusion. In a Word then", the Duke lov’d too well, and she was too charra. ing. Her new dress gave her a thousand Graces, expos’d the Tendeinefs and Delicacy of her Shape, and shew’d So much of softness in her Air, that the Sight of her was enough to have charm’d the most insensible of humankind; for, even when in the Grove she lay, and shew’d by Chance what else had been conceal’d, her Limbs appeared not to the vanquish’d Youth with half those B eauties which he now discover’d. Cifala too interceded for her, and it was morally impossible for the Duke not to be reconcil’d to Such a fair Offender. 
Things being thus again Settled, they liv’d for Some Time in a Seeming Union. How Sar their Hearts were engag’d in this Pacification I shall not offer to determine; burr, by what has follow’d. 
[73] 
it appears, that the dutchess did not keep to Ar * tides on her Side. Erinthus^ it Seems, had too. many Charms to be with ease forgot, and even, in entheops Arms, she figh’d and wish’d for him. The Duke, Some Months aster, was oblig’d to go into the Country, where he stay’d a considerable Time. He trusted much to £npzii/^’s promises, and, confident of her future Conduct, left her with that Tranquillity of Mind which happy Husbands know, of virtuous Wives possess’d. In his Absence it was impossible for Eriphile to be constant to her Vows: Erinthus attack’d her with Letters, and all the Arts of a cunning Lover, knowing that, where a Woman once has yielded, it is rarely found she after can deny. 
In a Word, the Lover was again happy, and the witty, fair Eriphile was faulty. The 
continued absence of Entheon gave them all that Security they could desire, and frequent Meetings made the Crime, at last. So obvious, that all the World took Notice. Every Servant in the house knew it, and, though they lov’d the dutchess, yet they hated the happy Lover. He often stay’d all Night; and it is known that two of the Maids, at a certain Time, peeping thro’ the keyhole, Saw them in Bed together, the Curtain at Foot being open, and next Molning could plainly perceive the Marks of illicit Love, and Honour losh Nay, at length, the Intrigue grew So notorious, that Erinthufs Friends inquir’d for him nowhere but at the Duke of entheon*s; and Fidelia one Day, before many Witnesses, by Way of Raillery, ask’d eripeile, “If Erinthus was not in her ‘‘ closet? We shall See him. Said she laughing, appear by and by like a fatigu’d Traveller.” There was also one Thing, which evidently demonstrated that Familiarity between the Fair One 
....A 
Shi 
■ aiid this fbrtdiiafe Advehturer. One of her Maids coming accidentally into the Room, Sound the charming dutchess ih a Posture which visibly betray’d past’d or intended Crimes; for she was sitting upon the Bed where the happy Lover was allow’d those Freedoms which fire the weary Soul, and give new Flames, which When increas’d expire. It is impossible td find me any Anchorite So frozen or devout, who could have Seen a Tithe of, all those Charms, without a Passion not to be express’d; his Hands grasp’d her naked Limbs; 
. she wanton’d, wish’d. sigh’d, and shew’d So much of Pleashre in her Eyes, his very Soul grew giddy with the Joy. The Ehitchefs, and not without just cause, was heartily displeasm with that Discovery the Girl had made, and in a Passion, to which she was much a Stranger, defir’d ekmthus would, for this Impudence, kick her downstairs; but it is to be prefum’d she sav’d him that Labour by her Speedy absence. 
At last, the unwelcome Duke came from the 
Country; and, having thosc in the Family who watch’d the Behaviour of his wise, he was Soon inform’d how faulty she had been. However, he conceal’d his resentment as much as possible, took her as kindly to his Arms as ever, and only waited for Some occular Proof of her Infidelity, before he should attempt to right himself. eri fhik believ’d him ignorant of all, and without a Blush receiv’d him. This added to his inward Fury, and I may almost believe, So much he hated Dissimulation and Treachery, that had she again consess’d the Truth, and again begg’d Pardon, he had lov’d again. But Fortune was never truly her Friend, and she never yet was guilty of anything but what was, by Some Accident or othef^ unluckily betray’d. doubtless, my Alhifinda^ there[ 
[ 1 
are Ladies in Clufa who have done as much as ever she did, who yet pass for virtuous, and would faint, at least be thought to do So, when they heard but the Name of dishonest Love men tionm before a witness. 
The Duke, one Evening, returning from Court, and almost entering Clufa^ he found his Chariot stop Suddenly by the overturning of a Hackney - Coach, which cross’d that Road in which he was. The Voice of a Lady, frighted with her Fall, requir’d entheops Assistance; and, leaping from his Chariot, you will not, find it easy to paint his Astonishment when he Saw Eriphile and her Lover Sprawling on the Ground! The surpriz’d Ennthus, unwilling to jmn the Hazard of the duke’s Fury, whom he had too visibly injur’d, abandon’d the Place, and, between running and walking. Soon vanish’d from his Sight. The prudent Husband was glad the Adulterer fled, knowing it was beneath himself to resent the Villainy. He weigh’d his Birth and eriphile*s repeated Guilt, and now resolv’d upon a Way of Revenge proper to her Crimes. He stepp’d again into his Chariot, and, without Speaking a Word to the mcwtified dutch ess, order’d the Coachman to drive Home immediately. Poor Eriphile was almost mad with Grief and despair. She could not expect kinder usage from the Duke, nor could she blame I thus for what he did; tho’, if she had not lov’d too much, she had not forgot that he went off and basely left her in the Hands of a too justly incens’d Husband. In the mean Time, the Coach was again fitted up, and she came to Clufa with more Sorrow than ever she had known before: She durst not venture herself in the duke’s Presence, after what, had happen’d, nor could she 
* • 
think of bbing truly welcome to her Father. To relieve her frosti these Anxieties, as she enter’d the Port, Erinthm (who had waited with impati ency) shew’d himself. She was glad to See him and, the Coach door being open’d, she receiv’d him with all that tenderness of which a Woman is capable. To be short, Albifinda^ they went off together, and eriphile^now Secure irt her lover’s House, forgot her Fears, her Honour and her Husband. She remember’d not how much she Was esteem’d when virtuous; and Scarce could think heir broken Vows a Crime. Entheon^ in the Interim, Sought to redress his Honour; and, before the Regala (with us call’d a Spiritual Court) Sued for a Divorce. The dutchess, though unfortunate in her Amourj had nevertheless managed it So well, that he found it impossible to east her; and, tho’ it was known that she was guilty of the Crime laid to her Charge, yet it could not at that Time be prov’d; and she enjoy’d her Lover and 
her Fortune. The duke’s and her Dishonour was now the public Theme of every discourse in Clufa; all Men were Sorry for her, and no Marl condemn’d his discreet Condtidf. But, Albifmda^ her Confidence of her own Safety advanc’d her Misfortune. Entheon was too great a Man to be always abus’d; and having at last remov’d his Suit, the powerful Segdann (or Senate) did him Justice, and she is, at this Time, the divorc’d n pmle, once the happy dutchess of Entheon. 
Some may allege, that the Duke was too formal in his resentment, and that he ought to have punish’d Erinthm as the Crime deserv d i that is to Say, Aibifinda., have shot him when he found him in his Way to cla/ay or at least, after his disap i poihtment in the first Trial. But it is certain En, 
, chose the better Way j It was known to 
[ 77 ] 
every Man, that he wanted not Courage, and in fiis Youth he has even run beyond Seas, on pur pose nob] y to resent Affronts done to others, who were not truly capable of doing Justice to them selves or him, whose Honour suffer’d in their Persons. 
You See, Alhlfinda^ because 1 would not rob you of all Patience, I am come to a Conclusion So Speedily, that I have almost cramp’d the Story. But you are the person whom by no Means I would offend : And, tho’ I wrote with pleasure, yet I deny mysels a Continuation of that happi ness, rather than be too troublesome. O, AM ‘ finda, if you knew my Thoughts or Inclinations, you would easiiy pardon whatever has escap’d me in my Letter. If you have found anything in it too natural, that is, Alhifinda.^ not truly nice enough, believe it was a Force upon me to please others. But if I have offended you, I buy their Friendship at a Price too dear. How cruel you have been. Madam, 1 cease to mention now, but 1 presume this Way of Writing was not prohibited that fatal Night in which you told me, I was ever to expert your Friendship, and the hap piness of being the first Man in your Esteem, but could not hope for Love. Alhijinday I could trace the Story even to that Place where first we met, and where two Fools fwho alone it Seems are fortunate) were happy, and had that Heaven they Sought, by jugling Quacks allowed. I could show my Innocence, or at least excuse whatever ^ I did, by putting you in Mind of my Years. But, by my Hopes of better Fortune, I know not yet what moved your Anget, and I rely upon your Goodness only for a Pardon, I could for ever think on the innocent pleasures of that Day in, \('hich you mention’d the Story in, Pharamond 
your 
[ 78 ] 
your obliging Compliment, and that Discovery of P my Flame which immediately Sollowed the En 
couragernent. -- -- -- The Remembrance of these 
Thingfthakes me truly melancholy, and lam constrain’d to end. Oh, Alhifinda^ I Say no more then; but, if you can, remember the Man who has often subscrib’d himself 
Tour Admirer 
/ 
■ 
FINIS. 
