QOQQOQ QOOQOQQOO QC^Q^OQQOQ y *• 
Love letters 
Between a certain late 
NOBLE MAN 
And the famous. 
Beau WILSON. 
.. ' 'I ■■ 
aoa ©oo0ob©oaqoeooaq@s'©@® 
. •.. ■ ’V --. y; 
iprice Oise Shilling 
Love let rs 
Between a certain late 
NOBLE MAN 
And the famous 
mr.fv I ISO N; 
DISCOVERING 
The true H i s t o r y of the 
Rise and furpristng Grandeur of that celebrated Beau. 
Pro Venere fcpe, pro Adonide semper, 
LON D 0 N: 
Printed [oia*moore^ ntat stpauts. 
T H E ^ 
PRE FACE 
8" “’. ff is to he e 'xpebed., that upon 
the reading the Title of these Letters, the Curious vpill not be a little alarm d 5e ^ Piece of Hijiory which has lain so long in the Dark, and is riow, more hy Chance than any other Means, coming to a fair and open Light, The only Contest among the politer Part of Mankind will he. Whether the fas are true, and the Letters genuine; or only a fwitious Scene of the worji Sort of Gallantry, and the Prodiidl of a mercenary Pen, To obviate the first objebion, we Shall only that we have not as yet had one tolle rahle Discovery, how the Party who is the suhjeb of these Memoirs, kept up that pro,, 
PREFACE; 
fuse Grandeur, in which he Iwd within the Memory of Multitudes fill surviving. The Reader will find, in the Course of the Letters, the same dark Guejfes and con je&ures concerning this Meteor of Mortality, as are now publijpd from Mouth to Mouth, without the leaf Foundation of Truth, and he has been the same My fiery since Dead, as he was when living. But the Discovery ^iade in the following Papers, sets the Matter quite upon another Bottom, and gives it all the Probability that an Affair of so odious and criminal a Ffature can pojjibly have. Had there been more said, it might have render d the whole fufpebed; and therefore the Editor has been obliged to connehi the broken Parts of the Story by some add tional Remarks, which have come to his Knowledge from several Hands, with whom the Parties were very familiar. 
As to the second Part of the ovjesion, That it might be a Work of Fancy or Imagination, such as are every Day obtruded Upon the World, under the Notion of true ilifio'y : He takes the Liberty to affure the World, that the Originals were found in the Cabinet of the deceasa, which had pafsdl throl* some Hands, before the private Drawer, the Lodgement of this Scene of Guilty was difcoverd. How, or hy what Means this was done, or from what Hand 
they 
The P R B F A C K 
they are made public, is a Point too tended and consequential to relate. But we can appeal to a better Tajle for these Letters being genuine, especially to such who have any Taste of Style, or Delicacy of Writing. They are too polite, and written with an Air too peculiar not to be dijiingmjlid from the frodwbions of a feigned Intrigue : The Thing speaks itself;; any one,, without Preface or Commentary, might easily see by the naked Letters that they could not come from any Person, but one of Birth and Figure, and many other court hke Ac complijhments. 
There is fill behind another objebion to the Publication, which we will not diffem hie, and that is, the Scandal of the Vice here described through the Course of these Papers, The dead Languages are full enough of luscious pibures of this ilind, and we doet find the Moderns scruple to translate them, in order, as we may suppose, to raise a greater Abhorrence of a Sin which is not familiar to our Northern Climate, It is easy enough to take away all Offence of this Kind, by applying the Paf jion of these Letters to difiinb Sexes, which we desire the Reader to do, and then heil be a better Judge of the Spirit of the Writer. All the Weeds will then vanish, or be 
turn d 
The P R E F A C fi. 
turn d into Flowers, and in that View let them he seen. 
We mujl heg Pardon for not puhlijhing one Letter, whkh relates to a P erf on now living, of to great an Interest and Figure in this whole Concern, to be meddled with at pr spent. ‘ 
All that can be said fr, that no Reader of csmmon Sense fan mi slake the Party, and we have no Reason to help his con jebures, when the Cafe is so evident. Another Opportunity may make that Supplement both a necejfary and useful Key to the whole Adventure, till when, farewell. 
■.. L' '. 

I '- '... ■. 
LOVE 
■ ^ ' 
T 
[ ■ ] 
.Miiaixt w’^i iii'i±iafciccmj 
irigr»i ■ i lul .1111 L 1 ■ ■ « ili.. ..».■» .... ..miulj 
i 
LETTER I. 
so Mr. Wilson. ^ 
0t^iaai.ttiini »>fsbagi A Y, Was it a cold In i fencibility that caused you I to shun a Challenge, where I to give and receive excess I of Pleasure, was to have -- -- -- -- been the only Combat between us; or conscious of your own inatchlefs Charms, are you refblv’d with peevish, coy Pride, to be won at the Expense of a thousand Inquietudes and restless fond Defifes, you Force rne to endure? 
If you are of i turninsencible to Pleasure, I know Gold has the greatest ascen dant over you | for all covet it for what it pufchases: This Bill may ccnvincd 
[^] 
you, I have that in my Power : I cai Fortune to you, and, with many Blefii rn crown the chiefefl Willies of ] Heart, * only hasten to gratify the e Impatience of riaine, that longs to you in these Arms, where you may cure me, ever yours. 
Greenwich Park, he behind Flamste House, and I ffall see you, to i row Nine at Night, dont fai come, 
I 
LET 
[ 5 ] 
& .% ^ ^ & .% S ^ A S .% 
^0 tsi 1^ ^ d ul3 islj i: & tiho y & tatj uy ii; S: u ^ 
LETTER II 
To -- -- - — 
YO U might justly have reproach’d my backwardness in meeting a Challenge, had it been possible to have dis cern’d, that either Love or Rage had dictated those ambiguous Phrases, which lay liable to variety of Constructions : I was convinced it came from no mean Hand, and for me to fix it, might be Presumption j but you have done me the Honour to disciose the Mystery by the Softest and most agreeable way in Nature; For tho’ Tm not a fraid to meet a brave man’s Sword, the Indearments of a fine Lady are infinitely preferable. Then how great must be her Power, to inspire the Souls of others with that dear bewitching Passion, who can herself express it with so much Force and Delicacy: After all this, and the many delightful Ideas my fond Imagination has rais’d, how needless is the Charge of not failing to be at the Time and Place appointed. 
R I FTTF I? 
f 4- ] 
m fii Wi M W Wi m 
ais inn N in i /afs /"»\ //^ an an /ivc\ /WN i //»>> 
LETTER III 
To Mr, WI L S O K. 
I Had not above an hundred Pieces by me when I receiv’d yours, which made me send, fwist as the Minutes, to the Bank to fetch this, I would have my tvi//y believe, I am never so delighted, as when I am doing that which may convince him, how very dear he is tq his nown Love : Then come away, the Bath is ready, that I may Wrestle with it, 
and pit it, and pat it, and -- it, * and 
then for copier Sport, devour it with greedy Kistes; for Venus, and all the Poeis Wenclies arc but dirty Dowdies to thee. 
'Put on the. Brustels Head and Indian Atlafs / Jent 
LETTER 
[ 5 ] 
LETTER IV 
so the same. 
My dearest Dear. 
IA S T Night I was in Company with ^ some of thy Acquaintance; amongst other strange Wonders, it was started how 
Vou liv’d; drowsy N -- — said. He 
thought it was so extraordinary, it would not be amiss, if the Parliament took it into Consideration: : replied squeak 
j -- -- -- I believe Mrs. 
will prevent : Several Conjectures were made; as French Money, the jew’s Jewels, Mistrestes; or elfe, a Contract with the Devil, which occafionm a learned dif pure, Whether there is such a Gentleman, or no? At last it was agreed, nemine Contradicente, to make you Drunk, and then try to fist you, they knowing you intend for Tunbridge on Tuesday. At Night the Plot is laid, which I would have you give into; pretend you are giddy before the Rest; I shall be the aistivest 
in 
[ ^ ] 
In this Farce, and, perhaps, rudely press for the Secret: Be wary; How hard will it be to treat you so different from the fond Sentiments my Heart has for you t who are all, all, the Delight of it. 
Dont let US meet, nor he seen together, till this bu finefs is over, 
LETTER V 
To the Jame. 
they are all devilishly puzzled about you; it is pleasant to see how the ideot’s curiosities are raised by this Disappointment; do you retire to Town as resenting it : In two or three Days I will follow, not being able longer to stay from Thee, the Softest, loveliest Joy, my doting Heart e’er postest: But begone then, and when the dull three Days are over. i’ll fly to my Dearest, in whose Arms, I shall be recompens’d for so tedious an Absence, and there laugh at all their ridiculous Conjectures. 
Wednesday nine a Clock 
LETTER 
[ 7 1 
ij. 
LETTER VI 
To the o K T). 
Mj ho kt>y 
After I had parted from your Lordship last Night, I was slop’d and accosted in a very extraordinary manner, * and in spite of all the Reststance I was able to make, under the Disadvantage of my Female Dress, was carried off by a Crew of ruisans, under the Pretence of Debt, by a sham Name and Action, A Fellow who had discover’d my Visits to you, endeavour’d, first with flattering Means, and then by bullying me with a Pistol at my Breast, to make me reveal what those private Meetings between us meant; but finding I despism all his Threats, in Consideration of what an Injury it might be to my dearest LORD : I, at last, found a Way to work on him, by fair Promises of Rewards, so as to get out of him, that a certain GREAT LADY who 
knows 
[ n 
knb^s ctl hef Actions are back’d by a ai periour Power, had a Hand in it. When your Lordship permits me the Honour of relating the Particulars more at large, your discerning Judgement will not only discover the Motives that induc’d her to it, but direct me how to deceive her, as to the Knowledge she already has goty having made her Engine my Creature, who waits my Orders, as 1 do your lordship’s, with great Impatience; that Indulgence, my dear Lord, has, at all Times, been pleased to extend towards me. Will, I hope, pardon my Dread of losing it, and condescend to give me your Con Jnands how to avoid it, 
letttk 
[ 5> ] 
LETTER VII 
To Mr. W I L s o Ni 
IT was one. a Clock before 1 received Yours, being, till then. With the King, or I had flown to you as Soon as I had heard the News of my dear Willy ^ being ill; a thousand dreadful Apprehensions bout your Health made me as restless as I am afraid your Disorder did you: Should envious Death take Thee, my dear efobleffing, from me, I am undone: I can’t be easy till I see you; therefore let everybody be out of the Way, that I may come with more Freedom, to my only beloved, which will be in half an Hour. 
C LETTER 
[lo] 
LETTER Vm. 
To Mr, Wilson. 
Did I not Strictly charge my dearest Boy, at parting, not to omit one Opportunity of accquainting me witi ___ his returning Health, by which alone my Joys can be restored > six Posts have past and yet no Notice taken of its forlorn ex pecting dying Lover : Tell me the Gaufi of this, if thou art able 5 buttmafraic thou can’st not, or dur’st not do itj eitherth] Illness is relaps’d with a malicious Beni to make eternal Separation, and thou has too much tenderness to kill me with tin Knowledge of it; or I have been remiss or overfond, and cloy’d thee; that tlioi dost artfully withdraw thyself from thef loathed Arms; or dost thou vilely defeeni to the low Subtleties of the inferior Sex who, to enhance their Price, play at fal and loose, insult and idly triumph ove the Sot that does mare idly fiister Such Drab to gain the afeendant. Forgive me my dear jvit7j, if I wrong Thee; lay a! 
th 
[ II ] 
the Blame on this unruly Pafiion : A Plague confound those lying Dogs of Poets, < who to delude and torture all Mankind, would palm it on us as a Heaven 
of Pleasure — damn’d Spite, -- -- .jcs 
Hell to love and dote to madness, as I do on Thee. Answer me quickly if thou canst; say Something to me, - if it be a Lye, let it be a well invented one; and it will please. 
Tou see fm mad hy G -- - 
I had forgot to hid you enclose to Her at Park corner; direil mine for Mrs. Grey. 
C z LETTER 
[ IZ 1 
LETTER IX 
To the E OK D -- -- -- 
My Lord, 
A Fter a long, long fruitless Expect cation of your Command how \ direct to you, which your Lordship ma remember was not fix’d on, tho’ lofcc urged it, I have been so wretched to coi struct it as a Mark of your declining F your: as the Tortures of ray Soul a inexprestible under Such bitter Astlictio so are my Joys as full to find them caul less; those Soft complaining pastiona Exprestions transported me beyond n Strength to bear, and then revived me wr your kind Rebukes; what followed n fed an Ecstasy too great: The past Co flicts of my Mind, under the imaginai Displeasure of my dearest Lord, mac me regardless of the Disorders of my B dy, which stnce your Lordship has enjoin shall be more my Care j my Fate is wh ly in your Power, and you have youchl fed to biefs me above all Men. Cor 
mai 
[ «5 1 
mand me to be well and live j but not (for Oh! I cannot) live without you : Recall me from this resllefs Banishment, or honour me with your loved Presence here; the Beauties of the Place have such Enticements, which, with other reasons, I am inforni’d, have long detained some Persons of Distinction on odd Intreagues, perhaps, not unworthy your lordship’s Notice. 
/ my 
My Lord, 
l ettefl 
[ 14- ] 
LETTER X 
\ 
To the L O R D -- -- -- 
My Lord, 
EJ Ager to acquaint your lordship with j my Return to Town, I dispatched a Mefienger that Moment with a Letter, whp sailing of the wish’d Opportunity, to deliver it as usual, I went immediately to the Play, in Hopes to gratify my Impatience by feeing you there; but contrary to that, had the Mortification to find one Misfortune attended by a still greater; when as sometime to disguise my secret Affection, I survey Beauty with as much seeming Delight as other Men; Curiostty led me to make Inquiry of afinedrefs’d Lady, I had never before pbferv’d to a dorn any public Place; but how was I confounded, and what racking Thoughts postest me, when I understood she was a new favourite Mistress of your Lordship, obtain’d, with much Difficulty; so that, my Lord, my misting you last Night, which 
then 
[ 15 1 
then only seem’d Chance, ' may probably hereafter appear to be your lordship’s Choice : I reser to your own Judgement, which never errs in Matters of far higher Importance than my happinefs, and who are so well acquainted with all the Passions that can affect human Nature, that it would be Presumption to send you my feeble Difcription, of what I Suffer on this hateful, Discovery. I only flatter myself with one [Hope, attended by a thousand Doubts, which two or three Lines from your Lordship will confirm or disperse; I long, yet dread to have your Answer, which I am certain yotr won’t fail to send, as, soon as this comes to your Hands, If you have any Regard for, 
My Lord, 
Tour mofi entirely, 
moji passionately devoted Servant 
W. wllsoi^. 
V ' ' ■ ■ ' 
CTT;; ' 
[ 3 
55*4 i S;; ^'1 ^4 
ft.i ?wt mim M A 1^*' M kir; & 
i 
LETTER XL 
To Mr, Wilson. 
Did it fret and tease itself feeeaufe I have got a Wench, but done let one Fear perplex it : When I have Thee in my Arms, thou shalt see how I despise all the Pleasures that changeling Sex can give compared to one Touch of thine; its true, I had her dirty Maidenhead, which I took some Pains for 5 not so much to amuse the dull Time in thy tedious Absence, which no Consideration but your dea Health, could have made me comply with; as to flop some good na tur’d Reflections I found made on my Indifference that way. But thou alone art every, and all the Delight my greedy Soul covets, which is heigthned to Such Excess, that even pains me, to find my dear Willy has such a tenderness for its nown Love; then haflea to my fond Heart, that leaps and bounds with Impatience to see Thee, and devour thec with greedy kitsies. 
'LETTER 
[ U 3 
LETTER XII 
To the Lord -- -- -- 
Mj Lord, 
IT is not to be exprefs’d with how much Rapture 1 receiv’d your lorplhip’s Commands to attend you, and if it were postible that could increase with me, it is even now, when the different Transports of my Soul prevent my ready Obedience to them. Can I Support your adored Presence with the Torture of not feeing you entirely my own. No, my Lord, the Greatness of my Passion created and inspired by you, has disdained to share a Pleaflire with that base, low, dull, insinuating Sex; let not one of them presume to hope the least Thought, in your exalted Mind, or noble Appetites, and contemn the idle meddling insipid World; but I forget myself, and rave with the distracting Thought, that anything in Nature should be able to interpose between us; pardon, my dearest Lord, when I astiime to join myself with you j remember, it is a Crime you first defeended to encourage me 
D in. 
[ i8 ] 
in, and impute it to no other Spirit o Ambition, but that of being insepara’ bly, 
Tour Lordship s 
mofi oledient Slave, 
W. wilsots 
LETTER XIII 
to Mr. W I L S o N. 
A Re these my Willy s Raptures, thai \ instead of hisself, sends me onl} Words? Why this Difficulty about; Trifle I despise > all Things are fb compared to Thee; she shall be turn’c a drift, and I will contemn the idle med ling World, and nothing lliall interpoli between us; for thou canst be guilty o no Crime to me, but that of this peeviff Absence, which I shall chide it for, anc heat it, and then eat it up With greed Kistes. I have got the six pretty Horses it Said it liked before it left the Town, anc Something it fan't know of till it comes Make Haste. 
LETTER 
[ 19 ] 
€^C$£^: a$os0sc52s£®£^ ososesjos 
LETTER XIV 
To the Lor p. — — 
L O R D, 
W' Hen your Lordship past me yesterday in die Mall, it’s probable, you might See me take up a pocketbook, which I found wyh six and thirty Letters from a very great Man to a Lady, who must have dropped it just then; they, dif o)vering an amur of some Continuance between 'em, and wherein was an Order for fifty Pounds payable to the Bearer, under his grace’s Hand. I Saw it absolutely necestary to return it entire to the Lady, but with, such Caution, as she can never be sensible who it is has had the Perusal of her Paquet. The Spirit of ’em throughout, to me, seems low and wrangling, but suppose ’em writ with infinitely more Force than even this great celebrated Man is said to be Master of. What must they appear to those who have 
D % 
[ 20 ] 
the Honour to have a frequent Correspondence with yout Lordship. 
I took Time to copy four the most re markable Letters, and only wish they ma) prove as instrumental to divert your pre sent Shagreen, as the Secret you were st well entertain’d with sometime Since concerning that noble Peer who lay in. 
I flatter my self it voont he long, before I have Orders to attend your Lordship. 
. 
[*‘] 
Letter XV, 
tomf.wilfon, 
IS this thy Faith } Is this thy Return to all my foolish lavish Fondness It seems I have taught you a Trade, and harlot like you intend to be as common and as despicable as those abje^ Wretches We must beg Pardon of the Reader for omitting here some Lines which are in the Original of this Letter, being too ohfcene to be inserted"] May every Disease incident to them insect and destroy thee. What, couldst thou find none but that old nauseous Dog to kifs and flobber thee don’t pretend to deny it, for 
by -- -- -- I saw him : Had not a little 
Regard to my self prevented, I had stabb’d thee that Moment. 
I suppose you intend to hide your detested Head in some Hole, to escape my Rage; but my Revenge shall find thee, and punish thy black Ingratitude: 
an 
an Ingratitude so vile, that thou de ferveft to be a terrible Example to all that base Frye: Did not I take thee from a wretched necessitous Life, perplex’d with petty Duns, and have raised thee to be the nation’s Wonder? Have I de ny’d thee anything? but have been so laviii to make thee (or thou pretendeft) to blush at my Excess of Bounty: But now I will be as boundless in my Hatred as I have been profuse in my extravagant 
Love. May all * -- -- — — torture 
thee, as thy Baseness does me. 
Letter XVI 
To the Lord -- - 
May all the detestable Curses yout lordship has been pleased to pronounce, with ten thousand more, inflict -- -- -- ..... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- if 1 
know or can guess what you mean. 
Is 
C ] 
Is ic to try the Bent of my Mind, under the most calamitous of all Cireum^ stances, your lordship’s dread displeasure?? you have before done the other Way, in raising me from that abject Fortune to your high Grace, dis pensing Favours beyond my own aspiring Hopes, or vainest Desires;; when I cease most gratefully to acknowledge, as is my Duty, or give just Cause of Offence, either by Action or Omission, may all the Valuable World, nay, what is infinitely preferable to all, your lord ships self, continue to hate, despise, and brand me, for the most villainous of all that black and loathsome Herd yoii have already rank’d me with. 
Am I not the Creature of your Framing, to rise, to fall, to live or die, to mould and fashion as you please > should I dare to repine at, or more basely endeavour to hide my self from the Face you have allotted me > It is thinking too poorly of the Wretch, your lord ship once vouchsafed to honour with your Love and Esteem, which, perhaps, you’ll see was not wholly misplaced, when I have an Opportunity to throw myself at your Feet; in the mean Time, de^ife as many 
Tormrea 
I 
Tortures to rack this hated Body, as at present my Soul endures, and let both fall a willing Sacrifice to gratify your Pleasures. 
/ am, 
ivy L o R D, 
Tout lordjhi/s mofi faithfully mofi entirely devoted Slave, 
W. Wits OM. 
LETTER XVII 
To Mr. Wilson. 
sure thou art false for cliefe Eyes saw you suffer G — to kifs and Slobber you, you have difarm’d my Anger, would you could my Doubts : Let me see you, but come with certain Proofs of thy Faith, that I may not be fatal to Thee and myself: Swear never to see that hated Dog, and Till believe Thee 5 You have a powerful Advocate within, that would 
fain 
C ^5 I 
fain would find Thee true, * the very Hope, is a Joy, great as ever filsd my Breast; then what must the Certainty be? Add that to the many Raptures thou alone could’st give, and I will be thy humble Slave for ever; but take Heed or you’ll find my Wrath terrible, exceeding even the Malice of Women. 
LETTER xvlll 
To thel o R D -- - 
Lord, 
W ith longing Expectation of the corning Joy, I was flying to attend your Appointment; when taking my Tour, according to Custom, I observed Some Persons, wctl known to your Lordship, dio took the Pains to dog me; the Particulars of which whimstcal Adventure Till relate when I have the Honour to approach you next in private, in the inean Time your Lordship I hope will not blame my cautious Retreating; and give me leave to say, I wait your fresh Order with the utmost Impatience. 
E LETTER 
[ i6 ] 
LETTER XIX 
1 •• 
To Mr. Wilson. 
My dearest Boy. 
this impertinent Letter I have fen Thee, was brought me up thi Morning; they told me the Fellow wouh not give his Name but press’d to have i deliver’d as Something of Confequenc to me, * could I be angry with my darfinj Rogue, I should chide it from this Neglect that you did not contrive with me o some other Way to get rid of him; gi or send to him immediately without ta king Notice you have heard from mt and be very Smooch wuth him, till I h able to manage ic so as to make the Impi dent rascal wish he had been ignorani or at least not Saucy in my Affairs, * aft you have been with him come aivviy t me, * for one melting Extaly, thou alon can’st give, will recompense a thoufani 
flic 
[ J 
such uneafineftes. - — D — this 
confounded Hurry of Business, which has debarr’d me of Thee these five Days, and forced me last Night to make use of my Pillow which was as insipid as a — -, 
LETTER XX 
To Mr. L -- -- -- -- -- - 
SIR, 
IS it postible that a Man of Honour 
and good naturc, as Mr. L -- -- -- -- - 
should be stirr’d by imaginary Injuries to treat his Friend after so surprising and inhuman a Manner, as the taxing me with Crimes to him whose welsare you must needs be sensible I have ever had, and shall continue, the most tender Regard for. I protest Solemnly, sofar have I been from harbouring a Thought of Dishonour to your Family, that I prefer ic every Way to my own; and would Sooner run on my Damnation than offer Injuries, or omit 
E X Opportu 
[ ] 
opportunitcs of paying my grateful Ac knowledgemencs for your singular Favour I am not insensible the real Offence take was more justly grounded, unliappily by one we are unable to contend witi And it is a great Misfortune to have; placed to my Account, which I shall ul my Speediest Endeavours to acquit m self of, by straining my utmost Intcre to give you all the Satisfaction you ca require, as a gentle0ian who have 1 much obliged, and may so entirely con mand. 
Tour mofi humlle Servant. 
W. W I T s o I 
Ohfervatm 
C i) 
m Wi 1 m m ® rs m m m m m m is m m ® m 
Ohferriations on the foregoing 
LETTERS. 
H T is evident by the Beginning, of the first Letter, that these was a preceding one Srbm his Lordship, burr ivrore in So ambiguous a Manner thatlf/^^, who was sts yet a Stranger to his Pastion, cdstld not by that be induc’d to accept the Challenge • which put his Lordship on another Project, and naturally led him to imagine that a Cash note shiist be the only Bait td draw this Yec 
even this Letter was not open enough to discover, the Sex of the Writer *. for wzl fon in thb following one appears with all the Ecstasies of ah impatient Lover, in the delusive Expectations of meeting a fine Lady; which, undoiibcedly, were rais’d from the Words of the iiriknowm, who says, When to give and receive excess of Tleafure was to have been the only Comhate between us. But had he confider’d how awkwardly the polite Softness of that Sex is imitated, the most Jafeivious of them generally expresting themselves, though 
in 
if 
C; 
in as Passionate, yet in a much dccentcr Manner, he would soon have been convinc’d of his Error, especially, by the last Line, where he says you may secure me ever yours, which is different from the Sentiments of the Fair, who know their chief Power is in gaining, and all their Hopes to keep depends only on the Faith of the Lover, What the Consequence of that interview vas, appears through the whole course or these Letters; but the next of them muss: fiirprize the Reader, where he sees so unnatural an Appetite exprefs’d info tender, passionate, andob fccne a Manner; but what will appear moss: strange is his lordihip’s Orders to wufoh to be drefs’d for this amorous Encounter in the Habit of the Sex he Shows so great a Contempt for: 
By this Time we perceive their Intimacy was very great, and that it was the Interest of both to prevent the least Discovery;; Wilson became the Wonder of the whole Town, who from being a private necessitous Dependant on Fortune, seem’d now to be the Ruler of her; the Eyes of all were turn’d on him, “his Splendour, Gaiety, and Dress was the Delight of the Fair, and the Envy of his own Sex; some were rcfolv’d 
to 
C H) 
to find but 'the hidden Source of all his Grandure, and destroy this Meteor of Profuseness;; feyeral Conjectures made on him, and their Resolutions were difeover’d by his Lordship, as we find in Letter IV Who to frustrate their Designs agrees to be at the Head of the Conspiracy, and press to know the Secret of his Living; Wilson being thus apprised of their Designs, guarded himself against them at their Meeting, where his lord ship, as before agreed, insisted on the Discovery of it, but he, pretending a Resentment, left Tunbridge, and, shortly aster, in order to prevent the least Suspicion of his lordship’s being in the Secret, sent word by some of his Friends, in a public Manner, that he thought himself injur’d by this Treatment; and, in particular, by his Lordship; that ic did not become a per fon of his lordship’s Character to be concern’d in such an Affair, tho’ to One so much his Inferior; his Lordship, in as public a Manner, own’d himself in the wrong, and, at the same Time, hinted that Somebody very powerful must Support him. This was their first Plot to destroy suspicion; the rest which I shall relate, must, by all, be own’d to be Masterpieces in their kind, and to excel the most 
Jesuitical 
C p) 
Jesuitical Designs that ever were known i this Managcrnent may convince the World that his lordship was ho less a Politician in his private Affairs, than he Was in the Public; he seems himself highly pleased with it, hecaule by that he had left them in a greater Perplexity than eyed. 
But thovno light could be gain’d front thence, yet not long ascer, an unlucky Accident fell our, which had it not been counter manag’d with abundance of Art and Cunning, must inevitably Slave dil coveted their Intimacy, and cast an everlasting Odium on them; for ic having been coijjectuted that Mrs. V ' — — I — — r Cwsho is the great LAD F mention d in Letter VI) was the Person who had thus rais’d him, and coming to her Knowledge, she was very uneasy, believing if Such a Report Spread, it might occa fion a Difference between her and the Power who Supported her; but certainly nothing but a Secret Esteem for him; with that Curiosity, natural to her Sex, could induce her to so formidable an Attempt to discover his mysterious as fairs. In order to this, she Set Spies to w; atch him from Place to Place, 
who 
[ 33 ] 
who found he usually din’d with different People of Quality, and saunter’d away the asternoon at Court, Park, or Play, with Such other amusements; and that osten about ten at Night he dismiss’d his Equipage, and took a Chair, which carry’d him to a private house near liyde Park Corner, into which he enter’d by a Key he had with him; where they waited to observe who else went in or out; but nothing was Seen to move or stir in or about the house ’till about Five the next Morning, at which Time he generally return’d. 
After this Mrs. V — II — s Sent one of her Spies there to inquire for Lodgings, a Bill being on the Door for that pur pose, who was answer’d by an old Woman who kept the house, that she did not care for Men; the next Day she sent another Spy, who enquir’d for Lodgings for a young Lady, who was told by the same old Woman, that Women Lodgers she could by no Means fatigue herself with; which plainly convinc’d them that her Bill was only a Blind. 
Mrs. V — It — s Curiosity was heighten’d by all this to that Degree, that she could tiot rest ’till farther Discoveries we re made; they found a back Passage to the ttoufe, by vrliieh they fupposed some Per[ 
[ ] 
fori gave him a Meeting there; accordin ly, the House being on both Sides car fully watch’d, Wilson went in the Stre Way, as usual, and in less than an Hoi after, the Old Woman provided a Cha at the Back door, which was immediately fill’d by one in the Habit of a Lad whom they follow’d to the nobleman’s about Sour Hours aster, they Saw the San person return to the Back door, ar: Shortly after, Wilson went out at the Stree Door directly Home. 
Mrs. F — // — s finding it to be a fr quent Practice, concluded, this fine L dy who made her Midnight Visits i constantly to my Lord, could be r other than Wilson hiinself, but was r Solved to be thoroughly satisfy’d, an as Women are quick at Invention, st and her chief Engine, whom I shall ca, Johnafco, contrived to have him arreste in his Chair; which was according! done, to the great Surprise of the Seen ing Dame, who alledg’d that the Nan and Action were false, and dared they to detain him at their Peril; but the insisted they were not afraid to answi what they did, and if she would n pay down the Debt, which was lai vastly high, they must do their Dut in Securins: her ’dll she gave in Bail; an 
[ J! ] 
iaotwithflanding he flrenuously insisted they were mistaken, they carry’d him to a sponging house, and lock’d him up by liimself, where he was a Short Time left to rested on this Surprising usage, when Johnafco came into the Room, who with the Pretence of taking him for a Lady, after a Preamble of Compliments gave him to understand he was violently in Love with him; and that judging by 
his Midnight Visits to my Lord -- -- -- -- -- 
his Affections (unfortunately for him) were there pre engag’d, he had contriv’d this Stratagem to get him in his Power, which he was resolved not to part with ’till his happiness was completed; by Degrees he began to press for indecehit Liberties, which was repuls’d with great Modesty on Wilfms Side, but in spite of all his Strength and Reststance, the Lover Soon found a Cure for his pretended Pastion, by discovering him to be of his own Sex, which chang’d his amorous Addresses into as seeming furious a Rage, threatening to kill him unarm’d, unless he would confess what all those dark Doings meant; but finding him too steady to be moved by such Menaces, be shifted the Scene of Fidelity to Mrs. 
V — // — j, staggering at the Sight of sins Gold and" promises, which outs 
2 weigh’d 
[30 
weigh’d his Hopes from the other Qrar ter; thus began the Acquaintance be tween Johnafco and Wilson, which in th End prov’d fatal to the latter, tho’ so the present he had secur’d him his Cres ture. 
Johnafco returned to Mrs. V — ll —. who was on the Rack of Expectation t know the Event of her Plot; when See ing him, with eager Impatience she ash’ him his success; he reply’d, I have di cover’d. Madam, that the person whoi you suspected to be Wilson, is really So but tho’ I have us’d my utmost End? yours, both by Threats and promise to disclose the Mystery of these midnigl Visits, I could by no Means prevail; 1: behav’d himself with So resolute an 01 stinacy, that I fear if he is longer d tain’d, it may be very injurious do you I believe he would be glad to excu what is past, to be fet at Liberty; ho; ever, I have yet Some Hopes of pryir into the cause of this Intrigue. Mi V — ll — s reflecting on what Johnafco ha Said, which I suppose Wilson had order him to Say; intending by that Means ' confound and blind het in whaf she hs already found buf, gave Orders for h Release, leaving the entire Managemei of it to Johnafco. ^ 
[ 37 ] 
Not long after this, iny Lord addrefs’d to Mrs. V — ll — J, to obtain a Trifle of the King, with such a Complaisance and an inlinuating Respect, that she readily compjy’d with his Request, being willing to oblige a Person of his Interest, thinking at the same Time, that her Civility in that Affair would prevent his fuspeding her to have a Hand in the Design against Wilson. 
Some little Time after, my Lord being out of Town, Johnafco inform’d her that he had made one of my lord’s Servants his Friend, but could not find by him that any Lady came to my Lord in that private Manner; but that one Night, walking in the Garden, which he had frequently done, both before and since my Lord went out of Town, to make Discoveries, he perceiv’d a Lady, the Shape and Height as Wilson appeared to be of in his Female dress, come in at the Garden Door, go to one of the Parlour Windows, and give a small Rap, which immediately open’d for her Reception; sometime after Ihe was got in, he crept close to the Window', and heard low talking, but could not distinguish either the Words or Voices; on Inquiry, he found it was the steward’s Apartment, who was a French Gentle 
t !« ] 
man who pretended to have left his state and Country on the Score of Relir gion, and with his Daughter fled into England. When he had told Mrs.n — ll — s this, with other Circumstances, which he thought would confirm her Belief of it, he gave his Opinion, that he thought it could not be my Lord that Wilson came to, he being at that Time out of Town; that perhaps the Steward might not be so great an Enemy to the French Interest as he pretended, therefore there must be Something extraordinary in that mi sterious Proceeding; which if, Says he, my Lord is ignorant of, as I am inclin’d to believe, he wou’d be the properest person in finding it out, having a Power over his Steward to call him to an Account, it being his own house in which the Design is carry’d on. 
Mrs. V — ll — s, who believ’d all he said to her, according to his Advice, acquainted my Lord with it as Soon as he came to Town, who pretending a great Surprise, made a thousand suspicious Conjectures; with a resolution to Search into the Meaning of it; and consulting wdth her concerning the best and Surest Method for Discovery, it was at last a greed, that Johnafco and another of her Creatures Should be on the Watch in the 
Garden. 
I 39 ] 
Garden, as usual, till they Saw Wilfori approach, which they did not ’till the fourth Night; Johnafco immediately ran to acquaint my Lord; after some Small Time the Steward was order’d to be call’d for, who was not to be found; my Lord then pretending that he wanted Some Papers that were in his Custody, went to his Apartment with Johnafco and the other person, broke open the Door, where they found Wilson consused, and his Female dress very much ruffled; the steward’s Daughter, surpriz’d at the unexpected Coming of my Lord, and for the Shame of being thus expos’d, ran to the Bed, endeavouring to hide herself in the Clothes; ray Lord turning to Johnafco Said, I perceive this is only a plot on a French Petticoat : So lest the Lovers, and went with Johnafco and the other to Mrs. V — ll — j, where he show’d a Fund of Wit, and diverted himself in a Ridicule on the Pains they had all taken about Such a Trifling Intrigue. Thus, by the private Help of Johnafco, was she brought to believe she had found out the real Truth of wilfoes Designs;; in Fact, ’twas only a Counter plot to destroy her just suspicions. 
How Wilson got into the Favour of the French Girl I know not; but we may 
[ 40 ] 
easily suppose that iny Lord, who tool such Pains to deceive Mrs. V — II — s, con triv’d with him that the Girl shou’d h first gain’d e’er they put in Execution thi artful Project. 
I know not whether to impute the De sign of this surprising Counter plot t( his Lordship or Mr. ivilfont, but certaii it is, that without it they had been dif cover’d. 1 have often heard that th( World would never allow Wilson to be; Man of any Parts or Capacity; but b] these few Letters of his, especially by Letter IX he seems to be perfectly fkill’c in the Art of Insinuation; whether in fpir’d by my lord’s excellent Genius or his Gold, I will not pretend to deter mine, perhaps it was the latter, iffadt him feel all those Pangs we find he ex preftes in So lively and respectful a Man ner to his Lordship. 
While Wilson was out of Town foi the Recovery of his Health, from whenct he wrote the abovemention’d Letter, m3 Lord was diverted in some Measure froii his Passion for Wilson, by a young Lady whom he had seduced from her Friends and in Order to excuse himself to Wilson says. It was not so much to amuse the dul Time in his tedious Absence, as to sop thi worlds good~natupd reflebions on his In 
[4t ] 
difference that Way; but I Should be iil ciined to believe he disteinbled with him, did not she following Story, which I had from a Relation of ray lord’s, show he stuck at nothing tho’ ever Sb vile to accomplish his Ends; and as the gircum ftances agree with this Letter, 1 am con ^ vinc’d it is the Same persori he hints at therein. 
This Lady, (my lord’s Relation) at the Request of clokis\ Parents, brought her to Town, that she might have the Advantage of a genteelereducation than the Country could afford; in order to which, no Expense was spar’d, by which she might be improv’d 5 she introduc’d her into the Company of raoft People in Town,, and at the Same Time took Care to inffill into her the Principles of mo deffy and Virtue, as the Sureft Guards against the too frequent Temptations of Men.,, 
Claris was tall, tho’ very young, a lively Vivacity in her Looks, and a l^prightiiness in her Words arid adiorisj^ that rather incliri’d to ill natur’d Satire than a well-bred politeness. My Lord, who used frequently to visit there, was, wheri not restrain’d by Policy or Civility, of a troublesome peevish Temper; and floor Claris, Who retain’d^ in Spite of 
[ 4^ ] 
her Dancing - Master, Some awkward Country x\irs, had her Patience perpetually exercis’d by his Splenatick Reflect' ions, which she did not fail to return with a tartness that occafion’d such Clashings between them, as created a thorough Hatred for each other. 
She had osten heard that his lord ship’s handsome person formerly made great Iinpreffions on the Ladies, and was resolv’d to let him See he had outliv’d that iittraction, by taking an Opportunity before Company, to run Pins in hi' fdlse Calves, to show them that xvge hac depriv’d him of his natural ones; whief childifli Trick he resented So deeply that from that Moment he study’d to b( reveng’d on her, to which he was encouraged likewise by a particular Incident A Lady v/ha was there visiting, falling into discourse with him about the Vir tues and Vices of the Female sex, he as. ferted that Vice was the most predominate in them on his own Knowledge the Lady as v/annly maintaining the con trary : The Argument was heighten’e ’till they came to Particulars, he affirm ing. no Woman was Proof against thi Importunities of a Man absolutely re Solved to gain her, be it ever So disadvantageous to her Reputation or Interest 
Upoi 
[43] 
Upon which the Lady {piqum with what he Said) made answer, And do you believe that even your Lordship, Supported by the mighty treasures you poffess, with that powerful address you are Master of, could obtain Cions in a dishonourable Way } Grounding her Challenge on the Hatred She had observm the Girl conceiv’d against him : To which he made Some trifling Reply, and turn’d the discourse; but was resolv’d within himself tp convince them both he had Youth enough left, as well as fashionable Gallantry, to work her Ruin. From that Time he began to pay more frequent Visits than usual, and So sosten’d his Manner to his intended Prey, that he Soon insinuated himsels into her Favour; he readily inclined to any one that Seemed to admire her person or Parts, willing to gratify her little Pride and Vanity, by showing her Acquaintance she deserved to be distinguish’d above them, as Superior in Wit and Beauty. Thus prepar’d by the natural Failures of her Sex, and wrought up by his Artifice, it will appear no mighty Difficulty, if one of less Skill than this great statesman, should carry off a Prize of higher Value than it Seems he ever esteem’d her to be. Ifaving4: hus obtain’d a Conquest he had 
F rr 
[44] 
__. ^ 
no further Regard to than that of making it Subservient to his Ends, as the amusing the dull Time in the absence of his beloved Minion, and to show his irresistible Power with the Fair, but more particularly to make good his Astertions with the Lady who presumed to dispute his Influence: these, with Some few other reasons, induced hirn to keep Cloris in So grand a Way, as might make the loss of her Reputation" the more remarkable, which the poor deluded Wretch attributed to the Effects of his lordship’s violent Passion for her person. ' By this Time Wilson returned to Town, arid was alarm’d at So Seeming a dangerous Rival getting into his lordship’s Favour while he was absent; but when he found by the answer his Power was not diminish’d, his jealousy abated; and the fondness his Lordship expresses in Letter XIII shew’d him how ready he was to comply with anything he dessr’d, tho’ of more Difficulty than turning off a misfress, She had now serv’d all the Designs he had on her; ’and not being willing to Support an Expense he shad no farther Occasion for, he thought fit to let her know by a Letter he was thorougly sensible of her ill Conduct, and Secret Correspondence with another; which Ingratitude 
[45] 
titude had so disobliged him, that ftf inuft not presume to think of him any more, nor attempt to be troublesome by impertinent meftage$, or complaining Scrawls. The poor Girl yras Thunder struck at this unexpected Expulsion from his lordship’s Favour, af a Time wheri she thought her self fully fecur’d of it. All the delightful idea’s she had form’d of her future Grandeur, and the splendid Way of Living, she was just arrived at, were now changed to the dreadful Apprehensions of future Shame and Wants : Now she began to think her Character and Interest with her Friends were blasted and ruin’d for ever. Some Time she remain’d under the greatest distress of Mind, without Courage tp endeavour her Justification to my Lord, or Reconciliation to the Lady she had so rashly eloped from; ’till by Degrees she rally’d up Spirit enough to attempt the former, tho’ she could not the latter, not being conscjous of his Accusations 5 but finding all her Protestations, and softest Submissions, nay even her acquainting him with her moving Condition of being pregnant, and the distref fes she was reduced to, not only fruitless, but return’d with Contempt and Hatred, she resolved to revenge herself ‘ ^ on 
[4«] 
on the Atithor of her Miseries; she provided herself with a man’s Habit, and according to the Intelligence she had got, file watch’d an Opportunity of meeting him as he return’d from Kenfmgtoii, which fell out to her Desire toward the Dusk of the Evening; she made Signs to stop the Goach, and approaching his Lordship with great Respect, begg’d she might be admitted to a private Audience with his Lordship about a Matter of high Importance to him, ^hich requir’d his instant Knowledge of; tho’ Somewhat surpriz’d, his lordship’s Curiosity was rais’d to know what it was; and not fuspecting any ill Design, nor being at all prejudic’d to a Youth So beautiful, he very readily comply’d with his Request, and walking with her to a more retir’d Place in the Park, where they could discourse with Freedom, the poor Girl, fully bent on her rash Undertaking, began to upbraid him with basely deluding her from her Parents and Family, destroying her Virtue and Reputation, and then thrusting her forth to Such Infamy and Misery, as must infallibly fall on one left in her a bandon’d Condition; then presented a Pistol to his Breast : His Lordship, who had a Spirit above being surpriz’d with Fear, push’d it by with as much Con 
tern pt. 
[ 47 ] 
tempt, as if she had rapt his Knuckles with her Fan, feeing her manage it aftec so timorous and awkward a Manner, * he easily wrench’d it. out of her Hand, and pretending to take her for a Bully (though her Voice, discourse, arid effeminate Fears must needs discover her to him) she had Sent to astastinate him. Swore he would chastise him with his own Hands, which he did in So unmerciful a, Manner, that she quickly Sunk down at his Feet under the Violence of his repeated Blows and Kicks, where he had the Inhumanity to leave her exposed to what Chance or Providence allotted. This barbarous u fage to a Woman, and with Child by himselst plainly shows what a Hatred he had to the whole Sex; for no Man that was not given to the most abandon’d Vices could treat them whose tender Delicacy courts and invites our Protection, with such unheard of Cruelty. The forlorn Cloris having lain sometime without sense or Motion, recover’d sofar as to feel extreme Pains, which she exprefs’d in melancholy Groans, that were heard by a Soldier who accidentally came that Way, who with great Humanity took Care to get her into a Hackneys Coach, that drove according to her Orders to the private Lodging she had taken 
to 
io shift her Female dress. The Agonies which this brutal Treatment flung her into, brought the Pains of Labour strong upon her; and believing her miserahle Life was near it’s End, she gave diredi 6ns to the Soldier to go to the Lady from whom she unfortunately absconded, and desire her to .come immediately; who ihuch furpriz’d with Such a Mestage from a Geritleman at the Point of Death, knew not what, to, do, being apprehensive of some. ill Design; ’till being press’d by the Mefienger, who told her the dis mal Condition lie had found him in, and that he conjur’d^ her to come, not being able to die in Peace Without feeing her^‘ she went under the Guard of a Gentleman No foorier had she enter’d the Chamber, biit calling her Eyes on Cloris theri iri Bed, she knew her; upori which she difmiss’d the Gentleman that came with her, arid approaching near the Bed, all her stesentment for Cloris* ill Conduct gave place to Compafiiori, at Seeing her in that deplorable Conditiori; which the Girl perceiving by her Tears, Said, Is it poshble that you, who have So just a Right to reproach my Guilt and Folly, can pity a Wretch whose Life you See thus miserably torn from her by the cruel Author of her Crimes? The Lady 
answer’d her very mildly, finding both her Griefs and Pains extreme; which gave Some ease to her diffracted Mind, tho’ to her Pains it was impossible;; after a Continuance of them for three or four Days, she was deliver’d of a dead Child, two Months before its Time, and immediately expir’d. 
Thus fell the unfortunate Cloris, a Sacrifice to one who had not even the ex cuse of once liking her; but work’d her Ruin, to gratify his own Pride, and mortify hers. 
F I N 1 S. 
\ 
