CAROLINE: 
I S T O R Y OF 
iss S E D L E y 

VOL. 
D U B L I IT: .Dinted by W. S L e a t e r. 
M.DCC.LXXXVII, 
: AT V 
FA'F 
■> • ' 
'i ' » 
M. ^ 
X ■* 
^ T. ■'< 


( s; 
.1 ^ r 1 
i^* 4- V ipk »?•• 0t; iv 
■ I I ii ■ lll■.^« — — — iii •< — *■ — ■<■ 11 — i*.«^»hwi — ip — — — 11 — will — w— — — 
CAROLINE: 
O R, T H E 
H I S T O R Y O F 
miss S E D L E Y. 
N 
\ 
TETTER L 
THE HON. HENRY BELFORD, TO strj EDWARD HAVILAND, .BART. 
Mountford Abbey, 
X HR EE weeks here, and not a Single line have I wrote to my dear Haviland. You mu'sl pardon me — a man happy, well, and moving for the present in a Sphere that affords no great variety, is naturally a bad cora 
% respondent, 
V 
r 
'r 
‘ / 
respondent. Here I am in a tcrresfnai paradise, for Such is Mountford Abbey; it has all the advantages wdiich Nature and her faint copier Art can give it. The Abbey, a perfect and admirable Gothic Structure, is Situate on an eminence, commanding an unbounded prospect i there is a pleasing gloom in the dark groves, contraffed •^vith the livelier verdure of the gar • and "Still more with the barren mountains that rise above them. But know my gay friend will not bear a longer description of rural beauties, and Shall therefore have done — I had very near Said — my letter., for I never was in a worse mood for writing. You cannot conceive wdiat a quiet and Sober life I lead, upon reflection, yet whilst the Scenes pass, I think myself happy, beyond measure happy. We ride out in the morning, und have a hundred agreeable parties proposed for the Succeeding evenings. Balls, Concerts in private, reading and walking. Serve to pase away the time, which I Sometimes indeeddancy pastes quicker 
away 
( 5) 
away than ever I found it before. " the old countess is revered, rcspected by every one: She delights in having all her visitors and the family amused, though She has pasted the period of life which would enable her to partake of those enjoyments; She rejoices in the pleasure She distuses; in every action and word Sliews a disinterested, an expanded heart : how much therefore is Such a character to be admired. — 
But I am Summoned, to the drawing-room, and musi: hasten to conclude. I forgot to tell you. the young Earl is at Bologna, and Mr. Mountford in Germany j he is expected Shortly — I am Sorry for it. Adieu — asture yourself of always having a Share in the heart of 
Henry Belford. 
/ 
A 3 Letter 
( 6), 
LETTER II 
» 
SIR EDWARD HAVILAND TO THE 
HON. MR. BELFORD. 
London. 
-- -- JY Share in the heart of my dear 
Belford -- oh! I understand— — capacity 
indeed much less brilliant might 
see into the Soul of my henry you 
are happy — beyond measure happy — 
the time passes quickly — Ah!! 
friend, you call Mountford a paradise -- take care it does not produce an Eve. Thou art changed, Sadly changed — never once in thy letter didd thou mention our Coterie — if you return to it a lover, and your head filled with nothing but your miflress, Sylvan shades, c. you will cut a very awkward figure among us. Belford, you will fancy the contrary; but believe me there is nothing So easy as to Shake off a modern penchant — it is just as easy as it was once difficult to our forefathers to discard their old fashion 
ed 
( 7) 
ed notions of constancy. A modern attachment is Seldom proof to a trip to Bath or Scarborough', and always erased by a tour to the Continent. I know you will Smile archly at' my Suppostng that a lover you are j but you must banish any impressions which you may have received by the Sweet blushes and downcast air of Some rustic girlfnho came colouring vi p the ail of a country church. Scarce daring to lift her eyes when So great a beau as Capt. Belfordf young, handsome, and once gay lay lolling and yawning, tired to death over a, pew door. “But for heaven’s sake have done Haviland with your raillery, ” I think I hear you exclaim. Well, I Shall be obedient. — You See by the' date 1 have left Morton House. Mr. Morton is with me in town, tho’ he hoped to have done Something to the Settlements while here, and we both write to Mrs. 
Morton to Solicit her niece. -- Belford, 
I feel Some stings of conscience — but oh! avaunt recollection. Miss Seymour is an amiable girl; her fortune 
A 4 is 
( 8) 
, is extremely large, and I know my own character. I know I could not make quite that kind of husband which She would deserve, not but if married I Should lead a very disierent life from, my present one — but Still— — — miss Seymour I take to possess a sensibility which would make her very difficult to please in her choice. I know her Sentiments; She would live but for her husband if She loved him; he must do. the Same; that husband must be her constant companion; She likes residing, in the country and rational pleasures. All these, Harry, I am afraid I Should be Scarce able to comply with. One merit you must allow your Edward,, perhaps it is his only one, that he is Sensible of his errors — the next step to amendment the wise ones Say; amendment which I know I require, would So overturn the wheel of my affairs — • ah! ’tis that dread of commencement,, my friend exclaims, which deters us — thus are all vicious courses pursued. Upon honour, I believe I have caught thy Sentimental strain. The good 
countess 
( 9) 
countess invited me (when She was in town) to go down to the Abbey, but I am undetermined whether I shall or not. Were it not for an odd Ball or Concert which you say they give, I know I Should be devoured with the vapours. You talk of rural charms, and Study nature like a thompson— — life — insipid — country Scenes 
quite bore -- for me crowds — for me 
the brilliant circles of delight. If anything could tempt me to Mountford Abbey, it would be to See my Belford and his new charmer. — This moment Mr. Morton is come in. “My dear “Sir Edward, will you not write to “this provoking Emily ?” — How fond uncles, parents, guardians, 6tc. are of match making. Adieu. 
E. Haviland, 
I 
A 5 Letter 
/ TO ' D ^^*s8^^fes@iss^y 
LETTER III 
-■■: ?t. v cr .v^ VIN" v'kr clr^.i^c ''■i^ 
rvc.f%'^>ts ‘ t f* * 
W' THE HON, CAPT. BELFORD TO LORD 
MOUNTFORD. 
Mountford Abbey. 
Why art thou not here, Mountford, to complete the happiness of your friend? — Why has France and Italy Such charms for you? — The countess, the whole family murmur at your absence; yet. Shall I own to you, — Charles, Shall I lay my heart before you, — a heart whose inmost thoughts from ray earliest infancy you know, that were you not pre engaged, (an engagement founded in the warmest attachment) I would not wish your presence. Your brother thinks of coming home; I regret that also. — • Surely on reflection by prepossession we Sink in all other duties. The men I most esteem I wish absent — and why — Caroline is here — yes, Mountford, miss Sedley is now a guest in this hospitable mansion. I know you have never Seen this young Lady. Why (She is not less amiable — less beautiful 
or( 
( ”) 
— oh! why is not Belford less sus ceptible. Caroline is all I could wish her to be, uniting every virtue to every grace. She is just nineteen, her features and her form are uncommonly delicate, (and Mountford, you know my pasfion for delicacy of form) proportioned with the nicest Symmetry; She is dazzlingly fair, and to a Set of regular features joins an irresistible animation; her eyes Sparkle with the mildest lustre, a carmine blush over spreads her cheeks, her mouth beauty itself, and caroline’s whole appearance displays the most becoming dignity, sweetness, innocence, and above all, an interesting countenance: gay or grave She appears to equal advantage; her observations Show Sometimes her amiable mind, at others her Sine understanding, an understanding uncommon in a girl of nineteen, and added to every deserving Sentiment and the most lively Senstbility, makes her a character worthy the highest admiration; when to this Such a form is added, say can yoy be .amazed, Mountford, at my wishing you — your brother id 
( 12) 
there — all other men — to absent them selves from the Abbey. You will wonder in So Short a time I have developed her character, but She has a noble candour and a generosity above all women I ever met with. Charles, you know my penetration, and that I Soon discover the Soul of a female. I have wrote to Haviland, but did not mention her. I have often told you my disiipatcd companion (he does not defer ve the name of friend) possessed I believed the glass of Lao. From a few ambiguous wurds, (and really the openings would not be traced by a Slight observer) he Saw the heart of your Henry, and wrote a Smart rallying letter. The match between him and miss Seymour I find is on the tapis. In one part of his letter he threw out Some hints of past miscon duct and the awful reproaches of con feience. This is a Subject he has more than once hinted at, but from delicacy I forbore inquiry. Sir Edward I am not long acquainted with j he has Some merits, many imperfections, but 
on 
X 
( 13) 
on the whole I conceive him to be quite — a man of the world. I hear the band struck up in the lawn, and musl sty— — Ball is given — ’tis your birthday I recollect. — Why are you at Bologna — the worthy Countess never fails to celebrate it though you are not here. 
IN CONTINUATION. 
_ ' i. 
I led Caroline to the Set; She loves dancing and performs with an elegance peculiar; She is all life, her form light, grace in every movement — conceive then to what advantage She must appear. Charles if She does not Show 
Some imperfection, I am undone -- -- 
Lady Amelia— — know — that fatal contract. 
Letter 
4 
( H) 
LETTER IV 
y 
THE SAME TO THE SAME. 
f 
Th E recollection of my Situation made me conclude my last Somewhat abruptly. — To be tied down, Mountford, in Such a manner, heaven and earth it is insusferable. — Ingrpffed. Solely by my Caroline — why did 1 Say mjy caroline 7 that She can never be. 
I forgot to tell you how elegantly your birtk d.aj was celeldrated. athousand ' loves, a thousand congratulations are Sent you and none more warmly than that from the heart of Belford. But a description of our. entertainments that happy day I am unable to give you, I can describe nothing but my own feelings and the circumstances I am in. You are well acquainted with the state of my affairs and that of Lady Amelia Belville: whoever declines the contract, the other posseffes; he bequeathed estate; the relinquishing a fortune in favour of an object I 
loved. 
( 15) 
loved, I Should consider no loss, but there is an embarrasiing delicacy in my Situation in refujing the Lady along with it. — My father, my whole family I Should disoblige by Such a Step. Lord Belford has a properly exalted notion of the digpity to be kept up in our connexions; and therefore would insist on iny marrying a woman at least of equal consequence with the one I rejected: : Sentiments entirely join with his. Thus you See what insuperable bars — but bars to what? 
I will not Suffer myself to believe I have an affection for this miss Sedley. 
I am very difficult to please thou knowest in females, how much more So Should I be in a woman I loved ^ as yet She is all my imagination had formed, but on a longer acquaintance I may find out defects. — ‘‘ And art “thou looking for perfection ?” — I believe I have taken Something like it into my head; the woman who is not free from defects (except they be very trifling) cannot, Shall not, be the wife cf Belford. 
Letter 
« 
( i6) 
LETTER V 
t 
MISS SEYMOUR TO MISS SEDLEY. 
Morton House, 
We R E it not for the dangerous Harry I Should hasten to the Abbey, to get rid if poslible of this Sir Edward, not indeed (to do the creature justice) that he is himself So tormenting as all my relations are about him. I am not in So great a hurry to lose my liberty, were it Such a man as I have heard: this Belford described indeed, (you have not mentioned him to me yet, Caroline i what do you think of him, my dear?) but Haviland, notwithstanding he does not strike your gay. Saucy Emily, would I dare Say be the choice of nine women out of ten. You have never Seen him I believe j he is tall, his person sine, quite of a manly make, his face agreeable, ex presiive, penetrating: he is sensible, well-bred, and extremely lively; very 
agreeable 
( '7) 
✓ 
agreeable qualities in my beau for So far. But then, Caroline, hix dilpojitionxy his ch.arad.ier — the former are judged by the latter, which is wild, more than wild, amongst the most distipated of the age. You know the delicacy of my feelings would never bear Such a husband, I have therefore repeatedly refused; yet still Mr. and Mrs. Morton Seem bent on an union, which Shall never take place. I have Said he would be the choice of most women — women who had not too great a stiare of Sensibility or discernment, Such would pass over or not regard his errors; his manner is insinuating, entertaining, gay, delightful, and whilst in his company one would almost forget there was a blemish in the picture. 
Our tastes in most things are directly oppostte, — a want of attention to that occastons but too many unhappy marriages : the number Shall not be added to by your 
Emily Seymour. 
'Letter 
V 
( i8) 
V 
t 
LETTER VI 
MISS SEDLEY TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
I T is unnecestary to Say my Sentiments coincide witte yours; — already you knov/ them well. To marry with indislercnce — detestable and indifference is all you can feel for a man established unworthy— — not let intercesfions in behalf of Sir Edward, have any effect on you, he can never make my amiable friend as happy as she deserves, — sty from persecution, sty into the arms of your true friends, and above all, of your dearest one, your Caroline; you and only you are wanting to complete the happy party at Mountford Abbey, there are Several agreeable visttors at it, and also my dear Mrs. Osborne, the guardian, the protectressof my youth; what obligations have I to that most deserving of women! — As I lost my mother at an early age, Mrs. Osborne becoming acquainted with my father, begged to 
have 
I 
( 19) 
*. 
have the care of my education; he joyfully consented, and how well did my patroness fulfil the promised talk! I remained with her for Several Succeeding years, at the end of which period Lady Mountford (who is a relation to my father) invited me hither. — But what in the world am I Scribbling, repeating what my Emily must have heard an hundred times at least. You ask my opinion of our new visttor Mr. Belford? — I do not know how to answer that question. — He is of the middle stze, his person rather delicate and elegantly proportioned, with an irreststable tout en jimhle in his air and manner, and a grace Superior to all men I ever Saw; his face is finely adorned with a glowing bloom, and the most dazzling eyes in the world, — Such penetration. Such arch brilliancy, I can never bear, Emily to look up at him. He is the only Son of Lord Belford, and is in the 
army; his regiment is now at............... 
and he having leave of absence, came to spend a few tveeks here in his way 
to 
¥ 
* 
( 20 > 
to his. father’s. As to delineatins: his 
O 
character, that must be a work of time. We are liable to be deceived in the most amiable. Capt. Belford is but two or three and twenty, and: is^gay as postible; he appears when, in public formed only for pleasure, and yet in private no man of his age is more agreeable; his understanding is uncommonly brilliant, and every aid which the art of education can give,, it has received. From all I have been able to judge (which can only be from his observations) his dispositions appear the most amiable,, and indeed it is the character every one gives him j a stow of Spirits which nature has bestowed on him makes him the Sweetest companion,, and whilst poftessed of all the fire of youth, he has the most delicate Senstbility, — a Senstbility liable to the quickest impressions which it cannot So eastly Shake off. The Mountfords perfectly adore him. — But if I say any more you will be afraid to come to the Abbey on account of this dangerous Belford as you call him. 
i; Adieu my Emily. 
i; 
i 
j 
f 
i 
1 
i 
( 21) 
LETTER VIL 
* 
SIR EDWARD HAVILAND,, TO CART. 
BELFORD. 
Morton Hotife. 
N O T a line from the Abbey, — what are you about? — miss Sedley I hear is in the house with you. Take care, ray friend; remember your engagement with Lady Amelia. — But how can I write on other people’s affairs 
when niy own are So perplexing -- - 
the women have no tajie or my glass deceives me, (as they Say themselves.) 
I have been refused— — Belford, refused — forever. As you perceive by the date I accompanied Mr. Morton down, and again Solicited his niece, when I got my final dismishon. — To Say I am sorry, would be deviating from truth. My family tea zed me to think of the alliance. I did not wisli to change my Situation; if I had, miss Seymour indeed would have been the object. The fortune named to her is 
twenty. 
ft( 
() 
twenty thousand pounds; this in the power of a peevish maiden aunt who is on her journey to the other world, and promises to Have this to her niece; but. were it not for my Shattered circumstances, pecuniary advantages would never be a motive with me in an alliance. Miss Seyraour did not name any motive for declining the addresses of your Edward, and is affable, mild, and lively as ever. Mr. Morton requested I would stay a few days longer here; I intend to comply; two of them are already pasted, and I cannot describe to you how much I have been pleascd with the behaviour of Emily. After refustng a man, many women are at a loss how to conduct themselves, to them — but She Seems happily insenstble to this difficulty — appears as if no Such event had happened, and is affable and agreeable without encouraging a continuation of addresses— — my window I See her going to ride, I will sty and ask permisfion to attend her. — I am returned. — Really, Belford, this 
Emily 
( 23) 
9 
m 
Emily is a charming girl, insensibility was the only error I fancied She was possefsed of, — but I was mistaken; when I left off, I hastened to the courtyard where my charmer was mounting; She Said She would call on miss Barclay who would accompany her; I asked, might I also have that honour? — you know my way, Harry, that I never appear anxious when ask ing a favour, tho’my heart and Soul were centred in receiving it — I always Speak with a provoking indifser ence, because the women expect the contrary — shc'consented, and we Set out, called on miss Barclay, stie declined riding, to my no Small Satisfaction : Emily would not appear So affected as to return home rather than ride with me., but with her usual propriety proceeded, though' I perceived by her looks not altogether with her own approbation. The weather, the country around, the new improvements at Morton House, the diverstons in London, fashionable news, dress, See. were the instpid topics on our first Setting 
V out, 
( 2+) 
out, but one thing introducing another, added to my dexterity, ended in more interesting Subjects. — Tho’ qualified by nature, education, and travelling, to be a companion for the most refined, I have been you know Harry, I but too much in the Society of depraved 
women. — Some hours indeed every day were pasted in the Society of amiable and juppofed amiable ones, but it was in public where opportunity never offered for rational and Seldom for an uninterrupted conversation; if a girl did enter a fentimentai one., it was pursued in a romantic strain, unnatural and of course disagreeable;; at another time perhaps in the middle of an entertaining conversation, a Lady has asked me what I thought of the new play, or if 
I meant to go to the festino.? -- -- -- If 
women knew in how contemptible a light their understandings appear to men, by paying no attention to the cultivation of their minds, and absorb ing every idea in admiration of their persons, I flatter myself they would 
change 
j 
( 25) 
change their System — but where have I rambled 1 — you will Say, in praising Emily I lefseii the rest of her Sex — no, Belford, I mean no general rejled.iioris. You cannot imagine what pleasure L received in my tete d tete: Were miss Seymour Lady Haviland, She would certainly have the glory of reforming me. — How I regretted the past rais spent hours of my life. The society of a woman, sensible and entertaining, filled with delicacy and sensibility, is one of the most rational and delightful pleasures which a man can poslibly receive. We had proceeded about three miles (I thought the moments .Slew) when a chaise and four met us on the road driving very Smartly up; two gentlemen were in it, one young and handsome, the other old; the moment they beheld miss Seymour they Stopped: her pleasure at Seeing the young one was manifested by her Sweet blushes, which appeared like a pasting cloud veiling for a moment the beauties of the morning; he Seemed transported. The evident joy she dis vol. I. B played 
( 26) 
played at Seeing Mr. Woodley (that was his name) Showed her sensibility 
in the raoft advantageous light; -- -- - 
Empires I thought would have been trifling in comparison of the joy in her benign countenance, had that joy been raised on beholding rae. The old Squire looked delighted at his children,, (I suppose he intends ojie day to call Emily daughter) whilst the young one araidst his raptures looked now and then at me — afraid of a rival perhaps. The whole country is acquainted with ray having made pro posals at Morton, — he will of course hear it. After a number of questions and inquiries after' morton’s and woodley’s (the families on both Sides) which convinced me he had been for Some time absent. After as much conversation as the Situation we were in stmuld permit, we Separated; the chaise wiih papa and his [on drove off, and miss Seymour and I rode home j She was more thoughtful and reserved as, She came back, her own meditations then Solely ingrossed her, and more 
than 
( 27) 
than once by mistake called me Mr. Woodley — for which you may suppose a good deal of raillery was levelled at her. “This name of Woodley is deep“ “engraven on your heart, miss “Seymour.” “You are mistaken, 
“Sir Edward j I regard this gentle“ “quite in the light of a Brother, 
‘V as from our infancy we have known ‘‘ each other. A few years ago he ‘‘ was Sent to travel, which has de“ “him until now j this is the “first time I have Seen him Since his “return.” Thus the Sweet Emily apologised (tho’ it was not the case here:) by apologies women often entangle themselves more, if leaving greater openings for suspicion. At dinner She acquainted her uncle and aunt with the return of Woodley, and the former this evening Set out to See the gentleman and bring them to Spend Some time here. I retired Soon after to my apartment; ’tis one of the Sweetest Summer evenings I ever beheld. I am growing quite fond of rural beauties, Harry; So you may 
B 2 write 
/ 

( 28) 
write as many descriptions of Mountford Abbey as you please; the country, from my bow window looks So beautifully picturesque, I cannot pos sibly afford you another word -- -- - 
s 
IN CONTINUATION. 
Belford, how have I been agitated! - — why, my friend, by the gratification of a moment do we lay up Stores of remorse— — that I could drown recollection — that oblivion Should conceal my errors from myself! — how I wish to draw a veil over my past, and to acquire resolution to begin a new life— — how I moralise. When 1 threw aside my pen I hastened down, invited as I told you by the beauty of the evening, and the enchanting prospect of the country. I reached the great hall, from the back of which a glafs door opened into the lawn; miss Seymour was just going out, and I begged we might take a walk together — She consented, tho’ I believe She would rather have been alone that 
file 
r 
\ 
( 29) 
she might have indulged her meditations on Woodley. We proceeded through the lawn, then into the park, which is laid out in a beautiful manner j indeed the whole deraesne is romantic beyond conception. We rambled through a great part of it, and at length into a little copse; wc had then pasted the boundaries of the demesne, and the beauty of the evening induced us to lengthen our walk. We proceeded through glens and groves, woods, c. unmindful of the length of way we had strayed: at length a little winding country path Seduced us still further to See where it terminated, which from the thick trees was invistble. We Sauntered on, — at last it opened; "we pierced as if into the bosom of retirement. Emily and I gazed on it and on each other in wonder; enchantment'seemed to have formed an abode the most enchanting. The Sun which was Setting with majestic grandeur in the West, and streaked the partly azure stvy with crimson’d clouds, displayed 
B 3 its 
( 3°) 
its faint rays in the most beautiful manner on' a cottage whose neatness, stmplicity, and uncommonly romantic sttuation struck us with amazement and delight. It was nicely thatched. Seemed to contain but a few little rooms, and myrtle in the most artless manner grew round the casement. It was sttuated in a little garden which stopped gently down a hill hanging over a valley, extenstve and commanding a variegated prospect of nature. The rich corn fields where Ceres waved the golden heads in triumph, the farmhouses, trees, a little distant village and its church, with a river meandering in the bottom, and losing itself in a copse. The garden round the cottage was laid out in the Sweetest art less taste, and the flowers uncommonly Selected. The cottage and all its improvement were enbosomed in a thick grove, open only at a front to command a view of the valley beneath and impending hills, and accessible only by the little rustic path which 
had brought us to it. But to return 
to 
\ 
‘ ( 3') 
to the garden I give, you perceive, a wandering account, for my ideas, Harry, are confused: : — little green wicker gate opened into it, it was enclosed by a double but very low hedge of fweetbriar and wild roses, a little branch of honeysuckle here and there also peeping through. Several little green Seats were Shaded at top with jessamine and rose trees in blow interwining; a few moss roses stole their beauteous heads through the myrtle, which artlessly grew round the windows; every lily, every Shrub Seemed to raise its head in triumph and Show the tasty hand which had laid out the whole. We were lost in admiration and delight when our attention was roused by a faint Sound like a Scream. Emily and me looked around.. A little dark walk which led to a moss house in the garden was the place from which it proceeded. A very elegant looking girl from the mosty couch sunk on the ground as in a Saint, and an intercepting tree prevented us from Seeing her Sace. 
B 4 “Oh! 
s 
( 32) 
Oh 1 Sir Edward, let us fly to her ‘‘ asfisfance, ” Said the Sweet Emily. We tried if the little gate was locked, we found not, it hospitably received us, but before I reached the Sufferer, changed my mind and resolved to go down to the valley and procure a little water from the Stream, whilst my companion staid with the young lady. I hastened away, and having got it, returned impatiently; but arriving at the mofs house, I beheld my Cecilia — my once — my still lovely Cecilia, sup |x>rted in the arms of miss Seymour. — The cup of water fell from my trembling hand — Emily chid me for 
Spilling it — I minded her not. -- -- -- -- - 
My mind a chaos of ideas, and struck dumb with astonishment, I gazed on the pale face and closed eyes of my 
once beloved. -- -- -- But, Belford, you 
know not whom I mean by my Cecilias my next letter Shall inform you; at present I can write no more. 
Letter 
( 33) 
LET E R Vlir. 
THE HON. capt: BELFORD TO SIR EDWARD HAVILAND, BART. 
Rem yly, Edward, you have left 
off in a critical manner — Sufficiently So to torment a person pofsefsed of more patience than I aspire to. Heaven and earth who is your Cecilia, and why have you always been So reserved to rae? But really my friend, you excel in rural descriptions: I Shall. fall quite Short of you, and will never attempt a Sketch of Mountford Abbey. But, Haviland, you mull not come here: miss Sedley has eyes — and you are a d -- -- d handsome fellow — 
w 
But what is Miss Sedley to nie.? Surely nothing — convinced of a Situation peculiarly circumstanced, being engaged to be the husband of another. Ytet contracts are certainly unfair, improper engagements, with which were I a parent I Should never destre a Son to comply. The Earl of Ongly on 
B 5 his 
/ 
( 3+) 
; ( 
his deathbed called me to him, my father Lord Belford was Seated by him, !| and his only child Lady Amelia Bel 
ville. By the time I was Summoned everything was Settled. I was not, much more than twelve years old, 
and the young Lady eight. “Mr. “Belford, (Said he) you are very “young to be addresled on Such a : “Subject; but I think myself justified 
“in doing So, as a very Short time “will Separate us for ever, and it “is an affair which will very much “determine the happiness of your “future life.” You may suppose, Edward, I looked not a little amazed while this Speech was uttering, for blesfed with all the little innocent enjoyments my heart could wish, I could not conceive how Lord Ongly could add to For diminish my felicity — But I was stlent. “At a period “(proceeded he) ten or twelve years “ffistant, I could wilh you the huf ‘‘ band of this young Lady, but Lord Belford and I are Superior to forcing the inclinations of our 
‘‘ children; 
i 
.A 
( 35) 
“children •, but of this vdien you “are older you will be more ac ‘‘ qnainted. An alliance between “the families is my earnest desire and “dying request : an estate of ^5000 a “year with Lady Amelia Belville “is yours, but on declining the match “you forfeit this to her, and if my “daughter refuses, the fortune is “yours: her refilling will difadvan “tageouliy alter her circumstances, “as then £^000 would be all her for tune, which Sum is in the hands of a gentleman already deputed guar dian. At present, my dear Henry, “(continued he) you do not well “know the meaning of all this; your “father in future will repeat this “to yon; Suffice it to say, Amelia “and you are intended for each “other.” Lord Ongly died Soon, and in live years after my wife elect and myself were Sent to travel. She with her governant, I with my tutor, and each a proper appointment, Set off at the Same time, tho’ 
we pursued different routes. Four 
/ 
years 
( 36) 
\ 
years were passed in this manner, and I was at Spa in Germany when I attained my one and twentieth year; nine now had elasped Since I beheld my Amelia, for one of the preliminary articles in the contract was that we were not to See each other until the time of our union approached : this appears strange, perhaps like old Hardy he imagined her charms would have a greater effect; nor was I acquainted where She was. — What numerous surmises had I formed concerning her! I was told She was very much altered, and indeed it was to be Supposed from eight years old to Seventeen a girl must be very much changed, and I had almost forgot even her childijh face. I pasted my time in the most delightful manner. J was a perfect pupil of pleasure' 
'now and then the recollection of my engagement was a damp on my future prospects. I hated restraint, and fancied were Amelia an Angel I could not love her, merely because I ought. How perverse are the dispositions 
ci 

( 37) 
Si I ions of man. Spa was exceedingly well adapted to my taste from the variety of amusements, and I could not bring myself to think of leaving of it. One night at a private ball I was very much struck with the beauty of a young Lady who entered the room: her form displayed a most enchanting dignity : She was tall and very vrell made, with an exquistte grace, yet on the whole in her air and manner a degree of Superiority: whether it was her real Sentiments or not, I do not pretend to determine, but certain it is, Sir Edward, She looked as if stie thought herself in everything above those around her, and at the same moment her attractions were Such, our six must be of her opinion. I never beheld a more regular Set of features — uncommonly fine, penetrating, exprestive, and Sweetly enlivened. Her complexion was high and strikingly beautiful j nature had formed her perfect; Such piercing dazzling eyes. Such a neck, all loveliness, She Seemed formed Solely for admiration. 
But 
( 38) 
But notwithstanding, there was a dis pleasing haughtiness mixed with majesty ill her air, a sourness of, aspect that proclaimed continual displeafure. You have now, Edward, her picture before you, almost as plain as if drawn by a Reynolds. While her uncommon beauty demanded every praise — while she had all my admiration. She was by no means formed to steal my affections. I asked her to dance; She conf 

Sented, and to the envy of every soul in the room I led her to the Set — when we had finiihed I placed myself by her, and though very anxious to know who She was, would not leave her for a moment to gratify my curiostty; had I been able to listen to anything but herself, probably I Should have heard her name whispered through the room : from as much conversation as a ball room would permit, I discovered her understanding to be fine, her Senstbility equal, added to a Sweet Sbftnefs in her manner, of which if a woman be destitute. She wants one of the highest perfections in the Sex. 
i When 
s 
'I 
1 • ’ ■ ' 
;; i 
\ : 
( 39) 
v/hen we broke up I handed her to her carriage and returned home, where I found letters from England had been left for me in my absence; their purport was, that my father was ill and desired ray return home acv cprdingly the very next morning I Set out, resolving to come back by France; but when I had arrived at brufsels had the happiness of hearing he was recovered and that I might pur sue my travels. The peculiar circumstances of my being obliged to leave Spa the day after the ball, prevented my hearing who the lady was, and notwithstanding she had attractions to en stave half mankind, my taste being very peculiar. She did not Sufficiently interest me to write to any of my friends in Germany to discover who She was. I had the utmost delight in travelling, and a Second time visited Paris; the hours I fancied stew in that delightful Spot, and a varied Succession of amuse ments made pleaftrire Seem the bustness of one’s life. Of masquerades when well conducted, you know I am extremely 
( 40) 
tremely fond, and of course in a coun try where I conclude they were first invented they must be in perfection I never misted one; the last I was ever at was the most Superb : I represented young Norval,. was drefsed in the proper manner, and delighted with So beautiful a character, exhilirated with the enchanting Scene, no night I thought had ever been So pleasant; I led out a very pretty fortuneteller to dance an allemande j She performed with a kind of country awkwardness, which however evidently appeared de stgned, every step was out of time, and She was perfectly divested of grace i from the inelegance of her manner I J was very glad when we had finished, 
on which leading me a little out of the crowd, “monsieur, (said She) I will tell “you your fortune — at the Same instant the gypsey pulled off my glove and looked at my hand, and after a few moments contemplation — “you are in ‘‘ a Situation (Said She, looking up at “me) perhaps not the most pleastng to yoursels” My heart fluttered 
a little 
I u ■ 'l: 
•: : ( 
( 4t) 
I 
a little at these words — how much more was my agitation increased when She proceeded — “you are engaged to “marry a lady whom you have not 
“Seen Since your childhood ” -- and 
at the very instant a torrent of people rushing between us as the rooms were filling, Separated us as if by magic. I looked every way, but she was invistble. “Heavens (said I to myself) how “can all this be — who is the fortune“ “— how can She know my sttu “ation !’* Whilst I stood in the Spot she had left me, a peasant girl came up and inststed on my dancing with her; I was very ill qualified to comply, being almost motionless with surprise, but the rustic inststed, and leading me to the Sets, we danced: when it was over, I Sat down in a Saloon and gave way to my reflections — though pef haps a masquerade was the oddest place in the world to reflect. I had for Some minutes been in a reverie, when Something catching hold of my plaid, made me turn about, when I beheld a figure the most angelic, a female of 
the 
I ( 42) 
I 
[ the utmost grace and beauty, wrapped 
i in the lightest dress calculated to Set 
i off her form, which like Maria was 
j! of the first order, and the resplendent 
!:, Sun of precious stones on her head and 
I another on her breast, proclaimed her 
character tq. be a daughter of the fun, I “Come, ” said She (in a feigned voice) 
I “and let us join the cotillons.” 1 
I readily complied, and never Saw any 
I * being move with Such elegance — 1| Such lightness — Such animated grace: 
j!' there was Something resplendent, dei 
licate, enchanting and aerial in hei whole appearance beyond conception; 
i even in a masquerade She was attendee 
; to, crowds everywhere opened where 
I j she.advanced, every eye gazed at hei 
||[ with delight: need I tell you Haviland 
I Ltiiought I trod myself in air; in th 
Ik, room in which we were, every on 
gazed at us, and Something like Silenci 1| prevailed. When the cotillon wa 
! ended, my lovely partner and myfel 
Sat down. “It is intolerably warm I “[said She] and I had need of calling 
“the fanning Zephyrus to my aid.' 
Front 
/ 
i 
pl; 
m 
II i 
( 43) 
‘‘ From our representations on earth, “replied I, Zephyrus is one of the “moil: beautiful of the deities — perhaps “he IX a lever of yourx — 'Iweh delicacy, “lightness, and aerial beings are only “calculated for each other.” — “But “would it not amaze you then [said“ “if a daughter of the fun Should “have earthly lovers.’’ — “Not if “they defeended as this auspicious“ “— “To convince you [anr Swered She] of an earthly lover, I “will Show you his picture j I will “not answer that he is himself a “ever, but is fettled by his family to be Such.” — “Family and connexions “[replied 1] are the low cares of the “Still lower inhabitants of this fub “lunary world, how then can a being flown from the celestiai “Shades, descend as well in idea as “in action — but let me see the pic“ “She took a cafe from her pocket, and taking a miniature out, presented it to me — but, good God, Haviland, what were my feelings when I beheld a perfect and beautifully 
( 4+) 
4 
Sully drawn likeness of my self romance, my friend, can Scarce furnisl a more interesting or uncommon adventure — after looking at the pictun for Some minutes, which the surpris 
. of Seeing had thrown me into a lethargy 
of thought, I turned to Speak t my companion — She was gone — upoi honour, Edward, I thought — canno tell what — there was Something f inexplicable in an unknown fortune teller telling me my history, and another person Showing me ray picture an claiming me as a lover, the whol was So astonishing as to leave roor 
to believe it was a vision -- -- -- -- -- -- - 
Searched stightly through the roorr Slightly because I had a pre sentimer I Should See her again] but could nc find the elegant daughter of the fun at length we went to Supper, when t my infinite amazement, I found he and discovered her to be the lady had met at the ball at Spathe me ment they unmasked, her beautifi ' face I remembered — I stew to her, an 
to Shorten my letter, will not give yo 
tl 
ill' 
Mii ' ' 
bbi; J • 
• j 
{ 45 J 
the paiticulars of our conversation, but just the discovery. t .wis Lady Amelia Belville; it was her I had met in Germany i at the masquerade She immediately knew rae as I did not dis guise ray voice; it was She represented the fortuneteller, and afterwards changed her habitj She knew whol was at the ball where we first met. 
“But how did you get the picture?’* 
Said L “Another time Mr. Belford, replied She, putting a card with her address in Paris in my hand] I will acquaint you.’* — It is unnecestary to Say I was delighted. — But I am quite tired writing, another time you Shall hear the rest. I think for this long letter J deserve the history of Cecilia and you. Yours as usual. 
H. Belford. 
i 
>. 
Letter 
* 
t 40; 
s. 
L E T T E R IX 
THE SAME TO thp SAME. 
No T to leave you in the suspende 
!, Situation you d^d me, Edward, I tal( 
i, up my pen again before the post go( 
i out. I returned from the masquerad 
home and retired to bed, but not yo may suppose to steep — impostible' filled with reflection on the past, an 
; • impatient for a perfect eclaircijfemen 
About ten I arose, breakfasted an : drefsed, and at two was Setting off t 
visit Lady Amelia, when on examina tion I found I had lost the card wit her address. Did you ever, Havilanc know anything So provoking j th crowd pressing, had, I conclude, mad it in an inadvertent moment drop fror ' my hand. A Severe cold caught a 
i the entertainment, confined me for 
fortnight; when I recovered I mad; inquiries amongst all my friends there 
,! for Amelia, who told me, during m 
; | illness She had quitted Paris. I had mad 
; L a perfect 
^ 
h .« 
: ■ 
d 
\ 
II > 
ii 
( 47) 
/ 
a perfect tour of Italy, but having to visit Some friends in Turin, Set out and again crofsed the Alps, though in a very Severe seasbn, and pasiing through the duchy of Savoy, the badness of a night obliged me to lodge in a little inn and not reach the intended stage : the master of it told rae, a lady travelling had also taken refuge there from the dreadful inclemency of the weather, though he had no proper accommodations for either of us, or our retinue. There was but one sitting room in which I found the lady was, and by the landlord was Shown up to it ♦, two Small bed chambers or rather closets were adjoining the apartment, and to the one appropriated for the lady I found her retiring, but ere She had time to entirely retreat, I made my conge, which She politely turning to return, I found it was Lady Amelia. She was amazed — I was delighted — and the pleasantest Scene imaginable ensued. I explained to her why I had not made a visit to her in France, and She in turn related to me everything 
I wished. 
( 48) 
, i:. 
II i 
t i I wished. When I had been before 
•T 1 
Italy, a travelling painter in tuscai had requested permilfion to draw n it picture; he executed the miniatu 
|| admirably, and, when completed, 
I presented him with a constderable pr 
|| Sent, but refused to take it from hii 
I as Several pictures had been done 
me in that land of painting which r would bring to England, and this oi 
; II I left with him to Show amongst 1 
little collection. Lady Amelia Belvil II happened to meet this man in Spai 
J who when Showing his drawings pr 
b ' Sented this. “Tis the image of 5 
“English gentleman Mr. Belford, f “whom it was drawn, ” Said the arti] "Excited by a very natural wish, SI owned She had purchased the pictur and knowing me at the masquerad refblved to have a little amusement. and now, Haviland, you have tl whole affair unravelled, you will h me take a walk in the lawn wit Caroline. 
I 
0 
f 
•;. 
= i 
t 
( 49) 
N. 
IN CONTINUATION. 
I considered myself particularly happy in meeting my — I do not like that word — Amelia, for besides a natural curiosity for the perfect explanation, her pride was a little hurt at my not having waited on her at Paris, which vras cleared by our unexpected rencontre. We Spent Some hours, and dined at the little inn during a dreadful Storm, and wishing to reach our respective Stages before night, Set out on a disagreeable evening as it was Snowing very fast, and everything wore a gloomy and horrible appearance. A person might naturally conclude that from the behaviour of Lady Amelia at the masquerade, and my warm description of her attractions, that we were both prepossesied in each other’s favour, yet this Suspicion would be erroneous: on my Side I can an swer for it •, if I have any penetration, on hers, a kind of dejection hung over her without the least pleasure; nay, I fancied, a little pain at beholding me. 
C Our 
« 
t ' 
L ( 50) ■ 
L. 
; Our Situation was fb critical and deli 
j! cate, that each of us laboured under a 
i! natural embarrastment, but as our Southeast: 
: il. • 
'i paration drew near, we grew a little 
I;! more frank, and mutually refblved, as 
j my father, her late one and her pre 
|| guardians did not wish us 'to meet 
. until a period appointed by themselves, Ij that we Should conceal the interviews 
II we had abroad, and rcaution the at 
l tendants who knew it... The moment 
'i 
I of our parting drew near; I thought 
I then, Haviland, She appeared a little 
I aifected j but it must have been fancy, 
j. for I perceived the stightest hint at our 
H future connexion pained her. As 1 
I: handed her to her carriage I Said, ‘‘ the 
j “time will come, my Amelia, when 
j “we Shall not meet accidentally as in 
i Germany, France and Italy — when 
we Shall meet in our native England, “to part no more — her colour, went and came — her hand trembled. Col. Lovell who you know travelled with me always, stepped with me into our chaise, and both the carriages drove off I talked the whole evening to 
him 
i 
j. - I 
( 51) 
t' 
« 
him of the cruelty of restraint. Were “She a goddess, (said I) to be obliged “to marry is death.” — Beautiful as stie is, I do not love her. — There is a tout enjetnble and a pride in Lady Amelia Belville, quite disagreeable to your friend. 
your’s as usual, 
Henry Belford. 
t 
* 
s 
9 
C 2 Letter 
I. ( 52) 
L E T T E R X 
I 
I SIR EDWRAD HAVILAND TO CAPT. 
i 
I BELFORD. 
il 
II !j 
I i 
II Morton House, 
II 
TP" 
I In our unguarded moments when 
I the heart is Softened by a kind of ten 
I der affliction, we are willing to divulge 
i a its Secrets : — that weak period past, 
I a self presenting recollection (hews the 
impropriety of discovering Some events even to our deareff, our truest friends. This was the cafe with me — 1 awa 
i 
kened your curiosity by leading you to a Scene the most romantic and amazing, and now I wisli to conceal I the rest. — Mufti, Belford, display my 
own character in Such a light — but is n it not to you who will judge with the 
II kind partiality of friendship. — How I 
talk — can the action admit of palliation — reflection -- -- -- it is death — it is 
worse than a thousand deaths — I must fly to London and chase it ftom my i pillow — there perhaps in Scenes of 
disflpation 
^ t 
i! 
fd 
I 
i t !'■ 
( s3) 
dillipatioii I Shall get rid of the fiend. 
■ — But now to explain the mystery. 
You are not ignorant, Henry, that from my one and twentieth year which put me in pofseiiion of a noble fortune, I lived, what I then considered, what I Still think, a life of pleasure, though perhaps you wmiild term it one of infamy, or to place it in politer terms, I pursued vicious courses with a kind of base glory. — You See how I am obliged to lay my errors before you, and by painting them in their true colours, to paint them in a light mosl horrid. In this manner I revelled on for Some years, and made irreparable devastations in my health and fortune: I confess I was not lost to a sense of my improprieties, yet Still a kind of Secret irnpulse led me on, without giving way to the admonitions of relations, [Such indeed were despised]; but the more powerful Stings of conscience were equally rejected and continually suppresfed. I hadisliver been at the mansion house of my family, which was on the largest of the estates 
C 3 and 
r 
( 54) 
I 
i 
and one Summer being tired of Bath I and every other watering place, rei 
Solved to visit it. It vasa desire 
: which did not result from wishing to 
See the place where ray ancestry had I Spent their fortunes in, in a manner 
which did honour to their characters and their country, where for unnumbered years, hospitality, magnificence and universal benevolence had marked the Seat; — it was in me a reffless wish for change of Scene. A number of my companions accompanied me as I was bent on Showing the country — • life — as we term it. We rivalled the Squires in drinking, and at the Same instant Showed them the more elegant vices, if they can bear the appellation, which we pradtised. v/e also charmed their wives and daughters, as the former thought us delightful flirts, the latter’s ambition was excited by our titles and fortunes. In this manner the time pasi'ed on, when the gentle -- men whon ere on a visit to me, having gone forty miles one morning to be at an assembly in the town of -- -- -- -- -- 
3 t 
i 
( 55) 
/ 
at night, I declined going, but in the dusk of the evening went out to take a walk. The landscape of a pleasant Sporting country, diversified with wood and water and the prettiest; Seats imaginable, pleafed’ me extremely from the novelty of - the Scene. I rambled through Some Sweet parts of the de mesne, meditatinv that the next throw of the dice box might make forae of my stately groves the property of another. About two miles from home I came to a very pretty cottage, laid out in a style that struck my attention : while I stood leaning over the little Chinese paikng admiring the abode, I observed a Sweet girl sitting on a little Seat raised under a Sliady tree in a sheep walk before the door. I passed Some minutes gazing on her in Silence; file did not perceive me, her attention being Solely engrossed by a book She was reading : She wept, Belford — and how amiable — how fatally amiable for herself did She at that moment appear! The tears which trickled down her. cheeks — oh! Henry, what would I 
C 4 have 
( 56) 
have given to have kistcd them av>7ay. I wished to know the book, as ftoni that her Sentiments would be discovered, from the kind of writing which ’ affected her. She at last arose and 
went into a little Shrubbery off the meadovi, and I bent my Steps homeward. Though neatness and beauty grew round the cottage, and She had the appearance of elegance instead of gentility, yet I imagined her sttuation i: in life could not be very high: I regretted 
I had not in this Supposttion introduced myself. to her, Since it would have been in a moment when 
her Senstbility was affected, her heart 
^ * 
alive to the tenderest impresstons, her I reason Sora moment overpowered, 
I her own sttuation for the instant 
forgot in that of those objects stie has read of I refblved not to acquaint my companions with the discovery of this cottage and its Sweet inhabitant. When I arrived at Woburn Hall again, 
I i I Sent for my steward and inquired of 
i him who owned that house, defcrib 
I ing it, for I did not know the name of 
i' any 
d 
, s 5 
■ i.. 
u; 
I jt iri; ' i 
t'.: ^ 
( 5 7) 
any of my lands, being by much too fashionable for Such vulgar information. The Steward told me that part of my estate was taken by a Captain Harley. “He is a fine old veteran, “(Said kingsley) and with what little, 
“and ’tis very little, heaven has given “him, does more good and is more beloved than any gentleman in the country; it is not long Since he “came to reside here, So his family ‘‘ and connexions arebut little known, ‘‘ as he lives in the most retired man“ “declining visiting or being vi“ “by any of the gentry. He has “a daughter. Sir Edward; — the two “are the pride of the county : heaven “who has given her father Such dis “positions, will no doubt reward his actions.” Mr. kingsley’s information Satisfied me I had been mistaken as to the rank of the cottagers; I Suf ■ fered the next day to pass without returning to the place. You know I have generally in tristing matters a command of myself which I do not postess in the more essential cafes 
C 5, where ■ 
( 58) 
wdiere it is required. The evening of that ensuing day my companions returned, and were amazed at Some little alteration which they already perceived in rae. I was very Silent at Supper, and though I listened to their account of the astembly, did not bear a part in the conversation; they rallied me on iny stlence, and Said the country was devouring me with the vapours. As Soon as the cloth was removed, I willi ed them good night and retired, being 
more dispofed for reflection than Society, and when arrived at my chamber, threw myself into a chair, where I gave unrestrained force to my thoughts. It was a season which made London. disagreeable : I was tired of the wa teriog places, had already made a tour through France and Italy, where. I,, was happy enough first to meet my 
Belford j the country then was my I; only resource, but I found I wanted 
amusement — it was on the harley’s I I built for amusement — it was them 
filled ray imagination. I had felt an unusaal prepofteflion in favour of the ^ daughter: 
i' * ^ 
j T 
I 
1. 
I, 
I j 
: I 
( 5) 
daughter: though they were genteeli by my steward’s account no one knew their family; they were evidently rather in an inferior Sphere.. An officer’s child could have little or no provision, as kingsley had hinted — was an object in diltrefs — I hoped to touch her heart — my person agreeable — my Situation in 
life -- Belford, the Sons of wealth 
assume— — see the whole — you See the base designs of your friend — planning a thousand Schemes worthy my intentions, and as often rejecting them, and fettling the whole artillery of Stratagem; the hours of a Short Summer night quickly passed away, and whilst buried in reflection, I thought not of going to rest: the fun in all its glory rose, and the first tints of Aurora opening day pressed through the crim son curtains. I went over to the glass, which hurt my vanity, for a steepless night had made me look languid, pale and worn out, my eyes dead and half ffiut, I recollected it was Sunday and that Miss Harley and the Captain would be at church : I resolved to goj 
and:. 
\ 
( 60) 
and in a few hours the enlivening arts of my dress, not a little changed my looks: when finished, I came down to the breakfast parlour where the gentlemen were assembled • declined going to church, which pleased me not a little, anxious that Miss Harley might be attracted by me alone. I went, and Saw her there. When service was over, as we were coming out, I went up and addressed Capt. Harley in a manner which could not fail to please an inferior in fortune j and as a gentleman whose family had lesided in the country, and who hoped to Spend Some part of my own life in it, requested the honour of his acquaintance : Mr. Harley, whose appearance ajmost put my intentions to the flight, from an air of fashion, consequence, yet humility, sweetness and a countenance the index of his mind, returned my Solicitations in a manner which evidenced the company he had been used to, to be amongst the first; he politely assented to my request. I returned home pleased with my Situation, 
I 
I 
i 
I: ' 
I. 
!■ ■ 
\. ' 
1 
( 6<) 
tion, and considering affairs en train; went the next day to the cottage to nay him a visit he introduced me to lis daughter, his lovely Cecilia. She was just Sixteen, but possessed of an understanding, accomplishments and an elegant je northeast je quoi Superior to all girls of that age; she had a fine dis tinguiffiing taste, a Senstbility and a pleastng kind of knowledge •, that blushing timidity, that unfuspecting reliance on others, and that freshness of beauty which was attendant on her age: these were not expelled by a Solidity far Superior. She was not a beauty, Cecilia was Something unspeakably above it ^ she was interesting, pleastng, touching ^belford, irresistibly touching. She was about the middle stze, with an elegantly proportioned feminine person; her eyes were inexpressibly fine, her eye lasties long, all her features delicate and extremely pale, which gave a languor to her whole appearance. 
You may suppose my vistts at the cottage were very frequent, and had 
Cecilia 
I( 
() 
Cecilia been out of the question, they would have been nearly the Same to her father Mr. Harley, the most amiable — the best of men. tho’distipated to a violent excess, I was not yet lost to a reverence and even an admiration for goodness: his instructions, or rather his remarks, (for I behaved with too much art to Seem to reauire the 
^ I 
former) were tempered with a gentleness, a saintlike meekness, and whilst he strove to banish vice, he treated it with a delicacy, not with a Severity, yet painted the paths of virtue in a light that must attract — must be adored. A military profestion had made him acquainted with men in general and the customs of the world, but this knowledge had only kept himself from error : Harley was above all illi beral opinions, which made him a delightful companion; [Jomething like distress made his virtues known but 
to the few who Surrounded him, but 
/ * 
none ever heard him repine — ever heard (myself excepted) him Say that he was unhappy. His Silver locks, 
his 
( 6s) 
his furrowed cheeks Showed a fine old' age, which the cheerfulness, piety and divine resicnation of his look, seemed joyfully to have reached maturity. Often when unobserved to himself, have I gazed with delight at him, and as often Strove to withstand inclination, i — “How can I [said 1] Seduce the 
“daughter of such a man — and Juch “a daughter as Cecilia Harley.” No apology, Harry, had I to make, except that of not having got an education which would have me Surmount my passions [without a command of which wc must ever act improperly; ] for a man at tvventy feven has all his Sentiments opened, his ideas of right and wrong established, and in one comprehensive Sentence is or ought, if ever., to be capable of conducting himself with propriety through life. I played off the attack with the true address of a man of the world and a man of destgn — whilst I was striving to steal her heart I appeared an unconcerned visttor without paying her any particular attention, and as it 
gradually 
«* 
r C 64') 
; M 
I : :, 
i ’d 
I t ■ - f ' 
I j gradually ipcreased, concealed it from 
i; : | her father. I often had him at Wo 
y burn Hall, but declined inviting the 
!'! daughter, as there was no lady to rei 
ceive her. This attention to cererno 
II ny and propriety with her, deeeived 
Si the two. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Oh 1 Belford, what have 
I to answer for 1 
i I 
I ■ 
II ■ ^ 
d *' 
'•! 
'f ■ • 
il ■ ■ ‘ 
‘I:. ' 
. 1 p; * 
■.; :; i ' d’ii 
Uil'l, 
'C i » 
lliiii. 
'inhi V 
I‘ i I * ‘ 
? 
■‘■d ■ jins! : 
i: ', ' r 
Cf " 
CLI 
ii'hli 
h i i • k i 
; »*! 1 i‘.. 
iiif Letter 
I ' ‘ f 
) ' (• i 
lit;; 

sit; 
;; • • > 
II ■ ■ ■■ .: i 
I 
■ V 
( 65) 
N 
LETTER XL 
THE SAME TO THE SAME. 
% 
Mr. Harley lived in a manner So Sequestered as to prevent his hearing my char after,, and a well Supported dissimulation made him think me one of the worthiest instead of one of the worst of men. I passed nine months in the country, and his regard daily increased for me, until it arrived at almost a parental one : I was flattered with the confidence he reposed in me, and it at last amounted to giving me his history. — In a delicate manner J one day hinted a wonder at his continual retirement, and Secluding from the world one of its fvveetest ornaments, his Cecilia. — “May file (Said the ve “nerable man) when She is acquaint“ “with it, meet with the fate her ‘‘ gentle virtues deserve, and not those rigorous strokes of fortune her aged “father has experienced. I am de“ “(continued he) from an 
illustrious 
, ( 66) 
\ 
illustrious family j but being ^ 
“younger fonof. oneof theyounge 
“branches of it, my fortune wa 
“Small, about £500 a year; there 
“were Several brothers of us, an 
“Some of them .by inevitable misfoi 
i: “tunes in the professions they ha 
r chosen, were reduced to the utmo: 
‘‘ distress: : eldest Son refused t 
“astist them 1 on me therefore fe 
'\ 
that task, the ties of blood, — of con “mon humanity, calledon me, - “could I be deaf to their entreaties“ “mortgaged my estate to rely h “them, and left myself only ^200 
“year. I Shortly after became a( “quainted with a young lady wit “whom 1 became enamoured. Mi “Meadows, (that was her nam(;! was the daughter of a Baronet, hi 
i ‘‘ a family pique had long prejudice 
II “the Harleys against them, which 
jj. “was reciprocally returned by tl 
i; “father Sir William Meadows, wf 
J II 
il was enraged at hearing of our attacl 
f ment, as She was his only chil< 
and to inherit a very large fortune 
S; CC 
i .i 
1: 
II I' 
i, ' 
i 
I 
( ^7) 
A love the most ardent was however “deaf to the interposttion of family “or the want of fortune, and we “married privately. This step entirely “disobliged all our relations, who im ‘‘ mediately cast us off. — And tired of “a world where we had not a fusfici ‘‘ eney to live in the manner we ” were used, and Shunned by our “families, we retired to the country, where we experienced the utmost “felicity: the Succeeding year my “Maria blessed me with the little “Cecilia. — Soon after, one evening “leaning over a little hedge at the foot of our garden a road ran out“ “a chaise and four which was driven up overturned; our whole family immediately ran to their “aflistance, but what was our amaze' 
'
“ment to'behold .Sir William Mea“ “in the carriage; it was So very late, added to the fright, the darkness prevented his knowing us; he was brought into the house, and ‘‘ we insisted he stiould stay the night with us; he s complied, and we did 
not 
■1 »■ 
( 68 ] 
** not let him See us any more tha, ** night. The next morning I pre “Sented myself to him, and had tb “happiness to find him at last move in our favour. — I brought in Mari “and the little Cecilia, he embrace “them, and a happy reconciliation er “Sued. Sir William Soon after left u “but not until he had Settled on i an estate of six hundrerl a yea “which gratifying all our little want “made us the happiest of huma “beings. — But how transtent is fel “city here! In a few months he diei and left his fortune to a nephew who on examining the estate foun the part Settled onus had been “purchase, and the gentleman froi whom Sir William had got it, i “reality had no right to Sell it : youn Meadows made this public, and tl “immediate consequences were, tl “family of the gentleman deceascc who had Sold, commencing a Sui “on which I expended Some part C “my owm little property, and ^ length was cast. This was a Sevei 
mortistc? 
( h) 
mortification to my Maria and “me, Who had just tasted uninterrupt“ “happiness in the Sweets of an “income which enabled us to live in “the manner we were used to. — But “ah! Sir Edward, what is the loss of “fortune to the loss of those we love. “— My amiable Maria was Soon after “Seized with a fever which in a few “days carried her off. — I will not “affect you — I will not dwell on “the Sorrow wdth which this event “overpowered rae. When it was ‘‘ Somewhat abated, I wrote to Several “of my own, and many of her rela “tions to beg a reconciliation might “ensue, as my once adored Maria had “left a daughter, and nothwithstand “ing Sir William Meadows (who “was the principal person, as from “him only we had expectations) had “fet the example, yet as he was no ‘‘ longer ah ve, they were obstinate in ‘‘ maintaining a family prejudice on “both Sides, which but for too many “years had been Supported, and the “present were resolved not to break 
“through J 
i 
( 7°) 
i 
i through : even my maria’s relatioi 
“refused to See, — refused to count 
^ V 
“nance her child. — I forgot all th “time to tell you, Sir, (continue ** Mr. Harley) that from a very earl age I had chosen and had adored “military life; I had Sold out whe “I married, but about a year and “half after my wife’s death, rr “country calling for the Service i “her Sons, I enterevd into anothi “regiment, and placed my daughte “at a boarding School. I have fai the profestion of arms had ever bee “my delight; 14 years did I pass i difficult Situations, — the perils — tl “dangers of wars were recompense“ “their glories, — it was left at la for me to think So, as I never roi “higher than the rank of Lieutenant 
O 
“my family who were noble, ha “they not been blasted against mi “by their interest would certainl “have promoted me; but I repin “not. Sir Edward, — think not I n “pinoj to be of use to my countr is enough. — I laid down ray arms“ 
“
« 
( m) 
^ grown old in the Service, and fatigu ‘*^ ed with it, my health injured rby “foreign garrisons, I returned to “.England, impatient to behold my “Cecilia. — I found her all a fond “parent’s expectations had amounted “to of perfection. — In contemplating ^ with delight her virtues and ac“ “the dangers of battle, “the toils of war were forgot. — But “still Sickened of a world where So “narrow a fortune as ours met with “contempt, and discarded by those “to whom we were related by the “tender ties of blood, we resolved to “leave it, and made atour through “the neighbouring counties to choose“ “agreeable residence; this part of your estate was Suited to our “taste, and we became your tenants; “the little remainder of my income “and my half-pay being all we have “to live on, I declined visiting any “person in the country, and even “met at first your advances with “regret, a regret however long Since “changed for pleasure, from a know“ 
“
% 
4 
( 72) 
I 
I 
“ledge of your goodness; and no“ “know my history, you do nc “wonder I am Sure at our retire “ment.” Thus ended harley’s re lation. — I will not, Belford, keep yo ' in fuspenee. I Saw from the sttuatio 
of affairs my design was hard to ac complifh and required time. Some particular circumstances obliged me II autumn to go up to London, where had not been many weeks when heard Mr. Harley had died. — Vice so a moment repelled by a knowledge o virtue in another. I at first regrettc( his death, but that Soon wore off oi the recollection ray Schemes on th daughter would eastly be effected fron her peculiar Situation. I Suffered thi next winter and ensuing Spring to pass and in the latter end of the Sum me: [as it was then about a year aft: harley’s death] vistted Woburn Hall ' nor had I been long there until j hastened to the cottage. A friend ],, found had come to live w'ith mis 
Harley, a Mrs. Walstngbam, and thi; i woman I feared would be a Spy or 
ID) 
i 
il 
1 
I 
( 73) 
my behaviour. In private, therefore, was all my addresses to Cecilia paid 
I Saw evidently I had touched her heart, — then was the time. I told her what was really the cafe, that from an uncle I had very great expectations, but if this uncle heard I married a young lady in private life, unknown to her family and the world, I wpuld forfeit all pretensions to his favour. On, this account I alleged the necessity of a private union, though not without Some difficulty, from her own notions of honour and propriety; She 
consented. -- -- Slow, Belford, Shall I 
tell you my own baseness! -- -- One of 
my Servants personated a clergyman. — Cecilia, the amiable, — the innocent Cecilia, thought herself the wife of your Haviland. 
% 
D Letter 
% 
( 74; ' 
LETTER XII 
, I 
THE SAME TO THE SAME;. 
i 
Cecilia loved her destroyer, because She knew him not to be Such; — loved me with that delicate ardour consistent with she sensibility which marked her character. Mrs. walstng ham, naturally possested of a middling understanding, with little curiostty and not a nice observer, did not discover our attachment, much less its consequences, and this lady often for a 
I, week at a time left miss Harley, to 
pay vistts in the neighbourhood, and very likely made one of those excur stons about the time of our Supposed marriage. Thus between Woburn Hall and the cottage three months pasted, at the end of which time being quite tired of the country’ and of Cecilia, I resolved to quit both at once. — But this step was not quite So easy even to a man of my cast. — To discover the whole to her, -- -1 could 
V 
A 
'( 75) 
not do it, Belford J and to Id her remain in the Supposition that She vas legally married, was an imposition 
which must Some time or another have 
> 
an end. — Yet still, Harry, I was unable to divulge it let what would ensue. i told her my uncle who was in Florence wished to See me. I Settled an annuity, and requested the income of it She would use for pin money : I took my leave of the country, giving her directions to different routes for her letters, and a thousand promises of eternal affection, enjoining hei to keep our union Secret, and when the period arrived of my uncle’s dissolution, a promise of making our marriage public, and introducing her to all my family as Lady Haviland. With assurances like these, the innocent Cecilia rested contented. I bade her adieu, — never, — never, Belford, with the intention of Seeing her more. On my return to the capital, ray usual gay life I again commenced, though the stings of conscience often upbraided rae. I wrote not — heard not from 
D 2 her, 
() 
her, — her letters by my artful contrivance all going to Florence. In reality, 
; ray friend, I knew my uncle would not 
I ' give ear to .this match, and my own !' pride would never Suffer me to introduce 
her to the wmrld as my wife. Thank heaven then She. is not. — But why, you will Say, did I deceive her? four years have pafsed Since, and all ray relations urged me to think of Miss Seymour i this proposed alliance brought me to morton house, but She has refused, and I am not Sorry, Sensible I could not make her happy. — In Cecilia Harley there was Something Sweetly interesting and engaging, but Emily has a vivacity and a degree of pride of birth; the former though her exalted Soul would Spurn the idea, is just: the enchanting mistress, and the latter the proper wife; — whilst I make the remark, I must confess, the idea is insolent, my ‘‘ Sweet rustic maid’s” family being fully equal to Miss seymour’s; but that the marriage of her parents disobliging them, they have cast her off, and her fortune Setting 
/ 
j ' 
( 77) 
VT » 
her below them -, I intended had I married Emily, by a letter (for I never could personally)) acquaint the gentle Cecilia with her Situation, and Settle on her a fortune which would enable her in Some foreign country to live in an elegant Style,. her circumstances unknown. — You know, Harry, France, Italy and Spa, produce many of these fashionable exiles. After I had quitted the mansion, I made Robert (the Servant who had personated the clergyman, and who from that base action, I was obliged to make confidant in the whole affair) Stay at Woburn to be a Spy on the actions of Cecilia and pay her the appointed annuity; he informed me by letter that when She received the Salary She inquired earnestly about me, but Robert was cautioned always to Say he was ignorant where I was, but certain it was out of England. — Thus you See, my friend, with an art the most extreme, this Seduction of one of the Sweetest, finest girls in the world has been conducted : when the affair 
D 3 is 
#• 
( 78 > 
as unravelled I know She will not upbraid, - — She will pine I fear in Secret. 
'Instructed by a father the most perfect 
of men, Cecilia is the beautiful resemblance of her angelic parent— — notions of honour the most elevated, and her sensibility So fine, I fear the effect my behaviour may have. Robert from family difference left my service, but with a vov/ the most Solemn never to divulge to any person the steps I had made him take. kingsley the steward vv^as next appointed to pay the annuity without letting him know the connexion, alleging miss Harley had taken the trouble to distribute it in my name to the poor. After the stev/ard had paid a few gales he informed me the cottage was Shut up, Cecilia and Mrs. walsingham gone, and nobody knew where, from the strange manner in which they had conducted their decampment. This unexpected event grieved me extremely; the idea of her being distresfed, — Belford, it was insupportable— — that time I heard nothing of her until 
that 
If' ■ ' ' 
'll" i 
1'' i 
•» * ■ i V 
ri 
s:; 
( 79) 
that walk I took with Emily which presented her to me; while we were standing by her whilst ffie was in the saint, a maidservant ran out ancl, carried her in, on which we came ■ home', and the next morning miss seymour without knowing who She was, Sent politely to inquire after her health j the message returned was, She was better. Now how to act, my dear Harry I am very much at a loss 
• — interview is out of the question, for both are unable to Support it; yet I want her to be happy, and to receive the annuity : what motive could She have had for leaving her former rest dence, except it was to avoid getting the income. — I will write to her, Belford, but Shall I or Shall I not draw aside the veil and Show the black proposal to the poor Cecilia } — So much ingrosted in my letters I have been with my own affairs, I did not mention yours; your masquerade adventure was delightful, — and for not admiring, I am not clear that you 
D 4 deserve 
; ( 8o) 
I 
I. 
j deserve the divine lady Amelia Be 
A ville. — Be cautious in time, and quip 
the Abbey, is the 'advice of yoi 
II ' aitectionatc \ 
U I I ‘ 
II 
; !!!i 
II Edward Havilan: 
’• : -- dt 
'! I ^ 
'.: i I 
!ilil tj? 
■ '!!r' < 
i — 
h I \ 
hi 
■ i 
’ J 
1., : 
.AT: : 
'♦ 
.1. i; 
i. i i«.|j 5 
: 
^ir hji : 
i 
, i.ii i. ' 
■!>!*• ii ■ 
.;; .H i 
TB = 
; n: • 
wp: i i 
3 • 
t:; 1 I 
'1 II i 
... d; 
hi: '‘i ■ 
! !!; ■ II i 
S' Ti : 
;.! i.. 

i' ' 
'^ 
. i ■ 
.11 > 
hi;. ' s 
mil’ 
J" 
.iiiilijlli! I ' ' '. 
B 
II! 
! 
1 
inlhnili; 
■/ 
T, i) 
• j 1 
dll (■ 
A 
( 8i) 
f 
LETTER XIII 
MISS SEYMOUR. TO MISS SEDLEV, 
Morton House. 
o H, Caroline 1 who do you think is here? — Woodley — Charles Woodley — ■ your little friend’s head is turned with joy, I Seem as if I breathed a purer air and had made a higher afcension in; a Balloon — absolutely these male creatures must not know their power, they really fluctuate one’s Spirits like a thermometer, and my my complexion. from a Dauphin blush has risen three degrees to a Carmine glow. — I am quite wild with Spirits, Cleveland — apropos to Spirits, women who have them are certainly a thousand times more delightful than your grave ones or pieces of Still life whose features are always on the Simper, but never amount to a Smile — a very favourable argument in favour of you and rae and:. Caroline, So the text of my Sermon' is, “we are both the fine ft girls, in 
D 5 “tha 
J 
II C 82) 
h! * 
.; { 
i|j the world.” Capt. Belford muh 
J be a very pretty fellow by your de 
ij foription, and you are in a dangerous 
Situation j his correspondent (I know him to be Such, but am Sure two men hof Such opposite characters can never 
1 have formed a friendship) is here ffil!, 
I My last letter * gave you an account 
!i of our adventure at the cottage; I 
h pity the poor girl with ast my Soul) 
; j tho’ ignorant of her ciieumstances; 
I ’tis easy however to conjecture — 
LI men are So very designing (you Seel 
I am beginning to rail like an jold maid) 
II and women so very weak, ^ so fond of 
lil placing what they call a generous triijl\ 
which in reality is no more than, ro il|i man tic folly, that there are but tpc 
; j j ' ^ 
I many deluded, and I fear the lady a1 
i the little paradifo amongst the rest b) 
i the amiable Sir Edward. — A bouquei 
||; is just thrown at me as Lam writing 
|! with a window up which .looks into 
|; the gardens, Woodley sitting in th( 
Temple has levelled k for a Signa 
III t( 
m'! 
: : LI 
jijil * q3)itted, 
h! 
ri'i 
l jl! 
s i 
fi 
I ' 
( 83) 
to come — I sty — as I am in a very 
mood, which will kill time in the Grotto. Now for a compliment — • as I advance I will look through my fingers like Letitia Hardy — Really, Woodley, Says 1, you have a very fine, effefi lolling on that rustic Seat and looking at me on the river sidej, you may fancy I am just going to step in and am a Venus bathing whilst you may think yourself Paris ori Mount -- ida, -- -- Adieu. 
I am returned, Caroline, .after an hour’s tristing; Mr. Woodley says i am the divinest girl on earth, and I am very much inclined to be of his' opinion; but certainly a little absence. is .of great nse to the menr^fuel to the starae my dear; with this desigic I propose paying you all a visit at Mountford Abbey next week; if yom write to me before that time, direct; 
to L -- -- as I Shall pass that town in 
my way thither, and will then get thejetter, Adieu— — die to See you. 
E MIL Y ■' SOUTHEAST y M O V R... 
i (84) 
i ' ■. 
i LETTER XIV 
i 
1 
i 
I MISS SEDLEY TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
1 
i 
Mountford Abbey. 
.You are very right, Emily vivacity in girls like us is much more na 
I turalfthan gravity: where Some indeed are naturally Solemn,, it is not to be condemned, but when others put it on artificially to give an air of fense it is insufferable, nor was I ever fond of your dye away languid pieces. In our reflecting moments I flatter myself few at nineteen or twenty were ever more Serious, but we were certainly Emily formed to enjoy the world from a certain delightful tout 
II. en jhnh/e^ a life, a Spirit, cb 
Ever happy in the happiness of my 
I;. friend, I rejoice in the return, of Mr. 
il Woodley, and in your having refused 
Sir Edward. You were right in Saying ' he was not the ftiend of captain, 
^ Belford J I have often heard him de: II dare the reverse: Lord Mountford is 
nil ^ 
: i 
S i 
:; i ■ 
S 1 
'Y;; 
■ 
1: ' * ‘ 
( 85), 
Such,, though he often writes to the Baronet. I long impatiently for to See Belford, and give me your opinion of him : his mind — his person every hour Seems to improve on me, the former in Some new grace, the latter in Some noble Sentiment. We are delighted here with your intentions of coming; the countess, the lady Mount, fords and your Caroline expect yort with impatience and delight... 
» 
/ 
« 
V 
u 
4 
\ 
4 
. L 'E t t e r 
1 
\ 
L ( 86) 
i!! 
i 
I 
1 - I. ■■. - ^ < 
I'. " LET ER, XV; ' 
■ i I'. 
j; MISS SEDLEY TO MRS. OSBORNE. 
i I 
ill ^ 
, Mountford Abbey. 
i ^^HY my dear madam were yo 
I the first to break up our little happy 
ii coterie j I miss and regret every hour 
I the absence of my beloved patroness: 
ii ’tis fortunate my friend my earliest 
hi friend, ray Emily is hereto consble 
me; stnce you left us, there has been 
i a theatre erected, our plays, are very 
i well performed and afford us a great 
f deal of rational amusement. The 
;!, countess is in transports, as Mr. 
p; Mountford is Shortly to be here :, Capt. 
if Belford is still with us, tho’ hourly : ex 
I' pected in the North at his father’s. Is 
j he not, my dear Mrs. Osborne, alii 
i told you? so animated, fofonstble. So 
if delightful, I look forward with regret 
II to his leaving the Abbeydo you not 
H think we Shall Sustain in the want of 
Ii - company an irreparable loss — and I! now the winter approaches, particu 
in larly, 
II s 
; 
a 
h 
! ( 
'\ 
I * 
(8-7). 
V 
larly, a winter in the country appears formidable to a person unused to it as, 
I am J I believe however I Shall quit ' Mountford after chrislraas, Adieu, my dearest madam, and believe me. your ever affectionate and obliged 
C A R or 1 N„ E S E D L E 
i 
/■ 
t ' 
\ ■ 
/ 
r 
J 
L E T T E R 
s 
\ 
* 
ic 
( 88) 
ff: - 
‘; 1 ' 
lil i \ 
fi; 
LETTER XVL 
ic ■ ■■ ■ 

I',; MISS OSBORNE TO MISS SEDLEY. 
iili 
iiji Richmond. 
liji! 
1|| Jr ROM an affection for my dear 
111 Caroline the most, exalted, and a 
II thousand wishes for her happinefs.in 
if! every Situation, added to having the 
0 care of her education, I take the 
1 T i ^ 
: i; ij liberty of being her adviser you are 
II very young. Mils Sedley, and very 
li fusceptible — and that Sufceptibility 
|: j though requisite in a perfect female 
ii character, and ever to be admired, 
ill j is but too often a Source of misery to 
|| : | the posteslbrs; from .Sixteen to twenty 
II are the years of trial. Now do not 
ill be angry, — but. you Speak of Mr. 
i I Belford with a degree of warmth of 
ill admiration — that makes rae uneasy. 
II From all on a Short visit I could be 
Ij able to judge, he is highly amiable in 
II mind and person, but still, my dear 
il, girl, it were better you were not pre: 
:; poslested in his favour, tho’ were I to 
1 guide 
il: 
■;! 
'f 
d‘i 
i’l' 
III 
( §9) 
t 
guide the world I Should think and many others think you deserving of the most elevated rank, yet this gentleman might be already engaged or prepossesred in favour of another, and heir to a title and a noble fortune, might think of a different connexion: and now forgive me my dear for Saying all this, I only mean to put you on your guard. I Send you by the bearer of this letter a story, which from the turn of your disposition I know you will likej Mr. Osborne found it in a closet among Some other mannscripts left him by a relation, and a letter of preface at the beginning which it is unnecestary to send you j it mentioned the events to have lately happened, the persons concerned to be connected with our relations, but for family reasons the names inserted are feigned This history Showing in the strongest light the fatality of an attachment where there is not a probability of return, or the sttuation of the persons not answering, it was a custom with Mr. osborne to read it to many young 
people 
‘j ( 9°) 
people to guard them against eai || preposseffion. present my comp 
i!! to the family, and believe n 
ill i my dearest Caroline, 
ijiilii i 
||!! - Yours, 
f,; : jvlia osiiorit 
slip I - 
|! 
iiiaij! i 
ihiih : 
I nt'; ( > 
I "I' 
lin l i. ji ■') : 
i lii,, 
* 
ir 2 i 
'lil! 
yfi\ 
i: tlji<!| • II i 
'‘■ ’iil i 
iiilii M : i 
ftt*** ’* 
; II ij • 
II 
iiiil ’ 
'mil' ■ 
ni j I 
I 
Hii i : 
; !U: I ^ 
'! lill - 
WW! i 
■III I • 
iri* 1 
ci‘i' 
intliji I 
mi 
illlll * 
linv; i 1 
WIR: 
: i 1 iiljlct 
nit; I 
il ft. 
ii=>i!!s 
"liijil 
•; !!? 
Still ^. 
: 
1. - ■■ - • dijj i;, 
"!» :,. - ' 
U “! 
- ■. / ^ ■ 
!' a _ ■ 
rf't! i ... 
ill 
() 
Hhe Jiory mentioned hy Mrs. Ofiorne^ and Jeni by her to Caroline. 
hi/lory ofemihia. and Louisa. 
In a European city lived Emilia and louisa, who in their fifteenth'year were ornaments to the world, their forms were faultless, their educations uncommonly elegant, and nature had endowed with genius and understandings of the most Superior order. They were gentle, and filled with a sensibility which while it excited the admiration of others, was destructive to their own peace of mind; yet they were also very lively, witty, and pos sested of all that vivacity So adapted to their age. Emilia and louisa were in an equal and an elevated rank of life, the former had early lost her parents, the latter’s were still alive.. 
It was at this Sweet age of fifteen, when their beauties dawned forth in all the lustre of opening loveliness, like a lily at returning day or after a Summer shower, that louisa in a 
private 
/ 
\ 
Ill' ( 92) 
• I » 
: 
||| i.. 
|; | private party first, was struck withtl 
I ip nameless graces of Harry Fond ville 
j!j|i ere file had beheld him, She had S 
, i dom from her youth observed, m( 
III ' with attention, but the beauty of 1, person, his winning address and the 
I numerous perfections which our he 
So eminently possefsed, filled her wi emotions different from any She h hitherto experienced — the innoce ' louisa wondered at feeling: an inwa 
O 
glow of pleasure if he addressed he I. as he was distinctly connected with 1 
i family, they Soon became acquaint 
ijl and every place to her was deserted 
b Fond ville was not there. — So 
^. after, as Louisa and Emi 
were walking in a public circle. ditfipation, Harry passed and Salir 
I I the former — Emilia never before 1 
I I held him, and her taste being Sir 
lar to her friend’s, her imagination LI ly and her. heart fusceptible of qu imprestions. She was struck instan with the beauty of his person— — ville was the second Son of a reputa family, and was animated, delight 
( 
‘ 
( 93) 
and perfectly irresistible — in Short, no man either in internal or external perfections ever Seemed worthy of being the husband of Louisa or Emilia but hirnself; but where were two Harry fondvilk’s to be found? I will not tyre the reader of these Sheets with particularities : our heroines Soon had no eyes for any but himself; and convinced each other Saw it, unused in 
* 
to conceal their feelines, confes sed mutually their attachment. They often restected if Such a thing Should happen as his paying his addresses and making proposals for either of them, what the other Should do. But now a blow awaited them of the Severest nature — his regiment was ordered to a foreign garrison, and emilia’s health being in a declining state. She was obliged to remove into the country — If thou hast knowm, reader, the pangs of Separation, judge what our amiable heroines now must have felt — the same period tore them from the mutual object of their affections and from the confiding bosoms. 
of 
» 
L ■ ( 9+ ] 
•nl ’ 
: 'CT each other. By a correspondenc 
l|j‘ however which they maintained, the 
|! in Some meafiire Supplied the loss C 
p; each other’s Society, and after a II 
llr months Separation louisa acquainte 
i! her friend in a letter, that their dea 
lih * 
pi Harry Was returned, and then on 
ir visit to them at their country houli 
i'; Every letter now' was filled with him 
II and Emilia felt a little envy, of which 
|; j there was but a very Small compoii 
STION in her nature, at the felicity he 
friend was tasting, not that She wish I;; ed her less happy, but only regretta 
that She also did not enjoy the Societ II of an object To dearly estimatec 
f' A considerable time now elapsed, with 
!;; ■ out her receiving any intelligenc 
h from her friend 1 this stranve Sileno 
‘ filled Emilia with Surraifes and anxiety; 
at one moment She dreadei ‘■'s that Fond ville was paying his addrd 
fes — that his entreaties had balance! »;? her friendsliip, and that embarrasl'ei 
J and confused at her conduct, Louis 
If knew not how to write. The cruelb 
J! of siifpense, yet also the dread tha 
§: intelligenc 
W ■ 
iki 
'liis 
>1. • 
( 95) 
intelligence would be only a confirmation of her Suspicion, kept her mind in a state of unspeakable anxiety. The following letter Showed how justly her opinions had been grounded. ^ 
J 
f 
1 
To 
I () 
i 7b E M I L I A. 
J ^ 
Too well, too fatally, am I con vinced of the light I must appear II !| to my Emilia. — My Silence has madi 
II you think I have forgotten you, tha 
; K your image is torn from my heart am 
lie fondville’s Solely planted there — no 
jib you wrong me if thus you conjecture 
il: the Severest conflict has tortured m) 
bosom, and I know not how to writs r to you. Why did either of us evei 
tl: See Henry — or why at So early a pe 
ij riod in life were we destined to S 
I if; - ’ 
I! cruel a trial! I must now confess t( 
I h you that his affections which I prize 
il above empires, above worlds, an 
mine. We are convinced that m) i! father and mother never would fusfci 
b this union — I See at that word th( 
ij; i rising tear in my emilia’s eye, and hei 
hand will tremble while stie holds th( I ' paper. — But to continue. To avoic 
II’ a refusal (of which we are well cony: 
vinced) he urves with that strenuou! 
i' ' 
I warmth which from him has but toe 
: LI H i 1 
if mud 
C ' „ ■ r. ' 
I ■ 1 
llr 
si' 
II b I, 
1' 
( 97) 
much power, a private marriage. — Certainly the duty I owe to too much revered parents forbid the idea — yet the relinquishing my own happiness a Sacrifice — oh, oh, Emilia! with what have I to combat, sensible as I am of obedience and friendship — your affection for Fondville is equal with my own — you have not had the same advantages of conquering as I have, by Seldom being in his company : I pity you — I feel for you, my injured friend — I also am to be pitied. I cannot bear a longer Separation : in a week at farthest 1 Shall expect you — hasten hasten to the arms of 
Louisa. 
Emilia knew not the trial which was prepared for her, and therefore came in a week as expected to her friend. She happened to arrive very late at night, when She concluded all the family were retired to rest. A Servant informed her at the gate that Emilia was up and waited in her chamber to receive her 3 but as She 
E was 
31 ( 98) 
Irvv'n' 
C u; 
I : I was palling through the great Fal 
what was not her emotions when h( Illi beloved Fondville She beheld! — tli 
j t ■' i '! 
C .agitation of meeting, and the idea ( 
|: r losing him, for ever, rushed Sb fbrcibl 
iji on her mind, that Spite of all the res 
I! lution whichilhis amiable unfortunat 
ijf I had been Summoning during her joui 
§7; ney, her sensations overpowered hei 
J:,; and fainting She had nearly sunk t 
hi: the ground had mot he raised an 
Jd clasped her in his arras : when Sh 
hi' opened .her eyes they met hisj — he 
IS face was “like colours o’er the morn 
'I' 
ing skies. Swift mantling to the view pi — covered with blushes : Henry preh 
Si ed her to his bosom, and felt th 
|jp. ' 
II ji throbbing heart of Emilia beating wit 
|| the moss violent pulsation. In saul 
li tering accents She astured him (with 
.! confusion, the Sure attendant of in 
h II ‘ ■ I ^ 
: f mocence unused to evasion) that th 
it' fatigue of the journey had quite over 
b came her. — “I will conduct you [lai 
I “he] to your friend’s apartment 
and taking the trembling hand C 
f;; : i Emilia in his, led her up the Slaii 
t; .' cafe 
‘b* 
III 
<11. 
■■ f ' 
isi; 
j( 
() 
cafe: She wondered as they went along at his conducting her, for the hour was So late, She concluded her friend was retiring to rest. Louisa met them at the door, they all enter ed her room, where a Scene of joy at meeting, a little aiieviated on one fide and mixed with anguishmn the part of the visttor, passed. “Emilia” -^ “Louisa— — all they could articulate' -- they were clasped in each 
other’s arms. -- - “What a picture of 
“friendstiip and how great are the “joys of meeting, ” said Fondville, whilst with a look of approbation and delight he gazed on the lovely girls. — The heart of Henry glowed with generous warmth — he bore a part in the feelings of his fellow-creatures. We have not particularly delineated his character 3 a very few words comprised it.. His Soul was filled with heroic virtue, every tender Sentiment for the distress of others, with a magnanimity added that defied the strokes of fortune, and when to this was added a form adorned with every grace, Say 
E 2 could 
|sl ( roo) 
III 
|ih' 
II could our heroines be blamed, — will 
ji:!, ^ ' 
11 Such Sufceptibility as theirs for lovint 
illji; him to a degree of enthusiasm. Hen; 
;! conceived that they might vrish tc 
C be left together, and when their sirsi 
ill transports were over,; retired. Emilia 
I now had leisure to observe that hei 
I ■ friend, far ftom being in a loose dishabille 
or thinking of going to rest, wail il frnartly equipped in a riding habit 
f; and her fille de chamber bustly emi 
ployed in ■ packing up jewels anc 
I clothes in frnall bundles. She gazec 
|| about with a look of astonishment 
iji: which louisa perceiving and perfects) 
jijj understanding, cautiousty Shut th( 
; |: door, and stealing across the room tell 
I II She Should be heard, destred her fhenc 
I; to follow, and both entering her clolel 
ii She Shut the door, and began as fbl 
'b' M ^ 
il lows: -- -- -- - “You wonder, no doubt 
fil; my Emilia, at the sttuation you Southeast( 
II ‘‘ rae in at this time of night; hoi 
i“ “I acquaint my ftiend that ir 
II “another hour I Shall be the wife o 
■ 'I : 
“Fondville” — [She took her hand — il' Emilia had burst into tears — it wai 
! 'fl; i ■ 
!■!" ar 
ibii 
jlh 
II II ' 
b: 
( 101) 
an effort of nature not to be repelled.] 
-- -- - “Say, my dearest, ” proceeded the 
other, “can you blame me — ask your “heart could you m the Same sttuation 
“relinquish him.’’ -- -- ‘‘trial alone 
“could demonstrate how I Should act, ” replied the other. — “But forgive me, 
“my dearest louisa -- -- -- how felji/h — 
“how despicable m\x^ I appear in your 
“eyes^from this weakness -- -- -- -- yoii 
will think I do not rejoice in youy “happiness.' — Ah, how does a mis“ “pasiion — not misplaced but ' “unhappy — make us stnk in every “other character! — but pardon me, 
“my louisa — asture yourself when “the first struggles are over and calm “reflection resumes her Seat, that “next to my own I glory in your “felicity: — But why [continued She “in a haughtier tone] was I asked to “be a witness to Such a Scene louisa balanced this objection by reminding her of a promise they had early made of being present at each other’s weddings, and telling her at the Same time She thought it would 
E 3 have 
/ 
i 
n ( loj) ^ 
S' ' 
have appeared ungenerous to condust it without her presence; she likewise ij informed her that she had overcome 
her filial Scruples, as She found her if parents intended her for an object to 
her very disagreeable. The ceremony || was to be performed in a vrood, a rei 
tired country road ran at the back of 
Hi it, bn which a chaise waited to conduct 
i i' * 
f Harry and his too happy louisa j and 
Ij Emilia refblving to Slay no longer than 
I to See the ceremony performed, quit 
[1 ted the closet and went down flairs to 
II desire her chaise to be brought round 
: ti to the Same road, determined to Set 
II off the moment they did, but pursue 
SK a different route. The genuineness 
i I of my tale needs not the romantic 
11 force of friendship. In Such improba 
II bilities Emilia would be represented 
I enjoying her friend’s happiness with 
fs out the Shadow of envy in order to 
exalt her character more. But such as I her dispositions were, I Shall lay them 
; j before the reader with proper reality, 
jlf From her infancy She had a strong af 
PI Section for Louisa, and placed in her an 
: | unlimited 
i!: ic 
I < 
I ... 
Jib 
ol; 
( 103) 
tiniimited confidence, which the other had reciprocally returned; but her affection for Harry vas of a more ex -- alted nature: above all women in the world She wifiled louisa blessed, but wished her blessed with any other object. — But to return After having given directions to her attendants She instinctively entered a parlour off the hall: She threw herself on a Sofa, and lost in thought, perceived not that Henry entered the room and Seated himself by her; he took her hand in his. He had heard her ordering the chair — “Emilia, (Said he) why will “you leave me at So critieal and So happy a juncture ?” At these words Fondville fixed the most dazzling and most penetrating eyes in the world on hers — he Seemed to read the Soul of Emilia, and this to her appeared the most awful moment of her life — the earnestness with which he gazed at her, with a sensibility that Seemed to know her feelings, cast a momentary gleam of happiness on her mind — a thrilling delight at Seeing him again 
E 4 was 
l( () 
I •; i i i. t " 
was as instantaneously checked by the idea of lostng him for ever : her Scrupulous delicacy represented the im. 
I propriety of thinking a moment of the 
: | man who was to be the husband of 
j;. I, 
II her friend : these ideas operated Ib 
|;! powerfully, stie half arose from her 
: Seat. “Where are you going ?” Said 
i ■ he with an expresstve look. The 
: j: J crystal tear stole down the pale cheek 
|!: pf Emilia — Fondville gazed at hei 
iij with the earnestness of restrained cn 
11; riostty; : = dhe wiped osf the pearly drop 
|; | I — She struggled nobly with a concern 
ini so improper to be Shown — — She ros 
I III fond went over to the window: h( 
; I; Saw She wished to be left alone, anc 
lii retired. A picture of Henry [a minia 
lijl I ture for the breast] lay on the table 
Illi and had been destgned by him for hii 
III I Louisa— — wretched ftiend Saw th( 
II !■' II ^ 
'precious resemblance — every featun il bore the strongest likeness — it was no 
to be withstood. Emilia killed thi 
III precious treasure, and tying it roum 
ji; her neck so as not to be Seen, place( 
|| the Smiling face next her heart, re 
I folvini 
h;; i: 
iii; 
I il ■i 
m.p.; 

■; II 
1! L 
(), 
/ 
Solving at the moment [a view to which She ever adhered] never to move it from that Spot. Lost in a lethargy of contemplation, She thought not of leaving the parlour until a Summons from her friend roused her to recollection — they were ready for their flight — a Search for the picture was made — it was not to be found —? no wonder — She stooped to artifice. — How are we humbled by prepossesfion I — She pretended not to have Seen it. — Harry led out louisa by a back door which conveyed them into a garden; Emilia followed; a faithful domestic attended with their luggage. When they had got to the end of the garden, a little wicker gate opened into the wood : louisa stopped — “I could wish “[Said She] — pardon my delay — I “wish [whilst a tear started from her “eye] to look back on the place of “my nativity.” She turned about and leaned between Harry and her friend : the moon Shone remarkably bright, every star glittered in the firmament, and the pale beams cast the 
E 5 most 
SI ( io) 
Mi 1 > ' 
!ii; 
||; 
ill: most beautiful reflection on the house; 
ijjbc ^ 7. 
i it was frnall and white. Surrounded 
IIL with trees, a flower garden before the 
|, i; door, at the foot of which a river 
I'' murmured, which forming broken 
jiji cascades and winding through the 
; iii wood, had a Sweet romantic effect 
I' Louisa for fbme time gazed in Silence 
i; and then turned to her ftiend. “See, 
|ij;; “[Said she] Emilia, how beautiful it 
; L '! looks — there I first drew mv breath 
'k'i • ^ 
n— — little in our own breasts can 
I we bear the conscioushefs of error! 
Si 
iil “— tho’ unseen but by you, I blush: 
: to look at it — when I think — per 
!!!| ‘‘‘ I may never more behold it — 
; i the Solemnity of the Scene and hour 
LI fills me with awe — I conceit the 
- t !!: ■ 
'' r ' • • 
; || very trembling of the poplars in 
|| the wood as upbraidings. — My pa 
I ** rents in the arms of Sleep know nol 
if! that their child -- -- -- oh!! 
- i fj; ' 
||| “Fondville, must not such a stef 
I ‘‘ lesien me even in thy eyes 
Ill Never, my louisa, [replied he] — 
III but dwell not on this Scene — haster 
I I beseech you lest we Should b( 
Ilf “mislec 
'i i,. - 
b ij ' L h 
il ^ 
If ^ 
■!. II 
( 107) 
misted in the house.” He led th reluctant yet happy louisa into the wood; Emilia followed, who had by this time exerted a noble resolution. She did not indeed put on the artificial air of happiness — She rose Superior to Such a conduct, but appeared calm, tranquil and resigned. When they had reached the middle of the wood,, they stopped, a clergyman waited and the ceremony was performed. The interwining branches of the trees formed a kind of arbour where they flood, 'the moon peeping through, a witness to the happy union. When the ceremony was over, a band of wind inflruments struck up in the wood. louisa loved music, and Harry had placed him there. The groves being thick and of prodigious extent,, they wmre at too great a distance frorn the house [or any other] and the Sound of the instruments [being few] so very Soft, that they did not from this in the least fear a detection. They hastened forward, until they reached the gate that led to the road j there. 
the ‘ 
il ( io ') 
if;; !-; I 
the two chaises and all their Servants Waited : here Louisa and Henry re pi urged their Suit, that Emilia would 
i accompany them 5 She would not 
p; |: however comply, and wishing her 
iil I every happiness, or rather the conti 
l nuance of So Sweet a prospect, took 
leave of her earliest friend : Fondville il 1 took her hand to put her into the 
carriage — She was buried in reflection, Mill and from her inattention her foot 
ijj;; ^ 
“ill Slipped ftom the stepj She fell awk 
j wardly ftom that on the ground, Spite 
J' of harry’s efforts to Save her, and 
it the force loosening the picture which 
had not in her confusion been tied 11 Sufficiently fast round her neck, it fell 
from her bosom to the earth : — those 
iii 
only who have sensibility like her, can 
I [1 know what She at that moment felt — 
ii and whilst a train of the most excru 
1‘ii ' • • 
II piating and confufing ideas rushed on 
m her mind. She Snatched it ftom the 
; I' I * ' 
if ground and hurried into the chaise — ■ 
ll Harry bid her adieu — She waved her 
It hand, unable to turn her crimsbn face 
it!.': 
I bedewed with tears to Tis. By the 
’ time 
'iki i ll! i'' 
lb ■ 

i II ■' 
. I;.; 
'lily 
jlt' 
H tel • 
( ro) 
y 
time the Servant had Shut the door, he had handed louisa into the other chaise and stepped in himself, So that at the Same instant they both Set off, though they pursued very different routes. 
Alone and at liberty to indulge her grief, what luxury of anguish did the unfortunate Emilia now give loose to! 
A slight view of her Situation to Some might appear not So miserable, and thelosing the object: of her affections, far from unprecedented, an event but too oftencthe cafe with her Sex. But in her Situation there was Something uncommonly affecting, her friend conceiving an attachment for the Same person and becoming his wife — add to which, her gentle bosom was tortured with remorse : she regretted her want of command of herself in not appearing cheerful on the happiest moment of her louisa’s life; nor could she bear to look back on letting Fondville, » 
see her weakness by her fainting in 
the great hall -- her tears — the fixed 
dejection of her countenance — and 
above 
. - ' 
Ilj ( iiq X 
* V 
ii; above all, the picture— — it drop 
|| as She fell frorri the step, it unfbr 
il!; tunately lay with the. painting up!' 
!' he was drawn in regimen 
liii tals which could not easily be mistaken, 
and all by the moonlight Shone !'|! distinctly, therefore She could not flat 
LI ter herself with the idea of itstemain 
j!; j) i ■ ■ ' 
fc ing by him unseen. “Notwithstand 
jc “ing the precipitation with which I 
ii“ “it (Said She to herself) 
111 “fondviileotz^//have Seen it — 1 Saw 
L 1| “his penetrating eyes dart to the 
n: || “ground; and oh! in what a conii; 
| “temptuous light must that woman 
ll'if “appear, who conceives, a regard 
j“ “a man, without his having a 
jil “reciprocal one — what muji he think! 
II “to take his dear resemblance in the 
II h' ' ' 
||! “hour which cut off all hope of 
II ‘‘ ever being his. — Wretched, wretch 
III “ed Emilia I what will louisa — what 
illjt; “will Henry think of thee! — thy 
11 “ftiend must conceive thee ungene 
tlib rous and romantic, her husband the 
j I jd;. 
ii“ “of thy Sex.” — Such were her 
I reflections. — Stoics, philosbphers, may 
Iff reasbn 
■ 
hrc 
'e.... 
II; ■ 
cb's » 
Miliiii 
( III) 
■ reason — but a frame of mind like emilia’s was truly pitiable — who looked back with anguish and regret, viewed the present as the critical moment of her life, and had not a gleam of joy to enliven the dreary future. — Thus for a while Shall I leave one of our heroines, and now proceed to the other, — the happy other. Yet to Show that human felicity cannot be perfect:, that it must have its alloys, louifa’s was embittered by having left her father and mother; notwithstanding they had resolved to force her into another union. She could not reconcile her own conduct; the friend of her youth She had rendered wretched; not that She could entirely blame herself there, for as She often told Emilia, had She relinquished him he might not have thought of her, and then the Sacrifice would have been useless. As for the sweet Harry, his penetration Saw into emilia’s Soul; he instantly knew the picture when it dropped; it filled him with a thousand new and strange ideas 5 but he hoped in all he 
conjectured 
> J 
it ' ( ” 2) 
|||. 
I conjectured he might be mistaken, and 
; | was So ingrofied by his beloved louisa 
I II and recent union, that he banished the 
recollection of her ftiend from his |ji|l mind. About funrise they arrived at 
pjl his father’s, where they were received 
Iili in the most affectionate manner. — 
Harry was their favourite fbn, his choice must therefore be admired, 
b ' i! ■^ 
land how were they struck with ad; 
; miration and .delight on sight of the 
I beautiful louisa. 
i Emilia (for we must return to her) 
[r; ’ arrived at home still more melancholy 
Iithan She had left it: — Aster pasfing a i: week in meditation. She finally rei 
Solved to pass the remainder of her 
is days in a convent. She then wrote a 
II lof^g letter to louisa, in which She gave 
i: all her reafbns for this determination. 
ISLE penned this epistle with refolu 
ill tion : — took an affecting and as She 
IS thought an eternal leave of her stiend. 
i— — was deeply touched on peru 
Ii;;, this letter, but in order to raise 
III the other’s Spirits, judiciousty return 
llip' ed a cheerful answer, in which She 
il,, 
lis:; 
♦ 41/ 
W' 
'i 
'U I 
( II) 
earnestly entreated She would give over her design, — represented (though iil the mean it was not her opinion) that there were other men every way as amiable as Henry, and told her he had a brother who she had heard was the image of himself, and equally deserving, the eldest Son of the family, and that this young gentleman was on his travels J She concluded with requesting that She would at least delay the execution of her purpose until his return : he waa expected in six months; it could make no great difference with Emilia, and She resolved to postpone entering the cloister. 
We have not in our history Said much of Harry fondville’s Sentiments all this time — before he went abroad with his regiment, he had Seldom been in company (though acquainted with 'Emilia:) he always admired her. She was quite the kind of beauty that pleased his taste, and he was Senstble of her refinement. Sentiment and elegance : her family and fortune claimed an exalted connexion j but hurried from 
one 
i () 
one Scene to another;, and then ordered abroad J when hmreturned, hearing I She was removed to the country, all 
fatally contributed for her, and he II Seldom Suffered himself to think of 
her: then being: asked to louila’s s father, left an. opportunity not’ to be 
resisted; — louisa was a beautiful, a charming girl j her vivacity delighted him. She: always conquered at a blow, whilst her friend won on you by degrees. But at the wedding, the Scenes 
that passed respecting the picture and the interview in the parlour, left a j I, dangerous impresiion on the mind of 
I I our hero j he strove to banish the 
||; | idea, and for Several months after his 
I; marriage,. Succeeded tolerably well, 
ill The parents of, louisa would never 
y see her or forgive the step She had 
; |: taken, and her regret at this may be 
ijb eastly conceived Old Mr. and Mrs. 
Ijl Fondville treated her indeed as their 
blli'v 
own child, and made her Some amends. !S After passtng fbme time with them, 
Harry proposed taking a house in the N capital of the kingdom, for naturally 
ii.. 
.... 

^ fb 
C it 
L ?’»• 
'5-., jt ‘*111. I; 
( *' 5) 
gay, lively, and fond of pleasure, he was tired of residing in the country. But instead of time effacing, it hourly brought back to his mind the reco llec tion of Emilia and her conduct. When Suspicion is avrakened, a thousand concurring incidents add to the great point; — that louisa loved him he was perfectly convinced, but her friend’s affection was, he fancied, greater. “Lou“ “indeed married me without the “approbation of her friends, — but “Emilia no doubt would have done “the same : her taking the picture at So critical a period; — her tears, her “anguish, her Sweet confuston. Shows “her affection to be such— — were his opinions, and communicated in those words in a letter to a friend; it lay open in his room by accident: his louisa Seeing the name of Emilia often dispersed through the letter, gratified a fatal curiosity by perusing it. — “And are Such thy Sentiments, “Fondville, ” (Said Sire to herself) when She had finished it. louisa had all that command So proper for a wife 
in 
It () 
• h.d 
4: ' in her Situation; — She resolved bj 
I jealousy if poslible to touch his heart 
is or at least to recall those affections Sh( 
nattered herself She once possesied ■;, With this destgn, louisa in all this' 
lustre of her charms j hardly yet six 
teen, commenced a life very disteren L ftom any She had yet experiencedi 
Shc was to be Seen in every pubti place, — and stew from reflection a the Demon that haunted her j he mind was never Suffered to dwell, i was hurried from one Scene to another ii— — masque of cheerfulness cor 
ig cealed that her Senstbility was deeps 
touched, and in the whirl of dislipa 
M'di' A 
II tion Mrs. Fondville was the gayef 
i! ’ the most animated : She was constdere 
.1;; 
j if as one the most beautiful women i 
I; town, and of course the object of a 
llf tention to the men. — If She only stej 
11 ped to her carriage, a beau at eac 
III stde was ready to hand her in, — in pul 
l! lie She was perpetually attended will 
ft them, — she had naturally a little of tl 
H coquette in her difposttion, — a point 
view like hers required the exertion 
jjlt; ' eve 
SP 
'‘vmi' 
( 117) 
every talent, and this also was called forth: her vivacity, genius, understanding and education made her appear in every character as in her natural one. Tut neither the jealousy nor Surprise of Harry was excited at his wife’s conduct, — her being charmed with enjoyments to which She had been unused, (owing to her youth) he considered as the natural effect on a lively imagination : her Setting herself out for admiration though married, and allowing herself the privilege of flirting,, was not So much to be wondered at in a wife of Sixteen, and a husband of two and twenty could Scarce be very rigid: hut louisa and Fondville were in everything almost exceptions to general rules, for their fenje and fentiinent made them at that age more capable of conducting themselves through life with propriety, than many at double the period: Henry had a penetration that Saw into everything, and therefore rested astured of being the first in louifa’s heart j jealousy was of course a stranger 
to 
♦ 
( 
t 
I ( 1^8 ] 
■ ’ I 
to her breast, for the attention il received from other gentlemen, h being constantly admired, indeed tl general object; of adoration, he coi lidered only as the tribute due to h j: charms, and rose Superior (from h 
i: gay behaviour) to mean Suspicion i 
the honour of a woman whose mir was the receptacle of virtue in ever sense of the word. — Thus a ye; passed away, about the close of which Mrs. Fondville was delivered of daughter; it was placed at nurse vei near where Emilia restded, of whoi we have been for Some time Silen Emilia, — the unfortunate Emilia, froi M her exquistte Senstbility, her weaknes 
call it which you will, — still languilhe in a hopeless passton, rejecting th numerous offers She received, an waiting impatiently to see the broth of our hero. — Six months more pasle ' on, at the expiration of which pcrio 
the expected youth vistted his riativ country, but accompanied by an Italia; lady to whom he had united himfelf. emilia, tired of the world, refblved t 
b 
ti 
1 
h 
.1 
( ” 9) 
iie in a great measure feclufied Tmor vit, by instantly "entering the cloister; the year and a half that had elapsed Since her friend’s marriage she constder ed as So many precious hours of her ■life lost. — A personal farewell of louisa was a ceremony She knew herself incapable of performing, but wrote to her as follows : 
“Again I take up my pen to bid a “Raft adieu to ray earliest friend. — fate, ray louisa has doomed me for “a convent. — Mr. Fondville is return“ “but returned already married. “— Adieu then dearest louisa, may “you — may your Henry be happy, — “will be the prayer every returning “Sun of thy Emilia.” 
Constantia (that was the name of louisa’s infant) was sttuated we have said near Emilia; She often vistted it, it bore a strong likeness of its beauteous father, and this was enough for 
* o 
this fair infatuated. — She formed a design equally strange and romantic — to steal the child. — disstculties are nothing when we have a stratagem on 
which 
\ 
( 120) 
which we are determined. All her Servants were disinissed, owing to the life She was about to lead, except two, one her own maid, the other She resolved Should answer as a nurse to the ^ child; oh the fidelity of these two domestics 
file knew stie could depend, and contrived when the infant’s real nurse happened to be a few moments absent and the rest of the family out, one of her maids stole in, whipped out the little treasure, and covering it up hastened with it to Emilia, who that very day Set off. — The cloister She arrived at was in a different kingdom, which prevented any vistts from the f : fondville’s, and the whole affair was 
So conducted, that Spite of advertise i ments, rewards ostered and strict 
ri Searches by the parents, they never 
could discover what became of it. 
"' I 
Emilia felt for their distress, but con ti ceived So youngct couple would have 
many more children, and that therefore the loss of one daughter would not be so great. Emilia was too rational to be capable of receiving any 
delight 
J 
'1 
( II) 
delight from an infant; it was to future days She looked forward for reeeiving pleasure from the child of the two people on earth She had loved best. — The child and her nurse were placed as near the convent as possible;; vv’as passed as her niece, and visited her evety day at the grate. She entered immediately on her noviciate, and when the year was expired took the vows — in the bloom of life, not yet eighteen, Emilia was the loveliest nun that ever wore the veil. We will now return to the fondville’s: — they regretted at first the loss of Constantia, but her remembrance every day faded 
on their minds. -- A woman knows 
not, when She enters into the Spirit of a character wtich She fancies She can, like a masqne, throw off at pleasure, that perhaps that is the Sphere nature had formed her, I mean her dispositions for, — and this was the cafe with louisa: the pretended wmman of fashion Scon Sunk into the real one: — thus we deceive ourselves! how easily are we entangled in a Scheme, and 
F how 
t 122; 
! / I 
'., t 
; ’,; i 
how very hard do we find it to escape! — meanwhile the purpose of the plot turned out unpropitious; it neither awakened the affections nor roused the jealousy of Harry, who was like the I amiable husband in appearance and 
I the man of pleasure j he treated Louila 
i with affectionate regard, partly that 
kind of regard which, as Doricourt Says in the play, “his own honour Secnr “ed her.” — — But as days Succeeded days he. grew tired of the disfipated life She led— — “(Said he to “himself) cannot love me with that “fervent, that sweet constancy of affection, which I once flattered il myself She would, — else by a whirl 
“of fashionable pleasures She would 
** not entirely feciude herself ftom my 
“Society.” — Fondville himselst gay, thoughtless and wild, had generosity S enough to allow for others — to allow 
C for a wife’s leading the Same life as 
I, her husband, nor was it his wish that 
She Should not make a figure in the world, but he was only mortified at j her total neglect of him and familiarity 
: t. * wist 
. J" 
Vi 
■ 
: ^ 
vii: : ■■ 
!; ’. 
'„ir V ■ 
. 
( 123) 
with every impertinent coxcomb of her acquaintance, — he Saw there was little prospect: of leading her out of a Scene which appeared So captivating to her; She was drawn in female coteries with ladies of the first fashion, and engaged by them in a perpetual round of diversions; Harry himself was Situate nearly in the Same manner, but that men can more easily withdraw when possessed of a discernment to See their errors, — he was engaged. at clubs, no public place was hallowed from his feet, which generally conducted him as the last Scene to the hazard table : — here however he was Seldom unsuccessful; he had a great, though gentlemanlike knowledge of gaming •, no real passion for the de sfructive amusement, and a command of himself that prevented his ever exceeding the bounds of his fortune. louisa Saw too late that her project had no effect, — and was convinced that Emilia had the affections of her Fondville, — the best method therefore file conceived of diverting her own 
F 2 chagrin 
1 
i ii ^ / \ 

. chagrin was by dislipation, — and did i|j ■ not conceive it hurt him; her stir tall tion (though a dangerous and im 
jt proper step, which Seldom Succeeds in 
I" an end proposed like hers) was Still 
it kept up to awaken in him the tender 
, j feelings he had for her before She was 
his wife. — One night as they were I both drefsed for a ball, he gently remonstrated 
on the gay life She led. — i “My dear Fondville (Said She, turning 
I ‘cto the glass and adjusting her 
I ‘‘ feathers) did not you lead me to the 
j “stage by bringing me to the capital? 
I “had you not, I Should have remain 
I “ed tranquil and happy in a country 
“way at your Fathers.” — He was j stlent, and could pot but allow the 
I,. justness of the charge. -- -- -- -- -- Thus 
I another year rolled on, during which 
thcte was no alteration on she bei 
haviour of either parties, — her conii 
tinuation of gaiety and the unabated 
I attentions of elegant young men, 
roused at last the jealousy of Harry; 
I Such an adherence in her conduct was 
II not to be excused, but instead of 
ilj,, awakening 
ill 
UJ, 
I i / ' 
lik 
L 
k -- 
C 125:) 
awakening those aifections with which the innocent’ louisa flattered herself, called forth in his bosom contempt in room of indifference. One evening louisa told him She was going to a party, and left him with Some gentlemen in the dining parlour, but they from, different engagements taking leave of Henry, he Soon after strolled into the garden, they then loved being in the Summer season at a little dis 
I 
tance from the capital., It was moonlight, and he strolled to the end of the walk; another garden more extensive than that joined it, he entered it also, resolving to go to a moss house which w’as placed at one corner to indulge himself there in contemplation; from the winding alleys he took he happened to come at the back of the moss house; and stood a few moments still to admire the beauty of the Scene; it was Sliaded round with poplars that trembled with the evening breeze, and open only at the front to Show a fountain that played in the oppostte part of the garden and the enamelled banks of 
F 3 flowers 
jili ( 126) 
liiii, V I 
iiii 1' 
1 
tiji 
ll flovrers between. He was lost in ad 
i: miration of the Scene for fbme minutes, 
I until his senses were roused by broken 
^.| Sobs and accents that seemed to issue; 
; from the mofs house: he hurried 
I 1 i’ ' ^ 
ji! liirough the wilderness behind, and 
'll coming to the ftont, what was not 
I his Surprise to See louisa sitting 
|| bathed in tears, and an officer kneel 
ling by her, his head reclined in her 
II lap. So that his face could not be dis 
il; i cerned. — Fondville could not with 
II iland the violence of his emotions, — 
II, he may — he will be blamed by philosb 
i pliers, but he could not command 
J: himself, and before his rival or the to 
Jfi all appearance guilty Louisa favi 
III Henry, he drew his sword and ran il 
; j through the Side as he imagined of his 
ill rival. — louisa Shrieked and exclaim 
T.! ' 1 
Illi ed, “Fondville, you have killed mj 
l“ “-- -- -- but sty — sty [proceed 
||| - “she] thy life is still dear to th) 
III “injured wife.” — The wounded office 
jll fell groaning on the floor, — whil 
j Henry stood petrified with astonish 
III ment, Louisa fainted and sunk besid 
11 hi i 1 • 
jlij hin 
'ill 
liih 
il 
( 127) 
him— — did not raise her, — a thousand ideas rushed confusedly on his brain; he was frantic. — Great Heaven, Said he, is this a pretence of louisa in palling this man for her brother, or is it really So, and have I afsasiinated him! — He came over and raised the youth, who though pale, bloody, and ' almost lifeless, he discovered by the moonlight was the brother of his wife. Of this gentleman we have hitherto been stlent in our history; he was indeed the brother of louisa, but Some years older j his name was Hortenstus, and the uncommonly vicious life he had led made him justly despifed by his family: for Some unparalleled steps he had taken, his Sather and mother refused to see him, and Settling on him a Small patrimony, resolved to have no further connexions with him j then determining as their fortune was in their power, to make Louisa Sole heiress of their pofsesstons, but She disobliging them in her privafoalliance, a new will was made in which everything but a little addition to the son’s 
F 4 annuity 
'( 128) 
!i. 
annuity was bequeathed to the charitable institutions and hospitals of the kingdom : thus were they at war with their children. 
hortenfius’s demands for money being much more than his little allowance Supplied, which was not indeed much more than Supplied the necessaries of life, often reduced him to the most painful exigencies, — a Severe fit of stcknefs not a little contributed to this, and nearly brought him to a deathbed repentance, — Senstble of his past misconduct, and laying out himself for amendment, whilst almost destitute of Support on his recovery, he wrote to his Sister, — (a stster who Spite of his irregularities, dearly loved him and had often interceded for him,) to beg She would once more be a mediator, assure his parents of his return to virtue, and beseeeh them to relieve his present .distress— — entirely estranged from his family, he knew not of her union, and was surprised to See her answer stgned by a northeast;; the purport of it was, — “Thai 
“th( 
: : HS 
vi ■ 
( ] 
the time had now ceased when She “could plead for him, — they would 
not countenance her either for “having married a person they did “not approve, but if he would come “to her She would be a kind Sister, 
“and in the hope of his amendment, 
“contribute to his relief.” — He came, but Louisa knew that her Fondville had ever expressed a distike to this young gentleman ffdm his past misconduct,, conceived his reformation only pretended, and treated him in his own opinion as a worthless impostor, destring his wife to give him a Small Sum, but on no account to See him, as it would encourage eternal applications. — This would have been the right method of acting and Saved the fatal catastrophe that ensuedj — but a woman’s weakness, a stster’s fond ness, overbalanced ' the Scale, — She resolved, in the Supposttion of her husband’s not finding it out and the real innocence of the action, to See her ~ brother. — But a woman can never depend on her hushand’s ignorance of ' 
F. 5 her i 
I 130; 
Sib: 
lilil 
ll her conduct, — no more than a man 
can of a wife’s obedience to his will who marries contrary to her ftiends, approbation; She that deviates in one duty cannot be fupposed to be very I steadfast in another, So far I mean as 
gratifying herself in everything coin fislent with her honour. — But to proceed:, She at the earnest Solicitation of Hortenstus contented to meet him that night in the moss house, She was. there before him, and having a key for each garden herself let him in, they S had just met, a repentant brother had 
but just kneeled to asture a stster of his amendment, — when Fondville tushed upon them; we now go back to that action:. Harry brought louisa to her teat, and gave her a little water from the fountain, — when She opened her eyes again and Saw her husband, She beseeched him to sty — but he was deaf to her entreaties, - — his own honour Secured him. Hortenstus and his stster were carried into the houfej whilst poor Fondville followed stupi fesd. with astonishment. — The next 
dav 
‘j ' 
..i. 
. 
'ii 
1 : 'i( 
() 
day the affair became public, and he got bail. — The best Surgeons were brought to Hortenstus, who pronounced his life in a very doubtful Slate. — louifa’s constitution though naturally good, had been constderably impaired by her irregular hours; her inward disappointment in the affections of her husband, for Whom She had forfeited 
f 
her parents’ love; all added to the great Shock of nearly murdering her brother, was too much for her to bear,, a nervous fever was the consequence.. — It is hardly posstble through such a Scene to describe the mind of Fondville, a mind at all times replete with; Senstbility. “Should Hortenstus die, “[Said he to himself] an ignominous “death awaits me — Should he recover,, “I only live to continual repentance, “to be a Subject of public observa“ “— louisa’s fever was stow and had several relapses. Hortenstus was at last out of danger, and'shortly after the trial came on — Fondville was acquitted; — but could a tribunal acquit him, of the anguish of his own mind! — 
3. 
''•s. 
»32) 
j|j; || I 
III a moment’s rashnes?had laid up a store 
II of repentance, had for ever blasted his 
’ll domestic happiness— — fever 
|||| the phystcians pronouneed at last at a 
III crists — an awful one. — She requested 
Ij to See her father and mother before her 
‘ h j • ' 
j! last moments approached — they came 
||! to her, - — I wish I could draw a veil to 
11 conceal so affecting a Scene. — louisa 
il. in. the bloom of life, a candidate for 
II death — pale, emaciated, worn out with 
|| a lingering disorder, which promised a 
il Speedy diffblution; Supported in her 
ll bed to take — to bid — a last adieu to 
I ' all her dearest relations, — what mufti 

t have been the emotions of the wretched 
parents! — they had not Seen her .Since her.marriage. They now behold 
I her on the verge of the grave. -- -- The 
I gay, the animated, the once charming 
I Harry Fondville kneeled at the foot of 
her bed. — hortensius was in one 
II corner of the room — struck with her 
> 
altered countenance, her parents at I approaching towards her, exclaimed 
I i “Is this our daughter?” — “Yes repli 
I ed She] thy long estranged child, — 
“i ■' “let 
i - 
i 
il I 
] I -- 
J ‘ 
J i 
1, | if! 
LI 
J J / 
I) 
I ^ 
L - * 
( u3) 
let me receive your forgiveness” — [after they had sat down by her, She proceeded thus] “you See a child be“ “you who never but in one “action disobliged you j — that was ‘‘ the leading step to my future life — 
“and the happiness I enjoyed I could “never say was perfect j my deviation “from duty was an obstacle to felicity, 
“and Some other circumstances re“ “to a friend wtich for her “sake I do not wisti to mention. — 
“I beseech it of you. to look once “mot; e on Hortenstus as your Son, and 
“to let not the recollection of a 
\ 
“daughter ever embitter your days.” 
— She made a motion for Henry to advance — he did. — “Fondville, [Said “She] be assured of my forgiveness“ 
“even unto death of a love the “most ardent: my dissipation, my “follies led you into a train of re“ “on my conduct which ^, “naturally awakened Suspicion;; — “disobliged, I Saw my brother con“ “to your wishes, and that oc ‘‘ castoned the unhappy event — were 
“it 
( u > 
, 
r.. 
** it not fti11 for your Sake, I have no “wilh for life. My friend, my bell “beloved Emilia, is Secluded froii] “the world— — little Constantia 
lost -- -- can I have a wish for life!” 
louisa embraced her weeping Fondville, and again besought her parents’ forgiveness J took leave of hortensius and in a few hours after expired in henry’s arms. 
Thus lived, thus died the amiable, the beautiful louisa! I will not attempt to describe the mind of our he j - ro J it must be doing an injustice tt 
the original. Emilia [for we will no’w .y go back to her] was inconceivabl} 
f ll grieved at hearing of louisa’s death 
;; : i and reproached herself more than ona 
: for having stolen the child, lest tha’ 
Should have preyed on her ftiend’ 
J:. Spirits j meanwhile Constantia was hei 
only delight, and promised to be eves; i ry thing the fond wisties of Emili( 
r • foretold. 
i ' ^ The parents of louisa took Horten 
i stus again to favour; and Fondville 
r tired of the world, knew not when 
i u 
‘.'b;; 
'i' S' S ' ' 
f I 
s.ssshsi ' 
1 pv.: [ 
; 
si' h'' ’ -- -'' : ^ 
( 135 1 
to turn him : he had lost that inward peace, which only can make us happy;, he accused himself entirely for the death of his wife, and resolved to feciude himself almost entirely from Society with this view he took a Small house in a Sequestered sttuation near that convent, that very convent where Emilia had placed herself. He was ignorant however of that circum stance, and chose his retirement merely accidentally. He Saw little or no company, and pasted the prime of his life in Solitude and repentance. Fondville tore himself from a world which nature had formed him to ornament he tore himself at leafffrom the Society of it.. Emilia in the exercise of her devotions and iq the care of her treasure, pasted her i|ays. in tolerable tranquillity. Thus years elapsed until Constantia attainea her stxteenth year, and joined every persohal attraction to every inward, perfection and aecom plishment.. Emilia called her by a different name from her real one, and the girli believed herself to be the 
niece 
II, ^ ' ( «3 “) 
niece of her patroness. Conflanti; was Seldom permitted to stray out o the convent gardens, in her walks, h 1 the desire of Emilia, but one day lb 
“ll exceeded those bounds: curiosity k 
her into a domain not far from th 
I 
II cloister, and me rambled througl 
wild stirubberies, plantations and lit tie woods, unmindful of the dange 
I She ran j at last She came to a canal 
and stood on the banks viewing he own image restected on its glasty fur face, when her bouquet happening t fall into the water, floated on the fur face; it was composed of beautih jil and uncommon flowers: She stoope 
I to lift it, and the bank being Slipper] 
I Sire fell into the water. Constanti 
1|| Screamed — it was very deep, and ll: 
ilj felt her danger, when a gentleman ra 
ill out from a Temple near her, an 
III plunging into the canal, with dishcu 
III, ty Saved her life. When he place 
I her on the bank again. She thanke 
her deliverer in the warmest term 
'
and hastened back to the monaslr K where She acquainted her fuppok 
I 
Iii 
I I 
ipi i i 8 
llr? S 
Im* bi ^ 
( 137) 
aunt with her adventure: a dreadful fever Soon after broke out in the convent, Emilia was Seized with it, and in a fev/ days after found her last moments approaching. She called Con slantia to her bed fide, and addressed her thus; “You See before you,, my “dear, a person whom you confider ‘‘ as an aunt, hut now I must inform “you I am no relation. You are the “child of a man who I loved dearer ‘‘ than existence, and a woman [Since “deceased] who was my earliest “friend. Mr. Fondville [that was “his name] preferring your mother to “me, made me take the veiland as “one only comfort, added to your likeness to him, I stole you Con“ “and was able to elude the “vigilance of Search.” After this Sue said down plans of future life for her, gave jier letters to Send relations and astert her birth after her death, and lastly of all presented the picture of Harry; Constantia Screamed on 
beholding it -- -- - “’tis he, [Said she“ 
“Saved my life.” “I was struck 
with 
« 
S ( 138) 
iict; j 
f \ 
a reverential awe the momen “I beheld him, ” proceeded She — “’ti “himself— — has Since that wa “done worn out those animated traits; “but Still that face, — that benigi 
“look is the fame.” Lost in wonde I at these words, emilia’s tongue reful 
ed utterance for fbme moments, an I in the interval a nun entered the roor 
te; and told her that a gentleman at th 
grate wished to see her. Emilia wh I had always kept the Secret of wk 
convent She had retired to inviolabl( I i could not imagine who this visitor wa 
|! but unable to rise herself, Sent dow 
Constantia, who entering the parson 
I f Screamed at beholding her preserve 
I — her newly discovered father at tl 
i grate. She ran up again to her beir 
; | factrefs — “Oh, Madam, Madam, th 
II “is Mr. Fondville.” Emilia oste 
te fainted at this intelligence, and h( 
■j S attendants feared She would go off i 
I'r diiif! o 
III one of the fits : when She was recc 
i|'llil — 
fsi,. vered, She asked what was become ( 
II him, and was told he still waited. SI 
II insisted on being taken up -- -- -- -- -- -- -- tl: 
Nlf “han 
r L' 
'-■ 
ctl'hli!' 
■ ' m ■ 
i;; 
I. » 
'■ V '! ~ i Jr,;. 
: ■' il '■ 
! h»!‘ 
1. f 
ist c • ■' ■. 
( 139) 
“hand of death [Said file] is already “Sfretched outj — before lam Snatch“ “let me again be blessed with a “Sight of him, let me restore a long“ “child, and implore his pardon. “My senses Heaven has pleased to “Spare me for this last trial.” She insisted on being raised, and was carried down to the grate. Her once beauteous Sace was too well engraved on the heart of our hero not to make him remember her, tho’ age had faded and stcknefs had expelled those charms I will not recite the particulars of their conversation— — acquainted each other without palliation or disguise with everything that happened during a Separation of stxteen years; he told her that tho’ he lived so near, he knew not that She lived in that convent, until accidentally by means of a relation of hers he discovered it that very day : amongst the misfortunes of his life which he recited to her, he mentioned the loss of his daughter. “Stay for a few moments, ” Said stie, and going into an adjoining room, led 
out 
!|! ( IO)) 

i i 
jj; out Constantia by the hand: “here, 
I “Fondville, [Said She] is that daugh 
i' “ter whose loss you lament, forgive 
ill ^, J * ^ 
“me for havirig stolen her; this let jj “ter [putting one through the grate 
ilij “into his hand] will acquaint you 
II with my intentions regarding her, 
11 ' “She Shall now be instantly restored 
ill to you i I never meant She Should 
l' ' “the veil, but only placed her 
|! “as a boarder in the cloysler; Fare! 
||! the period is at hand which 
I; “divides us — Fondville, once more 
SI “farewell.” Emilia fainted j talking 
'I had overpowered her, and She. was 
conveyed out of the parlour. Con i stantia She refblved Should not be 
o': ■ 
affected by beholding in her the strug |i gles of death, and therefore embracing 
the dear girl for the laji, time. Sent hei I to her fathers Emilia Shut herself ui 
with the priest in her confosiional, anc 
i was afterwards carried to her bed anc 
Shortly after expired. 
5 Harry and his daughter went home 
but Sent repeated mesiages to th cloister, and when informed She wa 
■'■'I ’ ^ 
, 11 ■ 
II 
!r 
II 
ns 
■'jc. 
h.', 
'I.: 
. II ' 
( ii ') 
no more, gave up to unrestrained grief j he opened the letter which She had given him, [and had long had it wrote by her that it might at her dis folution be Sent him : ] his picture was indofed, and Since death would have closed her eyes by the time he read it, she there in the most delicate manner afsured him of the affection She had entertairsed for him, which made her take thc^ veil. Her fortune which was large, before She had retired from the world She had fettled the principal part of on Constantia, and the remainder on the convent. She asrured him also of her intention of restoring the child to the family at her death or when the young lady became of age. Fondville and his daughter regretted her death beyond measure, and the amiable Constantia ever retained the most lively gratitude for the education file had bestowed on her and those precepts which She had early given her. Shis young Lady in her mother and in her patroness had an example of the impropriety of indulging an early attachment. 
(_ 
142 } 
: tachment. Had Emilia or louisa been 
possessed of less sensibility, or had they strove to Surmount their passion, each might have met with men who would have made them happy, tho’ not perhaps in that romantic degree to which their ideas Soared. The one I by her marriage, the other by her retirement 
equally disobliged their families, and each died at an early age, 
disappointed in their expectations of felicity. louisa was ever tenderly : regretted, and her memory held dear 
5 by all who knew her, and every nun 
in the convent lamented Emilia: her amiable disposttions, her pious zeal, I that unaffected devotion which she 
had ever Showed, and a cheerful performance of her duty, a circumstance not always the cafe with So young a i: | religious, made her universally ador 
I ed, and it was always their wish that 
I her bright example might guide their 
steps through life. 
‘ II ■ 
f END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 
In 
i • 

ite, : 
r ■ 
!' V 
• V 
j _ 
1 - 
♦ S X 
si 
~ ■ 
i 
N 
.y 
.1 
t 
>., r * 
i •» 
■ — 'n 
/ 
* • » 
i ^ ' • 
h ', 
i / 
'•. ' / 

< 
I • 
t 
t 
I! I 
i ‘ 
1! •. - ■ i > 
i j. ^ 
I 
i, 
/ 
I 
'■ ' 
1 I 
; 
I i ■ ' 
! 
i 
V 
I 
■\ 
t « 
! * 
i 
I 
i % 
I 
I 
I / 
i 
I 
■ i 
/ 
/ 
1 
\ 
I 
i 
j 
fi 
II 
t 
! > 
i II : 
: *! I i 
II 
! 
1 I 
t! 
'
> 1 
II 
i 
I! ' ■ 
( j i 
f 
I: 
b 
1! 
S 
i 
I 
\ 
! 
V 
1 
I 
CAROLINE: i 
, i 
1 
< 1 
J 
i 
O R, T H E i 
i 
1 
II I S T O R Y O F! 
1 
Miss SEDLEY. 
'■ ' ' “^ — — ‘****^^''* — TT— — — rv 
O I IT. ^ 
LETTER XVII 
'i 
THE HON. CAPT. BELFORD TO SIR EDWARD HAVILAND. BART. 
Mountford Abbey. 
Poor miss Harleyl — indeed Edward you were very much to blame — if cneemed in too low a Sphere for a b’ise, why was She not left ip postes hon of that innocence, wdiich was her pride, her glory? — there are but too 
G many 
99 
j( ( -) 
iji! 
II many daily Surrounding us, who are 
III I fallen from virtue, — let them Suffice, 
II (Since lewties we all must have;) 
I but Seduction is a crime of an unpar 
!'|; donable nature, for besides the error 
hii. f., 
yc in itself the consequences which 
ill I * 
If ensue are generally dreadful A good 
i education, by which I mean good priii 
III ciples, being early inculcated, is an 
I almost never ^failing method of making 
I II us act with propriety, and when ari 
rived at maturity, the Society of 
Iji amiable women, they lead us from a 
Pi taste for the vicious: ftoman elegance, 
II delicacy and refinement peculiar to the 
ill estimable of the Sex, from a passionate 
ji love of their society, I find inylelf 
j I; daily weaned ftom those foibles, and 
III though I have been distipated, I have 
IN not been lost — there are a thousand 
I'iii' 
iljl; reafbns to be alleged against vices of 
jlilj this kind 5 by them we accustom our 
jli Selves either to look lightly on mar 
|| or conceive it dreadful, ftom the 
||| idea of being tied down, and the 
i ^ long stnce worn out, we enter 
III the state vnth a cruel indifference, 
i;, filled 
I lit ' 
; iff 
I l • 
^ 
IT 
w.. 
. 
ilii 
Ul>*! ' 4 
a 
( u7); i 
i 
\ a 
Silled with suspicions and a thousand I 
disgraceful opinions, from a too great; 1 
knowledge of the unworthy, unable j 
to allow justice to the worthy. -- -- -- -- --;! 
Their Society as I have Said before, to ■me is delightful : the innocence;;; 
of a deserving woman is i 
enchanting their fluency of ideas, pleasing knowledge, replete with sbft ness and refinement, awake to though tenderest, most delicate passions— — nature So gentle and So constant. — • 
“There is in you all we believe of heaven, 
“amazing brightnels, purity, and truth, 
“eternal joy and everlufting love.” 
All these, Haviland, are in Caroline.; « now that we are intimate, I am every hour more transported with her. My father is amazed at my not returning home: lady Amelia, he wnites me word, will Shortly be in England. — 
1 cannot, Haviland, though I ousht, tear myself from the Abbey. w e have several visitors here now, and 
/ J 
your Miss Seymour amongst the rest, who is the dear, the earliest friend of imisi Sedley — this young lady Seems 
G 2 very 
I 
\ 
() 
■ • I: 
; ■ IL 1. 
f very deserving of it, and I do not 
wonder that you adrairedherj she is 
i really very handsome ^ finer bkek eyes 
I think 1 never beheld. She is to leave us tomorrow, and the day after young mountfbrdds expected : 1 have not Seen hith Since he was a child; the Countess is in transports at his return. 
I have, been sitting with Caroline on the new made hay in the lawn, enjoy 
C ing the fincsl autumn evening, the 
Setting Sun casting a crimson reflection round us, and the lawn almost encircled by the finest woods imaginable. 
Tour Emily is gone — how has her departure affected Caroline! — when the coach drove off and tore her from her longing eyes, a Shower of tears fell from them — I led her into the house, gazed on the lovely girl 
; and kisi'cd her hand wdiilst thinking 
of her friend j She did not perceive me. Adieu. 
I ' L E T T E R 
'1 ' ‘ 
L ' 
; 
je r 
V 
( u9') I 
ii 
^ 
hi' 
ir 
LETTER xvlif. f 
: i 
'■ i 
THE SAME TO THE SAME. | 
M OUNTFORD is come — we are I 
'll 
all disappointed — all, did I Say; what | 
is it to any one but his nimily — igno I 
rant, ordinary, unmeaning, unaccom r j 
plished, is the youth — conceited of | 
having travelled too — it is easy to See ‘ 
he has a Silly look, and is altogether 1 
an odd compound — yet the animal is !| 
not quite destitute of taster and I there | 
dread Caroline may touch his I 
heart — well, and Surely it is nothing J 
to me — oh, Haviland! — nothing tov Ij 
me — Caroline, the most angelic of her? i! 
Sex, is all and everything to Telford;. j 
Pi 
it! 
11 i I 
; i 
’ !| I 
h; L 
I 
I 
f 
♦ i t; 
; 
I 
LII 
g3 Letter! 
I 
i 
LI 
II 
f, ( 252' /' 
< 
tit 
LETTER XIX 
Liii' ' 
: 
f': : MISS. SEDLEY TO MISS SEYM®UR. 
LII. 
i Jam hurt, my dear Emily, you 
were obliged to leave me So Soon : Mrs. h; Morton is however recovered. I hope 
you read, when with me, my dear Mrs. osborne’s letter and the Story She Smt me J is not the latter beautiful? 'Vl but I am' distradted to know what is 
become of Constantia, daughter to one of the unfortunate heroines. I wrote to my beloved patroness, but She did not know anything of that young lady. Mrs. ofoorne’s hint at my partiality for Mr. Belford, pained rae not a little — though to my Emily I own it, I did not wish her to think it: ftom all I have heard, stom all I; ■ have Seen, he is amiable, beyond raea 
f' Sure amiable — So very handfbme, Such 
an air of the world, So very entertaining too. You know I am immensely fond of men being agreeable, it is ■ i really an irresistible charm. -- -- -- Mr. 
Mountford 
.. ( 
: r ''h’ 
• I; 
L 
(; ir r ' • 
^ - I ■ 
y ill; i' 
Mountford is returned ftom his tra I 
vels, intenfible^ unaccomplished, and ij 
destitute of all that is elegant; he ^ ^ || 
stems a soil for Belford. Our number p 
of visttors are alfo added to, by a Miss i 
Villars; She is a Sweet, delicate, Senti | 
girl, full as handfbme, but not | 
half as agreeable as us : ’tis the pret | 
tiest quiet little thing in the world, and | 
as lady Ann Wiimot Says, equally | 
under stze for grace or a goddess— — 
little Wiimot too, did I tell you of | 
him — the petit race are the fashion at *1 
Mountford — Wiimot, my dear, is a | 
young officer of belfbrd’s regiment, | 
and a distant relation of the countess;; ^, | 
Villars is a friend of the lady J 
Mountfords, She and our new beau ll 
would be a good match I think. I I 
have not Seen him yet, but just step; - | 
ping ftom the carriage he came in, t 
for in that action he Sprained his I 
ankle violently, was carried to his || 
room, and pain making him quite | 
feverish, he has not these three days I 
S' 
een.able to come down. > i 
* 
*; C t 
; : i; 1 
i'.'li’ 
g4 Let. R II 
'ff 
liiii 
^ I'it 
^ 1 II ll 
I'il; 
Iii 
V. 
S ' ■ ( ^52) 
ll L E T T E R XX 
• II;; : 
. bi'’:! 
■i, ’ 
V IR EDWARD HAVILAND TO THE 
HON. CAPT. BELFORD. 
iiiii.'’ i 
; I I 
Ml, I 
IL ' Bath 
ij.. ’ 
I Yo u are evidently Belford in love — 
:,; C with Caroline, why do you not assume 
JI courage and quit the Abbey, Sensible 
II as you are of an engagement that can 
not be broke through. As you per', 
',; ceive by the date I have bid adieu to 
'I Morton house and to Emily, there 
if' was no bearing it, Harryj Woodley 
SAND She for ever flirting and your 
j friend totally neglected; he made pro 
■! — received — and all is going on 
I i in the nuptial train, whilst your ftiend 
is killing time at Bath. 
I j Mr. Woodley is a pretty, gentle 
I I young man, handfbme as a Zylplb 
CL Soft as the Zephyrus — wants afhi 
; i ranee, though — I wonder a girl oi 
Spirit could think of him. 
J I have wrote to Cecilia — and discovered 
the whole — made promises ol 
a continua 
II il 
:; 
I 
( 153) 
a continual friendship, and to beg lier acceptance of a very large yearly income 5 entreated She would write to me and Settle a method of receiving 
this : as yet no answer is returned 
dear unhappy miss Harley — ah! that Shad never Seen thee. Adieu. 
Edward Haviland, 
I 
j 
I 
'
% 1 
i 
^ i 
1 
1 
I 
i 
G I Letter 
. • j 
. ' • I 
! 
{ 
• I 
I 
*■ I 
I 
V I 
i 
'■I ibij g ^ 
ii ^ (■ ^ 
.'‘if ii' 
ilfn 
J 
I; LETTER XXL 
• •' • I, 
ii 
LII i ' ■ 
MISS SEDTEY TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
ti ' w ILMOT has made his appearance 
in the drawing-room, — very jl handfbme and very agreeable, but 
], intolerably impudent, a very amusing 
|! animal however. miss Villars 
still the Same — Soft, mild, and dejected. T 1 — Mr. Mountford quite disagreeable, 
I — the fore of the family. You blame 
so for having been Silent thefo three 
v weeks; I was developing the charac 
I ters of our visitors, from which topic 
so permit me to depart, to felicitate my 
Emily on her approaching union. — i' ' are highly to be commended for 
ji your choice. How very great the 
LI difference: from all I have heard, 
: M ' ■' 
"j: between Sir edw’ard and Mr. Woodley, 
I your propriety will I hope be rewarded 
by uninterrupted years of happiness, J and now I will return, to our party. — 
We really Spend our time in a very pleafaqt manner Wiimot stirts with 
F; ” US 
t.. 
i '; 
■ ’so 
■ T ■ 
hin 
'
C ' I • 
...foi I 
'S i ^ ■ S' 
•41, 
( 155) i 
!i 
LI ■ 
'^ '7' 
us all. But I feel more rapturous | 
pleasure at a look — a word ftom Mr. j; 
Belford, than the attentions of myraids besides, dangerous — Sentiments — my j 
Emily; — were I to listen to hope, — ' j 
I might believe myself the happy obi 
ject of a rather peculiar attention ftom I 
this most amiable of men j — but let 
me not ■ deceive myselfj^? -- ’tis more ';; 
than probable I am wrong, Emily, — no' more in him then commonplace III 
trifling. — There is a kind of chagrin, f 
an unaccountable Something in his [ 
air and manner to me, and a restraint, j 
yet a degree of pleasure in his Spark i 
ling, brilliant, eyes, inexplicable — bei 
cause he loses all this, wten he ad i 
dresses the Lady Mountfords, or miss villars,. then displaying an enchanting animation, a fire, - yet a sweetness, and tho’ an elegantly polite general attention, a degree of unconcern. — Mr.. Mountford is beginning to address northeast with a stlly, ridiculous particularity that is already growing disagreeable 
> 
* % 
_ _ ’v 
15 i C >56) 
In Continuation. 
I,, • 
i We were at a delightful Ball last 
night at Lord rusport’s — really a killing group of us dashed into the rooms. 
■ — The Ball was a fancy one, and we ll were (to use Mrs. sullen’s phrase)) 

!i 'i• 
iir 
T j“ “elegant as youth and imagination could 
‘il reprefent.’^ 
i 
11 Lady Catherine and Lady Eliza 
ill Mountford went in a coach with Bel 
.’ll ■.. ' 
I ford and Mr. Mountford, and Sophy 
I Villiars, Wiimot and your friend in. 
; | another. Some little diference Belford 
conceived at my accidentally accepting I wilmot’s request of going in the cari 
riage he did, and being handed in by 
I him; not but I must tell you Emily, 
I he is not eastly offended or liable ftom 
; the trifling occurrences in life to pique, 
I or I stiould hate him — no, my dear — 
I Belford is all that is charming; — this 
i little circumstance altered the Situation 
I 11 
; || i of affairs, tho’ neither our fpi^^^^ 
{ the good-humour of the party; — he 
I asked Miss Villars to dance, and 
I Wiimot 
I ^ 
i)!'! 
iili " 
h 
■1; 
T : 
[ 157 I 
!" 
Wiimot dear little Soul, elated at my 
condeteension, presumed further upon I 
it by asking rae; the night palled off I 
excestively well, notwdthstanding the 
general stupidity of a fancy Baulk' — I j 
would rather have been Mr. belford’s I 
partner I confess, and were I to flatter I 
myself from his looks he would have I 
preferred me, but by our behaviour 
we made others happy. Capt. Will j 
mot I can answer for it, and the to 
all appearance cold Sophia, Seemed to 
have got a touch of the promothean 
• fire: She and Wiimot both danced di • 
and tho’ they are wery little, | 
their forms are proportioned with a delicate Symmetry. I need not Say Belford also excels in this : the beauty of his person, his air and grace Shows he can never be imperfect in the I 
accomplishment. Before four in the morning we came away, and returned in the carriages appointed as we went: it was fine moonlight. Wiimot and Sophia foil asleep in the coach, — • but the beauteous aspect of the Sky I 
engaged my attention so much, I did | 
not, 
LII 
r;,. 
! 
L 
i: 
, • / 4 
II ( 158), 
1! not give way to the influence of 
1; Morpiieus, alike in her Sleep as when 
so awake, miss Villars wasctn a calm 
so gentle Slumber, whilst the animated 
so Wiimot frequently Slarted, and more 
soil than once pronounced my .name aloud, 
fol which made your Caroline “blush in 
ill “the dark.” When we had arrived 
I 'ii'j 
at the Abbey [from which Lord Ruf si port’s is ten miles, which made us come 
away So Soon, ] I caught hold of Mils' i villars’s hand to See if she was easily 
I awakened Is it you Belford, ” [Said 
fol foe, gently Slarting] and Sighing heavily 
so as She awoke. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Adieu: 
: 
i ^ 
'II \ 
S : 
: ■ hi' 
i!m ■ ✓ 
i: h i ^ 
1 
: : 1 
i is 
7^1 i 
. 
^ : ili 
I 
"! i i i: irs. 
(I 
'■ LI 
"I 
■l rij 
i i'li! 
•;., i • 0 
'tei! ', / 
■' j iij * 
fol ' Letter. 
T 
t.fol 
Ifofoiii 
'li 
■ 
■ 
■■ .j 
■ •.,, 
ifoilfo 
'rjin, 
Nihu 
.T It • 
: ill [If : i 
( 159-) 
LETTER XXII 
i; 
. M 
II 
h 
jl 
MISS SEYMOUR TO MISS SEDLET, f 
^ ii; 
Motion House 
jf R O M the conclusion of your let' ' >; 
I am inclined to believe Miss Villars is captivated with this all— — Belford — but She is nothing | 
to me; ’tis only for you I am con ■ 
— A sensibility the most trem i 
blingly alive, and a taste the most exquisite in my friend, has directed her admiration to Henry — he may flirt and I 
flatter, but ah! my Caroline, he may j; ' 
not lovei wish you were in an equal | 
happy sttuation with your Emily — blessed — Supremely blessed in the affections of her Woodley. We have a Set of agreeable visttors here, and the coterie at Morton vie with those at Mountford. My Swain and I walk by moonlight in the improvements, which are very beautiful: Our groves and waterfalls are uncommonly ro | 
and the dusk of the evening 
particularly j 
i ' so 
'j 
\ ^ nt ..tl ■- L 
L 
L 
L 
t ■( io) 
lil particularly pleases us: the landteape 
foi fading to the eye, the awful flillnels 
jil fills us vrith a kind of the most pleas 
III ing dejection, and the gloom around: 
soso ifo' 
L ' f 
: i Deepens the niurmer of the falling floods, 
it And breathes a browner horror on the woods.” 
'ji| The rustling of the leaves trembling 
ill with the fanning breeze, and the 
|| moon afterwards rising — what stenes 
III Sedley, to stray by with my Stre^ 
If I phon, 
i III i “At Such an hour and such place as this.” 
I'iii! r 
! • ‘ ‘ i 
lifo I am not certain I Should trust my 
ilj Self with Belford, - — but Charles is Ib 
II gentle, — their dispositions and theif 
11 persons are certainly alike, yet there 
fis a difference the highest in their 
Jl I manner. The important day I ’ am 
I foi teased to death to name; — do yon 
t know I am growing prodigiously Seri 
i ous my dear. Did 1 tell you I have 
ill I heard my aunt Melbourne is very ill. 
I I am quite of temper today, Caroline, 
I and will therefore conclude, — conclude 
, 1 I ' 
I *' — for perhaps the last time by the 
I I name of Emily Seymour. 
ill Letter. 
; B : 
: 
uo' I j 
II 1 ■ • * 
ft i; 
{ I D I /- 
ji, 
LETTER. XXIIL 
i 
[ 
uiss SEDLEY TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
Few men are without defects, .and Wiimot is a complete coxcomb. We i 
have had an elegant ball at the Abbey : | 
the rooms were decorated with all that I 
!• 
imagination, fashion and tasle could | 
exhibit, festoons of flowers Supported I 
branches of coloured lights: Nay, | 
a Veniix in one of the apartments | 
condescended to hold them (to a brilliant party of cotilions) when inter | 
with a wreath which carelessly |! 
hung ftom her hand of blowing roses. | 
Wiimot, after pasting about five | 
hours at his toilette, made his appear | 
Wiimot, just a jesiamy, a Lord | 
Fondville, with all the conceit of Such I 
characters advanced through the | 
— he advanced, my Emily, glow j 
ing with delight and certain of the ad | 
he inspired, imagining him | 
completely conquering, and that I 
no little execution he committed on | 
the Ladies, ‘‘ And little hearts to | 
“stutter I 
T ] 
lil ' ■, '. > ( I'dz J 
: ■ NC 
I 'stutter at a Beau.” A Fop wljen 
fol compared to many characters in the 
fol world is a very innocent one; it’s a 
II. character in which no virtues of our 
foi; own are polluted and no vices coni 
firmed ': the pasiion of dress and the 
■| exultation of conquest engross the 
; foi mind: thus though itv might be infinitely 
better employed^it< might on so the other hand : be much more dan; e 
J rouuy: a man of really brilliant uni; 
- derstanding never Aistered himself to 
! dwindle into the character: he has 
IA contempt for such beings, but notwithstanding, 
libertine courses of dif: r fipation he will think justifiable. The 
; {; most delightful criticism on the stage, 
ill in which many comedy’s have strik 
LI ingly Set forth a coxcomb, for years 
i. has lashed in vain j the character by a 
i few will' ever be kept up. I will 
If ■ hdre Emily give an example of its 
ill merit when compared to others by 
i;?, the history of two Ladies and" twc 
VI ^ 
so: ' Gentlemen I knew. In the north oi 
ifo ’ England lived a family of the dor lib mers, who. had, ctwo. daughters, Eiido 
i. ' '■ ■ ■ 
W ' ■ 
§1 ' ' ' LII ■ ■ 
toil 
. ( '63 J i 
R ■ 
lla and Belinda; they were both beautiful, but had no fortunes: an old i; 
gentleman a Mr. Severn proposed for f 
eudosia, the elder, thcs She had not | 
then attained her Seventeenth year: I 
his fortune being considerable. She was, forced byhersimily to consent, and | 
in a Short time they were united, Soon | 
after which they retired to their Seat | 
in a neighbouring county; Belinda | 
lived with them, and three years in I 
retirement Slowly elapfod. — They were I; 
both extremely volatile, Belinda pars 
ticularly, who regretted want of for | 
hourly, Since it prevented her | 
figuring in London. — The kind stars | 
of Mist Dormer were propitious, — and | 
the return of .a brother ftom the West | 
Indies, or rather his generostty in I 
iresenting her a noble fortune, enabled | 
aer to gratify her wishes. Mr. Severn | 
was prevailed on to let his wife ae ' | 
company Belinda, who promised to J 
pay all their expenses, and he being I 
old and infirm, staid in the country j 
whilst Mrs. Severn and the exulting f 
Belinda, stew transported to the mei 
tropolis, I 
I 
’1 \ 
* l; 
1 
iji 
'_ (■ 164 
|; i tropolis. They took an elegant fur 
II iiished house for the winter, were in 
1 troduced to people of the first diftinc 
I tion, and fbon made their appearance 
I in public. — eudosia had delicate feel 
1 ings, and looked .reserved tho’gay in 
her behaviour, while the most exquisite life and Spirit animated the beauties of miss Dormer, but notwithstanding so the Sparkling Scenes in which our rural 
nymphs fluttered, notwithstanding the beaus that hourly Surrounded them, their hearts were invulnerable for a! considerable time. On the birth night 
they went to St. james’s, and that il auspicious night attracted' universal 
attention from their native beauty and fi; simplicity. They were asked to dance 
so by two gentlemen, Mrs. severn’s part! 
|! was a Mr. Townly, and belinda’s, 
I Mr, Audley. — We will leave them in 
ifo the Sets and give a character of the 
partners. 
,; 'il A ^ 
Jerry Townly and Tom Audley were two of the first rakes of fashion m town. Tom was the yonnger Son of a country Baronet and at eighteen 
Showed 
foi! ‘ ’ 1 
Sj, 
iji. 
; r i i 
■( 165) 
foewed his taste in dress. Tom was at first the buck of the country, and Soon after sunk or rose which you please, to the beau; his first appearance in tills charncter was coming to the country church with two watches, 
a ^ ^ ' 
coloured stockings, breathing all arabia. 
The Baronet had great difficulty to fit out the Service, and wdien they returned home. Severely chastiied him for his foppery, Tom however was inexorable, and at the election ball made I 
so dazzling an appearance that the old gentleman locked him up on his return I 
home. Audley was a lad of Spirit, I 
he could not bear the insult, and re' ' 
to be revenged; wlien the family were in bed he broke a window ' 
in the closet he was placed in, and from thence being light and alert, LI 
jumped into an orchard, ftom which j 
he got out, went to the next town where he pasted that night, and before (lav Set out for London. Intowhat a Si i 
tuation now had he thrown himself! he i 
fi 
was utterly unknown, and depending } 
for an uncertain period on fifty pounds j 
which il 
i 
$ 
LII 
I' 166) 
h' ' • 
, 
which he had brought with him, Tom; ■ went to a hotel, and then, and not 
until then, began To reflect, tho’ by I. no means to regret his conduct. Tom i formed a reiblution worthy of him 
h' ^ 
I Seif and promising his future genius 
I he had heard his father mention many 
I relations.and acquaintances in London, 
together with the places where they lived, all which he perfectly remenb ' bered.; he rifng the bell, and ordering 
I pen, ink and paper, feigned Sir 
anthony’s hand admirably, and If; forged letters of introduction for him 
LI self, several of which were to different 
|| people of distinction; and as soon as 
p: he was drested, went with them hira 
'Self and was not only politely but 
I by fbme affectionately received, had 
I constant invitations to their houles, 
if' 
I and soon found' the fuccess of his 
ipic ^ 
if stratagem. A very few weeks howl, 
ever had not elapfod before he was 
reduced to the utmost distress, had I launched into expenses, and was com 
1 mitted to the Fleet prison: it was 
so while here that his acquaintance with 
Jerry Townly had commenced. — Jerry Ifo was 
r'j, 
t: ' 
Iii. 

L 
\\ 
ill 
1 
( ^^7 ') ■ I: 
it 
/ so 
■ ll 
S; 
I. 
was a ^profesicd rake, — a profesicd - j lighter, — a profesied gamester and a ] 
professed devil; he was old in the! 
service, and Tom became a disciple in a little time Townly and he were ll 
delighted with .each other, and while thus employed, we Shall leave them..; 
The Baronet never conceived, but that 
4 
his fon was concealed in The country, - 
yet was so affected at his elopement, that it preyed on his health, and he expired while Tom was in the Fleet.; his title and fortune devolved on the eldest brother who was on the conti « and notwithstanding his disobedience, five hundred a year and five thousand pounds were left to Tom. 
He now immediately discharged his debts, and bidding adieu to the prison walls, launched into the gay world again: he had just Settled his affairs when a veneral enlargement Set Mr. 
» C; ' 
Townly also free, and completed the happiness of his friend. They took a house and resolved to live together. 
audley’s fortune was in the hands of a guardian, who refusiog Some of his 
unreasanabie 
( 
II ‘ C) 
unreas' nable demands, he married an 
||; | actress. to vex the family. Jerry was 
Ilj! turned of forty, and still the Same; 
l|j in breaking lamps, beating watchmen 
||| ' andrcal ng a gentleman out for a trifle, 
ill paying his play debts with honour 
J and playing always, no man was more 
i expert than Jerry Townly; he was 
pis for a course of years on the world, - — 
i so an inmate of every bagnio by turns, 
Ijl and well knovv^n at all the public 
11 places; he is justly the dread of every 
I waiter, stnce the plural number of 
these unfortunate foot balls (kicked J only by the rudely vicious) he has Sent 
. either to the other world or the incu« I ' rabies. The actress which Audley 
J liad married, had charmed the world 
I by her abilities; She was first his mist 
I tress, and in a fit of love revenge on 
[> the family and intoxication, married 
I her : But She not being very constant, 
as might bestaturally Supposed, figured in the tete a tete of a maaiazine: in a very few months, a Suit for crim. con. was accordingly tried, and a divorce 
(procured at Doctors Commons. Tte 
'Lady 
( I fig) ■) ■; 
'
Lady returned to the stage, and Tom felicitated himself on being again a if 
Single man. — Having now delineated % LI their characters, we return to St. .1 
james’s. — — Eudosta and Belinda : | 
were too attracting not to inspire their LII 
partners with love, if we suppose ' ' n 
debased minds capable of a refined pasiion. — Townly and Audley became! 
visitors at their house, and all parties J 
were prepostested. Jerry, though not || 
young, was still handsome and delight II 
fully agreeable, and Mrs. Severn tho’ f 
conscious of her error, found herself hourly more and more attached to him. belinda’s affection was justifia.. | 
Audley was in the full tide of youth and beauty, and both the Ladies were ignorant of their characters.: their real innocence and ignorance of the world made them Suffer themselves to he always with Jerry and Tom in oublie, and whispers began to be circuited to the prejudice of Mrs. Severn. 
While matters thus went on She received intelligence her husband was ill, and immediately fet off for the North, but 
H before 
I' ^ ^ 
Ilf before her arrival he had breathed LII 
j last; — she now propofod palling th 
i: time of her mourning in the country 
III a period which appeared ages to Be. 
yil linda. It was impossible not to re. 
ll member Audley, whose name wai 
i feored and feared on every tree in tb 
II ‘country. 
Hr ■ ' 
j ■ " air^fllluions taught a lover yet, 
11|; ’tis lure the hardest science to forget; 
ll“ “such a soul regains its peaceful state, 
jij I “How often nmil it love, how otten hate, 
i How often hope, despair, resent, regret, 
ll Conceal, dilclain, do all things — but forget.” 
11 
i The wifhed for period arrived ol 
I their return to the capital, and im 
jl mediately on being Seen in public and 
i, Seen with Townly the calumny ol 
j the public revived, or had twelve 
'moons expiration (to use a phrase ol 
norval’s) made them at all forget her, _ • The lovely relict; too late difeovered 
■ the character of her lover, and to avoid 
the censures"of a prying w’orid,, gladly 
gave him her hand. — miss Dormer, Spite of the admonitions of her friends,! Shut her eyes to the unworthiness ol 
Audley 
■1 
i 
■ i 
f 
I I 
i 
i 
! I 
( II) ■ III' 
: 
i; 
Audley, and eloped with him from |: 
Ranelagh. Jerry figured away for Some | 
time and then went to live in a j! 
country part of France he Said to Save money J — this was a pretence j he left i 
the deceived eudosia there and re fi 
L 
turned to England, where he ibid her P 
jointure to gratify the vv^ants of vice. — 
Mrs. Townly whole too great love !■ 
for him had been her only fault, now I 
is obliged to Seek Subfifience by being I 
tutoress in an englisli family at if 
Dieppe in Normandy; She bears her fate with angelic fortitude, and blestes || 
Heaven for a pious education which I 
enables her to do So, and an elegant | 
one, Since it is the means of procuring | 
her a livelihood, though a trying and f 
precarious one. I 
Mrs. Audley being one night at the j 
playhouse, was ravished with the I 
performance of an actress She had l 
never before Seen : the character' was ^ 
^ ^ 'i 
the Fair Penitent, and highly Support -- S 
ed. — Belinda entered into conversation jl 
with a Lady that Sat next her, who.; 
was well acquainted with all the 
H 2 Scandalous 
I 
J 
i 
I 
; 
i 172 j, 
Scandalous anecdotes of the town, and pretending' not to know Mrs. Audley, informed her the actress was divorced from Tom Audley: — This intelligence affected her extremely, hut a happy cheerfulness of difposition, triumphed over Senstbility, and She is less miserable than her stster. — Audley and Belinda flutter away like butterflies bafleing in Sunshine, and Townly having expended the widow’s fortune, is partly to his friend, and partly to the gaming table indebted for fubsift ence. 
You will perhaps ray dear Emily think this story has not Sufficient ap postteness to the Subject at the beginning of my letter, the townly’s particularly none but had Tom beea indulged in his juvenile days, foppery might have Saved him from an abandoned life. Adieu. 
V ■ 
\ 
Letter 
0 
'0 
( 173) 
1 
!i 
LETTER XXIV! 
b 
ij, 
THE HON. CAPT. BELFORD TO SIR | 
EDWARD HAVILAND, BART. | 
Mountford Abbey. 
Adamantin E chainsfeemtorivetme here— — after post bring letters from my father J and my tc^ e/e^v (detested I 
found, but I must name it as Doricourt 
'i 
Siys) is hourly'expected in England. Ij 
Varied are the affections I have felt — • 
ij, j 
nay, many women I have loved; but ji 
none with that strenuous warmth, that i 
dear erithustastic ardour which for '! 
• *■ 
Caroline I feel. — I have in mv own I 
mind been laying out the future, — how ' I 
very dreary the prospect. — An engage j 
ment as you Say not to be broke thro’, || 
allies me to Lady Amelia without the |: 
linallest knowledge of her disposttions,! 
and not a Sentiment higher in her | 
stvour than admiration. — My heart | 
another’s, I become a husband with indifference and regret. i 
You know little Wiimot who is in I 
ii 
our regiment, he has been here for 1 
H 3 Some jii 
1 I 
’1 
LI 
( 17+) 
Some time, and is the devoted Slave of miss Sedley; he thinks however he cannot aspire to her, and Sighs in Secret — to me only, and as he was ignorant of mine, confesled his pasiion. — I wish, lie would transfer it to miss Villars, another of our visitants, a Sweet gentle girl. Adieu, ' Haviland. 
Yours 
Hbnry Belford. 
V 
Le t t er. 
( >75) i 
II 
• J 
V 
!' 
I 
LETTER XXV || 
LI 
t I 
, > 
, f 
MISS SEYMOUR TO miss'sedley. | 
I, 
, 
!! * 
How transient is felicity here, i 
and how Still salter our expections of it || 
Caroline! — oh my friend, 1 am indeed j 
the most unhappy of human beings 
Woodley! — - — yes, my dear, Woodley 
is for ever torn from your wretched, |: 
— wretched Emily. -- -- -- -- I have been [ 
striving to compose my mind for a I 
moment to acquaint my ftiend with lil 
my Situation — I tear I cannot do it; ^ — il 
why is not my Sedley here to consble |, 
me! — When I wrote last I boasted of 
I, < 1 
my happiness and compared our sttua I 
tions: I told you my aunt Meli 
bourn was ill, — that very night She 
died: my entire expectations of fortune 
and of a very large one, were built 111 
you know on her, with a great deal of so 
justice, as She always Said I Should be 
her heir : She had not made a will, and I 
conceiving her indifposition slight, did 
not then make one as She was always 
H 4 alarmed 
1 
foi 
rx 
il 
'II 
I 
i 
jj 
? alramed at the idea of death and coni 
’ • ^ 
I ceived' anything preparatory to it 
j Siiockins;. In an hour when she least 
r ' CI ^ 
1 expected it, She breathed her last, and 
i ' by not making a will, her fortune I which was twenty thousand pounds, 
I with equipages, houses, furniture, ci 
all devolves on a nearer relation — a 
I 
I brother, and one who very rich did 
! not require this addition. Tho’ I 
I forgot to date my last letter I believe 
I I was then on a visit at Tunbridge j 
immediately on hearing of my aunt’s, j. dissolution I hastened back to Morton, 
house.. when the carriage stopped 
I at the gate, I was amazed that old 
II Mr. Woodley nor Charles did not come 
I out to meet me and Mrs. Morton 
*1 • ^. f. 
received rae rather with concern than I pleasure, her eyes glistened with the 
I tear of Sympatliy as she folded me in 
her arms and afterwards led me into j a parlour; I had been above a fortnight 
I away, and when I left home preparations 
were making for the wedding; I everything methought Seemed now 
altered, a storm of wind and continual 1 rain 
a * 
S il \ 
Bm ffli) 
I 1 
!' 
Bs ll 
I 177 J! 
. S 
. i: 
i 
rain poured from the heavens and added to the gloomy appearance every 1 
thing wore: pavillions, temples, and rustic Seats had been raised in the gar,, 
dens and improvements, as entertain;; { 
were to have been given there. j; 
From the windows of the parlour || 
I Saw the tempest: had blown Several LI 
of them down, everything looked | 
changed, and ftom the Srniles of joy J 
all wore the ftowns of horror. I asked ij 
Mrs. Morton where tyre woodley’s f 
were? She replied they had left that f 
place, and to Several questions I asked; |; 
concerning them returned evasive answers, contriving also to be out of I 
the room except when at dinner or tea. Mr. Morton. She said was out, but n! 
expected in the evening j the evening however pasted on without his arriving, and your Emily was in the most cruel state imaginable of forejien so 
distress, and uncertainty I strove to :! 
amuse myself with my harpstchorch j 
my library, drawing, — all would riot | 
do, — a mind like mine, torn with sus I 
pense, was incapable of enjoying its | 
H 5 ^ usual i 
.; Si 
i; i 
lifoi 
if 
I 
(; 
usual avocations ^ at Supper my aunt, grew extremely uneasy at my uncle’s, 
I not returning j at last however, before 
the cloth was removed he came, fe emingly fatigued and diftressed : as soon as the Servants were dismissed he addrefsed rae thus. — “You are no “doubt amazed at the Situation of “things in appearance, — you muss. Summon resolution my dear niece and consider everything for the besl., but your proposed match Miss Emily is all over.” -- -- -- -- -- According 
I to my uncle’s usiial method, I make 
no doubt Caroline, but he considered, the affair divulged incthe moss cautious manner, and looked indeed with the 
i conceit of having Spoke with care 
nplwithslanding as he is the first sports man in the country, I am convinces he considered the loss of a lover not to be compared with that of a beagle. ■ ^however, tho’ he had broke the ice as he called it, and in the best manner as he fancied, a general chilness Seized me, and I Sunk fainting in Mrs. Mori 
ton’s armsj — I: was partly recovered 
I by 
ft 
h 
||’ 
\ 
r 
I 
Ij 
( 179) I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
by a Sort of Flilloah — from my uncle exclaiming he thought the girl had rriore Jptrtt “My dear, ” — said the patient Mrs. Morton, — “our Emily “is deeply astected.” — She is a fool, 
“Lucy, (returned he) had She married | 
“Sir Edward all this had been Spared.” I 
— As soon as I was enough recovered. | to be able to bear it, I requested to LI 
know the wdiole. 
“I understand Said my uncle, old [ 
“Mr. Woodley, tho’ sensible of your || merit, was chiefly pleased at the | 
“alliance on account of your fortune, ij 
“as soon as Miss Melbourne died, [I 
“and that he learned by her not S 
“making a will, it was not to "130 “yours, he told me he must inflst on“ “declining the match, and pr(ci i 
“pitately left the houfo, taking “Charles along with him without “letting him know anything of the 
astair: your aunt and me were ex i 
“tremely distrefled at the affair, as so 
we knew how your astedtions stood, 
“and were inclined to believe young t 
Mr, .Woodley was entirely forced, by j 
“his I 
for 
ifol' 
•' ’ I 
iiiiifo 
( io) 
; r 
I “his father. While you continued at 
j “Tunbridge we were in unfpeakabie 
j “distress, and learning that the 
I ‘‘ Woodleys were within 20 miles of 
“this, I went to the irm where they t “were; the old Squire Seemed rather i' displeased and surprised at Seeing 
“me, I immediately however ac quainted him with the motive of I “my visit; I told him as matters had 
f i “gone So far I w’as unwiliinv the 
j o *0 
I alliance Should be broke off, as I 
I “had a respect and esteem for his fa 
I “rally j that indeed miss melbourne’s 
I “Sudden death had^considerably alter 
I “ed my niece’s circumstances, as two 
I ' thousand pounds was all stie could 
I “now call her own, but I was rei 
Solved to make it five, and came to 
ijh 
make that proposal to him. — Mr“ “still' however declined; — so: “and I was beyond measure enraged 
Ij “and stew out of the room, declaring 
II his conduct was both mean and 
I ' 
I dishonourable. — I came by mistake 
I (proceeded ray uncle) down a dif 
il! ferent staircase from the one I had 
|; ‘‘ come 
I II ^ 
'
ij 
: il 
( ii) 
“come up, which led me to Some; 
“other rooms, and was So engrossed by [ 
“the buliness which had brought me “to the inn, I did not perceive my “error, and was walking along the “palfage when I heard a window | 
“thrown up, and my name Softly I 
“pronounced ^ the windows of the I; 
“gallery I was pasiing through were “open, and the sudden gust of wind “in the area between blew out the I 
* n 
“candles in the branches and left me l“ 
“confounded. — Mr. Morton — 
“was again softly pronounced, and I | 
“recollected charles’s voice. — I am j: 
“beyond measure unhappy. Sir, (said I 
‘‘ he) at this fatal change of affairs, i“ 
“hope you will not think mef to ‘V blame, as I afsure you I am not — we | 
“are cruelly Separated, but my heart II 
“will ever be emily’s j my father con | 
“me from your house under | 
“the pretence of paying a visit, and ] 
“when we had arrived here ac I 
“quainted me with my fate : unable f 
to Submit tamely to this stroke of fortune, I ordered my horses and had | 
fet ll 
, ’!'i 
: ■!! 
ill 
: !'! 
: I 
^ ■ 'I 
.il 
Hi 
: J, 
\ it; 
Set off for Tunbridge, resolving to “unite myself (if She consented) to my “Emily privately there, but couriers “were posted after me and I was “brought back and confined here; 
my father has the key of my a“ “which is only opened to ‘‘ send me necessaries of life; the “windows are strongly iron barred “and, your friend Charles is here a “state prisoner: in a few days we are I “to leave this and make a tour thro’ 
I 
I “France and Holland : — from the 
i ^ 
“casement I knew you.in the opposile I “gallery and opened it: the wind has 
I “blov/n out both our candles, and, 
I “what I have to request of you is 
i “to deliver a letter for me to my 
j “Emily, wtich I have wrote with a 
I “pencil in a leaf of my pocket book.” 
“— Xo this (Said my uncle). I obi“ “and positively refuted, as 
j “my countenancing’ the attachment 
■ “would be highly improper. Charles 
I “urged — (even on his knees as he 
“told me, for all was in the dark,) 
; “that I would be the bearer of the“ 
“
f 
'} 
n 
L 183 J 1 
ill: 
If I 
; i 
« letter — he Said he could throw it | 
“across, the Space between us being f 
“not more than three yards, and | 
“when he found I persisied in a rei 
“fulal he befoeched me to asture you,; ( 
you were dearer to him than ever — i 
and that if ever he posiibly could | 
“prevail on his father or regain his so, | 
liberty he would sty to his adored; j 
“Emily; — with these. words young V Ij 
Wooctey Shut down the window, ill 
“fearing further conversation might | 
‘‘ occasion a detection,, as Some one I 
^ i. 
might come into the yard below, and not being able to find a bell, I; 
“I groped my way downstairs.” 
Mr. and' Mrs. Morton, in the most j 
affectionate manner Spent a great part | 
of the night in consoling me; about I 
three I went up to my own room, where I had liberty to indulge my | 
grief: when I thought all the family LI 
were retired to resl, I walked into the so 
gallery and opened the doors of a so 
ballroom and a dresiing room which 1; 
had been laid out in a beautiful style jj 
for the nuptials of your Emily, - — oh! | 
Caroline, ifo 
; is! 
‘ sots 
II 
■ LI 
■ ’ i 
iil 1 
iii 
LII 
i. ( 1^4-) 
Caroline, with wffiat anguish did I now behold them! — in the latter of these apartments was a full length portrait of Mr. Woodley, a benign smile Sat / in my charles’s features j — >1 wept, — I 
Softly pronounced his name and heard' the echo along the walls. — My uncle’s i account of his being confined touched 
me to the Soul, and his continuation of affection afforded me unspeakable pleasure, — yet why Should it, his father will wean him from it and he will never Suffer him to be the i husband of your poor Emily. Adieu 
; - — Adieu my Caroline. 
I 
i 
I 
1 
i ' ' 
I 
il 
'.fi 
T 
j 
: |; Letter 
h 
I * 
I 
I 
■'j. 
III 
I 
i 
» 
S --.. 
I 
() j 
ji 
i. 
j 
I 
i 
i 
LETTER XXVI 
i 
fi 
MISS SEDLEY TO MISS SEYMOUR. I 
I 
t. 
I 
Mountford Abbe. 1 
You arc indeed my Emily to be I 
pitied. — I wet your letter with ray j 
tears — oh! my friend, to be torn as | 
you say from the amiable Charles, -- -- -- 
but do not I beseech you give up to | 
unrestrained grief; his father may yet ■ 
relent, — Some unforeseen change in | 
affairs may happen. — The great dis | 
poser of all events ashicts us for a i 
while, and these are necesiary trials ray j 
Emily. — Virtuous actions, and resolu | 
.tion and fortitude in our ashictions, I 
will either here or hereafter meet the deserved recompense £ 
were right in your conjecture | 
of Miss villars’s partiality for Capt. I 
Belford — She indeed my Emily loves, j 
— methinks Sophia gives distinction to i 
herself by her admiration for this most I 
angelic of men. — As She appears the, I 
most Silent and reserved little creature I 
■ || 
. in, I 
II 
I h 
ti 
'll 
]! 
I 
m t( 
( > 
, in the world, chance and penetration like your caroline’s alone could have discovered her Sentiments my fuspi' cion was first awakened by her more than pleasure of dancing with him at Lord rufport’s; — yesterday evening I was in the garden, and the walk I happened to enter was divided from another by a tall laurel hedge; the rustling behind convineed me there was Somebody inside, and by their voices I Soon discovered it to be Lady Catherine Mountford and Miss Villars. I Should have hastened away from listening to any particular conversation, had' not the name of Belford' I. raised in me a curiosity not to be repelled tho’ unjustifiable — — K tty is her dearest friend and confidant, and not a Secret of the little heart of Sophia is kept from her. 
“ashe pays no particular attention, to me (said She) I am very Silly in being So much prepossessed in his “favour, yet oh Kitty” — here a turning in the walk prevented my hearing the rest : — when they came round 
again 
( >87) 
again — ''' you know Mountford (said“ “Belford honoured me (So he “did Emily) with the appellation of “Sister J this familiar manner of treat“ 
“me excited naturally a lively “esteem, 
‘‘ And love approached me under friendship’s “name.’^ 
Here my dear, Mr. Wiimot came up, who leading me into another garden prevented my hearing any more of the. conversation. Wiimot is growing prodigiously fond of me, and he is so very agreeable, that next Belford f like his society: they are both very handsome and in a different style j Henry is a little above the middle stze and Wiimot constderably below it, yet, still he is So elegantly formed, indeed there is a zylph like lightness in his whole deportment, added to an air of fashion, and an air of the world, with a killing face — renders him quite irreststbile in the eyes of those who 
are not already prepossessed ^ -- -- -- -- • 
why — ah why, is .your Caroline pre posrested, -- Do you know, Emily, Mr. 
Mountford 
I 
I 
1 
I 
i 
i 
() 
Mountford made me an offer of his hand and heart, and begged leave to make formal proposals to my father, — to this I positively refused, as he is really to me quite disagreeable. So dull, so ignorant is Mountford. — Oh my Emily! who is the happy woman concealed by providence to bless the “gallant, gay, ” — the generous, the 1 angelic Belford. * 
f, 
i: 
i 
« 
1: 
I IN CONTINUATION. 
I 
■1 * III ' 
I Some days has elasped Since I wrote 
I the above, for knowing your present 
I unhappy frame of mind, I wished my 
I Emily to be a little more composed 
j; before She was acquainted how her 
friends at the Abbey are going on. — Miss Villars this day left us, — a Sweet l girl, yet She is a little fool like your 
if ftiend. — I caught her in tears in the 
I wilderness— — looked confused— — 
blushed — • trembled, and stammered 
fout, that parting with Kitty had 
I asfected her. She has acted with 
I propriety in leaving us, as time 
I and 
H ' 
ff i' i.tj 
lil 
i 
\ i; I 
^ I |; 
I 
and absence will I hope prove effectual cures to her pasiion; — her rei 
Solution in my own mind I highly i 
commended: had She known how Sin so 
cerely I Sympathised with her, She so 
would not have hesitated to open her n 
heart: Sophia is an heiress, which I 
added to her. personal attractions makes a figure of Some importance in the world, and She is Surrounded with adorers — neglected all for a man who 
is perfectly indifferent about her. -- -- - I 
Tho’ equally fusceptible and equally | 
attached to Capt. Belford, I am not ji 
equally to blame with miss Villars : he || 
certainly, Seymour, pays me a degree il 
of flattering attention, a degree of preference of delight at my approach, of pain at my absence, a delicate Solicitude — yet my ftiend an ambigu ousnefs, a strange restraint, and of late all this increases, joined to an absence i 
at one time, a melancholy at another. — Letters are just brought in to me, 
I must lay aside ray pen.' — Oh my Emily! ’tis now your caroline’s day I 
cf trial, — my father is extremely ill : 
and! 
» 
‘! 
/ i 
\ i 
I, 
1 
j 
1' 
( ^9°) 
and desires my immediate return home, tomorrow morning I fet out— — caa write no more — my heart dies within me, I have a thousand strange forebodings. 
12 at night. — IHAVE parted with Mr. Belford — perhaps I may never never more behold him— — idea oh my Emily! I had acquainted the family at dinner wdth my intention of leaving the Abbey; for the remainder of the day we Were the most Silent party imaginable. Harry left the room, Mountford was in a state of stupefaction, the Silent tear stole down the amiable countess’s cheek, Kitty and Eliza were quite dismayed, and little Wiimot declared himself wretched if our Coterie was broke up. As I propose leaving this very early in the morning I took leave of them all after Supper, except Belford who was not in the room. Her ladyship retired, but as it was a fine moonlight night, Wiimot and the girls proposed a walk : we went into the improvements, and in a little 
hazel 
s 191; I 
« ' i 
hazel copse I Some way misted my party, 1 took a wrong path in striving to find them, when to my great surprise met Belford, — we walked on together, in a state of Silent grief: Henry looked — all he would have Said he Seemed to restrain himself, — his lips quivered my Emily, — we were both unable to Speak and proceeded through the grove in a state of stlent unutterable agony, 
— when we had reached the house we 
ipoke : I told him I Should fet off. So 
very early I would not have the 1 
pleasure of Seeing him again, — he || 
took my hand, “adieu — adieu — then 1 
“dearest most, amiable Miss Sedley, ” — 1 
was all he could articulate, his brilliant ' 
eyes which have the greatest archness 
were fixed en me, my hand was still 
in his when our party came up, I 
hurried with them into the house and ^ 
went up to my own room, the moon I 
was So bright by it I could distinctly 
from the window, See Belford walking | 
in the lawn. i 
i 
“Most amiable of men [said I to i 
myself whilst I viewed him! may ' 
“thy if 

, { 
I • 
192) TH“ 
“years of felicity be unnumbered, may all thy wishes be ahfwered and thy expectations be gratified, and “may the blessed woman of thy choice love thee wdth an equal affection, with which thou art loved by 
Caroline Sedley, 
) 
ii 
■ 
L 
fi 
i. 
»' 
il i 
i: 
i; 
b 
P - ■ ■ 
IS 
I 
I 
n ■■ ■ - 
1; 
t; 
il' 
P 
i 
i! 
I «. Letter 
^' 
I' ' II 

fl; 
Mi' 
i' 
[s i. 
(3: 
1*1: 
LI 
M I 
m [ t 
i *93) 
I 
I;; !■ 
XXVII 5 
IHE HON. CAPT. BELFORD TO SIR 
EDWARD HAVILAND, BART. | 
r, 
J; 
i I 
Mountford Abbey. 
I 
Caroline is gone, — with her 
all my happiness is flown. — I knew foe was dear to me, but did not know I adored her until now. — Heavens! 
Sir Edward, what a life of urihappi ness must; I lead! Miss Sedley, I love ^ I 
to madness love, and never can I make her mine. — L am distracted, Haviland. | 
The consciousness of having acted right is certainly, however, a happy reflection to ourselves, a blessed one, and his the reward of all gracious providence. I have never left the Smallest opening which could lead her to a suspicion of my regard — cold ex prelsion, — unbounded love the most faithful — most delicate of passions ho not imagine it vanity, but I am inclined to believe I wms not indisterent 
I to 
1 
9 
( 194-) ■ 
to her. Honour taught me rather to Suppress than encourage this, I restrained myself though with violent pain, a thousand times the effusions of tenderness have vibrated on my lips, — I was ever on my guard, ever placed Lady Amelia belville’s image before 
iny eyes. -- -- theillness of Mr. Sedley 
her father, was her motive for leaving the Abbey, — however painful, perhaps it was better for us both. Upon my honour, while She staid I believe I never Should have had resolution to go, — She is now’ a week gone. I have not been able to write until today. I staid only out of ceremony, as to leave the house immediately on her doing it, would be highly improper, and Show her Society had been my only motive for staying. I have therefore Sacrificed a week to politeness, and tomorrow propose Setting out for Belford — almost time indeed 5 my father is quite out of patience. 
I went through all the Shades where I had strayed with the' lovely Sedley, the woods, the lawns, they all reminded me more forcibly of her. 
Mr. 
■( IS) ll 
i • 

• i 
Mr. mountfbrcl made formal dei 
clarations of his pafiion — she refused: i 
little, — elegant, animated Wiimot still [j 
Sghed in Silence. Mils Villars is gone, | 
She left us abruptly, — tomorrow my | 
friend I go — Sweet Shades of Mount | 
how many happy days have I I 
palled in you. — Mr. Wiimot Sets out | 
along with me, we travel together as i 
far as -- -- -^ he there joins the regiment, so 
and I have after that a very long so 
journey to the north. Thus are our j 
Sweet Coterie broke up entirely, and sono 
one left at the Abbey but Lady t 
Mountford with her Son and daughters. so 
Adieu Edward. [ 
Henry Belford. | 
[• 
i 
i 
s 
I: 
II 
s 
h 
ll’ 
LI 
f 
\ 
I' 
i‘ 
4 
I t Letter ' 
14 
. i! 
It 
I 
II 
fi 
I 
i; 
1- 
t: 
j; 
i. 
1 ( 196.) 
'i 
h 
(, 
!i 
'LETTER XXVIII 
MISS SEDLEY TO MISS SEYMODK. 
hanover fquare, London. 
, I A M now sat down to acquaint my 
friend with everything that has happened Since I wrote last; — 1 went to bed when I had finished that letter, but “kind nature’s Sweet restorer “balmy steep, ” had indeed flown from ray pillov/j in a tew hours I arose, 
i, and at opening day fet out on my journey to London. — How I wept, my Emily, wten the chaise tore me from all view of the Sweet Shades of Mountford, — I recollected with the most tender regret the happy hours I had Spent there, our little parties, our balls, the gentle Sophia, the Spirited Wiimot, " the truly amiable countess and her daughters, and I recollected Belford — • all these charming Scenes and persons were left for uncertainty and Sorrow j an amiable parent ill — dreadful idea, — thus my dear, between recollection of 
the 
/ 
I '97 1: 
the past, impatience and fear of the future, I was exceedingly unhappy during a very long journey, in which I was only accompanied by my maid. When we arrived at the metropolis it was very late and your friend weak and fatigued, I flew with impatience to my father’s chamber, he was Supported by attendants in bed, he clasped me to his heart and called me his dear, dear Caroline j — he told me he was very ill and anxious to See me. I begged to Sit up with him, he would not Suffer it, and used to obey his every mandate, I consented, and retired to my own apartment. I lay awake the whole night, and about Seven in the morning had just: fallen into a little Slumber, and was dreaming confusedly of Belford, when a knocking at the door awoke me JI arose and opened it; it was a nurse tender of my father’s, and She acquainted me he wanted to Speak to me; — I hastily half drested myself, and went with the utmost expedition, dreading he was worse; I found however that was not the case, 
I 3 and 
( 1.9^) 
and when I was Seated by him he Spoke as follows, “I would not my dear girl “have'disturbed you, but that I have “a great deal to say, and am generally “better able to Speak in the morning. “I am ill — very ill ray daughter, and “I am ruined, my affairs are now in ** the most desperate state, — you have “reason indeed my dear to hate me —. “your father has undone himself and his child.. — A. fatal propensity for gaming has been ray destruction, my “fortune unfortunately all in my power and not a Shilling of it now is left, even from this house I must im mediately remove, stis the property 
“of another — that other, ” -- he here 
looked up at me Emily, with a look of anguish, — it was Succeeded by one of more wild despair, and in a frantic manner he caught hold of both my hands — “’tis in your power Caroline, “(Said he) to restore your father to “life and to happiness; these pos 
I “sesiions may again be his own — oh 
my child, everything is in your ‘‘ power— — — name but the 
method, 
I 
R ^ 
( 199 } 
‘‘ method, Sir, ” returned I. — “Alas “(Said he) can I hope for your con Sent, 
“— yet oh -- -- -- -- “The gentleman to 
“whom I have lost the most considerable 
part of my fortune is a Mr. | 
Falkland; he — he has Seen — and is j 
“charmed with you. I naturally re“ “my losses, and he proposed “if you would consent to marry him “to refund everything to me.” — I turned from my father to conceal the starting tear, I grew pale as death, and felt the most dreadful sensations of 
i 
grief and Surprise— — “aged father “(Slid he, holding up his hands) 
“beseeches of his child to restore him “to life and to happiness— — my “Caroline! I entreat, I Supplicate “you, not to let your parent die and “expose yourself to misery and ruin.” 
• -- -- What my Emily, could I Say, ^ — I 
was stlent, and Sat motionless with agony and surprise. “Falkland, (Said “he) is a man of fashion, family, and : i 
had a very noble fortune, — it is still j 
“a noble one indeed, his person and || 
“manners are' more than agreeable; | 
I 4 if h 
'■ i j 
i ■. ^ 
L 
Jl ' 
( 200) 
if not already attached — it is noi 
Sacrifice to accept of him.” -- -- -- -- -- - 
** But Sir, [interupted I] if he is a “gamester, the connexion must be ‘‘ fatal — be astured, want and distress“ “Succeed this boasted fortune.” “Do not be So selfish, [returned my “father] I am certain: when he is married however, he will quit the “dangerous pradfice. Be noble my “child, — be truly great my Caroline, “in relinquishing Something to a “father : distress of mind the most j “poignant has brought on my illness, 
: “the load removed, I Should Soon rei 
“cover, — but if you are inflexible, — 
“if you are destitute of feeling— — “— this one struggle — would you, 
I “Save your parent.” -- -- -- -- 1 was indeed. 
my Emily neither destitute of parental I love nor unfeeling, I was quite over 
I come,., and sunk in the arms of my 
feeble Supplicating father, I was a little I relieved by weeping unrestrained. — • 
I An hour I believe elapsed before either 
of us was able to Speak, — I first broke II Silence, by saying I had never Seens 
I Miu. 
■-:, A 
•vd 
'Will: 

if 
irr 
.) 1. 
f' 
'( 201) I 
- 
4 ijj 
Mr. Falkland, “no, [Said he] it was | “in public he Saw you, but tho’ j 
“he did not then strike your attention, j 
“Lam Sure you will like him, — conj 
“Sent my Caroline; ere it is too late; 
“consent, — when you See me a breathless corpse, — then will you tc regret.” — ^ enough, enough, returned I, — I consent: : folded me to his heart; called me a thousand tender names — his more than human Caroline. ■ 
— I was stupiiied with griek and Seemed as if I had pronounced my eternal doom. 
— Doyovrnot grieve for your friend, yet can you blame her, miy Emily. — 
Oh Belford! Belford! with what anguish do' 1 “now recollect you, ^ — yet; my dear, notwithstanding his attention, he nevereave me room to think 
'O 
I was beloved by him, he seemed always restrained. — So Sudden, So unexpected the change, I think all that has. passed a dream, — oh Emily! — and have I indeed consented to marry a person I have never Seen, — I am, almost in a state of insupportable gries — there is Something So bargain 
I 5 ing 
( 202) 
ing in this affair my dear; my Sentiments and ideas of everything, are exalted to a romantic degree, my affections another’s, how can I marry this Mr. Falkland, a gamelter — the name is a bond for ruin. — A true gamester, as he is fallen from virtue, So generally is an adept in every other vice, he is lost to the Softer passions and incapable of acting in any of the duties of life with exact propriety; he regards a wife only for her fortune, or transiently like your friend,, for her charms his temper is continually capricious, his morals ruined, he esteems religion as unnecessary, holds marriage as a form and restraint, whilst the unjustifiable astections he terms love. Thus his Sentiments debased, his ideas bewildered, a gamesten is entirely absorbed, and his whole pleasures wrapped up in his employment, — the last hour of his mi Spent life approaches. — then, and perhaps not till then, is he convinced of his errors, convinced that a gaming table is 
always 
t 203 / 
always prejudicial and but too often the ruiri of those who frequent them, and yet a gamester is to be the husband of your 
Caroline Sedley. 
/ 
« 
f 
Letter 
* 
t I 
LETTER XXIX 
« 
SIR E D W, A a H A VIL A N D T: O t11%. 
HO N. C A P T. B E L FORD. 
Bathe 
3o, Miss Sedley and you have bid: adieu to Mountford Abey — poor Belford, how far gone in, the hopeless, pasiion. — Believe me my friend, the relinquishing your own, happiness is too great a Sacrifice to ceremonious delicacy, or the first woman on earth; do not than, marry lady Amelia Belville. -- — You tell, me youthink you. 
are not indifferent to, the former, and you alfo believe the latter ismiotpre poffeiled in your favour. I know you to be the most generous of men; the relinquistiing five thousand a year, you will think trifling in comparison of the postesiion of the lovely Sedley, especially when at Lord belford’s death, So noble a fortune is yours. 
Well.darry, but I have Seen another of your visitants here, miss Villars — 
the 
4. 
/ 
i 205:) 
the beauty in minature, as I call hen — One night last week She made her appearance, for the first time in the rooms, stie is very graceful j. our friendi with a number of bucks of the er///c club,, (the name of our new. Society) levelled our glasses and declared hei to he' Very pretty; h\)x So d. — -- ‘d little X as her fortune however is large enough,, as Acres says, to Pay the. national debt,,, we alhagreed She was very well for wise, arid‘. some of us may condescend to take the little Soul seriously I; am inclined to believe you have made Some impresiion on her hearfi I will', tell you how L discovered, this jat the; rooms! was introduced to her, and ai few evenings after we met in the South parade; a large party of us happened: among other conversation on fine arts to mention painting, you know I am excestively fondof: it, and have a little profile of you in a ring which k drevr myselfj as it is reckoned fine, I took, it off and Showed it to the gentleman next me, who handed it to the nexfi 
and fd on until it reachedcthe hand 
gs 
( 200 } 
’of Sophia, ^ — “Oh, it is just himself (Said She, her eyes Sparkling with delight) “it is Capt. Belford indeed.” -^ Her colour went and came alternately, her bosom heaved, and I asfure you Harry, She was not a little agitated at beholding this little resemblance of you; you are really a dangerous man, 
half the women dying for you. -- -- -- -- -1 
must now tell you, that receiving no answer to the letter I wrote Miss Harley, I Sent Kingstey from Woburn 
Hall to -- -- Shire with directions to the 
cottage I had difeovered her in near morton hoiife i he found it out, but it was Shut up and no one there — thus Henry she sties me; I am Sure however in Some wood or labyrinth I Shall yet find her, Since feclusion is evidently cecilia’s taste, — taste, ah! Belford I am the cause!! stiuns the world — because She cannot appear in it as She ought. 
“By Solitude and deep Surrounding firades, but more by bashful uiodefty concealed.’' 
Thompson 
Well 
V 
( 207) 
Well, a truce with the pretty rufk tic, I dont like to recollect her. You have heard to be Sure, my old flame. emily’s match with young Woodley is all over. -- Adieu Belford, 
E. Haviland, 
. ^ 
/ 
s 
k 
0 
Letter 
( 2o8) 
LETTER XXX 
MISS SEDLEY TO MISS: seyamour,. 
London., 
xhave Seen Falkland my Emily — At. our first interview,, I am Sure I, appeared very awkward, — he could not wonder at it, my Situation was Sufficiently embarrasiing to apologise for anything, I was stiff, formal and not all; Tnyjelf — you know I have 'pride my 
dear, — it was humbled. -- -- -- Your' 
Caroline was mortified at being thus Sold, She might Say. — Mr. Falkland is about five and twenty, and has a large manly person, and a face without being; regularly handsome, extremely agree able, his nose aquiline and his teeth fine; he is pale and looks worn out with.dislipation, but his air displays ' the utmost dignity and elegance, — a dignity partly the result of excessive haughtiness; his manners are insinuating, and from what I have been able to judge, the deepest art conceals his 
Sentiments, 
^ %e>p )} 
Sentiments: on the whole my dear,, though pleasing enough, and he is what: all the world calls a very fine fellow,, 
■ — he is by no means the man I Should ehoofe for a husband— — my Emily I how all men Sink on a comparisote with Belford. — There are many objections I have to this Mr. Falkland, — tho’ he profefses himself highly delighted at my acquiescence, yet I am Sure he is incapable of real permanent affection : a Short-lived' pasiibn may exist, — that fiame extinguished, I have everything to dread; his hauteur is, insufferable, and in taking your Caroline he Seems rather to confer, than receive an obligation, and in this Shows, a want of delicacy,, of love, and of respect; he Seems very deep read for his age in the world and has if I may be allowed theexprestion, run the gauntlet of fashionable vices; he is a gamester,, a jockey, ridiculousty extravagant in his dress, equipage and appointments; he is everything that has a chance of ruining himself; while unmindful of this, from an indolence, thoughtleff, ^ 
ness 
( 21 or) 
i 
nefs and inconiideration, he is a perfect • pupil of 'pleasure— — Seymour, I have made a great progress in the discovery of his character, which only adds to my anguish at the idea of 
becoming his vise;; -- may suppose 
I Seem in a new world here, never you know having been in London before, for more than a few days with Mrs. Osborne in my annual visits to Tny father. 
The confusion, bustle and noise, diffracts my head, I have not yet been out, but Shall immediately, as my parent is now quite recovered. What a change will ease of mind produce! his indifposition inftantaneously fled on gaining my consent, — whatever I may fusfer, I am happy in the reflectiqa of a.ssording, him felicity. 
/ 
\ 
Letter 
\ 
( ill) 
LETTER XXXI 
iron. CATT. BELFORD TO Slk EDWRAD HAVILAND, BART. 
Eelfordl. 
I A M here, Edward — and here truly unhappy, the lovely sedley’s image, ever present to my thoughts, but torn from my eyes, “Say is not absence “death to those who love.” 
My father and all the family arc amazed at the alteration in your friend, — their gay animated, Harry Belford, once w: ild with Spirits, is now Silent, 
reserved, and thoughtful.: This day 
is Lady Amelia Belville expected. I am really out of temper with myself — r with all the wmrld, and never less disposed to See her; I wish adverso winds had detained her. 
You amaze me by wtat you Say of miss Villars, I never was. in the least particular to her, and convinced She 
was equally indifferent to me. -- -- 
Heavens, from my window I See a 
carriage 
O 
\ 3 j 
t 
ilent, — gratified her, and for the •emainder of the evening Sat looking it her w ith as much cool indifference, is I would at a carnation or Some 
Dther vegetable beauty; -- -- -- She is 
certainly changed, Haviland; at our erst Interview there was an elegant rein of Use and Spirit in her manner and conversation, which is dropped entirely now — will not judge hastily how sver — rshe is fatigued perhaps. Adieu. 
y 
Letter, 
t 
( 2p2) 
carriage driving up the lawn, it is Amelia I am convinced, two years are elapsed Since we have met! I ara distressed, agitated. — and must throw asidc my pen. 
IN CONTINUATION. 
Well, I am returned to ray letter and' my friend, — I went down when I lest off, and opened thedtawing room: door with as heavy a heart as a diffatissied husband, instead of an impatient lover. 
^ K 
Lady Amelia looked dazzlingly beautiful, as ever, yet has not in my eyes half the attractions of Caroline; She is too regularly beautiful too, — but I am very hard to please— — was agitated — confused - — extremely cmbar.raffed at feeing me, — to what to attribute this I am totally at a loss— — is not the sweet confusion of alk powerful love, — our sttuation to be Sure, to this only cani impute her delicate distress. — I strove to' lead her into conversation and made a thoutend vain, efforts, She was disposed to be 
stlent, 
( 2ii| } 
\ 
LETTER XXXII 
MISS SEDLEY TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
London, 
t “K' 
X HE town is very full, and I have heen at all the theatres, the Pantheon, and at every place of amusement : were not my Situation So cruelly disfreitmg as it is, I Should be highly delighted at the brilliant, and to me amazing Scenes into which I am now introduced; I am quite bev/ildercd, Emily — to these haunts of the fashionable, Mr. Falkland is my constant attendant j he is •certainly very agreeable, but amidst the astiduities of a lover, it requires a fund of discernment, and that even in the end may be deceived, to know what kind of husband he will make. — < Ah! my friend, had I been belford’s choice— — oh! the rccolleflion of him avaunt. Falkland has taken a house in St. james’s fquare; our furniture is Splendid, elegant equipages are bespokc, in Short every preparation 
{ 215) 
•tion is making, and the day of sacrifice— — sacrifice it is my dear when 
I do not love him,) is appointed -- -- -. 
for an acquaintance, — for a chaperon, for everything my Emily but a husband, 1 would Select him from the generality, — but oh, my dear! — tears deface the lines I have penned. Have you heard anything of Woodley, if poshble banisli his idea from your breasf, but you will Say it is easy to prescribe for others. I am my Emily, 
Your faithful 
t 
C A R oxr N S SOUTHEAST D L E T, 
h 
/ 
Letter 
i 
216 5 
LETTER xxxm. 
MRS. FALKLAND TO mtss SEYMOUR. 
London. 
I AM married my Emily, — this 
auspicious day gave your Caroline to Mr. Falkland — oh, my friend, what a cruel change has a Short time introduced — I look back on a few weeks wffien I 'was at Mountford Abbey. The 
happiest of beings — and now -- our 
wmdding was private, and I have stolen this opportunity to my only happiness, that of laying my heart before luy Emily — a heart, I am covered with blushes whilst I write it; a heart too much devoted to Belford; ’tis late at night, my Spirits are exceedingly de pre (Ted — I could weep my Emily. The stlence of everything at this hour, adds to the gloomy horror of my mind, a horror the effect of a presentiment of the future fate of your friend. 
Night Sable goddess from her ebon throne, now stretches forth 
‘‘ her 
t 2'i7) 
V « 
her leaden Sceptre o’er the Siumber “ing world. — — Nor eye, nor listening“ 
“an object finds, -- -- -- creation 
^ sleeps ^’tis as the general pulse o“ 
“stood still and nature made a pause — an awful pause prophetic of “her end.” 
Alone and at liberty to vent my grief, I here at this awful hour indulge its luxuriance. — I would my Emily, be the most enviable of wonren were 
I this day the wife of Belford, ^ but 
why think of him— — dare Say half the belles of my acquaintance are hurt at my getting Falkland j he is indeed a very firie fellow, — but then — he is not calculated to steal my affec ' tions. I cannot I find bring myself to place a friendship in him, it is not to he wondered at; your Caroline reared in the utmost retirement, her first emergency from 'this her visit to the countess of Mountford, where though 
I Saw more of the 'world than I had hitherto done, I Saw the most delightful objects, accustomed to astbeiate with the amiable, and my own mind 
K So 
( ai) 
So replete with propriety, how can I indeed place a confidence in a man whose Sentiments I fear are directly opposite, his character that of a firsf rate libertine, the most distipated of men. As to reclaiming him, I do not build on it, he is too wild, too far gone in the vortex of vice, and too young; nor am I at the age of nineteen'at all disposed to enter on the arduous talk 
of a reformer. -- -- -- Adieu 
% • 
•* 
/ 

Letter 
( 2^9. 
LETTER XXXIV 
rion.wir. BELFORD TO SIR EDWARD | 
HAVILAND, BART. 
I 
Belford. 
I DON’T know, upon my Soul, what to make of this Lady Amelia, — reserved, confused, and diflresiingly ambiguous is She now — If I but touch her hand She trembles : heaven and earth 'what is the matter with her! tho’ She hourly sees preparations making for our marriage, yet the Slightest hint at it from me, the least tender exprestion throws her into a state of unfpeakabie •embarrastment, She is agitated, a tear steals from her sparkling eyes, and ' 
she turns away dissatisfied. vv'hat 
a fate therefore is mine! — Amelia certainly loves another, for her have I relinquished Caroline, — relinquished happiness. Adieu, 
H. Belford; 
K z Letter 
4 
( 220) 
LETTER XXXV 
THE SAME TO THE SAME. ' 
SIE senigma is Solved, — would you - believe it Sir Edward, Amelia is already married, — what strange vislicitudes! — I must Summon recollection and acquaint you wdth everything. — Since I wrote last there was not the least variation in her behaviour, which hourly displeased me more: yesterday evening I was walking in the wilderness and perceived her through the trees, She strove to avoid me, but I took a cross path and surprised her in tears. — “It gives rae infinite concern [Said I] ‘‘ to See your ladyship indulge this “melancholywhere is that delight“ “Spirit and vivacity? — those Smiles, “of joy which you bestowmd on other 
“countries is denied in England.” - 
“Oh Mr. Belford, ” Said she! and 
weptafresh. lied her into a moss house near us and Sat down by her— — “
y Suspicions, 
4 
%. 
y 
( 221 j 
« 
“suspicions, Amelia, [Said I] at your “ccnduct are various, the most pre“ “is, 1 must think myself “disagreeable to you.” - — Oh Harry, [replied ihe, turning away her blusii ing face bedewed with tears] I never never can be yours — I am already another’s. — — You may guess ray astonishment — I stood indeed almost petrified, — but not in the least displeased— — ‘‘ know [Said She] 
“Col. Lovell travelled with you, I “admired him exceedingly, which oc“ “Some little embarrassment“ “might have perceived in me “when we met in Savoy; that admi “ration I Soon discovered was recipro “cal; he parted with you at Turin “and stew after me to Bologna; he “confessed his passton and I broke“ “engagements to you by marry“ “the Colonel, — you must my dear “Harry, pardon the anxiety ray “inexplicable behaviour has given “you : Lovell and I parted in Italy, 
“and it was agreed between us as “Soon as I confested our union he 
K 3 ‘‘ Should 
(■ 222 )■ 
Should, come over. — When I arrived at Belford, I perceived every one So “charmed at the idea of our union, 
“that however blameable my con“ “I could not bring myself“ “to damp, their joy by “ov/ning my Situation : • — unused to “concealment (proceeded She) I. bore. ‘‘ it very badly, a continual dejection “preyed on my Spirits, I dreaded the “just displeafure of my guardians,, the rqsentment of Lord Belford, and “could not Summon, resolution to. 
“break the affair to any of them : I know you to be generous and in“ 
“and you vctll therefore “pardon my union and not having “come to an eelaircisfement Sooner, 
“which would have enabled yoii; 
“to make a happier choice.” 
Here the lovely Belville ended, and. left me the most amazed and at the same time the happiesf of mentshe is an enchanting woman, now at least that 1 am not obliged to consider her as 
O 
Such, I think her truly charming, her Sweet conffdencq delighted me j love is 
Soi 
2^2 S j 
So common, that the friendship of a woman whose person has Sufficient attractions to" excite that palhon in others, to me is infinitely pleasing, 
Still however friendship answers between persons f the same Sex, every Sentiment of the. heart can then be more freely declared, the reliance on each other is greater, and the whole attachment is of a Still more delicate ■ ^ and reiinedv nature, it is unstained, and a true friend is amongst; the first; and the most: inestimable of blessings 5 but pardon the digression I have made, 
I must return to my fubjecti. 
This discovery— — release from bondage I may call it, really threw me into a delirium of joy: I astured her from a thorough knowledge of Mr. Lovell, I was convinced he was perfectly deserving of her, and that my interest Should be joined to theirs to effect a reconciliation with all the family — I’ led lady Amelia into the house and to lady belford’s library, where the affair was again difeovered, and my amiable father tho’ evidently 
K 4 disappointed, ' 
I 
/ 
f 224 )' 
disippointcd, Said her ladysliip was the besf'judge who could make her happy, and he only regretted another had been preferred to his Harry. 
Thus am I at liberty, — Surely this change in affairs was the most unexpected ly blessed that could have been.. 
'\ 
1 
- *■ * s 
I i 
% 
Letter 
\ 
- 
/ 
( 225) 
LETTER XXXVI 
. / j -■ 
THE. SAME TO THE SAME. 
Belford. 
What vicislitudes! — indeed Haviland, 
I think all that has pafsed a dream. — Amelia and your friend have both wrote to Lovell and will, impatiently expect him in England; her guardians are reconciled, and the five thousand a year devolves on me. Lord Belford is. not near as much mortified as I feared he would from his attachment to the belville’s : he is the most indulgent of parents; I have confessed. to him my partiality for Miss Sedley, and this dear man lias consented to let me pay my addresses. to her : as he has a great deal of pride, I feared he would have wished me to think of a more exalted connexion in point of title and fortune, but he Said the astections of the best of Sons Should not be blasted by him ^ the carriage is at this moment at the door to convey 
K 5 me 
(; 2- 2 6' > 
\ 
me from Belford to. Londoner — what 
r ^ f 
rapture to think I Shall again behold my Caroline — call her my Caroline indeed and make her minfe, with what impatient ardour will 1 count the hours until 1 arrive in the metrp^. polls. - - ' 
i ( ' ■ 
oh’tis well the joys of meeting jif 
“Pay the pangs of absence, i 
Elfe who could bear k, 
y 
\ 
\ 
« 
Litter 
( 227) 
'r 
LETTER XXXVII 
I 
MRS. FALKLAND TO MISS SLYMOUR. 
i • 
London. 
i^fter Spending a few days with ray fatherr we have removed to our own house in St. Jamesls square. -- It is very beautiful, but the expenses into which Horatio (that is Mr. falkland’s name) is - launching, is. I think too great for his fortune, a fortune which though large is not as much as Mr. Sedley represented; it has been greatly Shattered, the encumbrances are vasi, and instead of being paid off, they are hourly, increased by; a fucceliion of unnecessary extravagancies.. I. have been introduced to his family, and a Set of people of the first distinction with whom by my husband’s desire I am to keep up a strict intimacy and to make my appearance; at' all their parties, at every fashionable public place and to give Splendid entertain ^ meats; this is the conrse of life he has 
laid • 
i 
i 228,) 
laid out for your Caroline. I mull 
throw aside. my pen and repair to dress, as in the evening I am to be at a ball. 
I have been greatly agitated my Emily, I can Scarce find words to tell you how. — When I left off I went to. my toilette, about ten o’clock I fet out for Mrs. L — ’s, I sat down, and about an hour after I came in was teased to death by a conceited conversation. and indeed volley of impertinence of a party behind me; I listened to the whole conversation, and at last oneof them Said pretty loudly, “■ he is by “much the handsomest man in the 
room, ” — I thought this compliment was paid to Falkland who had just then entered, and looked uncommonry elegant, but found I was mistaken, by the addition of the officer, ' — this Speech made, me turn about to look at the party which I had not hitherto done j I found the person who had made it, was a young lady about Seventeen, with a rather handsome exprestive face whose features were Set off by a little 
rouge, 
4*4 
( 229 } 
rouge, and her black eyebrows Seemed like velvet of that colour for diamonds, formed to Set off her large eyes which She fixed on me, and had in them Such a bright fiery look that I could not bear them, and turned mine to the officer She had been praising, — it was Harry Belford, — he was drefsed in regimentals and looked more conquering than ever; being Slopped by, a party of gentlemen at the foot of the room he did not perceive me; my heart beat violently, I felt myself grow faintish and was dreadfully agitated. 
I rose to come away, when Mr. Falkland came up to me and taking me by the hand presented me to the young lady I described to you, as Miss Flarriet Vinhurst, a relation of his: as Soon as this Salutation was over I Stepped out of the room, happily unobserved by Belford., — I came home and pasted a night of the most restless disquietude, 
harry’s too charming image was present to rny thoughts, — why did I See him, why did Seeing him bring back with I 
Such doubled — Such reiterated Source 
the 
1 
I 
(: 230) 
the remembrance of all' our happy, Scenes at Mountford, —!, am highly culpable in Suffering my mind a moment to dwell on; him, yet ah my Emily, we cannot always command. qur thoughts. 
adieu.my dean. 
» 
I 
e 
» 
/ 
Letter 
'( 23.1.) 
LETTER XXXVIII 
THE IION. CAPT. BELFORD, TO slri 
Edward haviland, bart. 
London.. 
Oh,,. Haviland!, Lam the most unhappy of men — Caroline is already 
married -- -- What a cruel destiny was 
mine— — really frantic, with de,, — Had I never gone to Mountford— — I never seen her — Oh, Edward, language cannot paint ray anguish and regret. -- 1 stew to London 
on the wings of impatient love: it was about eleven at night when I ar -- rived there and went to our house in Piccadilly. Mrs.l — — ray aunt, is; you know next doori, and by the crowd, of carriages I perceived She received company. It was too late to think of going to Mr. sedley’s, which I purposed deferring until morning but not being fatigued or at all difpos ed to steep, from the ardour of my mind, I drefsed and went to Mrs. L — '^’s Baulk Soon after I came in, 
Falkland 
C 232 } 
f, 
Falkland, who you and I knew at Bath, came up to me : he told me he was married — “Who is the Lady ?” said I: “miss Sedley, ” replied he, with a careless air. Heavens,; what was not the excruciating anguish that moment gave me! — my Caroline married, and married to Horatio Falkland — he is unworthy of her, though certainly a handsome, agreeable, iriirdious, fine fellow; but I thought there was a peculiar refinement in her that would not have tempted her to unite herself to the completesf rake, fop, and fpendr thrift n town. As old Sedley, however, is a profefsed gamester, he has probably Sicrificed her. I never, Edward, can pardon Lady Amelia — She robbed me of happiness. and of Caroline; her long concealment of her' marriage destroyed us all, for my Beloved might not have been, united unr till my arrival. I vv7ell know Falkland he will make her the vorst of husbands. My anguish at losing her is redoubled by the object She has got. — Oh, Haviland, I am for ever torn from felicity! 
Letter 
( 233) 
LETTER XXXIX 
MRS. FALKLAND TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
Horatio this morning brought 
miss Vinhnrfl to See me: She was So Silent and So reserved, which was jb unnatural from a girl of Seventeen to a woman of nineteen, that I was not much pleased with her. She is a distant relation of his, and he Seems to pay her great attention. Harriet is the only daughter of a Country Clergyman, and a fortune of four thousand pounds being lately left her, She was Sent to a London boarding fchool to finish her education. You cannot, my dear Emily, imagine anything more fashionable than the life we lead — a whirl of amusements Succeed each other, and perpetually engage us. At breakfast we settle how we Shall dis pose ourselves for the morning, a principal part of which I am obliged to Sacrifice'to dresling, and Mr. Falkland to riding or driving, and if the day is 
had, 
( 234), 
Al 
bad, the coffeehouses and a party at billiards.' At four I am usualiy ready to go out and pay visits. At dinner we always have company, and' one night in the week is particularly appropriated, for parties, the remainder is disposed of in a thousand various places. If Horatio and I meet in public, it is merely by accident; and often at the Theatres I See him reel into' an opposite box, quite inebriated, and without taking the least notice of me; My engagements 'often keep me out very late, and. at three or four in the morning Palhlandi perhaps returns from the gaming table. 
We met with a disagreeable adventure a few days ago. I was in his phaeton (which is very high), and driving Smartly up Oxford road, one of the hind wheels at his stde came off; we had four horses, and' they plunged excestively; he jumped out and I was doing the Same, when I. Should infallibly have come to the ground and been greatly hurt, had not a gentleman who was riding near us 
wdth; 
( 235) 
with amazing quickness jumped off his horse, and before Falkland could get round to my fide, caught me precipitately in his arms and prevented the fall; he held me in them until, our chariot which followed came up and placed rae in it. I asked Horatio who ray alert preserver was, and he told rae a Mr. Mordaunt. The next morning he Sent a polite card of inquiry after my health, and being one of pksvxarxdis fajhionahle companions, he is introduced, as, a visitor here: he ia agreeable and elegant, and pays me no jittle attention.. 
Adieu my dear, 
C. Falkland 
t 
V 
\ 
ll 
S T T E 
(' 23& > 
LETTER XL 
9' 
THE silme TO THE SA m*. 
It is Some time since I wrote last 
pardon me, my dear, and affure yourself no engagements will ever prevent my correspondence with my beloved Seymour. I have got a visttor in the house, and one I would really excuse, — miss Vinhurst. Falkland made the proposal of her coming to me j he Said her fa there wished to take her from the boarding school, and the poor girl was grieved at going to the country, and staying a winter with us would be very agreeable to her. It is certain that a female companion is destrable, as the best husbands must often be absent j but though a neglected wife, did not feel So much, as am Seldom at home; bestdes, this young Lady is by no means Suited to my tasteshe has a fund of confidence, afsarance, and various imperfections, with a slight knowledge of mustc and drawing, and 
a few 
[ 237 ] 
a few words of French and Italian. She is setup as accomplished; the ignorance of the country is blinded with a n art unbecoming it, and indeed She has more knowledge of the world than many reared in the busiesi Scenes at double her age.. Mordaunt is now a constant visitor here, his attention is disagreeable to me, as it grows particular, and Seems • to be observed by others. If I come into a room and he afterwards follows, looks are immediately exchanged by Some or other of the company, and he liimself is too officious, for ever of my party in public, for ever Seated by .me.; .and yet as his conversation is coldly polite. So I cannot bring myself to insisf on his not being with me, which would appear as if I conceived myself admired by him. — A woman in Such a case has a nice part to act. 
Adieu ray Emily, 
Caroline 
/ 

I 
( 238 ■) 
LETTER XLI 
TTIIE HON. CAPT. BELFORD TO SJR. 
EDWARD HAVILAND, BART. 
I Left London Soon after I concluded my last letter, and returned back to Belford with very different sensations from those wdth Which I had left it, — • I returned for ever debarred from felicity. A few days afterj to our great Surprise and joy. Col. Lovell arrived; he had Set out long before our letters had been wrote, unable to bear a longer Separation from his wife. I had the pleasure of again presenting amelia’s hand to him, and with it the estate of ^5000 a year. They long refused it, but I persisced, and they are now one of the happiest 'couples in England. I never am so delighted as when instrumental to the gratification of others, and felt more real pleasure at the relinquisliing this fortune, than I could pollihly have done at being given one of treble its value. I hm 
now 
t 
I 
< 239) 
now at quarters with the regiment; 
I believe we Shall be ordered abroad, 
Tit which L am not Sorry. — Torn from till that is dear to me in my native country, ’tis of little importance where I pass the remainder of my life. 
I am, Haviland, ch. 
Belford. 
« 
\ 
I 
A 
( 240) 
LETTER XLII 
MRS. FALKLAND TO miss SEYMOUR. 
London, 
X HOUGH but three months married, you cannot imagine what havoc is already making in our fortune. — Falkland and me are Seldom at home or alone, but we are, I find — as I foresaw, all love extinguislied j he is Supercilious, his temper various as the winds. As in public I am totally neglected by him, So of course as i am young and agreeable in my person, am Surrounded with all the pretty feu lows of our acquaintance : Tho’ you know me too well, to suppose I give them any more encouragement than what Situation or politeness calls for, yet lafsureyou Emily, I am always an object of (to me painful) attention. — Mr. Mordaunt is amongst the first in my train; his particularity is very disagreeable. At this mode of life I am greatly displeased, and amazed. — A 
married 
t 
( 243) 
married woman in London is, I find, quite the fashion, and if handsome, and lives in a fashionable style, a Subject for admiration. My natural modesty is taken by miss Vinhurst and a few like her, for art and affectation, and by those who judge more kindly, for the blushing timidity of a country girl. -- ^ — I had a letter yesterday from Lady Eliza Mountford : She informed me her Sister and her had been on a vistt to miss Villars, whose affection for Belford receives new poignancy from time. She is Settled in the country, and tho’ but of age, resolved never to marry. She has been lately at Bath, at which gay place She took leave of the brilliant Scenes of the world, and 
is fixed in continual retirement. -- 
Horatio I find knows Belford, and I heard mention that he has joined his regiment. 
Adieu. 
Caroline Falkland. 
L Letter 
* 
- # 
( 244) 
LETTER XLIII 
t 
•MRS. FALKLAND TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
London. 
My dear Emily must have been 
amazed at my long Silence — a Silence, my friend, the result of my mind being tortured by Surprise and anxiety, I can hardly think all that is passed a 
reality. -- Mr. Sedley is dead; and 
would you believe it, Emily, — I am 
not his daughter. -- 1 have made a 
useless Sacrifice, and never knew true misery until now : — But let me collect iny Scattered ideas and acquaint you 
with the whole. -- -- Some days after 
the conclusion of my last, I heard he vas ill, and he Sent a hasty Summons to me. I went to him and found his last moments nearly approaching. I cannot tell you, my dear, how deeply I was affected— — — Caroline (said“ “I am unworthy your affection — 
“You may look on me as the basest ‘‘ of men — I have a great deal to dis 
“close 
( 245) 
i 
close — may that discovery ease my “tortured mind.” -- -- Gracious Heaven 
1 what was mv amazement at 
J 
these words! — ^ — After Some preludes wtich it is unnecestary to insert, he began as follows “Out of a very “large family none were distipated “men but a brother of mine and my“ “We Spent our fortunes and “then became fashionable exiles, by “leaving our eousitry abruptly and “Settling on the borders of the Lake of Geneva. My brother had been “married; his wife was long Since “dead, but he had a fon, whom we ‘‘ educated in our retirement between “us, and when arrived at years of “maturity, George Sedley promised“ “be a much better man than his “father or his unele. We were all exceedingly fond of the country we “were in, and at last my brother ‘‘ died. He had little or nothing to “leave his Son, who however Soon “after captivated a genevese lady ‘‘ who had a fortune of, ^‘10, 000, and gave him her hand. In a year after 
L 2 y She 
( 246) 
she had a daughter; — that daughter “was Caroline. As Soon as She had “given birth to you, She died herself. “Language is inadequate to express “the Sufferings of young Sedley at the loss of his wife; it preyed on ‘‘ his health and in a few months he “followed her, conjuring rae on his “death to be the Sole guardian and protector of his child. Your for“ “[which was that your mother “brought] was in my hands, quite “uncontrolled, as our relations in England knew nothing of George sedley’s connexion, and the rela “tions of the genevese lady were So “highly displeased that they never ^ took the least notice of you. As “death had made Such ravages in our “little family, I felt myself quite deserted in a.foreign country, and “made a resolution of returning to ‘‘ my native kingdom. It was on my journey thither, that I formed the destgn of passtng you as my daugh “ter; there was no obstacle to the “action, as owing to our Mattered 
“circumstances, 
( 247 )' 
circumstances, my brother and 1 “had lived in the utmost Solitude j “my nephew’s match had been pri “■ vate, all conspired to favour my “destgn, and I pretended on my ar“ “that I had married at Geneva, 
“my wife was no more, and Caroline, 
“not yet two years old, was the off“ “of our union. My motive “for this base concealment was your “fortune : I Spent it all, except w hat was expended on your education, 
“and a run of luck at the gaming“ “Supported me in elegant ashu ence, during your stay with Mrs. 
“osborne: that luck changed, and “everything of mine became the “property of Mr. Falkland; it was “then I Sent for you from Mountford “Abbey, Can you ever pardon my “baseness? My illness was feigned ** to make you marry him : had you known me to be only an uncle, you “would never have consented; but duty Surmounted everything. I “knew your exalted notions of obe “dience and Sacrificed you to Horatio, 
L 3 “though 
« 
( 248) 
though Sensible of his unworthiness: “for my pretended illness, it pleased “Heaven to visit me with real indis “position — I felt that the last hour “of a mif fpent life was arrived, and “Sent for you to acquaint you with “the whole and to receive your for“ 
“Falkland, most 
“amiable Caroline — may he not, like 
“me, ere it is too late, repent.” -* 
At those last words his voice began to falter, and he waved his hand for me to leave the room; I did So, but not until I assured him of my forgive ness. I came away in a state more eastly to be conceived by my Emily than for me to rfelate, — So Surprised * — and So Shocked — your Caroline a genevese, and only niece to Mr. Sedley. To refresh my dejected Spirits, I went to take an airing in Hyde Park. I had not proceeded far, when Seeing Some figures through the trees in a retired part, I watched more attentively and Saw Falkland walking with two noted ladies of the town. I drew in my head hastily and was happily 
unobserved, 
4 
( 249) 
unobserved, and returned home Silled with a thousand sensations. The discovery of my birth, my useless Sacrifice, [for never would I have made it but for a deserving father in distress] and the evident proofs that Horatio was the most abandoned of husbands;; cooperated powerfully on rae I Spent the day alone, and in the evening heard that Mr. Sedley had breath ^ his last, 
Adiein 
(' •, 
% 
♦ 
t 
( 
L 4 Letter 
/ 
( 250) 
LETTER XLIV 
% 
THE SAME TO THE S, AME. 
Mord aunt’s attention to me, 
and falkland’s to miss Vinhurst, hourly increases. The Sormer is certainly a man of the deepest design. I told you, as his conversation was coldly polite, I Suffered him to be my constant attendant, and now that he has engaged himself in the intimacy of a brother or a friend, that mask is thrown off, and the lover in every look and word is Seen. From this knowledge of his art he has not even my esteem, and I purpose contriving Some means to drop his acquaintance. Horatio Seems to take no notice of him or any other of my chaperons, which to me is the most painful neglect. Mr. sedley’s dying words of warning him, were not forgot by me j but he is So very distant that I was more perplexed how to enter on the tooic of affairs to him, than I would 
to 
( 25.1) 
to the utmost stranger: yesterday wc happened to be a few moments alone, and were sitting by each other on the Sopha, when he mentioned that he had lost a great deal the night before at brookes’s. “My dear Falkland [Said “I] I fear your pasfion for garaing “will utterly destroy our fortune; — • “believe me we are hourly launching “into unjustifiable expenses.” He looked at me with the utmost cutting, indifference in the world, and replied, he was the best judge how it Should be dispofed of. His particularity to Miss Harriet is evident. One evening lately I was going out,, and asked her: to accompany me; She refused, and when I came home at night I asked my maid while undrefiing, had miss Vinhurst been alone the whole evening? “Oh no. Madam, [replied fhel; “Mr. Falkland cams home Soon after 
you went out.” -- You know,. 
Emily, I am the least jealous of any human being j but this was undoubtedly Settled, as he never but when we have company is at home in the evening, — Adieu. 
L 5, Letter; 
( 252) 
LETTER XLV 
THE SAME TO THE SAME. 
London. ■ 
To what trials, my Emily, have I been accustomed— — IX gone off 
with Mifx Vinhurji. -- You were no 
doubt amazed at my being a month silent: I was unable to write, from the disquietude of my mind. — They decamped when I was out, and have embarked at Dover. -- — base, unworthy Harriet -- -- -- -- still more unworthy 
Falkland -- -- To what dangers have 
they left me exposed Our house 
is already Surrounded with creditors. — Distress— — awaits your 
Caroline. 
/ 
L E T T k 
I 
( 253) 
LETTER XLVI 
MISS SEYMOUR TO MRS. FALKLAND. 
Morton House. 
My letters have informed you how Sincerely I am grieved at your Situation : From experience am I a judge of asilidfions, and now, my dear, of the mo, fl: exquisitc joys. Prepare, my Caroline, to hear of the unexpected happiness of your Emily. 
You know what a length of time, to me ages, has elapsed Since I heard anything of Woodley. Several other gentlemen*s addresses I rejected; and lately Mr. Morton informed me that a Nobleman had made proposals to him for your friend, a Lord Eustace. The circumstance of his having first addressed my guardian, prepossessed me so much against him, that I would not consent to see him. My uncle for a long time in vain Solicited, and yesterday evening assured me he would 
be 
Several of her jsuer* re emitted as ubpeceltary. 
( 254) 
be very happy if I would consent only once to See him. I had with difficulty pronounced a four consent to this audience, when Mr. Morton hurried Into an adjoining room and brought in Lord Eustace, ray charming Charles Woodley. What Surprise, what ex tatic rapture that moment gave me! -- Your Emily fainted with excessive joy. — - — This unexpected interview, would have been a fine Subject for a painter certainly. And now, Caroline, as you are no doubt on the rack of curiostty,, I will not delay to gratify it. 
A few days after my uncle's vistt at the inn, old Mr. Woodley was Seized with a Severe fit of stcknefs, and Soon after died Shortly after, the decease of a relation left the title of Eustace and a large estate to Charles, who resolved not to return to your Emily until a proper time after his fathers death Should be elapsed, which he pasted in Settling his affairs, and resolved when he came to act the part he did, concerted between him and 
Mr. 
( 255) 
Mr. Morton, to have the pleasure of Surprising me. — — Cruel creature 1 — I wish I had had command of myself, and appeared with a Jang froid 
— but the ardent affection, of which he is now convinced I have for him, will certaiment ruin this dear disguised lover — this ambiguous Lord Eustace. 
Your three last letters are just brought me; by Some mistake they were detained in the office— — Heaven 1 how I am amazed at the discovery of your father; — and how strocked that Falkland has left you! — 
Ah, dear Caroline, how has the neves of your circumstances damped my every joy! 
0 
t 
I Letter 
: ii 
4 ti 
/ 
( 256) 
L E T TER XLVII 
> 
MRS. F4LKLAND TO MISS SEYMOUR. 
Richmond.. 
Oh, my Emily, — what danger have I escaped! — Would you believe it, Mordaunt carried me off. But let me acquaint you methodically with the vv^hole. I had but jusf Sealed my last letter, when a carriage drove up to the door, with the livery, cof a lady of my acquaintance, and a card from her, requesting I would Spend the day with her. Your unsuspicious friend, after appointing a person to Settle ' Some way with the creditors, stepped into the chariot. But how was I Shocked and Surprised to find it driving out of town as fast as posstble: no efforts of mine in calling tfe the Servants were effectual; they went on, and at last when we reached a Small house at Richmond, stopped. The first person I Saw was Mr. Mordaunt, who immediately on the door 
being 
/ 
( 257) 
being opened, catched me in his arms and carried me in, I fainted repeatedly, and only recovered to be sensible of the terror of my Situation. I kneeled to Mordaunt — I wept f but prayers and tears were vain. “The loveliest “of women (said he) is abandoned “by the worst of husbands— — will “She not then listen to the affections “She has inspired from me : I had “every reason to believe myself dear “to you — my assiduities and almost “continual presence you did not ob“ 
“to.” -- - “basest of men [inter“ 
“I] know that your being my “preserver, and politeness, were alone “my motives.” I burst again into tears, on which he got up and left the room, the door of which he locked. — In what a sttuation now was I left! — the windows, every place I found was fast Secured: different Servants came to me who brought in dinner, tea, and Suppen^ I did not taste anything; and at the latter of these meals a maidservant came in, and from the innocence of her countenance I ventured 
( 2s8 1 
tured to Speak to her.. “Your mas“ “reward for your care now [Said “I] believe me will be trifling.” I fliewed.her a large purse of gold and offered it for my liberty j after Some deliberation She consented, and promised the next morning to effect it. I need not tell you what a night of impatience I passed : I had candles burning,, and traversed' up and down the room most of the night: my fears, my anguish were repaid by the pleasure I felt at the Sight of returning day and with it the faithful domesfic unlocking the door of my prison. We came out through the gaisten, and from that on the road. I recollected my dear Mrs. ofborne’s. new house was near that; to it I made the maid direct me, and never was more rejoiced than when I found myself Safely lodged within its walls. I have not ventured out Since I came, for fear of Mordaunt, who is no doubt enraged at my elopement. — No news yet from Falkland— — request my dear.emily will pardon my not having congratulated 
( 259) 
1 
lated her. tomorrow I believe I Shall venture to town, and as Soon as your marriage is celebrated,, I request you will come to your unhappy f 
Caroline Falkland. 
s 
\ 
y * * 
\ 
Letter 
\ 
( 26o) 
LETTER XL VIII 
LADY EUSTACE TO LADY ELIZA 
MOUNTFORD. 
St. James*8 square, London. 
nr' 
X HE distress and agitation of my mind, at the sttuation of the earliest and most beloved of friends, prevented my answering the letters of congratulation from my dear girls at the Abbey. I am indeed the happiest of women in an unexpedled union with the object; of my affections almost from childhood; that felicity is not a little allayed by the unhappiness of Caroline. You are acquainted with her affection for Capt. Belford, her duteous Sacrifice, the discovery of her birth, and lastly, the basenefs of the worst of husbands in leaving her, which exposed her to the stratagems of Mr. Mordaunt. After her happy escape from him, she Spent Some days with Mrs. Osborne, and then returned; 
’ 
, y 
Fd 
( 26l) 
CD to London, where the Same day Lord Eustace and me arrived j — our joy at meeting was exquisite. My Caroline is greatly altered for the worse;; vivid bloom is gone, her eyes have lost their fire j anxiety and the life She vas obliged to lead, has wrought this change in her. 
In Continuation. 
Gracious Heaven, Eliza- -- -- -- 
hand trembles, — I cannot write. -- -- -- — 
Falkland, — yes, Falkland is returned. The intelligerice of his wife’s being carried off, notwithstanding the sup posed secresy with which it was contrived, transpired; it reached his ears at Calais, and he stew back: he is gone to Richmond, to call Mordaunt out. I must sty to my friend; what consolation She requires in trials like those— — Sedley, Sedley, never can I forgive thy iniquity in passing thyself as a Sather: I think I am much more enraged at him, (tho’ no more) than the dear Sufferer is herself. 
Falkland 
( 262) 
Falkland is returned unhurt: he has wounded Mordaunt Severely,, though" not mortally. Horatio is. So lost to all sense of propriety, that he was not in the least embarrafsed at feeing, his injured wdfe} he beheld her with the unconcern opconjirmeti vice. The duel was merely a point of honour, and by no means the result of affection for Caroline; he is indeed the most depraved" of his sex. 
Some days have elapsed, and Falkland is very ill; a violent fever has Seized him, I believe the effect of hurry and anxiety. The base Harriet, we have learned, finding he did not return, consoled herself for his loss.. a new lover, with whom She is now at Fontainbleau. The most a rniable of wives cannot be prevailed on to leave Horatio J She is constantly with him, at which, we are distracted. 
■ — I am Summoned' — he is worse.: -- - 
The loss of Falkland will not indeed be great. Adieu. 
Emily Eustace.. 
Letter 
i 263) 
LETTER XLIX 
THE HON. CAPT. BELFORD, TO SIR \ EDWARD HAVILAND, BART. 
Quarters. 
Again has your Harry an adjacent 
view of the land of happviness. ^i 
have this moment heard that Falkland is dead. The vicious courses he pursued, have, I suppose, put a period to his life so early. Caroline will yet 
be mine — enchanting thought! -- -- -- 1 
had nothing worth mentioning, which prevented my writing to you of late. 
My only pleasure was in the Society of Lovell and Amelia; they are fettled near Belford, and enjoy uninterrupted happiness : they adore each other, are charming in their persons, and So amiable in their dispositions, that they everywhere inspire esteem and admiration, verifying that beautiful line of thompson, 
“And good — the grace of all the country round.’* 
I am 
( 264) 
vl am just Setting off for London, impatient to behold my Caroline. I am again in ecstasies, — again the happiest of mankind. -- -- -- -- Surely Heaven 
will at last smile propitious — no new obstacle will arise, and unbounded joys await your friend. 
4 
X 
/ ' 
. ^ \ f 
* % 
1* 
t 
. i. - 
Letter. 
i 
« 
\ 
( 26 s) 
LETTER XLII 
SIR EDWARD HAVILAND, BART. TO THE HON. HENRY BELTORD. 
London. ^ ' 
May you indeed be happy, Belford, will be the ardent wish of your Haviland. — Falkland is dead. Though in London, I know nothing more, as the fatal turn in my own affairs ingrofied my attention entirely. 
A few weeks ago I left Bath and came hither. One morning about Seven o’clock, 'when I was coming from Some Scene of disfipation, and the beauty of the morning had induced me to walk home, I was proceeding Slowly up a retired Street, when the hall door of a house being open, a child of about three years old ran out, and fell at my feet on the flags. I took it up and perceived that it was extremely beautiful. A maidservant came for it, and from its being So very handsome, I was led to aslc whose child 
Jt 
C 2st6) 
h was : She replied, She did not know; that it lived with a Miss Harley in that house, who was dying. — You can better conceive than I represent my 
sensations -- -1 Said I knew the young 
lady and begged to be Showed in; accordingly the girl conducted me into a parlour, where I believe I pafsed half an hour in Silent surprise and grief. At last I took out my pocketbook and wrote on a Slip of paper, 
“It is with anguish and regret I “learn that you are ill — can you for a while forget your injuries, and “recollect Shat you once adored the “writer of fhese lines — consent my ‘‘ beloved Cdcilia to See him.” 
The jnmd carried this up, and Some time after She Sent down for me — I went — Oh, .Belford, Belford! — could years — could ages efface the painful recollection of that hour! — I beheld the lovely Cecilia at the closing period of life — her matchless form altered with grief and stcknefs — I kneeled by her in a state of unutterable agony. When She had Somewhat recovered 
the 
( 26y) 
the agitation ray presence had oeca stoned, She raised herself in the bed to Speak. “I will not reproach — I will “not dwell. Sir Edward, [Said She] 
“on the arts you practised to gain “my astections as the first step to a “Seduction. The death of the best “of men and of fathers, left rae a still 
m 
“more easy prey to your destgns : — “We were married you know, after ‘‘ which you left rae; whispers began “to be circulated to ray prejudice in the country. Spite of ray retireraentj “and unable either to: confess our “union or to bear the calumny of the world, I quitted Mrs. Walstngham 
“and went to that cottage in -- Shire. 
I there becarae a mother, and Spent three years, at the end of which pe“ “we met one evening : irame diately after that, I grew so very ill “that I was obliged to come to Lon ' “don for the advice of the phystcians there; on ray journey I happened “to raeet Robert, who was your va let at Woburn Hall; he was dying “at an inn where I happened to stopv 
M “and( 
( 268) 
i 
“and his approach to eternity I con“ “made him desirous of his con“ “being clear: he informed “me that your design was, that he “Should personate a parson, and have “a feigned license; but his regard “for me being greater, he brought a ‘‘ real clergyman and proper license, “who legally united us. I cannot *" express my Surprise and horror at “finding Tvhat your intentions had “been; but the anguish yet was “Spared me of your Succeeding. I knew not where to write to you, “and was convinced that in the sup position of your designs being ef “fected you meant to abandon rae, “for ever. Grief at your treatment “will Shortly deprive me of existence; “but in my last hour, the last wish of “ray life have I accomplished j — it “was to See you and implore a fa“ “protection for the little ed ward. I doubt not [said She, with “a benign smile] but repentance will “expiate your errors — May that glo y rious hope ever be before your eyes! 
— May( 
() 
— May your treatment of our child' ‘‘ Show your tender remembrance of “a woman who still in her last mo“ 
“loves you! — and may he “Sometimes, Sir Edward, bring back “to your recollection the image of 
Cecilia!” -- -- - 
these were the last words my Cecilia ever Spoke. In stlence stie embraced her child repeatedly, and in about an hour after breathed her last in my arms. — Oh! Harry, — may her fate and mine be a warning to others; — may it make the one Sex more cau -- tious of Seduction and the other of trusting! 
Was it posstble for any human being to feel more despair and remorse than I did while I gazed wildly on the breathless corpse of my Cecilia. — 
I was pleased however that we had been really married. Since even in her last moments it afforded her stitisfac tion. 
But I v.dll not, my dear Belford, dwell on this Scene to affect you. — - — • The remains of my beloved were con 
M 2 veyed 
.0 
( 270), 
veyed to the church at Woburn, and the most elegant monument erected to her memory. I had inquiries made for Robert, who had not died as he feared : I made him prove the marriage, and the child will be heir to my title and fortune. 
This day I propose Setting out for the country, where in remorse and gdef I Shall pass the remainder of my, life at Woburn Hall, — ray only care the education of my child. The affections his mother possested Shall now be transferred to him; and may he not, like his father, be the destroyer of his own happiness! 
sensible that in the retirement I have laid out for the future, I Shall have nothing to relate, I here close my 
correspondence. — -- -- With a thousand 
wishes that your fate may be very disferent from that of 
E. Haviland. 
r 
u 
N 
( 271) 
LETTER LI 
(LADY EUSTACE TO LADY ELIZA 
MOUNTFORD. ^ 
Londoo, 
Al L Eliza, that our imagination 
could have formed of grief, is realised. Falkland expired, soon after the conclusion of my last, and Caroline, in consequence of her attendance on him, 
has taken the fever oh! Save us 
Heaven from this last trial may She 
yet be Spared ^it has raged with 
violence for Some days j She is now in a gentle stumber, — the Jleep of death I fear. 
I thought from a knowledge of his unworthiness I would not have been at all affected at horatio’s dissolution, but found myself mistaken. — — Oh Death, how awful are thy approaches! 
In 
•V. 
♦. 
\ 
S 
( 272) 
« 
In Continuation. 
Oh, my friend, — to what a Scene have I been witness! — the recollection of it will be ever present to my 
thoughts -- -- Beljford^ IX eom?e; — he had 
heard of falk.land’s death and came to See his beloved, intending at a pro per time to make his proposals. — He was frantic when he heard the situa tion She was in; — he kneeled to rae to conduct him to her apartment — I could only weep in Silence, and Belford 
flew to it himself -- -- Harry gazed at 
her with speechless agony, — but his addresses came too late to afford her 
pleasure- -- -- Saw him — heard him 
not -- -- the icy hand of death was 
ctretched for the loveliest of w’omen. Oh, Eliza — Eliza! — wdiat a change vas this! — Belford Still led on to ex 
f 
pect felicity, and in the end to meet with a fate like this— — eyes were no longer fixed on him with delight ' — her heart no longer fluttered at his approach — — I am unable to write. — ■ 
Caroline 
/ 
( 273) 
Caroline is no more! — does Emily 
live to write it 1 am Siupified with 
grief; and the once gay, once charming Harry Belford is frantic — his is 
indeed the frenzy of love he stands 
immoveable by her cold remains — still calls on her name in Soft impastioned 
accents -- -- What a Scene is this! — • 
your Emily at the other, is weeping, deluges of tears to her remembrance — * to the remembrance of her untimely fate, — Snatched when on the eve of happiness, and in the bloom of life. — belford’s expectations were raised to the highest degree ^ — his Soul was wrapped in her ^ and the future years of his life will only be passed in regretting the former, and counting with a degree of still more refined affection, the hours until he Shall meet his Caroline, and in another world enjoy that happiness— — it was the will of Heaven to deny them in this. 
I 
FINIS. 
