CONSTANTIA
AND HER
Daughter JULIA,
A N
ITALIAN HISTORY;
WITH
A DISCOURSE
O N
ROMANCES.
f
v^ir~l
DUBLIN:
Printed by D. Chamberlaine, J. Potts, J. Hoey, jun. J. Williams, and C Ingham. m, dcc?lxix.
advertisement.
H E enemies of fiction will no X doubt read the following history with great Satisfaction, when they are alliired that the story is grounded on a real fact; and that Constantia was daughter to the marquis of spi nola, of a very illustrious family in Italy. It is not very long since these adventures happened; and there were a few years ago, persons alive in France who knevr that unfortunate lady.
A 2
( V)
/
t _
'
I
A
/
DISCOURSE
0
O N
$
ROMANCES.
.'-«•- » - •
■ * ' • %
There are certain people that
Seem almost a different Species from the rest of mankind, who cannot pardon tears or a tender emotion in themselves, which the reading or representation of a fiction has drawn from them. They must certainly be of a very peevish difposition to rea
3 proach
VI A DISCOURSE
proach themselves with their very
• -. • V.... ...
these Scrupulous philosophers, if they deserve the name, think it below them to yield to anything but geometrical truths and demonstrations. We should not, ac
fording to thctr syst^ns, weep
representation of King Lear, or the Fair Penitent; because for Sooth a
t
Lear or a Calista never existed.
If we are to reject fiction, what must become of pbetfy.? Our language would lose its beauties, and fancy that vivacity, that fire, which embellishes the work, and gives it that colouring, without which the picture would be stripped of its ornaments, and present nothing but cold and in animated features. The design how perfect Soever does not attract our eyes, nor communicate that enchanting pleasure, the finished piece never
fails
ON ROMANCES, VII
fails to excite. But to return to our first object.
these very people would be great ly Surprised, should it be proved to them, beyond the power of contra diction, that the boasted histories they have continually in their hands, and So much admire, are for the most part but rough compilations of dates and Supposed events, which have all the fiction of a romance without being So interesting, or Supported with equal grace, style, or probability: the existence of Their Semrramis, Romulus, and Cyrus is as difficult to prove as that of those heroes who are styled children of the imagination.
As for my part, it was always my opinion that topreserve and multiply fiction which may be of any advantage to us, by interesting the heart, or amusing the mind, far from rea
4 strict
\
A DISCOURSE
stricting or destroying them, is acting most agreeably to reason. True philosophy is the art of knowing how to be happy. A child may be justly angry at his master, who, often lest reasonable than himself, tears his toys from him, and loads him with wearisome tashs. The Athenian madman, who believed all the ships that entered the Piraeum, really belonged to him, cannot be blamed for refusing to pay the physicians, who destroyed his happiness by restoring his reason.
The vain clamours of a gloomy faction will not prevail over the general sense of mankind. Romances have gained too great a credit in Society to fear the attacks of a few obscure pedants. Certainly Marivaux, Richardson, and Rousseau are preferable to a herd of commentators,
disser
ON ROMANCES. IX
differtators, insipid geometricians, and anonymous authors of memoirs composed without choice or order, written without taste, and osten fraught with the most atrocious calumnies.
We shall not Speak here of the pleasures that arise from a well invented fiction; let us only attend to the advantage these rigid readers themselves may reap from thence. A good romance is as capable to correct the mind as many a Sermon, or the most metaphysical moral treatise; for we can never reclaim men from their errors but by a just representation of .them.
Marivaux knew too well that to instruct, it was necessary in a certain manner to deceive; if he had perhaps followed his inclination, he would have imitated Mallebranche in his corapofitions • and would have
A 5 been
X A DISCOURSE
been as little read and understood.,.
There is a great rcremblance betwixt men’s minds and their constitu tions; some kinds of food are too strong for their digestion, it is often Ib with their mind : anything Solid and learned is above their Capacity, and occasions weariness and disgysh We must therefore humour their weakness, treat them as under a regimen for their health, and under the charms of arniisement instil virtuous truths; into their souls.
Besides these how many other strong reasons are there to be urged in favour of romance? Should 1 grant oar critics, that t al! iiistories are true, what do they present to our view A like picture, the same Spirit, the Same arrangement, the Same concatenation
of events reign in all: a contemptible
ON ROMANCES. XI
ble origin, wrapped up in the marvellous, and Supported by Some ridiculous prodigies, Some hero held as a God, laws, battles, revolutions, usurpations, conquests over their weak neighbours, glory, luxury, changes, incessant revolutions, first a decay, then a total annihilation of empire, is the whole of the Assyrian, Egyptian, Roman, and all other histories.
What benefit do we reap from reading Such books? They burden the memory, and overwhelm the mind with chronology, epochas^ facts, a few particular customs, and that is ail: not the least reflection for improving our reason. The virtues of kings, the crimes of tyrants, the rapid conquests of heroes, their dazzling achievements, are all So general, so Supernatural, So foreign to our being, that far from approach
XII A DISCOURSE
preaching Such objects, we rather depart from them as far as we are able; or if we go in quest of them, it is only to behold them in a miraculous light. They Seem new beings to us, coloisus’s raised on the tops of mountains: they strike the eyes, and feed our stupid curiosity; but we are far from drawing a parallel between them and us, who look upon ourselves as pigmies compared to them, and as a race of men of a different nature. Thus we never enter into that Spirit of combination, which supposes a resemblance betwixt their actions and ours, and equalling us with them, makes us of con Sequence only look upon them as models Sorus.
The nature of a romance is very different; it represents man as he really is, his virtues, his vices; it is
a
ON ROMANCES, XIII
a natural picture of Society within the reach of every one’s understanding; every reader may taste the pleasure of discovering his own likeness in it, and thereby amuse and instruct himself at the Same time
much better than in dreaming over all the historical books in the universe.
We cannot take too much pains to become acquainted with our own depth, nor apply too closely to know what truly belongs to our nature. In a word, above all things we must avoid going out of our own Sphere,
if we desire to follow the dictates of reason. History is more likely to
Spoil one’s mind, and to give it a
romantic turn than romance itself:
for what do we mean by romantic.?
Something marvellous without being
probable, strained attitudes, gigantic
figures,
XIV A DISCOURSE
figures, which is just what history presents to readers of an ordinary capacity; but we ought to make use of a faithful mirror, and not trust to a glass that magnifies our appearance
to an enormous size.
To all these advantages which romance has over history, let me yet add one which alone is Sufficient to cast the balance on the Side of the former. One essential rule of romance is to Show vice punished always in Some degree on this Side of eternity: but what do we find in history? wickedness almost always triumphant, and innocence oppressed; usurpers happy, and lawful princes dethroned; justice Sold for interest; friendship, love, and even nature itself Sacrificed to ambition: in a word, the weaker always made a prey to the stronger, is it thence we should collect the Seeds of morality? Do
we
ON ROM AN CHS. XV
'we there find examples to be followed ^
Finally, romance is the book of humanity; it instils tenderness and scnsibility into the Soul, the true principles of virtue; it Softens the haughtiness of pride, inspires compassion, brings us back to nature, and keeps it alive in our heart. Our Sentiments, like our bodies, are Subject to change and decay, and may be totally extinguished, if they are not attended to; and nothing can strengthen or Support them equal to romance.
Is not a romance a kind of dramatic piece, consisting of narration, plot, and catastrophe .i Should not then the characters be striking, varied, and properly Supported throughout; So that our concern should gradually rise from Situation
XVI A DISCOURSE, c.
tion to Situation as from Scene to Scene.
Enough has been Said to prove the advantages and Superiority of romance over history. The best defence no doubt would be to write one that would unite all the qualities we have here proposed. Daily experience shows us people learned enough to reason on the means of making a perfect work, but few have Succeeded in the execution.
I
4
I
t
CON[
[ ]
CONSTANTIA,
4
\
AND HER
DAUGHTER JULIA,
An ITALIAN HISTORY.
/ •*,
CONSTANTIA was born of
one of the most: illustrious families of Italy; Rome has Seen among her ancestors, cardinals, zealous defenders of religion, and generals worthy of the first ages of the republic.
The marquis of Sp — a, the last of his name, had two Sons and a daughter.
i
ter. The one by his birth and activity had raised himself to the dignity of a cardinal, and looked upon the papal throne as the only step yet remaining to mount the Summit of earthly grandeur, to which, by his ambition and policy, he was paving his way. The other occupied a very honourable post in the army; and, less ambitious than his brother, contented himself with the station he was in.
Constantia was no less indebted to nature than her brothers: her perfect beauty, accompanied with every mental accomplishment, rendered her the most charming and valuable person of her Sex: tho’ mistress of every art to pi ease, she was yet an entire stranger to the power of love. Happy ignorance! but the time was at hand, that the deity was to make his appearance, and exact of Constantia
that
/
 9
that tribute, which Sooner or later every heart is obliged to pay.
The marquis of Sp -- -- a had among
his gentlemen one called jaco mo, a young Frenchman, whose true name was Sr. Val, whom an affair of honour had obliged to leave his native
country.
Grates or bars could not hinder love from entering into places that are otherwise impervious to the view. St. val’s fame reached Constantia, and his character was drawn in the most advantageous light imaginable; it was her chamber maid that fi.* st in fused the Seducing poison into her breast. St. Val had Seen Constantia at a public entertainment; her beauty struck him; he Sound means to gain this maid over to his interest, who, on her part, omitted nothing to make him amiable in constantia’s eyes. She
watched the moments her mistress’s
• >
heart
2  
heart seemed most unguarded, and found continually Some pretence to entertain her on love. But what occasion is there to Seek pretencesdoes not nature furnish enough? Constantia heard at first the enchanting language with pleasure, and then began to Speak it herself: happy for her,, had she remained in that Simple knowledge which teaches us to distinguish love from friendship.
rosa,, which was the; name of this intriguing, girl, thought fit to inform St. Val of the situation to which she had brought her mistress; he profited by the advice, and writ Constantia a letter, wherein he painted himself the most tender, faithful, and, res pectful lover.
respect stands Security for love at his first appearance; the fair Sex is less alarmed when a lover makes use of this veil to cover the violence and
bold
 1
boldness of his sentiments: but is the urchin once received, he Soon shows himself in his true colours. Respect grows troublesome; and tho’ reason takes his part, the heart Suggests a thousand motives to remove him; one hesitates a while to pass Sentence, at length he is dismifled; love remains alone, he dares to wish, makes the attempt, is crowned with success.
rosa was charged to deliver the letter to the young marchioness; the
success was doubtful: if Constantia had some unguarded moments, how many others had she, in which her virtue took the alarm, and destroyed all rosa’s hopes; honour in the light it appears to a lady, is not easy to be laid aside; but if once put to flight, never returns again.
St. Val waited with impatience news of his enterprise, but received
none.
2
none. rosa at last: Seized the lucky moment, when her mistress and Ihe had been conversing about the young Frenchman; the expert confidant reads in constantia’s eyes the tender motions that pasted in her heart. Surprises her weakness, and presents St. val’s letter. Constantia storms at first, then Softens, hesitates if Ihe shall receive it or not, receives it at last, opens it with curiosity, and reads it with pleasure.
We find our way to a woman’s heart only by degrees; we must climb at the first step, we walk at the second, we run at the third, and the fourth raises us to the Summit of our wishes.
The young marchioness showed no less reluctance to answer her lover. So that Rosa was obliged to renew the attack. Constantia after a great struggle took the pen in her hand; but an unlucky Scruple arose, and was ready
to
 3
to destroy all rosa’s labour. At length love got the better; St. Val received an answer as favourable as he could have expected. Constantia indeed did not discover her real Sentiments in it, yet instead of the term, esteem, it was easy to read that of love,
A lover Sees with other eyes than an ordinary reader; the heart on these occasions is more expert than the understanding.
St. Val having now got over this, had to confider what step was next to be taken; to have written was not enough: he consults rosa in what manner to bring about an interview
with his mistress. They agree he
#
should go to the church Constantia used to frequent.
Constantia shut her eyes against everything that opposed her passion; she was afraid she could not be tender enough; whatever looked like love,
had
2
had infinite charms for her, the least reflection of virtue made her uneasy; she appealed from reason to the heart; this judge never failed to give the cause in her favour. rosa cherished the voluntary distraction from her duty; did Constantia call for a book, the fly girl was always Sure to present the page, where tales of love were told; did theyconverse on indifferent Subjects, she artfully blended the discourse with love; in a word, Constantia could nowhere turn her eyes, but the image of love was continually presented to her view.
The day came at last St. Val had wished for with So much eagerness, the only day on which an Italian lady can deceive a hushand’s or parent’s watchful eye. Our amorous Frenchman did not fail to hasten to the place appointed: he saw the young marchioness, he adored her,
and
 5
\
and from that instant vowed her eternal faith. Her veil hindered her charms from appearing in their full lustre; yet not So but some shone through, which like the faint beams of the Sun through a cloud, indicated the bright radiance that blazed beo

hind.
Constantia was no less taken with her lover; St. Val made a very lively impression upon her heart, one cannot describe the disorder of two lovers: Sometimes Constantia inv/ardlv repined at the manners of her country, and wished her lover could read what she felt for him, in her eyes; at others she thought herself much indebted to her veil, as it concealed from the observation of others what she only wished to discover to St. Val: but her Sighs made ample amends, the frequency of which told her lover how deeply he was rooted in her affections.
Voit R
z
Yet what her veil obliged her to hide, that she perceived with infinite Satisfaction in her lover, whose looks continually turned towards her, expressed a Soul all on fire. At length they retired quite enraptured with one another, tho’ they had not been able to declare their passion, which made Such a rapid progress.
This interview gave rhe finishing stroke to constantia’s wavering virtue. She lost all Seeling that she was in the wrong; weakness had grown into a lethargy; she only Saw reason at a distance, and her Sight was So weak, it had been better she had been quite blind.
The more a woman gives hersels up to dispute,, the less Sure she is of victory; she accustoms herself to be overcome; her defeat does not affrighten her, her passion becomes
ha
 7
habitual. The contrary happens to a heart that yields without allowing itself time to be Seduced; it rises again with the Same precipitation; it may Slumber in pleasure, but will
never fall quite asleep: a coquet triumphs in her very defeat, but a prude has reason to fear even in hei; victory.
It was impossible for Constantia not to go farther than a Simple interview,
her duty Spoke as yet, but it voice was So weak she could with difficulty hear it: that of love was
stronger and more persuasive. Alas, how shall we defend the fortress, when the heart joins with nature to attack it!
St. Val has recourse to rosa, who had hitherto So faithfully Seconded all his views. Constantia perhaps was no less desirous than him of a nearer acquaintance; but decorum,
B 2 that
z
that imperious tyrant of the Sex, obliged her to conceal her inclinations. Strange prejudice! is not nature the Same in every breast? are the laws of humanity only established for us? should a woman’s heart be deprived of all feeling.
rosa knew but two well that of her mistress to expose her to a confession which the violence of her passion might have extorted from her; she would not reduce her to Such a humbling situation.
A woman even in the height of her passion for another, always preserves Something of itself, which is the only prejudice we ought to respect in the Sex. This is that chimaera, which, tho’ often overcome, can never be totally rooted out: we call it honour, virtue, but it is self-love transformed into these shapes; thus it becomes
a necessary ingredient in the composition

 9
Sition of a woman, and it is to this happy transformation we owe onr victory over the fair Sex; we may cast down its power, but must always preserve its title, its outside; the appearance of virtue is the real virtue of a woman. This principle of self-love produces different effects; a lover must know how to apply them all in their turns: an attempt will fail today, which may turn out extremely well tomorrow. A woman in Sacrifi
4 *
cing her virtue would have you leave her in the belief, it has received no stain: she shuts her eyes against the danger, if we only tell her she Sees clearly.
St. Val engaged the maid to introduce him into her mistress’s apartment. The undertaking was bold; but interest having tied the knot, it was difficult to unloose it. rosa thought her mistress would not be
B 3 al
3
altogether displeased *, nor was she deceived. St. Val appears, throws himself atconstantia’s feet, and breaks out in the most lively, most tender expressions; he sheds tears, and vows fidelity which should not terminate hut with his latest breath: his looks, his Sighs, made a part of the declaration, even his very Silence Spoke in favour of our young Frenchman.
How easily do we let ourselves be persuaded when we are in love; for how should we resist?? is almost more than human not to be weak on these occasions. Constantia at first Surprised then provoked at St. vai’s temerity, was going to let him Seel the effects of her just indignation, and turned her eyes towards him. This look Spoils all, love triumphs, tenderness takes place of resentmenr, pleasure puts on a thousand different shapes in constantia’s breast: Sometimes
4
*
 1
limes it is motionless, at others lively to excess, then calm and impetuous by turns.
Constantia wished she had loved St. Val with less ardour; but he was too amiable, she. too sensible not to forgive his fault. Such a Situation is. not. easily described; it is
better felt than expressed.
A thousand times did the young marchioness in this interview give the name of esteem to the most violent passion. St. Val on his part opposed the term of respect to the reproaches his mistress’s Scruples drew upon him: she believed him, and he was overjoyed. Constantia thought him master of a virtue, it would have put him to despair to have really pos seffed.
The next day our lover appeared again before his mistress; new reproaches on constantia’s part opened
B 4 the
%
«
3
the Scene, yet it ended with greater regret on both Sides than the time before.
The young marchioness was in the state of a person, who is beginning to contract a familiarity with her passion; she thought she Saw nothing extraordinary in Jove; that it was most natural: then can there be anything more charming than two hearts united together by the bonds of an ardent’ affection, dilintangled from the gross fetters of sense? Nature has made us for one another; it is her has given birth to that Sympathy, the effects pf which we feel, without, discerning the cause. Love is the most glorious mark of humanity; the greatest men are not ashamed of their weakness on these occasions; why should reason forbid what nature commands.? This was precisely what Constantia Said to herself; these ideas
har
%
33
hardened her against: vulgar prejudices, love only Spoke, love only was heard.
St. Val for Several days following acted the Same part, which being thus continued became more and more interesting. Constantia at length confessed ingenuoussy she loved him; esteem Served no longer as a cloak to love; Sr. Val also bid respect farewell. sense began to gain an absolute dominion over the Soul: Constantia showed daily more and more complailance for herself; new
ideas less Spiritual than the former
arose in her mind, representing that
love was no crime, but a weakness
easily to be pardoned; that a lover
might be allowed certain liberties,
when a lady resolves. to preserve
her virtue by guarding against ex treams,
St.
2
St. Val laid hold of this happy disposition; he would allow her virtue full time to fall into the lethargy to which it was tending So fash He therefore took a Second step, which Succeeded as well as the first: he stopped short in the midst of his career, the fear of otberwise milling his aim preventing him from going on at the rate he wished; too great forward ness would have alarmed the young marchioness, prudence must always accompany love; he thought it enough to have given her Some kisses full of respect, which she. Seemingly wrapped up in thought, feigned not to advert to. Thus St. Val sound Constantia grew more and more easy in pardoning the Sreedoms he took: her passion increased, the phantom of honour disappeared, her eyes were overclouded, her voice dyed away on her lips, sense took place of
rc
 5
9
reflection, pleasure thrilled thro’ every vein, her reason was wandering, and her heart acknowledged no other guide but love. St. Val, who reflected even in his most: enraptured moments, retired without making any farther attempt, persuaded Such a retreat was
as good as a victory, which, for its
being delayed, would be no less glorious.
Some women must be as it were taken by storm, others do not^fur
render till after a number of little
*
conflicts, others recover their strength the very moment we think we have made their weakness ply to our wishes. Caprice is the Soul of all their actions, the rule of all their virtues, pleasures, passions; Sometimes a moment well employed will do more in our Savour than months, nay years, tendance.
At
4
3
At length the happy day reserved for St. val’s victory arrived; he used a stratagem which never fails: he affected a coldness towards the lady, discoursed of her charms with tranquillity, and told her without transport that he loved her. Constantia was alarmed, she feared some change on the part of St. Val, and even dropped Some reproaches.
self-love proved stronger at that instant than even love itself, and it was to that St. Val owed his happiness; oar expert lover, perceiving the good effect his dissimulation had produced, throws himself at his mistress’s feet, devours her hands with kisses; the marchioness made no resistance, St. Val pnrsues his advantage, he flies, he triumphs. Constantia sheds a flood of tears, calls him a hundred times perfidious, and a traitor; St. Val answered nothing, but throwing his
arras
 7
arms about her, Soothed her into Silence with a thousand kisses.
The young marchioness did not yet know, that Sorrow follows close at the heels of these Sorbidden pleasures :. all her prospects were Sull of happiness. Occupied with the present, she did not see into Suturity; all her ideas, all her Sentiments, were drowned in a Sea of pleasure.
Repentance at last found its way to her heart, conducted thither by love itself; she had too dear bought a few momentary joys. She had hitherto relied on fortune; the distance of the danger made it appear less; but when the fourth month came to be run out, the unfortunate marchioness Saw lote without a veil; then he appeared as cruel and perfidious to her as he before had Seemed tender and charming. With these melancholy reflections the ideas of honour, virtue,
and
3  /
and duty returned : but (he had not attended to them, had not love been ready to vanish from her eyes; she wanted to recall virtue,, but it was at too great a distance to hear her.
rosa got all the ill usage, love, the cause of all, deserved. Constantia jaid the Sault entirely upon her, which is generally the reward these confidants meet with.
It is Some comfort to a woman to make another person’s heart responsi ble for the errors of her own : she thinks herself less criminal, when another shares part of her guilt. This is the effect of fclf love, the common foible of the fair Sex, or rather of humankind.
Constantia was a young lady that had fallen rather through weakness than a bad inclination: she had listened too much to her own heart, but had yet virtue enough left to Seel and regret
/
 9
great her loss; and tho’ the Sight of St. Val hushed all this rising remorse which Solitude fortified, yet she Sound her melancholy growing daily upon her, and the Same food that nourished her love, strengthened her for
4
row. There was no time to lose; it
< ^ •
was necessary to reflect Serioussy on N
f •
what they had to do; but how should ' they be able to deceive So many persons, as had their eyes constantly on
«
the young marchioness? yet what cannot we Surmount when inspired by
love?
St. Val took advantage of the marquis’s absence, who had retired for Some days to his house atfrescati: he invites the Servants that were left behind with Constantia to a Supper, which they accepted; towards the end of their repast he mixed their wine with a liquor, which put them Soon into the condition the lovers wanted, who Seizing the opportunity, '
left
4
left the house under covert of the night, and, together with rosa, Set out for marseilles.
Constantia was blinded with love, which draws a number of consequences after it no other passion does. It is very Seldom that a woman prescribes bounds to it; she hopes always to taste new pleasures. The heart goes Sometimes more astray than the imagination; dessre leads it farther than pleasure can go, as this may be exhausted, but that grows stronger, and is daily renewed.
The journey proved very fatigue ing to Constantia, and the losing her maid made it yet more So, who, out of Sear lest she should fall into the old marquis’s hands, had abandoned her mistress.
Constantia pasted for St. val’s V ife, and was now only waiting the time to make these bonds lawsul which love had formed. They had already
entered
 1
♦
entered the borders of France, and were got as far as marseilles; but, alas! little did they know the misfortunes that were yet attending them.
The young marchioness Sell dangerously Sick, occasioned by the fatigue of the journey; to stay in an inn would have been expossng themselves to the danger of being known, as they did not doubt but the marquis would everywhere cause diligent inquiry to be made, in order to find out the place of their retreat. Their finances also were on the decline, and everything about them began to look gloomy: it was therefore necessary to think what to betake themselves to in Such desperate circumstances, St. Val, after much consideration, broke the affair to Constantia; he proposed to her, with a reluctance equal to his Sorrow, to go into one of those houses that are destined for the reception of
sick
42 The HIS TO R Y of
Sick strangers in an indigent condition, which tho’ he knew would be most afflicting, to Constantia, was the Safest and only choice they had yet remaining.
Constantia shuddered with horror at the dreadful alternative the very name of Such a habitation caused a disgust she could not overcome,
A confused storm of the most excruciating reflections, one more horrid than another, overpowered her: she called to mind her birth, the loss of her fortune, the injury done the whole family, her father’s anger, and the indignation of all her friends; but no Sooner did she cast her eyes again on St. Val, than all these terrible appearances vanished, he Seemed more lovely than ever, and provided she preserved his affection, she was quite indifferent to whatever might befall herself. She hastened to her dismal abode, conducted
thither
a
 3
thidier by her lover, but did not let herself be known; the name of St. val’s wife having dispelled. all the Scruples any other title might have raised.
Love was now transformed in constantia’s bosom to a kind of virtue, as even self-love was Sacrificed to it, which Sacrifice whenever a. woman makes, it renders her a thousand times more virtuous than those who are So by reason or rather through habit.
In this condition St. Val visited Constantia as often as the rules of the hospital would permit him to enter. Her pregnancy was not the only cause of her fickness: she had for Some days been Seized with a violent fever, which increased'to Such a degree, that it was thought necessary to tell her the danger she was in: at last she was given over hythe physicians.
Coni

4
Constantia? received this news with a resolution Superior to her Sex. All is over with me, Says she to Sr. Val; heaven has punished me for my fault, if our love can be called So; it is but just I alone should Suffer, as I alone was guilty: all your misfortunes will end with my life; farewell! it is the last time you will See your unhappy Constantia, the last time I can tell you, I love you. I hoped to have left you a pledge of my tenderness, this picture of our love would have been continually before your eyes, it would have remembered you of its unhappy mother, but as an addition to my misery, heaven deprives me of this means of easing your grief. The idea alone of being Separated from you falls a thousand times harder on me than death; think Sometimes on one that loved you So tenderly, and nov ready to die, regrets life only on your
account. —
 5
account. — No death shall ever tear you from me, cries St. Val, interrupting her; shall I lose you.? no, live, Constantia, live for the most faithful of lovers, for our mutual happiness, for the poor infant you carry within you. The tears that run gushing down his cheeks, choked his voice; he looked at Constantia without being able to utter a word, his Sorrow became Silent, but how many things did their hearts Say to one another! how eloquent was their silence I — Cease, replied Constantia, to make me apprehensive of death, take yourself away, leave me, forget me. What, I forget you! replies St. Val; is it you that is Speaking to me? Constantia loves me, and commands me to forget her! Here, Says the unhappy Constantia, the only thing Sortune has left me, take this bracelet; it is all I can give you, receive
4
ceive it as a pledge of my love and fidelity. You live, and I die Satisfied, because you love me.; I Seel even in these last moments I love you more than ever. Farewell! sold me in your arms my dearest St. Val, that
I may expire in them -- -- that my
soul — -- --
Constantia could not finish thefo words, a deadly paleness Spread over her countenance, she became speech less, her eyes alone remained the interpreters of her love, they .were fixed on St. Val, she pressed his hand tenderly, while he watered her’s with his tears; at last her eyes also closed.
What a dismal Situation! our Sentiments on these occasions labour for expression; our grief can find no vent, we only feel all the weight thereof, when it begins to fubside. The marchioness appeared really dead to Sr. Val, and he himself was little less:
he
 7
he remained motionless, the surprise and violence of the stroke deprived him of all power of complaint, the agony he felt rendered him quite in fensible; the people of the hospital came in, and, no less deceived than St. Val withconstanlia’s appearance, hurried him away from the fatal Spot, the condition he was in hindering him from attending to what they were doing, or to refuse their assistance.
Yet this was not the end of constantia’s misfortunes; she had only fallen into a Swoon, from which she recovered in Some hours. She no Sooner opened her eyes, but she looked round for St. Val, but in vain; his name was the first thing she could pronounce, but this unhappy lover was deaf to her complaints. How great was constantia’s despair when
she missed him from her Side; she alks what is become of him, and
is
4
is told that he had just left marseilles, and they did not know the' route he had taken. Death itself had not been So terrifying to Constantia; her lovers departure was like a thunderbolt to her: surprise, Sorrow, rage, Seized her all at once. Cruel St. Val, cries she, you are gone, and have left me! you abandoned me at the approach of death, and Said you loved me, can I believe you.? No, I shall never See
you more, I'shall never see an ungrateful wretch, for whom I Sacrificed my Sortune, honour, life! no, St. Val,
I shall never See you more!
This idea alone threw Constantia into a new fainting fit; Sometimes she heaved a profound Sigh, at others she list up her eyes to heaven, bathed in tears; she loaded St. Val with re
7
proaches, as if he had been present; Sometimes she would pafs rapidly
from the height of nassion to that of
ten
 9
tenderness, and justify him as eagerly as stie condemned him: little did she know that nothing but the height of despair and the detestation of a place in which he had lost all that was dear to him, had hastened his departure; and that neither time nor place could ever tear her memory
from a heart she had been So wholly mistress of.
To what changes is love Subject!
how many different shapes does it
assume! can there be any affliction
in the universe equal to that of losing all we love the very moment we
looked for possession! could one believe that the Source of pleasure should overflow with So much bitterness!
Fortune was no less unkind to Constantia than love; Fate had decreed her ruin, and only granted her life to make her suffer far greater evils than death. She fell into a vol. I. C Ian
5
languishing condition, much more uneasy than a declared sickness, and, without regard to her Situation, was inhumanly turned out of the hospital, though she was now far advanced in her pregnancy.
The marchioness left marseilles with impatience to be gone from a place she had Suffered So much in •, but did not know whither to goi Overpowered with the memory of St. Val, reduced to the greatest straits, without any visible resource, obliged to conceal her birth, exposed every moment to the danger of Sailing into her father’s hands, carrying about her the marks of her shame, and the fruit of her unhappy passion; what could she expect but certain death? If she had at any time a moment’s respite from her grief, it was only to fall deeper back into it than before.
One
 1
One day, as the heat was excessive, (he Tat herself down on the fide of a road that led into a little wood, and there gave herself entirely up to the most torturing reflections: full of her sufferings, and almost distracted with the prospect of her misery, she often pronounced St. val’s name.
A lady that had a little country bouse in the neighbourhood, happening to walk that way, and observing constantia’s noble appearance, her melancholy, and tears, felt herself much astecled at Such a sight; and full of compassion towards the unfortunate object, goes up to her, and jlks the cause of her Sorrow. Constantia ansv/ered, that her husband had abandoned her, that she was quite a Granger in the country, and that her Father was a tradesman. Blanche, for So the lady was called, did not inquire Sarther; her curiosity was Satis
C 2 fied
52 The HISTORY OP
fied with this ssmple narrative; She bid Constantia follow her, and took upon her house as an asylum. The unfortunate Constantia accepted the offer and shortly after was delivered of a daughter, who proved not less amiable, nor less unfortunate, than her mother.
Constantia rendered herself useful to her benefactress by a thousand little Services, as she had it not in her power to give her more Solid prooss of her gratitude; and thus a life of fb much retirement rendered ineffectual all the Search her father made for her. Then it was her fault and misfortune began to Sit heavy upon her: her love was grown more Settled, and her heart ceased to be tos sed with thole Sudden gusts that deprive us of reason, and hurry us on to the. most cruel extremities; but this calm was accompanied with a
most
 3
most piercing anxiety and chagrin.
Julia, which was her daughter’s name, was her only comfort in all her distress; the lovely girl disclosed every day new charms; but wherever she cast her eyes, nothing but melancholy images presented themselves to her view, of which, young as she was, she Seemed already sensible: gloomy presages for a heart that could be moved at so tender an age.
Constantia employed all the (pare time she had to the best advantage; she wrought at her needle, and earned as much as would have Sufficed to maintain herself and daughter. Thus fallen from the high degree in which her birth and fortune had placed her, she was obliged to Spend her days in obscurity, and to have recourse to her own hands to relieve her from being burthensome to her friend.
C 3 Julia
i
5
Julia had already reached her seventh year, but knew nothing of her birth, her mother waiting a more favourable opportunity to discover the Source of her misfortunes to her. Blanche had also a Son a little older than Julia. This young couple, brought up together, conceived a liking to one another; they began to Seel the power of nature in their tender breasts; all their inclinations were the same, their greatest pleasure was in being together.
Neither Octavio, So blanche’s Son was called, nor Julia, could have given a name to what they felt; but this ignorance was only a contracted knowledge reason and maturity must unsold: two young persons take a fancy to one another, and though they cannot See the principle that urges them on, they no less willingly yield to the gentle attraction: nature
con
 5
conceals from their eyes the hand that puts these Springs in motion; they only behold their present happiness, without extending their view to those fruitful images reflection shows in the perspective of futii
rity.,
Constantia attributed this mutual inclination to the weakness of youth, and looked upon a passion that was daily gathering strength, in no other light than that of childish amuse ment. If Julia found herself a moment absent from Octavio, she grew melancholy, and whenever he appeared ‘again, the cloud vanished. Julia was now almost thirteen; her mother at length began to open her eyes with regard to a pas sson she had hitherto unknowingly cherished. She did not allow Julia to be So osten in octavio’s company, and his mother laid him under the
C 4 like
5
like restraint; So that they could scarce have any opportunity of conversing together; but, instructed by love, they looked a thousand tender things no words could express. How often did they inwardly repine at their parents orders! How often did they Search in themselves for the reason of a prohibition So contrary to their happiness! They did not yet know how dangerous it is blindly to follow nature.
At last Julia thought of an expedient to remedy the distress they laboured under; she resolved to Write to her lover. Scarce indeed had she learned to form a letter; but love is an able master, and needs but little time for instruction, as the heart listens to his lessons with pleastire: he guided the pen of his young scholar, and dictated as follows:
“I don’t
 7
“I don’t know, my dear Octavio, why we are forbid to See one another; but my friendship for you is So great that I cannot easily express the uneasiness I feel at being Separated from you. I cannot imagine I have done anything amiss in loving you: you had So often told me you loved me, that you shipired me to make you Some return. Since I have been deprived of the pleasure of Speaking to you, I think L am no more the Same creature; everything, is grown unsupportable to me, and am even a burden to myself; what have I done to make my mother use me So > ill? -- You are for ever before my eyes; I remember everything you said to me when we were together;
I own I endeavoured to appear agreeable to you; when you assured me I was amiable, I believed you; that word alone from you gave me inc
5 finite
5
finite pleasure. Since this rigid prohibition I have neglected looking into a mirror. Your mother tells me I am hand Some, but that compliment from her does not affect mse; my heart feels no impression of joy, yet I think she makes use of the Same words you do; but what pleases me from you, becomes indifferent to me from her. I am at a loss what to think of myself; I feel a thousand things I want words to express. Love me as much as I do you. This word is the only expression I can find fit to convey my meaning: yes, Octavio, 1 love you; believe my heart repeats it without interruption; read my letter Several times over, and take care to conceal it.
J U L I A.”
Julia laid hold of an opportunity to Hip this billet into octavio’s hand,
who
% * ‘ f. A
4
 9
who run directly into the wood that was behind the house. How charming did the contents appear to him! how did they affect him! he read the letter twenty times over, and always felt the Same desire to read it again. He that could Scarce for a moment
t
look on a book, had his eyes constantly fixed on this bittle, and continually discovered Some new beauty to attract his attention. How ex
4
preffive did the words “I love you, ” Seem to him! how did he feel the strength thereof! He could not well conceal his joy, and had the greatest difficulty to dissemble, as he would
willingly have communicated his happiness to the whole world.
We do not think ourselves completely happy So long as others are ignorant of our felicity. Perhaps this Sentiment arises from the imperfection of our nature: we love to
draw
6
draw a parallel between our condi tion and that of others: we flatter ourselves we shall be envied for our happiness, and are in raptures not for the good we pofless, but for the thoughts we shall excite in others, which shows we have all a great tincture of vanity in our composition.
When evening came, Octavio returned home; Supper being brought in, he placed himself next to Julia, the sight of whom put him into • confusion: he passed with rapidity from the most profound reflection to the greatest vivacity: he gazed incessantly on Julia, and yet did not See her; the excess of his affection hindered him from giving any outward Sign of the confusion he was in. His senses were in suspense; they Seemed absorbed in a motion iess tranquillity, which arises from
the
CONSTANTSA. 6i
the most violent agitation. After Supper he retired to his room more passionately in love than ever, and writ the following answer to his mistress,
“How unhappy am I also, my
divine Julia, to want words to express
the transports of my heart!
Your letter almost drowned me %
in a Sea of pleasure; nor has the variety of so many charms hindered me from feeling the Source of each in particular. I am as ignorant as you are of the cause of our misfortune. Do you think it is a crime to love one another? does not your mother love mine? can they forbid any other person what they do themselves? our unhappy Sat then must proceed from Some other Source that is hid from us. Yes, charming Julia, I will always love you; my whole heart shall be always yours, for you only
w i 11
6
will I live. Ah! why cannot the raptures of I'ny breast be transmitted to yours? Why is not the heart like the eyes? you would then discover in mine the most Sincere and ardent affection. Your charms alone have caused sensations I cannot comprehend: I love my mother, and yet how different is this love from that 1 feel for you! is there no term more expressive than “I love you!” You have only put it thrice in your letter, but I would multiply, it without end in mine. Remember, divine Julia, that you are all the happiness I wish for; that my fife depends upon yours; and, lastly, that nothing shall ever part us. Be assured that this letter is only a faint resemblance of my Sentiments, that my heart alone Seels Such emotions a thousand others could not contain.
O C T A V I O.”
Octa
^
 3
Octavio gave Julia this letter the next day in the same manner he had received his. We need not enlarge on the Surprises and rapture of his young mistress on reading these lines; let it Suffice to Say, that the pleasure they gave Julia, exceeded that of her lover. Anything of that kind always makes a deeper impression on a female mind, as the less liberty they have of showing their Satisfaction outwardly the more intense it is within.
Our two young lovers kept up a mutual correspondence after this manner; and though their letters were nothing but repetitions of the same Subject, yet love every time inspired them with different expressions, and lent them the graces of novelty. It is certain we never weary repeating anything that relates to our favourite passion; pleasure shows
itself
64 The HISTORY OR
itself to us in a thousand. (listerent shapes.
Blanche anshconftantia grew daily more and more watchful with regard to the young folks; they were but very seldom allowed to See one another;,, and Julia was obliged to keep her mother company at her work, Blanche,., being able to give her Son a gentees education, caused him to be instructed in the more necessary Sciences, without neglecting the polite accomplishments.
The day at last arrived on which love was to Surmount all the obstacles Blanche and Constantia could put in its way: they both went to town on Some very pressing occasion, and were consequently obliged to remit Something of their usual precaution. The lovers did not let slip Such an opportunity to enjoy one another’s company. As
each
#
 5
each hastened with eager steps to the place they believed their lover to be in; they meet halfway; they remained motionless for Some time; Octavio recovered first from his Surprise : is it possible Says he, adorable Julia, that I See you again,, and can tell you freely, I love you! You don’t answer? Alas! replies Julia, my Silence Says enough for me; I don’t know what I feel, joy and fear affect me alternately. I love you, Octavio, and yet it is with trembling I tell you So • if my mother Saw me! Well, what then, resumes the passionate lover, do you thing she would disapprove my tenderness? If you loved, divine Julia, to the excess I do, you would not tremble; fear proceeds from indifference.
Octavio could Scarce finish these words, in which his eyes had a greater
part
t
6
part than his lips, when an air of confusion overspreads his face; tumultuous raptures' fill his breast; he gazes at Julia with the most pas sionate tenderness; a glowing fire creeps through every vein. Julia, on her part, gave herself up to the most lively transports. Octavio pressed her to his breast, and almost devoured her with his kisses. Young as they were and in Such a Situation, the consequences might have been Satal, had not the Sudden return of their 'mothers broke off the interview.
Fear brought Julia back to the use of her senses; she could not look at her lover without blushing; she left him, yet retired with regret to her apartment, lest her mother should find her in her lover’s company.
Here she began to reflect on the Scene between her and Octavio; she was ashamed of herself, and knew
not
1
 7
not what to think of the manner in which his presence affected her: his fondness for her excited very jdistor ent Sensations from what she experi enced when caressed by her mother: she therefore resolved never to allow him an opportunity of raising Such tumults in her breast for the future.
No, cries she, all in confusion, no, Octavio, 1 will never See you again!
I will no longer love you — what, I will no longer love you! is it in my power to hate you } by what magic have you thus changed my heart? Since you discovered your passion to me, I have never had a moment’s rest; everything I See recalls you to my mind; everything I like, remembers me of you; you are the only object of all my wishes. Strange Situation! alas, I should certainly ssy from you! without doubt it is something wrong you have inspired me with;
for
%
6
for true affection should be all tranquillity, and ours is full of trouble and uneasiness. Scrnething in my breast, I would willingly stifle, tells me I have transgreffed my duty. This impression’ I never felt before, but feel now in Spite of me, the Source of what I cannot fathom. Another voice more Soft, more insinuating, and more agreeable to my wishes, tells me these alarms are but the effedst of my timidity; that friendship is a Sentiment common to hur man nature; and that Octavio claims a different tenderness from that I owe my mother. How unhappy am I, even whilst I thought myself the happiest creature of the universe! Ah! Octavio, Octavio, what ills have, you brought upon me, yet how pleasing to me! Shall I never cease to love you? can I forgive your having sh disturbed my peace.?
 5
\
Julia, by endeavouring to lay aside all the ideas relating to Octavio, only imprinted them deeper in her imagination, and under more lively colours. When once we begin to deliberate between love and reason, the last Seldom prevails; we imagine we shall ease our pain by applying remedies that only Serve to irritate it. Do we Sincerely dessre to get the better of an inclination it is yet in our power to overcome, we must break ossf all conversation with our heart; diffidence of our own strength is the best means to preserve our liberty.
t
Constantia coming in, Julia endeavoured to epneeal her confu^on; but this caresul parent easily perceived
the flutter her daughter was in, and wanted to know the cause of it. In vain did Julia oppose an awkward dissimulation to her repeated instances; she used her authority in order to
Search
7
Search a heart, that denied all access. to light. Julia hesitated a long time, at length she thus expressed herself: because you force me to it, I shall unfold to your view the inmost recef ses of my heart; it is high time you should know the pain I Suffer; how happy should I be, could you give me ease! Octavio — here she stopped short. Weil, Says her mother, go on. You do not understand me, resumes Julia, I don’t know why I blush at this name. Octavio is the only author of all my confusion, I have the most tender friendship for him, and this friendship occasions the disorder you observe me in.
1|
Constantia needed no farther e clairciffement; she easily perceived it was love disguised under the name of friendship. I have heard enough, my daughter, says she, to know your condition : know then that heaven disapproves of Such a friendship;
cease
 1
cease to love Octavio. cease to love Octavio! replies Julia, interrupting her, I could Sooner cease to live; my heart, in Spite of me, would disobey you. Then why should heaven condemn Such a friendship.? if it disapproved of it, it would certainly deliver me, as all our thoughts and actions are Subject to its power: there is then guilt in loving you! No, replies Constantia, it is enough I command you; it is not your business to alk questions, but to obey. Well then. Says Julia, you have but one way to make me Submit to your commands, tear me from the presence of a person so fatal to my repose, tear me from myself — that I may no longer See — shall I consess that — O! let me not pass Such a rigorous Sentence
upon raysels -- 1 know it will be
my death, but I shall have the consolation of having obeyed you. A
flood
7
flood of tears that Showered down her cheeks, stopped her from proceeding: her concern, her Sincerity, her submis sion rendered her more amiable and less criminal in a mother’s eyes, who had herself felt the power of love.
Ah! St. Val, dear St. Val, cried Constantia, where are you at present you know not all the ills you are the occasion of. Love Sacrifices two victims on your account; was not one enough, must this one be yet added?
Julia, continued Constantia, forget a passion which would make us both miserable, you are not yet acquainted with all your misfortunes — know then, unhappy girl, know a Secret I find myself obliged to disclose; perhaps your duty will check your love from going farther. Know that your
condition is much beneath octavio’s,
that
 3
that you cannot love him without bringing a stain upon him. This unfortunate mother then informed her briefly of her birth, her love, her flight, her misfortunes, the recital of which overwhelmed Julia with Surprise and melancholy. Constantia, in her narration, omitted thole parts of her history that were less favourable to virtue; She gave St. Val the name of husband, a title which rendered her passion more excusable, as that of lover would have ill Suited the leflbn she was giving her daughter.
So then. Says Julia with a heavy Sigh, I must no longer love Octavio! the Same day that gave me one bles sing, deprives me of another, the loss of which abates the pleasure of the first. Alas! I am undone. I am made a Sacrifice to my birth, a victim to duty! what Octavio! what,
vol. I. D I should
74 The HISTORY OP
I should no longer love you! Alas! certainly Such laws were not decreed by nature; pride alone has established them, as friendship makes all conditions equal.
Constantia wasgreatly affected with her daughter’s condition; she saw her ready to fink into a profound melancholy. Of how many evils is love the Source! what bitters follow upon its Sweets! this passion is the more dangerous the less it Seems
So!
A confused noise, with piercing shrieks, roused Constantia and Julia from their disconsolate posture; they fly hastily to the window; what a shocking sight is offered to their view! Octavio all bloody, his eyes shut, his visage pale as death, Supported by two Servants, Blanche walking by him, filling the air with lamentations; a crowd of neighbours, all in tears,
follow
 5
Sollowing the mournful train. The least part of this moving Scene had been enough to have distressed Julia; she fell back in a dying condition into her mother’s arms: she wanted to Speak, but her Sobs choked the utterance of her words, she would look at Octavio, a shower of
tears dims her eyes, she endeavours to direct her feeble steps towards him, her knees refuse their office, and she finks under the load of her grief.
Octavio, with a dying voice, begged, as the last favour, to be conducted to his dear julia’s apartment; Blanche herself Supported him thither, assisted by Constantia. They laid the wounded youth on his mistress’s bed; Julia Sat by her mother’s fide, quite overwhelmed with grief: Octavio tenderly clasping julia’s hand in his, watered it with his tears. The two mod
2 thers
7
thers could not refrain from weeping at Such a heart melting Spectacle, The only word Octavio could pronounce, was the name of his beloved Julia. Julia alone employed all his thoughts; and the approaches of death were far less frightful to him than being Separated from the mistress he adored. '
His wound, which he received in the Sollowing manner, was dangerous. He himself related the circumstances of his fatal adventure. Having strayed a little too far into the wood he heard cries of distress Seeming to issue from a neighbouring cavern; conducted by the plaintiff Sound, he entered into a Subterraneous grotto, and there found two men ready to murder a third, of a genteel appearance. Octavio, moved with pity, without considering his own weastness, and thinking compassion would stand him in
stead
<
 7
stead of strength, attempted to Succour the distressed gentleman; but heaven did not Seem to savotk his intentions. The assassins laying hold of him, dragged him out of the cavern, after stabbing him with a poig nard, and throwing him down at the entrance of the wood they left him weltering in his blood. The fear of being discovered, no doubt, prompted them to Such a detestable action.
Julia, who had been all this time as it were absorbed in grief, at last lifted up her eyes, and found those of Octavio fixed upon her. The two unhappy lovers were not able to ut
0
ter one Syllable. Julia at last made Co great an effort, that her voice forced a passage through her sighs and tears. Dear Octavio, Said she, is it you I See I my eyes would scarce credit it, did not my heart but too well assure me of the truth. However
D 3 terri
7
terrible your situation is^it is not equal to mine — Alas! if your life
were in danger -- the idea only of
which made Julia shudder with horror. Sometimes she cast her eyes tenderly towards Octavio, at others she lifted them up to Iieaven, as if she meant to reproach it with cruelty; every sigh her lover fetched, was like So many daggers piercing her heart.
Death is much less terrible than Such a Situation; what a racking torment must it be to be ready to lose
all we love! Few readers will be stmck with it, as there are few that feel the force of love.
My dearest Julia, replied Octavio, with a dying tone, you have rendered my misfortune almost dear to me by the concern you have taken in it. In feeing these precious tears shed on my account, I could almost cease to
feel
 9
feel my wound. I knew not the full extent of the happiness I enjoyed, till the instant 1 am about to lose it: perhaps death is going to part us; remember always Octavio loved but you alone; that he lived but for you alone. I should almost meet death with chearfulnels, could it make me So blessed as to live perpetually in your memory..
Here the unhappy lover stopped. The Surgeon that had been called to dress his wound was afraid lest
too much agitation might open it a
%
and begged Constantia to bid Julia retire. She took her daughter, who went without reluctance, into the next apartment; it was enough octavio’s health required it. She chose rather to Sacrifice the pleasure of Seeing him, than to enjoy a happiness that might in the least endanger the recovery of her lover.
D 4 Con
✓
B
Constantia had long observed, that Blanche showed greater attention to Octavio, than mothers usually do towards their children : her Suspicions on that head grew daily stronger. Blanche, in the height of her grief, dropped Some expressions which plainly convinced Constantia Octavio could not be her Son: she felt her curiosity encreased, and could not omit discovering it to Blanche, who saw herself obliged by the tenderness she had conceived for her, to discover a Secret she had hitherto carefully concealed. She Seized the moment Octavio had fallen into a gentle Sleep, to Satisfy constantia’s eagerness, and thus began her history. -
THE
 i
V
/
The History of BLANCHE.
IT is not necessary I Should give you a detail of my misfortunes; I was born with them, yet should never have troubled you with a recital thereof, did not you also Seem to have had your own share of adversity. You have certainly long Since remarked, that my present fortune and condition are but very moderate; I live much below the rank I was born to. My mother lost her life in giving me birth; my father was a Spanish nobleman possessed but of a Small estate, but his probity equaled his noble descent, above Sortune, by his virtue, he despised both her Srowns and favours. I received an education Suitable to my birth; my father looked with reason upon that as the best inheritance he could leave me, not
D 5 with
8
withstanding it is So much neglected at present. I had entered my Sixteenth year, which is generally the time we lose our relish for childish amusements, and Seek others no less vain but more dangerous, when a young gentleman whose name was Fabricio, Saw me at a public entertainment. Some charms nature had lent me, heightened by youth, shade him one of the fondest of lovers: he asked me in marriage of my father. Though inferior in birth to me, he was possessed of a large fortune, with shining qualities; besides these advantages, Some of his relations occupied very distinguished posts, which opened the way to favour. My father consented without difficulty to this match; he only regarded my happiness, and I Sound it in Fabricio.
I had Sorgot to tell you that my lover had a very formidable rival, Don joseph de Padillo, nephew to
the
\
 3
the duke of Medina Cell, who pre' tended he should yield to him. This nobleman of the first: rank, of an engaging figure, and had often Signalised his courage; but these promising qualities were effaced by others of a different nature : she was haughty, ambitious, insolent, and the higher he thought himself above others by his birth, the greater Scope he gave to his vidous inclinations. You may believe I did not hesitate a moment which to chuse. From my infancy I had given myself up to the guidance of reason, nor was I to be blinded by rank; I only Sought the man of honour in the gentleman, birth only Serves to lessen us, when not Supported by virtue: I therefore preferred Fabricio to his rival, and plighted him my faith.
But the day was come that had been reserved for the greatest of mis
for
84 The HISTORY op
fortunes: we were going out of the church in which the marriage ceremony had been performed, when I cspyed a stranger, who rustled im petuously through the crowd, stew furiouqy at my spouse with his Sword drawn, and pierced him in a thousand places before my eyes; I immediately knew it was Don joseph de Padillo. The company that was with us pursued the murderer; my Sather, prompted by revenge, and more eager than the rest, came first up with Padillo; he had already listed up his arm to give the deadly blow, when, alas! madam, he received it himself,
You will easily imagine the excess of Sorrow 1 Selt on this occasion;; day deprived me of father and husband, one of which strokes had been Sufficient to have taken away my life. I was carried from the
fatal
 5
fatal place almost senselefs, and in an expiring condition. iviy father, finding his end approach, desired to See me before his death: he called me to his bedside, where I almost melted away in tears. Do not weep, my daughter. Said my unhappy parent, embracing me, leave timid Souls to vent their grief in lamentation; your husband and father have both been barbaroussy murdered before your eyes: it is your duty to revenge them; away with useless regret, let a noble Spirit of resentment take place there of; padillo’s blood can only expiate
ours. Adieu, my daughter. I would die contented,,
blood that came gushing from his wound, cut short his Speech : he pressed my hand in his, and pointing with his finger to his wound, expired.
I had
8
I had no Sooner recovered a little from my Surprise, but I resolved to execute my sather’s last commands: he Seemed in dying to have transmitted his courage to me. I caused the bodies of my father and husband to be drested in the Same clothes they had on when killed, laid them on a litter, and transported them to the council house of Seville, where, in the presence of the grand corregidor and other officers of justice, I uncovered the corps, and showed them
the wounds. Animated by Such a bloody Spectacle, I insisted upon Speedy and exemplary Satisfaction : I was promised it; but, alas! little did I know that justice could be hoodwinked by gold: Don joseph corrupted his judges, and was acquitted.
What was my Surprise and indignation on hearing the iltue of this affair; I could not have believed that
in
/
87
/
interest could have prevailed in a matter of Such an atrocious nature. Whaf, Said I, in the heat of my transport, shall the most horrid crimes find protectors in those who ought to be the guardians of innocence.? can they thus shamefully betray sheir trust and honour for a petty bribe? Interest alone is the Spring of all their actions; none need Seek the protection of the laws any longer, Since they are thus openly violated; our destiny now depends on a few men, whom their mean extraction, their want of principles, their ignorance and love of money, would make us rather regard as villains and assassins than proper depositaries of the lives and fortunes of their fellow citizens.
These complaints were too well grounded; but, alas! very ufeless for a heart that burnt with thirst of a speedy and just revenge : I theresore
re
%
The HISTORY of
resolved to trust no body with the execution of the Scheme I had sorm ed but myself. I dressed myself in man’s clothes, and in that disguise went to Seek Padillo in a villa he had in the country near Seville, whither he had retired Since the determination of his trial. It was late when I arrived; padillo’s servants ashed my name and my business with their master; I called myself a gentleman, whom night had overtaken on his journey, and wanted a lodging
till the morning. My answer Seemed satissactory, and they ushered me up to their master’s apartment. The sight of a person that had murdered my Sather and husband, made me tremble with horror. He did not know me, but received me very politely, and ordered an apartment for me that was separated from his own
by a gallery. Everything Seenled to
fa
 9
favour my design. When the hour to retire was come, I took leave of Padillo, who showed me himself to the room he had destined for me, and immediately retired to his own. A thousand reflections crowded in upon me; I Sometimes shuddered at the attempt I was meditating: I was shocked at the thoughts of killing a person who had received me So hos pitably under his roof, and wished to have been less civilly treated. On the other hand, my dying husband and father presented themselves to my remembrance : I called to mind my father’s last injunctions, the injustice I had received, the affaltin’s triumph, and the obligation I was under to avenge the death of persons So dear to me; all which reflections made a deep impression on me. At last my determination followed this storm of confused ideas; the thoughts of revenge took place of those of pity.
I rose
go The HISTORY or
I rose Sully resolved to follow this imprefiion; with my Sword drawn I slipped towards padillo’s apartment.
I hesitated long whether I Should open the door, the horror of the night, the approach of the critical minute, perhaps the weakness that is inseparable from our Sex, all con Spired together to shake my resolution add
to this the fear I was in, lest Padillo should be awake. Nevertheless the prosound calm that reigned in the house, the tranquillity with which my enemy Seemed to rest, Sufficiently indicated that this was the fittest time for my enterprise. I opened the door at length, and entered padillo’s room: the faint glimmering of a wax taper placed at his bedside, afforded but just light enough to let me Sec my victim: he Slept profoundly, with his breast uncovered; fortune, either
good or bad, Seemed to have put him
en
 1
entirely in my power. I sat down by his bedside, and employed the moments I yet hesitated to confider him more attentively. This is the altaffin, said I to myself, the destroyer of my family, whom interest has Screened from justice: my father, and you my husband, shall Soon be avenged; the barbarous villain is going to receive the punishment of his cruelty; this hand shall be his executioner. I lifted up my arm to give him the fatal blow; I already pointed the weaoon tq his fire^ss;
when a Sudden Sentiment of compas fion overpowered me all at once; I let fall the Sword; I thought it beneath me to owe my revenge to treachery. I was in inexpreshble agitation; fometimesi looked at Padillo, at others I turned away my eyes, in order to fortisy my drooping courage, and to hide from myself the action
I was
g
I was about to commit. I was going to put out the light when I at last got the better of my weakness, duty prevailed, and I plunged the steel into the traitor’s bosom.
He awaked, bathed in his own blood: he wanted to Spealc, but nature refused its assistance. He fixed his eyes attentively on me, and knew me to be the person he had lodged in his house. Rage and despair glowed in his face; but in a moment gave way to the paleness which approaching death Spread over his countenance. Die, cried I, unhappy wretch, die,
not by the hand of any man, but by a woman’s, who has revenged herself : know that I am Blanche, whole father and husband you So cruelly murdered.
On hearing this he endeavoued to throw himself out of bed, and advance towards me: my name seemed
to
t
 3
to have reanimated his senses; he darted a furious look at me; rage Seemed to stay his departing Soul, but the first step he made out of his bed consigned him to the arms of death; his knees gave way, and he fell breathless at my Seet.
I left his room with precipitation,
I went into the garden, and escaped over the walls. After travelling the whole night I arrived about break of day at Seville. I returned to my own lodgings quite Spent with fatigue, my mind filled with a thousand horrid ideas, and my heart beating as if it would leave my body.
Evert the very appearance of a crime is accompanied with remorse: Such a sensation naturally arises from the horror we have of Shedding of blood.
padillo’s death filled Seville with Surprise; the magistrates went to the
Spot,;
#
9
Spot, and arrested Some of his Servants, who denied their being guilty, and Said they suspected a stranger whom their master had lodged in the house the very night the murder had been committed.
All the informations that were taken were in vain; my enterprise was buried in an entire Secrecy; I had not communicated it to any person whatsoever. This Secured me from the prosecution of padillo’s family; yet overcome by Sentiments of a conscious fear I could not dis fipate, I was going to Seek Some place of retreat distant from Seville, when I heard that one of padillo’s Servants was committed to prison on Suspicion, and was on the point of i^being condemned. This news made me change my resolution; I immediately determined to clear the Innocent, and rather lose my own life
than
 5
then See another Suffer for what I had done. I flew to the place where the magistrates were assembled, and was introduced into the hall of audience. The judges, - surprised at my arrival, inquired into the cause; and I Satisfied their curiosity in the following manner :
I hear you are about to condemn one of padillo’s domestics whom
#
you suspect of the murder of his master; he is not guilty; it is just, then, that the true criminal Should be delivered over to you in the place of an innocent person; you Shall know who it is this moment.
A consused murmur arose in the assembly; Surprise was painted in every face; they all showed the greatest eagerness to be informed of the matter.
It is I, addressing myself to the grand corregidor, it is I have committed
g
mitted the crime for which another is going to Suffer, if it can be called a crime what just revenge made me undertake. I woyld be still ready to do it again, if heaven had not already favoured my design. There is no witness, no accomplice, no ac cuser but myself, and it is therefore me alone you ought to punish; pronounce Sentence of death against me, and this to the many other unjust Sentences you have pasted, Sell my
life and your own honour to padillo’s family; let my blood be the Seal of your iniquitious bargain. I have avenged my father and husband, and shall die Satisfied; the approach of death does not frighten me, it is only for Such as you to tremble; virtue is my Support, which you cannot shake. Who knows to give death, knows also to receive if.
This
 7
This speech, delivered with Such intrepidity, startled these gentlemen, who Seldom met with people of so much courage. I was nevertheless ordered to prison, and padillo’s family was informed of the discovery. The poor Servant was fet at liberty, and they resolved to wreak the full weight of their wrath on me.
Notwithstanding my impending fate I fiept Soundly; the apprehension of death did not disturb my re pose. I was quite certain of my doom, the perfidy and avarise of my judges left me no room to doubt of the stroke that was to follow; nor was I deceived in my conjecture. I was condemned, and they caused my Sentence be read to me in prison.; I heard it with the greatest composure. The day for the execution was Settled. As I hoped Soon to join my Spouse and Sather, the injustice
vol. I. E of
9
of my enemies gave me no uneasi ness: in this extremity my only hope was in God. I addrelsed my complaint to him alone, as to the only judge who would hear me : the fear of passing for guilty in the opinion of my country was the only reason made me regret life; I wished therefore to have an opportunity of justifying myself before my death. The fatal day was at hand, when, in the • middle of the night, my prison door opened, I heard a voice Say to me, Be not alarmed, and make no noise; I will deliver you from the hands of your persecutors. That instant I felt Somebody take hold of my arm; I Suffered myself to be conducted without the least resistance, though I did not know who my deliverer was.
We traversed the city, and found at one of the gates a carriage waiting
 9
ing Sorus, into which I entered, and a gentleman quite a stranger to me, took his place beside me, Several. Servants Sollowing us on horseback. Madam, Said my deliverer, how happy am I to have had it in my power to give you a proof of my affection! yet though I have been Ib fortunate as under heaven to have procured you your liberty, I cannot flatter myself with the hope of any return on your part; let it Suffice, that I have Secured your life and virtue from any future danger; my destiny forbids me to expect the least reward. This favour, replied I, is much above ray esteem, which is all I can offer you. Your esteem! interrupted the stranger hastily: alas! when you know who I am, you will perhaps think it your duty to deny me even that. What I have done might claim • Some merit, and your generosity
E 2 would
JO
\
would prompt you to acknowledge it; but my name and family must always make me appear guilty in your eyes; I am innocent, and yet must bear the punishment. You will hate me; but I am happy, Since I
have been So fortunate as to Save your life. Live, adorable Blanche, live, and leave me to die. I hope you will at least regret a wretch that loves you; this is the only return I dare to ash. I was quite amazed, and felt my Surprise and curiosity encrease at every word he uttered.
For heaven’s Sake, Said I, ease my trouble, let me know to whom I am indebted for my liberty: can you doubt my gratitude? He answered me only with a Sigh. I was very much perplexed, and did not know why the stranger should So obstinately resufe discovering his name, and what his guilt could be that deserved
CONSTANTIA. loi
Terved my hatred. The more I endeavoured to fathom this mystery, the more I found myself at a loss what to think. Well then, Says the stranger, you promise not to hate me, when I tell you who I amwhy fiiould I hate you, replied I, that would be badly requiting your favours.
We had by this time almost got out of a great forest we had to pass
through : day began at last to break, but the thickness of the trees hindered us from observing it; at length we
reached the end of the wood. Who
#
do you think, madam, I found to be my deliverer? how great was my Surprise! what pain did it give me to see Don Garcia, padillo’s brother, at my feet! I shrieked at the Sight of him. Alas! madam, Says Don Garcia, you have already,
E 3 So
%
The HISTORY of
forgot the promise you just now made me; am 1 answerable for my bro thbr’s crime? You have Sacrificed him to your just resentment, if that is not Sufficient, revenge your father’s and hushand’s murder on me also; pierce with this dagger the breast of an unhappy wretch who will love you with his last breath; let death be my reward. You make me no answer: alas! you turn away your eyes; are you afraid to See the pain you give me?
I could not overcotne the astonishment I was Seized with on Seeing a person at my feet whom I knew not whether to pity or hate. What! cried I, is it you, Don Garcia, brother to Don joseph de Padillo? Ah! why did you not rather Suffer me to remain where I wasmust I owe my lise to you? why was you So generous? Don Garcia, do not deprive
me
N.
 03
«
me of the just cause I have to hate you; it is what I am obliged to: in vain would I — Spare me the affliction of telling you that my duty takes place of every other Sentiment. reserve all your hatred for me, replied he, but allow me to complete what I have begun; allow me to convey you from the fury of my relations; come with me — Ah! Don Garcia, as you are So generous, endeavour
to gain my esteem even against my will; 1 expect a new favour from you; conduct me to the house of an uncle of my late hushand’s, who lives at Madrid; for only in flying from you i Shall. 1 cease to hate yon. 5o then you would cease to hate me, nterrupted Don Garcia }■ I Shall in lantly theresore obey your commands; yet see to what a degree I love mu. I know I shall render myself hr ever unhappy, ymt I will Submit;
E 5 I will
/
10
I will Sacrifice my happiness to you; 1 shall perhaps be deprived of the pleasure of beholding you, but you will remember meperhaps I may come to occupy a less odious place in your, heart; perhaps you may one day give me your esteem; I know I shall never be able to Support parting with you, but you will cease then to hate me.
I could not but pity and esteem him, which his generosity and humanity most truly deserved. Duty and honour required no more than that I should keep the favourable Sentiments I began to entertain for Don Garcia to myself, and he was unhappy enough in not knowing them.
This young nobleman was very different from his brother: a thousand good qualities rendered him amiable in the eyes of all the world; he had no other fault but that of being
Pa
 05
padrllo’s brother. Don Garcia, during the remaining part of our journey, showed me all possible respect; his eyes indeed, less timid than his lips, entertained me every moment with his love; but the fear of offending, checked him from giving me any other mark of it.. Both of us were unhappy, and neither could see any prospect of relief.
We arrived at length at Madrid, my uncle received us very affectionately; I told him the obligations I laid under to Don Garcia, but had the precaution to conceal his name and family. The day of Separation at last came, that fatal day which has embittered the remainder of my life. I would have willingly avoided Seeing Don Garcia, and vas asraid lest he should read the the trouble of my heart in my countenance;
l
nance; but his departure increased that fear, and ’augmented my weakness: all my precautions was in vain, the unhappy lover addressed me with tears in his eyes. I must then depart, Said he, I must leave you! what, adorable Blanche, must I bid you an eternal adieu? must my eyes behold you no longer, notwithstanding I love you more than ever? will you continue to hate me? you have given way enough to revenge and the memory of a beloved Spouse and parent. Alas I vouchsafe me but one look of pity, to Soften the rigour of my Sat, or See me expire at your Seer. Don Garcia threw himself at my feet, he bathed them with his tears; then my resolution began to sail, tender feelings took place of duty, and I was on the point of acknowledging my weakness, Don Garcia, Said I, with a faltering voice, depart, ssy
from
i
-
 07
from this place, I do not hate you; I am Sorry heaven has formed you of a guilty race, Blanche will never forget you; she would have even loved you — I repented, but it was too late, of having pronounced those last words; they overwhelmed me vvith confusion; and as they had but too much laid open my heart, I thought it my duty to leave Don Garcia, and retire immediately. He remained motionless, almost expiring, and even without the power of complaining.
He begged to See me once more, 'before he Sat out on his journey, but I was inflexible, reason had resumed her Sway in ray mind. Don Garcia at length left Madrid more in love than ever; he was overpowered with grief, and the more unhappy because he knew my Sentiments for him, without being able to reap any advantage from them.
He
i
He left a letter for me, which was delivered after his departure; ' I read it trembling, it was filled with true sentiments of generosity and tenderness, which could not but heighten the regret and affection 1 already felt for him.
His absence rendered him still dearer to me; I gave myself up entirely to grief, and it was now too late for any means to despel ir, as I myself had refused the cure : I was pining away in a distemper for which I Saw no remedy. Alas I what an unhappy being am I, Said I to myself, how unaccountable is my Sat! padillo’s brother is my deliverer, he is every way amiable, yet I cannot, dare not, love him; I ought to hate him; nevertheless he loves me, and has preserved my lise. Alas! my father, and you my spouse, as you
are
%
109
are now fully avenged, I should die freely, because I cannot live for Don Garcia; why should I Seek to live? my lise can only redouble the poignancy of my misfortunes, as it can only Serve to nourish them.
My health decayed perceptibly; a mortal languor overwhelmed me, Don garcia’s image everywhere pur sued me, to every other thing I was altogether indifferent.
My uncle, whose Sortune began to decline, left Spain, and took me with him; we retired to this little house which I now occupy, and which was one of the Sew that yet remained to him of all his patrimony. We lived contented in our retirement, till the death of my uncle opened anew these wounds, which reason and time bad Scarcely closed : but this was only a forerunner of'
much
n
much greater evils which heaven had yet in store for me. A stranger, who had long sought ray dwelling, and discovered’ it at last, brought me a letter from Don Garciathis name alone was Sufficient to recall my former calamities to my mind; but little could I imagine, that I was yet reserved for still heavier afflictions than those already pash I opened the fatal letter, which has been the occasion of a. continual Source of tears ever Since: love and despair have too deeply imprinted it in my mind, that I should ever lose the memory of it; the contents were as follow:
“Allow me, madam, to entertain you for the last time, with a passion that costs me my life; your ab
t
fence has born so Severely upon
me, that I cannot longer Support
it. Alas! why did I know that
your
CONSTANTIA. III
your hatred had ceased I ail is over with me. I quit without regret a life which has long been odious to me, because I cannot pafs it with you. Farewell! my misfortune is to have loved you too late, and my crime is to have been pa dillo’s brother. Remember the unhappy Don Garcia, think that he only lived for you alone for the moment he Saw you; and that it is for you he dies.”
It is impossible to describe, continued Blanche, the transports of grief and despair I was in : you know, without doubt, the power of love; you will easily imagine how dismal and terrible my Situation was.
The Stranger insormed me of every particular of Don garcia’s death : he told me, that ever Since he lest Madrid, his health had declined, and that he expired repeating my
name.
I
name. Here, Says he, presenting me a gold box, is Don garcia’s heart, which he ordered me, when dying, to carry to you, as the last pledge of his love.
You will easily conceive what a Sliock Such a present was to me; I bedewed it with my tears, and kissed a thoulaud times the box that contained it. I bestowed on Don garcia’s heart every mark of tenderness I had resused himself when alive.
1 lived retired from all the world; I preferred Solitude to every pleasure; I gave myself up to grief, Don garcia’s heart followed me everywhere, mine did not breathe but to love his; and every time I viewed that
dear image, a new deluge of Sorrow
«
overpowered me.
One habituates ones Self to Sorrow; the excess of my misfor
■ lines rendered me at last insensible;
0
every
f
 13
every moment of my life was a new death: without doubt heaven preserved my days to prolong my Sufferings. Don garcia’s name was the only word that escaped my lips, his heart the only object I Saw, and his untimely fate the only loss I now regretted. I addressed my complaint
to his heart as if it heard me: it is /
/
now allowed, cried I, to own my tenderness for you, whilst you can be no longer scnsible to an acknowledgement you So often begged of me in vain. What, Don Garcia, our hearts are only united the moment death Separates them for ever! you loved me with ardour, and in return I have been the unhappy cause of your death. Wretch that I am, was it not enough to have Sacrificed your brother must you also Suffer Sora crime which another committed? but, alas! you hear me not, my dearest
I
ess: Don Garcia; my complaints are in vain! Had you bat known the excels of my passion before you died, I should have less regretted your death;, you would have forgiven the cruel necef sity I was in of Sacrificing my affection to my duty, and have met your fate with more tranquillity.
This, continued Blanche, all in tears at the remembrance,, was my only consolation. Don garcia’s heart stood me in ctead of company, friends, and all other earthly comforts. I despised lise too much to Seek an end of it; I waited death with tranquillity, and resigned myself without murmuring to all the designs of Providence. Till this mo -- menti have kept this Secret locked in my own bosom.: ' this dear pledge of a most tender and unfortunate lover has been hitherto hid from your eyesi have kept in a closet
ad
»
115
adjoining to my apartment; if you have any curiossty to See it, I will now Satisfy you.
Constantia readily accepted blanche’s offer, and they hastened to the a partment. Blanche opened the door and entered first. With what horror was Constantia Seized at Such a mournful Sight! There stood at the farther end of the room a table in form of a tomb, covered with black velvet, on which Don garcia’s heart was placed. A Silver lamp, Suspended over each end of the tomb, stied a faint light over this melancholy Scene. All the horrors of death Seemed to dwell in this dreary mansion, the light of which alone was enough to deprive one of life.
How ingenious is love in tormenting itself, when assisted by Sorrow! it carries despair to Such an excess, as none but itself can feel or describe.
Con
0
t
n
« '
Constantia stood Some time motionless through astonishment. Ah! says Blanche, I See, madam, your afflictions cannot be compared to mine; yet little did she know at that moment what new strokes Sat was preparing for Constantia!
This, Says she, pressing Don garcia’s heart to her lips, is the only consolation I have yet remaining; I come daily to weep at the Soot of this tomb, and even pass a great part of the night in this place of horrors. This is the manner in which I have lived these many years. The rae dancholy I Saw you plunged in, made you dear to me, from the first moment I beheld you; you are the only companion I have had in my soli t ude.
Constantia, throwing her eyes round the chamber, perceived an open coffin, which object redoubled her
Suri

 17
4
/
Lirprize. This coffin, Says Blanche, s mine, it is destined to receive my ishes; it is daily before my eyes; lere the heart of my lover shall be nclosed with me, when heaven thinks it to call me hence.
Constantia was astonished at blanche’s firmness, They left this nelancholy place, after Blanche had igain kissed Don garcia’s heart, wa: ered it with a shower of tears, and eplaced it on the tomb.
They returned to octavio’s room,
riiis is not all, continued Blanche,
•>
that has happened to me; octavio’s
birth is a mystery I must also clear
«
rpi
Here Octavio interrupted Blanche by inquiring for Julia. i Constantia was obliged to call her; these two lovers, vvliose union was perfect, seemed only to live for one another. Nature, which had formed them for
each
i
each other, took pleasure in uniting their hearts by Such bonds as no human power could Separate.
Constantia pressed Blanche to resume the thread of her history. Octavio and Julia joined their requests to hers; but they little knew what reverses of fortune were awaiting them. Blanche thus resumed her story:
I was now quite habituated to melancholy; reading and reflection was almost the only pleasure I was capable of enjoying. I used Sometimes to walk out by the fide of the wood. One day I entered farther into it than usual, my mind entirely occupied with Don Garcia, when the cries of an infant reached my ears; I listened for Some moments, then struck into a path that Seemed to lead to the place from whence the cries came: at every step I advanced, they encreased, which made me think I
was
. 15
was not far from the .place where the child lay. At last I found the infant at the foot of a tree, almost expiring and bathed in his own blood, from a wound he had received on the head. Some paces distant from the child lay an old man, covered with wounds, who appeared to have expired but a few moments before. I was struck'with horror at the sight, and at a loss what to do; but my heart immediately determined me in favour of the unhappy infant. When we ourselves have ex perienced misfortunes, we are the more inclined to pity and relieve others. I look upon every unfortunate person as my brother and Sister; affliction alone is enough to interest me in favour of a stran
I took him in ray arms and carried him home. 1 called him Oc
%

«
j2
tavio, and educated him as my own Son. Is it possible that heaven only ' gave him to resume its gift So Soon 1
Blanche could not pronounce these last: words without a stood of tears, Is it really So, said Octavio, embracing her, am I not your Son.? ah! why did you not leave me in an error that was dearer to me than life? or am I unworthy to be called your fon? If fate has denied me that happiness, I poffess at least for you all the Sentiments a fon ought to have; and you, dear mother, (allow me still the endearing expression) which I owe you by so many ties, regard me still at least as an unhappy youth, who is doubly yours, both by his misfortunes and the affection he beafs you.
Blanche could not disengage her sels from octavio’s arms, their faces were bathed in tears. Constantia
rain
I
CONSTANTIA. izi
ningled hers with theirs. As for. iilia she knew not whether to grieve ir rejoice at this discovery: she flat ered herself her lover was of some llustrious family, and that heaven /oiild join her destiny to his.
Hope is love’s last and greatest re 3urce; it only serves to amuse us, 7q ourselves Savour the deceit; we cil our eyes to exclude every object hat could dispel the dear illusion; lope is the only pleasure that is never xhausted.
Constantia could not recover from ler Surprise. What I Says she to Blanche, can you give us no information of octavio’s family do you tnow nothing at all of his parents.? have only a letter, replied Blanche, which I found lying at a little di t^nce from the old man, when ihance so fortunately directed my iteps towards Octavio; I will go vol. I. F for
12
for it; perhaps on reading it we may find Something in it to explain this mystery, though for my own part I have no great hopes. Blanche left the room, and immediately returned with the letter in her hand; she gave it Constantia to read. Scarce had julia’s mother cast her eyes on the fatal writing, but she fell sense less into her daughter’s arms. Blanche could not comprehend the cause of her Sudden illness Octavio was no less Surprised than her. Constantia gradually recovered her senses by julia’s assistance. Opening her eyes at length. No, cried she, in a dying tone, interrupted with sighs, no, generous Blanche, and you my daughter, cease your care for my life, leave an unhappy creature to die, whom an ungrateful wretch has betray’d; whom, alas! I still feel I love in Spite of all his perfidy. julia ^alas! my
un
 25
inhappy daughter, might you still cmain ignorant of the fatal Secret — enough then that you have a brother — : hat this brother is before your eyes, ind that it is no other than, your over — Octavio.
Octavio my brother! cries Julia. Nhat, is your daughter my sister, replied Octavio? are not you then my mother? Octavio, in that case, would be your Son, added Blanche.
Such a Situation is easier conceived than expressed: : this and read it, continued Constantia, giving the letter to her daughter, and let me learn the full extent of my misfortunes.
Blanche was chilled with horror; Constantia fainted anew. Julia took the letter trembling, and read it with a new addition of fear; its contents were as follow:
F 2 I con
V
12
I conjure you. Sir, to take this infant to your protection, he is, next to his father, all I have dear in this world. I know: I shall fall a Sacrifice to the barbarity of my family, yet would I die Satisfied, provided they do, not extend their cruelty to
the innocent babe. Farewell. In
• * •
into my dear child Sentiments worthy of his birth; let him be acquainted with his misfortunes, and often converse with him on that head; Speak also Sometimes to him of his mother, there may be a time when he will requite your favours; and, lastly, I beg you to show my letter to my unfortunate husband, assure him, that even in death I loved him: may St. Val never forget his Victoria de St. Julette.”
What is this my father, cried Julia? Yes, it is your father, replied
Constantia. Octavio, you are then
my
4
CONSTANTIA. iz^
ny brother, pursues the unhappy [alia; alas! I can no longer doubt
t.
This discourse, far from clearing ip blanche’s doubts, rendered the irhole affair more dark and con iifed to her. She listened with great attention to everything they Said, et could find nothing to Satisfy her mriosity.
You have been too long kept in uspence, madam, said Constantia; must tell you the Source of all my nisfortunes, as it is just my Sincerity hold equal yours.
• They retired to another apart nent, leaving Julia with octa 'io; here Constantia gave Blanche, faithful account of her raisfor unes: she acknowledged that she i^as united to St. Val by no other )onds than those of love, which she egged Blanche to conceal from Jii
r
iz
lia, as Ihe could not bear to have her shame exposed to her daughter.
Alas I now, says she, I see how I have been betrayed, no doubt this Victoria de St. Julette is still alive, the traitor has abused ..my credulity, and abandoned me, after having triumphed over my weakness, to make my rival happy. Wretch that I am, added she, ever to have credited the oaths of a perjured man; I thought he loved me, because I loved him. Ungrateful monster! why, after robbing me of my honour, did you not also take away my life? doubtless you only Spared it to render me more unhappy. But why do I accuse you. Since I only am guilty. Pardon, dear St, Val, I See I still love you in julia’s person. Ah St. Val I St. Val!
This was all she could pronounce; nor could Blanche by advice, tears,
or
 27
r intfeaties, prevail upon her to mo erate her grief.
Julia and Octavio, when the other
*•
VO were gone, remained in profound lence, with their eyes fixed on the round. Julia even trembled to life hers towards Octavio. Nature, lught them both how different the ames of brother and Sister are from lose of lover and mistress; that they old not love each other So tenderly 5 formerly; and that an insurmount ble bar was now put to their future nion.
When it was time to retire, fare id then, my brother. Said Julia; irewel, sister, replied Octavio. With fhat pain was that word pronounced y both; they knew not from whence : proceeded, but they felt they were nhappy, without being able to dis ern the cause.
F 4 Na
12
Nature, in creating pleasures, has formed them of different, degrees. Some are more lively, others more tranquil; the enjoyrrient of the one is accompanied with trouble, indifference follows the other; the affection we bear to a Sister is not so strong as what we feel for a mistress. This difference arises from an imperfection inherent in our nature, which will
i
not allow us to relish pure and innocent pleasures, though they only deserve that name. sense always predominates in the heart, which is only touched by what is gross; and this js what keeps the Soul in igno* ranee of herself. Who can mend this defect in us, but the Same nature
that has made it?
As Soon as Constantia Sound hcr
Self alone, she gave Sree vent to her Sorrow. She was Sometimes all tenderness, at others all rage and despair;

\
CONSTANTIA 129
pair; a thousand times did she wish St. Val and her rival in her power, to plunge a dagger into both their hearts; again she looked upon him with compassion, and imputed everything to Sat. Thus St. Val appeared either innocent or guilty by turns, according to the passion that Swayed
her.
Julia was no less agitated than Constantia; the name of brother was
a weight she could not Support; how
'♦
charming, on the other harid, did that of lover appear! Alas! Octavio, Said she to herself, all is over; ties of blood Separate us for ever; the Same nature which has united our hearts forbids us to think of any other union. Octavio is no longer my lover but my brother! he will make Some happier woman his wisel he will no longer live for me,, he will love another. I shudder at the
F 5 thought;
oath HISTORY OF
t
thought; death would be less terrible. Why must the ties o, S blood oppose those of friendship.? 'Must our having the same person for our father be a bar to our love.? is this nature’s law? does she admit of Such exceptions f or is it not rather owing to the prejudice and avarice of men? Octavio, am I then forbid to call you lover? I shall now bear a different name; but will my heart acknowledge the change? Shall I with the title of mistress lay aside the tender Sentiments I feel? and can I ever look upon you with the indifferent eye of a Sister? No, I shall always be the same, I shall always love you with equal ardour; you will be always present in my mind. As this is all I am allowed to hope for, my tongue shall never betray the Secret; but my heart will always preserve its •flame, it will still adore you, Octavio
alone
CONSTANTIA. iji
alone will be all its happiness. Is it not enough that I remain Silent, what does reason require more?
i Julia was almost distracted with the continual struggles (he underwent. Sometimes she reproached herself for her tenderness towards Octavio, but then it was only reason that Spoke on the other hand, her heart accused her for not loving him enough.
In vain do we try to root out our inclinations, we may lop the branches, but the trunk will always remain: let reason do what it will, love will always bear, the Sway.
Julia in the midst of her trouble found some ease, as octavio’s health Seemed to mend, his wound began to close; and though he could not live for her, it was a great comfort that she still enjoyed his presence,
But
«
1^
I
But this hated change of a lover to a brother was only a forerunner of new alarms, (i^ite Spent with fatigue towards morning she fell into a profound fieep; butshe hadnotflept long
when she was awakened by her mother drowned in tears. Rise, Julia, cries
Conflantiia, Octavio calls you. Octavio! replied Julia in Surprise; but from whence proceed these tears you strive in vain to conceal? What new misfortunes threaten us? I had Scarce begun to Sleep, when — Come, my chjsd, interrupted her mother, you shall kn^pw immediately, only remember there are certain occasions on which
f ^
must arm ourselves with fortitude, and Submit patiently to the will of heaven. I cannot discover your meaning, replied Julia; but what does Octavio want with me? For heaven’s Sake remove my fears. Constantia made no answer; but, raised her eyes
to
 33
: o heaven, walked on to octavio’s ipartinent.
Julia on entering looked round ber; but, gracious heaven, what were : he objects Ihe perceived! Blanche itting in a state of stupefaction, her irms across, and her eyes riveted to Octavio, who lay almost expiring, with his looks eagerly turned towards the door in expectation of Julia. Such a Spectacle would have moved a heart less tender than julia’s: she advanced towards Octavio, and attempting to take his hand, which he held out to her, Sunk upon the bed.
Approach, Says Octavio, O you whom I dare not name — I Seel I have but a few moments to live, and Since my death is the will oshcaven, it is our duty without murmuring to Submit.
Your death! cries Julia, roused by the fatal Sound, must I lose my dear
Octa
>
The HISTORY of
Octavio? Yes, Julia, we must part for ever; this is the last time you will behold an unfortunate brother who adores you : let my memory be ever dear to you; but remeiriber also you have a mother for whom you ought to live, whose only consolation you are; may heaven give you strength to Support this trial. Farewell, my Sister, one last embrace, this mark of tenderness is still allowed; and you, madam, who have So long Supplied the place of a parent to me, forget a wretch who has never had it in his power to show you his gratitude. If I was ever dear to you, O take care of Julia, let her occupy the place I held in your affection, let my. Sister — Octavio could not proceed, a deadly Sweat bedewed his face, his eyes grew dim, a Sudden tremor shook his whole frame; he bathed Julia, whom he held in his embrace, with his
tears;
#
 35
ars; and, taking her hand, laid it i his heart, as if he meant to con: rate his last breath to her.
Blanche and Constantia called to m in vain, he heard them not: even ilia had vanished from his sight, and " e soul Seemed only to Suspend its ght from the regret he had to leave ilia behind him.
these two lovers as they had lived strictly united. So they Seemed rea f to expire together. Constantia was tears, she was apprehensive for the 'e of her daughter; this new stroke doubled the weight of the first, lanche embraced Octavio, and ad effed her complaints to him as if : had been still fensible of her for iw.
A Sudden noise that rose in the )urt, drew their attention for a mo lent from the melancholy object be ire them; they beheld a man from the
win
I
13
#
window, who, though pale and disfigured, still preserved a certain grandeur in his air, and Something noble in his countenance. Another person, who Seemed to be his Servant heljped him to dismount from his horse, and he entered just as Octavio fainted in blanche’s arms.
/
V
t
End of Vol. I.
CONSTANTIA
I
AND HER
Daughter JULIA,
A N
ITALIAN HISTORY;
WITH
A DISCOURSE
#
ON
ROMANCES.
VOL. II
_ _ _ _ __ ^ ._
/
DUBLIN:
Printed by D. Chamberlaine J. Potts, J. Hoey, jun. J. Williams, and C Ingham. m, dcc, LXIX
s
/
»
4
0
r
i
> •
t 3 ]
- -- -- - ..........
S
CONSTANTIA,
'AND HER
V
DAUGHTER JULIA,
in ITALIAN HISTORY.
f T TILL you be so good, ladies, VV Says the stranger, as to affa northeast to pay a debt of gratitude? I lave been everywhere Seeking a young; entleman to whom I owe my life; e must be Somewhere hereabout. What, Sir, answered Blanche, are you le stranger that was attacked by roba
2 bers }
/

bers? The Same, replied he; where is my deliverer > Can you not inform me? Alas! Sir, Said Blanche, interrupting him, he is before you: he was wounded by those assassins; we are on the point of losing him.
A flood of tears, which gushed from her eyes, hindered her from uttering more. The stranger advanced towards the bed: O heavens, cried he, has my life been preserved but at Such a rate! He fixed his eyes on Octavio, from whom, he could not remove them.
What, madam. Says he to Blanche, must the generous youth die for having come So timely to my assistahce? I then should be miserable for being the cause of his death. The longer I behold him,, the more I find myself interested in his Sat. No, no, you shall not lose him, heaven will be kinder, and restore my preserver to me.
Alas,

das, madam, by your concern, I per eive he is very dear to you; am I hen So unhappy as to deprive you of
, Son blanche’s tears redoubled:
>
lolibtless, Said She, he is my Son, as le has for me all the affection of a hild, and I feel for him all the ten lerness/of a mother.
During these effussons, Constantia xamined the stranger with attention, it length Octavio Setched a deep Sigh, nd opening stowly his eyes fixed them' n the stranger, who held his hands iasped in his, and looked at him vith a fondness which encreased eve
i
y moment;
What do I See, Says Octavio, in a iieak voice.? is it possible.? what. Sir, lave you escaped the hands of the dllains? have I been So lucky as to ireserve your lise? Yes, replied the banger, warmly embracing him, I we everything to you. You have.
A 3 Snatched

Snatched me from the jaws of death; but can I Survive my deliverer? 1 should have rather chosen to perish by the hands of the assassins than to live to behold So shocking a Scene.
The sight of the stranger Seemed to give Octavio new life; he found himself better, the deadly pale was fled, and with him also Julia recovered.
No, Says Octavio to the stranger, you need not regret me, as I have the comfort to know before I die that I have preserved your life. I freely re sign my days to preserve yours, though I should wish to live to deserve your friendship, as the first sight of you has raised emotions in my breast unknown to she before. Alas, says the stranger, they cannot equal those I Selt at Seeing you. You are become So dear to me, that your recovery alone can in any measure
Soften

Soften the rigour of my fate; live, worthy young man, and be to me, instead of friends, a fon and all I have lost..
The stranger on finishing these words, let fall Some tears, a deep melancholy overspread his face; Blanche, Constantia, and Julia joined in octavio’s concern for the stranger, and they felt themselves more affected than they could well account for.
Blanche ordered an apartment to be prepared for the stranger j but he declined going to rest, and chose to Spend the night by Octavio, who began to give hopes of recovery.
The stranger told them, that as he was riding through the wood with his Servant, they were Set upon by four villains, who had. dragged them both to a cave, leaving their horses bound to a tree without. After
A 4 binding

binding the Servant, they vvere proceeding to the last extremities with the master, when octavio’s arrival made them suspend the.execution. Two of the villains Seized Octavio, and Sorced him out of the cave. That in the mean time, after struggling Some time with the two remain> ing villains, he had got hold of, his Sword, and wounded one of them; upon which the other fled : that he had thereupon immediately Set his Servant at liberty, and hurried out of the cave; that he had everywhere Sought his desender, impatient to know if he was yet alive. I hoped. Said he, to have come in time to Succour my deliverer; but heaven has been pleas ed to deprive me of that Satisfaction.
What, added the stranger, addressing himself to Blanche, is not this young man your fon? and who then is his mother ^ who his parents?
They

'hey no doubt love him, and are fen ble of the happiness of having Such youth for their Son; as for me I m the most unhappy of men, I have )st my wife, my fon, in a word, all held dear. Alas, life is become a urden to me I why, generous stran er, did you preserve it Every word the stranger uttered ierced octavio’s heart. No, replied lanche, fetching a deep ssgh, he is ot my fon, he is an unhappy youth nly connected with me by the bonds f adverssty: you shall one day know ow he came under my protection.
I find myself prompted, resumed le stranger, to give you an example f confidence; I never before felt Such n impulse to enter into a detail of ly misfortiines. The more I conss er this young man’s features, the eeper impression they make upon northeast. If he has no fether, he shall vol. II B find
l
find one in me; yes, I will love him, continued he, embracing Octavio, as my own Son; and then proceeded to give the following narrative.
0
The STRANGER’S History.
I W A S born at Paris of a good family; there were two brothers of us, both unhappy, both victims of love. Our father left us at his death pos feffed of a very considerable Sortune; an affair of honour obliged my brother to leave his native country. I for my part gave myself up to all the " usual amusements of those of my years, without attachment to any one in particular.
One day as I was going to Versailles, there happened a young gentleman, with his Sister and her waiting maid, to be in the coach with
me;
CONSTANTIA. n
e; I had no Sooner cast my eyes on e lady than my heartfelt one of ose Sudden impressions we cannot fcern the cause of, and which six e Soul irresistably : she Seemed to I between Seventeen and eighteen, n air of melancholy Spread over : r face heightened her charms. She d the graces of misfortifne, graces ore powerful, more penetrating, id more moving than any other latfoever: adversity gives beauty an terest in every one that beholds it, id by showing it less haughty, invites ore strongly to love it, as our love Such an object Seems a debt owing humanity; and Such a passion al jys makes a rapid progress in a : nerous mind. Such is the noble urce of those passions which the eatest part of mankind termed ro antic. A person capable of tender ipressions, must have a great fund of
B 2 Senss
1
Senssbility, Sentiments of probity, and a taste for every virtue, and then one is almost always Sure to be unhappy : however in the height of our distress we enjoy the idea of thinking we are Superior to the rest of mankind; that onr being is more perfect, our soul more elevated, because more Senssble. Thus everybody, if they lose on one hand, strive, to gain on the other; and even from adversi ty itself draw consolation.
these reflections have interrupted the thread of my story; however, they may be necessary to acquaint you with my way of thinking, from whence you may easily judge, that a heart formed like mine is suscepti ble of feeling all the strength of love, and experience all its reverses.
During our journey the young lady Spoke little; I observed her often lift her eyes to heaven and ssgh; Ihe
even
 3
en Shed many tears, which she ove to conceal. How much did they ■eady affect me I I wished to make : r Sufferings my own, by sharing em. But in proportion as I loved e Sister, I felt nothing but hatred r the brother : it was as if nature id informed me, that he was the use of the Sorrow I remarked in e lovely stranger. In fine I con ived a dislike to him without know g the cause.
We parted at versailles, after pay g mutual compliments on Such oc ifions, which are generally nothing it words of course.
The fair stranger had already flung le into that charming reverie, that eet melancholy, which is the cha icteristic of an infant passion. * At inner I eat little. Spoke still less, id towards the evening escaped from numerous company to go to the
B 3 park,
1
park, and to reflect upon my present Situation, to examine my heart, or in reality to indulge my growing passion, which is all the fruit we reap from our inquiries on Such occasions. I chose, as you will easily imagine, the most; gloomy and Solitary walk. I was drawn from this enchanting musing by two persons difcourstng together in an adjoining thicket: a Secret impulse obliged me to lend an attentive ear, and I clearly distinguished a woman’s voice.
Alas! Said one shedding a flood of tears, cease my dear Marianne, cease your endeavours to comfort me, all my hopes are gone. I am Sacrificed to my brothers avarice, made a victim to their ambition •, they intend to bury me for the remainder of my life in a convent, and force me to take the vov/s : they seek my death. Let these unnatural brothers take my
fortune;
 5
artune; but at least let them allow le my liberty. No, I am deter lined I would never enter a cloister;
would rather be reduced to the reatest misery than embrace Such a : ate of life. Alas! what would my ither Say, if he Saw me thus aban oned, and Sacrificed to the avarice f his other children! Losing him I )st everything; fortune, friends, and ven life, for I feel I shall not long irvive Such cruel usage.
Believe, madam, replied the other, bat I will do all in my power to as st you to prevent their cruel designs: hough I am but a Servant, be assured 0 body can be more attached to your iterest than I am; I feel all your arrows as if they were my own, bey pierce to my inmost Soul. No, ou shall not go to a convent, though 11 the asylum I can offer you is a ittle house, where my mother Jives
B 4 in
i
in a remote corner in Champagne, whither you may retire and live unknown; at least you will enjoy your liberty, and may have reason to hope for a change of fortune: we shall find means to acquaint your aunt, and interest her in your favour, and she certainly will not delay coming to your assistance: but at present we must endeavour to ward off the blow with which you are threatened. If you once enter a cloister, you are for ever lost. You shall remain concealed in our village; my brother will attend and Serve you. Alas! madam, added she, I forgot that you are my mistress, and I have been treating you as my equal, or a friend and sister. The little money I can earn at Service here, I shall transmit to you. Oh! could I but make you happy even at the expense of
life!
She
 7
She could Scarce finish these last words, her tears choked her voice : was struck with her generosity. So ien. Said I to myself, there are yet )me remaining sensiblc toothers mil irtunes. Who could imagine that, 1 so low a rank, one should find mtiments worthy of the most exalted ation, while these cruel brothers irough a mean and Sordid love of loncy, break through at once the es of nature and humanity? Alas, ithout doubt, the lady I Saw this lorning whose image is too strongly igraved in my heart, is nojess un ippy: her brother, I fear, too much Sembles these I now heard of, it is ?rhaps the Same; S must see this ranger.
Moved by an impulse I could not : Sist, I rose hastily from my Sear, I ole along the hedge which Separated till I found a gate which I half
B 5 opened
i
f
opened. What was my rapture and Surprise, when I knew it to be the Same lady I came with in she coach. How lovely she appeared! What
charms her tears had lent her! She
%
was Sitting with her head leaning on her hand whjter than Snow. She had fine large black eyes, the languor pf which did not diminish their lustre; her dress, though negligent, gave her in’ my eyes more graces than if it had been the most Sumptuous in the world. In this manner was my lovely stranger a Second time offered to my view. Whaca progress did love make at that moment in my Soul, already but too much his stave!
In my first motion I was going to throw myself at her feet, but on reflection, or rather another impulse stronger than the first, I stopped. It immediately occurred to me the lady might have an attachment, which inspired
 9
Spired her with Such horror for the convent. I had therefore command enough of myself to remain undiscovered; I wished, before I revealed myself, to know the state of her heart, and on whom she had fixed her affection.
I feel all the worth of your friendship, my dear Marianne, continued ' the stranger. No, you are not my Servant, you are my friend, the only one that offers her bosom to my grief.
I am as you See, without parents, without assistance; my birth only adds to my misfortunes: why was I not born in a lower condition? The lowest have parents and friends; I am deprived of all. Your kind offers can be of no use tome; my brothers ill discover she place of my re; reat; and I shall have the additional tiissortune of having involved you also in my ruin. No, it is only I must
be
2
be unhappy, nor can I hide anything from you — Yes, I may confide it to you. My heart was Surprised this morning into Sentiments entirely new to it. Did you remark the gentleman that came in the coach with us today } eyes vvere constantly fixed on me; he Seemed to pity me.
Yes, charming stranger, cried I, hastily interrupting, and throwing myself at her feet, I do more than pity you, I love, I adore you: my life, my heart, my fortune, all is yours. I will defend you from the tyranny of your brothers — I have heard your unhappy story — Speak, dispose of me; I aspire only to the happiness of serving you; let it be the reward of the passion you have inspired me with. My appearance Surpriled, but did not frighten her: she remained Some time motionless with astonishment.
^ I re
0
\
rconst antii^. 21
I receive your offers. Sir, Says she, with all the gratitude that is due to them; but they can be of no use to me. Why should you trouble yourself about an unfortunate creature, whom destiny Seems to persecute.? My fate has already determined — Death is the only remedy I can hope for.
Death! replied I, with warmth.
No, madam, my days shall be Spent in procuring you happiness. J will go and reproach your brothers with their inhumanity : if I cannot move them in your behalf, I will, at least, place you out of the reach of their fury. Do not fear, madam, heaven Sends you an avenger in me, a faithful friend; I do not Say the most tender and passionate lover. I demand for my tenderness no other return but your confidence and esteem;
I will leave your heart at liberty.
Do not doubt a moment of my en
dea
2
deavolirs to render you happy, should I be for ever miserable. IS you will not receive as a lover one that adores you, only look on me as a friend, who takes a great concern in your welfare as yourself, and who would Save you from the danger that threatens you at the expense of his life. You weep, madam; am I the unhappy cause of your tears, who, to keep them from flowing, would shed the last drop of my blood? Speak, madam, do not hesitate to follow the advice of a person, whom one look of yours has more strongly attached to you than all the ties of nature. Be assured I shall always pay a due regard to your virtue; and shall put it out of the power of Suspicion to hurt your character. I will conduct you to Paris to one of ray aunts: you will be a daughter to her, her comfort. I repeat it again, I do not
pretend
 3
)retend that the gift of your heart hold acquit you of what you owe northeast; that shall be as you determine : inly not to hate, but to pity me, ind be happy yourself, is all I exact )f you.
This is too much answered the Iranger, you fill me with admiration ind esteem; who then could refuse you her heart with Such Sentiments? On Saying this a modest blush reddened her cheek, and heightened her beauty : her embarasshient threw me into transport.
We conversed a long time about her Samily, and the barbarity of her brothers. She told me it was in vain to hope they would change their intentions and that they were resolved to get rid of her, that they might share the fortune left her by her father. I learned also that her uncle, to aggrandise the family, had come
into
«.
24 The history or
into their views. At length we were obliged to Separate, after promising to meet tomorrow in the Same place, attended only by her waiting maid.
• I retired quite fall of my passion, entirely persuaded that love alone would render me happy for the rest of my days.
At length. Said I to myself, I am completely happy; I love; and what is the object of my love beauty, misfortune, and virtue! How many chains to bind me I My fortune is Sufficient to share with a person who gives me her heart; that is the only treasure I dessre. I can also render her happy whom I love : her misfortunes will make her love me the more, and give me a new claim to her affections. But no, I will not have gratitude mixed with love; every other Sentiment is foreign to it. All
I want is, that she love me as she
would
 5
would love the tenderest of adorers, and I Shall be Satisfied.
I hastened, or rather flew, to the place of rendezvous. How great was my rapture to find her there before me! She told me her brothers were to stay a fortnight at versailles, to regulate Some particular affairs, and then intended to bury their unhappy victim in a convent. We concerted the means of frustrating their execrable Scheme; and resolved, that (he with her maid, should take resuge at my aunt’s.
I had, nevertheless, the weakness to delay the execution of our enter prize. I wanted to act in a manner more agreeable to my love. I employed some of my friends of the first rank to propose to her brother that we would make over her fortune to him, if he would consent to our union. He heard their proposals
2
Sals with sullenness and disdain. However, the little success I met with,
'did not liiake me despair. I hoped at last to conquer his obstinacy, and theresore went to wait upon him myself.
He received me with haughtiness, although my rank was equal to his own. He told me, that it was fixed and determined by the whole Samily, his Sister should finish her days in a convent.
I was enraged, I threatened, I, Soothed, yea even begged, and shed tears. I ashed but his Sister, and offered to give up her fortune with all her pretensions: but could obtain nothing. His arrogant inhumanity kindled my indignation to Such a degree, that I was ready to challenge him. My love, nevertheless, restrained. me, I had yet Some Saint gleam of hope; and the Sister made
me
 7
northeast pass over the insults I received rom the brother.
I went to the park as usual, but bund no .body there; I waited a long ime; Some forebodings of my mis ortune began to disturb me; I rembled for her I loved; I was up m the rack of suspence, when I per eived Marianne at Some distance. A Lidden joy darted through all my eins. I expected her mistress was olio wing her *, I looked, but could lot See her; a new fear Seized me.
Marianne came up to me all in ears, and raising her hands to Heaven, Uas, Sir, Said She, my poor lady is indone; you are the cause of her uin; her cruel brother has put her inder confinement, where she is to re nain till Ihe Sets out for the convent, de has informed her of your villt, eproached her with your love, and : ven had the cruelty to dismiss me
. from
2
from attending her. All is over, added she, shedding a flood of tears, I shall never see her more. Alas, Sir, we have both lost her; and yet you ought to have preserved her: was this your promise?
despair and fury Suddenly Seized on my senses, 1 lost all utterance, my heart was filled with the horrors of Sorrow and rage, I was struck life less. At length I recovered a little : Approach, Said I to the girl, take my life, kill me, I am a monster; yes, I am the cause of this disaster, I am the wretch that has betrayed your mis tress. Shall I then See her no more.? I will punish myself: I have no other choice left.
So Saying, I drew my Sword, and was going to plunge it into my breast, when Marianne, all in tears,
'catching hold of my hand, and falling on her knees hesore me, cried,
Heavens,
/
 9
leavens, what are you about.? think, ny mistress still lives, that She loves ou, that She has no resource but you, nd that you alone can deliver her rom her distress.
Well then, replied I, with a Settled ary, I will live, I will live to tear he Soul out of that unworthy broiler; he shall die by my hand. ma ianne, do not despair, I am ready to indertake, to execute everything: ou shall See your mistress again, I fill beg her forgiveness on my knees, es, I will expiate all the crimes my oily has been the occasion of; I will bed tears to the last drop of my )lood for her, I will die or avenge ler.
At last we determined to take he opportunity when the barbarian hold be our, to fet her at liberty.
Marianne Spent the night under ler window. She came the next
morning
3
morning running and' out of breath to my room, holding a paper in her hand, which I immediately Snatched from her. What horror! the letters were written with blood. Read, says she, it is directed to you.
I well remember the contents, they will never be effaced from my mind, in which they have been so deeply imprinted by love and sorrow: : were as follow :
“It is with my blood I write to you, as my cruel brother has left me no o there means. You imagined you could Soften him by ways that would have Succeeded with any other person; but they only rendered him more obdurate. I am on the brink of the precipice So much dreaded, cto morrow he carries me to the convent, midnight is the destined hour. 1 do not know the route he will take, nor to what convent he is to convey me. I
cannot
 1
: annot doubt of your love, your iirtue is too good a Security: pity in unhappy creature, whose only lope you are, and who only loves ife on your account. I therefore ibandon myself to your care, which; hough it should prove unsuccessful, iiet be assured, that my gratitude hall not cease but with my last: breath. Do not forget me, take care Df Marianne: you know that after ou, she was the only one that Sympathised with me in my misfortunes. Farewell! 1 only wish to live to owe to you my happiness.” How did I water this dear billet with my tears! After kissing it a thousand times, ^ put it in my bosom. Here it is, next my heart. Said I to Marianne, these bloody characters shall animate this heart and rouse it to vengeance; they shall not be effaced, but in the blood of him who has treated her So cruelly.
W eep
I
3
Weep not, your mistress is free, and I we are avenged. I have thought of ah expedfent which will Succeed better than the former. Be in no concern about yoqr fortune, I will provide for you.
Alas, Sir, replied the generous girl, let us only think of my mistress;, you may easily imagine with what barbarity (he is treated. She Saw me from the window, and threw down this billet. Alas, Sir, how she is changed! but may I hope then to See her again? Yes,. continued I, you shall See her again, I will give you a letter for one of my friends, who lives at St. Dennis; you will wait for us there. I gave her the letter and
Some money.
As Soon as she was gone, I flew to Paris, and assembled Some of my friends, on whose fidelity I could rely, to whom I imparted my design. We
resolved
 3
blved to station ourselves with a st chaise, and Some trusty Servants the way that leads from versailles Paris, and there wait the arrival my dear prisoner. Never day med longer. At length night com i on, brought me nearer to that portant hour, which was to deter northeast my fate; 1 had posted my friends nveniently. Half an hour after mid yht, we. heard the noise of a coach ming towards us. We could distin ish the voices of those that yfttq in e carriage, whichl immediatelyknew be her and her brother. I flew in .ntly to the coach; Stop, Says I to 3 coachman, we neither want your e nor your purse, the Same instant )pened the door of the coach. You ly. Says I to the brother of my istress, endeavour to defend yours. Be advised, and do not bring ings to an extremity; all I want is vol. II C to
i
3
to deliver your sister from your barbarity; you can only blame yourself for the step I have been obliged to take. You refused to my entreaties what at present you are in no condition to dispute;, and you, madam, follow me, your spouse commands it.
The brother remained motionless, unable to utter one word; the Sistidr
was frightened at first, but recover iid
'■
as soon as she recollected my voice.
I put her into the poshchaise, and stepi in after her; we drove towards St. Dennis, my friends accompanied us a part of the road, and then left us. We had taken care to cut the traces of his carriage in order to prevent an immediate pursuit. It was an old Servant of mine that drove our chaise.
What a variety of emotions I felt
during this transaction! What quick
trans

/
/
 5
ransitions had my Soul gone through! rom fear, horror, and despair, I had )affect to the extreme of joy, the most ender love and certainty of my hap iinefs. At length I poffess you, di dne creature, cried I, and in you all; he riches of the universe. Forgive me for having caused you the least iueassness, I will make you forget it by all the transports of a more lively passion, and we shall now be happy. I renounce for your Sake the Society of mankind, the honour and pleasures of the world; let me only possess your heart, and I desire no more.
That heart, replied she, is but your due, it is yours, nothing could be more agreeable to me than to owe my deliverance to my lover. You love me then. Said I! Love you, answered she, can you doubt of it ^ you engaged my esteem the first moment I
C 2 beheld
/
36 The HISTORY 01
beheld yoii: generosity and virtue filch as yours need only to be known to raise the most: ardent passion. Believe that inclination rather than gratitude inspires me with these Sentiments.
What transports did Such a conses fion give me! tliese are joys of pure Sentiment fit only for Souls that Seel the force of love. I already imagined myself with this dear angel in a terrestrial paradise, abounding with delights: every feeling in my Soul caught the charms of love. Surely there is no pleasure equal to this; these are Sweets unknown to the generality of mankind: for one imprefiion they are capable of receiving, my heart is agitated by ten thousand transports.
When we arrived at St. Dennis, we alighted at my friend’s house, where Marianne waited for us with impatience. She almost fainted on Seeing us, So great was her attachment to
her
%
 7
her mistress. The count d’etre^s (which was the name of that inestimable friend) made me all the offers of Service that were in his power. I resolved to Spend Some months at his : ountry seat in order to conceal my hf, and wait the consequences of our idventure with more tranquillity, af: : his chaplain had married us pri; ^ately at his house in town.
I found myself the happiest man )n earth, possessed of all I adored, and oaded with favours by the count. She night following we Set out for he count’s Seat; how little, how nean appeared to me those pursuits hat employ the rest of mankind I my pouse was the whole universe to me.
experienced then that love is the mly passion that can fill that immense oid of the heart, which now alas is ibsorbed in grief.
C 3 My
3
My days glided on in happiness our place of retreat, which would have Seemed a desert to any other person, was the most beautiful Spot in the world to me.
My friends at Paris informed me, that my wife’s brothers made the strictest Search in order to discover the place we had retired to. We had changed our names: but, alas, the melancholy period approached that was to put an end to our happiness; for Since that fatal moment, I have dragged on life as a chain from which I wished every moment to be delivered.
One night, a dreadful niight for me, and the last I pasted with my too unfortunate spouse, I started from my Sleep, awaked by a cry that chilled me with horror. It was my wife who shrieked, frightened by a dream. lam ready to die. Said she,
all
CONST anti A. 39
all trembling, I, just now dreamed that we vvere in a magnificent 'palace, the appearance of which was height
sned by the brighteff day I ever saw. A phantom arose from the earth, the palace vanistied, and I found myself in a vault, only lightened by, a, dim lamp, by which I could perceive nothing but bones of dead persons Scattered all around me, and fragments of broken coffins. I called out to you. for help; instead of which the same phantom canie towards me, wrapped in a shroud, with a drawn Sword in his hand : die unhappy wretch, Said he, with a hollow voice, know you not who I am .>* I am death. The Same instant I looked round, and Saw no way to escape but by a dreadful Sea, through which I tried to Swim,,
This dream has lest a terrible impression on my Spirits. I know you
C 4 are
4
are to go with a party a hunting; I beg for god’s sake you will not leave me; doubtless Some evil threatens me, and 1 shall hever See you more.
As she Spoke, the tears; flowed in abundance from her eyes. I endeavoured to encourage her by my caref ses, and every argument I could think of, to persuade her that dreams were but a delusion of the imagination. Alas, I myself was not in reality more tranquil, I could not dispel my own fears, and stood in need of that comfort I endeavoured to give her, I loved my spouse too well not to enter into all her Sentiments, as we must do of those we Sincerely love.
Whether it was an excels of tenderness, or a foreboding I could not account for, I myself trembled at my wife’s dream. Nevertheless, day restored my Spirits and tranquillity, I
• blushed
y
 1
blushed at the weakness I had been iibject to, and therefore prepared : o keep my appointment with my riends.
Are you then going to abandon northeast. Said my wise in a fit of despair? Vlas, perhaps it is the last: time we hall See one another I if you loved northeast, you would stay with me; whom, lave I but you to comfort and assist northeast? Your arguments are of no reight; I cannot dispel the fears I am gitated with; I conjure you by your ffection do not leave me.
How great were my struggles! I mbraced my wife; I could not tear nyfelf from her arms; I was often eady to weep without knowing why; lor could I overcome my emotions, thought I never loved her so much, took leave of her, I returned again everal times, a Secret and invincible notion still bringing me back. Some
C 5 thing
«
4
thing within me Seemed to say. You are going to lose all you love, she will be torn from you, you will never behold her more.
However, I determined not to give, ear to these Suggestions, as I had pror mised Several gentlemen to be of their party, whom I could not disr appoint: I theresore once more embraced my wise, though still with the same agitation of mind. You distress me greatly. Said I; farewell, you shall Soon See me again. She followed me a long time with her eyes; and I often turned about to look at her. I was Surprised myself at ray weakness; at last I lost Sight of her, and from that moment never beheld her more.
The stranger could not retain his tears at this part of his narration..
On my way I was Several times tempted to return. I know forebodings are looked upon as marks of
weak
I
ft
 3
weakness; yet I have too often experienced they are the certain forerunners of Some approaching evil.’ Alas, can I doubt of it, after the blow I was then struck with! A certain melancholy hung upon me in the midst of the Sport, my blood at certain moments ran chill in my veins, I felt Such pangs’as if a Sword pierced my heart: in a word, I could not stay till the end of the chase, 1 left the company, and hastened home. The nearer I came the more my
troubles encreased * at length I arrived : that fatal moment will be always present to my memory. As Soon as I entered the house, I found the servants in tears. Struck with horror; I alked them, trembling, what was
she causeof their consternation; they
were unable to answer me: I stew upstairs, but could not find my wife; rny blood was stagnant in my veins.
I
4
I burnt with impatience to know, yet dreaded to inquire, what was become
of her: at last I made an effort to
♦ 0
\ • I
Speak, but could, only pronounce these words; O heavens, where is my wife,? Alas, Sir, replied one of the Servants, all in tears, who could Scarce articulate what he Said, she is no longer here; we have for ever lost her. He could proceed no farther, his sobs stopped the passage of his voice. She is. no more here, cried I, Seized with horror, whether then is she gone?
O'
Saying .this, I Sainted away. My Servants by their assiduity, restored me to my senses : burr, alas, it was only to drag on a life a thousand times bitterer than death itself.
They told me, that a little after my departure, a number of men, on horseback, had come to my house; that one among them, who Seemed
to
C O N b i A N T I A. 45
3 command, had with Some others one up to my wise’s apartment, ized her with her maid, and carried lem both, almost dead with fear,
) the coach, in which this gentle lan came; that the rest of the com any had remounted, and were in moment out of Sight.
Alas, cried I, my unfortunate wuse, your Sears were but too just! Why did not I listen to them? My lends Said I to the Servants, I have ►st all, make haste, and get ready my orses; perhaps I may yet overtake semi will tear her Ikdm their ands, or die in the attempt. Ye, nnatural brothers, I know it is you ave done this, but you shall both ill a Sacrifice to my just revenge; remble, ye barbarians, this shall be le last of your crimes. Let us be one, let us sty to avenge my wife, r die at her feet, Alas, I myself
am
4
am the cause of your death! Why did I not yield to your entreaties!
Why did I not believe'yous Why
■ 4
did I not believe myself!
I Set out with two Servants; I could have wished to fly on the wings of the wind, ’I did not stop till my horse dropped dead undct me with fatigue,
I then took post horses; I left continually the guide far behind me.
I ashed everywhere if they had not Seen a coach' pass, accompanied by gentlemen, but could get no intelligence. Thus I pushed on', without halting, to Paris, my Servants remaining far behind, not being able to keep. pace with me. I was quite Spent with fatigue and ’ lassitude, a violent fever began to rage in my veins, and just as 1 was entering the inn, I fell from my horse as from a precipice. twenty-four hours after I found myself lying in bed neither in a condition
to
C ON ST ANT I A. 47
0 Speak nor move; my heart alone : ontinued' its motion, but no words : an express the racking torments it mdured. A delirium immediately bllowed, I Saw my wife everywhere, he was the only object that struck ny imagination amongst all the il usions of a distempered brain. I vas getting up every moment tot ?escue her from her brothers; and it was with difficulty they could keep me in bed. T was near a fortnight in this terrible Situation; that is, between life and death: heaven, no doubt, for my punishment, drew me at last out of Such a shocking state. In proportion as ray reason and health, returned, my, heartfelt all the weight of its misery. I did not. wait till I was perfectly recovered; but as Soon as I was able to walk, I went to my wife’s brothers. One of them I understood was just dead, 1 gained
admit
4
admittance to the other under a borrowed name; but what was his Surprise, when he Saw it was me! doubtless you recollect me. Said I, what is become of your sister?? she is my wife, and restore her to me immediately. Restore her to you, replied he, in a haughty tone, what title have you to demand her of. me f I will immediately show you my title, and it is incontestable, said I, clapping my hand to my Sword, let me know this instant where she is, or
defend yourself.
He was going to call his people to his assistance. This is in vain, Said I, placing myself betwixt him and the door, which I had locked in coming in, positively one of us must die. I was quite desperate, and therefore a most formidable enemy; however weak a man is, if he fights with that
spirit, he is almost Sure to come off
with
 9
ith the advantage. I Saw fear tinted in his face: cowardice is al ays the companion of villainy. He immered out Some words I could )t understand.
You are a dead man, Said I to him; is moment shall be your last, if you) not give me an account of my fe : he fell back into his chair, al ost fainting, and endeavoured to ove me by his tears. Do you : ep you wretch, continued I? I do •t want your tears, but your blood; ?ak, answer, inform me of my fe’s fate, where is shei deserve
ath, cried he, question me no far
#
but plunge your Sword in my east, I am ready to receive the 3w; you shall find no resistance, life, become a burden to me, it will be nd to relieve me from it.
I shuddered in my turn, a Ridden rror forewarned me of the greatest
of
50 The HISTORY or
of misfortunes. Speak, said I to him, let me know the worst; is not my wife deadshe is indeed no more, replied he. Sighing deeply. Alas, she is dead then, exclaimed I, and I will follow her.
\,
I was going to abandon myself to despair; but a thirst of vengeance, which kindled anew in my Soul, recalled me to life. It was I, Said he, falling at my feet, it was I that com
/
this atrocious action : purge the world of Such a monster; strike, justice demands it.
I put the point of my Sword to his breast, and was going to pierce it. Villain, Said I, before I Sacrifice you to my just resentment, : let me know the full extent of your crime,; inform me in what manner you deprived me of my dearest spouse.
Listen then, Said he, while I reveal a crime all the torments in the
universe
 1
liverse could not expatiate, and udder with horror at hearing to hat an excess of barbarity the in tiable thirst of riches carried us: is it was that first extiilguished in our : arts all sense of nature and huma ty. My brother being informed of e place of your retreat, forced your olise from thence, and brought her » Paris, where she was Soon after slivered of a child, whom we com itted to the care of an old Servant of le family, who was less cruel than we. s Soon as we discovered his huma ty, we Sent in pursuit of him and le child : I fear the orders we gave ere but too fatally executed. One ctim was. not enough, we resolved) join the mother to the Son : we ere regardless of her tears and Sighs: le repeated your name incelsantly : e hurried her away at night in a nach; and, in fine, .when we arrived
at
5
at the destined Scene of our cruelty, we caused her to be stabbed, and her body to be thrown into the river. My brother Survived this horrid action but a few days; heaven has pet, mitted me to live till now, that I may fall by your hands. Can you hesitate one moment after Such a confeftion to drench your Sword in ray blood?
Barbarous villain. Said I, Sirahing back in a chair, and letting fall my Sword, what had yraur unhappy Sister done to provoke you to Such unheard of crueltydid we cksire anything from you.? why would not you let us live in our Solitude? You have also extended your barbarity to my child : what had the innocent babe committed to be thus Sacrificed.? 1 have lost all, cried I in rage, rising and resuming my Sword, you are the author of all my misfortunes — Yes, you shall be gratified,
you
 3
ou shall die by my hand; your lood is too little to atone for that ou have Spilled — Die.
He was still at my feet, he opened is breast, and presented it to the point
r my Sword. I fixed my eyes upon ima Sentiment of pity I was not laster of rose in my breast; the con ition that Seemed av/akened in him r his crimes, and the strong resem lance he bore his Sister, with held ly hand the very moment I was go g to strike the deadly blow.
No, Said I, I cannot take your Fe, guilty as you are; I can never led blood that is derived from the me Source with that of my dearest •ouse. Live a prey to the remorse )u so justly feelj I cannotctoo Soon j from the presence of Such a mou sr : but, alas, can I fly from the rai ries you have brought upon me? 3w great are my Sufferings!
I
5
I could not bear to look at him any longer, and lest the house with precipitation. I found myself in the street before I knew what I was doing, and, uncertain whither to direct my steps, chance conducted me to a bridge. I remained a long time looking at the river with that kind of melancholy which is the forerunner of despair. This is then. Said I, to myself, the grave of my unhappy wife; I must give over all hopes of Seeing her again. Why do I still drag on this miserable existence?
I was going to throw myself headlong into the river, when heaven had compassion on me, and brought to ray mind the dreadful consequences of Such a crime; I therefore proceeded on my way, which happened to lead to the Luxembourg. Heaven guided my steps thither; I went and presented myself at the gate of
the
 5
he carthusians, 1 unbosomed myself 0 the Superior, I told him I was letermined to renounce the world,
, nd Spend the remainder of my days, n that holy retreat. He endeavoured o comfort me all that lay in his
)ower; but strongly opposed my en * ering into a religious house, till my )resent melancholy should be some shat abated; because, Says he, we sten deceive ourselves, and imagineit s a call from heaven, when in reality t is nothing but an emotion of for ow, owing to some disappointment, ind then our taste for retreat vanishes is our grief subsides. However, all lis arguments were in vain; I per isted in my resolution, and was ad uitted to rny noviciate.
Whether Solitude only Served to iourish that Sund of melancholy which had dissfused a mortal languor )ver all my actions; or that I was
not
0
5
not So happy as to have a real inclination for that kind of life, I Soon grew tired of it.
I returned to the world, and as variety was necessary to dissipate the gloom that still hung upon my Spirits, I resolved to travel. My brother, as unhappy as I in his love, followed my example; he has been often abroad, and is at present on his return from a long voyage. I was on my way to Italy when this unfortunate accident stopped me.
Here, says the stranger, you see
with what variety of misfortunes my life has been intervoven: I hope, madam. Says he to Blanche, that the confidence I have shown will engage you to disclose who this young man is, in whom I find myself So much interested. I must repeat it, I will act as a father to him. Alas, can I do too much for
’ you
4
 7
DU, added he, embracing Octavio? es, my dear deliverer, my Son. If was So happy as to Save your life, iswered Octavio, I also owe mine to 3ur presence; Since from the moment DU arrived, I have felt my strength onderfully increase. You seem to ive me new life : for heaven’s Sake o not leave us, till I am perfectly covered: : should be happy to Dend my.life with you.
Octavio and the stranger felt for northeast another a tenderness that en reased every moment. Blanche fell ito a deep reverie; she fixed her yes Sometimes on the stranger, and Dmetimes on Octavio. Constantia ghed involuntarily. At last, Sir, lid Blanche to the stranger, as if truck with Some Sudden thought, are ou certain of the death of your child? iani have the least doubt of it, repli d he.? Heaven has deprived me of
vol. II D him
5
him, together with my dear Victoria. Heavens! exclaims Blanche what name is that you just: pronounced.? May I not alk yours also? Alas, continued he, perhaps you may have heard of the unfortunate St. Val. St. Val I says Blanche, with astonishment. Good God, cried Constantia, you are perhaps my St. val’s brother? Has he continued faithful to me? Does he still love me.? I shall then
see him again. my dear daughter,
heaven will restore us to your father. Octavio is not my brother, then, replied Julia.? Ah, my dear Octavio, we need not doubt of the matter any longer, said Blanche, you have found your father. What, is he really my Son, Said St. Val, holding him clasped in his arms? Is it my own child I owe my life to.? Yes, Sir, replied Blanche, he is undoubtedly your fon, the unhappy infant I found expiring:
Heaven
s
CONST ANTI A. 59
ft
leaven has preserved him; read, Sir, ead, and complete your happiness.
U the Same time she put Victoria le St. julette’s letter into his hand, rlis eyes were riveted thereon, till a lood of tears obstructed his Sight.
es. Says he, this is her hand; I know it well. Ah! my child, my child, I have found you — Thy unfortunate mother lives in thee. — But madam, how came this letter to fall into your hands?
She informed him in a few words,
that she had found it with Octavio in
*
the wood, together with the old man who lay dead at his fide.
Octavio was transported;; could not utter a Syllable; he made an effort to rise, and throw himself at his father’s feet. He wept for joy; he could but imperfectly utter the Sentiments of his Soul.
D 2 Madam,
6
Madam, says St. Val to Constantia, is it you my brother has loved So long, whom we must love as long as he lives, and whose death he daily bewails .?iyet heaven has still preserved your life. This young lady is no doubt your daughter? Yes, answered. Constantia, with tears in her eyes, she is my daughter, and your niece. What, is St. Val still alive, and loves me! Ah, Sir, shall 1 ever See him again Let us fly and meet him; you must present me to him. I shall be transported to behold him: he will then See his daughter, and I shall be happy in knowing he was not unfaithful.
St. Val embraced his Son, bathed
him with his tears, and accused himself of being the cause of his illness. No, Says Octavio, I have no reason to complain of my fate. I would have purchased with my blood the
happiness
/
 i
ippiness of knowing my father,; you 3w give me life a Second time. Constantia gave St. Val a relation
"her adventures. Octavio grew
%
stter every day, and they resolved) go to Paris.
Constantia longed impatiently to e her St. Val, His brother approv i of octavio’s affection for Julia;
nd he hoped easily to obtain a dif
msation * to unite them by more yreeable ties. Julia was still igno int that she owed her birth to love lone.
s
St. Val looked upon Constantia as is fister in law; and though the name ■ husband was still wanting to his rother, they hoped on their imilne iate arrival at Paris to Solemnise leir marriage. Julia and her mother
* In Roman catholic countries neither firfo : ond, or third coulins are allowed o marry ithout a dispensation.
D 3 found
K
62 The history or
found a total change in their condition. St. Val abundantly Supplied them with everything they wanted; and they used all their endeavours to persuade Blanche to accompany them: but she refused to quit her Solitude, where she entertained herself with the remembrance of her misfortunes and Don garcia’s heart. St. Val loaded her with presents; Octavio promised to regard her always as a mother; and on taking farewell, shed abundance of tears. At last they departed — St. Val was every day happier in the growing virtues of his Son. They went from blanche’s house strait to Marseilles to pay a visit to the young count d’etre^s, who resided there, Son of that worthy friend to whom St. Vafl was So much indebted, and to whom Victoria was Sending her Son, when the servant was murdered; but he being
absent,
 5
[bsent, they pursued their jour lay.
On their arrival at Lyons, they vere obliged to stay Some tirne in hat town, as Sr. Val had busmess of mportance to transact. Every day,
very hour gave the utmost: pain to Constantia; her heart was already at Paris, and stew to meet her lover, 3t. Val had received accounts of his brother being expected in a fortnight, [f he had given way to constantia’s impatience, he would have taken post directly to the place where the ship was to arrive; but his stay there was absolutely necessary.
They put up at one of the best hotels in the town, at which Several strangers of different nations were lodged, Julia, prompted by a curiosity very common in persons of her age, went through the whole house; and in her excursion h'ap
D 4 pened
6
I
pened to open the door of a room on the upper floor. She Saw an old man, who, though in distress, preserved an air of greatness: she was touched at the sight of him: she already knew the power of love; but had not had occasion to feel that of companion, which she experienced fully at that moment.
The old man held in his hand a Small portrait in a gold cafe, over which he shed a flood of tears. No, Said this illustrious stranger, it is all I have left, I will keep it to my latest breath. Ah, where are you, my daughter! were you here, I should need no other comfort; you would Supply the place of all I have lost. You would not have been so ungrateful as your unnatural brother. No, without doubt, I should have been blessed in your affection; you inherited the Sentiments as well as
beauty
/
 5
beauty of your dearest mother. Per ^ laps, alas, you have been too Sc;;
punished; and paid too dear or a few moments weakness! Shall never see you again to tell you iou are pardoned.? It is for you I im ready to expire in misery, re iuced by my own Son to this melancholy situation, a stranger, and de erted in this place, without friends ind assistance, loaded with Sickness ind contempt. Heavens! how severe.. my Ipt! I Scarce know my elf in this horror that Surrounds me.
ain image, portrait of a daughter 00 much cherished, received these ears. Alas, I think I See her still.
Mo, I cannot resolve to deprive my
elf of the only t red Sure S have left;
will not redeem a few Sremaining lays at Such a I will rather die.
am approaching towards my end.
D Lord, it is no doubt for the trial of
L 5 my
6
my patience, you permit whatever has befallen me; I adore your chastising hand; I Submit to your will; O God dispose of me as you think fit.
Julia held the door So that the stranger could not perceive her; every complaint he uttered pierced her heart, which already possessed all the fensibility of her mother’s. She was going to enter, but she feared that the sight of her, instead of being a comfort to the old' man, might occasion him liiuch eonfufiou; for Julia had already a delicacy of Sentiment known only to few.
She therefore Softly shut the door, and returned to her own apartment: the Scene she had been witness to, threw her into a profound reverie. She resolved after dinner to go back again to the stranger; but Some company calling upon St. Val, de taiaed her she greatest part of the
day;
»
0
 7
day; and at last she was obliged to go to bed without finding an opportunity to put her design into execution.
julia’s imagination was too full of what she had Seen to be able to take any rest. The image of the old gentleman’s deplorable Situation recurred continually to her mind.' She could think of no means to relieve bim, as she plainly Saw money was necessary; and she had .very little to bestow. She theresore could not gratify her inclination to assist him, and found she
bad nothing but barren pity to bestow /
upon him.;
Ah!' how hfi'has affected me, cried be, his. Sighs, his complaints still pierce my ears. O heavens! why must :
there be unhappy people in the world! How much has this; unfortunate object moved me! I would willingly
assist
*
6
assist them all; how dear a few moments has rendered him to me! Has he then no other children to assist him but those he mentioned? What! his own Son reduced him to this mile ry? Ah, what a strange monster, must he be! Of what is his heart formed? Mine already melts at his woes. Why is he not my father? Why am not I this daughter whose loss he laments, and whom he loves So much? Alas, he is himself compassionate, he excuses the errors of love; for no doubt that must be the weakness into which his daughter has fallen, as other faults are not So easily pardoned. His necessity must be very great Since he is reduced to Sell that dear portrait; and yet he cannot re solve to part with it. He must die, then, unhappy man. — Ah, why have I Seen him, Since I can give him no
manner of relief! How I Suffer for
him?
CONS T A N T I A. 69
him? The Scene I have this day beheld will remain engraven in my imagination as long as I live; I can never forget it — Should I desire money of my mother, would she resuse it? But no, I have thought of another expedient, which cannot fail. I have a ring rny uncle made me a present of, I will dispose of it; and if I find a purchaser, no matter whether I obtain the full value. Provided I get only a part, I shall be able to assist a person in distress, who has given over all hopes; and should I be Sortunate enough to relieve him, it will be the greatest of all earthly
pleasures.
But Sooner or later my mother will discover the loss of my ring. What then? ■ — If at the worst I am chid,
I shall have the Satisfaction of having obeyed the dictates of compassion; and can my mother punish me
for
ft
yo T H s H I S T O R Y o F
for Such an action? who would' not act as I do.? Yes, venerable old man,
I will ease your afhiction, and dry up your tears.
Julia rose in the morning entirely occupied with her plan, which she would have communicated to Octa ^ w ho was not to be found, a friend of his father’s having carried him for Some days to his country Seat not far from Lyons.
As Soon as breaksast was over, Julia began to put her Scheme into execution. She applied to one of the waiters of the inn to difpose of her ring privately. The fellowtee ing it would be an ealy purchase, advanced the money himself, giving her a hundred crowns. Youth and inexperience, joined to an ardent desire of relieving the miserable stranger, made her fancy herself possessed
of
CONSTANTSA. 71
ds an immense treasure. She flew mmediately in a transport of joy to ay them at the feet of the old man; ut in approaching the room she leard a voice Somewhat louder than irdinary, which immediately stopped ier, .in order to listen to the Subject of heir discourse.
It is in vain to argue, said’.a man within, I must have money; I am jot to be put off with idle talk: if roll arc poor and know not how to jrocure a livelihood you should beg harity of the gentry; as for me, I im not rich enough to keep you here tny longer for nothing. Well, an wered the dying voice, do not oj> )ress me I am already but too un lappy, you will not lose much by northeast. I would rather die of want; lave patience only a few days, and roll shall be Satisfied for all I owe ou. If you knew whom you were
Speaking
72 The HISTORY or
Speaking to, you would not use me thus cruelly. What the duce! replied the other, though you were a prince of the blood, I believe it is everywhere held to be just to demand one’s own; your quality will not provide, me with a dinner; nor can I pay my landlord with old parchments. People like me, look you, master, know no other gentry but money. Pray what picture is that you have got there? What do you intend to do with it? O my conscience! the cafe is gold. Ay, faith, let me even take it, for what you owe me: a bird in hand is better than two in
»
the bush.
Upon which immediately Seizing the portrait, the old gentleman Sighed deeply. Julia was bathed in tears, she was shocked to death at Such barbarity ^ and as she Sound it was the. landlord who was abusing the stranger,
 3
cr, she waited with impatience till he left the room, that she might pay him his bill, and oblige him to return the portrait, without letting the stranger know to whom he was indebted.
For heaven’s Sake, cried the old
man, give me back the portrait, or take riiy life with it; do not rob me ds the only consolation I have still remaining. Alas, what must I Suffer before I die! Here, added he, weeping bitterly, strip me of everything rather than deprive me of my daughter’s picture. I have but a few days to exist, you will Soon be master of it by my death. Your death! answered the fellow, do not think you are to remain here till then; nr that I shall lie out of my money, VI ' till you die. What does the man think of his clothes they would not defray the charge of his burial. I shall lose all patience; either take
your
1
0
74 The HISTORY or
yourself away, to die Somewhere elfe, or I shall have you removed hence tonight. Whither? interrupted the old gentleman. To a place, replied the other, proper for Such gentry, to. the hospital. — To the hospital! daidi the old man, melting into tears; Alas, my friend, have patience .but for a few moments; and I! will.trouble you no more.
No,. Sir,, cried Julia, abruptly en tcting the room, you shall not go to theshospital; Here, Says she to the landlord throwing her purse on the floor, take what he owes you, you sordid wretch, and give me that picture; and without waiting for an answer she hastily Snatched it from him. Look, Sir, here is your picture, he dare not wrest it from yfou again. Heaven sends you a friend in me, whose heart bleeds for your misfortunes,. who will give you all the
assistance
 5
assistance in her power. Do not scruple to let me share your Sorrows; though I am young, yet I know how to pity, respect, and love Such, persons as you in affliction. Let not the sight of me make you uneasy, I am already interested in whatever concerns you, and I share your griefs. The old man beheld Julia with Surprise, and clasping her to his bosom, held her there locked for Some time with transports of grief and tenderness, bathing her with his tears. Ah, madam, Said he at last, with a voice almost stifled with sighs, my ever dear benefactress, what returns shall I be able to make for Such goodness? My life Spent in your Service, had I yet a number of years to come, would not be Sufficient to repay what I owe you. But who are you? Certainly some gracious angel heaven has Sent to comfort me, for Such Sentiments
ft
4
\
76 The history or
timents are not to be found on earth. Yet, madam, though I have the liveliest sense of your favours, I cannot accept them, but on condition you will receive this portrait as a pledge of my gratitude.
Julia did not allow him time to finish his Speech. What, Sir! Said she, interrupting him with a certain haughtiness that indicates a generous mind, is this then your gratitude?, are you obstinately bent in refusing the little Service I now offer you? can you shppose me actuated by Such. low Sentiments? Keep, Sir! keep your portrait, and know me better, Alas, I shall be Sufficiently repaid if you do me justice. You hurt me much by this usage, added she, looking atshim tenderly, and redoubling her tears; I would endeavour to
make you easy at the hazard of ray life.
I
 7
t
I was in the wrong, madam, an sred the stranger, struck with asto hment, I acknowledge it. Well; n, I consent to owe you every ng, and even Seel a pleasure in be y obliged to you for So many fa tirs : pardon my error. I esteem LI infinitely, continued he, embra ig her, I respect and love you as I luld virtue itself: be assured I shall
•4
ver abiise your goodness. I hope n to be able to repay your obliga
n;; my gratitude shall be eter 1. The old man on uttering these >rds looked at Julia and the por, it alternately, as if he Sought to d a resemblance between them,; lich agitated him so much, that he uained a long time Silent.
Alas, says the stranger, the more : xamine your features, madam, the eater is the resemblance I find be een you and the daughter I have
long
7
long lost:. May I not therefore know the person to whom I owe So many obligations.?
My sather’s name, replied she, is St. Val, we are going to meet him at Paris with my uncle and his Son.; we are to remain in this town only a few days. What! interrupted the old man, must I lose you again So Soon? Do not leave me, I beg you, in this house; stay till my death, I am already very near my end, that I may have the Satisfaction of having my eyes closed by your hands. You will not then refuse this portrait, which I beg you to preserve as a memorial of my gratitude. To whom can I bequeath it better than to you, who resembles it So much? You pos sess all my daughter’s virtues; may you never experience her weakness, and be happy.
No,
 9
No, Sir, Said Julia, clasping his nds in hers, you must not die, we nnot part with you. As to your un ppy daughter, heaven perhaps will store her to your arms. That hope long lost. Said the stranger; all I, veto do in this world is to pre re to leave it. Saying this, he lanced to cast his eyes on the purse hich the landlord had left von the : d, after ne^imburssng himself, and Diild have forced Julia to take it jain. Whaf! .Said she, will you Fer me a new outrage.? you ought I think better of me: keep this isse, you may want it; and when 1 your power to repay me, I will ike if. She added this to induce im to accept the money; upon hich she took a turn through the )om, and found in the window a less of Soup, that Seemed to have
'stood
}
t
8
stood Several days, the Sight of which gave her fresh pain.
The old gentleman’s present weak ness was less owing to fickness than want of proper nourishment. Sir, Says she, I must take you under my care, I will Send you a physician, and you shall be removed immediately into another room: at present it is
ft
necessary that I leave you for a short time.
The stranger, interrupting his benefactress, exclaimed, Alas, do not leave me; the sight of you restores me to life, and calms my grief; I can never behold and admire you enough.
I will return immediately, replied Julia; but at present I must go to my mother. Your mother! resumed the stranger; what is she in this housei hope you will procure me the happiness of feeing her; your
mother
9
 i
nother undoubtedly is no less chari
able than the daughter; she will not leny me this favour. I do not know /hy I So earnestly long to See her; Hit add this Service to the rest you ave done me; you are formed to blige. Will you prevail upon her 0 come and See me? I should ot dessre this favour were 1 able 0 leave my bed: but I have not stength to go to her: my misfor lines have hastened the infirmities of lid age, and I feel I draw near my nd.
ia promised to gratify his re
[uest; but she left him with re jctance. She went to the door, nd instantly returned to the bed ide; she found he became dearer to ler every moment. At last she went iith a resolution to return as Soon as
»ossible.
vol. II E The
8
The stranger was no less uneasy on his part; the resemblance he imagined he found betwixt her and his daughter, gave him great emotion. Sometimes he flattered himself with pleasing hopes; but the moment after they vanished, and his mind was racked with most cruel uncertainty,
Julia was also much embarrassed;; wanted to inform her mother, but feared her anger on account of her ring; she therefore resolved to discover the whole to her uncle, and beg Some money of him to finish
I
what she had So happily begun.
The respect children have for those to whom they owe their birth, approaches to constraint, and constraint banishes confidence.
Constantia no Sooner Saw Julia enter the room than she ashed her with an air of Severity, what she had done with her ring?
The
C
 3
The man who bought it, being ifraid it would be inquired after, had ■estored it to her mother for the mo lay he had given for it.
Julia Seemed at a loss, hesitating bme time for an answer; but her nother, to show her that evasions vere useless, produced the ring, and : hid her for her extravagance.
Dear mother, Said Julia, vouch afe but to hear me, and I flatter nyself you will approve all I have lone; nay, even lend me your aflift ince. I will not conceal from you hat I presumed to dispose of my ing; you know it already: but do lot think I should have parted with ny uncle’s present to Satisfy any bolish expense; you can not sus )ect me of Such an action; my con iuct hitherto Sufficiently clears me torn imprudence; and the motive or Selling it must deserve your praise.
E 2 Yesterday,
8
Yesterday, rambling through this house, I stopped at the door of one of the rooms. Curiosity prompted me to look in i and I perceived a poor old man, who struck me with an emotion I could not account for. The place he lay in, the furniture, and everything about him indicated the greatest misery: but amidst all his poverty, he had something So grand. So noble in his countenance, as interested me in his behalf the moment I beheld him. these Sentiments encreased when I heard his complaints, keeping his eyes fixed on a portrait, which he watered with his tears. It was the portrait of an unfortunate daughter; and he complained of an unnatural Son, who had stripped him of everything, and even expelled him his own house, on account of that very daughter whom he Seems to love So tenderly, and
whom
 5
whom. he has So long lost. He Said le would pardon her, if ever he found ler again; for he mentioned Some veaknesses of this beloved child, which I imagined could be only those stove. I learned, by the Sequel of lis complaints, that Jie was reduced o the utmost necessity; but that he : hose rather to die than part with his portrait. — You weep, madam : ih! you also are touched with this )oor man’s misfortunes; yet this is lot all, your heart will bleed for lim, when you know the rest. Go n my child, Said Constantia, letting ler tears flow freely, which she had litherto strove to conceal; what hen is become of this old man for whom I already feel So much.?
I retired without his having per: eived me, continued Julia, though vith reluctance; but I was afraid he sight of a stranger might add
E 3 to
86 The HISTORY OP
to his distress. My thoughts were wholly employed on the means of giving him Some assistance; and the only method' that occurred to me, was the disposing of my ring, which was the Sole motive that induced me to part with it. No Sooner was I in possession of the money I got for it, than I flew to the old gentleman’s room. You cannot imagine what a new shock I received : there must be Some very barbarous people in the world; I heard a person Speak in a loud and insolent manner, and discovered him to be the landlord, who loaded the poor old man with reproaches, and was clamorous for payment. The stranger promised to Satisfy him in a few days; but the other persisted in his brutal outrages, and at length carried his inhumanity So far as to tear that very
picture
 7
picture from the old man, Saying he would detain it for what, he owed lim. The unfortunate gentleman offered him; everything else he had, and begged only, as hehadbut a Sew days more to live, to be. allowed to keep his portrait, the only thing he lad left on earth that he valued. The mercenary wretch was not in the least touched with this moving entreaty : le barbaroussy replied, that all he had would not suffice to pay the sxpences of his funeral At last, dear mother I know it will make you shudder with horror; the fellow threatened the poor old man, who Seemed to have Scarce a day to live, ind who undoubtedly is of noblo birth, he threatened, I Say, to have bim carried — whither? can you believe it? To a place yet more hocking than where he is — to an iiospital. To an hospital! cried
E 4 Con
8
Constantia. Yes, to an hospital! replied Julia. And was he carried thither, ashed her mother with impatience? Let us go, my daughter, Said Constantia, rising, I will have him brought back immediately; he shall have my apartment. Your account of this poor old man moves me exceedingly.
Stop, stop, madam, said Julia to Constantia, he is not gone to the hospital, he is still in this house; and when you See him, you will be as much concerned at his fate as I
am.
At this horrid insult, continued she, resuming the thread of her story, I rushed into the room : no, Sir, cried I, you shall not go to the hospital; at the Same time I threvr my purse to the landlord, and Snatching the portrait from him, returned it to its owner. I never before experienced
 9
enced Such emotions: the longer my eyes dwelled upon him, the more my heart was moved. He would have forced me to accept of the portrait, in pledge of what I had paid for him. I was offended at his proposal, and obliged him to keep it, which he would by no means agree to, except on condition that I should at least receive it at his death..
He examined me with attention, ’ and at last he imagined he traced a likeness of his daughter’s features in mine — You Seem? discomposed, ma -- dam — He ashed me who I was; and I told him you lodged at present in this very house. His concern encreased, he begged > me to procure him the favour of a. visit from you : you must go and See him, madam,
I promised it; you will be moved at his condition, and Surely you will relieve him.
E 5 I hope
4
g
I hope you do not condemn the part I have acted; for you would certainly have done the Same had you been in my Situation — But I hope you
are not ill, madam : you look pale, you Seem ready to saint; mother, my dear mother, are you any way indisposed??
is nothing, daughter. Says Constantia, heaving a deep Sigh; I must See the old gentleman, he shall be satisfied without delay. — Good heavens, can it be possible! What Secret foreboding is it that agitates my heart! Conduct me to him — Lend me your arm, I am not able to walk.
Julia Supported her mother, who, all trembling and pale, with difficulty walked upstairs, and at last reached the door of the old gentleman’s apartment. Constantia, shuddering,
entered the room, led by her daughter.
t
 1
ter, her eyes almost blinded with tears. As they approached the bed, Sir, Said Julia to the stranger, my mother is come, as I promised; she is already touched with your misfortunes, though a .stranger to your person. It was towards evening, and the room was rather dark; So that she could not distinctly See the Sick person. Constantia Sat down near the bed, she looked towards him; but the darkness of the place, and perhaps her own inquietude, hindered her from distinguishing objects with precisson.
The stranger bowed Ter Constantia' as he Sat up in bed, and made a moi

tion to rise. Do not move. Sir, Said she, I beg you will not disturb yourself. This was all she could utter. Madam, I hope, Said he, you will excuse me for receiving you in this manner; but my present weakness is
the
g
the cause : I am approaching the goal to which all mankind must arrive at last : perhaps, madam, it is presuming too much on your good ness to alk this favour; but as the young lady your daughter has doubtless derived her Sentiments from you, the unhappy are always Sure of your compassion; and you will, I hope, excuse the freedom I have taken. My desire of Seeing you was ib strong, that I could not resist it. How happy are you, madam, in a daughter! What an angel she is! Upon which the stranger wiped his eyes, which he bad all this while turned towards Constantia, though lie could not See her distinctly. Sir, Said she, I am at present as happy as 1 can reasonably expect to be, after the innumerable misfortunes I have undergone, and the danger of new
ones not wholly pash What! madam,
 3
dam, replied the stranger, do you also Seel missortune by your own experience Alas, Sir, continued she, it has been my companion almost from my youth : my unhappy fate took me away from my father, which was the commencement of my mis fortunes; I Soon after lost all I loved,
1 have no consolation now remaining but my daughter. But, Sir, I am informed you had also a daughter, whom you tenderly loved, and whose loss you still regret. Yes, madam, replied he, it has born hard upon me for many years, and it will now Soon bring me to my. grave. It is this daughter whom I So much regret that is the cause of the unhappy Situation you See me in. She is much to be pitied, replied Constantia, if she is the cause of so much affliction to so indulgent a parent as you Seem to be. Alas, it is not voluntary in her.
Said
I
0
9
Said the stranger -, I must do her more
justice. I can only accuse a fatal passion, which has made her Swerve from her duty; perhaps she has already too dearly paid for her offence. If ever she is restored to me again, she will easily find forgiveness. Her unnatural brother has stripped me of everything, under pretence of dotage,. because I would, not deprive his unhappy Sister of her portion. The hope of finding her again would not allow me to cutler Oss^ before I
knew in what situation she was.
What Sighs escape you, madam! perhaps you know Something of this unhappy daughter. You Say love was the cause of your leaving your father’s house! — Ah were it possible! Madam, behold this picture.
Constantia ordered Julia to bring a lighr.
The
 5
The more I hear you. Sir, said she, the more my soul is torn and agitated. Alas, if ever I See my father again, may he be as ready to forget as you, yes, too true, I have offended this tender parent; I forgot my duty, and have been Severely punished for it Since.
O most certainly he would pardon you, replied the old gentleman; a father’s heart could not resist your tears. For heaven’s sake, madam, relieve my suspense, what country gave you birth? Italy, Said Constantia with a faltering voice. Italy I O God, cried the old man,, and what city there.? Rome, repliedconstantia.hastir ly. Rome! exclaimed the stranger, I can Scarce breathe. Then, madam, you know the marquis of Sp — a Know him! added she, re doubling her tears, he is — —
Duririg
9
During this interesting discourse, Julia entered with a light, and Constantia at. last got a full view of the stranger, when she fainted in his arms, crying my Sather. — My daughter was all the unfortunate marquis could utter, for it was really him.
What, my dear father! Said Constantia, recovering and bathing him with her tears, is it you I find in Such an abject condition! Alas, Said she to Julia, come and' fall at my father’s feet, and obtain forgiveness for your unhappy mother: I cannot outlive this Scene.
Constantia was ready to saint; she and her daughter had thrown themselves at the marquis’s feet, who tenderly raised and pressed them to his bosom. My dear child, are you at last restored to me again! do I indeed behold you! — My joy is too
great for my present weak condition;
look
 7
look up, Julia, and behold the ten derest of fathers. You pardon me then, replied Constantia, you still love me, and will vouchsafe to cast your eyes on your too guilty daughter. Alas, my father, it is really you! In what a horrible Situation do I find you! almost ready to die in misery; and had it not been for my daughter, I had lost you again: I shbuld never have Seen you rnore; whilst I alone was the cause of your death.
You have restored me to life, replied the marquis, let us Speak no more of my misfortunes: in finding you, they are all forgotten. Yes, it was your daughter, that generous girl So worthy of you, added he embracing Julia, who recalled me to life; she possesses your Sentiments and your virtues. But where is your husband, that I may embrace him
also?
The HISTORY op
also.? This question discomposed Constantia, a deep crimson overspread her face; and a new stood of tears issuing down her cheeks, she threw herself the marquis’s feet.
My dearest father, says she, I love and honour you too much to deceive you. Hear other misfortunes of which my own daughter is still ignorant, and let my example make her dread the Snares of love: into what an abyss has it plunged me! Well then you shall know all; but I hope you will not erase me from your affections, when I inform you — that I am not married.
Not married! cried the marquis, with grief and despair painted in his face : not married! and what are you then? O heavens, what do I hear, cried Julia, with a loud shriek! I have then no Sather, I am an outcast to the world;.
Hear
/
 9
Hear me, my father, hear me, my
daughter, replied Constantia, I am less criminal than you imagine; I
shall claim your pity, and my honour will be Soon repaired.
She 'gave her father a sincere account of her adventures, which drew from him many tears in hearing the extremities to which she had been reduced at Marseilles, and the unhappy accident that had Separated her from St. Val, when they were on the point of being united for ever. She finished her recital by telling her father, that she was going to Paris to meet her lover, who would be the first to hasten their nuptials.
The marquis appeared Satisfied with this eclairciffement. As to Julia, she could Scarce Sustain the shock this relation had given her; though young, she was not ignorant of the shame and ignominy, the injustice
10
justice and folly which men had entailed upon thosechildren whose birth wants the Sanction of the laws.
The marquis, in his turn, acquainted his daughter with all the afflictions he had undergone. The Son he had in the army was killed in a duel: the other, though of rank in the church, did not act up to that Sacred character; for, finding.he could not persuade his father to Settle histister’s fortune on him, he had the barbarity to deprive the old marquis of the management of his estate, under pretence of dotage; and had taken poffeshon of all that belonged to him. The marquis penetrated with grief, and left without resource, maltreated by his unnatural Son, lest Italy with a design to go to Paris to a relation of his deceased wise’s, and had been taken ill at Lyons, where his money was exhausted. He had
writ
CONSTANTIA. loi
writ to this friend to remit him a Supply, which he was in daily expectation of, when the innkeeper used him So cruelly.
Octavio Soon returned from his visit in the country; and as he was as ignorant as Julia of the mystery of her birth, how great was the'surprize both of the father and Son, when Constantia presented the marquis to them! They embraced him with tenderness, and it was Soon agreed he should accompany them to Paris; and from that moment each strove who should most contribute to make him forget his misfortunes.
Octavio observing an air of melancholy in Julia, which he had not perceived before his departure, took the first opportunity of Speaking to her alone : what is it. Said he, that makes you So Sad, my divine Julia, at a time you should give yourself
wholly
102 The history op
wholly up to joy Have you any secrets
you can conceal from me? You do not love me!
Not love you! replied Julia, with tenderness: then I must cease to live. But, continued Octavio, whence comes it that these tears steal down your cheek, which you endeavour in vain to conceal from me? Ah! di vine Julia, if you loved me, you would undoubtedly make me a partner in your grief, it would be lessened by sharing it with me; or do you doubt my Senssbility Speak, conceal nothing from me; I conjure you by our mutual tenderness, by everything that is dear, by everything that is Sacred, by your dearest Self, tell me the cause of that trouble with which you are agitated. You cry, ' have you then resolved to kill me? Your tears pierce my very Soul.
Alas,
♦
 03
Alas, what is it you require of me, answered Julia! Ah Octavio, Octavio, you must forget me, I am no longer worthy of your affection.
No longer worthy of me, replied he! you who deserve the adorations of the universe! How can I ever cease to love you? A thousand reasons forbid me to indulge that hope, continued she; Sat has put insurmountable bars betwixt us, I was not formed to be so happy as to be yours.
I entreat you again not to inquire whence my tears flow, only be assured that I have too much cause of grief. Allow me to keep the fatal Secret in my own bosom, which, if known to you, would make me the object of your contempt; and that I could never Survive. Provided you still love me, resumed Octavio, what crime can you commit? I know no other but infidelity. Your heart is not
changed
10
changed! Speak without fear, my love is unalterable. Well then, Since you insist upon it, continued Julia,
the tears trembling in her lovely eyes, you shall be satisfied, however hard the task may be; but remember, you yourself imposed it. Hear, Octavio, hear the new afflictions I am reserved for, life is a disgrace to me, my shame commenced from my very birth, I have no rank in the world, I have none to own me, I have no father.
You have no Sather 1 cried Octavio, struck with astonishment, what is then my uncle? Love alone, answered Julia, whom her Sobs almost choked, united him to my mother; he is not her husband, and 1 am the fruit of their unhappy love : an outcast from ray very birth, added she, covering her face with her hand, and weejping bitterly. An out cast! cried
Octavio,
 05
Dctavio, throwing himself at her eet, and seizing her hands, which le eagerly kissed; ah my dear ju ia, was this the cause of your vio snt affliction? You are still the Same
0 me, love allows no distinctions, ou have Something in my eyes su >erior to all the titles, all the digni ies of the universe. And will you, aid Julia, with a lovely tenderness,
1 Spite of this fresh misfortune, still >ve meyes, replied Octavio, I ill love you, I will adore you all ay life. I now Swear it at your feet, F ever I become perjured one Single loraent, renounce and detest me for ver. Well then. Since you love, ae, resumed Julia, my griefs vanish;
do not desire riches, quality, or irth, everything is included in the ossession of your heart. Lay aside our causeless fears, concluded he, e will immediately Set out for Paris,
vol. II F my.
i
my uncle still adores your mother, and he will Soon put an end to her afflictions.
Here they were interrupted by St. Val and the old marquis, who bid them prepare instantly for their journey : at the same time Octavio received a letter from Blanche, wherein she renewed the assurances of her tenderness and affection, and next day they left Lyons.
Constantia was the most impatient of the company to reach Paris, where they at length, after a pleasant journey, arrived in Safety. The marquis, with his daughter and Julia, lodged at St. val’s, who Soon Separated Octavio from his mistress. He thought them too young to marry, and therefore proposed his Son should first See Something of the world by entering into the army, and serving a campaign. The fatal
moment
 07
moment of this Separation arrived too Soon for the tender heart of Julia.
Farewell, then, cried she, my dear Octavio! perhaps this is the last time, I shall ever see you, to tell you I love you! Ah fatal thirst of Same, how many pangs you will cost me! Is not love Sufficient to render you happy, why does ambition tear you from my arms? Adieu, Octavio! remember you leave a Paris a heart which beats but for you.
She could proceed no farther. Sighs opposed the passage of her voice; she looked at her lover, and her tears redoubled. Octavio was at her feet, and grasped her hand with ecstasy.
I must leave you, cried he, thou gh [ only wish to live to behold you igain; I have hitherto only lived to love you. You are my better half, my soul’s far dearer part, and yet we
F 2 must
t
4
i
must Separate. What must I live days, weeks, and months without Seeing my dear Julia I Farewell, my love, farewell! do not be.anxious for my life heaven will certainly preserve it, and conduct me to you again, that we may be united never to part.
Alas, answered Julia, Lathed in tears, what am I yet to Suffer ^ How I tremble at the danger you will be exposed to! May heaven never let
me feel the loss of So .dear a lover!
/
Perhaps you was only restored .to me, that I should Suffer greater torments in losing you again! Are you then going to leave m Octavio, will you abandon me?
No, replied he, I cannot leave you,
I cannot See you weep; live for a lover who adores you; live to lament my loss, if death should Snatch me from you.
O
 09
O God, cried Julia, what a frightful image do you present to me! You stab me to the heart: No, you shall not go, 1 will throw myself at your father’s feet, water them with my tears, lay before him all my distress;
he is not cruel, he is not inexorable, he will have pity on me, he will restore me my only copsolation, my dear Octavio.
Julia became here quite transported with grief; she traversed the room in disorder; at last she threw herself into a chair, and melted into tears.
Ah divine Julia, replied Octavio, it is in vain, we must part: my father, my duty will have it So: I must endeavour to be worthy of yon.
What cruel delusion, cried Julia, misleads your fancy! You have already all my love, you can acquire nothing that can add to it. That glory you thirst So much after only
F 3 makes
9
Jio Thi HISTORY OP
* 1
makes me miserable. My greatest happiness is being continually with you. Ah Octavio, Octavio, you do not feel the pangs of love!
Does my Julia accuse me, replied he, of insensibility? Ah, whoever felt the power of love more than I! I have adored you from my infancy; the first Sigh I ever breathed was for you. Every day of my life has been marked with tenderness, and all my actions have flowed from the Same
Source. — You are Silent! Speak, regulate, decide, direct my future course of life, my every action : but you cannot desire my dishonour! Well then, continued Julia, looking mournfully at him, let us part, go, fly in pursuit of that chimaera, fame: I shall never be shocked with the accounts of your death; for I feel I shall not long Survive your absence.
Octavio
CONSTANTIA. in
Octavio was almost distracted, he gazed at his mistress with looks of inexpressible anguish, never did a heart endure more racking torments, he clasped his bands, and lifted them to heaven : he advanced towards the door, but returned immediately to
A.
throw himself at julia’s feet. One of his father’s Servants came to tell him everything was ready, and that he waited for him in the court.
I will follow you, cried he, struck with new despair. — Well then, my dear Julia, have you anything more to add? You See my father press me; do not embitter the last moment I have to See you. — Farewell, farewell, my dear Octavio, Said she, giving her hand, shall I never See you again! — These were the only words she was able to pronounce, while Octavio pressed her to his breast. He retiring unable to articulate a Single
F 4 word,
11
\
word, she called him back: Once more farewell, Said she to him. Why, Octavio, must I lose you.? Farewell, farewell, adorable creature! replied he; take care of your health, and remember my life depends upon yours.
At this last effort, he turned and
went out with precipitation. What
%
are you going then, cried Julia, you abandon me! I cannot part with you, this moment is perhaps the last of my life.
She started from her Seat, Scarce knowing what she did, and flew after Octavio. O heavens, cried he in a traniport of grief, do you want to See me expire. Let me behold you yet a few moments, answered Julia; I have a thousand things to say to you : but go. Since it must be So, I will not detain you longer, I
will
^ CONSTANTIA 113
will only see yoii depart; but remember whom you leave behind.
St. Val called Octavio : constan tia and the marquis were present. The father endeavoured to assume an air of tranquillity, though he himself was much moved at their Separation. Farewell, my child, Said St. Val, farewell! continue to preserve the Sentiments of virtue you have hitherto shown, pursue the steps you have hitherto walked in, and you will Satisfy my utmost wish. Adieu! I cannot give you a greater proof of my affection than preferring your interest to the pleasure of having you with me. Let us hear from you as osten as possible.
Octavio remained Some time in his father’s arms without being able to Speak, At last Julia and her lover embraced one another in Silence not able to utter a Syllable, as what
F 5 they
I
they felt was too big for exprcs sion.
At last he stepped into his chaise, which immediately drove off; Julia
gave a shriek, and fainted into her mother’s arms.
They Soon heard from Octavio, and he continued to write to his Julia almost every posh His letters she moistened with her tears; and entertained herself with them as the representative of her dear Octavio. How ingenious is love in forming to itself pleasure and pain! The happi ness and Sorrows of lovers are without bounds; for there is no felicity nor torment comparable to theirs.
Constantia experienced this cruel uncertainty no less than her daughter, which may be styled the rack of love. They had no news of the absent St. Val; though according to the last accpuntsjhe should have been already
arrived.
 15
arrived. Constantia, who died with dessre to See him again, resolved to take Julia with her to the port where he was expected to land. She wanted, if possible, to be the first object that should Salute his eyes.
What flattering ideas did she entertain in her mind! She figured to herself this dear object of all her tenderness, transported with joy in finding her
alive, and receiving his lovely daughter from her hands, hastening to com pleat his felicity by their nuptials.
Enchanting error, flattering dream, thou wilt vanish too soon! Ah unhappy Constantia, thy misfortunes are not yet at an end! those Sorrows that still avail thee, far surpass those thou hast already gone through.
A few days after St. Val Seemed more melancholy than usual. Constantia would often catch his eyes fixed on her, while the tears Seemed
ready
i
ready to fall, which he endeavoured to conceal.
What can detain your brother So long. Said Constantia? Alas, if he knew that I were still alive, and that I have never ceased to love hin, he would certainly make quicker dis patch. What, Sir, have you had no letter from him? None at all, answered St. Val, fetching a deep Sigh, ray brother’s Silence plunges me into a mortal inquietude. Fate is So cruel to us, and our hopes have been So often deceived, that there is nothing certain in life; it is but a web, a chain of grief and disappointment.
Pronouncing these words, he looked at Constantia with an air of a person whose mind Seems labouring under some great oppression.
You look at me, Said she, with a Sort of compassion that makes me tremblci Your eyes Seem ready to
overflow
*
 17
overflow with tears. I shudder at the apprehension of what it may be — is your brother taken ill.? What other accident could detain him So long from us.? — We must always prepare against the worst, answered St. Val, and remember, my dear lister, we should always Submit to Providence. Speak, Speak, resumed Constantia, hastily interrupting him, for heaven’s Sake, Sir, explain your self, and ease my fears.
Alas, your fears are but too just, cried St. Val, lifting his eyes to heaven. I shall expire, cried she, relieve me from this suspence. — What! your tears are redoubling; grief has stopped your utterance. Am I reserved for the greatest of misfortunes } Ah, for pity’s Sake, remove my doubts, and let me know the worst; inform me of your brother’s fate; does he not love me any
longer?
#
r
11
longer.? Could he ever have ceased to love you, replied St. Val, he could have Sooner ceased to live. What do you say? replied Constantia with eagerness. Hide nothing from me, I conjure you. O Heaven, I dare not think on it | have I lost all that is dear to me? Well then, answered he, learn a missortune which it is needless to conceal any longer: my brother — go on, Sir, Says Constantia, shuddering with horror — is
dangeroussy ill, continued St. Val. Is ill, cried she! Perhaps is no more! You only answer me with your
Sighs.
St. Val gave her a letter with a trembling hand. She no shoner threw her eyes on the fatal paper, than she cried out, He is dead, and fainted away.
Alarmed by her cries, the marquis came into the room with Julia.
They
 19
They were struck with the melancholy objects that presented to their view; Constantia lying in a Swoon, and St. Val standing motionless leaning his head against the wall unable to help her. They stew to constantia’s assistance. At length she discovered Some Signs of life. She opened her eyes, but closed them again immediately, exclaiming he is dead, he is no more, I shall never behold him again. The marquis and Julia were equally Surprised and afflicted.
Ah my father, ah my daughter. Says Constantia, in a dying voice, forbear your care : if you love me, you will Suffer me to die; I cannot
Survive this stroke. My dearest Julia,
we have lost all, your father is no more. — She had Scarce pronounced these words, when she fell again into a Swoon. What is my father dead! exclaimed Julia! Dead, cried the marquis,
12
quis, and I shall never have the pleasure of embracing him! St. Val gave them a detail of this unhappy accident. The ship his brother was in foundered at Sea, where he perished, together with the greater part of the crew.
Julia and the marquis were assiduous in assisting Constantia, who still lay motionless; they carried her to her apartment, and put her to bed.
Julia did not stir from her bedside. O heavens, cried she, have I then lost my father I now my misfortunes are complete; I can no longer hope to enjoy any happiness;; is lost, and I am doomed to misery for ever. Ah Octavio, Octavio, if you still live and love me, I have no other consolation remaining!
What! Says Constantia, recovering from the arms of death, do I yet
*
behold the light.? Alas, my daughter,
v
1 have
CONSTANT I A. izi
1 have lost your father, you will never See himl.d heavens!
%
Every one around her partook of her Sorrow, and thereby diminished it. She was obliged to keep her bed for Some days; at last her grief subsided in a stupor, she Spoke little, her heart was void of sensation, and the faculties of her mind Seemed fuspended. Her father and daughter never left her: behold daughter, said she to Julia, into what an abyss of evils a. too fatal passion has plunged me! You’ know already the power of love; .but may you never experience the cruel consequences as I do. Alas, C my dearest father, added she, taking the marquis’s hand,, how Severely am I punished for having offended you,, and neglected my duty! how dearly have I paid for indulging the too great tenderness of my heart! : constantia’s Situation was a strikr ing lesson to Julian It made her perceive
IZ
ceive all the horror that attends the loss of a beloved object. St. Val in the mean time endeavoured to comfort Constantia; he represented to her, that she ought to live for a daughter who was every way So worthy of her care.
But the time was now arrived, when he himself stood in need of the comfort he gave, when Julia, like her mother a melancholy victim of love, must share the Same fate.
She had been tortured Several posts without receiving a letter from Octavio; she counted every hour and minute. Alas, vain hope! Love was no more tha^ enchanting picture which fancy had So pleasingly embellished! now nothing but Srightful images presented themselves, a thousand dismal apprehensions Seized upon her mind; for love in its Sears as well as hopes knows no bounds.
A
 23
A man that deals in toys came to St. val’s, and offered a great variety to Sale. Julia, by way of amuse ment, looked over his goods. The trader considering her with an attention that continually encreased, you seem to look very much at me. Said she to him, Somewhat Surprised and uneasy at the man’s behaviour, excuse my freedom, madam, replied he, I do not know but I may have a portrait in my collection which you may fancy : the more I behold you, the more I think it resembles you; allow me to show it. —. Yes, it is just your eyes, your mouth : it could not have been better executed if you had Sit for it. Come, madam, I hope you will take it off my hand; I shall be very reasonable in the price for So fine a piece. Let me See it then, says Julia, while a tremor Seized on her limbs; whence had you it? From a young gentleman’s
%
124 The HI STORY OF
I
man’s Servant, answered the merchant. And what is become of that young gentleman, .replied Julia, still more alarmed? Do you know him O God! is he well? You Seem to take a very great concern in him, madam, resumed the other: I know no more, but that he was unfortunately killed in the last battle. Here, at last 1 have found the portrait; please to look at it, madam.
Julia took the picture;, but as Soon as she cast her eyes upon it, it fell from her hand; and giving a loud shriek she dropped at her mother’s feet.
St. Val Snatched up the picture, and hastily throwing his eyes upon it, cried. My Son! and instantly Sunk into an armchair asdifelefs as Julia. Constantia, quite amazed. Seized the portrait, and found it to be the Same her daughter by her permission had given Octavio the very day of his departure.
A
4
 25
A few hours after they received certain accounts of octavio’s death, and that he was among those who had fell on the field of battle.
Expreshons are wanting to describe Such moving Scenes. There are no colours lively enough, nor words Sufficient to represent the deplorable sstuation of a father deprived of his only Son at the eve of Seeing himself revive in him again; a raistrefs losing her lover; a mother, who was So recently struck with the greatest of misfortunes, receiving a fresh shock in the person of her daughter; the marquis, stupified with astonishment and grief, are images which the reader can want no colouring to represent to his imagination : and they will not fail to make a deep impression, if he is not entirely destitute of humanity. Such Situations are beyond all description : I shall therefore not attempt to relate
12
the complaints of St. Val or Julia. Every lover and Sather who shall happen to read these tragical adventures will find in their own hearts the Sentiments necessarily produced by the excess of despair these unfortunate persons experienced. I shall imitate that famous painter, who drew a veil over agamemnon’s face when he Sacrificed Iphigenio, as despaired of being able to express a parent’s Sorrow on that occasion. Let it Suffice to Say, that St. Val and the marquis retired from the world, and Spent the remainder of their days in Solitude, and that constan tia and Julia followed their example; and, without taking the vows, gave themselves wholly up to religious exercises, the disappointments they had met with binding them stronger to that holy life than any ties whatsoever.
P T KIT S
