 THE 

D ÉNOUEMENT. 
THE 
DÉNOUEMENT: 
OR, 
HISTORY 
OF 
Lady LOUISA WINGROVE. 
By a LADY. 
DUBLIN; 
Printed by John Exshaw, No. 86, dame street. 
mdcclxxxl. 

PREFACE. 
BY a Lady! — what again! — another pen in petticoats? 
Dear, haughty sovereigns of your sublunary deputation, let not your wrath be kindled !~ mitigate the contempt of that angry lip, and suffer this same lady to deprecate your ire, — to assure your high mightinesses that she has no design whatever of laying claim to any part of the superior dignity of your sex, nor any desire either of competition or conquest — in the literary way. She is neither compelled by necessity to encroach upon your profits, nor incited by ambition to invade your fame. 
Careless of criticism, since secure of concealment; of applause, which, if bestowed, will never be claimed; and of curiosity, which if raised, will never be gratified; she commits the following pages without the smallest anxiety to the press; nor is she vain enough to suppose it of any importance to the public to be informed of the motive which induces her 
to 
to Submit to their inspection a performance, which it is candidly confessed must be deficient in many Species of merit, since it was writ ten without an idea that it might one day become a Subject of public approbation or cen sure. The mere production of leisure, planned for amusement, discovered by accident, and drawn forward by persuasion, it can have no claim to that degree of excellence with which strong genius, experienced judgement, and a long study of nature have So often and so eminently distinguished even writings of this unimportant class; which have exalted trifles into the most elegant sources of entertainment, which have dignified the play of fancy with the powers of instruction, and made even novels subservient to the cause of morality, the improvement of manners, and the refinement of taste. 
The patriotic spirit of the times is such as may make it not amiss to mention, that this little performance is confided to the kingdom in which it was written. 


HISTORY 
OF 
Lady LOUISA WINGROVE. 
LETTER I. 
miss Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
Woodvill. 
anointed Sovereign of sighs and groans, "what a woe begone epistle; ” and all for what, I wonder? why, the plunder of a heart; an unintentional, an involuntary theft! for heaven’s Sake child, of what strange materials are you formed? or why is it that the very Subject of triumph to the major part of your Sex, is to you only an occasion of regret? 
[2] 
After all, my dear, I can Scarce believe your professions to be sincere; or rather, I imagine, you have deceived yourself, what! all this affectionate friendship, this tender pity for the unhappiness of a man that you do not love; — that you never can love! well, we shall see what these platonics will come to! but if I was Sir William, I would not despair, 
’twas but a kindred Sound to move, 
For pity melts the mind to love! 
And compassion, in a mind like yours, is rather suspicious, upon an occasion like this, and where the object is really amiable; a baronet too, with a fine fortune, deuce take this vile capricious little deity of cross purposes! He will pop in his impertinent head, mal a propos enough, sometimes, and at others, where duty, prudence, reason and esteem would concur with every fortunate circumstance to unite two amiable hearts; he laughs at their various efforts, and delights by his absence to prove them ineffectual. 
But wherefore fly from the presence of a lover, So very respectful as Sir William? he is not obtrusive, he is not ridiculous, he does 
[3] 
not torment you with his assiduities or complaints. I Suppose he has by this time entirely lost that air of saucy, careless indifference, which I remember has often piqued me, and which I really believe would have made me triumph in the conquest. 
There is Something vastly provoking in the haughtiness of these secure, confident, self sufficient dons, that bid defiance to our charms, and glory so much in their boasted superiority and freedom; and then, how flattering to bend such a spirit to our sway; to convert their high looks into languishment; and their pride into petitioning humility. Besides, on these we are not bound to bestow even our pity, we reserve this soft sensation for the gentle swain that "unheeding we have taken, ” that acknowledges our power, submits, comme il faut and wears his chains with a good grace. 
Apropos to beaux, — there is a dreadful scarcity of them in this country. I am absolutely weary of it; the place to be Sure is well enough, but — always the country. — I wish to heaven papa would take a good-humoured fit, I wish me up to the metropolis for a few months; but I will not indulge an idea that 
B a can 
[ 4 ] 
can terminate only in disappointment. How is it that I hear no complaints of this kind from you? 
Present my most affectionate respects to your father, from his and your 
H. Rochdale. 
[ 5 ] 
LETTER II 
Miss Wyndham to Miss Rochdale. 
Fanfield. 
WHY, my dear Hen rietta, do you ask me the reason of my solicitude to remove myself from Sir William? Will not your own heart inform you? You Say he Is delicate, he is respectful, therefore why fly him? ’tis true, he is so, and that is the principal cause of my removal; were he otherwise, I should have less anxiety for his happiness; less regret for having wounded it. 
You laugh at the concern I express on this subject, and seem to make very light of what gives me a great deal of uneasiness; but is it then nothing to give pain to a heart that loves me! — To be constrained to deprive myself of the pleasing Society of a man I esteem, to avoid the reproaches that his presence causes me, — to have only the alternative of absence, in opposition to that of additional unhappiness to him, and perpetual constraint to myself! 
[6] 
You deceive yourself, my Henrietta, in the idea that you would triumph in the uneasiness of any human being, were you ever so much provoked to inflict it either by resentment to the object, or a desire of reflecting honour (by such a conquest) on yourself. You are incapable of that cruelty, and I think you are above the vanity of such a sentiment. 
You wonder that I do not complain of the sameness and insipidity of the country. There is a very good reason why, for I do not find it tiresome or insipid; and to me it Is productive of an infinite variety. Let me rather wonder how it is possible for a girl of my henrietta’s fine taste and numerous accomplishments to be weary of the most delightful scenes, merely because they want the charm of novelty to recommend them; or to find that time hang heavy on her hands, or in her imagination, which those hands, and that genius might render so entertaining. 
Music, painting, poetry, the Italian and French languages, history, natural philosophy, and other of the still sublimer studies, that man arrogates to himself, and proudly fences from the encroachments, as he calls 
[ 7 ] 
it, of our sex, are not these so many sources of infinite enjoyment? and in all these you excel. — Your obligations, in this particular, to the best of mothers, can only be equalled by those which I owe to the tenderest of fathers. With what unabated care, what anxious attention have they watched over our infant ideas as they rose; the minutest action, the most trifling expression, was to them, a matter of importance and speculation, as it served to investigate the dispositions they were to cultivate, and the passions they were to curb. 
They taught us also to respect the domestic duties; and to know, that none can so well, or so gracefully perform them, as those whose manners are polished, and whose minds are improved. 
The attributes of our Creator, the bounty of his dispensations, and the beauty of his works was above all the highest source of the sublimest speculation, and the most rapturous gratitude; ah my friend! do you remember when first our little souls received at once the wondrous information and conviction of the mighty debt we owed him? what emotions of 
astonish 
[8] 
astonishment we felt, what tears of grateful transport we shed at the idea of the amazing condescension of a Being whom, though we considered as of power to crush us into nothing, we yet were taught to look up to with an assurance of that power’s being displayed in our protection, so long as we continued to desire and endeavour to deserve it! 
How many years are now passed, since the season of that delightful intercourse, when our instructions, and our enjoyments, our studies, and our Sports were mutual; when I scarce knew the want of a mother, in the attention and affection of my revered Mrs. Rochdale, such I am sure would have been my mother, if she had lived, amiable in the highest degree she must have been, since my father has not even yet ceased to lament her loss. 
She died before I can remember to have seen her, but the grief of my father, and the uncommon degree of affection with which he seemed to have loved her, impressed my mind very strongly with an idea of her excellence. When entering on the years of sensibility, I have often admired at his motives for frequently weeping over me, while I endeavoured to 
[ 9 ] 
entertain him by a thousand childish pleasantries. He has since told me that his emotion was occasioned by the striking resemblance that I had to my mother. 
Ah, had she lived, how dearly, how tenderly I should have loved her! but still in the presence of my father, I have scarcely anything to wish for, anything to regret; indeed, if it was otherwise, I should be most ungrateful, for he is the fondest, the tenderest of parents, and much too partial to the few merits I possess; his eyes are still turned towards me, like the flower that from morning till evening attends the motion of the sun, and in its absence refuses either comfort, or Support., 
The date of my letter will inform you that we have not yet removed : and I believe the style of it, will make it unnecessary to tell you, that my Spirits, are none of the best. There is something sad in the idea of parting for ever even with things inanimate, with plants, flowers, and fields, that cultivation and custom has endeared; how much more then in beholding, the tears, and returning the adieus of a number of faithful and affectionate creatures, by whom I am beloved, and whom I love, even 
[ 10 ] 
for their wants, their dependance and their gratitude, and to whose sickness, and to whose necessities I have been accustomed to administer. 
Sir William, too! — how shall I part from him? yet tomorrow must be the day, and my next letter will be dated from dove brook, the name of our new habitation. My father tells me I will be charmed with the house and situation; he observes the dejection of my spirits, and does all in, his power to. raise them. 
Farewell, my Henrietta, in a few days expect again to hear from your 
L wyndham. 

E II ] 
LETTER IIL 
The Same to the Same. 
dove brook; 
JL his So much dreaded parting is over at lash — >1 will not describe, because I wish to forget it. Sir William begged hard for a correspondence, but this, - for his Sake, I refused, with the greatest delicacy I could.. 
Our present situation Is delightful, the house ‘itself is elegantly neat, and the gardens and improvements Seem to have been the joint production of the most luxuriant fancy, and the most correct and cultivated taste. 
This part of the country, I am told is rather thinly inhabited, and the few families who do reside in it are mostly persons of fortune and distinction. With Such I should not' wish to cultivate much acquaintance, I am of a lowly and unaspiring disposition, unambitious of the regards or condescension of the great. Indeed, our respective dwellings, are here, So 
dill anti 
C 12 3 
distant from each other, that our acquaintance may be also as distant as we please. 
There is one family, however, within the reach of a friendly and intimate neighbourhood; but, the mlstrefs of the mansion is a countess, my dear, need I say anything ' more; we are much too humble to aspire, and she, no doubt, too proud to descend to any advances towards an acquaintance. 
Adieu, for the present, my Henrietta! when anything new or entertaining occurs, I will again take up the pen, but I am now rather too much fatigued to be able to write upon 
mthing. 
Yours ever and ever, 
L Wyndham. 
L E .D 
t 13 ] 
« 
\ 
LETTER IV 
The same to the Same, 
dove brook; 
Wou LD you believe it, my dear, -; : a 
visit from the countess, the young, the fair, the fortunate, the truly amiable countess of jersey! paid in Such a manner too — 
t 
She walked across the fields, attended only by a footman and her maid. She did not know perhaps how we were circumstanced and did not choose to be attended on her first visit with the parade of an equipage. After all, who knows if anything of this ever entered her head? but Somehow, I felt as if it did, and gave her credit for a piece of delicacy that perhaps she never thought of. 
The Servant announced her entrance, which she made with an air and Smile of the most engaging complacence. She behaved with an: elegant freedom, and bespoke our acquaintance as a favour; adding that she did notde 
[ 14 ] 
pend on her own abilities to make Such an in tercourse agreeable to us, for that her brother would assist her In So pleasing a task. 
Who is this brother I wonder? Some diffi’ pated man of quality perhaps. 
The Countess inquired for Lady Eland, and told us, that she had' learned from her, our intentions of coming here. Some weeks before our arrival. So you see; they are acquainted, and correspond: and no doubt she has heard of Sir william’s unhappy attachment. I hope, however, that if she does know, she will conceal her knowledge of it, and that I shall have no idle raillery to endure on the Subject. 
If it was not for this Same brother I should prepare with pleasure to return the countess’^ visit. I dread the probability of his knowing how I was circumstanced with Sir William; if he gives but' the Smallest’ hint’ of it, I shall detest him. — Poor Sir William !■ — what, my Henrietta, if I was to tell youj that it is still possible you may have been right in your conjectures, and that the Sentiment mistoo’k for pity was — I know not what it was. — I sigh Siam painfully sensible.of his absence; Lfome 
tinies 
[ t5 ] 
times wish he had paid less strict obedience to my requests, that he had followed — — this is foolish, but it is true notwithstanding, and I miss, extremely, the Sensible, the elegant, the improving conversation of Sir William, but above all I picture to myself the regret he feels in my absence, the pain he has Suffered, the Silence he has imposed on himself, his attention, his tenderness, his respect— — know not what all this tends to, or what it proceeds from; but Surely, the human heart is a riddle, that no human understanding can fathom; however, be that as it may, the attempt is lade In vain by your 
L Wyndhamt 
EE TV 
I 
[ 16 ] 
1 
L E T T E R V 
The same to the Same. 
dove brook. 
V » 
M O S T astonishing this f — absolutely a 
phenomenon! only think! — a man of quality — a young man — extremely handsome— — on -- ly Son, an immense fortune, a favourite with the ladies, educated in the beau monde, just returned from his tour, and — modest! — true as you live, Sensible too, — unaffected, amiable,, in short, positively enchanting. 
And who, pray, is this wonder I 
Why the brother! So much dreaded. Lord Mordaunt, only Son to the Earl of Granville,, and brother to the charming countess; for charming she is, tho’’ not a perfect beauty. She has that style of face that not only strikes 
at 
[ 17 ] 
at first sight with an idea of united Sweetness and good sense, but improves every hour upon acquaintance; and the elegance of her manners, the variety of her accomplishments, and the goodness of her heart, afford a constant Succession of Something new, to love, to admire, and to praise. 
Her brother — I suppose I must describe him too; but.how? — why, the exact proportion of his stature, the colour of his hair, his nose, eyes, lips, complexion, cc, no, that will never do, it never conveys an idea — how then! I will give you the tout ensemble just as it strikes me. 
His figure is the most perfectly, elegant that it is possible to conceive, his air noble, a little lofty, but no more than just what Suffices to inspire respect, and to render his attentions 
the more flattering. His eyes are dark, quick, 
\ 
penetrating, Sparkling alternate with the fire of wit and genius, and the milder expressions of Sensibility and affection. His countenance glows. Softens and changes with every emotion of his mind; and even if those eyes, and that countenance were hid, his voice, his action, 
his 
[ i8 ] 
his attitude, the very motion of his hand is expressive of the minutest of his feelings. His manners are fraught with the most insinuating grace, and his Smile is animated with a sweetness that — but you will think I exaggerate, and I do not in the least I assure you. 
After all how much is there still wanting to complete the picture? the mere exterior in either man or woman is very immaterial, but then I have Said, he was modest. Sensible, and unaffected. He appears Indeed to be So j but I could draw no certain conclusions, as I have Seen him but once, yet, and he Spoke So little during our visit, that I had not an opportunity of making any certain estimate of his mental qualifications. This reserve, however, is not usual with him, for the countess, on observing it. Seemed uneasy and Surprised, and tenderly inquired if ill health was the cause. He pleaded the headache, but I believe not with truth, for the brilliancy of his eyes, and the glow of his complexion left no room for the Smallest Suspicion of sickness. He had over exer cised perhaps, or was — psha! — — no matter what. 
Yester 
t Ip ] 
Yesterday, on my return from jersey grove, 
I received a letter from miss Eland; she regrets my departure in the most affectionate terms; she Speaks of her brother, he is melancholy, absent, loses his health, declines So fast, they are quite alarmed about him, and are projecting an immediate departure to the South of France, to try what that exhilarating climate will do for the restoration of his health and Spirits. 
Good God! why am I made the instrument of affliction to one I So much esteem? — Poor Sir William! in my last, I remember, I mentioned Something, as if I more than esteemed him, but I deceived myself — it was only — what? — I know not, I know not my own heart, but this I know, that it was not love, would to heaven it was! I would wish to love, wish to return his tenderness, and reward his unmerited constancy. But indeed and indeed, my Henrietta, I am now more than ever as sured that it is Impossible I ever can love Sir William; my friendship is still the Same, my compassion still greater, but my repugnance to a tenderer union is, I know not how, more deeply rooted than before. 
The 
t 20 ] 
The account that his sister had written me of his situation, affected me So much, that I. Was all the night tormented in idea with his Sufferings, heightened by the busy demon of steep, to that degree, that I avroke, Spiritlefs, dejected and impressed with a kind of gloom that was difficult to shake off. I enclose you a few lines of poetry that were dictated by the occasion. 
Ah, cease, tormenting vision, cease! 
Nor image still damon’s woe, 
Can I restore his banish’d peace? 
Will friendship give it back? — ah, no! 
Then change thy likeness, gentle dream; 
, Reproach no more with damon’s pain. 
No longer urge the lovelorn theme. 
But let him still my friend remain. 
Were he content to share Such love. As a dear brother might receive. 
Then, all he wish’d, with joy i’d prove. 
But more than this I cannot give. 
Then 
( 21) 
Then once, fantastic power, be kind! 
For once a suppliant’s prayer attend. 
Thus chang’d present him to my mind, 
And lose the lover in friend 
4 
* ^ * 
4 J A ^ 
i 
i 
« 
% \ 
I 
LET.. 
22 ] 
LETTER VI 
miss Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
Woodvill. 
p0 0 R Sir William / ah louisa! you arc now convinced you can never love him, your repugnance is now greater than ever. And why now? I will tell you, — but Softly, I must first ask you a question; pray, my dear, have you any faith in fated love? — in firjl fght impressions? 
You were in a poetical vein from the be^ ginning to the end of your last letter, and I think your prose to the full as animated as your verse; but who would not be animated with Such a tout ensemble, who could give the description in colours less glowing? 
Pray was it Cupid, or Apollo that inspired? 
L E TI 
*3 ] 
♦ 
LETTER VII 
Lord Mordaunt to Sir George Hastings, Bart. 
< 
jersey Grove.. c3 H, George! your prophecy is fulfilled; 
4 
behold me at length, what you have So often predicted, — a lover! my eyes opened on a new world of strange pleasures, strange pains, new feelings, and new existence! — but why do I repose in you a confidence, that will only Subject me to your raillery? you believe that it is possible to love, without ever having formed one just idea of that passion, without comprehending its nature, or knowing its extent, — do not therefore ridicule what you cannot understand, till you first have learned to feel it. 
The Small, but elegant Seat of Sir Charles wilson, I have already told you, was purchased by a Mr. Wyndham: we know not wsho he was, or from whence he came, till 
a letter 
[ 44 ] 
a letter from Lady Eland informed us particularly concerning him. 
Her ladyship had long corresponded with my sister, and often deplored the hopeless passion that her Son entertained for an object, whom she described as the Sum of perfection and beauty; but regretted her insensibility to the love and the merits of Sir William : this object. So loved and So pralsed, we knew not to be the daughter of Mr. Wyndham, till a few days before his arrival at dove brook, when Lady Eland recommended her So warmly to my sister’s acquaintance, that I expected its commencement with the greatest impatience; yet, — would you believe it! an unaccountable Something prevented me from accompanying my sister, on a visit which she made them. 
She raillied me Smartly on her return, and laughed at the eagerness that I showed for Some account or description of this inexorable beauty, but none would she give me; and “take care of your heart, my lord 1” was all the answer I could receive. 
The 
[ 25 ] 
The next day, a carriage stopped at the ate, I started, I ran to the window, — my ister laughed, I returned with precipitation vexed at having discovered my impatience, [he would have it that I blushed. — “What Harry! before you have Seen her; ” — nay re plied I, if you are So much afraid for my heart, I had better keep it out of danger, and will do So I promise you, if you go on at this rate. 
I thought I had Said enough, but she only redoubled her mirth; I was almost angry, the entrance of the visitors restrained me, - — Mr. "Wyndham and his daughter were not of the number, and I felt, though I did not care to confess myself disappointed. 
n' 
They came however, at last, the countess in troduced them, — Brother — miss Wyndham— — gazed in silent wonder, I had Scarcely power to return her grateful Salute, a penetrating glance from my sister aroused me, and I endeavoured to assume a freedom of carriage, but I felt that it was constrained, I felt all a confused tumult of emotions and ideas hitherto unknown. 
[ 26 1 
f 
Yet it was not a mere form, a Set of features and complexion, it was the animating Soul, the Spark of kindred Sentiment that kindled at my heart. — It was, — but why should 1 attempt a description of what no pen can describe, no pencil can paint? Her form and features I could exactly delineate, but how shall I convey to your ideas the grace that accompanies her every motion, the gentle dignity of her air and manner the fascination of her Smiles, and the bewitching Sensibility that pens in her countenance? 
It was in vain that the down cast eye, and heightened complexion of the Sweet louisa reproached the earnestness of my gaze’; I felt that I was guilty of rudeness, I endeavoured to direct my eyes elsewhere, but they involuntarily returned, and fixed their regards upon her. 
She talked too, to complete her conquest, and O George! • Such language I: — Such sentiments! uttered too with Such an accent, in a voice — it still vibrates in my ear! — So tuned. So modulated. So Sweetly harmonious! — alas! unhappy Eland I 
‘r/tv 
t 47 ] 
My sister Spoke of Lady Eland, and Said that she had just received a letter in which she tinformed her, that Sir William had determined ‘on a journey, to the South of France, to reestablish his health, which declined very much. louisa blushed scarlet deep, and turned away to hide a tear that started to her eye. What 
V 
a disposition I oh, how I loved her for the charming discovery 1 
■ Mr. Wyndham appears not much turned of forty, bis person is noble and graceful, his alir uncommonly pensive, and his countenance has a Sweet but dejected cast, his manners have a polish that must have been acquired in a situation very different from his present retirement. His circumstances Seem to be easy, but not affluent.; perhaps the loss of fortune, or that of friends may be the cause of his alienation from the world, and the dejection that is So visibl e in his countenance. 
But tell me, do you not think it strange that the addresses of Sir William Eland should be rejected? brave, generous, handsome and accomfuished. How could a tender and sym ipathizing heart blast the hopes, and the hap[ 
[ ] 
piness of So deserving, and So adoring a lover, unless that heart was preoccupied by another? a disposition like louisa’s cannot be incapable of love, yet who can hope to Succeed, when Sir William Eland has failed .<* I know not what to think, but I would still flatter myself that her affections are disengaged, and that they may be reserved to return the passion, and complete the happiness of your 
H. Mordaunt. 
y 
I 
/ »• 
LET( 
( 
29 3 
LETTER VIII 
miss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
f 
dove brook. 
V 
X OU astonish me, Henrietta! firji ftght I — Sure you would not insinuate — but what foundation? — what have I Said to make you suppose that — psha, ridiculous, you could not have supposed it! but if you did, I assure you your penetration sees double, for, far as I am from loving Sir William, I know not that man upon earthy who could rival him in my regard. But no more of him! let me endeavour to forget the painful Subject. He is gone with his mother and sisters to France : O may he meet that repose that he Seeks for, may peace return to his breast, and successful love obliterate every painful idea of the pash 
I have already dismissfed one Subject, and half a sheet of paper not yet silled up; what then shall I do for the rest? — The country, — no room for my descriptive talents, nothing curious, or particular; groves, hedges, gars 
3^ 1 
dens, meadow’s, and corn fields, — nothing more, — well then the amusements! — I have Seen none, — the neighbourhood then !■■■ — but one family that we are as yet acquainted with, and I must be silent In their particular, for fear of Some man of your Sage conclusions. So fare you well my dear. I am Sure you expected a long letter, but you may thank yourscls 
for your disappointment.. 
/ 
k 
I 
LET 
✓ • ' 
4 
I 31 I 
LETTER X 
Sir George Hastings, Bart, to Loid 
Mordaunt. 
Dondon. 
S O then, that little damned, mischievous urchin, love, whim, caprice, or whatever you please to call him, has at last robbed me of my friend, has ** turned his wits the Seamy side without.” 
/ 
Your letter Sound me in the properest mood, to rally its contents, and convince you of their folly. inspired by the jolly god, with a hearty contempt for your litt!e puny deity, I have just broke from a circle of choice Spirits, to ask you whether you have not given the conge to your senses? 
Can it then in reality enter your head, that the Earl of Granville, with a fortune of twenty, thousand pounds per annum, will Suffer an only and accomplished Son, the darling of his affections, and the honour of stis family, to 
[ 32 1 
stoop to the degrading alliance of an obscure girl? ridiculous my dear Harry! hope not, dream not of it; the overture would not Subject you to the mortification of a certain denial, and the weight of his heavy displea 
\ 
Sure. 
This your passion may deem a misfortune for the present, but your delirium will Soon end, and you will find it a benefit and a blessing. 
I admit that this louisa may be beautiful, even to excess, as you allege, and that you must be wretched Sora time, without her : but this is a matter very easily obviated; your manners are insinuating, your person formed to charm. Such a conquest, with love, liberty, and a handsome Settlement for life, would make her the envy of four fifths of the ladies in capital. 
After all, my dear boy, I have a certain fear about me, that the Sanity of my counsels may be thrown away upon you. I have often remarked in you a peculiar fqueamishness of morals, that not only Subject you to a thousand inconveniences, but in a manner shuts 
[ 33 ] 
the door of Society against you; do my dear Harry, abate of this fault, I beseech you, ’tis in the eye of the world, the most unpardonable of which you can be guilty. Be more pliant, more conformable to the customs of mankind, or you will shortly be left to yourself, 
N 
as comfortless and lonely as the old Solitary tree on the commons of Banstead. 
.if 
r 
* 
/ 
C s LET[ 
[ 1 
V 
"*■ f 
L E T T E R X 
> 
I? 
Lord Mordaunt to Sir George Hastings, Bart. 
jersey Grove. 
AAOW have I been mistaken! how have I been deceived 1 but the delusion is vanished; and he who possessed my confidence, and shared my heart, avows himself unworthy the name of friendship. 
To me then. Sir George I to me, would you propose your Schemes of treachery and Seduction? Me would you load with the guilt of corrupting female purity, of Seducing innocence, and that too under the mask of tenderness and affection; — heavens! how could I have been So long, and So greatly deceived? 
/ 
But you were intoxicated when you wrote, — fain would I endeavour to apologise for your shocking proposal; yet I can hardly think 
I 35 ] 
that the temporary privation of reason, would admit of Such horrid Sentiments, in a breast naturally honourable and humane. 
Farewell, I wish for your reformation,, but' 
Han no longer accept of your friendship. 
t 
/ 
\ 
\ 
f. 
/ 
I 
N 
•# 
L. E T 
% 

[ 36 1 
LETTER XI 
miss Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
’ woodviil 
N A Y, now my dear, you are quite unreasonable, you punish me too Severely for a little harmless raillery; however, I promise you, that you shall no more have any reason to complain of me, in this particular, provided that you no longer treat me with reserve; besides, if you are innocent of my charge, why any concealment? the best way to convince me that you are So, is to write with your usual Sreedom; and since your Scene of acquaintance and amusement is confined to jersey Grove, pray do not shut me out from your circle any longen. 
As for me, I have nothing wherewith to entertain either you or myself; my life glides on in the prettiest little innocent, simple, insipid manner imaginable, and fidgeting about from one demure employment to another, forms the whole contour of my Sprightly amusements. 
I 37 1 
Since you were So firmly determined against a union with Sir William, I am glad that he has left the kingdom; his absence will rid you of a painful remembrance, and may possibly cure himself of a disease that no other medicine could remedy. 
Th is love is a Sad dismal piece of business; papa, too, Seems Sensible that It Is So, and resolves to keep me out of harms way; however, I would venture the trial, since I should be very certain that I had inspired, before I would Suffer myself to feel it. 
Write, pray write, my dearest louisa; your letters are the principal pleasure of my life, do not then deprive your Henrietta of almost her only enjoyment. 
.r 
/ 
leti[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XII 
miss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
dove brook. 
Well LX my dear, eensorious, blundering girl, I find I must forgive you this time; but remember the conditions you, yourself have agreed to. 
We are now quite intimate at jersey grove^. and I alture you, L am downright vain of the distinction with which the charming countess’ honours, me, yet it is not for her elevated rank, but her Superior excellence, that I am foj There Seldom pastes a day,, that we are not together, either here or at jersey Grove. We laugh, chat, sing,, walk, and work,, alteritate ly, hut music fills up a principal portion oft our time; in this Lord Henry is a great assistance; he is master of Several instruments, and : excels' on the violin and german flute; his voice too is most exquisitely charming, and is Softened, with a cadence and expression, that it is impossible to describe. 
Lord 
C 39 3 
Lord egmont’s family, Colonel wilville’s, ^ and ours, are almost the only frequent visitors at jersey Grove. I was introduced to them all; they Seem to have very little character. So I will not attempt to describe them. In my mind, our little circle wants no addition; Lord Henry too is of the Same opinion, and declares his disapprobation whenever the countess talka of enlarging it. Pray be quiet, my dear Eliza, he cries, if you will think with me, we are perfectly happy as we are. Why should you and miss Wyndham Sacrifice your time for the ba?: ard of other people’s improvement?, 
But I have not yet told you of the terrible disaster that befell me, nor that I now write wdth my left eye bound up with a handker, chief. Rackets and his lordship had, I assure, you, like to have been fatal to it; however, I, was not much hurt, even at the time, but the violence with which the shuttle cock struck, against it startled me a good deal. Lord Heur ry turned as pale as death; dashed down the, racket, flew to me, — then to the bell, — rang it with violence, * — uttered a thousand incoherent Sentences,, and ran about the room like, one distracted !I stood looking at him for a, 
few 
[ 40 ] 
few minutes and then burst into an immoderate fit of laughter. 
This restored him to his senses, he took my hands, he trembled all over, — ‘‘how unfortunate! — but was I indeed not very much hurt? • — might he hope? — might he I continued 
to laugh, he coloured like Scarlet. — Lady jersey entered, he flew to her, and told her the dreadsul story, one word of which she could not understand; but guested at the accident, from feeing the handkerchief to my eye. The pain was, by this time, almost gone, but as it was a little Swelled she thought it necessary I should keep it covered. 
His apprehensive lordship is Scarcely yet recovered from the shock of this terrible event. Either at dove brook, or at his sister’s, he is perpetually at my side. If I am silent, ’tis from excess of pain, if I talk, ’tis only to quiet his fears, I must not walk out for fear of too much air. Working, reading, or painting, would be worse; it would strain my sight too much; now I have but one eye, I laugh at his prescriptions, but I observe them however; for he makes up by his company and his sister’s for the loss of my usual amusements. 
t 41 1 
He sings, plays, and reads for me by turns, but this, alas 1 was the cause of another unfortunate mishap. 
A new Tragedy was announced, very beautiful, very interesting, and highly wrought. Lord Henry would read it. The countess and I were all attention. The catastrophe quite overcame him, his voice faltered, his tears flowed, he closed the book for a moment, and turned to us, — we were drowned in tears, and wept and sobbed most violently. 
He was alarmed, — away flew the tragedy, — heavens! had he but thought, but reflected a moment! that cursed book! — why did he read it? — he was mad to read it! — we should be ill I — we must have drops 1 — we must have Something! 
My eye too, would be all inflamed! — what an unfortunate wretch! — he folded his arms round us, — dearest Eliza! — dearest misswynd ham! — will you, will you forgive me! I believe he would hardly forgive me if he knew that I have laughed twenty times since at the recollection of his distress. 
I don’t 
I 42 ] 
I don’t know how It is, but I find myself more entertained in the company of the coun 
■N 
tess, and her brother, than, I am Sure, I should be in any other Society in the world, that of my Henrietta excepted, and was she here there would be no addition wanted to the happiness of her 
L W, 
A 
t 
V \ 
I 
L LI .D 
C 43 3 
, • 
LETTER XIII 
\ f 
Sir George Hastikgs to John Reynolds, esq. 
London. 
What a pleasure It is, my dear Jack, to 
have a friend, to whom a man may open his whole heart, without apprehension or reserve : our Souls are in a manner the Same, they quadrate like dice; and answer like a pair of indentures to each other. 
You have already Seen and conversed with the young Sentimental heir of the Granville family; So I need not describe him to you. My acquaintance with him commenced by an accident, when we were both on our tour, in Italy. He Saved my life (though a stranger) at the hazard of his own. I was grateful; I loved him j of consequence I studied 
his 
f 44 1 
his disposition, and conformed myself in a measure to principles that were very opposite to my own; for in spite of his romantic absurdity, he does not want for fense, and is besides uncommonly amiable, at least I then thought So, and was induced in part to dissemble my real Sentiments, rather than forfeit So agreeable an acquaintance, and one to whom I was So much obliged. 
But all is now cancelled, all is forgot, ^ — Such 
an insult as I have received! — I enclose you his impertinent letter, ^read, read, I beg of 
you: — I also enclose you a former one, giving an account of his ridiculous attachment; together with a copy of my answer to it, as nearly as I can recollect. I was indeed warmed with wine, when I wrote it, or I should not have told him So openly my mind, but Surely it did not deserve So insolent a retort. 
I shall not exact a personal Satisfaction, I do not believe he would accept a challenge; and if he did, it would be only a common revenge. But to rob him of his louisa, Jack! that, that would be glorious vengeance! and 
Such 
[ 45 ] 
Such a Scheme have I laid, that it is Scarcely possible it can fail of fuccess. 
In the first place, I have already written a penitential letter to his lordship. — Exceedingly concerned for having given him offence, by what was only meant as a jest. — Should not have even rallied upon Such a Subject, but wine, c— — myself in the wrong, — would not forfeit his friendship for the world. — Counterfeit a passion for Mils Walpole; for whom I really have a little tender — her charms, and his good example have at length reformed me, — wish of all things to see him, and request his company in town. 
wnat Sollows -- -- he thinks me sincere, 
and as he cannot leave his sister, will 
probably invite me to jersey Grove. -- -- -- -- -1 
come. See, and overcome, for I am not usu ally unfuccessful in affairs of gallantry. But let that happen as it may, the breach between them is inevitable, for I have laid my plot So deep, that my revenge is certain, though my Scheme of Seduction should fail. 
You 
[ 4« ] 
_ ■ V 
You shall hear from me again, when I receive mordaunt’s answer, till when 1 remain 
Your 
Gr. Hastings, 
f 
; 
X 
‘ / f 
LET 
y 
0 
I 47 1 
I 
N - 
L E T T E R XIV 
9 
• ' ' tr 
Lord Mordaunt to Sir George Hastings. 

jersey Grove. 
I^ET us exchange sorgiveness, George; I accept of your apology, and very willingly ask pardon in return for any offence that I may have given you. 
I the readier credit your professions of reformation, as you acknowledge yourcels no longer a prpphaner of the gentle power, but an humble Suppliant at his shrine. You have attached yourself to a woman of worth and honour, most sincerely do I wish you success;; yet, — you will pardon me George, — I can yet Scarcely persuade myself that you are in love, you are too dissipated, too much under the dominion of passion and caprice, I fear you iiave not yet learned to 
.iselflsh 
[ 48 ] 
(Selfish joy disdaining) Seek alone To bless the dearer object of your flame. 
True love, George, is enriched by bestow 
.1 
ing; its principal joy consists in the consciouf nefs of imparting enjoyment; without this fond fensation, a Venus, new risen from her native Sea, were less estimable to him than her marble to the Me did. 
The former part of your letter I do not So much wonder at, as it was a very natural conclusion you draw from my father’s loftiness; I fear indeed it is but too just, yet that is at present the least of my concern. A more important care hangs heavy at my heart : for could I once be So blessed as to gain an interest in the gentle bosom of my lovely loursa, I should not despair of my father’s consent; notwithstanding the disparity of our fortunes and situation, I would hope everything from his fondness, and the natural goodness of his heart. My mother too, may not her influence have Some effect? She loves me with a wild ness, an enthusiasm of maternal affection! and I return it with a lovepaffmg all that Son ever entertained for her from whom he drew his existence and nourishment. 
1 49 •] 
'Never .Dali I forget the aft'ecting sce fte, when I was torn from her.'to accompany my ■tutor to Italy. 
'My child. Said this fond parent, do You, 
know that your mother’s life is bound up In her 
Henry? You are young, and inexperienced, 
ny Son; of a warm ‘and precipitate temper; 
any cause, if slightly coloured by triendship'^or 
generosity, is Sufficient to engage you in the 
most perilous undertakings. G heaven! she 
exclaimed, and burst into tears, — first lay these 
locks in the dust, let my eyes close for ever 
before they behold — I cannot say — i dare not « 
think — you understand me, my Harry! 
Too well, too well, madam, I, passionately replied; you shall make a coward of me, I will .grow caresul of this insignificant life, for the sake of a life that is infinitely dearer. 
Will not this mother, think you, exert to the utmost her influence, in favour of ^ Son So dear? And can a fond father, and an adoring husband, reject her Soft Solicitations? But above all, one sight of my angel will banish every objection, and instant admiration must Succeed. You will perhaps think this the colouring of 
t 
[ 50 i 
passion, but every tyz brightens at her approach, every heart gladdens at her presence. 
Think not, however, George, that the Seducing graces of beauty alone could ever have fixed my heart; think not either, but that I could love, entirely independent of them. Were age, were ugliness itself informed with a soul like louisa’s, that Soul would shed a fascinating charm around it, infinitely more attractive and endearing than anything that beauty can boast. 
About four days ago as I was rambling about, Mr. wyndham’s improvements, I thought I Saw Something like the form of louisa, entering a hut, at a good distance from me; I instantly flew towards it, the door was open, I entered, but no one appeared; the back paf sage opened into a little garden, I passed it, and through the branches of a hedge that was at hand, I discovered the lovely girl, like an angelic minister of heaven dispensing comforts and blessings to all around. 
ia 
widow, the proprietor of this lowly mansion, sat beholding her from a bench of turf, while she stood encircled by the five children 
of 
I SI J 
6f her pensioner. To one she Seemed to dictate Some matter O'! instruction, to a Second she gave Sweetmeats, she dressed the head of a third; she took up a cherub looking little boy, and kissed it with tenderness, and all Successively shared in her bounty or endearments. They looked up to her delighted, they Seized, they clung about her, she broke from them, with a playful air, and they followed with a shout of joy. 
At last she turned to the mother, and perceiving that the tears, drop by drop, rolled in silence dovvn her cheeks, she kindly took her by the hand, and inquired why she wept. O my young lady, she replied, forgive my tears, they do not stow from Sorrow, but from gratitude, from wonder at your condescending goodness. louisa Smiled inexpressible sweet ness, and turning to the place where I had concealed myself, I was obliged to desert my post, as my unexpected appearance at that time might have put her to Some confusion. 
A 
The moment I got home, I Sat about contriving some stratagem for assisting this favourite, in Such a manner, as might hold it concealed from her benefactress, and even 
r 52 ] 
from herself, what quarter it came from. 1 have Succeeded to my wish, and am rejoiced at it, as from the appearance Mr. Wyndham makes, I do not imagine bis fortune to be Such: as would answer every demand that So benevolent a heart might make upon it. 
I thank you for your invitation, but cannot accept of it at present; Lord jersey, as you know, has left my sister in my guardianship till his return from France. And as well on her account as that of louisa, it is not in my power to attend you; but if you will favour us with your company at jersey Grove, I promise you a hearty welcome. I wish you could prevail on colonel Ashworth to accompany you. I have written to request it, but fear that it will Scarcely be in his power. Lady ashworth’s declining years, and health requires the tender attention of Such a Son j and he pays it most nobly. 
your’s ever 
> 
tl. Mordaunt. 
LET 
1 
[ s3 3 
•s. 
LETTER XV 
miss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
dove brook. 
TT 
XZ/VERY day Some fresh instance occurs of the virtues and benevolence of this amiable family. 
IKS 
Have I ever mentioned to you a Mrs, Chalmers, an unfortunate widow, who by the prodigality and death of her husband, was reduced to the utmost indigence and distress, and would have perished with her five children, had not Providence directed me to the miserable cottage, where they had taken shelter, and laid themselves down to die?, 
’’ I continued to visit this poor widow, and Supply her with the necessaries of life, when a few days ago as I walked towards the cottage, she came running to meet me, her countenance expressive of a variety of emotions; she sunk on her knees before me she 
kisted 
£ 54 ] 
kissed my hands, and my gown, and wet them with her tears. O my dearest madam, she at last exclaimed I this is too, too much 1 you overpower, you crush us with the excess of jour goodness I ’tis in vain that you would shrink from acknowledgments, and strive to. avoid the overflowings of our gratitude; it is, 
alas! the only tribute that is left us to pay. 
/ 
I was astonished 1 I assured her I was entirely ignorant of her meaning. She then produced a rouleau containing fifty guineas which had been inclosed in a cover, directed to her, with just a few lines intimating the donor’s desire, that she should receive the money and apply it to her own use, but take no further 
notice, nor mention a word of it to any one. 
( 
f 
I knew not what to think, but retained the cover, and promised I would endeavour to find out the hand. The countess of jersey first struck me, but I recollected that neither she, nor her brother had ever heard me mention the name or circumstances of this unfortunate woman. They both Spent the next day with us at dove brook, and an opportunity offered of discovering what I before strongly suspect ed. 
After 
t 55 ] 
After coffee, — I Sat down to the harpsichord, as usual, and Lord Mordaunt accompanied me on the German flute. When we had performed Some pieces of the most approved masters, the countess desired her brother to favour us' with the Song which he had compo fed, in imitation of the Scotch airs; he played, and afterwards Sung It, at my request, the 'words too were his own, and pleased me So much, ^ that 1 begged a copy of them; he instantly took the original from his pocketbook, and presented it to me. A Sudden thought struck me, 
I retired to the window, and taking out the • cover that had accompanied the donation to Mrs. Chalmers, I compared the writing with that of the verses, and found it to be exactly the same. 
I felt myself colour excessively, and hastily slipped the paper into my pocket. 
Why did I blush that time? what cause had I for it? — but one is Sometimes in a humour to blush at everything. 
/ 
I request, my dear Henrietta, that yen will never again rally me,, on my supposed affection 
for Lord. Mordaunt. Twice, or thrice that 
/ 
flnv' 
C 5^ 3 
* day, when rhy eyes met his, your letters came into my head, and I looked, — Somehow, — very foolish, I am afraid. But indeed, from the ' moment that I made the discovery I told you of, I felt as if there were a hundred pulses in my cheeks: and the glow of them continued through the whole evening. Ever since, have I been endeavouring to find out the reason of | this, but all to no purpose., unless it was the fear of his having Seen that I was acquainted with what he wished to conceal. — Certainly, k must have been that. 
\ 
> 
LET. 
[ 57 ] 
'» 
LETTER XVI 
miss Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
Woodville. 
Prepare for a Surprise, my louisa, 
prepare for a thousand gratulatlons to your friend I My brother, that most beloved of brothers whom v/e have So long lamented as dead; he lives, he is found, he returns to our arms I — but take his own account of his most providential escape.. 
the battle of Fontenoy, So fatal to our' brave troops, I acted as aid de camp to his Highness the Duke of Cumberland; in the heat of the engagement ray horse was killed under me, and I fell, covered with blood, though but slightly wounded, among the dead and dying; my right leg was fast in the stirrup, and I was further incommoded by the weight of my horse, for I had fallen under him; So that it was with difficulty and much struggling that I at length disengaged myself. 
D 5 1 then 
t 58 ] 
** I then sought for sometime on foot, and eager to distinguish myself, I had the good fortune to achieve one of the enemy’s standards, and was returning with triumph. But my precipitation had hurried me beyond the bounds of prudence. I was Surrounded by a, party of the enemy, and though I fought with desperation, determined to Sell my life as dear as possible, I grew at last faint with lost of blood, and fatigue, and was just sinking to the ground, when their commanding officer rode up. 
“He ordered them instantly to desist, and taking me kindly by the hand. Brave stranger, Said he, in French, I grieve that you have Suffered So much from the barbarity of those men whom I have the misfortune to command, but I will do my best to repair the injuries you have Suffered, and to give you a more favourable impression of my country than you have yet had reason to receive. 
I had Scarcely strength left to thank him for his timely and generous assistance, but fainted, covered with wounds, into his arms“ 
“
f 59 ] 
^ When I recovered, I found myself on abed in his tent, he was Sitting beside me, and held my hand in his; the moment I opened my eyes, I perceived that my preserver was interested in my fate, and that he afterwards appeared rejoiced when the Surgeon pronounced my wounds not mortal.. I expressed my Surprise and gratitude for his generous concern; why sir, replied he, should you wonder at an action that common humanity would dictate? besides I am indebted to you for the emulation which your gallant behaviour inspired me with; it caught my notice, and challenged my esteem, and from the beginning of the engagement r remarked and endeavoured to imitate it: My name is St. Alnais, be under no apprehensions from confinement, I shall detain you, but not as my prisoner; from the moment that your health permits it you. are free. So saying he quitted me without: waiting a reply. 
“Though my wounds were not mortal,, yet all the skill of the Surgeons could not prevent a long and very d ngerous fever, during which the Society and attention of my preserver contributed more than anything to my cure. I languished for Several weeks frorn 
the 
[ 6o ] 
the crisis of the disorder, before I was perfectly recovered; and St, Alnais was Scarcely ever from my side. By this means we had each of us an opportunity of investigating the disposition and Sentiments of the other, and we found them So perfectly corresponding, that a sincere and tender friendship ensued. 
“I now began to reflect on the anxiety which you, my dear parents, must feel from So total a silence with regard, to your Son; and determined as Soon as my health would per» rnit, to look out for Some method of conveying you certain intelligence concerning him; this I did, and wrote Several letters, but never. received any answer; ■ a length of time had now elapsed, I was alarmed, I determin> ed to retarn^i and imparted my intention t 'SF, Alnmsi 
“Alas I my dear Rochdale, he repried, your apprehensions respecting your parents remind me, like Pharaohbutler, of my owm fault's at this day. • ■ ’ 
‘‘ My father is dead, I have but one pa' rent, but Surely, the dearest and tenderest that ever looked with blessing on the face of a 
r hnlrl 
[ 6i I 
child. But what bounds can be Set to the intemperance, and passions of a boy? I had heard of the high honours that were to be achieved in war; and hurried on by an internal propensity that I could not resist, I ungratefully and ungracioufly forsook thisi precious mother, and engaged a volunteer in marshal saxe’s regiment, where I was gradually promoted to the command of a troop. If you will accompany she on a visit to my iho there, and that a peace (which is now talked of) should take place, I promise you to use my utmost interest for permission to return with you to England. 
'I joysully embraced this proposal; we Soon reached the well known habitation, but alas I this beloved mother was not to be sounds nor any tidings had concerning her. 
How shall I tell you the distraction ol my friend; we travelled great part of France in her Search, at length despairing to find herj St. Alnais turned to me wdth a fondly deject ■ air — I have now, Said he, no parents, no kindji^ed, no connexions with any one but yourptf upon earth; a peace Is concluded, I will Sulsil my promise, and quit fora time. 
Scenes 
C 62 ] 
Scenes that Serve but to remind me of the misery of my loss. 
\ I 
We are preparing to return, take care of your heart, my sister; he is the loveliest of the human Species.” 
Thus far proceeds my brother’s letter; do you not Smile at the conclusion? This formidable friend, my dear, let him come! I Set him and his attractions at defiance; he is a noble fellow for all that, and I believe I shall lovo him — a little. 
Your 
H. Rochdali:. 
\ 
/ 
[ 63 T 
LET T E R XVIL 
Sir George Hastings to John Reynolds, esq. 
jersey Grove. 
V 
X Promised in my last to give you a minute account of the progress I should make in the affections of this little gypsy; and presump tuousty imagined I could not fail of fuccess: 
I _ 
for to Say truth, in affairs, of gallantry I have generally come off with an /<? triumphe but here I have been most Superlatively baffled, she will not allow me to come withim the length of any possible capitulation. 
What in the devil’s name can be the matter with her? I never was used So In my life; but these country damsels are So confoundedly skittish, — yet no, let me not injure her, - — she has not the Smallest tincture of rusticity in either her person or deportment, and I do 
C t4 I 
her no more than justice, wshen I allow that it is impossible for any one but myself to take exception to anything about her. To me indeed she ought to appear everything that is ugly and detestable, since she Seems to regard me in no better a light. 
She has been but once at jersey Grove since I came, though we have often visited at her father’s: my eyes alone can convey to her the intelligence of my heart, and she Seems disconcerted, and even offended at their language. The impertinent stare of curiosity is disgusting and offensive tp every one; but the fixed regard of admiration and passion is what most fine wornen, think due to their charnris. But I know too well; how to account for this coldness; Harry (confound them both) is certainly. the Endymion of this. cynthia’s contemplations. Her fine face is involuntarily animated with joy at his approach, and clouded with chagrin at his departure; all her com -- placence, all her attention is. lavished upon him alone. Could I become a tame romantic, 
s 
virtuous fool like him, I should perhaps obtain Some share of her approbation; but in spite of the cautious regularity of. my conduct,;, my eyes I .fear have betrayed me, and 
the 
[ «5 ] 
the little prude more than guestes at what she would call the depravity of my Sentiments. Thus am I doomed like Satan on the tree of life, to envy, and even hate; that virtue which I have neither will nor ability to practise. 
^ • • J.. 
e A 
Yesterday, Harry and I walked together to Mr. wyndham’s, where I again Saw his lovely daughter; I fancy she Spied our approach 
A 
from the window, for though her favourite was with me, yet she was called Several times before she would deign to make her appear 
I 
ance. But she shall dearly repent this rooted aversion to me; for though I dote on her to distraction, yet there is a Species of malignity in my passion. This hated pair shall jointly share my vengeance, and the storm is now Impending that shall shortly burst upon their 
heads.,, 
* 
Yours more than ray own, 
G. Hastings, 
•' i. 
LET 
66 3 
LETTER XVIII 
Mils Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
/ 
Woodville — eleven o’clock at night, 
o. 
jljl E is come! he is come, my dear louisa, and I sit down even at this late hour to communicate my happiness to you; the compliment indeed is not much, as I have no manner of inclination to steep. 
’tis not many hours since he arrived. After dinner I went out to the garden to pull a hosegay, when Frederic came to let me know that my father desired my company. 
I instantly obeyed — — when I entered the parlour, the first objects that presented themselves were two strange gentlemen at the head of the room. Their backs were to the light, So that I was in doubt of ever having Seen them before, but Something within me was of intelligence, and whispered that it was my Edward, for I felt my heart throb,, and my 
colour 
t «7 ] 
colour come and go, — my father Smiled. — -- As I approached I began to discover the well-known features; and Springing forward, I cried out, Oh! my brother 1 -- -- -- My sister 1 my 
Henrietta! he exclaimed,, and caught me in his arms— — heard no more, but instantly fainted away. 
When I opened ray eyes, I Saw my dear and tender mother in tears, and kneeling beside me; and heard her Say to my father. Why my love would you Surprise her So, I knew her gentle Spirit could not bear it? Gentle fiddlestick, returned he, she will be well enough by and by. 
My dear Edward held my hand in his, and wet it with his tears, which flowed in abundance down his manly cheeks; how affccting it is to See a man w’eep, louisa? I observed too, that the stranger had turned to the window, to conceal his emotion. 
My brother is, I think, rather improved by his travels; he has lost indeed the delicacy of his complexion when a boy, but has contracted in its stead a martial air and manly deportment, which is much more becoming and 
agree: 
: [ 
agreeable than beauty in a man, if attenue with the least appearance of effeminacy. 
* 
L i : ■ ^ • 
Would to heaven, louisa, that you wet here to complete myshappiness. — The strange — but I will tell you of him in my next, for th present my hand is almost giddy with the jo of this meeting, and I must bid you a reluq ant adieu. — — 
H. Rochdals 
V 4. 
• V * 
•., — ' - t 
0 * • 
'^ 
• ^ 
. ‘ ‘ - i ' _ *■ * ■ ■ 
^. r. -., 
s 
^ * * * ■ * ^ *.. 
r 
* •' * 
A I : V V ■ j. i.. ' * ■ ' 
: h V..; - C :. - i : • V '. ^ i 
'w 
> ‘ : 4 ' ■. I. 
, • i _ ^ « - • 
- / V : • ■ L E ■ 
t «9 3 
\. 
t 
. ' V > ■ ♦ ^ 
L E T T E R XIX 
V • • ' 
0 
The same so she Same. 
Woodville. 
■, .D 
CI E jeune fran9ois. 1 think I have pro ised to give you a description of him. I, ust tell you in the first place, that he bears most Surprising resemblance to you; his sea ires, tho’ masculine, have exactly the Same irn and expression; his stature is nearly the me as my edward’s, but his limbs have an r' 
ppearance of greater delicacy, without seem ig to deduct either from strength or ac ion. 
if I was not certain that you never had a rother, — but that is foolish, — and yet you are 3 like! you together put me in mind of those ines of Milton. 
Tor contemplation he, and valour form’d, 
Lor foftness she, and Sweet attractive grace. 
T will 
t 70 3 
I will tell you an odd incident though, that happened the day after his arrival. 
I could not you know pretend to describe unless I observed him with attention, and mj brother Smiled and !ooked arch, as who should say. Ah Henrietta, Henrietta! is that the me. thod you take to avail yourself of my caution: but I was resolved to disappoint him, and tah 
\ 
ing out your picture, I showed it to him, M asked if he could not discover in it a striking resemblance to his friend; he looked at, and dwelled upon it with Surprise, and turning to St, Alnais, asked him with a smi!e if he ever y a sister; being answered in the negative, le presented him with the picture, at the same time leading him to the ooking g!ass. H however continued gazing on the portrait; his colour changed, his head Sunk upon bis bosom, and he burst into tears. ' 
We were alarmed; my brother took his hand with an affectionate anxiety, and inquired the cause of his emotion: but inilead of answering his question, he asked me with an earnest Solicitude, if I was acquainted witl the person for whom that picture was drawn! 
Yes, sir, replied I, she is my intimate friend 
th( 
[ n ] 
the loveliest of women, girls I should rather say, for she is not yet eighteen, and her name is louisa Wyndham. 
louisa, too I cried he, and started, but again sighing he returned me the miniature and asked pardon for the Surprise and uneasi ness he had given us; but indeed, continued he, had you not named the original of that picture, I could almost have Sworn that my mother had Sat for it, and everything that brings that dear mother to my mind, awakens my re morse for the ungrateful return I made to her care and tenderness. 
Is not all this very extraordinary, my dear? but I suppose we must place the resemblance I mentioned among what philosophers call the Sports of nature. 
Ever and affectionately your 
H. Rochdale, 
I 
LET 
74 ]' 
» 
• ' ' » '. 
\ 
LET E R XX 
% 
miss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
dove brook, 
- - ^ 
A H, my Henrietta! your predictions are ' accomplished, and your poor friend is undone, 
-- -- A fatal accident has convinced me of my 
folly; but wherefore blame accident, since it was not that which inspired, but only opened my eyes upon the wretchedness of my Situation. 
This evening I took a walk with my maid into the fields, but had not gone many yards from the house when we Saw Lord Mordaunt musing and alone, and moving siowly towards us. He Said he intended us a visit, but turned and walked with me a piece on the path which I had taken. 
Is 
[ 73 ] 
In a short time we perceived riding across he field a young man, richly dressed, and in oxicated with liquor; on his approach, he hrew himself from his horse, and would have breed a kiss from me, whereupon my lord in' ' kindled, and closing his hand, gave him i stroke on the face, that obliged him to mea ure his length on the ground. 
All in a tremor, I walked on, rejoicing to lave escaped without insult to myself, or danger to my preserver; but my triumph was premature; the wretch quickly recovered and Dvertook us, and pouring forth a volley of blasphemous execrations, he drew a cutlass, ind made a pass at Lord Henry; I Screamed, and Scarcely retained a part of my senses: but the first thing I observed was the horrid ruffian groaning in the dust, while the blood flowed from his mouth and nostrils. 
I turned to my lord, and with a voice fee' ' articulate, inquired if he was hurt. Ah! 
I continued without attending his reply, why must I be the cause of precipitating yourself into danger? why should Such a life be risqued for my preservation? .1 would with transport 
E meet 
'/ 
j [ 74 ] 
i; 
meet death itself, interrupted he, to prote you frorn danger or instilt. 
What could he mean, Henrietta? ala what does it signify? the worst is, that I co strued all So favourable to myself, that I nu have looked, and Spoke a thousand indiscr tions. 
I trembled to Such a degree, that I w obliged to accept of his arm to Support me the house; and I thought that I felt him pre 
the hand he held gently to his Heart. -- -- - 
that heart! — why was I ever made acquaint with its value? 
When we were Seated in the house, I ot Served that his hand was wrapped in a cam brick handkerchief: I instantly took the alarm and approaching nearer, I Saw that it was bloody; I caught hold of my father’s arm, lookl see then, I cried — See what mischief I have oc casioned. He stepped up and uncovered thi hand. Do not be frightened, louisa, Said h Smiling, the wound is not mortal; ’tis, than! heaven, no more than a slight cut; go fetcl 
some of your famous Salve, and that applw 
bi 
t « 3 
by the healing' hands of a fair lady, will Soon Set matters to rights. 
I obeyed, tottering as I went, and Soon returned with the dressing, but as I washed the blood from his hand., a tear, which I vainly endeavoured to restrain, fell upon it; my cheeks glowed at the involuntary indiscretion: but 
r 
how was my confusion i ncreased, when with a •look expressive of the most pathetic tender tiess, he raised the dear hand to his lips, and kissed off the telltale drop. I would have given the world to recall it; my heart throbbed, I Sunk into a chair and burst into tears. 
Luckily my father had retired; how greatly must it have distressed him to have been witness to my folly I 
0 
Lord Henry Seated himself beside me, and solicitously inquired the reason of my tears. I could not answer him. — He arose, and taking both my hands, gazed with an inquisitive concern in my face, then Suddenly dropping them, he turned from me, and traversed the room. By this time I was tolerably composed, and pleaded my fright as an apology for my weak ness; but he is already (1 make no doubt) ace 
a quainted 
I 76 ] 
quainted with the real cause, though in pity he affects a total ignorance of the matter. 
My father just then entered, and I begged permission to retire. I ran up to my room, and locking the door, I threw myself on the bed, and gave a loose to my Sorrow. I afterwards ventured down to tea, but Lord mor daunt was gone; a fresh proof, that, of the goodness and delicacy of his heart, he would not increase my confusion by his presence. 
I 
Heavens I what will become of me? ’tis now too late to struggle in the toils; advise me, my Henrietta, pray for me, and pity your very unhappy friend 
L Wyndham. 
LET 
« 
77 ] 
LETTER XXI 
he,, 
Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
Woodville. 
9 
A LAS! my poor friend! you are under ceived then at last; you find after all that you have Something mortal about you. Truly, a most mortifying discovery!! woeful cafe yours, to be Sure! you love and are beloved by the most elegant, the most amiable of mankind and you cry, “what will become of me? — pity me, Henrietta!” I will not pity you,, louisa, 
Lord Mordaunt, I am positive, loves you, every circumstance confirms it; I am atso confident that he is not yet assured of your affection, and that he waits but for that discovery.. make an avowal of his own. 
AS' 
/ 
[ 7§ ] 
As for my brother’s favourite, whose approaches were announced as So very formidable, I don’t know what to make of him; he is beautiful to be Sure, beautiful as the Adonis, yearly lamented by the daughters of Sidon; but then his manners are utterly the reverse of his person; So distant. So ceremonious. So Sentimental, and all that, — and a male prude is what I distike above anything that is female. Yet this fellow has a heart, I assure you; aye, and a tender one too, as you shall hear, though, all the notice he takes of me Seems to put me upon the venerable and respectable rank of his grandmother. 
\ 
You know my fondness for birds, though I cannot confine them to cages; 1 therefore contrived a method of attracting them to me by a voluntary attachment. I used to strew crumbs of bread on the window of the garden | leave it open and retire to some dif ' tance, till the Sweet little Songsters had finished their meal. I approached nearer each time that I repeated my donation, till at last they became So tame as to bear me close beside j them. There was one robin in particular, that would peck out of my hand, and perch 
at times on my head and shoulders; I caught | 
it 
[ 79 1 
it one day, and tied a bit of silk round its leg, that I might know it from the rest, but here 
My notes must turn to tragic : 
On a day, as I stood with my brother and his friend at a window, we observed a kite hovering over a flock of Small birds; St. Alnais caught up a fowling piece, and ran out, we followed, he fired, and brought the felon to the ground; but Some of the harmless choristers shared in the Same fate, and among them, alas I was my favourite robin. 
I Screamed out that my bird was dead. I reproached St. Alnais with my loss, and he too joined in reproaching himself; he put it into his bosom to try to reinform it with warmth and lise; he lamented its death in the tenderest accents; nay, he actually shed a tear upon it. Though So many of mine had flowed on the occasion, I was yet astonished and affected at a degree of Sensibility So uncommon in a man. His trespass, and my misfortune were both, in that moment, Sorgot; and I blush to acknowledge, that I just then felt (for the first time) an impression of tenderness for a man, who has never shown the Smallest partiality 
I 8o I 
for me: nay, 1 affiire you, he even appeared Sorry for his momentary condeseension. Hia pride, no doubt, was hurt at the recolle6lion, that he had betrayed an interest in Such a trifle, as the distress of a female, or the death of her favourite; and he immediately withdrew himself to his former distance, and even a pitch beyond his usual stateliness. Proud wretch, but it does not now signify, for the alteration in my Sentiments was just as Sudden as that in his behaviour; it is effectual too, for I no longer have the Same good opinion of him, as formerly: before this,. I had aimed persuaded myself, that the distance, the frigid politeness of his air and manner, was perhaps owing to the little intercourse he has had with our Sex (as I hear he led quite a retired life before his entrance into the army). I can form a thousand excuses for the timid Swain who fears to offend, by even the common attentions : •which custom and good manners must dictate: but this is not the case with St. Alnais; he ^ knows how to pay them with the most elegant grace, but his pride disdains the condescensionj and reproaches him whenever he is guilty of it. — Let him, I care not! I am glad however that he ' has discovered himself in time, — in | 
time! — did I then acknowledge that I had al 
moll 
[ St ] 
most- -- -- no matter, — my heart is again 
my own. 
I 
% 
Folly I to thee, fantastic queen, 
I raisc the grateful lay. 
That yet one youth I have not Seen 
unfetter’d by thy Sway : 
♦ 
When late my heart at love’s alarm. 
Had near forever flown. 
Thy magic pow’r diffolv’d the charm; 
And bade — that pow’r to own. ' ' 
A noble form, a graceful mien. 
And animated air. 
An eye where genius Self was Seen With gentleness to share. 
I 
A polish’d mind, a wit untir’d,. 
In decent freedom bold. 
All, all against my peace conspir’d; 
And a lost heart foretold. 
But when the trembler, on the wing, 
Just bid a last adieu. 
When none could else assistance bring; 
To aid her. Folly flew. 
[ ] 
To mar ensnaring cupid’s plan, 
The queen her pow’r addressed. 
She dash’d with pride the charming man; And freed my captive breast. 
O then let none that pow’r despise. 
Of vulnerable heart. 
Since, while it blinds love’s cruel eyes. 
It also blunts his dart. 
« 
( 
I 
.; • J ■ • 
% r 
LET 
83 ] 
LETTER XXII 
Lord Mordaunt to Colonel Ashworth, 
at Bath. 
jersey Grove. 
ishe loves me, Charles! my louisa loves me! — I am indebted to accident for the charming confession: she has herself pronounced my happiness. 
This morning I went at Mr, wyndham’s desire, to breakfast with him at dove brook, but my impatience to see his lovely daughter, took me there of the earliest, for he had not yet left his chamber. So I strolled into the garden, and traversed the front walk, when turning, I perceived, in a summerhouse opposite, a woman Seated, with a book in her hand: it was louisa, and never did I See her appear So exquisitely charming. Her dress was negligent. 
C ^4 ] I 
V 
gent, but inexpressibly elegant; she held in 
.r 
her hand, a recent and very affecting little poem, entitled, Edwin and Emma; and in the other a handkerchief, that caught the precious tears as they fell. 
At last she appeared quite overcome, and unable to proceed, the book dropped from her hand, and she Suddenly exclaimed, — Yes, cruel ’ father! you must be obeyed, and emma’s hapless fate shall be that of the equally wretched louisa! I 
She then rose, but Seeing me standing jud opposite, she gave a short Scream, and Sank 
down again, half fainting on the seat. 
* 
r' 
I threw myself at her feet, I entreated for giveness, and made a thousand apologies for jny intrusion. She paid not the least attention to what I was saying, but clasping her hands in an agony, ’tis past, she cried, and my indiscretion has betrayed the Secret, which I would have died rather than voluntarily reveal. rise, my lord, continued she, with an air of dignity, you are already apprized of my weakness; you pity it too, (for she observed 
[ «5 I 
Served my concern), and you ar too generous to repay with contempt, an accidental confession of my tenderness for you. 
For me! — for me! — I exclaimed! — gracious heaven! can it be possible? do I indeed live to Such happiness, Such rapture? — She could not now retract the confession she had already made, and my vows of gratitude, and never ending love obtained a confirmation of it; for till she again repeated the delightful assurance, I could not bring myself to believe that my happiness was real. 
/ 
O Charles, had you Seen her at that transporting moment, her tears, her blushes, the delicate tenderness that animated her whole frame I -- -- 1 will fly to my father, my prayers, 
my importunities shall obtain his content. But what would become of me, in case. of a refusal I— — why apply to you ^ you have never loved, and therefore knows not how to make allowance for the ardour, the Impatience of a lover, -- why are you not in love, Charles? 
You 
[ 86 ] 
You know I have at my own dispofal, clear 6001. a year, the bequest of my late uncle Stanemore; might we not — But alas! — a father’s disapproving frown — perhaps his curse! — horrid I — I know not what to resolve on I 
Your 
H. Mordaunt. 
I 
I 
r 
> 
j 
I 
i 
i 
I 
L E TT 
87 ] 
LETTER XXIII 
The same to the same. 
dove brook. 
O Charles! — I am undone 1^ -- -- -- -- wild with 
grief 1 with despair!! — beloved of my soul — she is ill! dying! — and will not See me I — will not permit me to have the con Sola t ion of expiring beside her !• — Something extraordinary must be in the cafe, some villain has traduced me! — let me but know? let me but find him I — I will tear out his treacherous heart! 
Yet, O gracious heaven 1 whatever must be the fate of this unhappy wretch. Spare, Spare my louisa 1^ — Spare the dearest, the loveliest, the most finished of your works! 
What can be the meaning of her refusing me admittance ^ I am distracted with the vat 

rlety of my conjectures on the occasion I Her father too is ignorant of the cause of her 111- 
nefs[ 
[ ] 
nefs, and turns with detestation from the offer of comfort! 
My Sister too was here, and has Seen her, but she was then delirious, and as Soon as she came to her senses, she desired that none but her maid might be permitted to attend her, ske will not even allow a physician to be called in. 
I have never lest dove brook, nor tasted any kind: of nourishment, since the news of her illness reached me, - — I am one moment - stiipified, and the next frantic with my Sorrows! If she dies— —! — I will not, — I cannot Survive her! — I can write no more, my head Swims !■ — my hand trembles! — • 
t 
Adieu,,. 
H. mordaunti. 
/. 
LET 
/ 
% 
89 ] 
LETTER XXIV 
* 
The Same to the Same. 
jersey Grove. 
JL I S as I suspected, — she has been deceived into a belief that I was unworthy of her tenderness, and her gentle heart Sunk under the shock. 
The day after I wrote my last, when I went to her antechamber, to learn some tidings, I was told that she‘had just then falen into a fine resreshing stumber; I beckoned her maid to approach, and putting a purse into her, hand, requested she would let me have a sight of her mistress; she rejected the money, but admitted me upon a promise of making no noise, 
I kneeled 
[ 90 ] 
I kneeled down by the side of the bed, and gazed a while upon the steeping angel, the roses were withdrawn from her cheeks, and an affecting languor Succeeded throughout her countenance; she Seemed, though asteep, to be in great agitation, her. bosom heaved with sighs, and the tears stole gently. from between their silver covering, and moistened all the pillow. 
My heart was wrung with anguish, I laid my cheek close to hers, and mingled ours tears together. 
- - -*■ 
I rose at last; and was going to retire, when I espied a paper that had fallen from her hand on the floor, it lay open, and my name was Subscribed, I eagerly caught it up; the writing might have been easily mistaken for mine, but I instantly knew it to be that of Sir Georg Hastings; it was directed to miss Wyndhaw> 
and the contents w’ere as follows— — — 
’ ■ / 
I conceal anything from a perlbn, who constitutes a principal part of my existence? — no, I will not conceal it I 
Know 
[ 91 i 
Know then, my angel, that I once loved a young creature, to passion, as I then thought, but my present feelings convince me, that my love for her, compared to that which attaches me to you, was but as a drop to the ocean, or an hour to eternity. 
In brief — after reciprocal and repeated engagements, she jilted, and betrayed me; ex asperated to the height by Such a proof of female perfidy, I made a vow, and confirmed it by many fearful execrations, that I never would marry. Ah, rash, and inconsiderate! I little thought what was then before me, and am now tempted, like sampspn, to break all these cords in Sunder; yet Sure, all the civil or matrimonial institutions that ever were framed, cannot make me more firmly yours than I am already; all that I am, all that I have is yours without reserve. 
I am too much distracted at this time to resolve upon anything, and therefore beseech you to meet me at Seven this evening, at the far end of the Bird walk; where, whatever you prescribe whatever you shall be pleased 
[ 92 ] 
to dictate, shall be as the laws of the Medej; and Persians to your 
1 
H. Mordaunt. ‘ 
1 
As Soon as I had perused this infernal Scroll, ' 
I left the chamber, and hurried out in Search I 
! 
of the villain who had forged it; nor know I to what lengths my passion might have carried me, but God had happily taken my vengeance into his own hands. 
Having sought him in vain through all th i fields and gardens, I Spied a crowd in a lawn that led to the next town, and thither I hall cned to enqiiire after him. 
The throng gave way to my approach, bat judge of my amazement, when I beheld Sit George, pale, bloody, groaning, and stretched upon the earth, without power of Speed or motion. 
As I earnestly demanded how this came to pass, a bold blunt looking man, with a budget at his back, came up and addressed me. 
Wh^ 
[ 93 ] 
Why, Lord Harry, says he, I didn’t mean 0 anger you, because as how, you’ve a good word in every poor body’s mouth; but had he nade as free with a girl of your honour’s, as 
le wanted to do with my pretty Gatty, me 
\ 
you could have done little less vor him han I did. 
I 
You must know then, that about an hour igone, as my wife and I was walking the road, hat open to every honest Englishman, with )ut crossing fence or style, I misted a plate of jewter, and desired Gatty to hold onward, while I went back in Search. Before I could 
/• • ^ 
ind ur howfomever, methought I heard Gatty jive a Squeal, and then a louder, and again a ouder; So I hurried back at top Speed, and : aught this here gemi’man wrestling a fall with ny wife! — My poor Gatty indeed sought it 'airly, and left the mark of every nail she had in his face. 
It was then, I confess, I laid on him with might and main, and Spared neither head nor hide, till I left him, just as you see him. 
My 
t 94 ] 
My honest friend. Said I, you have paid him his full wages, and he merited the whole; all my concern is, that you have brought yourself into trouble, and will be arraigned for his murder, as I think he cannot Survive. 
0 never fear, master, cried the homely jolly tinker, the devil will never die by the fide i of a ditch, as the saying is. Sbobs! ifliisj majesty, heaven bless him, would use rav Gatty So, I would be tempted to sit himwirt : as good a trimming as the best taylor at court could raeasure or make up. 
A number of Lady jersey’s Servants W now joined the crowd. So I ordered one to tak ’ a horse and ride off immediately for a Surgeon, and desired the rest to take up our errant and misadventurous knight, and convey him to the next inn, i 
t 
1 
! 
f 
L 
1 then requested the gallant tinker to introduce me to his Gatty, which he did with a proud pleasure, when taking out my purse, I presented it to her, as an acknowledgment of. her virtue, and a reward for her chastity; and returning instantly to dove brook, I threw 
myfelt' 
I 95 ] 
myself at Mr. wyndham’s feet, confessed my passion for his daughter, told him of the arts that had been practised against us, showed him Sir george’s letter, informed him of his tragic adventure, and besought him to prevail on his louisa to allow me a moment’s hearing. 
The old gentleman embraced me with tears, and departed on his commission; after a while he returned, and offered to introduce me. 
When I entered the chamber she was sitting up in her bed. Supported by pillows, but very pale and languid, notwithstanding a Smile of chearfulness, which she endeavoured to assume. 
On my approach, she raised her hands in a Sweetly jocular, but petitioning attitude, and prayed me to pardon her for having believed it possible that I Could act dishonourably in any particular. But, continued she, (blushing) 1 now find myself So delightsully consoled by the detection of my error, that I no longer regret the Sufferings it occasioned. 
My 
[ 96 ] 
My father has acquainted me with the catastrophe of Sir George. I heartily rejoice that it was not your hand which administered the reward of his perfidy. 
Then you see, my dear Charles, that my affairs once more begin to wear a Smiling aspect; and my louisa is, if possible, dearer than ever to my heart; she continues to mend apace, and I hope Soon to Subscribe myself your happy friend. 
• II Mordaunt 
/ 

V 
N 
h E T 
\ 
s7 ] 
LETTER XXV 
miss Wyndham to miss r‘ochdale. 
dove brook. 
it\.t’last, my dear Henrietta, I am entirely recovered from my short but very Severe indisposition, with the particulars of which you are 
already acquainted, hut my present happiness, though incomplete and precarious, yet it compensates in a measure for all my former Suffering. My Harry loves me, I am dear to his heart, to that of his sister, and my father has conditionally approved of our affection. But ah. Lord Granville! there, — there I am still vulnerable — ’tis Sure, he never will, he never can consent; and it is also certain that though I were this moment cut off from every hope, I yet could never cease to love my amiable Harry! 
V O did 
t 98 ] 
0 did you know !■ — were you like me acquainted with his excellence I — you would pity, but could not blame me: his disposition, his Sentiments, ah, my Harriet! — never, never Sure was such a heart as his. 
1 lately read (Said my father to him one day) a French author, who attempts to demonstrate that all our friendships and affesii 
\ 
ons, and even the boasted virtues of generosity, and So forth, have their original growth, and" expansion in self-love. Tell me, my dear friend? I ask not your Sage opinion, but your genuine and Sweet feelings on this Subjest, where it is So boldly affirmed, that there is no Such thing in the love of another? 
That guilt, and every Species of vice, should have the foundation in felj love, I can evidently conceive; and am convinced that neither Satan, nor Adam, nor any other creature would ever have lapsed, had it not come to pass through fylflove, and self weening, that the love of Self also can produce hatred to others. Such as envy, disgust, malice, and all other malignant passions; it is the natural process and procedure of things. But that love to ourselves should beget in us the love 
[ 99 1 
'another; that one and the Same cause should "oduce consequences So contrasted, So adverse, irreconcilable as love and hatred, bounte isness and grudging, rancour and benigni and the like opposite offspring of heaven id hell; I might be as rationally persuaded lat wolves may yean lambs, that the vulture lay bring forth the dove, or the branches of le crab tree bend beneath the clusters of the rape. — But what do you think of this doc 'ine? 
I apprehend, my dear Sir, replied Lord lordaunt, that the matter in debate has no ling to do with argument. I suppose a man orn blind, all the descriptions, and definitions I the world will never Supply him with a sin le idea either of the beauty or benefit of ght. Nay he will argue with you against its dstence, and obstinately insist that there is o .Such thing in nature; but shall his blind itiocinations have any weight with me against be existence of that light which guides my; eps, which illuminates my sight, whose com 
Drts I feel, and whose blessings I enjoy. 
/ 
Now love is to the human Soul, what light 5 to the body, il anim ates, pervades, cheers. 
. C 100 3 
directs the ways of his Spirit, and carries hiir forth in the benevolence of kindly offices tc others, — when he cannot relieve, he grieves with the afflicted, he rejoices in the happiness of all who are happy, and thereby participates in the bleffedness of all the living. 
Here then, it may be inquired, how love, which is the author, the blessing and joy of the universe, should come to be a matter of affliction or pain? — But the truth is, that love never was a cause of displeasure or. Suffering to any creature; it cannot be too fond, it cannot be too intense, it is the heaven of God himself, and consequently of all his intelligent resemblances. But in beings of a mixed nature, w here Spirit and body are So intimately united, each may have its distinct interest, and the body may attract its more refined companion to the grosser share of its own propensities, and thus the first generous emotions of what we flatteringly entitled love, may be perverted to a Selfish passion, and consequently Subjected to all the jealousies, ravings, and pangs of which lovers complain, and thus love and Selfishness maybe blended together like two colours Into one mass, and yet remain in their respesive 
natures 
[ 101 I 
natures eternally opposite, and eternally distinct. 
V 
Love in its own nature is of necessity its own reward; it as Surely produces happineis as fire produces light; and I persuade myself that, when we are divested ot these partial and impassioned organs, that impel us So forcibly from our bliss, to our bane, we shall 
V 
find that love among the celestials is merely an action, and in no fense a passion : an action as it is in God of infinite energy, bearing its bliss within itself, and beaming without bounds in beneficence and benignity upon all creatures. 
What think you of this, ray Henrietta, are not these noble, are; they not heavenly Sentiments? 
I have been since my recovery to visit my pensioner,, poor Mrs. Chalmers; her health is visibly declining. I wish she was more communicative; there is undoubtedly Something in her history with which she has not yet acquainted me, nay Something I fancy which must be very extraordinary. 
wlpn 
E 102 I 
When I told my father of her illness, hs proposed going to see her himself, and Speaking some matter of comfort to her. She had not Seen him before. So I thought it neceffa ly to go first, and prepare her for his coming, 
I told her who it was that waited for admit tance> and what was the intention of his visitj she joyfully acquiesced and Sat up in her bed to receive him. 
■ He entered, — but the moment she cast bet eyes on his face, she uttered a loud, and hearh piercing shriek, and fell back in violent convulsions.; my father retired immediately, and my assistance with some restoratives, with disticulty brought her to her senses: as Soon as I Saw she was Sufficiently recovered, I ventured to ask the reason of her Sudden and alarming fit. 
That gentleman — she wildly replied, did ' you not Say he was your father — So he is, my dear Mrs. Chalmers. — No, no I she cried, in a shrill and frantic tone, it cannot, it must not be, that would indeed be a refinement upon wretchedness, upon the intenseness of my punishment 1 — What! the man whom I have so greatly, so irreparably injured, and his daughter, his angel daughter has preserved the lives 
of 
C t03 ] 
of myself and my little ones. — Great God! there wanted but that to sill up the measure of impending judgement! — but then mercy is Said to exalt itself on the tallest grovyth of guiltj provided penitence lies weeping in the dust beneath its stroke! 
0 the years 1 the year of anguish that I have passed'! — may they expiate! — gracious heaven! — may they have blotted out the re rnembtatice of my criiiies 1 
Tears here came to her relies, they flowed plenteoussy, and she appeared much easier, but I feared to increase her disorder by any further questions. 
1 asked my father is he had ever before Seen 
or been acquainted with her? but he tells me 
not, and that he does not know of any female 
living who could have done him the injury 
she mentions. Mighty odd and mysterious all this I: 
She has been (at her own desire) very much alone these two days past. I don’t know how she has employed her time during that period; but she now appears much more compdsed 
- f L a n 
[ I 
than before, and Seems to wait with tranquillity and a degree of pleasure, the awful event that shall consign her to eternity. 
She would hear of no physician but a mental one. 1 do not think she can live many days, but I have great reason to hope that her latter end will be that of the righteous. O how fervently when our own time is at hand, shall we all join in that important prayer. In the hour of death, and in the day of judgement, good Lord deliver us, 
She is worse, 1 am called upon — 
Adieu, your L 'Wyndham. 
\ 
LETI 
105 J 
LETTER XXVI 
The same to the Same. 
dove brook. 
\ LAS! my dear, she is gone 1 — poor Mrs. Chalmers is no more 1 She Sent this morning again, to request my presence. I went, and as I approached the bed, she raised her hands and eyes to heaven, — I Saw her intention, and kneeled to receive her blessing. She gave it in a most awful, and affecting manner, I then rose, and Seated myself beside her. My mis tress, she cried, I have been faulty, dreadfully so indeed; wretchedness too has been the inseparable companion of my guilt; but'my prayers, my tears have at length prevailed for pardon, and I look forward to my, dissolution, as the mariner to his port; the wished for hour is at length arrived, all Spent and overwearied I have at length reached the goal, but blelted is the length of misery that closes in virtue. -- 
F 5 Here 
E io ] 
Here she paused, and desired that her chilli dren might be called, — they came; — she embraced and blessed them by turns, and leaning back in the bed, she gave a deep sigh and expired. 
My father now entered,, and hurried me away from this leene of distress: he has taken upon himself the care of her interment, — and promises a provision for the dear little orphans, she has left behind. 
I Sorgot to tell you, that about an hour before her death, she took from her bosom t i packet, and presented it to me it was Sealed and directed to the Earl of jersey; and she requested that it might be delivered into his own hands, immediately on his return.. I wonder > what acquaintance she could have contrafied with the Earl; but her whole conduct for these few days past has been to me an inex. ylicable enigma. 
\ 
\ 
L E 
C 107 1 
C 
LETTER XXVII 
miss Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
Woodville. 
ES, my dear louisa, I do indeed admire him, and believe there is but one man in the world, who can challenge any Sort of comparison with him — Who Is that pray? Edward pi no; Edward is not So handsome, nothing near so accomplished, and I am afraid, not altogether So good, though better than nine-tenths of the more virtuous half of his Sex. He bears about the Same proportion to Lord Mordaunt, that I do to you, my dear. — Who then can it be? — you would never guess. St. Alnais? — impossible; — the proud, the insensible, the — Softly, Softly child; 1 once Said as much myself, to be Sure, but one may happen to be mistaken 
s io ] 
taken you know; and poor St. Alnais is now acquitted of everything, but a foolish penchant, for a little giddy brained girl, who would rather think it was her want of vanity, than lack of discernment, that made her so long misinterpret his conduct. 
s 
You must know, I have got a maid, the most tenderhearted in the world. Sensible of merit too I assure you. She admired St. Ak nais prodigiousty, — for certain the poor gentleman was in love, and love is a Sad thing! It made her heart ache, soit did, to See how dismal he looked of late; then fixing her eyes, upon me, — she wondered' in her heart, how any young lady could be So cruel as to take no notice, and keep never minding, when so Sweet a gentleman was in Such a piteous taking. 
I affected for Some time, to disregard her silly chat; but at last, after a little.encourage ment, she ventured to disclose the important Stcret, with which she had for sometime laboured. St. Alnais hao stolen from her a lock ' of my hair, with which she was marking my handkerchiefs, and slipped it sunseen as he 
tnought) 
C IC'P I 
thought) into his bosom. She could have erred, So she could, to See one So pretty, so truehearted; and especially when she Saw him afterward kissing it in a corner, with the tears in his eyes, when he did not think that any one was looking, and Sure, when a poor dead lock of hair was Such a comfort to him, he must be the most virtuous and constantest of lovers. 
This intelligence (though I did not entirely believe it) sunk deeper in my mind than P chose to discover to my informer. I appeared to take no notice, till an accident convinoed. me of the truth. 
Edward obtained from my father, a promise of taking me this winter to London: and he and St. Alnais are gone to prepare a house, and everything for our reception. The morning, of their departure I rose earlier than usual, to make breakfast for the travellers, and entering the parlour, I Saw St. Alnais, alone and standing at the far end of the room, with his face turned to the window. He did not perceive my entrance, but Seemed very intent upon Something he held in his hand; I was 
curious 
: [ HO ]■ 
curious to know what it could be, and stealing cautiousty forward, judge of my Surprise,, 
my confusion, and my joy, when I beheld that very lock he had stolen from Barbara, twisted round his fingers, and alternately pressed it to his lips and his bosom. 
My heart fluttered with a pleasing emotion,, r held in my breath for fear of interrupting him; but never once considered how foolish I should look, at being caught in that situation. 
J 
■ - ■ 
He returned it at last to its hiding place; and raising his head, and feeing me standing almost beside him, his face was instantly covered with blushes, he bowed with a dissident and confused respect; and hesitatingly stammered out the compliments of the morning. 
I hope his own embarrastinent prevented' his taking any notice of mine I could think of nothing to Say in ray excuse; I endeavoured not to appear conscioiis, yet could not acquire courage to pretend ignorance; the more I attempted to extricate myself, the more 
my 
t in ] 
fyyy presence of mind forsook me : and if 1 made any apology for my intrusion, or at h tempted to rally him on his situation, I did it with So bad a grace, that I am ready to beat myself every time I reflect on the awkward figure I made. 
I wish you could assist me at finding our the reason of the silence, the reserve, and the extreme distance of his behaviour; I will tell you to what I have myself at times ascribed it. St. alnais’s fortune is Small, my father’s, as you know, is princely, may not this consideration have prevented him from' avowing his passion? — Ah! if I was assured that it was so! — I would be — I was almost going to Say, I would be tempted to Speak first. But no,. Spite of the confidence my vivacity inspires, I fear there is no admissibie: method for a maiden to say, ‘‘ I love -- But then, this amiable man! — has he not a title to my gratitude, to my heart? Has he not Saved the life of my brother? — My mother esteems him for his virtues, and adores him as the preserver of her child. I need make no mention of my brother’s attachment; 
I have already told you, they Seem to live 
but 
[ ri J 
I 
but in and for each other. In future, however, I may hope, that he will transfer a portion of that attachment to 
% 
Your 
I 
H. Rochdals. 
F 
I _ 
J 
, 4 
i 
/ 
I 
\ ’. 
'» 
i 
LETI 

[ h3 I 
/ 
\ * 
LETTER xxvm. r 
/ 
I 
I 
miss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
I 
dove brook. 
E S, you are indeed happy, my Henrietta; long, long may you continue So, whatever becomes of your wretched friend 1 
My heart has long foreboded that I was not 
r 
born to joy, — too faithfully has it prophesied, — ^ but I am now resigned, I Submit without mur 
* 
to ray fate. 
I y 
A few nights ago, I had the most extraordinary dream that you can imagine. I thought I was Sitting with Lord Mordaunt, when the Earl of .Dranville entered; he was accompanied by Sir George Hastings, who just pointed to us with a Smile of triumphant malice, 
and 
t ” 4 3 
and retired; the earl approached his Son with a menacing air; and with a voice Scarce ar ticiilate through fury, exclaimed, Wretch! what is this that you have done? but think not to escape my just resentment, your Syren too shall dearly pay for her treachery and presumption; then stamping with his foot, a number of armed men entered; here, continued he, take this Circe hence, and convey her where neither I nor my infatuated Son shall ever more behold her. 
I Screamed aloud at the dreadful Sentence; my Harry started up, and caught me in his arms; but they approached, and were proceeding to tear us asunder, when Suddenly the air grew dark, the room shook, as with an earthquake, the russians vanished, and the earl stood trembling beside us; then looking up, I beheld the ceiling open, and my mother descend, all bright and beauteous, as I have often Seen her in former dreams. 
She approached towards the earl, and whispered Something in his ear; then turning to me, she embraced me, and joining my hand t^ith that of Lord Mordaunt, she raised her 
eyes 
[ 115 ] 
eyes to heaven, and implored a blessing on our heads; and now, my child, continued she, ’tis BO longer an illusion that you behold, ’tis^ your own, your living mother, never nwe to be parted from the darling of her affections. 
She then presented us: to the earl. Here, she cried, you would have, divided two hearts that were formed by heaven for each other; you have even opposed your own happiness, your own desires, but you are blessed in spite of yourself, for the Sake of this amiable pair, you are blessed; let it then be the future study of your life to deserve, and be grateful for the mercies you have experienced. — This is all; my joy, my transport was So great, that! awoke. 
Gn this strange dream was I rumlnatingj when Lord Henry Sent in his name. As he entered, I was shocked and terrified at the impression of grief and agitation that was visible in his countenance, and shook his whole frame; he perceived my emotion, he took my hand, and looked with a mournful tenderness in my face; he attempted to Speak, but could 
not. 
[ n6 ] 
not, and taking a paper from his pocket, he presented me with it, and turned aside to hide his tears. 
It was a letter from Lord Granville; I perused it trembling. -- -- This inhuman father, 
my Henrietta! he tells him he is informed of his intrigue, that he is aware of its consequences, and therefore desires he may instantly attend him; and think no more of the little artful glpsy, whose allurements would betray him to a breach of duty. 
Alas! how little is he acquainted with my heart! but I will convince him of the injustice of his epithets! Am I then a traitress? have I attempted to Seduce my Harry from his duty? O witness for me heaven, I would die rather than be the means of his acting in any respect unworthy of him; yet hard, very hard was the struggle; had you known how I was tempted, you would have trembled for me. 
With an attitude, and accent of the most endearing Supplication, he begged I would consent to become his wife, in the presence 
• oi 
[ n7 3 
of my father, and the countess of jersey. He told me he was posteffed of 600 1. a year, independent of his father, and that with this provision, we might be happy in each other’s Society and endearments. 
f 
He painted (ah! in what Seducing colours) the charms, the tranquil delights of a rural retirement, enlivened by the transports of connubial happiness, when preceded and continued by a union of hearts. His eyes too! — ah Henrietta! — but mine Scarcely dared to meet their fascinating glances. I still tremble to think how nearly his too persuasive elo <juence had overcome my resolution. 
Alas! he little knows how much that resolution, of which he complains, has cost me! but virtue at last rose Superior to frailty, if it is frailty to love the most lovely of his Sex. 
I opposed his arguments with all the sirm ness of which I was mistress. What, Said I, shall I then bring down a father’s cursed, where I would die to accumulate every blessing? O never, never! that would indeed be a baseness 

[ ii ] 
r»ess unworthy of my harry’s louisa. I call heaven to witness, continued I, kneeling, of the vows I here make; though no arguments, no Sophistry shall ever prevail with me to accept your hand, unaccompanied by the Sanction of your father’s consent; yet neither shall any earthly consideration bribe or compel me to become the wife of another. 
He was greatly affected, he kneeled down beside me. I will strive, my angel, he cried, to imitate your shining example; farewell then, my only, my ever loved! — At that heart breaking word, I could no longer sup port the appearance of my heroism; but re dining my head on his shoulder, I burst into a violent fit of weeping. He too melted into tears; and we continued Some time in that mourning attitude. At last I arose, and endeavoured to compose mysels. Go then, my Harry, I cried, since you must depart, let it be while I have strength left to bid you adieu. • He obeyed, sighing deeply; his eyes turned back, till he was out of sight. 
X 
Fare 
* 
119 ] 
Farewell, my beloved friend, will you not now acknowledge me an object of compassion? Ah, did you know how my heart is torn you would weep over the Sorrows of your unhappy 
i 
L Wyndham. 
♦ 
LET 
/ 
[ ] 
av ‘ 
LETTER XXIX 
The countess of Jersey to miss Walpole. 
jersey Grove. 
TT 
xjl E is gone! — my brother, my friend, my ' ' amiable companion, he has left me, my dear 
Emily I 
/ 
That wretch, Hastings, it is he that has fomented all this mischief! 
As Soon as he was able to leave his bed, he hastened to London, and calling on my fathen informed him of the passion that his Son entertained for our dear louisa; but painted it as no other than a boyish, and romantic attachment, easily to be overruled by the authority of a parent, and its object a rustic of mean birth, Some beauty, great art, but no fortune. 
la 
C I 
In the first transports of his rage at this intelligence, he wrote a reproachful, and me,, letter to his Son, with peremptory orders to prepare immediately to attend him, and never to think of this louisa any more. 
Ah Emily, how vain, and how heartrending are the commands of parents, when il is not in the power of children to obey 1 
/ 
When he was about to attend his father’s pleasure, he waited on louisa, he showed her the earl’s letter, he urged the impossibility of ever obtaining his consent, and whth all the pathetic rhetoric of an adored, kneeling, pleading, weeping lover. Solicited her acceptance of his hand and yearly independence; but he kneeled, wept, and pleaded in vain; the generous maid, rejected his Suit, with a 
\ 4 
dignity of Sentiment peculiar to himself, and 
• -- -1 am interrupted, ^ — a packet, — ah! ’tis 
from my lord, my husband- -- -- -- -- -- me peruse 
it. — 
He is cdming, my Emily! but not unaccompanied; his return restores to our arms 
G an 
[ T 22 ] 
an aunt, a gem of women; I am at liberty to give you the particulars of her very affecting stay, but to make them the more dntelligible to you, I must begin with a sketch of thelifc and character of the late earl of jersey. 
He was .(though the Sather of my Amiable husband) a man of b%h'passions, warm in his friendship, but equally implacable in his re fentraents. His lady died in the twenty-fifth year of her age, my dear lord was their onij Surviving offspring, and possessed all the gen stleness and Sensibility of his mother, unallayed by the Itaughty and vindictive Spirit of his fa 
• 
The earl had an only sister younger than himfeir, finely accomplished, and of singular beauty, with a heart as estimable as her pe fon was lovely. 
» - T t *' 
The young earl of Arundel Saw, and loved her, and waited on her brother with an offer of his hand and fortune, but was rejected on account of a quarrel, that had long subsifted between the families. 
The 
C 123 ] 
The lovers, though prevented from Seeing each other, kept up a regular correspondence [y letter, but were at last detected by the earl, who was So incensed at his sister’s acti 

ing contrary to his injunctions, that he determined to carry her to France, bury her in a convent, and take Such farther precautions as should effectually prevent their being ever united. 
For this purpose he acquainted her that his affairs called him immediately into Paris, and that she must prepare to accompany him; she obeyed, unsufpicious of the cruel intention of his journey, and was constrained to depart without ever bidding adieu to her lover. 
He was quickly apprized of her departure, he suspected the deep designing heart of her brother, he trembled for his mistress, and determined to rescue her or perish in the attempt; and embarking for Calais, he arrived there the next day after the earl and his sister had left it. 
'•*«. 
Meanwhile the unhappy unsuspecting lady, bad nearly reached the place of her destina 
G 2 tion. 
I 124 ] 
tion. But in passing through a forest, they .were attacked by a troop of banditti, their attendants, massacred, and the earl himself left for dead, on the field, while six of the russians carried off the lady. screaming^for help, though despairing to find it, when her lover, who had inquired the road through which they had travelled, came happily to her assistance at this alarming crisis: he instantly stew upon the villains, and Seconded by his attendants, Soon laid them dead at 'his feet; but who can describe his transports, when he found that it was his Louisa herself, whom he had rescued from their fury. They embraced, he Seated her beside him, and they rode together to the ' next inn, procured a .post carriage, and proceeded to Paris. 
There they learned that the earl had been discovered by Some peasants of the country, i 
and carried to the hotel de -- -- -- -- --, when his 
wounds were dressed, and he was in a fair way of .recovery. 
i 
i 
The lovers now’ dreaded being again pursued and Separated, .and the earl availed himfelfof; this plea to persuade his beloved to an union) j 
which I 
[ 1z5 ] 
which would put it past the power of her implacable brother to sever them. Their hand.? were joined, and' they retireff to the South of France; while the earl of jersey, weary of at fruitless Search for his sister, returned to England, after an absence of three years; 
His fon, though but then in his fourteenth" year, was immediately provided with a tutor, and Sent abroad on his tour, and the earl was constrained to Seek in the Society of strangers 
r 
a consolation for the loss of those connexions of which he had voluntarily deprived himself. 
Still however he felt he was unhappy. his rank and large fortune procured him respect, but his overbearing disposition prevented him from acquiring a single friend, and he lived for Several years in astate of alternate dissipation and gloomy restlesshess. 
Lord Granville was just then returned from' France, whither he had carried my mother for the recovery of her health, and I was takejs home from School on the occasion. 
Though' 
[ 126 ]. 
0 • 
Though I had not been yet introduced into pliblic, I frequently accompanied my mother 
A 
to the theatre. One night at the tragedy of f.dvvard and Klionora, I was So very much affected, and Sobbed So violently, that my mother w’as obliged to take me away. Lord jersey had been Seated in the next box, and observed my emotion with pleasure; he requested 
permission to take care of me home, and 
^. * 
declared he should have rriore pleasure in the artless effusions of So young, and So feeling a heart, than the poet however elegant or af 
w ‘ * 
fectina could bestow. 
< 
My mother, who was acquainted with his name and quality, consented; my father received him with politeness and acknowledgment, and gave him a general invitation to his house. From that time forward their acquaintance improved into intimacy and ripened into a kind of friendship, but I was the particular favourite, and he at last proposed to my father a union between their families, by my marriage with bis Son. 
I had 
i[ 
[ ] 
had often heard the earl talk In raptur.esi of him, and I formed him to my fancy as de serving his encomiums. I was not disappoim 
y 
ed in my expectations, but rather Surprised at Ending them exceeded, for he returned the most amiable and accomplished of any of his. Sex that ever I had Seen; and I had the pleasure to find that he received the commands of 
* V 
his father with a transport as great as it was.. novel on the like occasion. 
* f 
We were united, and lived for six years in the greatest harmony, and loved with the greatest tenderness, when the each was Seized with ayiolent disorder In his stomacsi, supposed to be the gout, which baffled the skill of the 
most eminent physicians. He continued to 
.* * ' 
languish under it for upwards of a year, and at last finding his end approach; he acquainted his Son privately of all the particulars I have ■ already related respecting Lis sister, and thenf. proceeded. 
About. Sour years after my return fromv; France, I was travelling through: a dreary part of the country, when in passing a cottage I thought'i heard the sound of voices in the 
bitterest 
[ ia ] 
bitterest distress; I ordered the carriage to stop, I listened with attention, I alighted, and entering this habitation of wretchedness, I beheld (stretched on a bed of straw) a woman, to all appearance, in the agonies of death, while three half famished children Surrounded their dying mother, and wrung my heart with their clamours. 
I ordered one of my Servants to ride off for assistance and Some matter of nourishment, while I endeavoured to appease the children by promises of Speedy Subsistence. 
✓ 
nssie Servant Soon returned, accompanied with a woman, .with Some cakes and cordials. We railed our patient in the bed, and cauti ousty administered the restoring draugl.t. In a little time it brought her to herself, and itie thanked and blelted me in terms that demonstrated her having been acquainted with much better days; the children too had Satisfied the cravings of hunger, and as the next town was not far off, I proposed bringing her thither; she assented, we lifted her gently into the carriage, I followed with the children, and 
travelling 
( 
[ 129 ] 
travelling at an easy rate, we Soon reached"', the inn. 
When I Intimated a desire of being acquainted with those parts of her history which prudence did not oblige her to conceal; Alas I sir, she replied, there is nothing entertaining in my unhappy story, ’tis nothing more than a narrative of the most shocking crimes, attended by the deepest contrition and re inorse. 
L ama native of France, my mother died vffiile 1 was an infant, and as Soon as I became capable of instruction, my father placed me at a convent, and continued to visit and Supply me with the conveniences of life till I sixteen, when I received an account of his. death. 
As he was an officer under the crown, all my means of Subsistence ceased with his life; 
I was an orphan, I was desolate, and the Superior constrained me to depart with very little ceremony. 
Gs Thin 
[ HO 1 
Thus was I thrown upon the mercy of a world, of which I had yet Scarcely formed an idea; I difposed of all my little ornaments - that were merchantable, tied the rest in a handkerchief, and with tearful eyes, and a heavy heart. Set out without knowing whither to direct my dreary steps. 
1 had the good fortune to be beloved by most of the young ladies who boarded at the convent. They followed me weeping, and wc vere just taking our last farewell, when overcome by the violent agitation of my Spirits, I Swooned away in their arms. 
, 1' * 
When I recovered, I found myself Seated 
on a bank, my companions in tears around me, and by my side a young lady of exquisite beauty, who assisted to Support me, and Seemed greatly affected by my situation. She had been passing in her carriage at the time of my fainting, and feeing me in distress, ordered the coach to stop, came out, and inquired the cause of So much lamenting; one of the la dies, who had been particularly attached to me, gave her a short and pathetic account of my story. It was Sufficient to her that I was 
innocent,. 
V 131 T 
innocent, and an object of'compassion, (o in, -/ terest her in my favour; she told me, if 1; pleased, that she would take me along with 
her, and that I should attend and be her com 
\ 
Her goodness overpowered me, I dropped on my knees, and Seizing her hands, 
I pressed them;, to my. lips, and burst into > 
i'. ■ .0 ' 
tears. 
Her eyes glistened, she raised and embracedi: me, and leading me to the^coach, she made me get into.it. Seated herself, beside.>me, andc. away we drove. 
The carriage stopped at a magnificent par lace, a young and very shandsome gentleman approached with a; joyful impatience, and handed the lady out; he embraced, and tenderly complained of. the length of her stay;,,, Ihe Smiled, and pointing to the carriage, where I Sat trembling and unassured, she informed .a him in a few words of my story 
My wife! my lovely wife! cried he, when:; Ihe had sinisned, blessfed be that power that, informs your Sweet bosom with all his own dii 

vine propensities and feelings; he then hand;; 

[ 1 
I 
ed me out, and his lady taking my arm, led me to the house, and. treated me with the most engaging sweetness and condeseension; 
J afterwards learned my mistress was the sister of an English nobleman, from whole Severity, she had escaped to her lover, and was now countess of Arundel. 
Think, my dear Son, what I must have felt at hearing that name mentioned — the concurrent circumstances left me not the Smalleft doubt of its being that of the fon of my most bated foe, and the hushard of my once beloved sister; but I did not give the least interruption to so interesting a story, and (he proceeded. 
I 
The earl and countess on the approach of winter, quitted their country Seat, removed to Paris, and mixed in those brilliant circles where they were So well qualified to shine. 
Among the crowds of noblesse that frequented their house, those wsith whom they were most intimately connected were Lord and Lady Sedley, a very amiable pair; Lady Sedley was (my missress excepted) the handsomest woman 
I have 
[ '33 ] 
I have ever Seen, and her lord was a man of worth and honour. 
The earl of Arundel had two lovely children, a boy about three years old, and an infant daughter, who promised to surpass even her mother in beauty; Lord Sedley too had a fon, nearly the Same age as my master’s, and he took a particular pleasure in planning a future union between the ehildrenv 
But I will hasten to that part of their story, with which mine is most intimately coni 

nefied. 
There was a young nobleman, to whom Lord Sedley was very much attached, and whom he recommended tp the acquaintance cf the earl and countess, as a youth of the strictest honour, and the most amiable disposition; his name was Villars; he was indeed distinguished for the engaging sweetness of his temper, the loveliness of his aspect, and the graceful elegance of his person and address. 
From 
I 134. J 
J * 
the first moment I beheld him, my heart became susceptible of love; had it been equally alive to virtue, it would have combated, Jt would have Suppressed the presumptuous passion, but J was young, I was handsome, my temper too w’as romantic, nay worse, it was proud, vindictive, and impetuous; I continued to love the count de Villars, and to flatter myself with a thousand delusive. hopes, when I learned that he had paid his addrelses to a young lady of great beauty and merit 
daughter to the marquis de -- -- -- -- --, and that a 
day not very distant, was fixed on for their jquptials.. 
r 
This discovery would have been a.sufficient: crush to the hopes of a genius less enterprising than mine; I directly formed a design of preventing their union. I found means to persuade the count that his mistress was unfaithful, and Secretly encouraged the addrestes of another; in short, I managed the whole affair with So much art, that he not only broke off all connexion with her, but looked upon me as his guardian angel, that had kindly interposed between him and ruin; in consequence of Which, he gave me So many testimonies and 
a ffu ranees 
I 135 ] 
assurances of his gratitude, as encouraged me to venture on an avowal of my passion. 
St 
'His eyes were instantly opened on my artifice, and I was rejected with the most mortifying disdain; he instantly flew to his mis trefs with redoubled tenderness and obtained full pardon upon discovering the plots that had been machinated against them, and returning to the countess, he acquainted her with my treachery, upon which she Severely reprimanded, and was going to dismiss me; but iny tears, my entreaties, my professions of remorse, and repeated promises of amendment prevailed on her gentle nature, (q receive me again to favour. 
My passion for the Count, was now converted into the most inveterate hatred, indignation, despair, and all the rage of disappointed love took possession of my whole Soul, and prompted me to a quick and deadly revenge on the object of my detestation. 
The countess too, was destined to share in the malignity of my vengeance. I reflected sthat she was now clearly apprized of my wickedness, 

[ 13^ 3 
edness, and I hated her for the opinion which she must consequently entertain concerning me. I was conscious that she ought to loath and despise me, and I determcned to avenge myself of the mischiefs, which I could not but suppose she Intended against me; horrid fenr timents! infernal Suggestions I yet not unnatural to wretches So deeply depraved as I was at that juncture. 
The count’s valet had long loved me, but had been rejected with a mixture of contempt and indignation; he continued, however, to tease me with his passion, and as. I thought he might be useful towards furthering ray revenge, I told him r had an affair of consequence to transact, in which I should have an occasion for his assistance, and that provided he would bind himself by a Solemn oath to Secrecy,, and obedience to my commands, I w’oulst engage to become his wife; he inssant jy complied, and I. informed him of my hatred'as well to his master, as my own mistress, and made up an artful tale to justify my resentment ^ 
/ 
told 
t 137 ] 
I told him, that if ever he hoped to gain iny affection, he must assist me to contrive Some method of retorting my injuries on them both. 
His attachment to his master made him hc sitate at first, but finally, he engaged implicit compliance, and we mutually agreed to watch, and inform each other of every opportunity that should appear favourable to our hellish designs. 
i 
We had not waited long, when chance presented us with one, the most apt to our purpose. 
The Earl on his marriage with my mistress, had given her his miniature Set in diamonds, one of the brilliants Sell out, as she danced at a ball, she perceived her loss the next morning, and happening to mention it before the Count, he requested she would honour him with the care of it, and he would have it immediately repaired. 
I mentioned this incident to my accomplice, without thinking that we could derive any advantage 
[ S ], 
vantage from it, when he Suddenly exclaimed, with a horrid transport, that he now had, the means of effecting my vengeance to the utmost. He told me, that his master, had that day received a message from mademolfctle de 
-- -- -- -, with a lock of her hair wrought, and 
Set in the shape of an heart, in return to which he had wrote an acknowledging billet, and. Sent it by him, with orders to deliver it into her own hands. 
The Card fan thus — — 
My dearest love, 
T am quite unhappy that, it is not in tnj power to attend and thank you in pejson, for your enchanting present; a crowd of imperti nents are assembled at my house, and without being absolutely rude, I cannot make my escape from thern. How mortifying? — and oh, how very dear, is every instance of you?, affection,, to the heart of your devoted 
villaks. 
t ■ • 
- 
[ 139 ] 
As Soon as 1 had perused it, he acquainted; me with his plan, changed the cover, and directed it to the countess of Arundel; he then ran to find the Earl, and throwing himself on his knees before him, with the greatest appearance of contrition, he informed him,, that his lady, and the Count de Villars, had long carried on a Secret, and criminal correspondence, that he had been the wicked instrument of their amours, but that his con 
u 
Science strongly reproached him, for the part he had taken in their guilt, and he was determined to concea! it no longer. He delivered the note, whiqh the Earl opened and read 
.. ^ •• f. * ' I 
with violent agitation, and demanded of him what present it was which the Count received from his wife? The fellow denied any knowr ledge of it, but advised him to apply to me, as I, he observed; .was, questionless a confident 
/ ■ r ■ '; * ^ 
in the affair. 
4 
« 
The Earl endeavoured to restrain his passion, and Sent to have me instantly, before him. I came; he strictly interrogated me respecting every circumstance of the supposed amour. I. at first pretended a total ignorance of the mat ter, but, (as if intimidated by his threats) I at 
length 
t HO ] 
length confelted, that my mistress had given his picture to' the Count, as a proof of her affection for him, and her contempt of her Lord. 
It would be equally needless and impoltible to describe the fury of the unhappy Earl; he stew to his wife, and sternly demanded his picture; she was terrified at the fierceness of his voice and aspect, and tremblingly confessed to him the accident that it had met with and that she had given it to the Count to have it repaired. 
Her answer confirmed his suspicions; he showed her the count’s !etter, and reprokh* ed her with her baseness, in terms that manifested at once his !ove, his rage, and his despair: : did not hear him out, but dropped insensibie on the floor. 
Half Srantic, he caught her in his arms, and called aloud for assistance. I entered, he left her to my care, and rushed out of the room. 
, I was 
I HI 1 
I was struck with compassion and remorse, when I beheld the lovely countess, pale and breathless before me; but the mischief was already done, and it was now too late to retract. 
She continued So long in a state of insensibl lity, that I thought she would never recover, but at length, she awoke to the most poignant Sensations, yet strove as much as possible to restrain the effusions of her anguish. She inquired for her Lord, but he was not to be found, and she retired to her chamber, leaving orders that none might attempt to disturb her. 
The Earl did not return till late, he entered with a Sullen gloom on his brow, and shut himself up in his study, where he passed the night in violent agitatitm, for we heard him frequently groan, and throw himself on the ground, then rise, and traverse the room at a furious pace. 
He did not appear till the next day, ' when with a countenance expressive of a determined despair, he inquired for his countess, and desired 
/ 
t 142 T 
■sired to See her. I went to her antechamber, and tapped Softly'at her door, no one answer ed, I opened it, but no one appeared. icon tiniied my Search through the whole house, but could neither discover, nor learn any tidings concerning her. 
i - * ' 
1 ran with this intelligence to the ears; he istarted, he flew to her apartment, and espy ing a paper which had escaped my notice, folded and Sealed, and lying on her toilet, he hastily tore it open, and ran over the contents. 
As he proceeded, I observed that he trembled, 
and turned to a deadly paleness, drops 
-■ ^ • 
of anguish gathered on his brow, he uttered a deep and heart rendiiig groan, and fell to the ground. 
» 
I Screamed for help, all the domestics enter ed, we raised and laid him bn a bed, and used our utmost endeavours to recall him to life; at last he opened his eyes, and staring wildly 
fi. 
around, he started up and exclaimed, — : where, where is the villain that has deceived me, that has robbed me of my wife, my love? — 
fool 
f n43 ] 
fool that I was, to give ear to his Infernal malice. She is, she must be innocent, — but yet; — Such accursed, Such incontestable proofs, of her guilt !- — no, no, — it cannot be; — it is impossible, and that impossibility excludes every hope of any alleviation of rny wretchedness. 
4 * J, 
Oh — that I could tear her for ever froth shy heart, ' — but it will not be, 'she continues to cling around it, and pull it after her with an irresistible attraction. 
Here he threw himself prostrate on the floor, he groaned, he wept, and r’lsing again, with a frantic eagerness, he caught up some 
of his lady’s ornaments that were Scattered 
** 
about the room, and pressing them repeatedly to his lips and his bosom, he watered them plenteoussy with his tears. 
•. •*% •» 4 
It was how for the first time, that my heart was waning with reshorse, my crime presented itself in all its hideousness to my shuddering imagination; I turned inward an eye of apprehensive terror; but oh! what a gloomy, what a tremendous prospect! I Saw nothing 
but 
r 144 1 
but horrors, I felt nothing but despair, and I tore myself away from the presence of my injured master, lest I should be tempted in a fit of desperation to betray myself to the justice of his vengeance. 
My wretched accompfice now claimed the promised reward of his treachery; my nature shrunk from the proposal, but I also trembled at recollection of my own perfidy; I dreaded lest a refusal should tempt him to betray me, and villain as he was, I sought in him a refuge from the affrightments of conscious gilt. We were married, and to avoid any questions that might lead to an explanation, we retired under a feigned name, to a private lodging, till the present storm should be overblown. 
t 
The generosity of my mistress had from time to time furnished me with many valuable presents, which together with the Savings of my Salary, amounted to a considerable Sum. I urged my husband to Set up in Some reputable trade that might procure us a livelihood, but his thoughtless dissipated temper made him deaf to all my remonstrances. Our stock was loon exhausted, and our credit stretched to the 
"utmost, 
/ » 
[ h45 ] 
iimost, my husband was daily threatened with 
mprisonment, arid to avoid this last calamity 
ve were obliged with our eldest boy, then an 
nfant, to quit the kingdom, and take shelter. % 
in England. 
To add to our distrefses, the constant agita ion of my mind, tortured with the pangs of excruciating recollection, preyed upon my Splits, and destroyed my health; a long and dangerous illness was the consequence, and re liiced us to the want of even the common northeast celtaries of life. My husband however, during my confinement, attended me with all the tenderness of which his nature was capable, and as Soon as I was tolerably recovered, he procured me a means of Subsistence in the house of a widow lady, where I was to act in capacity of waiting maid, and he was hired as valet to her only Son, an officer in the army. 
Here we lived till I was delivered of my two youngest children, when our young master was called abroad to join his regiment, and my husband, at his request accompanied him, ^tid left me and my tsiree little ones deoend 
H ing 
[ 146 r 
ing on the .bounty of my mistress, who promised to take care of them in the absence of their father. But Soon after his departure she sickened and died; her effects were all Seized by a kinsman, in order, as he Said, to Secure them against the return of her Son; and I was once more thrown destitute upon the world. 
4-,, 
Though my mind was Inured to misery, my limbs were not formed for fatigue, they failed me, and I fainted by the way; and but for 
V 
your goodness, I and my children should have perished in the cottage where your charity found us. 
Here the unfortunate woman closed her narrative; during which I was Scarcely able to conceal the various emotions of grief and joy, by which I was alternately agitated, grief for the Sufferings of a Sister, for whom my orxe tender affection was now renewed and redoubled, and joy at finding her innocent of the cruel asperfions that had been thrown upon her character. 
I deemed 
[ HI ] 
1 deemed It prudent however, to conceal the interest I took in her story, though I determined to reward the relater for the pleasure It had procured me; I presented her with a purse sf twenty guineas, and asked her in what manner she intended to dispose of it? 
After a profusion of thanks and blessings, 
and Some deliberation, she told me she would 
\ 
try to improve her stock by Setting up a little School, as she thought herself tolerably qualified for the purpose. 
I 
I approved of her Scheme, and told her that as I was the distress of the unhappy earl and countess of Arundel, I would wish, if possible, to be a means of reconciling them, if she could direct me where to find any of the parties concerned. But she told me that all my search in this kingdom would be ineffectual, as Ihe herself had made diligent inquiry after them, and could not hear of any nobleman of the title of Sedley in England, and was further assured that Lord Arundel was either dead or retired to some distant country, and could nowhere be found or heard of. 
h2 This 
C hs j 
This was all the intelligence I could get; and leaving the poor woman to pursue her intentions, I returned home with a resolution of travelling to France in quest of my sister; but the ill state of my health prevented me from putting my plan into execution, and I make it my earnest and dying request since Providence has not been pleastd to prosper my endeavours towards makingsher some recompense for my former cruel treatment of her, that you my fon, who have youth, health, and strength fuf sicient for the undertaking, will Spare no pains or cost to effect: her restoration and reunion, if not with the husband, yet at least with a family, whose tenderness I trust, will in a manner console her under her misfortunes. 
I will continue my narrative in my next, for the present I am tired Scribbling, and mull 
conclude my emily’s ever faithful 
» 
E. Jersey. 
I' 
LET 

, C 149 3 
i 
t 
y 
LETTER XXX 
♦ 
t 
The same to the Same. 
0 
jersey Grove. 
X Sit down, my dear Emily, to perform my promise, and will begin without any further preface. 
As Soon after the earl’s interment as decency would permit, my dear lord hastened to obey his last commands. He left my brother for my guardian and companion till his return and departed on his commission. 
All the letters which I received from him during his absence, the last excepted, were filled with the accounts of his fruit less enqui 
- [ ISO ] 
ries after his unhappy kinswoman; and having travelled, most part of France in her Search, he vas returning in despair of ever finding her, when Providence at a time, and in a manner the most unexpected, presented him with the person whom he had so long been in quest of. 
t 
The day. Says he, on which I was So happy as to discover the retreat of the dear patient Sufferer, I was travelling through a beau, tiful though uncultivated part of the country, and as the weather was remarkably sine, I got out of my carriage, and desired my Servant to drive siowly onwards, as ichose to walk a while, that I might have the better view of the Surrounding prospect. 
As I frequently stood to admire the beauty of the country, the chaise had left me some distance behind, when in an instant the sky was overcast, and 1 perceived a violent storm approaching; I quickened my pace to overtake the carriage, and called aloud to the Servant to stop, but before I could get up to them, the rain began, accompanied with thunder and 
light 
/ 
[ I 
lightning, and I was compelled to take shelter in a Small but neat house that stood a few yards distant from the road. 
The door was opened by an old domestic, who desired 1 would walk in until the storm should be blown over, and ushered me into the parlour. A lady rose at my entrance, and welcomed me with a grace and dignity of manner, which I was Surprised at finding in So 
s 
obscure an habitation. She. was tall, elegantly formed, and dressed in mourning; .she Seemed about forty, yet her face was, I think one of the finest I have ever Seen, and there was a delicacy, a touching expression of melancholy in her Sweet complacent countenance, that showed her the beloved of Sorrow, and acquainted with an uncommon share of the deepest afflictions. 
My heart was Softened, was interested in this amiable stranger, I could not tel how to account for it. 
t 
I had not been !ong Seated, when my carriage drove up to the court j as it approached, 
her 
S ] 
her colour changed to a deathlike paleness, she started up — Good God! it' is the name; —. the arms: — can it be possible? — Then turning to me with quickness, — Who, whence are you? she cried, — tell me, tell me instantly? then sinking into her chair, she burst into tears, and raising her hands and eyes to heaven, O my cruel, yet tenderly beloved brother! she exclaimed, do you still live? do you still continue to hate your unhappy Sister 
O my aunt I I cried, with a shout of triumph, — my aunt I my long lost, my much lamented aunt I — I strained her to my bosom, but she was insensibie to my caresses, she had fainted quite away. I rung for assistance, a maid entered, and administered Some drops; in a short time she opened her languid eyes, and fixed them with a melancholy wildness on my face. — Ah! do I dream? she faintly cried, ris it possible that you can be — Your Richard, your nephew, my beloved aunt, interrupted I, who blesses God that has so happily directed his Search, and thinks all his pains a thousandfold 
compensated by the transport, the more 
than 
[ IJ3 ] 
than filial tenderness which he feels at this dei 

lightful interview. 
She threw her dear arms round my neck and wept upon it. Ah, my child, she exclaimed, for, alas! I have now no other, is it then to Seek me out that you have travelled hither? did you come to trace the forlorn one to the unfrequented Spot where she thought shortly to have laid herself and her Sorrows in the dust? but who directed you where' to find me? who could have vindicated my character to you, or told you that I was an object worthy of your Search? 
/ 
In compliance to her desire I gave her a short but comprehensive detail of the crimes,,, repentance, and confession of the Unhappy wretch who had betrayed her. 
I was obliged to pause frequently in the eourfe of my narrative, that she might have time to recover in a measure from the violent agitations it occasioned; when I had finished,, and she was a little composed, she asked with a look of mournful curiosity, if I had heard 
H 5 nothing 
[ h4 ] 
nothing of her lord; but no, (she conllmied without waiting for my answer) he has doubtless retired like myself to Some uninhabited wild, where his griefs for the imagined perfidy of his once beloved louisa ha driven him; perhaps too, he is no more, that his Sorrows have put a period to his noble life, — and yeti have Survived, my God! thy restraining grace, thy Sustaining hand has Supported me through anguish inexpressible, and my heart is not yet broke, nor has my hand ever once attempted to close this wretched existence. 
ibut suppose that my beloved still lives, think you he would give credit to the story of nny innocence, or that I could a Second time Support the Severity of that brow, the killing indignation of those eyes that were wont to melt over me with Such unutterable fondness? O the days, the days of transport I have experienced, but they are long since past, and as I once was blessed, foi now am wretched in the extreme. 
I 
But Soft! what have I been Saying ^ ungrateful wretch that I am, ought I not rather 
to 
V 
L 155 1 
to pour forth my thanks to the all merciful Being, who has at length brought my innocence to light, and Sent my Richard to alleviate my Sorrows; but, alas! the alienation of my hus band’s affections, and the loss of my children, are griefs, that like the rod of Moses, Swallow ’up every other consideration, and Scarcely leave room in my heart for any other emotion of joy or Sorrow to enter. 
At the mention of her children, I recollected that the unhappy penitent in the story of her crimes, had Scarcely informed me of anything concerning them, and I ventured to ask my aunt what was become of them. 
She told me that at the time she parted from her husband, her little daughter was an insant at nurse, but the boy being two years older had been taken home, and was So very engaging, and So particularly attached to her, that she could not leave him with every other comfort behind her, but took him and an old faithful domestic as partners of her exile, together with a large quantity of her jewels, to enable her to educate her child as she could 
wish. 
[ 15« ] 
wish, that she had left a letter behind, informing her lord of what she had done, but not of the place of her retreat, and retired in disguife, and under a feigned name to a convent, where she lived with her little boy till he was of an age capable of instruction. 
She then had a tutor provided, and masters to instruct him in whatever Sciences or accomplishments might improve the natural goodness of his mind and graces of his person; she endeavoured for his Sake to be as much resigned as possible, and in return Sound in him a consolation for every other affliction; but of him too she was bereft, and at a time when she least expected Such a stroke. 
He had Srequently questioned her concerning his father; she endeavoured to evade his inquiries, but the tears and the emotion which they occasioned, and which she strove in vain to suppress, increased his eagerness to come at the truth; at last he prevailed upon the domestic that accompanied their flight to inform him, the consequence was no other than what the countess expected, hk young heart was agitated, it was silled with a thousand emotions 
[ 157 1 
I 
ons of grief, resentment, honour, and filial tenderness; he had always a violent propensity to the army, and the discovery he had lately made augmented; it he would go, he would voluntarily offer himself to the ennobling Service of his king and country (for he was taught to believe himself French, as he had not been informed of his mother’s real name, or her history preceding her marriage with Lord Arundel); he would signalise him fels, he would acquire fame, honour, and wealth, and raise his mother to a rank Superior to what she had ever held, and that would exalt her merit to its deserts, and make her virtue as well as beauty conspicuous to the world, and to the husband who had so cruelly injured her. 
In vain did the countess endeavour to moderate his ardour, he appeared to be convinced, but finally forsook her. My unhappy aunt was deeply affected at his loss, but Supported herself with the hopes that he might Soon return in Safety, perhaps wkh wealth and honours, but paint to yourself her distraction,, when in a short time after his departure she 
heard 
C 158 ] 
heard that he was killed at the battle of Fontenoy. 
She languished for a length of time under a Severe and lingering illness, which the shock 
4, 
of this dreadful intelligence occasioned, but heaven was pleased to reserve her for the enjoyment of many blessings which I trust it has yet in store for the Sweetest, meekest, loveliest, and most exalted of its votaries; as I make no doubt but we shall, by some means or other, be able to discover the retreat of lord Arundel, and restore the dear wanderer to his arms. But to proceed. 
At the time the countess first took shelter at the convent de — —, she got particularly acquainted with, and attached to a widow lady of Small fortune, and her daughter, who both boarded there; they were amiable, and from a similarity of their dispositions to her own, they became intimate and affectionate friends. Soon after her recovery. Some dissensions arising in the convent, made her continuance in it extremely disagrecable, and the daughter of her friend having just then been married to a 
worthy 
[ h9 1 
worthy young man, this amiable family entreated her to accompany them to a beautiful little estate which they posteffed in this retired part of the country, and here they lived toge there for Several years with the greatest harmony; but nothing could rouse the unhappy countess from the deep dejection of Spirit into which her manifold misfortunes had thrown her, and she could not be prevailed upon to accompany her friends on a visit to a relation’s house in Paris, where they went about a month ago, and left her mistress of the mansion till their return, which she expected in a week at farthest; and then she consents to revisit with me her native land. 
Here ends the history of the most amiable, but most unfortunate of her Sex. Good God, my Emily 1 I once thought it impossible for humanity to Support Such deep and repeated strokes of affliction, for mere humanity it certainly was; but 1 trust that the Sweet saint will yet even in this world receive the reward of her piety and patience. 
I expect her in less than a fortnight. I should be too happy but for the very great share which 
my 
- 
[ ico ] i 
my affection constrains me to take in the distress of my amiable brother and his lovely mistress; 
I wait wish' anxiety the arrival of tomorrow,, that will certainly bring me some intelligence from him. God, grant it may be favourable to his wishes, and those of your 
* 
E. Jerset,. 
r 
w 
W 
f 
s 
s 
% • 
LET 
\ 
[ ] 
y 
i 
LETTER XXXI 
\ 
miss Rochdale to miss Wyndham. 
Woodville. 
ctlourage, my dear louisa, all may yet be well, I do not apprehend that matters are So bad as you may imagine; be assured it is no more than I have this long time expected, from my knowledge of Lord granville’s disposition; after all, his rejection of your henry’s Suit may be but temporary, even should he at present be deaf to his pleading, but that is yet a doubt with me, he loves his Son almost to adoration, besides he is generous, and has a heart all alive to the feelings of humanity. This account of him I learned from Lady Wilmot, our near and very agreeable neighbour, and next to yourself, my most amiable 
t 
[ i62 ] 
ble and intimate friend; she corresponds with the countess, and tells me she is indeed a most charming woman, lovely in her person, but still rriore amiable in her disposition and deportment. I trust that her sost authority, joined to the rhetoric of your Henry, will have a very happy influence in your favour. 
My brother and St. Alnais arc not yet returned, but are expected in a few days. What shall I Say to you, my friend? shall I own that I am not myself since their departure? nothing can employ, nothing can amuse me, I rattle over the keys of my harpsichord, but either that, or my fingers, or my heart, or Something is out of tune; I go to translate my Metastasio, but study makes my head ache; I draw, but my pencil runs awry; I am tired of my work, of my book, and still more of Sauntering about the house; what can be the matter with me? I wish my brother was returned, — hush! I hear a carriage, — ’tis he himself as I live, and with him, — bless me! how mv heart flutters. I am called, what will become of me? I am all over in a tremor. 
I[ 
[ ] 
— I must go, farewell, pray heaven I acquit myself tolerably, — now for it — 
Oh, ruined and undone louisa! never was poor creature So awkward, So Soolish, So mortified; but I will tell you how like an idiot I have behaved. 
I had not got half my way down, when I felt mystlf tremble, and my colour rise to Such a degree, that I was obliged to stop awhile, and try at a little composure; but my unlucky brother ran up, and feeing me stand hesitating and confused, he laughed In my face, and Seizing my hand, pulled me downstairs. 
St. Alnais was standing In the hall. Edward brought me forward with an air of ceremonious drollery, and presented me to him, he bowed distant and respectful, I curtsied low, my brother laughed at us both. — What is the matter with you? cried he : why one would imagine you had never Seen each other before? Harriet, my dear, this is Monsieur St. Alnais, my very good friend. — Sir, my Sister Harriet, a mighty lively, agreeable, Spirited giil. 
St, 
. ^ [ 164 ] 
St. Alnais Smiled and took my hand, L am Sure he must have felt it tremble, for I was ready to sink with confusion; he raised his eyes to my face with a look of Surprise, and I thought of tenderness, — but it might have been a mistake. — I was mad.at myself for having betrayed So much emotion, yet since it was 
/ 
evident to escape his observation, he might have appeared happy at it, or grateful, or ' — Something, — nay I would not have had him presume to be Saucy, or take airs on the occasion neither; but, — but — in short,. — I was - not half Satisfied with him, 'tor indeed with 
i 
myself, and as for Edward I declare I aimed hate him. I had no idea of their returning so Suddenly, it was the Surprise that threw me So much off my guard, — what have I Said? off my guard. Alas! that is now of no further consequence, than to conceal as much as possible the appearance of my affection, for the poor bird is already flown, and I am yet doubtful of the reception it will meet with from its new possessor. 
I 
Deuce take this mysterious creature j if he should not love me now, after all, — how mortifying! 
[ 1^5 3 
tifying! — and yet it is not impossible — I don’t know what to think. 
We are to Set out for London next week; 
farewell, my Sweet louisa. I hope I need not 
> 
remind you how anxious I shall be till I hear from you again. 
H. Rochdale, 
\ 
✓ 
/ 
i 
LET 
E i66 3 
I *. 
4 
LETTER XXXII 
X 
Lord Mordaunt to miss Wyndham. 
/ 
f 
Berkley Square. 
VV^HAT shall I Say? — how shall I write? — my lovely, my beloved louisa, my heart is almost broke. — I have kneeled, pleaded, and entreated in vain, my father continues inexorable, and your Henry is undone. 
That villain Hastings! — may the curses of his own malevolent heart be his punishment I My father acknowledges that he was the infamous detractor, and now despises him for 
his 
I 
[ x67 3 
his perfidy. It was with difficulty that I could get him to listen to me at all on the Subject of my passion; but I conceived great hopes from his being So very much affected with that part of my narrative, in which I endeavoured to do justice to the nobleness of my lovely girl’s conduct, and the cruel generosity with which she rejected my proposal; ’twas to no purpose that he struggled to suppress the rising emotion, and he just then put me in mind of Some beautiful lines in that very elegant old ballad of the Child of 
eue. 
The Baron stroked his dark brown hair, 
And turned his face aside. 
To wipe away the starting tear He proudly strove to hide. 
At last he exclaimed. So then she refused you, actually refused you; ha! — that was noble! noble indeed! but proud though, very proud I and yet I can hardly think she rejected you, Harry. But it must be So, I know you would not deceive me; she is a generous girl, indeed; and were she but your 
equal 
[ i68 ] 
equal in birth, I should cast aside every pecuniary, consideration, and would not wish for a mate more worthy of my Harry. I am obliged to her too, as I think, more so than I am to you, honest friend, for your duteous project; but I forgive you, my child, because I love you. I love her too, and would gladly contribute to her happiness, but not at the expense of my honour; leave me for the present. I shall resume the Subject another time, but I positively command you to think as little of your louisa as possible, or at least to restrain your fondness within the bounds of friendship; in that I myself would willingly be your rival: you may esteem her as a friend, you may love her as a sister, in that light, but 
in no other, can I ever look upon her as my 
/ 
daughter. 
I bowed, sighed, and withdrew 
O that you had been less an angel, my louisa I but I shall offend; forgive me my love, and I will cease, if possible, to murmur at your too generous resolution. 
Tv 
J.V, L V 
1169} 
My mother is just returned, she was from some when I arrived, I fly to meet her. Fare.. my heart’s best beloved. 
Your own 
i 
II Mordaunt. 
% 
/ 
i 
/ 
$ 
I LETS 

: i 
[ 170 J 
LETTER XXXIII 
miss Wyndham to Lord Mordaunt. 
dove brook. 
A LL then, is over, my Harry, not the mod distant shadow of hope remains; my own Sorrows I could have born, but you too are un happy; yes I know, I feel that you are. I should be guilty of the basest ingratitude, could I doubt for a moment of your affection, — why, alas! did we ever meet; and O why was the consequence love? gratitude, friendship— — not they have Sufficed? amiable, tender, but Seducing Semblances, I thought that these alone had taken possession of my heart and yielded it up with a pleased precipi tance^ to the dear yet fatal delusion. 
Why 
C HI ] 
Why should we shame to acknowledge a virtuous passion; — it is my pride, and glory to have inspired it in the breast of the most a’miable of men; and my Harry, I also know the inestimable value of that heart, and return its affections with a tenderness that I blush not to avow; but, alas! to what purpose do I love? to what purpose am I beloved, since nothing but misery can ensue, not only to myself but to one who is infinitely dearer. 
cease to importune your father, I beseech you, lam assured he will never consent, and a too frequent repetition of your request, might provoke his resentment, perhaps his curse. — Oh! — Spare me. Spare me the reality of Such horrors, — indeed, my Harry, I could not bear it, I shudder at the very idea. 
Fly, rather fly this fatal wretch, who involves in his own misery the dearest object of her affections, perish first unhappy i^ouisa! Indeed lever held myself unworthy of your love it was too great a happiness for me to aspire to; cease then to love me, my Harry, — cease to think of me, — hold my heart, — what have I Said? forget me, fly me, cease to love me; — 
12 could 
[ 02 ] 
could I bear that? — yes, — yes; — I think I could, — I may be wretched in the extreme, but I will not be criminal. 
.Adieu! may every blessing that Providence has In store for virtue, be showered on the head and expanded in the heart of my Harry, whatever is the fate of his 
Louisa. 
✓ 
I 
■» 
0 
/ 
LET 
L m 1 
LETTER XXXIV 
\ 
Lord Mordaunt to Miss Wyndham. 
\ 
Berkley Square. 
H A T a cruel, what a heartbreaking 
letter was yours! shajl I then forget you? 
shall I cease to love my louisa? heavens! what a question? shall existence cease to be enamoured of happiness? Every Species of calamity, of loss, sickness, pain, torture and deaths the Soul entrenched in her own fortitude can think of without emotion, but the loss of 
you, my louisa! -- it is not to be Sathom 
ed, ~ — I grow dizzy, I sicken, I shrink from the precipice, the thought leaves creation empty. 
You 
[ l74 I 
. / — » 
You tell me you have not a doubt of my affection, and yet imagine it possible to be eradicated; you desire me to fly you, to forget you; you conclude that time, accident, and above all, the authority of a parent, will have power to chase you from my breast, — never, never, my louisa! my passion for you sills my whole Soul, and leaves no room for any future attachment to anything. Save yourself, upon earth; age cannot obliterate, time cannot impair it; it is twined into, it is become one with my existence, and when I cease to love my louisa, that moment I cease to be. 
’tis true, a father’s command is Sacred, and his person inexpressibly dear to my heart; but were he to propose an alienation of my affections from my beloved, and bestow upon me in return all that the world contains and esteems, of power to confer happiness, and to fill up the expansion of every wish that the human heart can form, they would in vain court my acceptance, when rivalled by an interest in the bosom of my Louisa. Let him put my obedience to the trial; I am ready to Sacrifice wealth, honour, dignities, titles, even life itself with pleasure, if his Safety required 
sti 
t >75 ] 
s 
It; anything, all things but my louisa, without whom existence would be insupportable. 
The heart is Sree, It is voluntary, no force can compel it, no interest can bribe it, it tramples upon treasure, it looks down upon station; in nature, in humanity, in friendship, and in love, the heart is the fountain of Sentimental delights, the only Source of all enjoyments that are worthy of man; were I possessor of the universe, were I even posteffed of my louisa, did I deem myself at the Same lime an alien to her heart, the world and louisa would be no more to her Harry, than earth is to the camelepn who lives upon air; and all the wealth or honours that this world can bestow are of no signification or importance to me, but as a means to attach the person of my blessing to the Sacred and diviner possession of her heart. 
I do not yet despair of accomplishing tha^ blissful union; a letter from my sister, filled with the praises of my louisa, joined to the intercession of his amiable countess, has Softened my father’s heart in our favour; his resolution is staggered, he wisties to See you; for ' what 
C 176 ] 
what purpose I am ignorant, but I hope everything. He Says he would invite you hither, but that he supposes yotiare too proud to accept of his invitation; Surely when he is thus interested by the bare description of your excellence, at your appearance every objection must vanish. My louisa, — might I dare to propose, — you understand me, — consider, my < angel, that the certain happiness or misery of my life depends on the result of my father’s determination; my mother herself, if you consent, will go down and attend you hither; I know you are capable of Sacrificing a great deal, where the happiness of the person that you love is at stake; I feel also most Sensibly the many reasons which punctilio, delicacy, and a consciousness of worth would urge against your compliance with a request which I hardly dare to make; but O, if indeed you love your Harry, let the transporting hope that the event may Succeed to our wish, obliterate every other consideration. 
On my knees I entreat you will use your utmost interest with my honoured friend and instructor, to obtain if possible his consent; 
but there is the doubt, there is the dread, 
lest 
i 
[ 07 1 
lest a sense of honour, and a pride that is but too well justified should influence him to reject the only means that opens a prospect of happiness to your Harry. I shall wait your answer with the most anxious fuspense, I will not tell youjshecause it is impossible to express the esteem, the love, the warmth of passion that glows in the heart of your 
II Mordaunt. 
r 
I 
/ 
Is LET[ 
[ ] 
I 
I 
L E T T E R XXXV 
kiss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
dove brook. 
HAT a hand, trembling, and Scarcely able to hold the pen 1 I sit down to inform my Henrietta of my present embarrassing situation. 
This morning I rcteived a letter from Lord Mordaunt, expressive of the warmest esteem and the most passionate regard; he Seems to think Lord Granville will yet eonfent to our. union; he relents, he wishes to See me, but thinks me too proud to accept of his invitation, though bis countess would herself be the bearer of it, and accompany my father and myself to London. My Harry urges my compliance in the most delicate manner you can imagine; Surely there is noilsmg which virtue would permit, that I would not Sacrifice with transport to his happiness, and Lord Granville 
V 
V[ 
[ I 
ville must think me proud indeed, should I reject a Solicitation that does me the highest ho nour. 
But I know not what to think of my father’^s conduct on this occasion, nor can I account for his agitation and extraordinary expressions. 
I enclose to you copies of Lord mordaunt’s letters, which I put together this morning into my father’s hands. As he perused the first I observed his countenance change, and that he assumed a look of more haughtiness than ever I had Seen him put on; he returned me the letters, frowned, bit his lip,, and traversed the room, as if violently agitated with some strange emotioni; at last he approached me with a hasty step, and Seizing my hand, They may be mistaken, my louisa, cried he, they may yet find you a mate for a princely con sort, and that your alliance would ennoble instead of debasing them.” What could he 
1 
mean,. Henrietta? — I was So terrified,. So struck with his air and manner, but above all with his expressions, that I had not power to reply, but presented him with my harry’slast letter, which, he had not yet read. 
He 
I io ] 
He appeared pleased with the warmth of affection which every line of it conveyed, but when he came to that part which contains Lord granville’s invitation, he started. Seemed to ponder a while, as on Some important event, and Suddenly retired. 
I have not Seen him since, he has been upwards of an hour alone in his study, and I immediately took up the pen to give you an account of his very mysterious conduct, a thousand ideas rush upon my mind, I am perplexed, I am astonished, I know not what to think. 
/ 
But still remain my henrietta’s most affectionate 

L Wyndham. 
/ 
\ 
X E T 
0 
[ ii 3 
LETTER XXXVI 
The countess of Jersey to Miss Walpole. 
jersey Grove; 
M Y Emily, they are arrived, — the tedious hours of absence are at length elapsed, and my beloved Lord Is restored to the arras of bis happy Eliza. 
My aunt too, but how shall I describe her to you? — in what language shall I paint the gentle resignation, the meek endurance of grief that is portrayed in her angel face? which is (our Sweet louisa excepted) the loveliest I have ever Seen; nay, there is a resemblance too, and that as striking as to Surprise me; then her form is harmony itself, and her voice tuned to a cadence that Is even 
affect[ 
[ 
affectingly Sweet; dear amiable Sufferer, my Emily — it shall be the delightful study of my life, to be the comfort and consolation of hers; my attention, my affectionate assiduity, shall win her from the recollection of her griefs,;, and Sooth her gentle bosom to peace, if, as I very much fear, it should never be susceptible of happiness. 
I just Snatch a Sew' moments to inform you of their arrival, while my lord is perusing the packet that Mrs. Chalmers desired should be given to him. I wonder what it can contain? there was Something very mysterious in that woman, and I own myself not only curious but impatient to know the purport of her manuscript— — for a moment, now, for the contents of this extraordinary packet. 
I am transported, : — I Scarcely breathe, my head is almost giddy with this excels of happiness. — Gracious God, how just, hovv wonderful are thy difpensations I — our louisa, — she is no other than the daughter, and her father the much deceived, and long lamented husband of the countess of Arundel., 
Mrs. 
[ 1^3 ] 
Mrs. Chalmers, (O may her Sufferings and repentance be accepted as an atonement of her crimes,) she was the guilty but unfortunate wretch, who betrayed the best of mis treffes, the most amiable of women! I have already given you her history, as related by the father of my lord, what remains of it from the time she parted from him is totally uninteresting. Suffice it to Say, that by a Series of misfortunes she was again reduced to the state of misery in which the Sweet compassion of our Louisa found her. 
\ 
Thou gracious power, that has So wonderfully conduced thy lovely votary to happiness, prepare her heart to receive, and endue her" with strength to Sustain it. Indeed, my friend, 
1 know not how to act in this perplexing particular, — the Surprise, the joy, the Sudden transition from the depth of misery to the highest transport 1 she will never, I fear, be able to Support it, but the discovery must be made, let the consequence be what it will, and I go to hazard the trial. -- -- - 
I thank God, it is over, and she still lives; 
— lives to happiness, to rapture. By the gentlest 
I 184 ] 
/ 
tlest degrees I unfolded myself to her, and ventured to difclose to her view the dazzling prospect of the bliss that awaited her. As I went on, her pulse, her very breath was Suspended, while her ear drank in with eager transport every word that I uttered; at last she dropped on her knees, and closing her eyes, and raising her trembling hands, she attempted an ejaculation of thanks, but fainted quite away. 
When her fensts returned, she threw her dear arms round my neck, and clasped me to her bosom, while tears of joy and gratitude deprived her of the power of utterance. She knows not yet how Small a distance divides her from the beloved of her heart; I have told her that her husband and daughter still live, and are in this kingdom, but did not dare to venture any farther. It will require the nicest circumspection to manage their interview in Such a manner, as to prevent its being fatal to them both. 
All my cares are now vanished. My brother and his louisa will be happy, as every obstacle to their union is removed; but I will 
not 
[ IS ] 
not inform my father that it is so, as I have Some reason to hope that he will consent to her becoming his daughter, even while he thinks her divested of every advantage that he formerly deemed of estimation. 
/ 
Yours ever and sincerely, 
^ f.' 
E. Jers s y. 
/ 
/ 
0" 
V 
I 
L E TT 

[_i86 ] 
LETTER XXXVII 
t 
miss Wyndham to miss Rochdale. 
dove brook. 
O My beloved Henrietta, rejoice with your louisa; my mother -- -- 1 have found a mother, 
my friend, and oh 1 — Such a one I — but you shall hear. — 
Yesterday morning my father received a message from Lady jersey, informing him that the Earl was returned, and requested to See him immediately and alone, as he had Some matters to communicate that concerned him very nearly. 
* 
My 
[ i8? ] - 
My father instantly obeyed the Summons, ind did not return till evening; he entered vith an air of triumph, he flew towards me, m.d. caught me in his arms.. Weep no more ny louisa, he exclaimed, be well, be happy; prepare your heart for a discovery, that will sill, that will oppress it with delight, prepare it for the reception of a mother, my child, the dearest, the tenderest of mothers, hat lovely, that beloved wife, whom I have b long lamented as lost, all gracious pro ddence has at length restored her to us, ind she waits with eager impatience to behold you. 
Paint to yourself my emotions, I was almost breathless with Surprise and joy; my father hipported me trembling to the carriage, the horses flew like lightning, and stopped in a Few moments at jersey Grove. 
He led me into the parlour, his countenance glowing with delight. I felt inyself all over agitated, in a manner that I know not how to describe, and did rot dare to lift up my eyes, till I heard a voice exclaim in maternal music, Ah! it is she! — my heart tells 
me 
[ 188 ] 
me it can be no other than my hri\k; I fainted in her arms, while they strained me to her bosom, but returning sense restored me to the dear delight of beholding her. 
Oh, my Henrietta 1 -- -- but I have not yet 
told you all. I may look up without presump tion to my Harry. Lord Granville will no longer hesitate at giving his consent, that I shall be blessed in the power of imparting happiness to my beloved. I enclose you a packet, which contains my mother’s history, and I will unfold to you a Series of most astonishing events, by which you will find thafmy father is no longer Mr. Wyndham, but Henry Earl of Arundel, with a fortune of at least 30, 0001. per ann. O that my brother was 
living to inherit it. a Sudden thought has 
just now struck me; your St. Alnais, your lover, was not he supposed to have been killed at the battle of Fontenoy? and did not healso tear himself away from the arms of an adoring parent? of a mother too -- -- -- -- Gracious 
powers! — if it should be So? — But now I recollect, the name which my mother assumed was not St. Alnais, but De Rouviere; yet 
might 
t 189 ] 
might he not have altered his name for a thousand reasons? Write I entreat you instantly, and resolve me. — 
Yours ever 
Louisa. 
I 
t 
4 
i 
LET 
\ 
190 ] 
LETTER XXXVIII 
The Same to the Same. 
dove brook. 
LESS me! my dear Henrietta! what can be the meaning of your silence? not a line have I had from you since you left the country, — happy as I am at present, the bare idea of your being involved in any distress, sills my heart with the most dreadful apprehensions, but yet I hope they are without foundation. 
I shall be with you shortly; the Earl and countess of jersey insist; on our accompanying them te London, where they will introduce my father to Lord Granville, not as Earl of Arundel, but plain Mr. Wyndham. There is a circumstance, though in their plot, which distresses me a good deal; my Harry, they say, must not be made acquainted with our happiness 

[ ipi 3 
ness. They will have it that his Surprise and joy will be the greater, if the discovery is not made till he first receives Lord granville’s consent to his union, with plain, simple louisa, untitled, undistinguished by any favours of fortune; these reasons are very insufficient to me, however I must acquiesce. 
I entreat you will write an immediate answer to this, or I shall not be here to receive it, as"we Set out for London in a very few days. 
Your own 
Louisa Wingrove. 
t 
s 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXIX 
/ - 
miss Rochdale to Lady Louisa Wingrove. 
O MY louisa, my lovely friend, blame not my Silence, impute it not to want of affection; alas! it is with grief, with agony of heart, that your entreaties at last constrain me to write, to dash your cup of happiness with the intelligence I must impart. 
My St. Alnais — ah, my God !^ — he is dying, — the gentlest, the Sweetest, the noblest— — my breaking heart 1 — and he loved me too, — loved me but too well, — how could I suppose that he did not? — circumstanced as he was, how could he have acted otherwise than he did? 
This 
[ 193 ] 
This long time I have observed an increasing languor and dejection on his Spirits, indeed they always Seemed oppressed by Some mental malady, but wdthin these few weeks past, his health has been visibly declining; however he appeared to do his utmost to conceal it, and accompanied us to town with a chearfulness more constrained than I had ever known it before. 
The day aster our arrival, my brother called me aside, Tell me, Henrietta, Said he, what are your thoughts of my friend? I believe I can guess at them pretty nearly already, but it is now necessary that I Snould be assured of your real Sentiments concerning him. — Forgive me, my sister, (for he observed by my colouring and confusion, that I was not prepared for the question,) I would not wish to offend your delicacy, biit I cannot bear to see my friend unhappy; he loves you with, an ardour as generous as it is tender; ’tis true he never made me the confident of his affection, but then h not his reserve in that particular, a convincing proof of his honour, when his look, his air, the involuntary glow of his cheek, and Softened tenderness of his voice 
K ^ and 
[ 194 ] 
t 
and manner whenever he approaches or addresses you, are undoubted indications of a passion, which I See he is determined to die rather than reveal, lest its motive should be mistaken for a sordid baseness, of which he is incapable, or that he should hazard the re pulse which he deems due to his temerity. 
Permit me then to make him a proposal, which I doubt not he will accept with the greatest transport. I will tell him that I have this long time observed what he took Such pains to conceal, and that I will take it upon myself to reconcile my father to your union, and leave it to him to Solicit your consent. 
5 
But, my dearest Edward, cried I, is it not possible that you may be mistaken respecting his regard for me, and then how mortifying to be rejected? — O fear not for that, my sister, replied he, I am as confident of the strength of his affection for you, as I am of my own existence. Here he hastily left me, though I called after him repeatedly to return. 
I retired to my chamber in a frame of mind which it is impossible to describe, and waited 
the 
I 195 1 
the event with the most anxious impatience; evening came, but no news from Edward, My father and mother were from home, and upon the Summons to tea, I met him alone in the parlour, his countenance was clouded with chagrin, and I almost feared to ask him what was become of his friend. I understand that question, my dear Slenrielta, replied he; I was not mistaken, he loves you with the most pas sionate fondness, yet he rejects the only means by which he can ever hope to become yours. It was with the most lively gratitude he heard, and with the deepest anguish he Seemed constrained to refuse his acquiescence in the proposal I made him, yet passion blinded me at the time to the singular nobleness of his conduct, and I fears resentedwith too much harsh ness my disappointment; he wept, he pressed me in his arms, he acknowledged that he loved you from the first moment he beheld you, that his passion increased with his knowledge of your disposition, to an ardency that was by much too great for his peace, that it. had already made him miserable, but should never make him base, and that you should at least have no reason to despise him for meanly taking advantage of a generosity (which perhaps 
K 2 might 
C 196 ] 
might draw upon me my father’s Severest indignation) to steal into an alliance of which he was unworthy. 
1 was provoked, disappointed, my pride was hurt, and the first wish of my heart was frustrated. I replied with pique. What then I you chuse to hold me under eternal obligations! and do not think I even merit' the pleasure of being grateful, — you reject my sister too, ^ she is it Seems unworthy your acceptance; tell not me of your passion, you never loved her, but it is very well, sir, — I do not desire that you should at all constrain your inclinations in this respect, for be assured I am too conscious, and too proud of my harriet’s perfections to force them upon the notice of any man. He Seized my arm, with a look of distraction, he would have Spoke, but I tore myself from him, and 
s 
flung hastily out of the room. 
I have now confessed to you, my dearest sister, the faultiness of my conduct, and must have a promise of your forgiveness, since my affection for you alone was the cause of my havingact ed amiss in this affair. 
, " I could 
[ 197 1 
I could answer him only with my tears, but 
t 
how was my distress augmented, when the Servant entering told us, he went to inform Monsieur St. Alnais that we waited tea, but that no body answering, tho’ he tapped repeatedly at the door, he opened it Softly, and Saw him stretched on the bed, weeping, and 
9 
Seemingly in the greatest affliction. 
. V 
t 
My brother started from his chair, and turned as pale as death; he flew to the chamber of his friend, and found him indeed as he Seared, in the utmost agony of distress. He threw himself beside him on the bed, and pressing him in his arms, entreated with tears his for givenest. In what have you, in what could you have offended me, replied the amiable, the generous St. Alnais; no, alas! it is I myself, who am the only object of my own resentment; as long as my Edward, and his lovely sister were happy, I mourned but in Secret the Severity of my fate; orphaned, outcast from the world, tortured with the pangs of hopeless passion,, one only consolation remained to Sweeten the bitter cup of anguish, a friend, the dearest,, the best beloved of 
friends,, 
f 19* 1 
friends, and he too casts me from him; he thinks me proud, insensibie, ungrateful; he is grieved, he is offended at me, and that, however involuntary, on my part, however irapoffible to be avoided. I can never pardon myself that. 
/ 
4 
Edward did all in his power to calm the agitation of his mind; he assured him in the tenderest manner, that the Sudden disappointment of his first and favourite wish was alone the cause of those harsh expressions, the recollection of which now gave him^so much pain, that he now Saw and admired, though he could not but regret the extreme nobleness of his conduct; that he was now become, if possible, dearer to him than ever, and that he would cease to importune him upon a Sub' ject which occasioned him So much distress, but leave it to friendship and his own heart, to determine him in what manner he would act. 
They embraced, and my brother feeing him excessively agitated, left him to repose, and came to inform me of what had pasted; my j. tears 
C 199 ] 
tears flowed in abundance, they would not he restrained, though I feared that he might consider them as a reproach, and perhaps be offended with me; but my foreboding heart anticipated its present misery, and its anguish would have vent. 
My father and mother did not return till late, and I hastened to bed that they might not perceive the dejection of my Spirits. Next morning, upon inquiring of Ildward for his friend, he told me with an air of the deepest affliction, that he was then extremely ill, and in a very high fever; to you I need not Say how this intelligence shocked me, till my fears were alarmed by the idea of losing. I was ignorant of the strength of my affection for him, and that and my tears almost deprived me of reason. 
I no longer studied to conceal the Secret of my heart; I called repeatedly on his name, I entreated permission to attend him; my dearest mother strove in vain to hide from my father the excess of my grief. He heard, he was enraged at it; he entered my chamber 
with 
[ 200 3 
with a face and voice of fury, raved, cursed his own stupid folly, for being So long blind ' to my romantic passion, and declared that if 3 did not give up all thoughts of this upstart Soldier of fortune, (as he termed him,) he would cast me alike from his love as his protection. 
Never, never, will I cease to love thee, my beloved, I exclaimed with a desperate courage. O my God (and I dropped on my knees) preserve him, heal him, restore him to my aching heart, or join us in death together. Since without him nothing in life can afford - me the Smallest consolation; my father looked sternly at me, muttered a curse, and flung out of the room. 
Would to heaven I was like you, my gentle, my saintlike louisa, that I could mingle a little patience, a little resignation with my griess, — but yet, — the distracting cause. 
He still continues extremely ill, and raves I am told incessantly of his mother and me. They will not let me even see him; they are 
all. 
r 201 J 
all, all against me., even Edward himself denies me this Small comfort; poor Edward, he is wild, frantic with apprehension at the danger of his beloved friend; I do not think he would Survive his death, and what then, oh! what, would be the fate of your 
t 
H. Rochdale. 
- i 
J ' 
9 
\ 
K 5 L E T 
C 202 ] 
LETTER XL 
0 
t ' 
Lord Mordaunt to Charles Ashworth, 
esq; at Bath. 
Berkley Square. 
^^eyond my most Sanguine, my most extravagant hopes of happiness am I blessed, my dear Charles. I wished, but Scarcely ventured to hope, that Mr. Wyndham would accept of my father’s, invitation. I was therefore Surprised and overjoyed at receiving a letter from my sister, informing me that her husband was returned, and that my Louisa and her father intended to accompany them both to London. I would have flown to meet and escort them hither, but my father was Something indisposed and requested I would wait their arrival. 
They came. ^i welcomed Mr. Wyndham, my sister, and her lord with a joyful, but hasty embrace, and took no notice at all of a 
strange 
[ 203'] 
strange lady who came in their company, bat Seizing the hand of my i^ouisa, and pressing it to my heart, L ied her trembling to my father’s apartment. 
He rose at her entrance. — miss Wyndham, my dearest father. Said I: he came forward, he took both her hands, and regarded her with a mixture of admiration and respect, I never Saw her look So exquisitely lovely; a blush of the Sweetest, the most delicate Sensibility, alternately coloured and deserted her cheek, while her gentle timid eye was modestly averted from his gaze. Charming girl 1 at last he exclaimed with fervour; upon my Soul, she is a clferming girl! do not tremble my Sweet one, I would not distress or offend you for the world, and in Spite of that world I must love and admire you. She raised his hand to her lips; he was affected, his eye silled. Sweet girl, he again repeated, and pressed her to his bosom. He then led her to a chair. Seated himself beside her, held her hand in his, and continued gazing in her blushing face. 
I left the room for a moment, and returned with Mr. Wyndham. Lord Granville again 
rosc, 
t .204 J 
tose, and came forward. The father of my lovely louisa, my dearest sir. Said si — They approached, they ^azed at each other, and both, as if agitated by the Same; emotion, changed colour, and Seemed deprived of the power of utterance; at last my father exclaimed. What is it you Say? — Wyndham I Wyndham! — I should know that face. — It is 
• 1 I. 
my Arundel, my Henry, — they rushed to each other’s arms. My Sedley, my beloved friend, cried Mr. Wyndham, it is indeed your arun oel, your happy Arundel, who embraces you. 
4 ' '. i ' 
‘ I will not attempt to describe their transports, my own were beyond the power of 
; 
expression. I flew to my Louisa, who stood 'trembling with astonishment and joy. I caught her to my bosora with silent exstasy, and pressed her to my beating heart. 
• Meanwhile Mr. Wyndham, whom we must now style Lord Arundel, went out, and quickly returned with a lady, (the same who had escaped my notice,) and introduced her to my father as his wife: he embraced her as an old, and very dear acquaintance. This was all a 
mystery to me. I returned to my louisa with 
astonish 
r 205 J 
astonishment, and asked her if she had indeed a mother? she replied in the affirmative, but that it was not many days since she had found her, and that her father and Lady jersey had desired that she might not mention anything of it to me, as the discovery could, not be made without making me acquainted with their rank, and her Sather determined to keep that concealed till he should try if generosity and affection alone would be Sufficient to get the better of Lord granville’s prejudice, and induce him to consent to our happiness. 
When we were all a little composed, Lord Granville turned to me, and taking my hand and closing it with that of my louisa, and raising his eyes to heaven — Thou hast already paired these hearts, my God, he exclaimed, I joined their hands while infants, and prayed that they might live to this ecstatic period; praised be thy name, and thy indulgent Providence that has thus happily accomplished my wish; I here join thern a Second time, and entreat thy blessing upon them. How awful, i how transporting this berediftion! I should be all rapture, if my louisa’s dejection did not damp my joy; she has a friend, an amiable 
friend 
[ 206 ] 
friend who Is In very great affliction, and she Is gone to comfort the poor mourner; I just Snatch a few moments to write while she Is a b Sent. 
With my first leisure I will give you the history of her amiable parents, it is indeed a Scries of most interesting events. You will wonder perhaps that Lord Arundel should be Surprised at meeting an old and quondam friend in my father, when he knew that a person of that title resided in this kingdom; but when they last parted, my father was only baron of Sedley, and he had no expectation of the Granville title or estate; he Succeeded however as next heir to both on his return from France, as the only fon of the late earl died of_a fall from his horse, and his father did not long Survive him. 
s 
Adieu, — my angel is returned, — not a Syllable more should the wealth of the Indies purchase from your 
Hi. Mordaunt. 
L E r. 
[ 207 3 
V 
4 
LET T E R XU. 
miss Rochdale to Lady Wilmot. 
\ 
V 
O My dear, dearest Lady Wilmot, Such happiness I Such an unexpected discovery!! St. Alnais, — he has Sound a mother, — a father, — a sister, — he recovers, he lives, and lives for his Henrietta. Lord Charles Wingrove, (for Such is now his title,) the brother of my louisa, in fortune more than my equal, in rank So much my Superior, can have no doubt of my father’s approbation. 
I was obliged to conclude my last in a hurry, to receive my lovely friend and her mother, who arrived in town that day with Lord, and Lady jersey. I stew to embrace her, and she presented me to the countess of Arundel 
her 
[ 20§ ] 
her mother, who Saluted me with politeness and alfection; louisa told me she had hinted to her mother her suspicions concerning St. Alnais, and she requested, if possible, that she might be permitted to see him. I replied that he was then delirious and very ill, but that if she and the countess would walk upstairs, I would try if it would be allowed us to comply with her desire. She eagerly assented, and followed with Louisa to his antechamber. I opened the door Softly, beckoned my brother to come out, and informed him of my errand. He bowed resstectfully to the countess, sighed deeply, and taking her hand, led her into the chamber. 
louisa and I stole after., St. Alnais was asteep, his face was half averted, and Lady Arundel gazed in Silence on the bed, as if afraid to approach; at last he uttered Some incoherent Sentences, Seemed disturbed by an uneasy dream, and called repeatedly on his mother and me. 
She started at the Sound of his voice, and stepping up with quickness, and bending over him, she Suddenly clapped her hands together, 
and 
[ ao9 ] 
and exclaimed, O, my Son, my fon! — have I then found you, but to lose you, my child; she Said no more, her voice faltered, her limbs trembled, and she would have fallen to she ground, had we not Supported, and placed her in a chair. 
> 
St. Alnais waked at the noise; he turned and gazed at her for a moment, and Springing up hi the bed, he feebly articulated. My mother — ph!! — fainted away. 
I know nothing of what followed, I was insensibie to everything about me; on opening my eyes, I found myself on my own bed, my mother, Edward, and Louisa beside me. I was alarmed, I Screamed out. Ah I. he is dead! he is dead! — why else those tears? — Not So, my dearest Henrietta, Said my brother, he is now Sully apprized of his happiness and I trust that the event will be Salutary; you will now be Suffered to attend him, and administer the only medicine he at' present stands in need of, to See, to hear you; what was formerly the Source of his disquiet, whll now be of the greatest efficacy in, contributing to his cure., 
Thus 
I 
t o I 
Thus you find me, my dear Lady Wilmot, the happiest, at least one of the happiest of my Sex. My Charles has already Seen his father, and lovely sister, the interview was exceedingly affecting; the Earl pressed me tenderly in his arms, called me generous girl, his daughter, his other louisa. My poor Edward is almost wild with joy. Lord and Lady jersey, and Lord Granville too have been here, what a numerous, what a happy family shall we be! 
"My Charles is now able to rise, and dress; he will not Suffer me a moment from his side. I sit by him, and read, and work, and chat by turns; he listens to me delighted, he holds my hand in his, he presses it alternately to his lips and his bosom. I Sometimes steal a look, and find him gazing on my face, with the tear of tenderness, and transport trembles in his eye. 
Lady jersey tells me she has already informed you of everything respecting the Earl and countess of Arundel. How interesting, hovv astonishing their history? hov/ intricate the mazy windings through which they have been 
conducted 
[ II 3 
conducted to happiness? Mysterious Providence! never let the virtuous mind despair of thy protection. 
Farewell, my beloved friend. Shall I not See you Soon? will you not honour a certain event with your presence? nothing would then be wanting to the enjoyment of 
Your 
H. Ro C HD ALE. 
} 
F I N I S. 
I 
♦ 
\ 
s 
) 
