J ^ ^ y. 
r n, E
v - r.
''. it ^'‘ ' ’: ^ *
Delicate Distress:
9
A N Q V E T.
'» -.. \., N
4,
I N L E T T E K S.
m
y
i
TWO VOLUMES.
N
By FRANCES. VOL. I.
*> •
#
l’amour northeast pent jamais subsister, sans pain, dans une ame delicate, mais fes pain rnefnes,
font, quelquefois, la source de fes plus' doux plaisirs
^ «./ *
/ Anonyme.
■V
DUBLIN:
Printed for T. WALKER, in dame stre et.
MDCCLXXV.
PREFACE.
Th E following work is submitted to the perusal of the public, with infinite timidity, and apprehension, as it is a species of writing, which I had never attempted before, - from a con fcioufnefsof my deficiency, in the principal article of such compositions, namely, invention.
The generality of novel readers may, therefore, probably, be disappointed in not meeting with any extraordinary adventure, or uncommon Situation, in the following pages; while persons of a more natural taste, will, I flatter myself, be rather pleased at finding the stories and i” Tnts, here related. Such as might, for I amrm they did, and most of them to my own knowledge, certainly happen, in the various contingencies of real life.
But though I have net attempted to feign any fable, I acknowledge that 1 have endeavoured to conceal some truth, by changing Scenes, and altering' circumstances, in order to avoid too marked an application, of the several stories and characters, to the real persons, f om whom I have taken my drama. We have no right over other persons secrets, come they to our knowledge through whatsoever medium of intelligence, they may. — Accident confers none, and confidence forbids it.
As there is no fictitious memoir here related, neither is there any factitious moral displayed, to the incredulous reader, amongst all the varia
3 ous
i PREFACE.
cus sentiments of this recital. I write not of puppets, but of men. 1 have endeavoured to describe the feelings, nay the foibles, of the human heart, such as we are naturally conscious of, in ourselves;; meddle not with the wires of the Jloicks, which only render us machines, by he\f\r\g^ ns to perform a part, of which we have no sensation.
I KNOW not whether novel, like the epopee, has any rules peculiar to itself— — it has, I may have innocently erred against them all, and drawn upon myself the envenomed rage of that tremendous body, the minor critics, - — But if I have spread a table for them, they shall be welcome to the treat, and let them feed upon it, heartily.
sensibility is, in my mind, as necessary, as taste, to entitle us to judge of a work, like this; and a cold criticism, formed upon rules for writ ing, can, therefore, be of no manner of use but to enable the stupid to fpea^, with a seeming intelligence, of what they neither feel nor understand.
l’abbe Troublet, in his essays, on literature and morals, says, “Si un ouvrage sans defaut Hoit
pojpble, tine le feroit qd. d un homme mediocre." And in another place, “lldy a rien de plus different, qu'n ouvrage sans defaut, Cf un ouvrage parfait."
I SHALL only add, that I Sincerely wilh the Subsequent pages had fewer faults to exercise the good, or ill nature, of my several readers; but I must, now, throw myself, and my book with all its imperfeflions on its head, upon the indulgence of the public, from whom I have received many favours, and to whom I am a truly grateful, and
Most obedient servant,
FRANCES,
4
V
THE
DELICATE DISTRESS.
4
LETTER i;
>
Lady Woodville, to Lady straevovti
Tell me, my dear philosophic, wise filler,
why those gloomy mortals, Ailed itkora lists, take so much pains to put us out of humour with our present state of existence, by declaring that happiness is not the lot of man, cc. Do they think these dogmas enhance the value of felicity, as unexpected blessings are mostly prized? or is it that themselves, Soured by mortifications and disappointments, which their vanity or caprice have occasioned, they are unwilling to acknowledge that degree of perfection, in any state, of being, which they do not themselves enjoy? but why do I argue, where I can at once confute? by declaring your Emily blessed to the utmost extent of her most rc mantic wishes; and feeling, if possible, an addition to her felicity, by knowing that you ffiare it.
A 4 Our
8
Our journey was delightful; .even the fun, which had not appeared for some days,, shone forth on us, in its full lustre: : Smiled'; the gladness of my heart gilded every object:; I thought the birds Sung .hymeneals, and I was sorry when even miss wefton’s fina, 'voice interrupted their still Sweeter notes. My lord was — himsels. I cannot Say more, to express all that is tender, elegant, and polite.
Lad Y Harriet, who, you know, is of the gentle kind, looked assent to our happiness; yet Srequent Sighs lescaped her. Why should she sigh?? have heard people Say they do So from habit, without Sensibility, or Sensation. Time and use may possibly work Such an effect, but this habit must certainly have its rise, either from fickness, or Sorrow. Perhaps lady Harriet may be in love. IS unhappily So, how truly to be pitied!
It is impossible I should yet be able to give yon any idea of this, fine old Seat, nor do I think I shall ever attempt it. I had much rather you should See, than read its beauties. I hate flourishing descriptions.. Modern writers over dress nature, asill judging women do themselves. They give her parterres for patches, hanging woods for lappets, and embroider her beautiful green gown, with all the colours of the rainbow. I flatter myself that your taste (for it iselegant) will approve whatever my lord has planned; andl shall hot infifi: much on your admiring the works of his ancestors. The closet, in which I am now writing is charmingly Situated. It commands — hut after what I have just Said,, let me command ray pen.
My lord, ever kind and attentive to me, wrote to his filler. Lady lawson, who lives eight miles off, to defer her visit, till this day, as it was probable I might have been fatigued with my
journey.
l5
>
rj
^ I
M a • *
d
«■
>
V
%
*' %* ^
TO
% ¥
.- I
IT
HIS gratle THE
V
s *
%
«
«
♦
DUKE OF BEDFORD.
\
S I R,
^ N \
a private Suffrage could add same to a public character, I should be the foremost to express my ‘ opinion of your grace’s merits; ‘‘ for I “they who speak thy praise Secure • “their own.” But as a compliment
is always intended, in an address of this nature, I Shall aftume the falc honour of it to myself, by declaring
[ A a to
00
f
* t
<
[ IV ]
to the world, that I am one of the
many, who have reason to fubferibe myself,
With respect and gratitude,
I
Your grace’s,
I
very, much obliged, and
4
most obedient servant
*
*

4
t s ’ *
I
I
• •
t •
\
0
/ »
s
k
9
ini:. l/j2.l>ic. /v, III t»1511n.11c)0. 9
journey. He speaks with such extreme tenderness of this lady, that I begin to love her, already, by anticipation.
But hark, her carriage rolls into the courtyard, and my heart Heps forth to meet her; but returns again to assuremy dear Fanny, that L am
her truly affectionate Sister,
E. Woodville. LETTER IL
Lady Straffon, to Lady Woodville,
May my dearest Emily ever continue an
exception to those opinions, which notwithstanding her present felicity, have too surely their foundation in this world’s experience. The bitter ingredients of life, are, however, more sparingly Scattered in the potions of Some, than others; and I believe there may be many who have passed through life, without Seeling one natural misfortune.' — But then, these favourites of heaven, unworthy of its bounty, are apt to create afflictions for themselves, and mourn over ideal for want of real distress.
This is a sailing L am not at all apprehensive of your falling into, at least for some years to come; but as I have ever acted as a mother to my dearest Emily, or at least, endeavoured, as far as it was possible for me, to supply that loss to her infant years, let me now, with the same maternal tenderness, warn her against the contrary extreme, that of being too much elated with her present joys, ‘‘ lest while stie clasps Ihe kills ~ them.’’
A ^ And
9
/
10
And now, my Emily, a truce with moralising, which I confess, would have been improper at this sera, but that you brought it on yourself; and I only appear in the character of the Slave, who attended the triumphs of the Roman conquerors, merely to inform them they were mortal. Gracious heaven! that such an information should be necessary, to any of thy frail creatures! But I find myself relapsing, and will learn from you to command my pen.
Poor lady Harriet! I am sorry Ihe should have cause to Sigh; for I agree with you, that sighing may be incidental, but not accidental. I hope the gay scene of receiving and returning visits, c. in which she will be engaged with you, may help to dissipate the cloud of her chagrin. I rejoice in the acquisition of your new lister; she must be amiable if lord Woodville loves her. What a compliment to my Emily! but let it rather make her grateful than vain.
I FEAR I shall not have an opportunity of approving my taste, by admiring lord woodville’s improvements, for sometime. Sir John, who is not a little jealous of your not having mentioned him, purposes going, for a couple of months, to Paris. Do not grow jealous, in your turn. I do not intend to accompany him, to that * gay Scene, which would have fewer charms for me, than the rational, and rural pjeasures, of Woodfort. But I design to inoculate my little Edward and Emily, during his absence. I shall not acquaint him with my intention, till it is over. I know he wishes it done; and I would spare him the anxiety of a fond father, upon Such an occasion. I know too he will be vastly obliged to me, tor laying hold of this opportunity; for it is an invariable maxim, that all men hate trouble of every kind, and ehoofe to be out of the
way,
0
jljljlci A I
way, when there is any disagreeable operation to be performed.
My Sister Straffon, who you know is to be married to Sir James Miller, has determined to take her chance with my children. She says she could not answer it to her conscience, to marry Sir James, who seems to be enamoured of her face, till fly has put her features beyond the common danger of an alteration. I went with her last night, to Ranelagh — as she said, to take leave of it: I hope but for a short time.
The attention of the whole assembly, was taken up with a beautiful foreigner, the marchioness de St. Aumont. I think I never beheld so much vivacity and sweetness joined, before, in the same countenance. I have just looked up at your picture, and thought it tacitly reproached me, for having so soon forgot my emily’s face. i’ll look again. Her eyes have more vivacity, I must confess, but yours a greater sweetness. Hers are black, yours blue. The advantage which each of you have, over the other, in this particular, may be more owing to colour, than expression.
The marchioness has been a widow, about a year, and does not appear to be above twenty. I am certain that if I were a man, I should be in love with her. I am glad she has left Paris, before my Slrafion goes thither — you may read Strepkon if you please. I shall take care to keep him out of danger, while he stays in London; or perhaps, she might keep him sighing at home, and so mar both his scheme and mine. The very best of these men, my dear Emily, have. hearts nearly resembling tinder, though they would have us think they are made of a sterner stuff — a sparkling eye sets them all in a blaze.
Lady
j
p ^ — X JL J*, M y 0A ^ r ma »■ JL ^ * -- ^ KA O
Lady Sandford, who dotes upon foreigners, has already engrossed her; perhaps, she may engage her to go with her into the country. If so, you will, probably, meet her, at York races; and if that should happen, it will be absolutely necessary for lord v/oodville to arm himself, cap a pie, with constancy, and for you alio, to rivet the joints of that armour,, with unaffected complacency, cheerfulness and love.
Lucy ard Sir James Miller are in the drawing-room. I fancy she is tired of a tete-a-tete,, as the fondest: lovers sometimes are; for she has just sent your little namesake, to request my. company. I must, therefore, quit you, to attend her summons. 1 shall expect a particular account of all occurrences, at Woodfort, as thq most minute matter, that relates to you, must ever be of consequence to your affectionate
Frances Straffon.
P. S. As I have yet time enough to send my letter, I shall acquaint you with the occasion of my being called from it, Lucy had just informed Sir James that she intended to be inoculated. He opposed it, with the utmost vehemence, and told many stories, upon that subject, to intimidate her. In vain; she continued firm to 1 ler purpose.
He then entreated that they might be married’ before the operation, and he would give his consent to her undergoing it, in len days after. This she absolutely refused; and, I think, with good reason. The altercation grew warm, on both Sides; I was chosen umpire; and gave rny opinion, in Savour of lucy’s arguments. Sir James said I was a partial judge, and quitted us. Soon after, with Some little warmth.
I WAS
I WAS sorry to perceive a starting tear, in lucy’s lovely eye,, and rallied her, on being low fpirited. She confessed Ihe felt a kind of foreboding, that the union between Sir. Jiames and her, would never be accomplished and yet said, she had not the least apprehension that her death would prevent it. I told her that I foresaw nothing else that could, as her beauty w’as even less in danger from this experiment than her life.
She replied, that they were both of them but transient blessings, and she had, happily, brought her mind to Such a state of resignation, as to be fully prepared for the loss of either; But she owned that she had not yet accustomed herself to the thought of resigning Sir James t however, if she was to lose his affection, she could better sustain that affliction, before marriage, than after.
Here her.eyes dreamed again, and while I was endeavouring to dissipate these gloomy vapours, Sir John luckily came in, to the relief of us both, as it put an end to the Subject of inoculation, which I told, you before, he is not to receive the least hint about, for the present. Both Lucy and he are affectionately yours, and rejoice with me in your happiness.
Once more, adieu, and good night.
F.. Straffon*.
%
#
LET
14 1 nid ili yi i rh uioisxxlooa
%
LETTER III
I
ODVILLE, to z/d'jy Straffon. My dear Fanny,
I Did not insift upon the permanence of human felicity. I said only, that there was lucsh a thing as perfect happiness, and, I hope, with a truly grateful heart, acknowledged myself in poflellion of that rare treasure. However, your letter has given a little alloy to it, and rendered it less pure and unmixed.
I FEEL for you on your children’s account, and for Lucy on her own. She has long determined on inoculation : she mentioned it to lady Harriet, before I was married, and made her will, the day after she became of age. I admire her fortitude, but fear I should not be able to imitate it.
Yo UR description of the marchioness, is really alarming, and has already made me jealous, not of lord Woodville, but of lady Straffon. If you Should ever become acquainted with her, she will certainly rival everybody, but Sir John, and the dear little ones. Perhaps lucy’s heroism may still preserve her some place in your heart, but the poor absent Emily will be totally forgotten, when you already begin to Hand in need of her picture to remind you of her.
My lord, and lady Harriet, both knew her in Paris, and both agree that the charms of her person, are inferior to those of her mind; and that she was still more admired, as un bel esprit, than as une belle dame. won’t you give me credit for the utmost generosity, in furnishing you with this account of my rival that is to be?
I HOPE
A X.AIA la llyr X JL laxo X xviloo. 13
I HOPE she may come to York races, that I may have an opportunity of examining this phoenix, with a critic’s eye; but it shall not be like the modern ones, who are, generally, so intent on spying defects, that they are apt to overlook the most striking beauties. This, however, may sometimes proceed rather from a want of taste, than a spirit of malevolence, and I am always inclined to pity those unhappy people, who never seem to be pleased.
Charming lady Lawson! What an engaging countenance, what a quick sensibility in her looks, what an irresistible Smile! I am not under a necessity of looking at my bracelet, to remind me that this portrait resembles lady Straffon : but lady lawson is taller, thinner, and more of the brunette. She is two years younger than my lord, and has been married six years, to Sir William lawson, who Seems to be what they call a jolly, good-humoured man. He hates London, loves fox hunting, and has, they Say, no exception to a cheerful glass, or a pretty lass I fear poor lady Lawson was thrown away; though Sir William is generally esteemed what they call a good husband. He behaves outwardly well to his wife, merely because she is so, and would have treated her chambermaid, in the same manner, if he had happened to marry her. What a mortifying situation, to a woman of delicacy!
The meeting between her and my lord,, was truly affectionate, and tender. She had not seen him since his return from making the grand tour. She thanked him, in the most graceful manner, for increasing her happiness, by ensuring his own, and she also hoped, that of so amiable a person, she was pleased to add, as lady Woodville. My lord replied, that if anything could add to his felicity, it must be her approbation of his choice,
which.
i6
which he was certain would increase with her knowledge of his dear Emily. He then joined our hands, bowed, and withdrew. How kind in him to bespeak her favour for me! But I shall endeavour to deserve, what she seems so ready to bellow.
Lady harriet’s dovelike eyes glistened with pleasure at her coufin’s politeness. She said there was a nearer relation between lady Lawson and me, than what my lord had given us, for we had kindred souls.
Here the arrival of a great deal of company, put an end to all conversation. Is it not surprising. Sister, that where there are most words, there is generally the least sense?? yet, it is always the cafe for I never remember to have met with anything like rational difeourfe, in a company that exceeded five or six.
Lord and Lady Withers, their two daughters, the eldest a fine woman, and once intended as a wife for lord Woodville. The point had been fettled between their fathers, but the death of old lord Woodville, happily for me, left the fon at liberty to choose for himself. She appeared to be in some confusion, when he saluted her,, and I felt myself a good deal distressed on her account.
Women are not such wretches, as men misrepresent them. Conquest, I own, is pleasant, but I detest a triumph. It finks one, methinks, below the vanquished. Her Sister is pretty, young and modest. I think the whole family amiable, and agreeable.
Sir Harry Ransford, and his lady. — Whaha pair! He old, gouty, and peevish — she young, handsome, and vulgar. His fon, by a former wife, polite, and sensible.. a well made, genteel person. My lord and he were intimate
abroad.
k
  17
abroad. I wish he would fall in love wilh our dear lady Harriet. Nay, he certainly will do So. I can’t possibly See how he can well avoid it.
Mr. waison, Mr. Young, Mr. Haywood, Sic. What a crowd I You would have pitied me, Fanny. Though I have been four months married, I was so be brided, and wished joy, that it made me downright. Lady Lawson was very stfeful to me, in assisting to entertain the company. She has, in her manners and address, a great deal of that graceful, and courtly ease, which I always admire in others, without having ever been able to obtain, in myfess. But all farther endeavours after this perfection, are, henceforward, at an end with me, and I hope now to.be able to preserve my mauvaise honte, during life; for after twenty, it is rarely to be overcome, without paying too dear, for the conquest.
In the afternoon,, the younger part of my lord’s tenants appeared in the avenue, neatly drelsed, and adorned with all the honours of the spring, and forming a long dance together. My lord proposed. our going out to see them; I found this had been designed, as there was a large carpet spread on the lawn, and seats already prepared for us.
When we were Seated, they pasted by, in couples, chanting a rustic hymn, in praise of Hymen, and strewing flowers before me. At length, they presented me with a beautiful, and fragrant wreath, which I immediately placed on lord woodville’s brow, while the villagers retreated Singing, and forming themselves into a ■rural dance, infinitely more agreeable to me, than any of the grands balets, at the opera, or * theatres.
%
i8
theatres. We left them at their sport, and returned into the house.
After tea, my lord proposed our following the example of his merry peasants. This was readily assented to, by every one, but Sir Harry Ransford, who told us he never lay within ten miles of his own house, after the twenty fifth of March; and insifted upon lady ransford’s going away with him, that instant, as he said they Should hardly be able to reach home, by his usual time of going to bed, at nine o’clock, summer and winter.
We all entreated that he would permit lady Ransford to stay, which he peremptorily refused, saying, it would be Setting an ill example to the bridegroom, to let women have their way. She said everything in her power to prevail but when (he found it in vain, and that he would force her away, she was provoked, at last to call him methodical monfier. He replied, that it was better to be one, by his own method, than hers, and hobbled into his coach. She followed, with the face of a fury. What a delightful tete i tete must theirs be!
Mr. Ransford staid, and danced with me. I think him the best dancer I ever saw. Our little ball got the better of all disagreeable reserve;; at supper, we appeared like old acquaintance, perfectly at ease, and quite cheerful. My lord was in remarkable good spirits, and even lady Harriet seemed gay. The withcrscare a charming family; both she young ladies plsy on the harpsichord, and Sing finely. \
We had an agreeable concert the next day; they staid till late in the evening. Sir William and lady Lawson went home this morrnng. We are to return their visit to morroyr.'^ Mr. Ransford is still with us. He is a great lover of music;

  19
Sic; I fancy there is not much harmony in his fa • house, and where the instruments of a matrimonial concert do not found in tinifon, the dist cordis most grating.
I SHALL long, impatiently, for every post, till I hear that all your patients are out of danger. lucy’s presages with regard to Sir James, are only the effeot of low spirits. I never saw any man, I think, more in love, than he appears to be. I cannot, however bear the thoughts of his consenting to her being inoculated in ten days after their marriage. Selfisti wretch! don’t let lucy see this paragraph.
I HAVE now Shown my obedience to my dear motherly sister’s commands, by entering into a minute detail of everything that has pasted at Woodfort. I am disappointed at not having the pleasure of feeing her here; yeti highly applaud
the difposition of that time she promised to bestovv on
her affectionate,
E. Woodville.
P S. Sir John has no reason to be jealous, while I can, with truth, declare I love but one man in the world, better than him.
LETTER IV
Lady Straffon, to Lady Woodville.
I A M much obliged to my dear Emily, for the entertaining detail of her amusements in the country. I am charmed with your account of lady Lawson, and am not, like my dear spoiled child, the least inclined to be jealous. I thank you for the flattering likeness you have drawn of
me;
20
me; may there be a shll stronger resemblance between us, in our love and esteem for lady Woodviiie!
I THINK you extremely happy in meeting with such an amiable friend, in so agreeable a neighbour. She will, I doubt not, be kind enough to inform you of the Cart du pais, where you are Situated : and what is of infinitely more consequence to your happiness, she may acquaint you with the particularities of her brother’s temper; for be assured.. charming as he is, that he has some, the knowing, and treating of which properly, may be the surest basis of your future felicity.
Sir John fet out for Paris, last Monday, and'; in an hour after, Mr. Ranby inoculated Lucy and my dear children. Though I have the firmest reliance on the goodness of Providence, and the fullest conviction of the general success of this operation, the mother could not stand it. I vas forced to retire to my dofet. I repented my not having acquainted Sir John, with my design, and thought, that if any misfortune should happen to either of the children, even his grief would Seem a constant reproach to me.
In this situation of mind, I poured forth my soul in fervent prayer, before the throne of mercy. My apprehensions vanished, the rectitude of my intentions confirmed my resolutions, and I felt myself perfectly calm, and resigned. Ama?, ing efficacy of true devotion! But indeed, my dear Emily, there is no other resource for the afflicted. No other balm to heal the wounded soul. By this, and this alone, we are enabled to triumph over pain, Sickness, distress, sorrow, even death itself.
Th e children are in a fine way, and have re eeived the infection. Lucy, it is thought, has
not.
• \
• i,
  2r
not. She infills upon being inoculated again, tomorrow. Sir James slipped with us, ou Sunday night; and told us with a grave face, that ho should not see us again, till this affair was quite over; for if he visited here, he could go nowhere ctse. I laughed, and bid him stay away, if he could.
Though I did not think him serious, he has hitherto kept his word, but sends a formal card, every day, to inquire of our healths. I see that his behaviour hurts Lucy, though She affects not to take notice of it. I hear he spends all his time with Miss Nelson. She is artful, and agreeable. I begin to Sear poor lucy’s presage may be verified.
Adieu, my dearest Emily, I shall not write to you again, till I can congratulate you on the perfect recovery of our invalids. Till then, and ever, I am,
most affectionately, yours,
F. S T R A F F O N.
L E T T E R V
p /
Sir Ja. Thornton, To Lord Woodville.
4
4 »• j. ‘. '.
TH E devil’s in it, if the honey moon is not
over yet, and you near half a year married. This is carrying on the farce too far, and looks as if you wanted to make us infidels believe, that pleasure was to be found in the sober and virtuous Scheme of matrimony.
I ALLOW your wife to be handsome. I will suppose her lively, and agreeable too; but then, have you not had time enough to be tired of all these perfections? and whenever that happened,
the
22
the more merit a woman has, the greater out dislike.
I SHOULD never forgive a wife that did not supply me with a reason for hating, when I grew weary of her. But I fancy I need not be in any manner of pain on that account; for the precious creatures have, generally, a quantum fufficit, of foible and caprice, to answer that end; at least, all those I have ever conversed with, appeared to be compounded of nothing elfe, after one month’s intimate acquaintance.
You will, perhaps, tell me, that lady Woodville is a very different kind of woman, from those I hint at. It may be so; and I will admit it. But prithee, Harry, is ftie not your wife? And in that comprehensive term, are not restraint, care, limitation of pleasures, and Squalling brats, included? But love her, if you will, and as long as you can : but, believe me, the only way to keep such a sickly flame alive, is by the fuel of ab fance.
Therefore, order your horses directly, and leave her, where She should ever remain, fixed to the freehold; while you shine forth, once more, among your old friends, at the Shakespeare. 1 write this, by order of the society, from which you will be excluded, if you do not appear, upon this summons, from
Yours, ct,

X E T
  25
LETTER VI
From Lord W o o d V 1 L L e to Sir Jamej
Thornton..
Dear Thornton,
I RECEIVED your lively letter; but wish you
had chosen a fitter subject to display your wit upon, than the old commonplace topic of matrimony. Were I not perfectly acquainted with your writing, as well as your humour, I should have thought your letter a counterfeit. You are no libertine, Thornton, and yet seem to take pleasure in adopting their gross, and contemptible sentiments.
Their general abuse of women is truly ridiculous: they pretend to know them, without having ever conversed with any, but that unhappy species of them, whose minds and manners are a disgrace not only to their sex, but to human nature itfels Profligates first betray to infamy all the women they can deceive; and then, by a double injustice, judge of she sex, from the examples they have made.
But come, my young friend, and convince yourself, that happiness is to be found in a virtuous connexion with an amiable, and agreeable woman. Order your horses, directly, I say; and leave your gross errors where they should ever remain, in Covent Garden.
I never was a member of any society at the Shakespeare, though I have spent some evenings there, both pleasantly and innocently. I love cheerfulness, wit, and humour, wherever to be met with; and when Sir James Thornton shall be added to our society at Woodfort, I shall not 4iave occasion to go in pursuit of any of them,
clse
24
el few here. As a farther inducement, we (hall go to York races. I know you have horses to run there. Hasten then, to your’s sincerely,
Woodville.
LETTER VII
Seymour, to Lord Woodville. My Dear Lord,
I ARRIVED in London, the day after you left it : how unfortunate to have missed the friend
t
of niy heart! to whom I have a thousand thing to communicate, that will not bear the cold, slow forms, of narrative letter writing.
But one truth I must pour into your bosom, from mine, that almost bursts while I repeat it. The lovely, the angelic Charlotte Beaumont, has fled from these fond arms, and taken refuge in a convent! I beheld her renounce the pomps, and vanities, of that world, which she was born to adorn. None but her kindred angels ever appeared so beautiful as she, when led like a blooming sacrifice to the altar.
As fly advanced up the ifle, She caught wjr eyes', Ihe stopped, and figh’d; but quickly recollecting herself, turned her's to heaven — then with a ray of that ineffable tenderness, with which we may suppose angelic beings look on mortal woes, fly turned them full on me but ah! too soon res

called them, and passed along, with all the dignity of conscious virtue!
How I got out of the convent, I know not: my senses vanished with her — I was fifteen days delirious; and but for the officious kindness of Wilson, should not now feel those poignant agonies.
  25
nies, that rend my heart. O Woodville, to lost such a woman, by my own folly! that fatal duel, in what misery has it involved me! When I am calm enough, if that should ever be, I will copy her lajl letter, and send it to you; I would not part with the original for worlds, though it has destroyed my peace in this.
Will you forgive your wretched friend for breaking in one moment on your present felicity?
I hear' you are completely blessed— — is the only ray of joy, that ever can, or shall pervade the gloom, in which my fate is involved. Happy Woodville! to triumph over an unhappy paf sion, and now to feel the transports of successful love!
But let me entreat you, as you value your future peace not to see the marchionefs.your wounds are not long healed, and may all bleed again. She is a true Calypso I therefore, my friend, stiun her ensnaring wiles! and remember you are accountable for the happiness of an amiable, and innocent young woman what a breach of honour, even to hazard it!
This Single consideration will, I am certain, be a more powerful preservative to your generous heart, than all the philosophic reasonings in the world; which too well I know, were never yet proof against strong passion.
Adieu, my friend: that you may continue to deserve and possess, every happiness this world can give, is now the warmest wish of your unhappy
Seymour. '
\
B L E T‘
/
26
LETTER VIII
Woodville, to Lorrf Seymour.
My dear, unhappy Friend,
I A M truly sorry that I had left London before your arrival ■ you given me
the least: hint of your intentions to return, I Should certainly have staid to meet^you : andl would, at this moment, sty to pour the balm ol friendship into your wounded bosom, but that Sir Jarnes Thornton, whom I have invited to spend Some time with me at Woodfort, and go with me to York races, came here last night.
He is quite a stranger to lady Woodville, and all this family, and would certainly confider it as the highest breach of hospitality, if I were to leave him in the hands of a parcel of virtuous wo tnen, which are a race of beings, that he is totally unacquainted with. He is young, has a very large fortune, and many amiable qualities; but his education has been so shamefully neglected, that he is in imminent danger of becoming a prey. to sharpers and.prostitutes.
Even you must havesmiled, to have seen this young man, who is made up of frolic, and vivacity, look as frighted and abashed, before lady Woodville, who is gentleness itself, as a young country lady, who has never been out of the family mansion, when first presented at St. james’s. But I hope this timid awkwardness will wear off in a few days: and as I know nothing that can refine the sentiments, or polish the manners so much, as the convcrfation'of elegant women, I wish to sheep Sir James, for sometime, amongst
US.
My
  27
My eoufin, lady Harriet Hanbury, is here; and a very lively girl, miss Weston, a near relation of my Emily! Your old friend Ransford, Spends much of his time with us also. What would I not give to tempt you hither! You shall retire when you please; read, walk, and muse alone; and when you are disposed, my Emily shall play to you. Some of the Sweetest:, Softest airs, the very food of lov®, accompanied with the sweetest, softest voice, you ever heard. Harriet, who is of the melancholy cast, and, I fear, unhappily in love, shall Sigh, in concert with you; and Thornton, and miss Weston, shall Sometimes make you Smile.
I CONFESS to you, my dear Seymour, that t was both shocked and Sorry, when I heard that the marchioness was in England. Lady Woodville was the firsl person who insormed me of it; but, utterly ignorant of there having ever been any connexion between us, Ihe did not perceive my emotion at her name.
Cruel woman! does she wish again to disturb the peace of a heart, which she had well nigh broken! but I defy her power. — In lady Woodville I have found all that is amiable in the most lovely Sex; Sensible, beautiful, gentle, kind, and unaffectedly good.
True, she is not mlftress of those lively Sallies of wit, that dazzle the understanding, and captivate the heart. Her form, though lovely, has nol the striking elegance, the nameless, num berless graces, that wait on every motion of the • marchioness!
But why do I Suffer myself to dwell upon her charms? or make a comparison injurious to the amiable woman, who deserves my love? why can I not Say, who posteffes it! Ah, Seymour! it is impossible to regulate the motie ns of
B 2 the

the human heart, by the cold rules of reason. Not all the charms of the whole sex combined can ever render mine susceptible of those agonising transports it has already known. Yet let me boast, that it is as impoltible for her, who first occasioned, to revive, as for any other woman, to inspire them.
If this was not the cafe, I should have made a worthless present to my Emily, when I gave her both my hand and heart: and though I allow the latter not to be an adequate return for hers, She shall never be able to discover its deficiency, by any word, or action of my life. This I can safely promise.
I HAVE purposely avoided mentioning your lost, your lovely Charlotte! When you are more at ease, I know you will acquaint me with the .particulars of your distress. Why may not that happy sera be hastened, by a reliance on all the tender cares of friendship, which you may certainly depend on, from
Your ever affectionate
Woodville.
P. S. You have a house, within a mile of York; where we have spent many happy days — ‘‘ Days of ease, and nights of pleasure.” Who knows but we may there recover our juvenile tastes and passions! impossible! As well when advanced in life, might we hope to recover our youth, in those fields where we once were young. — But is that house untenanted } Will you be our host? Or have you let, or lent it?
«
LET
  29
LETTER IX
Lord Seymour, to Lort/ Woodville.
My dear Woodville,
"TOUR letter has added to the affliction I am I ^ already involved in. I think I am fated never to polsefs any of those blessings, without which life is a burden. The object: of my fondest:, tenderest; wishes, already torn from my bleeding heart; there remained yet one consolation;; generous, and affectionate friend; and he, inhuman suicide, is going to rob me of himself! what an hard lot is mine! all that I ever loved, devote themselves; and by their misery, I am twice undone I
But stop, my friend! and let my warning voice prevent your rushing down the precipice! you must hot, shall not, see the marchioness. I will go to Woodfort,. though heaven knows how unfit to mingle in society, merely he psevstn^
your going to York races. the Syren will be
there. -- -
I WENT, last; night, to pay a visit to my stster, lady Sandford, and there I met your lovely enemy. She asked many questions about you, but many more about lady Woodville, and wanted me to dray her picture. I told her that I had not seen her, for some years; that she was then extremely young, but had, I thought, a very near resemblance to her ladyship, which was pronouncing her a perfect beauty.
I SAID this, to prevent her finding fault, which she certainly would have done, had f attempted a particular description. She favr through my design, but would not let me triumph in the success of it, then smiling said“ “
B 3 me!
30
me !: perhaps that was the reason be chose her. “— Constant creature! this is a compliment, for which I think myself more indebted to. him, than for all the fine things, he ever said, ‘‘ or wrote to me.”
I HOPE,, madam, his lordship had other motives. “O fie, lord Seymour, how you love to mortify? but' pray let me indulge my va nity a little. As the man is married, and to “a perfect, beauty too, there can be no danger in avowing my sensibility of his regards. This, you know, 1 never did, while he was ■P single, and I might have hopes. But women have strange caprices.
“H OWE VER, I can affure you I have not ‘‘ the least design upon his heart. It would be the height of vanity, indeed, to attempt ri vailing this It would be the
lieiglit of cruelty, madam, but to wish it, “I “declare I cannot see it in that light, my lord; 1* lor such a woman can never want adorers.” "Our marri<=d ladies, madam, seek for that character, only in their husbands“ “now, “my lord, you want to impost on me, as I “am a stranger;; you cannot deceive me, “for I know numberless instances to contradiol your assertion, and not one to prove it. And “I really think that London is as much the seat of gallantry, as Paris.” —
The arriyal of other company gave the conversation a general turn; but what I have repeated, is, I think, sufficient to make you fly from a woman, who audaciously owns her designs against your peace. As she talked of going to York, my sister, who is to accompany her, requested I would let her have my house, which I readily assented to; but were it unemployed, I would refuse it to my dear Woodviiie.
Yotr
  31
You see the share is laid, and will you felf devoted rush into it; I know you, Woodville, you cannot live with loss of honour, and it is impossible to preserve your’s,. if in your present situation, you can be again drawn in, to dote upon this — But I will not abuse her. I shall fet out for Woodfort tomorrow,, there enforce every argument I have used to preserve you from yourself.
Till then, adieu.
Seymour.
w w w Tip Ttr w Tsr Tir w w TIT oit 'r w w
L E T T E R X
Lady Woodville, to Lady Straffon.
I CANNOT tell my dearest Fanny how much her last letter affected me; nor can I sufficiently express my admiration of that happy turn of mind, that enables you to'triumph over every difficulty and distress, and to rise sofar superior to what any one might reasonably expect, from the gentleness of your nature, on every trial.
How happy is it for your poor weak Emily, that she has had nothing to struggle with! she would have shnk beneath the stightest weight, and give a loose to tears, and to complainings. But let the goodness of that all wise Providence, who proportions our trials to our strength, fill my heart with the warmest gratitude, and let me, “ever bless, and praise his name.”
I HAVE no Sort of doubt but vou are eased of all a mother’s fears, by this time, and that the dear little ones are prattling round you, with their usual cheerfulness; while you feel, even an ad
B 4 ditional
32
ditional tenderness stem recollection of the danger they have past.
I HAVE very uneasy apprehensions for poor Lucy: I almost wish she may not receive the infection. — There have been numberless instances of persons who never had the smallpox; and I think it is like forcing nature to make a second effort.
I DETEST Sir James Miller; and hope, with all my heart he may never be married to Lucy, as I am very sure he never will deserve her.
Our family party has received some very agreeable additions Since I wrote last. There is a most delightful contrast between our visitors. Sir James Thornton, lively, boyish, with a good natural understanding, totally unimproved, without the least idea of good breeding; and yet,
that want is amply Supplied, by what I call natural politeness. But if “good breeding is the blossom of good sense” ” ought to find out Some other term, for that species of form, which is only to be acquired in courts. There was such an awkward reserve about poor Thornton, for the first three days he spent at Woodfort, that I looked upon him as a Hottentot : but that rough cast is now worn off, and he is really agreeable, and entertaining.
Lord Seymour, our latest guest, is, really, an accomplished gentleman; an elegant form, and affable countenance, bespeak your favour, at first Sight, and his every word and action insensibly engage your regard. Yet, lavish as nature ha s been to him, there seems to be something wanting to his happiness. There is a tender air of melancholy diffused over his whole form, with such a softness in his voice and manner, as is rarely natural to the gay Sons of prosperity. His
fortune
± rj jcj JA la .n. i Ej la lo i i\xl dsto. 33
Fortune is ample, and his birth high; it must then be that source of the most poignant sorrow, ill-fated love, that has disturbed his peace. Yet,
[ think, he could not love in vain, unless there was a prior preposhstion. I long to know his story: I feel myself interested, as for a brother.
He acquainted my lord with his intentions to vistt us, the night before he came. We were all engaged to dine at Sir Harry ransford’s, the next day; and her ladyship had got the old knight to consent to her having a ball. My lord remained at Woodfort to receive his guest. I accompanied the young folks to Sir harry’s.' — ■ After tea, I entreated lady Ransford to excuse my leaving her, without taking any notice of it to the company. She was so obliging as to con -- Sent, and I drove home directly.
My lord Seemed Surprised, and pleased, at feeing me; and, as he handed me from the coach, said, with an air of the utmost tenderness, I am much obliged to you for your attention to my friend; and can with truth affure you, that your company is the only agreeable addition that could be made to our present society. My little heart exulted at the kindness of this compliment; as to please, or oblige him, is and ever will be, its highest ambition. Notwithstanding this, I thought my company was a restraint on them, and therefore retired soon aster supper.
It was four o’clock, when my lord came upstairs. I was miserably apprehensive he was ill, as he sighed often, and was uncommonly restless. But my fears are now fled, like a morning dream. — He seemed perfectly well at breakfast. Lord Seymour and he are gone into the gardens.
The coach is just returned with the boys and girls; and Thornton is, this moment, come
B 5 into
34 ihejonl lcalllolsikess.
into my drelting room, to tell me all about it, as he expresses himself: but he is too civil to speak, till I leave off writing. I muss, therefore, impost Silence on myself, to relieve him from it; and so bid my dear Sister,
Adieu.
E. W.
LETTER XI
/
Lady Straffon, to Lady Woodville.
fw A S vastly pleased with my dear emily’s letter. — There is infinitely more merit ia looking up to the Almighty, in our prosperity, than adversity. Praise is surely the noblest:, and, of course, the most acceptable sacrifice that a human creature can offer to the great author of good. Mr. Addison very justly obstrves, that “a mind, which has the least turn to religion, ** naturally sties to it in affliction.” We then feel our own infussiciency; we are, humbled by sorrow, and perhaps only then deduce real satisfaction from a thorough conviction, that there is a superior Being, whose aid is graciousty pro mistd to those who sincerely stek it. But, sur i roundeffshy the delights of life, youth, fortune, gaiety, and distipation, we too frequently become forgetful of the source, from whence our blestings slow; and while we are indulging all our appetites in the delicious stream of happiness, it becomes impregnated with the qualities of Lethe, and renders us unmindsul of its fountain.
But let me be truly thankful, that the sister of my love, the child of mv care, is not only
blessed
4 •
1 tiil Jl. 1 35
blefsed with the insignia of happiness, but with a heart capable of the first virtue, gratitude; which, I hope, will ensure to her the long, and full possession of all earthly good.
I NOW can tell my dear prophetess, her hopes are accomplished. — The mother’s fears are lost in the happy certainty of my children’s perfect recovery. — But the friend still suffers— — Lucy continues extremely ill, though, thank God, this day pronounced out of danger. T he smallpox was as favourable to her, as possible; but the emotions of her mind, on account of that wretch. Sir James Miller, has thrown her into a violent fever.
He is, this day, to be married, to Miss Nelson!' !' she is yet ignorant of: but on the first: day that she Sat up, she received a kind of leave taking letter from him, excusing his perfidy, by her want of complaisance to his request. Said, he had reason to apprehend, that a lady, who seemed so little inclined to oblige him before marriage, would not, make a very complying “wife; — that he was glad to hear her beauty ** out of danger, as there was no doubt, but it; ** would procure her a better husband than him “and that he should endeavour to look out for a wife, who was less anxious about her sea tures.” Was there ever anything so provok -- ing 1 This isaddinginfolence to baseness;;
Sir John was here I am sure a duel would ensue— — know not how to act in this affair. — • I cannot bear the thoughts of his triumphing in his villainy; nor yet can I think of hazarding Sir john’s life, to punish such a scoundrel. Swift says, the occasions are few, that can induce a man of sense, and virtue to draw his" ** sword.” I am certain, were he living, he
would allow this to be a justifiable one.
But
J
36
But as a wife and mother, I most Sincerely hope. Sir John may never hear of his infamous behaviour : but what excuse to invent, for breaking off the match, I know not. Sir John is jealous of his honour, and will inquire minutely into the affair. I will refer it all to lucy’s prudence : she loves her brother, and is a Christian.
You are an admirable painter. I should have known Lord seymour’s picture, if you had not fet the name to it; all but that shade of melancholy, which you had thrown over it. He was ' extremely lively when I knew him; but I have not seen him, Since his return to England.
You have made me perfectly acquainted with Sir James Thornton: I saw his precipitate stride into your dressing room, and his short stop on finding you were writing. It reminded me of the snapping of a watch fpring. Have you ever had one break in your hand? Lucy has just awoke from a refreshing steep, and, on being told I was writing, she desires to see me immediately. I will return to you, again.
What an affecting interview! That odious idiot. Sir James Miller, has, “like the base In“ “thrown a pearl away, richer than all his tribe.” When I went into lucy’s chamber, she desired every one to withdraw : then taking my hand, andpreshng it to her lips, what infinite trouble must I have given to the compastionate heart of iny dear lady Straffon! but I hope you do not despise me : it was the weak state of my body, that overpowered my mind. But now, that I have recovered my senses, I am amazed how I could be affected, by the loss of such a man. — — Did I say loss?? 1 fear, I rave again. But I grieved for an ideal character; and am much obliged to Sir James, for removing
the mist from before hiy eyes, and showing himself
  37
self in his native colours. How happy the delu, Sion vanished so soon 1 Had it continued but a little longer, I should have been a wretch indeed! What a misery, to despise the man, whom it is our duty to love and honour! Yet such might have been my fate! should I have been unpardon ably criminal, my dearest Sister?
I ENTREATED her, uot to think upon the subject, but to calm her spirits;; that I would converse with her on any other topic, that she pleased— — begged my attention for a few minutes; said she had wandered from her purpose, and asked my pardon for detaining me. You are writing, lady Straffon; perhaps to my brother. Then raising herself on her knees, in spite of my efforts to hinder her, let me, in this humble posture, entreat you, my dearest lister, not to mention what has passed, to Sir John. I know his natural bravery, joined to his love for an only Sister, would tempt him to call Sir James
Miller to an account. -- -- Good God! what
might be the consequence! He has done me no wrong; and should any misfortune happen to my brother from this event, I could not answer for my senses. And were even the aggressor, for such indeed he is, to fall, I never should know peace again.
Here she was quite overcome by weakness, and sunk down in a flood of tears. I said everything in my power, to assuage her grief; and gave her the strongest assurances, that I neither did, or would mention a syllable of the affair to Sir John. She told me then I had restored her tranquillity; and she should soon be well, and able to contrive some plausible pretence to her brother, for breaking off the match : and as this would be the first falsehood she had ever told him, she hoped it might be considered as a pious fraud
only. After
30 1 HE oenlca 1 E OIS 1 kjlss.
After this conversation she grew perfectly composed;; left her retired to rest : but, I fear,. Sne has disturbed mine,, for this night. What an amiable heart is hers? While yet smarting with undeserved wounds, she would preserve the cruel wretch who inflicted them! 1 will religi eufly keep my promise to her; yet cannot help sincerely wishing, that his crime may be his punishment; and, I think, he bids fair for being overpaid in kind.
Miss Nelson, now lady Miller, is at least twenty-nine, and has been a remarkable coquette these ten years; yet never could catch a poor unguarded fly in her nct, till Sir James rushed in.
— She was perfectly acquainted with his attachment to Lucy; had requested to be her bride maid; yet could think of Separating, them for ever! May they be mutual avengers of each other’s perfidy!
I FEEL myself in an unchristian mood; I cannot help it; I pity folly, but detest vice!' Alas! my Emily, L am too severe for they are, in general, fynonimous terms. I will, in charity,, wish you good night; for, if I write on,, I shall rail more therefore. Adieu.
F. S.
LETTER XII
lady.woodville, to Lady straffon My dear Fanny,
I AM so violently provoked at the insolent baseness of that abominable Miller, that I cannot find words to express my resentment. I do not think yon seem sufficiently rejoiced at
lucy’s
1
THE DELICATE distrebs. 39
lucy’s escape from such a monster: for my part,
I am delighted at the thoughts of his being married to such a woman as Miss Nelson— — she render him just as miserable as he deserves to be 1 — His greatest enemy could not wish him worse.
But there are more wretches in the world, than he; and Lucy is not without companions in affliction. The willow grows on purpose for our sex;; were it to be watered, only by the tears drawn from beauteous eyes, by the perfidy of men, it would need no other moisture. Poor lady Harriet! an accident has discovered the cause of her too frec^uent sighs.
Y ESTERDAY moming after breakfast, when the gentlemen had retired to their Separate amuse ments, lady Harriet, miss Weston, and I, were in my dresting room. Lady Harriet took up prior’s Poems, and was reading Henry and Emma, to Fanny and me, who were at work; when in rushed lady ranssord, in a riding dress, and begged I would permit her to introduce s gentleman, an acquaintance of her’s, whom she accidentally met on the road, as she was coming to Spend the day with me. She concluded, he was a particular friend, whom she had not Seen Sora long time. I immediately consented; and Said I was Sorry my lord was not at home, to receive the gentleman.
She ran out directly, and led in Captain Barnard. — While she was presenting him to me, the book fell from Lady harriet’s hand, and she Sank motionless upon the couch. As Soon as the captain cast his eyes on her, he appeared almost in the Same condition : the colour forsook his lips, and he could hardly breathe. Lady Ransford looked with a fpitefulkind of astonishment, and cried out, What can all this mean I is she ' subject to fits? Fanny, and I, were engaged in
trying
40 THE D ELIC ATE DISTRESS.
trying to recover lady Harriet, I began to fear in vain — Life seemed, for some minutes, absolutely fled. — The wretched captain looked the picture of despair— — moment Ihe opened her eyes, he bowed,, left the room, mounted his horse, and rode off.
We conveyed lady Harriet to her chamber, and laid her on the bed; when a plentiful shower of tears seemed to have relieved her. I left Fanny Weston with her, and returned to lady Ransford. She seemed in a violent passion, that the captain was gone. — What has he to do with lady harriet’s faintings? She was very sure it was only an air she gave herself. She thanked God, she was not subject to such tricks. She never fainted in her life, and was quite certain she never should, cc.
I CONGRATULATED her on the goodness of
her constitution;; lady harriet’s was extremely delicate, and that she had not been well for sometime. This did not satisfy her and she continued out of humour at the captain’s desertion, the whole day; several time repeating, I do not suppose he ever saw her before; of what' consequence was her fainting to him? and I encouraged her in this opinion, though far from believing it.
I SAID, his retiring was a mark of politeness,, the presence of a stranger must increase the confusion we were in. Nothing thatl said could pacify her. 1 therefore suffered her to mutter out her dissatisfaction without replying, for the remainder of the time she staid, which was not long after dinner. — She said she should be afraid to ride with only one servant, after it was dusk.,
I NEVER was better pleased with the departure of a guest. 1 longed to see poor Harriet,
who
  41
who had not left her room, and flew to her the moment lady Ransford was gone. She looked abashed, and held down her lovely eyes, which were yet bathed in tears, when I approached her; — but the tenderness with which I inquired concerning her health, seemed to re aflure her.
You are too good to me, my dear lady Woodville; such weakness as mine scarcely deserves your companion : and I can only presume tohope for it, by the most unbounded confidence, which I should lorg since have reposed in your friendly bosom, but that I thought it cruel, even for a moment, to interrupt that happiness which you so well deserve. But as the accident which happened this day, must convince you, that there is a secret sorrow which preys upon my heart, I will readily acquaint you with the cause of it, left the tenderness of your nature should make you imagine me more wretched than I really am.
You must suppose, my dear, said I, that your. situation, this morning, alarmed me extremely; but I have long thought there was some secret source for that soft melancholy, which you vainly endeavour to represent as conftitutionah But do not let this remark make you think yourself under a necessity of disclosing your secrets to me. I am far from desiring to pry into them : but should rejoice at having it in my power to do anything, which might alleviate your distress. And if my participation of your sorrow can sooth it, but for a moment, it will more than repay me, for what I feel, in knowing that you are unhappy.
She said, she was not then capable of making the least return to my kindness, though perfectly ienfibleof it; but that, as soon as she was able, she would write out her short story for me, and lady Straffon. She said, Lucy knew something of it, but not the whole; and desired she might
see
42
see it, as a kind of consolation under her present circumstances.
As soon as I receive, I will send it to you. Pray present my love to Lucy, and tell her, I entreat her company at Woodfort, whenever she is able to travel. Change of air, and objects, will forward her recovery. Why cannot you, and the little ones, accompany her, and complete the wishes of
Your affectionate,
E Woodville?
tw w w Ttr ar w w or titw, w
LETTER XIII
P
hady Wo OD VILLE, to Lady Strafton. My dear Sister,
ITH I s morning, received the enclosed, which has engaged my attention ever Since; I have but just time to send it to you, without the smallest comment, but, as it may remain longer in your hands, I shall expect it to be returned with notes variorums
I HAVE absented myself, from our family party( ( is indeed a charming one) except during dinner, this whole day; I shall return to it, with a double gust, from a certainty, shat amiable as they who compose it are, in their manners, and persons, their hearts are. still more valuable. Haste then, my dearest Fanny, and Lucy, to partake, and perfect the most delightful society, in the world,
sincerely prays your
E. Woodville.
The
*■ 4
0'
  43
1
The Memoir of Lady Harriet Hanbury.
As the strongest mark of my ftncerity and gratitude, to my dear lady Woodvile, for all her kindness to me, I lit down to fulfil the voluntary promise I made, of acquainting her with the few events of a short life, whose duration has only been marked, by sorrow;; as, “to mention, is to suffer pain, ” I chose to save her gentle heart the uneasiness, of feeing the distress, which the recollection of unhappy circumstances, must ever revive, where the sufferer is the re later. I must now, like all biographers, step a little back, to give you feme account of the authors of my being, and then proceed with a plain narrative, submitting my weaknelses, and follies, without the least reserve, to your friendly eye.
My father, was eldest fon to the Earl of G -- -- -. During my grandfather’s life, he became
passionately in love with my mother, who was a daughter of colonel stanley’s, and reputed one of the greatest beauties of that time. My father well knew it would be in vain to hope for the earl’s consent to his marrying, without a large fortune, let the merits of the lady be ever so great; as his estate was extremely involved, and that he had four children, by a second wife, unprovided for.
mother’s portion was only four thousand pounds, but her father, who considered her birth, beauty, and accomplishments, as full equivalents to any fortune, when he found the earl was not acquainted with my father’s courtship, forbade his daughter ever to see her lover more, as his pride would not suffer him to have matched her with a prince, clandestinely.
.
44
The lovers reduced to this unhappy Situation, after much fruitless Sorrow, had recourse to the usual alternative, and married, without consenh on either fide. The affair was not long kept Secret, and the earl, whose rage was without bounds, accused the colonel of being privy to the marriage, and of drawing in his fon — he also lavished every kind of ahtife upon my mother, and stopped the allowance he had for some years given to my father
The colonel, though highly offended with his daughter, resented the cruelty and injustice of the earl’s behaviour, and Sent him a challenge — The duel was prevented by my sather’s address, but the most implacable hatred ever remained, between the old gentlemen; which communicated itself to every branch of the families, except my father and mother, who were the most perfect patterns of conjugal tenderness.
notwithstaistding my father’s increasing fondness for his lovely wife, the unhappy feuds, which she thought herself the occasion cf, preyed on her tender mind, and so much weakened her delicate frame, that, giving me life, she lost her own; — fatal exchange for her unhappj orphan! My father was quite distracted at hes loss, and the colonel, who had been reconciled tc them both, for sometime, was obliged to restrain his own affliction, to endeavour to confoh my father, and engage him to preserve his list by frequently presenting me before him. ¥
“Yes, he would then say, I will live for th(
w
protection of that only transcript of my ange “Harriet. Twill watch over her ristngvirtues and endeavour to restore to the world, fom( part of that perfection, my cruel father has de prived it ost” For four years, his fondnef
foi
%
  45
for me was unabated, and I appeared to be the foie object of his attention and regard.
About that sera, the earl wrote to him, and a reconciliation soon ensued;; terms of which were, that as ray father had gratified himself by his first marriage, he should oblige the earl, and Serve his family, by a second. My father, whose nature was gentle, was soon induced to comply, and, as I believe his real fondness for my mother, shad rendered all women indifferent to him, the choice of his future lady was entirely left to the. earl, who, you may suppose, would rate her value, only by her fortune. My father paid his addresses in form, and even without the least degree of liking on either fide the match was concluded.
The perpetual scenes of discord which succeeded to this ill fuited marriage, are but too public, and I have great reason to apprehend, that, to this constant source of domestic misery, I owe the loss of my unhappy father. The first cause of disgust, my stepmother gave him was her absolutely refusing to let me be brought into the house, politely adding, that she would not suffer a beggar's brat, to be brought up with her children, who were at least entitled to a fortune, by their mother’s fide; and, that those who had no' ' but their blood so boast of, should be bred humble to lower their pride. This one specimen is, I think, sufficient to give you a perfect idea of my poor father’s unhappiness, and I shall say nothing more, of one, who has the honour to bear his name, and title.
I remained at my grandfather’s, and was his principal favourite. My father continued to see me frequently, and, notwithstanding his family was increased, by the birth Of a fon, and two daughters, his fondness for me appeared undiminished
-- -- but neither his lady, nor the earl, ever
took
I
46  .
took the least notice of me -- my father’s lister,
lady Woodville, was extremely kind to me, and even prefied my grandfather to let me live with her, but he refused to part with the only joy he had on earth, and she died before him.
When I was about fourteen, I was deprived of my affectionate, and tender parent, the good old colonel. — Before he died, he recommended me, in the most affecting terms, to my father, who promised everything in my favour, that he could desire; but seemed offended that the colonel should think it necessary to plead for his dearest, best beloved child, the child of his affection, the child of his ever adored, and lamented Harriet. Fully satisfied with these assurances, the good old man resigned his soul in peace, leaving me all his personal fortune, which amounted to about Six thousand pounds; his paternal estate being entailed on a male heir.
Lady Anne Weftrop, who was a distant relation of my mother’s, invited me to live with her, and in the society of this agreeable woman, I began to recover my natural cheerfulness, which had been totally absorbed by the grief I felt for my grandfather’s ill health and death. — During a year, that we passed entirely at her Seat in the country, I knew not one moment’s uneasiness — my mind was like a peacesul ocean, whose every motion was uniformly gentle, without one ruffling breeze to disturb, or deform it; yet Sufficiently actuated to prevent languor or disgust, the stagnation of the soul.
How often have I looked back, with regret, upon this pleasing calm! which was, alas! too soon Succeeded by impetuous storms, where all my peace was Shipwrecked. About the end of this happy sera, captain Barnard came to pay a visit to his Sister, lady Anne; he is youngest fon
to
TM E D e LIC AT E D I S TR E S S. 47
to the Earl of W -- -- -- -- He was designed for
the navy, and his father was, at that time folli. citing a Ship, which he soon obtained for him.
I shall not take up your ladyship’s time, by giving you an account of our childish courtship, but tell you, at once, that,
A mutual flame was quickly caught.
Was quickly too reveal’d.
Tor neither bosom lodg’d a wish.
Which virtue keeps conceal’d.
What happy hours of heartfelt bliss •
love on both bellow!
But bliss too mighty long to lafl:.
Where fortune proves a foe.
In the midst: of these truly Arcadian pleasures, she earl my grandfather, died; which I can by no means say disturbed my happiness; but, alas! it was to be interrupted by a Severer shock; for my father stirvived him but eleven days; the six thousand pounds, which colonel Stanley, had bequeathed to me, were in my father’s hands, his estate was all fettled upon the issue of his Second marriage, and his debts amounted to rather more than his personal fortune; so that there remained not a shilling for me, even of my grandfather’s legacy, without going to law with the countess, my stepmother, who had poitested herself of everything my father left.
I GRIEVED only for his loss, that of my fortune appearing, then, of no consequence; my lover seemed to redouble his tenderness for me, but thought, circumstanced as I then was, it would be prudent to conceal our passion, as it was highly probable his friends might oppose our union. I acquiesced in his opinion, and rested ail my
hopes
48
hopes of happiness on him, — unworthy guardian of that sacred trull I
When the time for his leaving west hill arrived, I then discovered that I had never known sorrow before; it was impossible to conceal my anguish, and lady Ann Weftrop, who had taken great pains to comfort me for the death of my father, and imagined, not without reason, that my grief had fubsided into a calm, and gentle melancholy, seemed astonished at the violence of my affliction; but I might have answered her with the words of Helena, “I think not on my “father, and these great tears do grace his me“ “more than those I shed for him.”
However, I thought it very lucky, that my late misfortune appeared a sufficient cause for my present melancholy, which I indulged to such an excess, as soon affected my constitution, andl was ordered by my physician to Bristol. Lady Anne, ever kind, and affectionate towards me, accompanied me thither, and Mr. Weftrop went to London, to consult lawyers about the recovery of mv fortune.
w _
The frequency and tenderness of captain barnard’s letters contributed much more to the restoration of rny health, than all the waters of those Salubrious Springs; and lady Anne expressed Such sincere joy at my recovery, that I, romantic as I was, thought myself bound in honour, to acquaint her with the real cause of it. I thought concealing anything from Such a friend, was adjing a lie, and in the fulness of my gratitude I poured forth all the'fecrets of my heart.
She heard me with that sort of coldness with which one listens to a twice told tale, yet, at the same time, assured me, she had never suspected any attachment between her brother and me; said she wished, for both our sakes, we could
conquer
  49
conquer our passion, for Ihe was certain, it could only be productive of misery to both.
iwas equally piqued at her^manner and expression, and replied with Some warmth, that, as I considered myself under very great obligations to her I would not entail misery on any part of her family, let my own fate be what it would. She applauded my resolution, with the famefangfroid, with which (he had heard my story, and I retired from her apartment, to my own, more humbled and mortified than I had ever been in my life.
I PASSED a most restless, miserable night, sometimes resolving on the highest generosity to break with captain Barnard, - — the next moment repeating vows of everlasting love— — at all events I determined to quit lady Anne, yet whither should I go? where fly to? a wretched orphan, without friends or fortune!
The agitation of my mind at length subsided, and towards morning I fell into a profound Humber. As I slept much longer than usual, I found lady anne’s woman by my bed fide, when I awoke, who said ftie came from her lady, to inquire my health, and to request that I would go to her immediately.
I obeyed the summons instantly, and while I was hurrying on my deaths, flattered myself that she had relented of her unkindness, and, wished again to restore me to that sisterly affection, which she seemed so long to have felt for me, and yet to have lost in one moment; poffelted with this imagination, I ran, or rather flew, to her apartment; but on opening the door,
was surprised to see Lord N -- -, who appeared
very earnaft in conversation with her ladyship.
This gentleman had been very particular to
me, ever Since our residence at Bristol; he was
C yoimg.i
50
young, polite, and master of a large independent fortune; but these advantages had made me rather decline, than encourage his acquaintance, left the busy tongues of men, or rather women, might havepronounced him a lover — an epithet, which is of ail others most hateful to a delicate, pre engaged heart.
On my entrance, the conversation became general. Lady Anne affected to treat me with her usual tenderness, but I too plainly Saw, that he only affected it. After Some little time fly withdrew abruptly, and left me alone with lord .N— — •. thousand disagreeable things rushed into my mind at once, but above all, I feared a declaration of love from his lordship, which, though I was determined to refuse, must have distressed me extremely, as I could not to the .world, afllgnany justifiable cause for my refusal.
I ROSE from my seat with trepidation, and .rang the bell for breakfast:. I hoped this would be a hint for his lordship to retire — on the contrary, he said, it was very fortunate 'for him that 1 had called for tea, as he had not touched ainy thing but a glass of water, that day, aiid ‘should have absolutely forgot that eating was n ceffary, if I had not reminded him of it; but since I had, he hoped I would allow him the ho bour of breakfasting with me.
I COOLLY bowed assent, and the moment the tea table was removed, said I must retire, to put on my Tiding dress, as I had promised to meet a lady on the Downs, and feared I should keep her waiting. Lord N -- -- -- saw my confusion,
pitied and believed it, by saying he would not trespass farther on my leisure, but hoped 1 would permit him the honour of paying me a visit in the afternoon; he did not wait for my
feply, and 1 thought myself infinitely obliged to
him,
  t
him,, for even postponing ’the embarajssment, in which I knew I Should be too soon involved.
As soon as lady Anne and 1 were alone, after dinner she congratulated me, with a serious air, on the important conquest I had made, enumerated the great advantages of such a match, and said she was rejoiced to find, by the ease and propriety of my behaviour, that the stlly pre poitestion I had talked of the night before, had not rendered me so romantically absurd, as to reject happiness, and lord N -- --, or to perlist in
embracing misery, and captain Barnard.
Though I had in some measure prepared myself to hear her speak on this subject, yet I could not avoid feeling the utmost surprise, at her want of delicacy, in mentioning the man whom I professed to love, at the same instant that she approved my accepting of another.
As soon as I recovered myself, I told her that I was neither entitled to her congratulation, or
approbation, as lord N -- -- had never said anything
upon such a subject to me, and that I hoped he never would, as I should be very sorry' to give him the mortification of a denial; but at the same time, that I fled from whatjhe called happiness, I hoped I should find what I thought foin the conscioufnefs of having acted right; for though I never could divest myself of the tenderest attachment to captain Barnard, yet I could sacrifice my hopes of any future connexion with him to his advantage, and her desire.
Lady Anne took me at my word, praised my generosity, and entreated I would take time to
confider, before I refused lord NI assured
her, that delay was unnecessary;; as I had a very high esteem for his lordship, and was sincerely grateful, for the honour he intended me,
I could not think of trifling with his peace, or
C 2 meanly
52
meanly accepting a heart, because fet in gold, when it was absolutely impossible for me to make the only return which such a valuable present deserved. She called me dear, romantic, generous girl; said she had no doubt but time and reason would conquer my childish passion, and that she should rejoice to see me happy with some worthy man; but shll entreated me, not to act precipitately, with regard to lord N — •, as she feared I might never have such another offer.
This kind of conversation lasted till lord N — — — came to visit us, and I now wished for his making that declaration I so much dreaded in the morning. I was determined, on the conduct I should pursue towards him, and secretly triumphed in the sacrifice I should make to my truly disinterested love for captain Barnard. However, her ladyship took care that we should not so immediately come to an explanation, for she never left us the whole evening. Lord N — • appeared to be chagrined; and I was also extremely mortified that the affair was not brought to a condufion.
The next day I received a letter from Mr. Westrop, informing me that my stepmother had consented to give me four thousand pounds, rather than stand a lawsuit, for the six which my grand father left me. In consideration of this sum, I was to relinquish all farther claim to my father’s fortune, and to receive it as a present from her bounty. These terms I thought extremely hard; but to attempt carrying on an expensive fuit, without money appeared impracticable. It is true, Mr. Westrop in the most friendly manner, offered to advance any sum I might have occasion for; but I already felt the weight of my obligation to lady Anne, and determined not to increase the load. I therefore
complied
  53
complied with these severe conditions: but as I was not of age, Mr. Weftrop became Security: for my part of the contract:, and the interest of this splendid sum was allotted for my maintenance.
On this occasion lady Anne behaved with the utmost kindness towards me; begged I would confider her as my Sister, and never think of quitting her house, till I went to one of my own. She made me several valuable presents, which I received with the utmost reluctance; yet could not refuse, as her manner of bestowing them was peculiarly polite and tender. In short, she did everything in her power, to conciliate that true esteem, and affection, which her conduct, with regard to captain Barnard, had for a while restrained.
Lord N -- -- -- -- soon found an opportunity to
difclofehis passion for me; and I as quickly put an end to all his hopes. He thanked me for the generous frankness of my conduct, and earnestly entreated to see me as a friend, though I had denied him as a lover. I readily consented to his request, and have ever found him a most amiable and worthy man.
I HAD not received a letter from captain Barnard for near a month. — He was stationed in the Mediterranean : and though determined, as Soon as he returned to England, to take an everlasting leave of him, I grew impatient at his fdence, ■and longed to return to Westhill, to retrace those paths we had trod together, and woo Sweet echo to repeat his name. I knew lady Anne received foreign letters frequently, Some of which I sup poled were frorn captain Barnard; but as she was filent on the Subject of them, I did not think it proper|to appear inquisitive;; Some weeks elapsed, without Suffering that name to pass my
09k 1 t r
54
lips, which was but too deeply engraved on my heart.
At length, the time for our departure came, and we arrived at Weflhill. — The morning after, I rose very early, in order to indulge the fond idea of revisiting those woods and lawns, where I had spent so many happy hours. I did not imagine any of the family were stirring, and went softly Into lady anne’s dressing room, where all the English poets lay, to take a book with me into the gardens. I started at finding her there. Her surprise at feeing me, equalled mine : but quickly recovering herself, she talked of. the fineness of the morning, which she said had tempted her to leave her bed so soon;; that finding the dew was not off the grass, she had sat down to write letters.
A propos, said she; I have had one in my postession for you these ten days; but as I did not know whether the contents might be perfectly agreeable to you, I chose to defer delivering it, till we were quite free from observers. I flatter myself, madam, said I, that your precaution was unnecessary, if, as I apprehend, the letter comes from captain Barnard. Lady Anne replied, do not be too sanguine, my dear; we feel our disappointments, in proportion to our expectations. True, madam, I returned; but as the height of mine at present, extends only to knowing that your brother is well and happy, do not protract on that account, but be so good to let me have my letter.
She then presented it to me, saying, I believe you had better retire to your own apartment, before you read it. I willingly obeyed: but though all this preparation was sufficient to alarm me, yet at the sight of those dear, well known characters, I forgot all that lady Anne had said,
and
  55
and broke the Seal with the highest transport. But before I had read half the following lines, I in reality suffered the transformation, which Ovid feigned for Niobe : my limbs were petrified; nor was the least sign of life or motion, remaining in me, but my flowing tears.
o Harriet Hanbury. Madam' '
“ingratitude aud unkindness of your ** behaviour towards me, deserve such reproaches as L am incapable of making to a person I once “truly loved. I ought to be thankful for your •^^having cured me of that folly but the manner “of your doing it, takes away the merit of the ** obligation.
“Unworthy Harriet! you might have ceased to love, without betraying, and exposing the wretch who doted on you. Lord
“N -- -- -- ’s superior rank, and fortune were
temptations, I scarce could hope you should ** withstand. But why, ingrate I should you “despise, and ridicule the fondness of that heart, “where, though you have planted daggers, “there still remain the warmest wishes for your ** future happiness
** is now above two months since I have heard from you. This, cruel, this alarming “Silence, filled my fond bosom with the tender est sorrow. I had a thousand fears for my loved Harriet. I feared some fatal accident ** might have befallen her. I feared everything ** that could befall, except her breach of vows! “The fidelity of my own heart prevented that suspicion.
But I have done for ever on this subject;; ** will I longer interrupt your felicity, than
C 4 “
^6
“to entreat, as my last request, if you havt thought my letters worth preserving, that you “will immediately deliver them to my Sister.
If ever I return to England and you desire it, ** I will restore your’s, dear as they once were to my faithful heart, which wants not memento’s of the faithless Harriet.
■ “I Have got another Ship, and shall use all my interest to prevent my return to England. Amidst all the perils, to which my fituatioii daily exposes me, I wished to preserve my ** life for your sake only; but your perfidy has ** now rendered it of as little value to me, as it ever was to you : and to die nobly in the fer“ “of my country, is at present, the most“ “wish of,
“The unfortunate
Wm. Barnard.”
I HAD remained for some hours in the fi tuafion I have already described, when lady Anne sent her woman, to call me to breakfast. On finding my eyes fixed, and my whole frame immoveable, Mrs. Atkins Screamed So loud, that lady Anne and Mr. Westrop ran into my dress ing room. I was immediately put into bedj and every care was taken for my recovery. A slow fever ensued, which I daily hoped would terminate my life and misery; but it pleased Providence that I should be reserved for greater woes.
As Soon as I was capable of reasoning, I found captain Barnard had been imposed upon, and felt ■even more for his Sufl'erings than my own — Bu! who could have deceived him? it must he lady Anne. But as I vas not in a situation to resent such cruelty, I thought it most prudent to acquiesce in Silence, and wait till time, the great ex
poundei
X J. J^IO X i
pounder of mysteries, Should clear my innocence. She frequently observed, that as I was determined to break with him, it would be better to let him remain in his error, than to come to an explanation, that could answer no end, as we were to part for ever. To this I could, by no means, a gree. But, alas! it was not in my power to oppose her pleasure. I neither knew the name of his ship, nor the place of his destination; and I continued, for near twelve months, a prey to the most cruel suspense
- this time lady Anne and Mr. Westrop purposed making the petit tour, and insisted on my accompanying them. — I gladly accepted the offer; for I might truly say, “I had such perpe “tual source of disquiet, in my own breast, that
rest was grown painful to me, and a state of “agitation, only could afford rhe ease, by ref“ “me, as it were, from rnyfelf.’^
Though we spent a month in London, to wait for the conclusion of the peace, I knew not where to make any inquiry after captain Barnard; nor had I a friend to whom I could venture to repeat his name; and I fet out for Paris, much more inclined to enter into the most gloomy solitude than to partake of the pleasures of that gay city.
There I became acquainted with lord Woodville, and there I also met Mrs. Bolton, who was nearly related to me, by my mother. — We had been acciaainted from our infancy, and had a real friendship for each other; but her living in Ireland, where her husband had a very large fortune, had prevented our meeting for three years before. She was in a very declining state of health, and was going to Montpelier on that account, when Mr. Bolton was obliged to fet out for Ireland, on the death of a near relation.
C 5 As
': '., / >
x0 x i XA X w LX X Xa 10 X KJ X 4x XL O O
As lady Anne was constantly engaged in the grande monde, I spent much of my time with Mrs. Bolton, and with real sorrow saw that amiable woman growing worse every day. — Her physicians, at length, had her removed to fontainbleau— — then lady Anne grew weary o) Paris, and resolved to pursue her route. Poor Mrs. Bolton shed a flood of tears, when I talked of quitting Paris, and entreated me not to leavt her, “a helpless stranger in a foreign land Even her own maid had married one of the gen d’armes, and left her, so that he had not a creature about her, that had the least regard or tenderness for her. She said, a few days would pul an end to the arduous talk, she required from m friendship, that of dosing her dying eyes : bul that if Mr. Bolton should return before that happened, her carriage and Servants should convej me to lady Anne, or wherever I desired.
There was no resisting her importunities; and lady Anne, though dissatisfied at my stay, applauded the nobiehefs of my friendship, anc took a very affectionate leave of me. I Saw hcj get into a carriage with sincere regret. I considered myself as torn from one who had been th friend, and protectress of my youth. Her crueltj was forgot; and every act of kindness she hat ever shown me, returned with double force intt my memory; and my heart and eyes overflowed with grateful tenderness.
I WAS waiting in this situation of mind, foi Mrs. bolton’s chariot to carry me to fontain bleau, when captain Barnard entered the room! I will not pretend to describe the emotions of m) heart; in short they were too strong for my reason, and suspended all its powers. — Never fur was such a meeting! The extremes of love, surprise, resentment, joy, all operated on me.
He
J. Ai il, J. a:. J, XXX .iju.
He was all penitence, and love; kneeled at my feet, and bathed my hand with tears; pleaded the violence of his distracted love, in excuse for the cruel letter he had wrote, when he believed me false; and uttered the most solemn vows, that if I would again receive his heart, which never had strayed one moment from me, no power on earth should ever part us more: but if I refused to accept his love, he would instantly give up the command of his ship, and retire to some part of the world, where he should never be heard of.
I WILL frankly confess, that all my tenderness for this unworthy man returned and I even thought I loved him better than I had ever done before. He was then of age, and master of himself;; remained, therefore, nothing to oppose our wishes, for I own them mutual, but the obligations I was under, and the voluntary promise I had made to lady Anne. This objection he treated as romantic; but said, he would gratify my delicacy in this particular; and engaged to obtain her free consent.
He attended me to Fontainblcaii, and visited me there, every day, during two months, that my amiable friend continued to languish, — At the end of that time, stye was released, and left
me in Sincere affliction. Mr. Bolton returned a
0
few days before her death; and, sometime after, made me a present of part of her jewels, to the amount of two thousand pounds. — I would have declined so valuable a gift; but it was my dear Mrs. Boltoffs dying request, that I should have them.
At captain barnard’is earnest entreaty, I returned to Paris, where he still continued to folh cit our marriage, and I to refuse, till he had fulfilled his promise, with regard to lady Anne. —
At
J
XJK/ X XX Xaj x y jli XJ X JT\ X Uu JL X ^ X X jl i JOT '
j
At length, he extorted one from me, that even! her opposing it should not prevent our union; : and, in an oblique manner, confessed, that (he had been the cause of that letter which had given me so much pain, by her misrepresentation of my conduct: at Bristol. He that can please is certain to persuade;; I, at last, acquiesced in his request.
He would not hear of my returning into England till we were married. I had no parent’s consent to a, and he had wrote to the chaplair of h is ship to come and marry us. Seemingl) possessed with the tenderest passion that ever warmed a human heart, he Set out for Aix la Chapel, where we Supposed lady Anne to be; but unluckily, she had left it two days before captaii Barnard arrived, and was then returning to Eng land. Thither the captain followed. I was ex tremely concerned at this disappointment; but i was only on account of the additional troubl and fatigue he was to undergo.
He wrote to me the very post : nay, I wa Sometimes so happy, as to receive two or three letters wrote at different times of the same day
at
filled with the language of love, with fond com plaints of absence, and vows never to leave m i more.
I
I However, blinded as I was by my own pai
lion, I could not help perceiving, that when h ' had been sometime in England the style of h
i letters began to change, though he still contini
d to complain of the cruel necessity that detair I ed him; but not in that charming plaintive stili
wshich used, at once, to soften and delight m
I heart.
i Three months passed away, in this man
ii - which time, I received a cold, but CIV i! letter, from lady Anne, congratulating me C
r ■ tl
i
k
'J k
i ^
t
I
I
t * »
^ i r
the constancy of my lover, and thanking me for the needless compliment I had paid her, as she was perfectly convinced we were too much in love, to follow any persons advice but our own. - — Notwithstanding this, she very Sincerely wished my happiness, whether I should, or should not become her Sister.
As I found captain barnard’s return was still protracted by his father’s ill health, and many other reasons, that did not appear to me Sufficient, I began to be uneasy at my situation— — single woman, without friends, or relations, in such a place as Paris, was, by no means, in an
eligible state. -- -1 had some acquaintance, and
those of distinction, who received me on lady anne’s account, without inquiring into the motives of my stay : but I felt a conscioufnefs, that their civilities were more the effect of politeness, than esteem, which rendered me unhappy; and I wrote to captain Barnard, requesting his permission to return to England, if he did not intend to come to Paris immediately.
My letter lay Sealed, and directed, on my dref sing table, when lord N — — came to make me a visit; and casting his eyes on the letter. Said, I might Spare myself the trouble of Sending it to the postoffice, as he had that moment, met captain Barnard, in a very fine equipage. My heart sunk in me, at this news. — Yet I still flattered
myself, that lord N -- -- -- r might mistake some
other person for him, and was earnest in persua ding his lordship, that he was deceived, when the captain’s servant brought rae the following card.
” If lady Harriet H -- -- -- -- will be at home,
“and alone this evening, captain Barnard will, “if agreeable, do himself the honour of wait y ing on her, at six o’clock.’/
T HE
9
The surprise I had been in before was augmented by this extraordinary message. I, however, Sent word I should be glad to See him; and passed the intermediate hours in endeavouring to prepare myself for that fatal change, which was already but too visible, but which I was utterly unable to account for.
At the appointed time, he came, and endeavoured to assume a sort of formal tenderness, accompanied with an air of gravity, and mystery. I could not long endure Such a cruel state of suf penfe, and pressed to know what it was that affected him? he told me, he was the most miserable man breathing, that all his Schemes of happiness were blasted, but that he never could have resolution to tell me, how they were so — called me, dear, fissipering angel! kissed my hand, and wept. —
I cannot describe the emotion of my heart; I longed, yet feared, to know what all this meant; and, at length, told him, that if he did not wish to make me extremely unhappy he would explain this enigma. He said, he had great reason to fear, that Satisfying my inquiries, would render me yet more wretched, even than doubt could do; and if the secret could be kept for ever from rae, he would die rather than reveal it. But I must know it, and he who was a sharer in the misfortune, would tell it with most tenderness.
He then conjured me, to Summon all the love 1 ever had for him, that it might incline me to pity, and pardon a wretch, that had undone himself! in short he told me, that his friends had prevailed on him, to marry Miss S — —, whom he unfortunately met at Aix la Chapel, and accompanied to London — that at the moment he received her hand; the icy ons of death would
have
i nn. UH.U1CA1 n uis i Knss. 03
have been more welcome; that his heart did, and ever should adore me, and only me.
He had knelt by my fide, while he told this fatal story, and when he finished it wept extremely. To his amazement not one sigh or tear escaped me. I rose immediately, and wished him joy, then rung the bell to order my chariot; he remained immoveable, I begged he would rise, before the Servant entered — he obeyed; but implored me not to leave him; Said it was impossible that I could really be So indifferent as I appeared; that he was prepared to meet my anger, or my Sorrow, but could not bear contempt.
I T o LD him that was at present, my predominant Sentiment, and the sooner he retired from it, and put an end to this interview, the better, and which I would take care should be our last. He vowed he would never leave the Spot, where he again prostrated himself, till I pronounced his pardon. I told him this was adding insult to injury, but Since he would not quit my apartment, I should.
I THREW myself into my carriage, and suffered myself to be carried to the marchioness de St. aumont’s — there I met lord Woodville, and
lord N -- -- -; who both remarked that I looked
extremely ill, and advised me to leave the assembly, and return home. And I Soon found myself So really so, that I was obliged to follow their advice.
I WENT immediately to bed, without Speaking, a Syllable, even to my maid, who observing so Sudden a change in my manners and appearance, Sat up in my dressing-room. The heroism of my conduct, towards captain Barnard had flattered my pride, and kept up my Spirits, while he was present; but I was no Sooner alone, than I felt all the weight of my misfortunes j and the
agitation
X jt l II LJ Hj Lj L ^ jtv X Hd JLJ 1 O X XV IL O O
agitation and diftractiion of my mind threw mein" to convulsions. My maid had immediate help for me, but all the art of the best physicians i Paris, could not restore my senses, for fiftee*^ days — happy interval! delightful recess from ago' nizing sorrow.
At length, their cruel kindness triumphed sofar, as to restore my reason— — good God, in what a shattered plight did it return 1 and to what a poor, defaced, and wretched habitation? rny disorder was generally believed to be a malignant
fever, but doctor L -- -- -, who understood the
maladies of the mind, as well as body, and was acquainted with my attachment to captain Barnard, contributed to the recovery of the latter, by administering consolation to the former, much more, than all the art of medicine could have done. I soon difeharged all my physicians, but him, wholonly knew the source of my complaint; and to his shill and tenderness, am I indebted, for the preservation of this wretched being.
D uring my illness, lord Woodville, and
lord N -- -- -, behaved like brothers to me — they
both visited me daily, and endeavoured, but in vain, and unknowing of the cause, to dissipate that melancholy, which will for ever prey upon my heart. My mind was So much weakened, that I determined to go into a convent, and flattered myself, that in that calm retirement, 1 should find peace and rest. I fancied I mighi there retain the tenets of my own religion, onlj conforming externally to theirs.
I COMMUNICATED my project to doctoi L —, who soon convinced me, that peace dwell!! not in a cloister, but that even those holy retreati
'are filled with vain wishes, and tumultuous passions
3 and that it would be making a mockerj
O!
I
  65
of all religion, to pretend to embrace theirs, unless I could do it sincerely.
While I remained in a very weak and languishing condition, a gentleman called frequently to inquire my health; but as he refused to leave — his name, I guessed it was some person sent by captain Barnard, and was therefore not the lead inquisitive about him. At length he desired to be admitted to see me, saying, he had something of importance to communicate.
I CONSENTED; and after the common civilities were over, he took a pacquet out of his pocket, and presenting it to me, said he hoped that would be an acceptable present. It was directed in an unknown hand; but as I hesitated about receiving it, he said I had nothing to fear from the contents, and he would call for my answer the next day; and instantly left the room.
The pacquet contained a long letter from captain Barnard, filled with vain excuses for hts falsehood, and pafllonate entreaties that I would again suffer him to plead his pardon at my feet — he expressed the most poignant sorrow for my illness, and begged I would at least permit him to repair the injuries he had done me, as far as it was possible, by accepting an unlimited power over that fortune, to which he had sacrificed his love, honour, and happiness;; as a proof of my forgiveness, requested I would receive an enclosed bill for five hundred pounds; but if my pride should still reject his penitence, he desired I would return his letters, by the gentleman that was the bearer of that.
This fresh insult roused all my resentment against him, and I passed a restless night counting the clock, and with impatience waiting for the hour when I should restore his insolent present, with the Scorn it merited.
At
t
66 THE DELICATE distreas.
At length, his ambassador arrived, and eithes was, or seemed to be surprised, when I acquainted him with the purport of the letter he had brought me; and made many apologies for having unwittingly offended — said the affair between captain Barnard and me had been represented in a very different light to him: that he understood there had been a slight quarrel between us, and that the letter he brought, was to be the meant fa reconcilement.
Cruel Barnard, merciless man! was it not enough to make me wretched! why should he endeavour to make me infamous also! I returned the note and put the letter which had encloscd it, into the fire. As to those I had formerly received from captain Barnard,. I told his friend I would readily part with them, when he should have restored mine; but as I had no reason to have the least; reliance on his word, Iwould not give them out of my poiteffion, on any other
terms. He applauded ray resolution and retired.
i LONGED impatiently leave Paris, and fancied 1 should recover my peace, by quitting the scene of my unhappiness. — I was obliged to part with Some of the jewels, which Mrs. Bolton bad left me, to desray the expenses of my illness and journey; and in a state of the lowed weakness both f mind and body, I returned to London.
On my arrival, I found that a maiden aunto! my father’s, who had never taken the least notice of me, during her life, had bequeathed me hei ijl whole fortune, ten thousand pounds; merely be l cause I was her namesake, and unprovided for bj
I i my Sather. This was a very happy addition tc
f my confined circumstances; but I was incapabh
II of joy, and continued to live like a recluse, till
lore
: 1 I
  67
lord woodville’s return to England. — He soon found me out, and did me the honour to present me to lady Straffon,, and his lovely Emily.
In this charming Society, I began to recover my tranquillity, and flattered myself that it was well nigh eftabliihed, till the unlucky accident, which brought captain Barnard to my Sight, convinced me, that there is no cure for ill-fated love; since neither the cruelty I have experienced, nor time itself, have yet been able to conquer it.
I WILL not now, my dear lady Woodville, take up more of your time, by apologising for the weakness of my conduct through this unhappy affair; for
With thee, I Scorn the low ccnfixaint of art, ** And boast the graceful weakness of my heart.”
LETTER XIV
Lady Straffon, to Lady Woodville.
I HAVE a thousand thanks to give my dear Emily, for the pleasing though melancholy entertainment, which lady harriet’s history has afforded me, — When I was very young,? used to be surprised that so many tragedies and novels, were founded on the perfidy of men: but I have, for some years past, been perfectly convinced, that most of the miseries in this life owe their being to that fatal source. And were there but a window in every fair bosom in the cities of London and Westminster, we should discover numberless hidden traces of the barbarous triumphs, of those doughty « Heroes, famous and
renowned
68
** renowned for wronging innocence, and breab “ing vowsand among this detestable corps, I think captain Barnard might lead the van, and Sir Jajnes Miller bring up the rear.
You may see, by this difposition, that! think worse of the captain than the baronet, asi think lady Harriet much more unhappy thai Lucy. However, I Sincerely hope they ma; both surmount their afflictions: for time am reason can do more, in these cafes, than th Sufferers are willing to allow. They are patient that do not wish to be cured; and find a degre of pleasure in indulging their maladyi
I AM of opinion, that when disappointed lov fublides into a calm and gentle melancholy, it Sensations may not only be pleasing to the perfor that feel it, but render them more amiable, thai they would otherwise be, by giving a' peculia
softness, both to their form and manners, think I should be more apt to fall in love wit a person so circumstanced, than with one wh had never felt la belle pajpon. i I have great pleasure in telling you, that LI
; cy daily gains strength, both of mind and body
andl by no means despair of a perfect cun; The most Savourable Symptom is, her nothavir
mentioned Sir James these two days; yet have rot once restrained heron the Subject, as she ht lately Spoke of him with great calmness. I hav not yet shown her lady harriet’s memoir. — Ter dernefs like Sorrow is contagious; and the Simil llj tude of their situations, might call forth tear
ji; which, though fet down to the account (
jij friendship, would certainly flow from her ov
ji sympathy.
jji It is utterly impossible for me to have the pie:
il sure of visiting Woodfort this summer— —
Ij Sir John in a very few days. — As soon as he ai
■i|i rive
  69
rives, we shall go into eitex. — I do not think Lucy sufficiently recovered to quit her nurse, as she calls me. — My little Emily and Edward are quite well, and surprisingly grown Stnce their illness.
I LONG to know what became of captain Barnard, the day he left you; and what connexion he could have with lady Ransford; who, from your account, seems not to be one of those, who were born to weep over the willow.
I SUPPOSE you will soon fet out for York. — t^fs lovely marchioness is to be there. — Is lady Lawson to be of your party? I could wish she were; as I fear my dear Emily may not be sufficiently attentive to her present situation— — me entreat you not to ride, and to dance but little. My true love attends your lord; 'and, with good wishes*to all your party, I am, a^ectionately,
your’s,
F. Straffon.
LETTER XV
Lady Woodville, to Lady Straffon.
I AM not half satisfied with my dear fanny’s no comment on lady harriet’s affecting story— — shaking the cafe general, you seem inclined to lessen the calamity. — But a plague Is a plague, though ten thousand, or only one thousand, die of it; and, by extending its dominion you increase the fatality, without abating our compaf sion for particular sufferers.
Again, and again, I say, what a blessed, happy creature is your Emily! Had my dear lord after gaining, trifled with my heart, his triumph
would
70
would soon have been complete; for I reallj think the first wound must have subdued it. But he, who has penetration enough to see the softness of my nature, has also generosity sufficient to prevent my very wishes; and seems to havt no fear, but want of power to gratify them, This is a theme, on which my grateful hcarl could dwell for ever; but, not to tyre you I shall change the subject..
FIND lord Seymour vastly averse to our going to York. — He has taken so much pains to dissuade me from it, that if I had not promised Fanny Weston, and Sir James Thornton, whose hearts are seton going, I should find great plea sure in sacrificing my own inclination to his lordship. — — Yet he gives no solid reason, for our declining his party. ■! perceive that my lord looks grave, when the subject is mentioned; of course, it is immediately dropped: and 1 find
the boys and girls will be conquerors. -- Even the
grave lady Harriet, and Mr Ransford, seemed to be alarmed while the matter appeared doubtful.
I THINK I have as little curofity, as anycf my sex, yet I confess myself anxious to know lord seymour’s motive. — He is a man of such excellent understanding, and true poiitenefs, that 1 am astonished at his thinking differently, even upon this trifling subject, from my lord \ But avaunt I thou first female vice, curiosity I I will not suffer thee to harbour one moment longer in iny breast, thou inhospitable tenant! disturber. of the peaceful mansion that receives thee I
Lady Lawson will not accompany us to York: she has been confined to her chamber for some days, with a fever on her spirits. A young lady whom she took into her house a distressed orphan five years ago, and treated with
the
s
t
THE D ELICATE DISTRESS. 71
the utmost tenderness, has just left her. This is unlucky, as She is ill, and alone. Sir William Set out for London yesterday, without calling upon us.
The moment I have quitted one dear lister,
I ftiall fly to the other, and spend as much time as I possibly can with her. Should (he continue ill, it will prevent my going to York. I shall be only sorry for the occasion, for I have lost all relish for the party.
I KNOW not what became of captain Barnard, the day he left us; but I hear he is a constant visitor. at ransford hall. — The old knight is laid up in the gout; and her ladyship acts in the double capacity of master and mistress of the family.
1 HOPE Sir John is by this time, returned to you full of love, and joy and admiration, at your amazing prowess with regard to his children; and that you arc all as happy as you deserve, and I
Amen, and adieu.
E. Woodville.
t
A thousand loves to Lucy.
♦
f
LET
72
LETTER XVI
Lady Woodville, to Lady Straffon. My dear Fanny,
AS I have been used, from my infancy, to your tender participation of all my pains, and pleasures, I could not resift my inclination of sending you the enclosed, which afforded me the most charming melange of both, that I have ever met with. I am proud, and pleased, that the writer was a woman; but cannot help lamenting that such noble sentiments, such an elegant turn of mind, and above ail such tender sensibility, should be buried.in a cloiftcr.
No w for the means by which I obtained this treasure— — evening, after the tea, the conversation turned on the subject of letter writing. Lord Seymour advanced, arfd was Seconded by my lord, that ladies in general, wrote
better in the epistolary style than menas!
looked upon Such a declaration, rather as a compliment paid to the present company, than their real Sentiments, I took up the argument : and though they mentioned Several instances of charming female Scribes, all of whom I admire, as much as they, yet would I not allow the merit general : — for those very persons, whom they quoted, are or ought to be, as much distinguished from the rest of their sex, for their
superior talents, as lady COR the duchess
of H — —, for their uncommon beauty.
Lord Seymour politely called me an heretic, against Self conviction; said he had observed my frequent, ule of the pen, and was persuaded that, no person, with half my understanding, was
ever
  73
: ver fond of writing, who was not conscious of writing well. I told his lordship if the conver ation became particular, there mull be an end )f the general argument. He bowed, and went )n with repeating some passages from female let ers, which did honour to his taste, and with which we were all charmed.
He then told us, that he had a letter in his iocket, which he looked upon to be the chef d xuvre of female eloquence; that he had found it is he was one morning taking a Solitary walk in the Tuilleries; that he would permit me to read t, provided I would candidly give him my opinion, whether I thought any man living could lictate such a letter. On my promising to be fin: ere, he took it out of his pock^book, pre rented it to me, wit^i a trembling hand, and left the room.
when^wc met at supper, I was lavish in its praise, and declared, that I doubted whether even Rousseau could have wrote more tenderly. He seemed delighted at my conversation, and immediately complied with my request, to suffer me to take a copy of it, for you, and you only.
I IMPATIENTLY long to know something more of the lady’s history- -- cannot be persuaded
that it was mere accident which put it into lord seymour’s hands. — - But I will not detain you from the perusal of it by my vague
conjectures -- -- 1 shall, however. Satisfy your
curiosity in a more material point, by letting you know lady Lawson Is better. — I am to dine with her, lete a tete, tomorrow.
I SHALL claim great merit for this volunteer. I hope Lucy continues well. I earnestly wilh to know what apology you have made for that
worthless idiot, Sir James Miller to Sir John.
D Pray
174 the de L I C ate DI STRESS.
Pray write very soon, a very long letter to
your’s very sincerely,
E. Woodville.
I
T H E L E T T E R.
, easter a conflict of four months, the mildest moment of which time, was in“ “more painful, than that which shall“ “this feeble frame from its perturbed “spirit, I sit down to bid an everlasting adieu to him, who w *'> far dearer than the first ** long maintained the Scale in equal balance “with the latter. Did I say was F alas! he is, “and ever will be, dearer than my life! which ** I would sacrifice, a thousand times, rather ** than wound his heart, as I now must“
“Henry! what pangs, what an guish will now rend thy bosom, when thou “shall be convinced, thou never hadst a rival in thy charlotte’s love! Even heaven itfeli “yielded its claim to thee; and my fond heart adored the Maker in his most perfect work, “thy charming Self! Such, in thy charlotte’s “eyes, didst thou appear, till thy relentless jealousy pursued, and would have robbed of liss“ “— rival, Henry! but thy charlotte’s bro“ “!
“How will amazement strike thee! My fai heart bleeds for thine. Involved in mystery and misery from my birth, this truth couh not have reached you sooner;; could: possibly reveal the secret, and brand will ** cruelty and guilt, the authors of my wretchei “being.
** Recall the fatal evening to your mind when that accursed jealousy infused its venon ** first into you bofom*’ — what pains did I no
“tall
\
  75
take to counteract the poison!! was the innocent young man astonished at your beha viour! remember the last words I ever uttered
“to you. -- m.y dear eft Henry, let not appear
** diflurh your mind, I can, and will, account
for every aflion of my life to you let your
servant attend at the grate, tomorrow, for a ** letter from me, and you shall be fully fatisfiedp Ah I Henry, how could you doubt her ** truth, who never yet deceived you! by what you now must feel, judge what I felt, when word was brought me, you had killed my ** brother! that he survives, for your sake, and my own, I bow my heart to heaven. Ah f what uncommon misery were mine, were I compelled to hate you! No, Henry, I am ** not ib wretched; I may love you ftisl, with out a crime; most truly love you; and every “prayer that I address to Heaven, may waft petitions for your true felicity!
“tomorrow, I renounce the world; ^ vain ceremony! Alas! I have renounced my
Henry, before. this is my last adieu. — -■
May every saint and angel, bless, protect and guide you, to that heaven, where we may, “once more, hope to meet I — - — Till then, ■** farewell, for ever. ’’
LETTER XVII
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
I AM vastly obliged to my dear Emily, for her two last letters — her volunteer was delightful p that angelic nun has almost broke my heart — It is impossible (he can be happy in a cloister,
D 2 and

and I very much doubt, whether those fine feelings, which fly seems to have, would not have rendered her rather more miserable, had ihe remained in the world. May she soon arrive at that place, where the highest sensibility must be productive of the highest happiness!!
will, perhaps, think me cruel, for wishing her death; but indeed, my dear Sister, there is scarce a man living, who could deserve such a heart as hers; not even lord Seymour, to whom I believe it devoted. If I read aright, I am truly sorry for his misfortune; he has sustained an irreparable loss.
I DARE say your lord is acquainted with the whole story;; as I am persuaded that lord Seymour is incapable of a base, or mean action, he may, perhaps, be prevailed on, to satisfy your curiosity— — if he once declines it, press him no farther. As you value his peace, and your own, never lay him under the painful necessity of refusing anything to the woman he loves; nor let him ever see you have a wish ungratified. Believe me, Emily, more women lose their husbands hearts, by what they call carrying their point, and teasing a good= ^natured man into compliance, than any other way.
The first part of this letter, like the Gazette, has been devoted to foreign affairs; now for domestic— — John returned last week in perfect health and spirits, from Paris. I did not suffer the children to appear, till I acquainted him with my bold undertaking — at first he looked surprised and terrified; but immediately recollecting himself, said, that from his fanny’s countenance, he was certain our Joint treasure must be Safe. At that instant, the little animals flew into his arris : I cannot describe the charming scene,
but
  77
but it was, as you say, all “love, and joy, and “admiration.”
Lucy came next; she had summoned all her' spirits, to meet her brother, but in spite of all her resolution, a wayward tear (tote down her lovely cheek. To our mutual surprise Sir John took not the least notice of her soft confusion, nor alked a single question about Sir James Miller. Lucy was vastly happy at his seeming inattention; but it alarmed me much more, than if he had spoken upon the subject.
A LITTLE time after., he withdrew into his
closet, and wrote a letter -- his servant returned
as we were sitting down to dinner, and told him the gentleman was not at home. During our meal, I felt the utmost anxiety, but durst not speak. Lucy was the exact resemblance of shakefpear’s patience on a monument, “smiling at grief.” Sir John appeared to be perfectly as ease, cheerful, and lively.
I OBSERVED to him, that he talked much, and eat little. He pressed my hand with unaffected tenderness, and said the joy he felt at feeing us all, had quite absorbed any thought of himself, but that nature would soon return to its old bent, and bid me beware of my beef and mutton tomorrow.
I KNEW the loss of appetite to be a common effect of joy, and therefore endeavoured to persuade myself, that all was well. When we arose from table, he said he had some business to transact for a gentleman in Paris, but that he should return to tea, and desired Lucy to have her voice and harpsichord, in tune, to fing him some new songs he then put on his sword, and walked brifkiy out of the house.
Lucy and I remained for some moments petrified; we could neither speak, nor look at each
D 3 other
78
other -- -- at length she arose, and with a slow
pace, and down cafl: looks advanced to where I Sat, then fell upon her knees before me, and bathed my hand with her fafl falling tears. I could not bid her rise, but Sunk down by her, and joined in fervent prayer, for my. husband, and her brother’s safety.
A THOUSAND times the dear unhappy girl implored my pardon, as though she were the guilty cause, of what I did, or might hereafter iuffer. Her anguish seemed unutterable; and alarmed and distressed as I then was, I found it absolutely necessary to conceal my own fears, and speak peace to her distracted tortured mind.
In less than an hour, Sir John relieved ijj
from this shocking state- -- -- the transporting
sound of his voice, we endeavoured to compose
ourselves — -- -- Lucy flew to open the door of the
parlour, where we had remained during his absence;; rushed into his arras, and fainted there. The strong transition overpowered her every faculty, and it was a considerable time before Ihe showed any signs of life. I do not blush to tell you that Sir John wept over his beloved: sister.
As Soon as she had power of articulation, she gazed intently on her brother, and exclaimed, Where is the unhappy man? and do 1 see my dearest brother Safe, and unstained with blood }
. My dear Lucy, Sir John replied, calm your spirits- -- -- need have no apprehensions, either
for Sir James Miller or for me— — is fallen bel cw my resentment; and you might have been. assured from the first, that any man who dared to treat a woman ill, must be a coward in his heart.
But did you meet? cried Lucy. No, said Sir John, and I will answer for it, we never shall,
il
/
  79
if he can avoid it and 1 promise you, L shall not Seek the wretch.
But pray, Sir John, Said I, how came you acquainted with his ungenerous behaviour? As vice and folly are generally connected, replied Sir John, he was weak enough to inform against himself by a letterwhich he wrote to me at Paris, sometime after his marriage; and concluded it with presenting lady miller’s compliments, and hoping that notwithstanding what had passed, ^ we might still be friends, and live upon good terrhs.
In my answer, I told him that though fighting: had formerly been my profession,,! was neither a bully nor a bravo, and if he could acquit himfels with honour, of a breach of faith to a woman of unquestioned merit, I was ready to accord him the friendship he desired;; as Tlooked, upon that to be impossible, I hoped he would at least be ready to afford me the only satisfaction that remained in his power to offer or mine to receive. Thatl should leave Paris in a fev/ days,, and call upon him, as Soon as I arrivedin London.
I SAW his servant near this house, when I a lighted, and I have reason to think he was placed there, to watch my coming; as Sir James and his lady fet out in a few minutes after for Paris. And I think there now remains nothing, but to wish my dear Lucy joy of her escape, from such a contemptible animal.
I AM, indeed, my dear brother, Said Lucy,
truly joysul -- -- what a wretch should I have
been, if any misfortune had befallen you, on my account! how could I ever have looked upon my more than Srstcr, or her little angel babes? Sir John and I endeavoured to change the fub — j.ect, but Lucy frequently recurred to it.
Ah, Emily! her wounds are not vet; healed.
D 4. We
So
We spent the evening in a kind of pleastng melancholy — though our hearts were at peace, oui spirits were too much agitated to be cheerful. 1 proposed our Setting out for Straffon Hill, next day, but Sir John Seemed inclined to stay fora few days longer. As I have now no apprehensions from Sir James Miller, I can have no objection, though I confess I long for pure air, and peace; two charming things, which are never to be found in a great city.
I CONGRATULATE you on lady lawson’s recovery. How does poor lady Harriet? Have you civilised Sir James Thornton? I mean, hat he yet fallen in love? What is Fanny Weston doing.? I shall think her much to blame, if (he
does not make a conquest the country is the
place to inspire Sentiment — in London, we think of nothing but outward show — happiness is in tirely out of the question. May it long continue to restde at Woodfort, Sincerely wishes
Your
F. Straffon.
P. S. What an amazing long letter! but 1 am never tired of conversing with you — Sii John, and my Lucy, and rhy babes, all lend you their loves.
LETTER XVIII Woodville to Straffon.
My dear Fanny,
YOU very aptly compare your last letter to : news paper, which records facts indiscriminately — -- - — how could you possibly think ol
th
  8i
he charming nun, however engaging or affecting her Situation, and thence proceed to a Sober lecture on matrimony, before you mentioned events so interesting, as those which related to Sir John, Lucy, and yourself? You are certainly a perfect stoic, and I begin to fear you will soon be above “life’s weakness, and its comforts too.” You see how gladly I lay hold of the first opportunity, I ever had, to criticise on you. I have no doubt but you will explain away all my objections, by next post; but in the mean time, I shall fully enjoy that felf ghen consequence, and superiority, which we all assume, when we take the liberty of condemning another perfon’s conduct.
But to be serious, both my lord and! are charmed with Sir John — his tenderness for hjs amiable stster sets his bravery in the strongest light — and you really did not blush to record it t my dear Fanny must have a great deal of effrontery, notwithstanding her modest countenance, and her meek air. I am in such high spirits, at the happy condufion of this disagreeable affair, that I cannot command my pen to write one rational line.
Yes, it shall tell you, that all this family congratulate our dear Lucy, and you, but more particularly her, on her lucky escape from that contemptible wretch Sir James Miller; and though we all hope, and believe ourselves to be very good Christians, there is no tone of us would lament his untimely end’, if he should be detected in picking pockets in Paris, and make his exit at the Greve.
And so my dear 'wife stster very prudently warned me against teasing my lord — it was a proper caution, and I shall use it — am not I very obedient? but she left me at full liberty, to tord
5 ment
•r
s2 T HH obulca i n DISTKESS.
ment any one elfe — I shall use this latitude alfo to begin : I must inform you that I am in full possession of the history of our lovely nun, and unrestrained from communicating it to you; yet shall I not gratify your curiosity, which I am certain is as great as mine, until you are brought to confess it; and provoked to say, Psha, Emily, how can you be so teasing
I MU ST now hasten to your queries, as we are going to dine at lord withers’s, four miles off, I have prevailed on lady Lawson to be of the party; Sir William is not returned from London yet. I do believe Sir James Thornton is in love, though we cannot guess with whom. He is lately become thoughtful, and reserved;; rally him on his gravity, and tell him he is “proud, ** melancholy, and gentlemanlike” ” he has lost his cheerfulness, his good-humour is invincible, and he strives to laugh, whenever he thinks we wish he should.
I MUCH fear that Cupid has played at crossbow, amongst our young folks, and dealt out lefthanded arrows. 1 fear poor Fanny Weston is a stricken deer, and am apprehensive, that the hand which gave will never heal the wound. She sits whole evenings alone, in her chamber, listening to an jeolian harp, and sometimes looks as if she had been in tears. She says she will go to London, from York; but I fancy she may as well return to Woodfort, as all our male inmates will have left us.
Lord Seympur talks of going to the hot wells, at Bristol, in a few days; and Sir James Thornton goes from York, to his own seat in the West, Lady Harriet continues pretty much the same, except when captain Barnard is mentioned; which happens too frequently, as he still visits at lady ransford’^s.
Adieu
  83
Adieu, dear Fanny, the coach is ready, anti Sir James Thornton waiting in the antechamber of the dressin? room, to hand me to it. I can
w ^ u
not help laughing at the idea of her grave face. A thousand loves attend Sir John, Lucy, and the babes.
Once more, adieu.
E. WOODVILLE.
LETTER XIX
Lady Straffon, to Woodville. '
Straffon hill.
D is a remark, much to the honour of human', nature, that happiness creates benevolence, lam, therefore pleased with illullratingstt, by telling you, that the calm and rational delight I receive, from my present happy situation, has rendered my mind so placid, and serene, as to prevent my resenting your ladyship’s farcaflical comment on my last letter. Au contraire, lam pleased at your becoming a critic; as I think yoii' want a little of thatconfequence, which is sometimes necessary, to give us weight with others.
But now to prove to you that I am not stoic enough to be indifferent about your good opinion, I must inform you, that the first part of my last letter was wrote a few minutes before Sir john’s arrival, the remainder the day after. And as I know my dear emily’s weak spirits are too apt to be alarmed, I chose to proceed in continuation, in hope, that by seeming to treat the matter lightly, I might prevent her apprehensions: and this remarkable instance of my delicacy, has her
pretty
24 1 WJL A 1 j1 uls 1 KESS.
pretty little ladyship construed into a total want of feeling. But you love fairs la guerre; and now, look to yourself.
I NEVER pretended to be devoid of curiosity; it is a passion inherent to our natures, and, properly conducted, may be productive of every goocl. — It is tste source of knowledge; and in ray mind, the strongest mark of distinction between the rational and brute creation. — It is our birthright, descended to us from our first mother. — You will, perhaps, say, it is an inheritance we might have dispensed with, as it has certainly cost us too dear; yet as I have already said, if well cultivated, it is a fruitsul Soil; but, in the hands of the weak, or idle, it can bring forth nothing but weeds, or thorns.
Against this kind of produce, I warned my Emily, and still warn her, lest they, at any time, should wound her tender heart. I frankly confess myself interested in the fate of your lovely nun; but instead of saying, as you would have me, Plha, Emily, how can you befo teasing!, I shall say Pray, Emily, do not be teasing, but write me a full and true account of every circumstance you know, relating to the charming vestal; and of everything elfe, that you think can afford any entertainment, to
Your affectionate sister,
F. Straffon.
t
L E T
0
  85
LETTER XX
Lady woodville to Straffon.
WHAT a triumph for such a little insignificant
animal as me, to be able to ruffle the calm dignity of a female philosopher! I shall begin to think myself of some consequence; rather of more weight, than the jly upon the chariot wheel. For, indeed my dear Fanny, notwith llanding your efforts to disguise it, you were a little chagrined at the small attempt towards pertness, which I ventured to make, in my last letter; and, in truth, you wise ones, when once thrown off your guard, make as foolish a figure as any of us Simpletons.
I HAVE heard it said, that a person who never learned to fence, shall be able to disconcert the greatest master of that noble Science nay more, may possibly kill him by a random pafs, while he stands in the best posture of defence, and is aiming at his antagonist, in all the profundity of quarte or tierce. Just such a scrambling combatant have you to deal with, who, without the least (kill in the art of logic, presumes to enter the lists with your wife ladyship.
And so, Fanny, curiosity is now become a virtue, productive of every good, the Source “of knowledge, the distinguishing mark of rati onality, an inheritance descended to us, ” c. And yet poor Emily is not to be allowed the use of this treasure, but to be deprived of her birthright, and treated as an absolute alien to our grandmother Eve. Is not this a little hard?
But now what Says my philosophy, to this Severe treatment? I think I See you laugh, at that expression. But pray, madam, is not the great
use,
86
use and end of that exalted study, to render us happy, by perfectly acquiescing in our own lot, and wisely conteinning all those advantages that are denied us? Grant me but this, and I will immediately prove myself a philosopher, by showing you how differently we think, in regard to this Same treasure, called curiosity, which I am not permitted to have any share of.
And first, I absolutely deny, that it ever was,, or can be, productive of good. Au contraire, I have Scripture on my fide, to prove that it was the original cause of every physical, and moral ill, that has happened in this world, for I know not how many thousand years. You say, “it “is inherent to our natures.” Fie, Fanny! Could the Author of good then have punished dame Eve, and all her descendants, merely for following the bent of that nature, he had himself endued her with? — Impossible!
Isay, it was the devil, who first introduced it into paradise, and infectod poor Eve; for it' certainly is contagious, and never to be eradicated. From her then, it has descended to all her offspring, not as an inheritance though, but rather as an uncancellable mortgage upon their natural patrimony.
You Say, “it is the Source of knowledge.’’ There again, my dear, you are unluckily mistaken. — Pride is, undoubtedly, the first motive; for not to be wise, but to be thought wiser, than our neighbours, is the great reward. “A distinguishing mark of rationality. You are really no philosopher, lady Straffon. — Have you never seen a dog, or cat, raise up their ears, and / listen with all the avidity with which an old maid hearkens to a Scandalous report of some blooming beauty of eighteen? Indeed,, my dear, you must have observed this frequently ^ and I am
firmly
X Jrl ID JL LII jli i w Tl. 1 XL la loi. isis o o • ^ /
firmly persuaded, that those animals I have mentioned, are just as instinctively curious, as any duchess in Christendom.
I THINK I have now fairly demolistied all your arguments in favour of this precious commodity; but as you boufi the pofteftion of it, which I believe no woman ever did but yourself, I will Show myself the paragon of good nature, and gratify the weakness I condemn, by telling you the history of our amiable nun.
How unlucky now, for your poor dear curiosity!! Ransford has this moment alighted.
-- -- 1 must fly to receive her, and bid you
Adieu.
E. Woodville.
W w w w trw w w w w •or Tty Tip w ^
LETTER XXL
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
And so, my pretty little Bizarre, you are really delighted, at having ruffled a female philosopher; and from thence are determined to derive self con Sequence : Helas, ma pauvre enfant! How grieved am I to mortify, by undeceiving you? for I cannot help informing you (though I know it to be cruel) that I have never been so much pleased, with any of your letters, as your two last.
Brought up, from your early insancy, with a high deference for my opinions, which for some years past I have wished you to shake off, left it should prevent the free use of your own understanding, and occasion your receiving notions upon trust, without giving yourself the trouble of examining them, I am delighted to
find
88
find that my dear Emily will, though in pure badinage, exert her reason and argue, if not logically, at lead ingeniously.
Go on, my lively opponent, and push the mock war between us as far as it will go; though indeed you have left me little to say, on the subject of curiosity, except that it was certainly the original source of knowledge, however unrneri torious, as it first induced eve’s trespass, in tasting the forbidden fruit : but I think, we have fairly exhausted this thesis, and now fox'quelque chose de nouveau.
Si r John has received a letter from Sir James Miller, wherein “he intreats that Sir John will not banish him his native land, by keeping up ** any resentment against him. He implores “lucy’s pardon; and is mean enough to give hints, that his crime has been his punishment.” Poor abject wretch I Sir John has assured him that he never can feel resentment for a person he despises;; that he may return to England in perfect safety.
This last contemptible manoeuvre of Sir James, has I think completed lucy’s cure. Her faded charms begin to recover their former lustre; and I had the pleasure of over hearing her singing a very lively air, as she walked just now under my window. Are not these good symptoms, my fair philosopher?
No friendly visitant has broke in upon me, to interrupt the tediousness of this epistle; but the clock has just reminded me of an appointment I made with my Edward and Emily, to take them to our park. Exact punctuality should ever be preserved, in promises made to those who are not capable of judging of the reasons,
which
  89
which might be given for a breach of it — I therefore must fly to them, and bid my dear Emily
Adieu.
F. Straffon.
LETTER XXII
\
Lady wooj>ville to Lady Straffon.
«•
My dear Fanny,
I A M heartily glad that the mock war, as you call it, between us, is at an end, as I should at present, be totally unable to support my share in the combat, and, of course, must fall before the conqueror. I have been unusually dispirited, and languid, for these two days. — I feel, as if I had cause to be melancholy, and yet endeavour to persuade myself that I have none. This is a state not to be described: and to you, who, I dare Say, have never experienced it, may appear ridiculous; and yet, believe me, it is a painful
situation- -- I flatter myself, I have rather
caught, than bred this malady.
Lord Seymour left us this morning; and for Some days before he fet out, he Seemed to have acquired an additional degree of melancholy foft ness. Love he can never feel more. — Besides, piy lord seems infected with the same disorder; looks grave, and sighs. Tell me then, Fanny, is it possible that male friendship is So much more delicate and tender, than ours, that their mutual fadness could arise from a Separation, for a few weeks, or perhaps, months. If this should be the real cause, I shall blush for my own want of sensibility.
I SHOULD
y
50
I SHOULD think lord Seymour in such a statst of mind, that no slight or trivial misfortune! ' could pofltibly affect: him; for they who have once felt real anguish,, may bid defiance to future ills. The arrows of adversity nfay glance against, but cannot wound a heart already broken. From sympathy alone, such minds can fuifer. — But Gh! far, far, be the thought, from emily’s fond bosom,, lord woodville’s sufferings should cause lord seymour’s sorrow!! is impossible! I am sorry I have expressed such i thought, even to you, my sister. I would bio k from the paper, if I could erase it from m; mind.
We had,, last night, a concert, in a tempi dedicated to Apollo, in the garden. — My lord whose voice is harmony itself, was singing one C shenstone’s elegies. I accompanied him on th harpsichord, and lord Seymour on the violoncelh -- -- -- At these words,
“She was fair, and I could not but love,
** She is faithless, and I am undone, ”
I saw lord Seymour fix his eyes on lord Woo(, i ville’s face, which, in a moment, became fuffuft
with crimson;; voice faltered so much, th
i I ^
he could scarce finish the Song.
1 The moment it was ended, he quitted tl
I te'; ple. I Self myself alarmed; I feared he w
taken ill, and went immediately towards tl I house. As I crossed the parterre, I Saw hi
walking bristdy, in a path that leads to the wod this quieted my apprehensions for his health, b left my mind in a state incapable of thinking. i retired to ray chamber, and continued to mu : till Summoned to Supper..
The)
I I •,
• I
. t;
A' i
  91
There was no notice taken of what had passed— — parted earlier than usual, all but lord Seymour, and my lord, who continued together, till near four o’clock. 1 could not sleep, and wished to have risen, and either walked, or read; but was unwilling to discover my reftlelt nefs to him who caused it. When we met, at breakfast, Mr. Ransford, who was just arrived from London, asked my lord in a low voice, if I had been ill, as he observed that I looked much, paler than ushal.
What a flutter am I in! Just as I had wrote the last word, my dear lord opened the door, and said he came to request the pleasure of my ’ company, to see a new improvement hers making; and, with the most engaging affability, added, that he feared he had disturbed my rest, by sitting up folate, but thought an airing would do us both good.
His behaviour has made all the forgoing part f my letter appear a visson to me. Do not reply to it, my Fanny, till you hear from me again; and I hope, by next post, to have forgot I ever wrote it.
Adieu, adieu, that I may fly indeed, to the most amiable of men.
E. Woodville.
P. S. You shall have the tittle history of the nun, with my next. -- -1 rejoice at Lucy's recovery. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Happy, happy, may you. all be!
I
\
• *
L E .D
gz
LETTER XXIII
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
My dearest Fanny,
HE cloud that hung over my mind, is to i tally dispersed, and my happiness reftorei with my reason. What a visionary must yo think me! but do not chide me, my love sister, lest, by endeavouring at a justification, Should fancy 1 had found reasons to support m folly.
I NEVER spent so delightful a day, as the la on which I wrote to you. During our airitij which was about six miles, ray lord appeared, possible, more amiable to me than ever. They was a peculiar air of tenderness difsufed throug his voice and manner; perhaps the parting froi, his friend, had softened his already gentle nalur Perhaps — but why pry into his bosom, in fear of a cause, which might render the effect It pleasing?
In less than an hour, we arrived at the neate i and most elegant cottage, I ever beheld It w
I Seated on the declivity of a hill, and defendi
from the North winds by a small wood, so bear
i tifully variegated, that even in this leafy feafo
1 summer, autumn, and winter, seemed to vie
II the luxuriancy of the different (hades, whii
i their several periods produce.
I Before the house a pendant lawn, cover
j, with sheep and lambs, reached to the river, whi(
!'i winded in the most beautiful maxes round t:
hill. Over the broadest part of if, was a Goth
II bridge of one arch, with a watch tower in ti
centre; and on the other fide of the house, stoi a small nursery and shrubbery — I was never mo
I agreeab
'■, 1 > r 1
.'^1
  93
agreeably surprised, than with this lovely scene.
I really think if I was to meet with any Severe affliction, that I should like to retire to this delightful solitude, and pafs my days in it.
I frequently saw my lord’s eyes fparkic with pleasure, at that which I expressed. As I neither saw or heard a human creature but ourselves, I begged to know who were the happy owners of this lovely spot?? I wished to see and congratulate them, on their taste and felicity. — Pe said he would immediately comply with my request, and by so doing, increase the happiness of its postestbrs.
He then led me to the house, which was as Amply elegant within, as without — I think I never saw perfect neatness before — and presented me to his nurse an extreme good looking woman, about fifty — she knew not in what manner to receive me — humility and joy seemed to struggle in her countenance — I stepped forward, and embraced her — my lord seemed delighted at what he was pleased to call my condescension.
Xh e good woman has been a widow for twelve years; her husband was first gardener to my lord’s father and her fon inlaw is now in the same station with us. Her daughter is a very pretty woman about two and twenty; and ready to lye in of a second child. I never beheld such a cherubim as the first. My lord said archly, he hoped his foster sister and I should be better acquainted, and that she would undertake the same good office for rae, that her mother had done tor his.
The poor girl blushed, and curtfyed; I felt my cheeks glow; and walked to the window — I confess I was charmed with his attention to such a point, which the foolish lords of the creation generally think below them. He then inquired
for
94
for the nursest mother, and the finest old womai I ever saw, came into the room — I Saluted he also— — hair was perfectly stiver, and her fkii like down — she blested and embraced my lord while tears of joy and gratitude ran down k fair unfurrowed cheek.
My lord was affected, and saw me so; am in order to change the subject, told the goo( woman of the house, he was come to dine wit! her. — She looked amazed, and so Should I, hadl then thought him serious— — I found he wai so, when he told her (he could certainly give ui good bread, butter, rastiers and eggs, and a fah lad; and that he would take care of the rest.
SMILED assent;; said, we should sent home, to prevent the company waiting. He faic there was no necessity for it, as he was quits satisfied that our friends at Woodfort would lit down to dinner at the same instant that we didj without hearing from us. I then supposed he had left orders that they should not wait, and was pleased with the idea of our simple rustic. meal. But I was to be still more surprised; for in about ten minutes the coach arrived with lady Harriet, Fanny Weston, Sir James Thornton, and Mr. Ransford. A sumpter car followed with wine and cold provisions.
The beauty of the scene, the fineness of the day, the unpremeditatednefs of the Scheme, all conspired to render us more cheerful, than we should have been perhaps in any other place on earth; and we all returned home delighted with Gur little expedition, and full of gratitude to my I lord, for the pleasure it had afforded us.
1 This is an enormous long letter, but you
taught me to rise early; I can therefore spare time to my absent friends, as well as those about 1 me; and I can never think that time better employed,
%
  95
ployed, than in proving to my dearest: Fanny,
that I am
Her truly affectionate ssister,
E. Woodville.
P. S. I fear I have delayed the history I now send you, too long; perhaps your curiosity may be as much palled as one’s appetite sometimes is by waiting for a second course;; though elegant in itself cannot repair the damage done by the delay. But if you are a true epicure, and like the feast, you will feed heartily, though the tediousness of the cook be ever so teasing to you.
History of Miss Charlotte Beaumont.
AS the chief circumstancfes which relate to this lady, refer more to others than herself, we must look back to the first causes of those effects, which Seem to have marked her fate. Unhappy 4n the very article of her birth, though descended from a noble family, it will be necessary to give Some account of the authors of her beshg.
Her father the present general Beaumont, was the youngest Son of one of the most ancient, '? ■and illustrious houses in France : but as is generally the cafe with the Superfluous branches of great farnilies of that nation, he was poitested of no other patrimony than his high birth, a graceful person, and his sword.
Th e church and the army are the only provl fions which seem to be designed for the cadets of the noblesse. To the latter our young soldier of fortune applied himself, and soon obtained a genteel post there. In this situation the then duchess dowager of H — — saw, and was captivated with our young hero. — Though her age more
than
/
p6
than doubled his, her person was still pleasing, and her fortune so infinitely superior to his moll sanguine hopes, that he did not long hesitate to accept such a splendid establistiment.
They pasted some years together, with that polite indifference, which distinguisties the married couples of high rank, in that gay nation, At length, the duchess began to grow weary, of treading the same dull circle, for so many years, and proposed to the general they Should visit one of her estates in Languedoc, and pafs a summer there. Though he was by no means tired of the grande monde, nor could pofliblyform^any very delightful idea of retirement, with such a companion as her grace, he politely assented to her request.
When they had been sometime in the country, the duchess hinted a desire of sending for a young lady, who was a distant relation of her first hushand’s, and whom she had formerly placed in a convent. This proposal was perfectly agreeable to the general. The most desirable fetes a tetes, sometimes grow languid: but the intervention of a third person in such a situation as theirs, was most devoutly to be wished for.
Her grace fet out the next morning, for the
convent de -- -- --, which was about five leagues
from her seat, and returned in the evening, accompanied by the too lovely Charlotte D’etree. — The general, though well accustomed to the power of beauty, became suddenly captivated— — had he beheld such a face and form before — such simple elegance, such unaffected grace, the beauties of Venus, with dian’s modesty.
While the lovely Charlotte felt at least as much surprise at the sight of him. We have already said his person was remarkably graceful, his air at once engaging and commanding; nor
was
  97
was any outward ornament negleoled, that could put off such a form to the best advantage. — ■ — What an amazing effect must such a figure have, uppn a girl not yet Seventeen! who had been bred in a cloister, and had never seen, or at least conversed, with any man who did not wear a row..
duchess attempted to appologize for charlotte’s astonistiment. By observing that the poor girl had been brought up in an absolute ignorance; but hoped when she had been sometime with her, that her awkward amazement would wear off She might have talked for ever without interruption. The general had neither speech nor hearing; his faculties seemed all absorbed in one; and through his eyes alone, his heart was for the first time taught to feel a real passion.
The little wanton God, too much the general’s friend, soon inspired the innocent and fair D’etree, with the same sentiments. Never did the tyrant reign more absolute, than in the hearts of these his willing staves. Whole months passing away in all the delights of mutual fondness, Seemed to the lovers but a day; and when at the end of autumn, the duchess talked of returning to Paris, it appeared to them liked being doomed to banistiment.
Charlotte was to accompany the duchess thither; but the general knew their interviews must be less Srequent, and more liable to interruption, than in the charming Solitude of bee veue. After every excuse was obviated, and every possible contrivance of delay exhausted, they were forced to Submit; and the once gay and lively Charles Beaumont, Set out for the metropolis, with infinitely more regret than he had quitted it. The duchess was happily not of
E a jealous
98
a jealous nature; and the, enamoured pair behaved with so 'much circumspection, that she never seemed to have the least suspicion of their mutual attachment to the last hour of her life.
The natural consequences of their guiltj love, now began to make Charlotte taste thf bitter ingredients of that intoxicating cup, o which she had drank so deeply. Infamy stared he: in the face; and, though a criminal passion hac triumphed over chastity; her modesty was not ye extinguished. Sleepiest nights, and days of an guish, now became her portion. She detestei herself and all the world; all, but the guilty au thor of her misery. How often did she wish she never had quitted the cloister; but thert like the desert rose, have bloomed and died unseen, in innocence and peace!
The general, whose fondness if postible wt increased by her situation, said everything i his power to console her, by promising to fijjcur I her fame. Many were the expedients he though
of, but none of them seemed sufficient to satis
the delicate apprehensions of the unhappy Chai lotte. At length she recollected that there was young woman in the convent where she ha h been ‘ bred, whose father and mother were deac
, !i and had lest therin shch low circumstances thatst
!'
could neither afford to live in the world, or pj j her pension where she re’mained; and was then
I sore under the painful necessity of taking tl
[ veil, contrary to her inclinations, or of goir
'I into the world as a dependent,
i This person then she fixed upon as a coni
ij darate, and immediately wrote to her to come
j! Paris, with ample promises of taking care
1 her future fortune. Mademoiselle Laval wasove
’ '!
I joyedat shchashmmons, and instantly obeyed i I In the mean time, the general hired a very northeast i. shrnish^
d .1 i
1 1 I
d
  9,
neat furnished house for her reception, and appointed Servants and everything proper for her arrival. — She was informed that she was to personate a lady whose husband was just dead, and who was come from a distant part of Normandy, to prosecute a lawsuit and lye in at Paris.
The unhappy situation of this young womah’s circumstances, made her readily acquiesce in everything that Charlotte required; and she entered her house, with all the melancholy solemnity of an afflicted relict. In a few days after her arrival, the real mourner, the poor wretched Charlotte, went to vistt her; and after shed ding a flood of tears upon her bosom, acquainted her with her unhappy situation and implored her assistance.
Mademoiselle Laval, naturally good-natured, and softened by the unhappy condition of her friend, promised everything she could desire;; — to soothe and comfort her affliction; and at last, fettled matters in such a way, that the moment Charlotte found herself taken ill, she was to go there; that every necessary preparation should be made, and every tender care taken of her and her offspring.
Everything happened to their utmost wishes: > Ihe was taken ill as she was dressing to go to a hall at the English ambaffador’s. The duchess was luckily prevented from going by a slight cold; and Charlotte, when she got into the carriage, had no one to oppose her being fet down where she pleased— — went directly to her friend’s house, and was there happily delivered of a fon and daughter, who wefo immediately bapti«.ed, by the names of Charles and Charlotte.
In as short a time as was possible after this event, the general and one of hie particular
E 2 friends
100
/
friends carried Charlotte home in. a Sedan chair. She said (he had been taken ill at the ball, and .went directly to bed, where Ihe continued for Some days; and to carry cm the deceit, mademoiselle Laval confined herself to her bed and went through all the forms of a real accouche ment.
Th IC great event so well over, the general
thought himself the happiest man living. -- -- He
doted on his children, and perfectly adored
their lovely mother. -- -- But (he continued to
appear gloomy, and dejected; and at last declared, she should never know peace, while the living witnesses of her shame, continued in the Same kingdom with her. She seldom saw them, and when she did, exprelted abhorrence, rather than tenderness, towards them. She behaved with the utmost coldness to the general, and affected to be infinitely more miserable, than she had ever been before.
The general was almost distracted at her conduct, and at length consented to the removal of the children. It was agreed that lav^l should go over to England, take upon her the name of Beaumont, and educate them as her own, till the duchess died -- -- as soon as that should happen,
he promised to marry Charlotte, and receive them as the orphans of a near relation.
In the mean time he fettled a very handsome income on Laval, and the little innocents fet out for London, with their fictitious mother, who felt, however, infinitely more tenderness for them than their real one seemed to have done.'
No THING remarkable happened, during their infancy. Mademoiselle Laval, by the general’s recommendation, became acquainted
with, many families of distinction, and though
quite
  loi
quite unacquainted with the world, behaved herself so properly, that Ihe was as much esteemed, as known, and her lovely children universally admired.
When they were about seven years old, the duchess died, and in as short a Tpacc as decency would admit of, the general fulfilled his promise, to his still adored, and beautiful Charlotte. On this occasion, mademoiselle Laval, who really doted on her amiable charge, felt the tenderest
concern at the thoughts of parting with it -- --
but she might have spared her sorrow, for madame de Beaumont was, by no means, inclined to rob her of it. On the contrary, when the general proposed the children’s return, she grew outrageous, and declared she would never see him more, if he attempted to bring them into any part of France. She was born to rule his fate, and he submitted, though reluctantly, to her in human, and unnatural commands.
9
In about ten months after their marriage, she brought him a fon, which, in some measure, consoled him for the loss of his other children; and, in another year, presented him with a daughter. In a little time, his fondness was wholly
transferred to the objects of her adoration. --
never was so fond a mother; anst jiiadame de Beaumont was looked upon as the pattern of maternal affection, while she not only abandoned, but detested her former offspring.
The general’s letters to Laval became less frequent; and though he punctually, remitted her income, he seldom rhentiened those, for whose use it was designed. In vain poor Laval endeavoured to awaken the tender feelings of a father in his heart, by boasting the amazing beauty of his Char ()tte, or mentioning the fine parts, and accomplishments of his amiable Charles. j>la
E X ture
102
ture seemed dead in him, as much as in theli
I
cruel mother.
At length, worn by the perpetual remonstrances of the humane and generous Laval, he obtained a commission for his fon, who was then about stxteen, in a regiment that was to enibarli from Dunkirk, for America '; but sent strict orders that he should not go to Paris, and conjured Laval to keep him still ignorant of his birth.
Poor Charlotte almost died away, at the
thoughts of being separated from her brother
It was the Erst cause she had ever known for sorrow,
and nature seemed inclined to make them both amends for the loss of parental affection, by bestowing a double portion of fraternal love, on each.
Our young soldier, whose ardour for glory was extreme, was all gratitude to his supposed mother for suffering him to follow the bent of hi! inclination; and, at the appointed time, he quitted London, with a heart filled at once with bravery, and tenderness.
In order to divert the melancholy which affected Charlotte for her brother’s absence, lady Sandford invited the feigned mademoiselle dc Beaumont, and her supposed daughter, to pah .Some time at her seat in the country. The invitation was readily accepted, and there Charlotte, now in her Seventeenth year, first saw lord sev mour.
Her beauty was then only in its dawn, bu even then, like Aurora breaking through th( clouds, it gave a promise of the brightest day The tender regret she felt for her brother’s absence, gave an additional softness to her voice; and manners; and the exprestive sensibility ol her large hazel eyes, seemed increased by ha gentle distress.
Such
‘C
  103
Such an amiable object could not fail of inspiring passion, in a heart less susceptible than lord seymour’s, ' or indeed, any heart, that was not guarded by a prepoffession. He soon felt the moll ardent, and sincere affection for her, nor was he the only person who was sensible of the power of her charms. The young duke of
B -- -- saw her at a ball at Northampton, and
became instantly enamoured -- -- He waited on
lady Sandford in a few days after, and with all the precipitancy of youth, high rank, and fortune, proposed himself to mademoiselle de Beaumont, for her daughter.
Whether charlotte’s delicacy was really hurt by such a proceeding, or whether she then felt a preference for lord Seymour, she instantly rejected the duke’s proposal, with an air offierte, unknown to her before. Mademoiselle de Beaumont, who tenderly loved her, acquiesced in her determination, and resolved not to acquaint her real parents, that such a match had been proposed.
Charlotte was transported at her feigned mother’s kind condefcension, and promised the most implicit obedience, which indeed she had ever shown, to all her commands. She began now to recover her spirits, was all cheerfulness, and vivacity : and from this pleasing transition, Ihe acquired, if possible new charms; and each, and every day, lord Seymour became more and more enamoured.
The two happiest months of charlotte’s life were now pasted, and mademoiselle de Beaumont talked of returning to London. Before they fet out, lord Seymour found an opportunity of difclosing his passion to Charlotte. She received his declaration with that frankness, and candour, that ever dwell with generous minds;
E A. but
104
but at the same time, told him, that she considered herself under such obligations to her mother, for her conduct: towards her, in regard to
the duke of B -- -- --, that Ihe would never liftei
to any perfon’s addresses, who had not the fano tion of her approbation.
The enamoured Seymour, whose passion wa as truly delicate, as the fair object that infpirei
it, was now at the summit of felicity -- -- -- -- h
threw himself at charlotte’s feet, and poure forth his soul, in the warmest expreltions of gratitude, for her generous and unaffected behaviour; and at the same time, obtained her leav to apply to mademoiselle de Beaumont for he consent, as soon as they should return to Lot don.
He was permitted the happiness of attendir them thither, and the day after their arrival wail od on mademoiselle de Beaumont, to entreat hf leave to pay his addresses to her lovely daughtei True love i) ever timid, and conscious '''■
was, that the advantage birth an
fortune w CL Vrf VII HU 5 nee, he felt perhaps mo apprehensions on this occasion than a your ensign would at addrestlng a lady of the highe rank.
All that he knew of charlotte’s circnmflai ces or condition, was, that her mother pash for the widow of a general officer, that hi fortune was small, but Sufficient to Support b little family genteelly, with economy; ar that she had maintained an unbshmished reputi tion in London for near Seventeen years.
But how were the generous and difinteresh seymour’s fears increased, when msdemoifel de beauiiiont told him she was highly Sensible 1 the honour he intended her daughter, but th; she thought her yet too young to marry, ar
th;
  105
/
that ssie had laid herself under an engagement, never to dispose of Charlotte, without first consulting her father’s family and friends! stie conjured him as a man of honour, not to mention his passion to Charlotte, as by inspiring her with a mutual one, he might perhaps render them both miserable.
Lord Seymour instantly told her it was out of his power to obey her injunction, as it was by charlotte’s permission he had then the honour of entreating her consent, and that he neither could nor would desist from endeavouring to gain a heart, on which all his happiness in this lif« depended. Mademoiselle de Beaumont was moved, even to tears, at the unhappy situation of the lovers. She too plainly saw the obstacles that must prevent their union, but generousty promised and resolved to do everything in her power for their nhutual happiness.
Lord Seymour ventured to remonstrate to
her, that with regard to the duke of B -- -- ’
proposal, ssie had acted as foie parent and guardian of her daughter, and he could not see the necessity of farther constiltation for accepting, than refusing a lover. She owned her tenderness for Charlotte had in that cafe triumphed over her promise, but ssie had even then, only astumed a negative power, which was more in right of her daughter, than herself, for ssie never could think it just, that either parents or friends should even persuade a person to marry contrary to their own inclinations. She told him she would write immediately to France, and represent his lordship’s birth, fortune and person, in the advantageous light in which she beheld them.
Exalted as his ideas were of the object of his passion, he had great reason to flatter himself,
that his alliance would not be contemned by any
E 5 fanrilv
100 1 iin jonnicai n oisi kiiss.
family in France; and when he considered that the exquisite perfections of his charming Charlotte must be unknown to those persons, who were to be consulted in the disposal of them hit fears would sometimes vanish, and his fond heart beat, with all the transporting hopes of successful love,
Charlotte who had never heard mademoiselle de Beaumont talk of her father’s family till now, considered the difficulties that were started in another light, and fancied she only. meant them to protract the marriage, till she should be eighteen, which she had often heard her say, was full early for a young lady to marry, However, without inquiring she perfectly acquiesced in her supposed mother’s conduct, and while she had the happiness of Seeing and hearing the tenderest of lovers'and most charming of men, she knew not a wish ungratified. Mademoiselle de Beaumont fulfilled her promise, by writing immediately to the' general, and mentioning lord Seymour in the justest and of course most pleasing light.
It happened that the general and his lady were at that time at Aix la Chapel, where he had been Seized with a violent fever; and though the letter was forwarded to him, as the characters of the Superscription were known by his lady, it lay for Some time unopened.
During this interval the fictitious mademoiselle de Beaumont was attacked by the Smallpox, which appeared of So malignant a Sort, that her fate was quickly pronounced by her physicians. As soon as she was acquainted with her disorder, she forbade Charlotte to come near her, as Ihe had never had it; but in vain she commanded, or lord Seymour entreated her to absent herself a moment from her bedside. She said it was her
'first,
V
0
%
/
  107
first, and should be her last act of disobedience;; for that reason, she hoped her dear and tender parent would pardon it.
Overcome by her filial piety, they suffered her to undergo such constant and violent Ctigue, as at any other time, would have destroyed her delicate and beauteous frame. But (he supported it with such a tender alacrity and attention, as amazed and affected every one who saw her: even lord seymour’s love was increased by his admiration of her virtues, and rose almost to adoration.
When mademoiselle de Beaumont was informed other danger, which was but a few hours before her death, she desired to be left alone with Charlotte. — After embracing and imploring bleffmgs on her, she told her that neither her time nor strength, would permit her revealing a secret that was of the utmost consequence to her. But as she had ever endeavoured to be prepared for the tremendous event that was now come to pafs, she had kept a journal of her life, from the time she quitted the convent de — —, to the moment of her illness; that in those papers she would find her own History included, and that of her real parents.
Charlotte, though drowned In tears, was als attention, till those astonishing words, her real
parents! smote her ear. -- She then cried out
ah, madam! will you not only abandon, but deny me? Alas!. what has your Charlotte done l \ comforted, my more than daughter, she replied; I was not worthy of such a blesting.
Yet still,. I hope, more worthy than they who possess so rich a treasure, regardless of its value. But if their hearts, so long hardened to your blooming virtues, at length relent, and give you;
to the worthy Seymour, yon will have no cause
to
io
to regret their pall; neglect, or court their futur protection. May you be happy! This key irg one from her bosom) will explain whatlcan^ not. And now adieu, for ever!
The sudden effeols of surprise joined to thole of grief, quite overcame the afflicted Charlotte. — — Site fainted, and was conveyed senseless to her own apartment. Mademoiselle de beau n ont continued to breathe, till she heard Charlotte was restored to life; then yielded up her own.
The next dawcharlotte was Seized with convulsions; and immediately after the smallpox appeared, but of a safe and gentle kind — the malignity of the disorder had Spent its force upon mademoiselle de Beaumont; and the low state both of charlotte’s mind and body, rendered its operations less powerful. Lord Seymour never quitted her apartment, though not permitted to enter her chamber; nor could he be prevailed on, even to rest himself on a couch, till the physicians pronounced her out of danger.
As'soon as it was possible she Saw him: he appeared more altered than herself. Never was such an interview between two lovers. Their present loss of beauty Seemed to augment their fondness; and each felt more real tenderness for the other, than at any former instant of their lives, Lord Seymour, though he lamented the death of mademoiselle de Beaumont, very sincerely, now thought that every bar to his happiness was removed; and as Charlotte appeared to be the mistress of her own fate, he had no apprehensions that his could be unhappy.
She had laughed at madame de beaumonss Superstitious attachment to distant relations, whom she had not seen for many years, he therefore
could not suspect her being infected with the
same
  109
same caprice. The mother said, she was bound by solemn engagements to the family of Beaumont; the daughter could have entered into none, as Ihe left Paris when an infant. He had therefore, no reason to imagine that any power on earth could oppose his felicity; and indulged his fond imagination with respective views of fancied bliss, which he was fated never to enjoy •'
The smallpox had been so favourable to Charlotte, that Ihe had not been affected with the least mark or alteration of feature; and the natural whiteness of her showy Ikin, soon triumphed over the transitory redness, which is the common effect of that always disagreeable, and Somtimes fatal, disorder.
But though her beauty had returned, her cheerfulness scenr^ed buried in mademoiselle de beaumont’s tomb. Her affliction for her as a parent, would perhaps have shbstded into a calm and gentle melancholy; but her last words had raised a tumult in her bosom, which (he had not resolution Sufficient to conquer. She frequently endeavoured to persuade herself, that her dear mother had raved in her last moments; but the strength of her expression, and calmness of her manner, opposed that fond belief.
After her recovery, whole weeks elapsed without her having courage to open the cabinet, where the mystery of her fate lay concealed. She feared to meecwith new obstacles to that happiness, which she had promised herself, by being united to lord Seymour;
His delicacy had yet prevented him from expressing his ardent wishes for their union, as thf cause of her amiable distress was yet too recent; and many months might possibly have pasted a wsy, in the same irresolution, if the receipt of
the
no
r I
the following letter, had not precipitated this point, to a more immediate crisis. 1
t0 Mademoiselle de beaumont.
Aix la Chapel.
NEVER was amazement equal, to mine, at ** perusing your last letter! What, you I wretch “as you are, raised by my hand, and supported“ “my bounty, presume to dictate to me in “the diipofal of my child! And who is this “lord Seymour? is he not an neretic? if so that is sufficient objection, were he a ** prince.
But surely, madam, since you take upon “you to inform us of intended marriages, and act as plenipotentiary, between our daughter, “and ourftlves, you should have informed us “of the duke of B — ’s proposal, and no more “have dared to refuse, than accept, a lover, for “Charlotte Beaumont.
“The young duke, himself, has informed ** me of his simple attachment to the silly girl, and of the insolence with which his proposal was rejected. He inquired, whether She was
“of our family? I did as I ever shall, disclaim “her.
“The general, who has been ill of a fever, “by me commands you on receipt of this, to ** fet out with Chjarlotte Beaumont, .instantly “for Paris. He has devoted her to heaven, and found out a fit retreat for that purpose, in the “convent of St. Anthony. Be it your business
** it is your duty, to teach her an implicit “obedience, to his will.
She is now of age, to be trusted with the ‘‘ secret of her birth; but let her also know,
♦< shat
b •
, »
, i •
* t '
• t
I
s ^ I
THH onnicai n ois iknss. lu
** that when she relinquilhes you, as a mother “she is not to expect to find one, in
“Charlotte Beaumont.
“P. S. The general, and I, shall return to
Paris, in a few days, where we expect not to
see, but hear from you and Charlotte.
“The moment you arrive at the hotel An“ “you are commanded to send to the ge“ “; but on no account attempt to come “near our house.’’
The situation of the unhappy charlotte’s mind, upon reading this letter, is not to be described. Who is this cruel woman, Ihe exclaimed, that thus disclaims an unoffending child? Oh! I will throw myself beneath her feet, and soften that obdurate heart with tears. My father too; I have a father then! Sure he will raise me up in his parental arms, and bless me! They will relent; and when they see my Seymour, and know his wondrous worth, his wondrous love, they will be charmed, as their fond daughter is and give me to his wishes.
Full of these warm, and natural apprehensions, the half diffracted Charlotte flew to the cabinet, which like pandora’s box, contained a thousand ills, and with a trembling hand, unlocked it. The first objects that presented themselves to her view, were miniature portraits of
her father and mother. -- She gazed with joy
and wonder. Never had she beheld such striking
beauty, of both kinds; the manly and the mild.
She kissed, embraced, wept over them; nay, knelt to them, implored their pity and protection, and, in one moment, was inspired with more respect and tenderness for those inanimate
figures
ii
figures, than she had ever felt for her supposed mother; though gratitude and esteem had answered all the purposes of filial affection in her gentle nature.
She now sat down to Search the book of fate, those Satal Sybils leaves that told her doom; and while she read, felt every passion that the human heart is capable of. -- Yet shll her love and reverence
for her parents remained predominant; ^ and she determined to Sacrifice herself to their
unnatural commands and pass her days in a cloiftcr, if she could not prevail on them.to change their cruel purpose.
She quickly Saw how improper it would have been to acquaint lord Seymour with her real Situation, as he would, doubtless, oppose her returning to France, with all the eloquence of love. -- -- Yet to quit him without making any excuse, or to descend to invent a false one, were equally repu^ant to her tender and generous nature. /
She had been bred in the Roman Catholic faith, but had never conversed with bigots, noi once thought that marrying the man she lovet could be, deemed a crime against any religion The idea first shocked her, on her mother’s pronouncing him a heretic; and she resolved tc make the difference of opinions a pretext foi postponing their marriage, till she could prevai upon her parents to give their consent; whid she vainly hoped she should be able to obtain frorn their tenderness, and his uncommon me rits.
They know the power of love, said she, an will not, like vulgar, and unfeeling minds, at
tempt to oppose his uncontrollable decrees. -- --
They will regard lord Seymour, for their Char lotte’s sake; and his tenderness for me shall ap
pea:
I ' i.
I
  113
0
pear by that love and duty that he Shows to them.
Thus did the unhappy visionary fair one amuse herself, till lord Seymour came to pay his daily visit. He had been used, for sometime past to see her melancholy, and, at times, disturbed; but as soon as he then saw her, he perceived that her whole frame had been uncommonly agitated. And when he tenderly entreated to know the cause, she answered only with a flood of tears; and begged he would not press her on the subject.
Though his fond heart was alarmed by a thousand different fears, he chose rather to bear that cruel state of suspense, than distress the object he adored; and immediately desisted from any further inquiries. When he left her that evening, he felt an unusual degree of anxiety, and was Several times tempted to return, and beg to know the source of her distress;; he feared tc by difobeyingr her commands; and
hoped, at their ttsxt sheeting, her chagrin might be dispelled.
Lord Seyniour vasto go out of town for a few days, to the nuptials of a near relation; and his loved Charlotte had bid him adieu, with a more than usual tenderness. Charlotte resolved to lay hold on the opportunity of lord seymour’s absence, to fet out for France. She had found in the late madame de beaumont’s cabinet about two hundred pounds, in bills and money; out of this sum ftie difeharged all her Servants except her own maid, whom she determined to take with her. She ordered one of those she parked with to remain in the house, till lord seymour’s return, in order to deliver him a letter, whicti she should leave for him. i
She., I
h4
She had now, she thought, fettled mattersii such a way, that nothing remained to obftrue
her purposed journey. -- -- But, alas! the mot
difficult part of her arduous talk, was yet t
come. -- -- She was now to bid adieu to the ma
her Soul adored. She knew not what paffic was, till the Severity of her fate compelled h to whh to conquer it. A thousand times 11 attempted to write to him, who was now dear than ever to her, but could not find words th were capable of expresting her complicated fe( ings. — Two sleepless nights, and miserable da thus palsed. She dreaded lord seymour’s retur and, on the third, while the chaise waited to a ry her off, she wrote the following lines.
To Lord Seymour.
“WITH a heart and eyes overflowing w the sincerest tenderness, at the thought being Separated from the only man 1 ever di ** or ever shall love, I find myself incapable “taking even a transient leave of him. 0 “may it prove so!
“My flight must appear extraordinary ** you. Why am I not at liberty to explain i ** motives? But be assured, they are Such ** your honour and virtue would approve, thou your fondness might oppose the effect;. I ** then, my dear lord Seymour, to render n “Self worthy of you; to ease my heart of So “Scruples which, only, can prevent its be “wholly yours.
If heaven Smiles upon my purpose,)
“shall hear quickly from me; and Surely ini
** cence and love. So pure as mine, may cla
its care. But should it, for wise purpo:
V unknown to me, blast all my flattering ho
((
  115
of happiness, and doom me to the lowest: “wretchedness, thy image still shall dwell ** within my heart, and shield it from disho “nour.
“I WOULD say more, but cannot; the
** chaise waits to carry me -- -- from whom I
“from thee I What agonies are in that thought! “Nought but the hope of meeting soon again, “could now enable me to say.
Adieu,
Charlotte Beaumont.’’
As soon as she had Sealed her letter, she flung herself into the chaise and pursued her journey; which she performed without meeting with any uncommon accident.
In a few hours after she fet out, her brother, who had been near two years absent, returned to London. His bravery had raised him to the rank of captain; and, as the war was then over, he had obtained leave to vistt his friends in England.
He had not heard of mademoiselle de beaumont’s death till he came to her house, and was at once informed of that and charlotte’s a.brubt departure. The amiable young man was ex trerriely shocked and grieved; and in the midst of his tears for mademoiselle de Beaumont, lamented the uncertainty of his loved stster’s fate; and determined, as soon as it was possible, to pursue her steps to Paris.
Just as he was quitting the house, his eyes swollen with tears, and his aspect imprested with the deepest sorrow, lord Seymour came to the
door. -- -- Young Beaumont istued out, regardless
of a man he had never seen before; and lord Seymour,
ri
mour, though at first surprised at his appearanct, upon receiving charlotte’s letter, thought of him no more.
Indeed all traces of recollection seemed t have been instantly erafcd from his memorj and he remained like a man suddenly transiixe by lightning. It was sometime before he ha power to ask when she fet outi* or whither Ih was gone? And when the servant replied to h queries, he continued to repeat them, withoi receiving the information he So earnestly desire, He read her letter a thousand times, yet wou neither credit that nor the servant’s affirmatio that she had left the house; — He ran distracted through every room, calling on his dear Cha lotte’s name; and crying out. It is impostibl she must be here! O do not kill me for thy Spo my love! But when he found his Search was vain, he retired to shis house, in a state ve iittie Short of distraction.
The moment cur fair ftrgitlve landed at C lais, she wrote a letter to each of her paren filled with expressions of the humblest dut nnd tenderest affection. She accjuainted th( with the death of her supposed mother, a mentioned her obligations to her with the hig est gratitude and esteem. She implored th I; permission to throw herself at their feet, and tl
I they would allow her a happiness she bad be
I sh long been deprived, that of receiving a j
i rent’s blessing.
is In vain was her tender and virtuous mir
t
i enriched with every noble and generous fer
i ment, that could do honour to humanity; i
il|v!
i cruel parents were literally, in the state of i
I deaf adder : they shut their ears and eyes to 1
I pershctions; and reshled to receive the high
|| “' " pleas
ll!
THE DELHJATH DIS 1 kbss. 117
pleasure that human nature is capable of, that of beholding an amiable and accomplished child.
As soon as she arrived at the hotel Angloife, she found a servant waiting with a letter for her, which contained these words.
‘‘ Charlotte Beaumont,
Y O U are commanded to accompany the ** bearer of this, who will conduct you to an “apartment that is provided for your reception ** this night. tomorrow a carriage shall at tend, to convey you to the convent of St. anthony— — general is too much indisposed“ “see you at present;; — he is able he “will call upon you there.
“An implicit obedience to our orders, which particularly enjoin the strictest secrecy, in re“ “to your connexion with us, can only “prove the truth of those professions of duty “which you have made.
“You are still to appear in the state of an ** orphan, which can be no great difficulty to one who has so lately known that she has pa“ “If you have brought a servant, she must “be dismissed tomorrow, and sent back to Eng“ “If you have occaston for money, the “bearer will supply you.
“Adieu.
“C DE Beaumont
Up ON reading this letter, all the tender ideas of filial affection, which had thronged about poor charlotte’s heart, seemed to vanish, and the poignant anguish she had felt, at tearing herself from her fond and generous lover, returned with double force.
She
• .0
ii Ttin jonnicatn uis i Knss.
She, however, determined not to halt at beginning the race; and turning to her conductor, with the utmost mildness and resignation, said (he was ready to attend him; and hoped when (he was lodged for the night, he would do her the favour to wait till (he Should write a few lines to
madame de Beaumont.
^ *
He told her he was ordered not to bring back any letter or meltage, and hoped she would not take his refusal ill, as he durst not venture to disobey— — tears now forced their way into charlotte’s eyes. She told the Servant she would not be the cause of his disobedience on any account; and that she was ready to follow him.
He put her and her maid into a chariot, and directed the coachman where he was to go. When they alighted they were shown into a very elegant apartment; and her conductor, after inquiring whether she wanted money, or any farther assistance from him, being answered in the negative, bowed and withdrew.
As soon as he was gone, the now miserable Charlotte gave vent to all her sorrows; she threw herself upon the ground, and washed it with her tears. Her affectionate servant, who had lived with her from her infancy, without knowing the cause of her distress, vainly endeavoured to console her; entreated her to return to England j and talked of lord seymour’s love and constancy.
Her every word struck daggers to the unhappy charlotte’s heart. — As soon as she was able to speak, she told her maid she must part with her the next day; that she determined to go into a convent for sometime; and advised her to fet out immediately for London. The poor girl, who truly loved her, was almost distracted, at feeing and hearing her mistress look and Speak So: and positively declared she would never leave
. her,
4
  119
ler, let her determination in life be what it would.
Charlotte peremptorily insisted on discharging her from her service;; told her she would support her in Paris, while her money lasted, and that she might sometimes see her at the convent. This, in some measure, quieted the poor fervant’s anxiety; but charlotte’s unhappiness increased very hour. — She went not to bed, and the pearly drops remained on her fair cheek, when the fun had exhaled those of
the dew.
\
She wrote a few lines to let lord Seymour know that she was going into the convent of St. Anthony; and, in her distraction, gave the letter to her maid to deliver, without reflecting that the faithful Nannette had resolved not to quit Paris, till her mistrefs’s fate was determined.
In the morning she dressed herself, and endeavoured to alsume an air of composure and tranquillity, with a breaking heart. About ten o’clock, the same person who had attended her the night before, came in a coach, accompanied by madame de beaumont’s woman, who presented her with the following letter;
Charlotte,
^ V
‘‘ BOTH the general and L are much pleased ** the accounts we have received of your behaviour. Any remonstrance against our commands would be at once presumptuous and “vain. Continue, therefore, to deserve our favour, by a Silent and unlimited obedience.
“You are already informed, that the gene
** has devoted you to heaven. let not his,
“will, who has an absolute power over you,
“appear Severe. A convent is the only place
“where
120
%
where true happiness is to be found.^ that
“you may meet it there, sincerely wishes
C DE Beaumont.
** P. S. You are expected to enter upon ybur ** noviciate immediately
Charlotte received this cruel sentence with amazing fortitude. To her perturbed ad wretched state of mind, the quieter asylum of a cloister, appeared not undelightful; and had not her passion for Lord Seymour revolted againl! the severity of her doom, she might have been led like a lamb to the sacrifice, without a sigh or groan.
Madame de beaumont’s last letter seemed less farouche, than her former one; and this encouraged Charlotte to hope that time and her obedience might possibly awaken the tender feelings of maternal love, in her hitherto obdurate breast. She inquired whether she might be permitted to return her thanks for madame de beau mont’s favour in writing? and was again answered in the negative.
She took a most affectionate leave of her diseonfolate maid, who followed the coach at a ■ distance, and saw her enter those gates through; which she was never to pafs again.
When they had arrived at the convent, madame de beaumont’s woman presented Charlotte to the abbess, as a willing victim. She was, therefore, received with every outward mark of esteem; and the grostest flattery was lavished by the whole fisterhood, on those charms, which they vainly imagined an acceptable sacrifice to the great creator of them.
Deluded
THE DTLICATE DISTRESS. 121
Deluded mortals! -- -- -- the heart alone is all
that he requires! nor do the tender charities of life, the love of parents, husband, brethren, children, pollute the oblation, but render it more pleasing in his sight, who first ordained, then sanctified these natural ties. t
Chalotte showed not the least reluctance at entering on her probation. — She knew that a year must elapse, before she could be compelled to take the veil; and still flattered herself that fate would dispose of her in another way, before that time should expire. She imagined, that by a seeming acquiescence, she might be able to lessen, if not entirely remove, any restraint they might otherwise" have been imposed upon her.
She made no doubt, that lord seymour’s paf ston would prompt him to pursue her; and she fully determined to acquaint him with every circumstance of her life, if she should ever have an opportunity. For this purpose, she employed every leisure moment she was mistress of, sh framing a little history, from the papers she had found in the cabinet, with the additional circumstances that had happened from the time of her leaving London.
As she scarce ever appeared in the parlour, or at the grate, the fisterhood beheld her as the paragon of sanctity;; her edifying example was quoted as a pattern for all the young ladiea in the convent. The little talk she had imposed on herself, by ashustng her mind, kept up her spirits, so that she seemed to have acquired a constant habit of cheerfulness.
But when her work was finished, and two months had elapsed, without hearing from her father, rnother, or what was still more interesting, her lover, she fell into a lowness of spirits, which terminated in a slow fever. She now
F looked
ji2
looked upon herself as abandoned by all tl world; and the cruel suspicion of lord Seymoui inconstancy, perfectly reconciled her to the gb my prospect of perpetual seclusion.
Her faithful Servant continued to see her fr quently, and as osten mingled her tears wi those of her unhappy mistress. As (he was oi day musing on the uncommon miseriei of b Site, her maid approached her with unufu chearfulness, and cried out, O, Madam! he come.
A TRANSITORY joy now Sparkled in Chai lotte’s eyes, and the Soft bloom that had forfaks 'her cheek, returned with added blusties. Whei is he? (he replied; and ah! how could he fta so long! Didst thou see him, Nannette, andh he mourned my absence??
that instant, one of the lay listers cami to inform Charlotte, that a gentleman delirei to see her. She flew to the grate, but how wa ■her surprise increased when instead of lord Sep mour Ihe beheld her brother?
•if anything could have abated her joy at feeing him, it must have sheen the difappointmenl She felt, at not meeting lord Seymour. Bat though sher expectation had been highly raised with the pleasing hope of such an interview, lit was sincerely rejoiced at the unexpected sight ol her much beloved brother.
He immediately began to expostulate will her, on her quitting England; and earnestly it treated her to leave the convent, and put herfeli under his protection. She told him that was not at present in her power, as Ihe was then in kt noviciate, but promised not to take the veil, without his approbation, which she was certaij would follow every action of her life, when In
was acquainted with the motives j and, in ordt
■ ' ti
f
  123
0 explain both her situation and his own, Ihc would send him some papers to peruse which ivere of the utmost consequence to them both.
Captain Beaumont was aftonilhed at the nyfterious manner which accompanied his filler’s words;; as he had the highest opinion of her lonour and understanding, he, for the present, up'preffed his curiosity about the secrets She hinted at, and retired to his lodgings, to wait till Mannette should bring an explanation of the nyftery, in which he found his innocent and iinhappy Sister involved.
Captain Beaumont had left London, the lay after his Sister, and easily traced her through the progress of her journey; but when he arrived at Paris, as he had no clue to guide him, be wandered near three months in pursuit of her, and but for the accidental meeting of nan nette in the street, he might have spent as many pears in the same fruitless inquiry.
Lord Seymour, whose ardour and impati snce to recover his lost fair one, was even more [anguine than a brother’s could be, was not so early in his pursuit. The agitation of his mind, upon receiving charlotte’s letter, had thrown him into a violent fever, and it was above three weeks before he was able to follow his fair fugi: ive.
When he came to Paris, he was much at a loss to direct his inquiries as her brother had been — he had heard of her along the road, and also of captain beaumont’s following her; and from the description he received of him, had no doubt of his being the same person he had seen at her house, the day she left it.
Love and jealousy are twins, and it is impossible to defend the heart from one, if you admit the other. It was apparent to him that this per
F 2 fon
124
fon and Charlotte were connected; and his northeast'
'having seen or heard of him, increased his apprehensions of his being a favourite lover. Yet why, if that were the cafe, should Charlotte continue to deceive him? why write such a tender and affectionate.adieu? he knew not, unless it were to lull his fears to sleep, and prevent his endangering her lover’s Safety. Thus did the unhappy Seynnour increase his own calamities, and drag about a. wretched Hfelefs form, to every public place in Paris, in she fond hope of meeting those transcendant charms that were now buried in a clcifter.
The Sight of her brother had raised poor charlotte’s spirits, by reviving her hopes of getting out of she convent. Yet of what use would she exclaim, is liberty, without love? Seymour abandons me, and the world itself i now become a solitude to me, more gloomy even than this cell. But grant his love and constancy should still fubfist, and that he is this moment as wretched as myself, could he receive into his family the natural and rejedied daughter of such cruel parents! no, there is no resource for me on earth; these walls for ever must confine this hapless frame; my heart alone is free, and flies of course to him!
As soon as she had leisure she enclosed mademoiselle de beaumont’s papers, her father and' mother’s pictures, with a letter from herself to her brother, acquainting him with everything that had pasted, stnce her arrival in France, and entreating him not to mention the affinity between them at the convent, lest it should give offence to their parents, and occasion their being restrained from feeing each other for the future. She earnestly implored his protection and altill
ance, toward releasing her from the state she wa
%
DELICATE DISTRESS. 125
in, and promised to be guided by him, in every action of her life.
Notwithstanding the inhuman treatment that Charlotte had met with on pern Sing the papers, captain Beaumont was transported at finding himself so nearly related to the general — the pride of blood is inherent; and the Sanguine hope of preferment, from such a high descent, dazzled his reason. He flew directly to his Sister, and told her with the precipitancy natural to a young man, that he was rejoiced at the discovery, and would go and throw himself at his father’s feet, without having the least doubt of a favourable reception.
In vain Charlotte remonstrated against such an unadvised proceeding, and mentioned the humility of her own conduct, and the severity of her parents, notwithstanding; in order tc deter him from making the experiment. She feared that his approaching the general without any introduction, would be construed into want of respect, and that Ihe should be condemned for
informing him that he had a right to do so >
but he was not to be restrained.
■'she pasted the night under the most gloomy apprehension, yet would often say to herself, what have I to fear? can I be made more wretched? let me then receive the only consolation that remains for misery like mine, the knowing that any change must be for the better. hapless maid! a change will come, that shall render your present state by Sad comparison, a Scene of sost tranquillity and ease.
The next evening, on being informed that captain Beaumont was in the parlour, she flew to receive him; and after alking a thousand questions with her eyes and tongue, she laid her
cheek close to the grate to listen to his answers.
^ At
A
126
At that instant she beheld lord Seymour enterbg the room. The agitation of her mind was now increased almost to distraction : Ihe knew tot what she said or did; and was utterly incapabit cf expresting the joy stie felt at feeing the dear idol of her soul Her brother appeared dejeflej and unhappy; and the mistaken Seymour attributed her confusion and his melancholy, to motives which their souls were strangers to.
We have already hinted that jealcufy had infected his noble nature; but feeing the object of it, with the woman he adored, added a thousand stings; and he now felt, in the fupremeft degree, its poignant anguish. His behaviour tj Charlotte was constrained and cold. He tolil her he was indebted to that gentleman, pointing to her brother, for the happiness of feeing her: as he could rot easily forget his having met him At her house, the morning she left London, lit naturally supposed he could inform him wbett she was; and having accidentally seen him, juf ' then enter the convent, he had taken the libertjf
to inquire for her, and hoped she would pardoi his intrusion. He added, that he should leav! Paris in a few days, and desired to know if Hit had any commands to England.
Though Charlotte was astonished athisbe haviolir, she had however penetration enough to discover the cause, and said she hoped shelhouli be able to prevail on him to prolong his stay, ai she flattered herself with the thoughts of returning to England in a few months, and should will to have him her conductor.
He bowed, and replied he should think himself happy to be of any Service to her, provided he did notintersere with another person’s right; hot as he believed that gentleman was her chief motive for visiting France, he was doubtless entitn
to
.   127
to the honour of atttending her to England, or wherever elfe she pleased.
Charlotte was rendered miserable, by lord seymour’s suspicions; yet as there was other company in the parlour, she knew not how to obviate them, as she was yet ignorant, whether she might dare to own captain Beaumont for her brother. The latter was much Surprised at lord seymour’s manner. — He knew not of any connexion between Charlotte and him, and thought her too condescending.
The rest of the time they staid, was passed in a constrained and difficult Situation. However, Charlotte sound, and Seized an opportunity of Speaking the words which are quoted in her letter to lord Seymour, already related, before the gentleman withdrew.
* My dearest Henry, let. not appearances disturb your mind; I can, and I will, account for ‘ every action of my life to you. — Let your Ser ‘ vant attend at the grate tomorrow, for a let ‘ ter from me, and you shall be fully Satisfied
0
Though charlotte’s mind was perplexed with a thousand doubts and fears, both for her brother and herself, the transport of having seen lord Seymour, triumphed over them all; and she once again enjoyed a transient gleam of happiness. She knew it was in her power to remove all his suspicions: she neither doubted his love nor honour; and was certain he would assist her in getting out of the convent, should they attempt to compel her to take the veil.
After writing a few lines to lord Seymour, and making up her pacquet for him, she lay down to rest, with a heart more at ease, than she had ever felt. Since the death of mademoiselle
F 4 de.
128
de Beaumont. But the bell had no sooner rung for matins, than (he was presented with the following note:
“My dearest; Charlotte,
“I DIE by lord seymour’s hand; — Some fatal mistake has caused this tragedy. If he is your friend, let him fly to preserve the only one you have now left. My cruel parents will rejoice at my fate, and I only lament it for your sake.
Adieu, I fear for ever.
'Charles Beaumont, ”
Nothing, but the immediate loss of her fenses, could have preserved her life. — She sunk motionless upon the ground; and nature by being totally over powered, afforded Some little respite to her distracted mind. She remained in this Situation, till the nuns, alarmed at her absence from the chapel, cafne to Seek her in her cell. But when their cruel care had brought her So far back, as to show Some stgns of life, she could neither speak, nor weep. She appeared like grief personified. She neither beat her bosom, rent her hair, or committed any act of outrage, but continued almost immoveable, till a letter was brought her from madame de Beaumont, which contained these words:
i
I
I
4
■ “Accursed be the hour that gave thee
birth, and doubly cursed the moment when thy pretended filial piety brought thee back to France, to ruin and destroy the peace of them, whohad been blessed, if thou hadst never been bora! Why, parricide, and fratricide in one, didst thoii inform the unhappy wretch, who is now fallena victim to thy vices, of his affinity to us? Thy father never will furmoun^ the shock which he
received
thn linuica 1 Ji lilst KHSS. j2g
received from feeing him,, and with his latest; breath, will curse thee for being the cause of his, and thy brother’s death.
“But thou, I doubt not, triumphest; in thy wickedness, and fondly hopeft to wed the murderer of thy brother. But here thy crimes shall end. — Thou shall immediately be conveyed to La Salpetriere, and made fenstble of the unmerited kindness thou hast: hitherto received, by the Severities thou shalt hereafter experience.
C BP
We might suppose that when the unhappy \ Charlotte had read her brothcr’is note, her miseries could scarce admit addition; but her inhuman mothers letter convinced her that the cup of Sorrow, though Seemingly brimfull, is always capable of increase.
She was Seized with inexpressible terrors at the thoughts of being sent to La Salpetrisre. She was fenstble the abbess and nuns where she thera was, treated her with the utmost: kindness; for as they looked upon her as a voluntary victim, she had never experienced the least restraint, but what the common rules of the house prescribed:. She had been accustomed to the [tenderest treatment all her life; and her present melancholy st tuation demanded it more than ever.
After perustng the cruel anathema, that doomed her to still greater miseries, she flew into the abbess’s apartment, and prostrating herself before her, with a stood of tears implored her pity, and protection. The good woman was moved at her distress; and raistng her from the ground, assured her that no authority except the express order of the king, should force her from that house; and that if her enemies should attempt to procure a mandate, by any false repress
5 fentation,
130 i UK JO nnic A 1 n Dis 1 kehs.
Sentation, she would exert her utmost abilities to protect her.
Charlotte now considered the absolute impossibility of any future connexion with lord Seymour, and therefore looked upon her continuance in the convent of St. Anthony, as anafy lum most devoutly to be wished for. She thanked the abbeis on her knees; and would at that instant have taken the veil, without repining, if they could have abridged the time of her probation.
She had now no longer any terms to keep with madame de Beaumont; and therefore mentioned the misfortunessher brother had met with, and entreated the abbess’s permission, to send hourly to inquire his health. Her request was granted; and she retired to her cell in Some degree less wretched than she had left it.
, Eu T when her tortured imagination represented
her still dear lord Seymour, as the executioner of her brother, her grief was without bounds, Ye, she would say, lam, indeed, accursed! west does my mother style me So. — Yet are the erne words, to pass maternal lips! Oh! hadftie but lonce blessed me, I could not be the wretch I am.
It is impossible to describe the various emotions of h er distracted mind; yet still love rt' mained triumphant; and she strove in vain, t( pursue what she thought the dictates of her duty the hating of lord Seymour.
icaptain Beaumont continued to languilli w thout hopes, for near three months; duritij which time, she received the following let from Lord Seymour,
7
I
r
'%
f
0
V
Lo Mademoiselle de Beaumont.
“CONVINCED as I am, that I have given
you cause to detest: the name of him, wltomow presumes to address you, I would not, madam, intrude upon your Sorrows, but to offer you the only atonement, wshich you can receive from Such a wretch as me.
I MEAN to inform you, madam, that I do not intend to fly from justice; I knew the Severity of the laws, when I incurred their cerisure: and the moment that precious life is ended, which I have robbed you of, I mean to offer up my own, worthless as it is, in order to expiate as far as is now possible, the crime of having rendered you unhappy.
‘‘ But Oh, my dearest Charlotte! may I not hope, that when my blood has washed away my stains, exhausted as the fountains of thy beauteous eyes may be, with grief for my too happy rival, thou then mayest Spare one tear, to the Sad memory of the lost,
Seymour.’*
t
There wanted but this last stroke, to render Charlotte the veriest wretch on earth.. She had flattered herself, that lord Seymour had quitted France, immediately after the duel, and that his life at least was Safe; and that, at sometime or other, she should be able, to convince him of his error, and her innocence; But now she beheld him wilfully devoting.himself to the rack, and suffering torture, greater than even that can inflict, from his mistaken opinion of her inconstancy.
It was impossible that her delicate frame could longer Support the complicated agonies that as
failed
132   '
failed her mind. She fell into Caging fever; during her delirium, she raved incessantly o( racks, and gibbets, of Snatching Seymour from them, and Suffering in his place. At length, however, the natural goodness of her constitution, and her blooming youth Surmounted this dreadful disorder, and her reason and wretched ness returned together.
The first gleam of peace that broke through the horroi s of her fate, were some small hopes cf her brother’s recovery; and in consequence of those hopes, she by a Solemn vow devoted herself to heaven, if it should be pleased to Spare his life. But not all her religion and virtue could prevent her as firmly resolving not to outlive lord Seymour, should he Suffer.
As Soon as captain Beaumont was able to (it up in his bed, he wrote to his loved Sister, congratulating her on his deliverance from death, exculpating lord Seymour as far as possible, by condemning himself for not avowing the relation between him and Charlotte, before their engagement; but irom a false punctilio, he had thought it beneath an officer to use any argument in his defence, except his Sword; and therefore by his manner had rather confirmed lord Seymour in his error, of fupposing him his rival, than undeceived him; for which he begged both his lordship’s and his sister’s pardon.
He then gave her an account of the interview he had with his father, and of the disgust and surprise, which the general expressed at Seeing him; and that he had peremptorily commanded him to quit Paris, jmd join his regiment immediately; and farther informed him, that if he attempted
to disobey, he would have him broke with infamy.
He
»
iirin linnica 1 n oib 1 kilss. 133
He said, he had however, reason to hope that the misfortunes he had met with, had Softened his father’s heart, as he had been attended during his illness, by the first Surgeons in Paris, who came to his assistance unfcnt for, and unpaid by him; and that if his sufferings had made his father relent, he should for ever bless the hand that had inflicted them.
The pleasing hope of her brother’s recovery, was the most healing balm that could have been administered to charlotte’s wounded heart. She no longer trembled for his life, or what was dearer still, lord seymour’s; and she began in Some measure, to be reconciled to her fate, merely by reflecting, that it might have been more wretched.
Notwithstanding all her efforts to conquer it, her passion for lord Seymour remained undiminiflied, and she would have given worlds, had she been mistress of them, to undeceive him. But though her faithful Nannette had made the most diligent Search for him, from the time that captain Beaumont was pronounced out of danger, she could not discover his retreat.
The time now approached for charlotte’s fulfilling the vow she had made to heaven, by taking the veil. The cruel madame de Beaumont had made Several fruitless efforts to prevail on the abbess to Suffer her removal to another convent; but as she feared to appear publicly in Soliciting it, lest the affinity between them should be revealed, she at last contented herself with endeavouring to enforce the utmost strictness and Severity, which their rules would admit of; with which the poor innocent sacrifice Unreluctantly complied.
As soon as captain Beaumont was tolerably recovered, he wrote again to his Sister, to inform
her.
134 ijtlll ojll/lt^air.
her, that he had received an ordof from his colonel to join his regiment immediately; and at the Same time, a positive commaiid from his father to leave Paris without feeing her. He conjured her in the strongest terms to renounce the veil, and to fly to lord Seymour for protection; and told her he was certain, that his lordship was still in Paris, as he had just then discovered that he was the person, who appointed and paid the Surgeons for their attendance on him..
The fair diseonfolate was now so enured to affliction, that she bore this fresh mark of her parents inhumanity, with gentleness and resignation;; alas! there was a woe Superior far to all they could inflict, and which like aaron’s rod, had Swallowed up the rest. Lord Seymour thought her guilty still!
She had preserved the pacquet she had made up for him, on the evening of their last interview; and on the day preceding that, on which she was to make her vows, she received the following lines from him.
LQ Mademoiselle de beaumont.
THOUGH I approach you now with leh terror, madam, than when I last presumed to address you, still does my beating heart, and trembling hand, avow your power, and amply revenge your Sufferings on the wretch who dared to offend you. But since it has pleased heaven to repair the cruel injury I did you, by restoring my rival to your prayers and wishes, will not the gentle Charlotte condescend to pardon, and pity, the unhappy man, who once thought
(fatal delusion!) himself honoured with her love?
I nr
1 ri T, IL X jx11.00. j35
“I FLY from Paris, madam, from the Scene of all my Sorrows; but they, alas! will be companions of my flight. Yet let me take one blessing with me, a last:, if not a kind adieu, from you.
“As you talked of returning to England, I never will revisit it — the Sight of the detested Seymour no more shall shock your eyes, or damp your joys — but let me wander where I will, the warmest effusions of this still doting heart, shall to its latest throb be poured forth, in blessings on, Ahl lhad like to have Said my angel Charlotte! My hand refules longer to obey its wretched master, and I can hardly Say,
Adieu. '
Seymour
t
Afflicted as the tender heart of Charlotte was, at her loved seymour’s deep distress, she felt a momentary joy at the thought of being able to recover his esteem, by proving herself worthy of his love. She instantly sat down, and with inexpressible anguish, wrote the letter, which has been already related, and inclosed it with the narrative she had before written of her life, to lord Seymour.
This dreadful conflict past, she felt a dawn of peace beam on her mind, and immediately gave orders, that no letter or message should be brought to her. She pasted the night in fervent prayer, and at the break of day Summoned her young companions in the convent, to adorn her for the Sacrifice with all the dignified composure, with which a queen puts on her regal robes.
Her
136 thb JL) ELI CATE D 1st KISS.
Her conduct during the awful ceremony, has been already delciibed by lord Seymour; ani sure a heart more truly virtuous, or a form more exquisitely fair, were never offered up at any shrine! And may that gracious power, to whom they are devoted bless all her future days, with that ‘‘ sweet peace, which goodness bosoms“ “
TXT w'tp'w w w w iir w Tjtf w w ntr "tff *»• w
J
LETTER XXIV
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
Th AT my dear Emily may not again reproach me, for attending equally to fordtin and domejuc affairs, I shall answer her two last letters, before I speak my sentiments of the truly amiable and unhappy Charlotte Beaumont. And first:, of the first; — Though you have desired me not to reply to it, I find the subject so very interesting and alarming, that I cannot in justice to you or myself, comply with your request — You certainly must have lived some days upon essence of tea, and reduced your nerves to the lowest state imaginable, before your mind could be affected by the circumstances you mention. Not that 1 would insinuate that lord woodville’s sudden confusion was not the effes: of a quick recollection, or conscioufnefs of Some former Scene, which he perhaps might wish to have forgot. In all probability it arose from the remembrance of some disastrous love adventure,; ' which obtruded itself involuntarily upon his
mind.
This point which you have barely hinted al, I shall take for granted; and then endeavour to
show
1 1
\
  137
show yoti the abfurdity of being alarmed on Such an occaston. Lord Woodville is now in his eight and twentieth year, and has lived both in foreign courts, and at home, as much in the gay world, as any man in England. — And can my dear Emily really suppose that she was the first object of his love? — Impossible! It is jmuch more reasonable to imagine that he had felt that passion half a dozen times, at least, before she was out of her hanging steeves.
But all girls flatter themselves with the entire possession of an hushand’s heart; which if he happens as in your cafe, to be seven or eight years older than her, is no more in his power to bestow, than youth or beauty. But if he gene rousty grants you all that remains at that time in his gift, you have not the least right to complain; and this, I firmly believe lord Woodville has done. Beware then, my Emily, of appearing ungrateful for this present; nor let him ever see that you do not confider, even the remnant of his heart, as a full equivalent for all your own. This I must confess to be a very unequal lot of affections; but the conditions of life should be acquiesced in, without too much refin ing.~
There never was an higher instance of delicacy, than lord woodville’s behaviour to you, in consequence of the temple adventure; but do not give him too frequent opportunities of exerting his gallantry: — you are a musical lady; and know that a string may be strained, till it breaks. I am perfectly acquainted with the tenderness and sensibility of your nature; but you are not to judge of others, by your own fine feelings; or think your husband deficient in affection, if he is not so minutely attentive to trifling circumstances.
138
stances, as your delicacy may prompt you to expect.
LES petits Joins belong; moss properly to female life: the great cares of fehe world are load Sufficient for the ablest man. I have now done chiding I hope for ever, as I never can Be angry with my Emily, but when she wounds herself..
The description of your rural entertainment, pleased me much. -- -- -- Whenever I go to Wood
fort, you shall take me to See your pocket Jrcadk • — No, upon Second thoughts, the Scene would be incomplete without a Swain; I therefore desire you will present my compliments to Sir James Thornton, and tell him, that I appoint him my Cecijheo for that party, if we should ever happen to meet at your house.
I AM not at all Sorry that lord Seymour has left you. — The constant anguish which he mull ever feel, was Sufficient to infect you all. This naturally leads rae to the charming nun. — I cannot forgive your want of ingenuousnefs, in not mentioning the million of tears, - her story muffi have cost you — there never was anything more affecting — Lucy and Iread and wept by turns — When one of us began to falter, the other endeavoured to relieve her; but there were many passages that neither of us could repeat aloud, and only gazed Silently on through the dim medium of our tears.
It really requires a perfect certainty of the facts, to suppose there ever were Such monsters in nature as the general, and madame de Beaumont. But charlotte’s unhappy fate is but too strong a voucher of their inhumanity. Yet miserable as the lovely vestal is, I think lord Seymour much more wretched — Time, devotion, and a thorough conscioufnefs of the rectitude of all her actions, may calm her Sorrows; whilst
■ his
  139
his must: for ever be aggravated, by knowing that he has rendered her unhappy. I think him truly to be pitied. Adieu, my Emily — Loves and good wishes from all here, accompany this to Woodfort.
F. Straffon.
LETTER XXV
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
I HAVE at present, a house full of company;
and therefore must content myself with barely acknowledging the receipt of my dear fanny’s friendly admonitions, which I frankly admit to be just, though I feel they are Severe. Call me no more a Spoiled child, when I So readily embrace the rod.
Lady lawson has been here these three days. There have been odd reports about Sir William, and the young lady I formerly mentioned to you, who vent to London, a few days before him. But I am persuaded they are false; for on Sir william’s return last: night, lady lawson received him with the most: genuine and unaffected delight, that could be expressed in looks or words; and I hear that miss Fanning (that is the lady’s name) is to return to lawson hall in a few days. The knight appeared a little embarrassed; but that might be owing to the meeting his lady in so much company: we were all assembled at tea, and knew nothing of his return.
You must; not expect me to be a constant correspondent from York : the fatigue of dressing twice, nay perhaps thrice a day, will afford me but little time for more rational entertainment.
There
■»
x40
There are no moments which I think So totally lost, as those Spent at the toilette; but the customs of whatever place we are in, must be complied with. Your Emily has not resolution sufficient to stem a torrent, and must therefore always be carried away with the stream. I will however, keep a sort of journal of the occurrences of each day, and you must accept of that, in lieu of my letters.
My reason for not avowing how much I wa affected, by the story of the nun,, was to avoid 1 taking off that Surprise, which gives strength to
every emotion. — When we are told that a tragedy is extremely tragical, we Summon our refo* II lution to oppose the feelings of our hearts; and I frequently shffer our pride to conquer its moll
graceful weakness: whereas, when we are taken by Surprise, we give nature fair play, and do not Ijl attempt to combat with our humanity.
Adieu, my dear Fanny 1 Woodfort sincerely I repays all the loves and good wishes of Straffon
Hill.
I ^
I E. Woodville.
y;
? • t.
I
I LETTER XXVI
111 '
ibb
ii
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
I T OUGHT, perhaps to be more thankful t( I JL dear Emily, ' for her last short letter, thai C for any other she has written to me. There i
I certainly the highest degree of merit, in givin|
1 pleasure to others, when the effort is attendei I with trouble or difficulty to ourselves. The be I stowing a quarter of an hour upon an abfeti I friend, while we are Surrounded with the chcar
  141
fill gaiety of present ones, Should always be considered as an high compliment.
You tnay see by this remark, that I feta proper value upon your kind attention; but I am still more charmed with your condescenfion, in admitting the justness of my arguments. Believe me, my dear, if we wish to be happy, we must make it a constant rule to turn away our eyes, even from the minutest failings of those we love; the suffering our thoughts to dwell long upon them, must insensibly lessen our affection, and of course our felicity.
There cannot in my mind be a more pitiable object, than a virtuous woman, who ceases to love her husband— — a dreadful vacuity must she feel in her heart! How coldly and infipidly must her life pafs away, who is merely actuated by duty, unanimated by love I
Where there never has been passion, there may for aught I know, be a kind of mixed sensation compounded of esteem, and mutual interest that Supplies the place of affection, to the insenfible part of mankind. — If this were not the cafe, the generality of married people could not live so well together as they do. — But this wretched Substitute, will never answer to a man or woman, who has once truly loved.
I w o u LD therefore most earnestly recommend it to all those, who are So happy as to be united to the objects of their choice, to fet the merits and attractions of each other, in the fairest point of view to themselves, and never, even for a moment, to cast their eyes on the wrong fide of the tapestry.
Your account of the kindness, with which lady Lawson received her wandering Swain, very. fully proves that she is an excellent wife; but is by no means, a refutation of the reports relative
to
142
to him and miss Fanning. Your ignorance of the world and its ways, make such Scenes appear extraordinary to you. — But alas! they are too frequent, to be wondered at, in such times aj these.
I SHALL not, my dear Emily, instst upon your writing from York, if it is inconvenient to you; but as Fanny Weston tells Lucy, that you do not Set out from Woodfort this fortnight, every day of which I dare say, 'she thinks a year; I may flatter myself with the hopes of hearing from you, perhaps more than once before you go.
That Surprise increasesour emotions, I readily admit; but, as you had no reason to doubt the tenderness of lucy’s nature, or mine, you might have communicated your own fensations, without fear of abating ours.
Sir John is gone to London, for a short time; and Lucy and I are to Spend the days of his absence, not in retirement, as you might polfibly suppose, but in discharging a heavy debt of visits, which we owe to all the neighbourhood for five miles round. I think there are few Small evils that torture us So much, as what is generally I called a good neighbourhood in the country.
I Adieu, my dear Emily. I feel myself pee;
; at the idea of Squandering my time, with
I persons that I have not the least wish to converse
with, and asking Simple questions without the smallest desire to be informed. But as the world i: is constituted, we must compound for Spending
^ Some part of our lives disagreeably, and endea 1 your to make ourselves what amends we can, by
i ojoying that portion of it which is left to our
-, n disposal.
I Health,
i •
s
; i
t
'
  143
Health, and her fair handmaid chearfulness, attend my dear Emily.
F. Straffon.
LETTER XXVII Woodville to Lafist Straffon.
My dear Fanny is extremely kind, in Seeming to Set So high a value upon my Small, or rather no merit, in writing to her; for indeed I can never claim any, for what is to me the highest Self indulgence. — So a truce with your compliments, my too civil sister.
Do not be angry, Fanny; but I really cannot think with you, that true affection should be founded on illusion, which must be the cafe, if we are to be totally blind to the failings of those we love. — On the contrary, I have always considered the raising our ideas, of the persons we are to be united to, too romantically high, as one great Source of matrimonial unhappiness. By that means we become enamoured of a being, which exists not in nature, and feel ourselves mortified and displeased as at a real disappointment, when we discover that our imagination has exceeded the bounds of possibility.
But if absolute perfection were to be found on earth, it would wound our Self-love; and whatever injures that, can never be long dear to us. In the imperfections of our most amiable friends, we find a consolation for our own, which forbids despair, and places the generality of mankind pretty nearly upon a level. This equally creates confidence, and that naturally produces esteem and love.
As
144
As these are my real sentiments, I think I may venture to tell you, that I am very sorry I have never yet been able to discover one failing inmj lord. I declare, Fanny, this is a humiliating situation, to a creature so conscious of a thousand weaknesses as I am; instead of restraining me from Searching for his faults, I desire you will immediately provide me with a magnifying glass to assist me in the discovering them.
What an horrid idea have you conjured up of a woman who ceases to love her husband! There can be but two causes in nature that are capable of producing such an effect — for I talk not of those animals who never felt passion — The first of these must be a constant Series of ill treatment, which 1 suppose may at length conquer the tenderest affection; and the unhappy Sufferer who continues to act up to her duty, under such circumstances, deserves, in my mind, \ much higher fame than any Greek or Roman, that ever yet existed.
The other cause must be owing to a shameful and vicious depravity of heart, commonly called inconstancy; which to the honour of our sex, 1 think I may say, is not frequent amongst us, But when this happens to be the cafe, there is generally some new object in view; for that despicable wretch, “a woman of gallantry never ** changes her first love, till she is engaged in a “Second.”
I thank heaven for my ignorance of the world, and its ways, as I hope and believe, I shall never have any trial, that may render a knowledge of them necessary. I know not what to think, with regard to lady Lawson;; for mjr VI wn ease I will hope the isest, as it is impoltibie
that
%
/
  145
that I should be indifferent to anything that distresses her.
Sir James Thornton has had an ugly fall from his horse, and strained his right arm, but has not received any dangerous hurt, though he is confined to his chamber. Lady Harriet, and Fanny Weston are indefatigable in their attendance on him. I just now received a message from him, to inquire my health; which Seems a kind of tacit reproach, for not having been to visit him— — sister Lawson and I Spent all this morning in designing plans for a wood house;; — as we are neither of us partial to our own inventions, we have laid them by, and determined to be rather good copyists than bad originals. We have both agreed, that it was impossible to de vise anything more truly ‘ctegant than that on the terrace at Taplow, which is to be our model.
I have barely time to finish this, to dress, and look in upon Thornton before dinner. Adieu, my dear Fanny I I may hear from you again, before we Set out for York.
your’s ever,
E. Woodville.
4 ■
Ttr w w Tp w w w w tjr "Bfr Ttr w tb'w ttr trw w
LETTER XXVIII
Straffon to Woodville.
My dear Emily,
A SI aqa perfectly convinced that in the ac couist of our correspondence I am much our debtor, on the article of entertainment, I im pleased at having a little adventure to' •elate to you, though I cannot hope, that the
G recital
146
recital will afford you as much pleasure as the action gave me; but you must make the same allowance as you do for a play in your closet, anil furnish out all the Scenery, decorations, c. from the storehouse of your own imagination.
My tale runs Simply thus — As Lucy and I were returning home last night, from lads vaughan’s about eight o’clock, ihe Ilcy quite dark and rainy, one of the hind wheels of our carriage flew off; but as we were travelling at a very slow pace, in a miry road, we received no hurt from the accident. — We were about three miles from Straffon Hill, which was rather too, far for us to walk, as we were by no means ac'
'for Peripatetics; and just as ill qualifie(j
for an equestrian expedition; we therefore feol off the postilion on one. of the horses, to briii| the coach to us- -- ^
We Saw no friendly cottage near; but at th
I distance of a quarter of a mile in the fields, whid
seemed to us bright “as the, Arcadian star, oi “Tyrian cynosure.” One of thelervants discovered a path, that Seemed to lead to the man fion, from whence these charming beams hai issued.
We took him with us, and Setting forward soon reached the Small but hospitable dwelling When we knocked at the door, a little nes country girl appeared, and after, conducting u into a Small parlour. Said she would adquainthe young lady, that there were strangers there, bii that her mistress was at her devotions. We at
I
nounced ourselves to the girl, and she retired.
I WAS Surprised at this young creature’s moc of expression; stie Seemed greatly amaxed i ' our appearmnce, but her astonishment could onl be discovered by her looks. In. a few minuti an elegant young woman about eighteen, enten
tl
  147
the room, and after Saluting us very gracefully, inquired to what happy accident she was indebted for the honour of our visit??
courtlinefs of her address, and the ease of her manners, were all new Subjects of wonder, both to Lucy and me; which we could not help expressing, after we had informed her of the accident we had met with. She very politely
offered us tea or coffee — we declined both — but
• •
there was a much higher treat in her power, namely the gratification of our curiosity, which we could not however venture to propose.
When we had Sat about a quarter of an hour, the little Servant came in, and said her lady was come out of the chapel, and would be glad to see us — we were immediately shown into a room, the neatness and elegance of which it is impossible to describe;; the upper end of it, on a small Sofa, sat a woman with the finest form, though pale and emaciated, that can be imagined.
She rose to receive us, with Such an affable ' dignity, as at once attracted our respect and love; she was dressed in black, and appeared to be about five and thirty -- though she Spoke perfect
good English, there was just So much of the foreign accent in her utterance, as must prevent your taking her for a native of this country.
Over the chimney of the chamber we sat in, was a picture of a very handsome young man, and at the other end of the room, there hung one of the lady before us, in all the bloom of beauty, with her daughter, then about four years old by her fide, and a boy that looked like a cherubim, Seated in her lap.
As I gazed on every object round me, with looks of admiration, which the lady of the house could not help observing, she turned to me with an engaging Smile, and Said, the Surprise which
G a / your
148
your ladyship is too polite to express in words, is So perfectly visible in your countenance, that it would appear like affectation to Seem infen sible of it; and as there is no part, either of my past or present life, that should cause a blush to glow upon my cheek, I am ready to gratify that curiosity, which the extraordinariness of my Situation, Seems to have raised.
It will probably be near an hour, continued I she, before your carriage can arrive, and a much
less time will Serve to relate the few, though uncommon events, that have placed me in the circumstances you now See me. Both Lucy and I expressed our gratitude for Such an obliging offer, in the warmest terms, and entreated she would proceed — without more ceremony she began.
I AM a native of Italy, and descended from one of the most ancient families, of the republic of Genoa — About twenty years ago, I became acquainted with a young English nobleman,
called lord Somerville, whose picture you see there (pointing her beautiful hand towards the chimney; he was then upon his travels, and under age. — He became passionately in love with me, and Soon inspired me with more than gratitude; with honest heartfelt love.
With my permission, he applied to my father, for his consent to our marriage; well knowing that he could have no exception to his birth or fortune. We had not the least appre hension of my father’s refusal — but we had both forgot that my lover was an heretic. This was deemed by him so material an objection to out union, that he declared he would confine me to; a convent for life, rather than hazard my alva
tion by shch a marriage. — My lover was forbidden to repeat his visits, and I was Sent about twenty leagues off, into the country.
Lori
ftp *
'• i ^
  .j49.
Lord Somerville Soon discovered my retre^y|j(ip?
and got access to me, by the treachery or b^eapi w of a Servant, who was entrusted with the, carefuqf me. My father was informed of our interviews and determined to send me directly to a convent at Naples, where an aunt of my mother’s was, lady abbess. A particular accident let me into the Secret of my intended doom, and I no longer hesitated to prefer love and liberty, to cruelty and confinement. After lord Somerville had given me the most Solemn assurances, that I should preserve my religion inviolate, we were married, and Set out privately in a felucca, hired for the purpose, which conveyed us both to
Marseilles.
When we came to Lyons, we were obliged to wait there for remittances from England, before we could proceed farther After having ■ long expected them in vain, my lord received a very Severe and angry letter from his father, accusing him with having stolen the daughter of an Italian nobleman, and commanding him to restore me to my parents, and return immediately to England.
The distress of my hushand’s mind, upon this occasion, was not to be concealed; bu|<. it; was a longtime before he acquainted me with the real motives of his concern. Fondly and
^ if •
passionately as I loved him, I would have torn myself from his arms, and gone into a convent till his father’s resentment might have been appeased,
if my condition would have permitted it.
But I was then far gone with child, of that young lady before you, and lie in the tenderest mainer, assured rne that not even the commands of a father, should have power to force him from me, till he had the happiness of being
G 3 himself
/
150
himself a parent, and of feeing me in a Situation to Support his absence, or able to travel with him.
We had lived in the utmost retirement, and privacy from the time of our arrival at Lyons. — My lord had taken the name of fortescue, and no creature, except his banker, knew who he was — We were So perfectly happy in each other, that we wished for no other Society — my lord amused himself with teaching me English— — Such a tutor, I Soon became a considerable proficient; and at the time that my Laura was born, I could read and perfectly understand the most difficult English authors.
As soon as I was quite recovered, we Set cot for Paris, where my lord purposed leaving me, while he went over to England to pay his duty to his father, and to endeavour to reconcile him to our marriage. I will not take up your time, with attempting to describe our mutual sufferings at our Separation; such forms as yours, must have feeling hearts, and you can judge better than I describe what we endured.
My lord remained above a year in England, making repeated but fruitless efforts, to conquer his father’s resentment, against a person who had never in thought offended him; but alas! my ' being a catholic, was as unpardonable a crime to
j him, as my dear husband’s being a protestant was
to my father. Strange! that the worshippers of one God, and Saviour, whose doctrine was peace, and goodwill to men, should feel Such enmity and hatred to each other!
At rny lord’s return to France, I could not help perceiving a visible change, both in his health and Spirits, Though his fondness for me was undiminished; or if possible, seemed to be increased, by his tenderness for his daughter, who was I then near two years old. As my lord concealed
great
1
  15t
great part of his father’s unreasonable aversion to me, I was not without hopes that time would conquer his prejudices; which indeed I only wished upon my lord’s account; for while I enjoyed the real happiness of his company, there was not a desire of my heart ungratified.
In less than a year, that infant whose portrait you See there, was born— — the time of his birth my lord’s health and Spirits Seemed to revive, and I then certainly reached the zenith of human felicity; alas! how quickly did the wheel turn round, to lay me in the lowest: state of misery? With what rapture have I Seen him catch the infant in his arms, and Say, this bpy, this boy, my love, will plead our cause with my obdurate father, and Soften his hard heart? Would he were three years old! — but that blessed time will come, and we shall all be happy.
While lady Somerville repeated the foregoing words, her countenance became more animated, than it is possible to describe; but a Sudden gush of tears Soon dimmed the brilliant lustre of her eyes, and quenched the glowing crimson on her cheek. She rose, and opening a Small folding door, retired into the chapel.
The young lady Sympathised most Sincerely, with her mother’s Sorrow; and Lucy, and I who were extremely astected, were Scarcely capable of making proper apologies, for having been the innocent cause of renewing both the ladles afflictions. Miss Somerville Said everything that politeness could dictate, to make us easy;; in a few minutes, lady Somerville returned with Such an air of calmness and resignation as amazed me.
I TOOK the liberty of entreating that she would not proceed farther in her story, for the present. But as I could not avoid_being extreme
G 4 ly
«
152
I
I ly anxious about every circumstance relatives
, so amiable a person, I requested she would perniii
i rae to wait upon her, the next day, or whenewi
it vas most agreeable to her inclination.
Sh e told me she was very Sensible of the delicacy and propriety of my request, which llit; readily assented to, as it promised her thehappi
i ness of another interview with persons, for wholt
Sensibility and politeness, she had conceived thi highest respect : Said she was a little assiamej, that lier long acquaintance with grief, hadooi vet rendered her So familiar with it, aslhi might naturally be Supposed to be; but hopei we u’ould excuse the Sudden emotion, which to fora Sew minutes transported her.. She the entreated our company to drink tea, the nex ■ evening, and Said she would, if possible, be mot composed.
In about a quarter of an hour the coach ai rived, and we took leave of this charming unfortunate, with the most earnest desire to rent’ our visit, and the warmest hopes of beingfei viceable to her and her daughter.
I AM really fatigued with this long letter I' but I would not Suffer oblivious steep to steal an
; part of this extraordinary adventure from it
memory, till I had communicated it to my dei Emily. By next post, you shall have then mainder of the story; till then and ever,
I am affectionately yourss,
; F. straffoi
I...

I
J
■
*4
1
>‘l i
ill i ~
I
J
i
I '
4 '
I
hi '
I
* I /
LEI
J
:!
: ■ i
  153
f
LETTER XXIX
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
I
Lucy and I Set out immediately after dinner yesterday, and reached lady somerville’s elegant cottage before five o’clock. As we approached it by daylight, we discovered many beauties that had been hidden from us by the dun Shades of night; particularly Several Small clumps of trees, that were encircled with woodbines, orange and lemon gourds, and intermixed with a great variety of flowering shrubs: — a Small, but neat garden, at the bottom of which ran a rivulet So clear, and Sparkling, as to appear like liquid diamonds.
As we drove by the pales of the garden, we perceived a building in it, that seemed to be fitted up for a gardener’s house; and to our great astonishment, beheld a man of a very respecta ble appearance, about Sixty years of age. Seated in an arbour, with a book in his hand. We were received by both the ladies, with the same politeness and affability, as the day before. The folding doors which led to the chapel stood open : and indeed, Emily, there is no describing the elegance, with which the altar is adorned.
I AM an enemy to all devotional parade: yet I could not help constdering the decorations of this Sacred Spot, rather as the offerings of the heart to heaven, than a Sacrifice to vanity, as a I the ornaments that are placed there, were the work of lady somerville’s and her daughter’s hands.
As Soon as tea and coffee were removed, lady Somerville, without waiting to be entreated, proceeded in her narrative, thus — When I mention ^
G 5 eff
•>
154
CD my having reached the pinnacle of human felicity, I forgot to inform you, that my father had been reconciled to me, for Some time; and on the birth of my on, had presented me with his picture Set with diamonds, and desired the portrait of my lord, and those of my children.
But before this request: could be complied with, I had the misfortune to lose my only parent. — His death was Sudden, and he died withouta Will. This was the first real affliction I had ever known; and my lord, in order to divert my melancholy, proposed our going to the South of France.
I ACQUIESCED in his desire on his account, more than my own; for as his constitution was become extremely delicate, I hoped the change of air, might be of Service to him. We lived al Mantauban for near two years, during which time I had the constant anguish of beholding mj dear hushand’s health decline daily.
As he was perfectly Sensible of his own fitua i tion, he determined to take his little family to
England, and present his Son to his unkind father.
I Everything was fixed for our departure, when
■ Providence, to whose all wise decrees I bow myself
beneath the dust, thought proper to recall
the treasure he had lent us, and took mv little
«/
! cherubim, to join the heavenly choir!
No words can express the affliction of my loved lord, nor describe the wretched state, both cf his mind and body. Whole days he hung enamoured over the pale beauteous clay that vm hts child, nor would he be prevailed upon to re sign it to corruption, till weakness left him not the power of opposition.
From that time he sunk into a state, nearly approaching to infcnfibility, towards everything
except
0
  155
xcept myself; but to his latest moment his enderness for me was undiminished. Why should I dwell longer upon a Scene, which but to think of, now strains every nerve, and makes the' blood run backward to its Source! My misery was completed by his death, in less than Six weeks after that of my lovely boy!
“But I will stay my Sorrows! will forbid “My eyes to stream before thee, and my heart,
“Thus full of anguish, will from sighs restrain I “For why should thy humanity be grieved “With my distress, and learn from me to mourn “The lot of nature doomed to care and pain 1”
4
You may Suppose that lady Somerville was for Some time deprived of Speech; nor was there one of us capable of interrupting the melancholy silence, but by our Sighs. She however soon dried
her tears, and resumed her discourse. -- -- -1 shall
relate the rest of my story. Said she, though totally uninteresting to myself, as it will account for my present situation,
, WAS about four months gone with child, at the time of my lord’s illness; and his last request to me was, that I would if possible, lye in in England, and acquaint his father with my pregnancy, as soon as I arrived there. He told me that if the child I carried should be a Son, it would inherit the fortune and honours of his family; but if not, that there was no provision made for me; or any daughters I might have, as he was under age, at the time he married; and that the estate was intailed' upon a very distant relation. He’ implored me to preserve my life, for the sake of the poor Laura; and to throw
myself and her into his father’s protection.
As
.d56
As it is utterly impossible that I should give you an adequate idea of my situation, at that time, I will not attempt it; but endeavour to call fl veil over that Scene of distress, which no pen, no pencil, can ever be able to describe.
I SET out Irom Montauban, with my maid,, my chaplain, and my child, and arrived Safe in London. I obeyed my dear lord’s request, and wrote immediately to bis father. His lordstip was then in the country. He answered my letter with great civility, mixed with au affectation of
J 0*
kindness: Said he should be in town shortly, that he would then See me, and desired I would take care of myself for the Sake of the unborn babe, which he hoped would prove a Son and heir.
In a Sew days after I had received this letter, I V as informed that there were persons appointed to attend me,, till I was brought t bed, Idll should impose a Surreptitious child upon the family. I knew not that Such proceedings were nsual in my cafe, and I wrote a letter to my father-in-law, complaining of Such treatment, to which he never deigned a reply.
^ But all their apprehensions on my account,
i; were soon over: I was delivered, in the Sevenlh
r
month, of a dead Son; and from that time!
ti *
!i heard nothing farther from my lord’s father, or
LI any of his family, for above six months. The
II • little money I had brought with me into England,
I was now quite exhausted; and I was obiiged to
'apply, heaven knows how unwillingly! to this
, inhuman parent, for Some means of Support, for
Iiis son’s widow, and grandchild'
'his reply to my letter, he told me what I I knew before, that neither my daughter nor I
f ‘were entitled to anything by law; that therefore
I he advised me to go back to my own country,
r and he would furnish me with money to carry
L ' tnc
i'
I
  157
me there, provided I would leave Laura in England, to his care. That if I should refuse these terms, I mull: even provide for myself, as it was not his purpose to offer me any others.
When the mind has been once totally Subdued by Sorrow, we flatter ourselves, that we are incapable of being wounded by any new distress: but the idea of being torn from the dear remains of my loved lord, my only child, convinced me that there were still some arrows in the quiver of adversity, that had not yet been pointed at my peace.
I DID not hefitateone momentt, to determine that no consideration should make me consent to a separation, from all that was now dear to me on earth. lmust, indeed, have been absolutely void of humanity as himself, if I could have resigned my child into the hands of a man, who had never even desired to see her before.
I WROTE immediately to my brothers at Genoa, and acquainted them with iny distress. They very kindly assured me, that they would receive me and my daughter, with open arms at our return; but i it should be my choice to remain in England, they would take care that I should not want a Support there. They immediately remitted me bills for a thousanda/^^r/, and agreed to settle the Same Sum annually upon me, or more if I should have occaston for it..
At this instance of generostty and affection, my heart once more became expanded with gratitude to the Almighty, and with true Sisterly tenderness to my benefactors. I now began to make the first efforts towards Subduing the violence of my grief, and to be sensible that I might have been rendered still more wretched than I was, by the deprivation of my child, or our being reduced to ffavery for bread..
I SOON.
158 THE DTLICATE DISTRESS.
I SOON fixed upon the plan of life which! meant to pursue, and sent out my worthy chaplain, and my faithful maid, in Search of a retirement, such as you now See. In this Spot I have lived about eight years, in which .time I have had no manner of converse with any human creature but my own family; which now consists of my daughter, my chaplain and myself; my gardener, his wife and the little maid, their daughter, whom I your ladyship has Seen.
The only additional misfortune I have known in this place was the loss of my faithful Maria: she died about two years stnce; and as my daughter was then of age not to need her attendance, I have never attempted to Supply her place.
Rusticated So long as we have been, you will not I hope, ladies, be Surprised at the Simplicity of mine or my daughter’s manners. — Our situation is certainly a very extraordinary one, and must naturally have raised your curiosity, which 1 have endeavoured to gratify by a plain and artless narrative.
I WISH for your sakes, as well as my own,; that my story had been less affecting; but I shall
1 not make any apology for having drawn forth the
I lovely drop of Sympathetic Sorrow, which glow;
;; with brighter lustre on your cheeks than the
I most costly brilliant.
j Both Lucy and I poured forth our thanks,
% for her kindness and condescenfion in relatinghei
story; admired the constancy of her refolutior '. in remaining folong in retirement, but Seemed tc
hope that she might change her purpose. I saw she was dilpleased at shch a hint; but with great I politeness, laid it was the only shbject shedidnoi I wish to hear us talk upon, as it would alwayi
give her pain to distent stom our opinion, which
’I Ih<
LI
T!
- : 1'
'. i; L
  159
Ihe must ever do, both in word and deed, upon that Subject.
I THEN ventured to ask her if she wished that miss Somerville should pass her life in such a state of Seclufion? She Said, by no means; — So far from it, that she sent forth a thousand fruitless wishes, that Some lucky accident might happen to introduce her to persons of fenle and virtue, and of a proper rank, to lead her gently into life; — that she had heard the characters of all the persons of fashion in that neighbourhood, from her chaplain, who frequently mixed with the world in order to transact her affairs; — that as she was above flattery, she was also Superior to difguise, and frankly owned that her utmost: wish in this world would be gratified, if lady Straffon would promise her protection to her dear orphan.
I SCARCE Suffered her to finish the latter part of her Speech before I flew to and embraced her, and with great truth assured her, that my inclinations met hers, more than halfway. I begged that from that moment she would do me the honour to confider me as her sister, and that the lovely Laura might be henceforth deemed my niece.
Everything that delicate gratitude could dictate, was uttered upon this occasion;; we all appeared to be infinitely happier than we could have Supposed it possible for us to be in so short a time, after having been so very much afflicted.
Lady Somerville concluded with informing me, that her father-in-law had been dead about four years, and had left miss Somerville six thousand pounds. We agreed that Lucy should bring Laura to Straffon hill tomorrow;; I promised

io
ed to convey her back to her ladyship whenever she required her attendance.
You cannot, my dear Emily, yes you can conceive, the stncere pleasure I feel at havingit i in my power to oblige the an iable and unfortunate
lady Somerville. It must: certainly beanin finite relief to her mind to know that her daugh i ter has a friend and protector, in cafe Providence
shouh be pleased to put a period to her woes and take her to his mercy. But she must necessarily suffer a great deal in being Separated from her till ust shall have made it easy.
Laura is but just Seventeen, thoughshe looh rather older from the gravity and dignity of her. appearance. I flatter myself you will receive
Some entertainment from this narrative, which!
I I
have been as exact in as my memory would per • mit; and indeed it has for the time so intirelj engrossed my attention, that I am pretty sure i have not omitted a circumstance of any conle I' quence.
i'n.r ^
I EXPECT Sir John will return stem Londoi the beginning of next week. -- -- -- -- -- -1 hope he will
I be charmed with our young visttor; and that lad
4 Somerville will suffer him Sometimes to Spend a
; H hour with her.
! \ t V '
I Adieu, my c|ear Emily,
I ani, as ushal,
affectionately your’s,
if F. Straffon
hi ^ '
; L
II
■ I
il
t
■ ► /
; II ■ ■ ■ ■
'. I
II
hi
'LEI
♦ •;
■ ‘ ■
L!!
I!!
  ii
LETTER XXX
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
I Most Sincerely congratulate my dear Fanny upon the acquisition she has made to her happiness, by her acquaintance with lady Somerville. There was Something extremely romantic in the opening of your adventure, and I almost began to imagine that you had taken a trip to Fairyland; but everycircumstance, though Surpristng at first, is very naturally accounted for in the course of your narrative. I truly compassionate the unhappy lady’s situation;; again felicitate you on having it in your power to remove a very material part of her distress, by affording your friendship and protection to her daughter.
Lady somerville’s misfortunes are of the hopeless kind; it is not in the power of fate to restore her husband, or her fon; and slight observers would for these reasons, pronounce her much more wretched than those who are led on by a faint glimpseof hope to wander through the thorny paths of life in Search of .f^me imaginary bliss, which still eludes their grasp. But I think otherwise. When the grave closes on our joys, our prospects of this world must all end there; we can no more deceive ourselves, orb deceived. We fink, it is true, and fall with the dear prop which fate has torn away. Then reason and religion come to our aid; and when the first wild starts of grief are over, an humble acquiescence in the divine will Sooths our Sad Souls to peace; our hopes Spring forward to another goal, and pierce beyond the stars.
But while vain doubts and fears torment the heart, while passion has possession of the Soul, and
still
i62
still impels us forward through a maze, where our bewildered reason finds no clue, where peace is lost and keen disquict fills its vacant place; where our desires are raised but to be mocked,
i and cruelty repaid for artless love I -- -- -- Sure,
I Sure, this state is worse, far worse than lady So
j merville’s! She feels the stroke of death; but
lady Harriet feels a living torture! inflicted too by whom her Soul adored.
'I HAVE been led into this reflection by observing
that lady harriet’s health and Spirits have declined visibly, ever Since her unlucky interview with captain Barnard j andl am certain that his almost perpetual residence at Ransford hall, increases her disquiet. In his first act of inconstancy,
she might with great reason imagine that fortune only had turned the Scale in favour of hei rival, and she had still the melancholy consolation of supposing herself beloved, though bys worthless man.
His present attachment can arise only froii choice or gallantry : and it is certainly mud more difficult to bear contempt, than injury Had he died at that time he left her in Paris, he I grief for his loss would by this time have beei
., Softened into a gentle melancholy, which thought
might for ever have barred her pretenfionst happiness, would not have rendered her half f i ' wretched as she is at this moment, and I fear wi!
ever be.
ili Let not what I have Said upon this Subjel
make my dear Fanny think that I am notes tremely affected with lady somerville’s diftreh
S -- -- -1 acknowledge that her Sufferings have bet
'■ : great, but they certainly came to a period whe
II L her husband died; and time has, I doubt roi
insensibly lessened her affliction. I alsh hope th
LI. they
■!; •!
i :
  163
thcte is yet in reserve for her, the felicity of Seeing her daughter amiable and happy.
Adieu, my dear Fanny; my lord, and all this family Salute you and yours most: affectionately. I desire you will present my respects to lady Somerville and her daughter, both of whom I hope to have the pleafureof feeing when next I am So happy as to visit Straffon hill.
your’sever,
E. Woodville.
t
LETTER XXXI
From Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville. My dear Emily,
IA M So Sincerely charmed at the hope of your prophecy in favour of lady Somerville being immediately accomplished, that I can neither think, speak or write upon any other Subject.
-- -- Sir John returned from London in two days
after Laura had become our guest; she and I were just come back from paying an evening visit to lady Somerville, when he entered the drawing-room, and introduced a young Italian nobleman, who had been recommended to him, by one of his most intimate friends at Paris.
I NEVER beheld a handsomer youth; tall, graceful and finely made, with the strongest expression of sense and sweetness in his countenance — as he cannot Speak English our conversation was entirely Italian, in which, though Lucy and I are tolerable proficients, we were greatly excelled by miss Somerville, who has had the advantage of conversing with her mother, in that charming language from her earliest infancy. The first two or three days that our young
foreigner
i64
)
foreigner Spent with us, we imagined that his devoting the largest share of his time and conversation to Laura was owing to the easy fluency with which she Spoke his native language; out his motives remained not long doubtful; he h came very particular in his inquiries about her to Sir John, who gave him the fullest information of her birth and Situation in life. He seemed charmed at the account of both, and from that time his assiduity towards her appeared less embarrassed.
Nor is the gentle heart of Laura insenfible to his attentions: her blushes when he is mentioned, and down cast looks when he addresses her, plainly discover the state of her artless mind, She is really a very fine creature, Eimily, andl am truly anxious for her happiness. Shehasa Sensibility, a frankness, a delicate ingenuousness of, nature, not to be found in those who have had much commerce with the world, which Ihe owes to her Sequestered education with a parent, whose natural softness has been increased by a long acquaintance with affliction.
But to the purpose. — Last night the enamoured Lodovico explained his Sentiments to Sir John, and entreated him to prevail on me to introduce him to lady Somerville; though he confeffei that he found Laura extremely averse to a proposal which must for ever divide her from the tenderest of mothers; but as she seemed to have no other objection, he flattered himself that this ] might be Surmounted.
Sir john’s friend, lord Mount Willis, who recommended Lodovico to him, informed him that he is descended from one of the first families
i
at Genoa, that he is an only Son entitled to Ij a very large fortune, and still possessed of a much
i' higher treasure — an unexceptionable character.
L I NEEDED
1.:
ill:
  165
I NEEDED not much persuasion, to enter upon such a pleasing embassy. — I waited on lady Somerville this morning; she seemed a little alarmed at laura’s not being with me. I quickly removed her apprehensions, by explaining the cause of my visit. She heard me with the utmost attention, but could not help dropping Some tears when I mentioned laura’s objection to quitting her.
Lady Straffon, Said she, when I had finished my discourse, though my girl’s affection awakens all my tenderness for her, I will not Suffer her to sacrifice her welsare to my Selfish satissaction.
■ -- The world contains but one object for me;
let her be happy, and contribute to the happiness of a deserving husband, and I shall taste the only jay my heart is capable of. And should that long absent guejl ever deign to visit me again, it is to you the blessed minister of Providence, to whom I am indebted for its presence.
I endeavoured to restrain the grateful effusions of her generous heart, by assuring her that I felt almost as much pleasure as even she could be Sensible of from the prospect of Laurass future happiness. — We then agreed that I should bring Laura and Lodovico to wait upon her in the afternoon. -- The instant I return I will acquaint
you with the result of our visit;; then,.
Adieu.
F. Stratfon.
LET
m
166 THE DE LIC ATE DI ST R E S S.
LETTER XXXII
\
Lady Straffon, to Lady Woodville.
(In continuation).
JOIN with me, my dearest Ernily, in rejoh cing at the happiness which opens to the view of our amiable friends. But I will not detain you from the events which create their present joy. I carried my two young guests, Laura and Lodovico, this afternoon to lady somerville’s cottage; she received us with her usual grace and elegance : but when I presented signior Lodovico to her, I fancied I perceived a change of countenance, which I knew not how to account for. However fly presently recovered herself, and continued to entertain us with the greatest politeness.
After tea, I took Laura into the garden, under pretence of admiring a little grotto Ihe had lately finished, in order to give the young gentleman an opportunity of explaining bis fenti rnents to her mother. We had not been ten minutes absent, when the little country maid came running to us, and desired we would return immediately.
/ We were not a little surprised at thisfum mens; but judge how our wonder was increased on finding lady Somerville with her eyes ftream 1 ' ing, and Lodovico stated by her, with an air
that spoke him a sharer in her emotions! The [ moment we entered the room, she started up,
and taking her daughter’s hand, Come, said (he, I come and embrace your eoufin, the fon of that
1 friend, that more than brother, to whom we have
been indebted for the means of life so many years.
-., • Poor
< ’
■
  167
Poor Laura was unable to speak;; her eyes fully expressed the tender and grateful fenti mems other heart. The enraptured Lodovico seemed totally absorbed in the pleasure of gaz, ing on her. — After sometime lady Somerville turning to me, said. You see before you, my dear lady Straffon, the only fon of count Melefpini. — The instant I saw him, I was struck with the
resemblance of that much loved brother. -- -- --
but how could I flatter myself with the happiness of beholding his fon!
And now, my dear children, continued Ihe, though my consent awaits ye, be assured, that without the count’s concurrence, this union never can take place; write to him therefore, Lodovico, and let both him and you rest satisfied, that his will (hall in this affair determine mine.
In the mean time, I hope, said she, your ladyship will dispense with laura’s attendance at Straffon hill. Perhaps my brother may have other views for his fon; if soit is best not to indulge an affection too far, which may be productive of unhappy consequences: for, be assured, that however deserving the object, however virtuous the attachment, no marriage can be truly blessed, that pains a parent’s heart. — A too energic sigh accompanied these words: but, added she, when lady Straffon honours me with her company, I hope my nephew will attend her.
It was very vifib'e that Lodovico complied reluctantly with these conditions; and perhaps Laura, for the first time, Sound obedience difficult. — But as her ladyffiip Seemed determined, a bow of assent was the only reply that was made. Signior Lodovico and I returned home, soon after this conversation.
By the way he accounted to me for not knowing
i
L i68
!
‘ ^
II ing that lady Somerville or Laura were related
i to him, as he had always heard them called State
I, villa, which is their name in Italian. I find he
I intends making as much use as possible of the pri*
. vilege of attending me to lady somerville’s; (o
t that I expect lo pafs much of my time at the
: cottage.
a He is now retired to acquaint his father with
1 the happy discovery he has made of his relations,
j and his sentiments towards his fair eoufin. I
shall be truly impatient for the count’s answer. |i I hope it will be favourable; if it should not, 1
i fear all lady somerville’s precaution will be inliiffi
? cient to prevent the attachments of the young
r people, though I believe it would be impossible!
! draw Laura from her obedience.
! I HAVE been so much engaged in the affairs
lof the Somerville family for these two days, that
i I have scarce had leisure to think of ray own.
I You must therefore excuse my not entering
upon the critical distinctions you have made on I ‘ the various modes of misery in your last letter.
I heartily wish you would take the opposite extreme for your subject, and descant on your own j ' happiness; which I believe to be as perfect as i. this frail state will admit of. May it long continue so, sincerely wishes.
Your affectionate
j ' F. Straffon.
1 ■
I
I
<
1
4
L ' * *
I
i
|-
£.
I
i
9
, • k
's
I «
i
I »
»
•* •
i 'i L E
  169
LETTER XXXIII
Lady Wo ob YILLE to lajy Straffon.
IDO indeed, my dear Fanny, sincerely rejoice at the pleasing prospects which Seem to open to your new friends; I also congratulate you on being in so high a degree instrumental to their happiness— — think I may almost say, that Providence seems to interest itself in the future fate bf the amiable Laura.
There is something very particular in your becoming accidentally acquainted with lady Somerville so critically. — Had your meeting with this charming woman been deferred but a month longer, the connexion between ye might, in all probability, have been only productive of unavailing good wishes, and mutual esteem; — but the lucky arrival of stgnior Lodovico, has made you a principal performer in the great drama of laura’s life.
Though not an absolute predestinarian, I am apt to believe that there is a sort of fate in marriage; and as one absurdity creates another, I find I must lean a little to the Manichean doctrine to establish my thelis; by supposing that there is a good and an evil genius, which presides occafionalsy at that great crisis, on which all the colour of our future lives depend. I sincerely hope that laura’s union with the young melef pini, will be completed under the happiest auspices— — do not feel one doubt arise in my mind, with regard to his father’s consent— — only cloud which I foresee to intercept the brightest sunshine, will arise from the separation of lady Somerville and Laura — but that like a cloud also will pafs away; — for though the tenderest affec
H tion
170
tion for a husband does not oppose the natural claims of parents or relations, on our hearts, it in some measure lelsens their force. — Our hopes and fears are directed to another object; and self-love strengthens our attachment to that perfonon whom we find our happiness depends.
You see I have a passion for philofophiziog upon every subject;; — incidents do not abound it would be impossible to keep up even a monthly correspondence, without these little aids; I will not call them arts, for I detest the mean idea which is conveyed by that expression.
I SHALL be glad to have my expectations gratified, by hearing of the count’s immediate concurrence with his fon’s inclinations. — In the mean time, I beg you to present my complimenis to lady Somerville, and her fair daughter, and to assure them that I regret my not having thf pleasure of being known to them. — Fanny Weston is quite transported at the happy meeting o Lodovico and Laura; but Says, she can fcara believe it true, because it is likely to end So for j tunately..
I CAN perceive that lady Harriet has doubt with regard to the event; but as she finds m! Sanguine on the Subject she Suppresses them.
I Sir James Thornton, with a sigh exclaimec
i what an happy man is Lodovico, to find the oti
ject of his passion disengaged! This has left i
ij more in the dark than ever, with regard to h
I attachment, for I am pretty shre lady Harriet
I not his object.
I CANNOT help remarking upon this occafioi I how much the particularities of our own fituat
I on, affect our judgments with regard to others
I and how much more than we are willing to alloy
I our opinions are warped and biassed by it, evf
I in matters that appear indifferent to us. —
L Adlei
’
'J'!
II.
I’ i
il
  171
Adieu, my Fanny! — True love from me and mine, to you and yours.
E. Woodville.
W W WT£T W W W W w'httirwtw W
LETTER XXXIV
Straffon, to Lady Woodville,
My dear Emily shall from henceforth be our
augur. — Be her predictions fortunate, and be they ever verified 1
The .wished for pacquet is at length arrived; — it contained a letter for Lodovico, and one for lady Somerville. — The moment he had read his, which was fraught with congratulations from all his friends, and the most plenary indulgence from his fond father, to his ardent wishes, he entreated me to go with him, instantly to the cottage. — We almost flew there; and Lodovico in the highest rapture, acquainted lady s»merville and his loved Laura with the glad tidings.
Lady Somerville received the news with tear of joy: conflicting passions warred in laura’s face; gladness and grief took turns. The bright suffusion of her checks, the brilliant animation of her eyes, expreflted her heartfelt joy: but when she turned those eyes upon her mother, their radiance was obscured by starting tears; the transient roses fled from her fair cheeks, and left the lily mistress of the field.
Lady Somerville was affected by these sudden emotions, and retired to peruse her brother^’s letter. — She returned st>on, and giving it into my hands, said with a sigh, by this you may juge if I flattered my brother by calling him the most generous of men. Alas! why must I appear
H 2 unworthy
4
172
unworthy of his kindness by declining it? but when he knows my reasons for So doing, I hope he will acquiesce in them and pardon me. Upon reading the count’s letter I found, that after testifying his joy at his fon’s attachment to Laura, he added, that it was from the mother’s hand he hoped to receive the daughter; and conjured her, by the friendship that had ever fub sisted between them, to return to her native country with her children, to hold the first place in his house, and to contribute by her presence, to restore that happiness which had been deeply wounded by the loss of an amiable wife.
When I had finished the letter, whichiread aloud, I feel myself unhappy, Said lady Somerville, in not being able to comply with my kind brother’s request. — It is long, much longer than I thought it would be, since I devoted the remnant of my wretched days to Solitude.' — Here I have lived, and here will pafs that portion of my life which heaven may yet allot me.
As she spoke, I thought I saw her exprefiive eyes fixed on her lord’s picture, as if addrelting her vows to him. But she had scarcely finished, when Laura, springing from her I'eat, fell at her mother’s feet, and catching her hand, cried out, My more than parent! is it possible your love for me should have so little power? and could you part so easily with her, whom I have often heard you call the living transcript of your dear dead lord? But Laura must not, cannot quit her mother! all pleasing prefpects vanish at that thought; which makes the world appear even more a solitude than ever I found this cottage.
t ^ The parent’s heart was touched. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- No, my
I beloved child, said she, I will not bar your happiness.
— Since you desire it, I will again behold I the fatal place which gave me birth, and even
I strive
f
I. »
I
f
  173
strive to lose the Sad remembrance of my griefs, in your felicity. — I owe this sacrifice to laura’s filial tenderness. — What would my child have C more?!
Tears and embraces Supplied the place of language, or rather superseded it for Some time; but when their emotions had Subfided, the young pair expressed their joy and gratitude at lady so merville^s condescenfion In the’ most proper terms; and the evening was Spent in Such a manner as could only be pleasing to those who are blessed with feeling hearts.
The count has accompanied his letter with a very noble present, to enable his sister and niece to appear as the widow and daughter of lord So ■ — There is Something above pride in that thought.
As Lodovico and I returned home, he entreated me to use^my interest with lady somer i ville, to consent to his being privately married by f her ladyship’s chaplain, before they Set out for Genoa. — I think she can have no objection to? this request.
5 I HOPE I shall be able in a few days to send 1 my Emily an account, that this affair is happily i concluded.
Till then, adieu.
r
F. St RAFFON.
!
*
t
> •
t
i
»
H C F E TI

I
\
I
j74
LETTER XXXV
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
WHEN the Subjects are pleasing I find
narrative writing not So dull as I once thought — I begin lo fear I shall make but a poor figure in the epistolary way, when I have con eluded my little novel; for I honestly confess that my dear Emily beats me all to nothing in
the moralising strain. -- Sorry am I, on this
account only, thatl must now proceed to the denciiement of my simple yet interesting story.
Lady Somerville desired two days to confider of lodovico’s proposal; at the end of that time she expressed her consent in a most elegant letter to me. — She Said, that as she had on every oc
•i*
casion concurred with my requests, she hoped I would not think her Too presuming to make one to me; which was, that I would accept of her cottage with everything which it contained, except her lord’s picture, and that with my permission she would fill its vacant place with laura’s portrait.
1 WAS both pleased and distressed at her politeness and generostty. — I accepted her present— — that charming Sejour, I shall Spend manj hours in thinking of its amiable owner, and in reflecting on the inscrutable ways of Providence,, who after So many trials has been pleased to restore this valuable woman to her country and friends.
Such characters as hers, were never meant to droop in obscurity; she owes herself to fod ety, and villi hope recover Some degree of
that happiness she thinks totally lost, in the exercise
N
  175.
crcife of those virtues which in her retired state she could never be called on to exert.
Slight as the preparations were for a wedding, which it was determined should be private, they took up every moment of our time till yesterday morning; when Lodovico, Lucy, Sir John, my little Emily and I Set out together for the cottage before breakfast. — We were received by lady Somerville and the charming bride, with that graceful ease and politeness which is the result of good sense, and operates equally upon all occasions. After breakfast Sir John led Laura into the chapel. Lady Somerville presented her hand to Lodovico; the priest and altar were prepared; Sir John had the honour of personating l.aura’s father, and had the pleasure of completing lodovico’s wishes, by bes towing her hand where she had already given her heart. The fervour of lady somerville’s devotion was truly edifying; when the ceremony was over, she endeavoured in vain to Suppress her tears; but they were tears of joy.
Sir John presented the bride with a pair of earrings, and a cross of diamonds, and I had the pleasure of placing my picture in a bracelet upon lady somerville’s arm. From the elegance of our dinner and Supper at the cottage, I apprehend that lady Somerville is one of those extraordinary characters who do not think that the most refined understanding or the most exalted Fehtiments, place a woman above the little duties of life.
The new married couple are to dine with me this day. Sir John is gone to try if he can prevail upon lady Somerville to accompany them. Next week they Set out for Genoa; they are to occupy our house in town, while they stay in London. May their voyage thither and through
H 4 life
• A ■ F ■
176
life be attended with prosperous gales! Amen, and adieu.
My dear sister,
r
F. St RAFFON.
LETTER XXXVI
Wo OD VILLE, to Lady Straffon.
I Sincerely congratulate my dear Fanny on the fortunate denouement of her pleasing and interesting narrative, and join in her good wishes for the happiness of lady Somerville and the new married pair. — As you Seem inclined to rall| me on my turn for moralising I shall not exert it at present, though I think lady somerville’s story a very proper Subject for it.
But to deal ingenuousty, I have jajlcfljiga; reason for declining to expatiate on it than what I have mentioned, which is my being stinted in i time, as I am going to dine at lord withers’s,
where we shall stay this night. On Thurfdav we are to dine at Sir William lawfon’s, and, Friday is fixed for our Setting out for York.
; This short letter will probably be the lall
'i; you will receive from me till my return from
0 thence. If I were Superstitious I would not go
I to York, as I cannot help feeling a kindol
presentiment against it. Why did lord Seymour attempt to inspire me with this disgust?? will hii not reason farther npon the Subject. “Obedimct
I is better than sacrifice; but pray is nol
that Sometimes the greatest we can make? ■ II Affec
LI
■
! I ^
k
I.
''' i
  177
Affectionate regards and sincere congratu lations wait on the hosts and guests at Straffon hill, from all this house, and from
*
\
your’s most truly,
J
E. Woodville.
%
End of the FIRST VOLUME.
«
)
*
ll $
\
THE
\
Delicate distress:
A NOVEL.
IN LETTERS.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By FRANCES. VOL. II
*
l’amour northeast pent jamais fubstfter, sans pain, dans une ame delicate, mais Ses pain memes, font, quelquefois, la Source de Ses plus doux plaistrs.
Recueil Anonyme.
■ ■{
I
I '*
I
A
?•
'
J DUBLIN:
Printed for T. WALKER, in dame street.
MDCCLXXV.
/ •
t %
\ -
THE
DELICATE DISTRESS,
LETTER XXXVII
4
Dr Woodville to Lord Seymour.
I
IN justice to those friendly apprehensions which you Seem to suffer on my account, I think I ought to inform you, that the so much dreaded event, of an interview with the marchioness, is over without my being sensible of the least ill consequence from it. All lovely! all engaging, as she is 1 I had armed my heart with the remembrance of her former treatment; and though the little rebel did flutter at her sight,
I think its emotions were rather the effect of resentment than a Softer passion.
The worst Symptom I discovered in myself I will be perfectly sincere) was my being piqued, at the composure of her air and deportment, when she first Saluted me. Is it possible, Seymour, she can be really indifferent? or is it only the artifice of her Sex, that makes her appear so?
As
•
\
4 1 rin ounicai n ois 1 kilst).
As the room was very full, and she stood at some distance from me, before I could approach her, she was taken out to dance by lord bellingham— — her first minuet was over, she desired I should be called out; and though I felt the utmost reluctance to accept the compliment) it was impossible to refuse. I am certain I never acquitted myself So ill in my life. You have Seen her dance, and therefore know that the eyes of the whole company, were engaged by her, and my confusion passed unnoticed.
As I led her to her seat, she wished me jiif. and ashed if the fair cause of it was in the room!
! 'i
I answered yes. — She then entreated I would pre sent her to lady Woodville, whom she longer to See more than any person in England; as lor Seymour had told her that she was a perses beauty.
I I MADE no reply, but led her to the plac
where lady Woodville sat, who received her wit the utmost ease and politeness. I Swear to yo; j niy dear Seymour, that Emily never appear
half So lovely, in my eyes, as at that momen The innocence and gaiety of her heart, lighted u II her charms; and I flattered myself that the ma:
i chioness’s brow seemed overcast with the pa
I I hue of envy.
i' Lady Harriet and she renewed their acquaii
V tance; they all, soon after, joined your fist
Sandford, and continued in the same party, h the remainder of the evening. I danced counti dances with one of the mils Broughtons, andn turned home, triumphing in the just prefereni which my heart accorded to lady Woodville, (
[ the comparison I had drawn, in the ball root
between her and the marchioness.
Yu
id: : ‘ ^
! •
■ '
T''
I!; t .• (
xxi.l.l /l^l vlv/i^xxw iyioxxvj ^oo. 5
Fe AR for me no longer, my too timid friend; but congratulate me on the most arduous of all vioiories, having conquered myself.
your’s, ever,
Woodville.
LETTER XXXVIII
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville.
Hot wells, Bristol.
Dear Woodville,
I Thank you for the attention you have shown to those apprehensions, which you Seem to think groundless. I did not expect to hear from you, during your (lay at York. The constant hurry and dissipation of the Scene, would have been a Sufficient excuse for your Silence, both to me and yourself, if you had not fancied you had not good news to communicate.
I know you incapable of the Smallest deceit, and am certain that you think your last a faithful transcript of your heart. But alas, my friend! you impose upon yourself, if you imagine your passion for the marchioness extinot; or that it is possible for you to give a preference, however justly deserved, to any other woman breathing. Therefore, for the truly amiable lady woodville’s sake, I conjure you to avoid all future comparisons, as I think it will be highly injurious to her merits, to put her on a level with that object, which your partiality has made you look upon as the standard of perfection.
After the confession of my own weakness, I Condemn myself, for reasoning with you, upon
this
*
V \ t XX jjj! jl i JL XX X jla X^JL kj X XX jlj kj kj0
\
. this Subject;. — I know it is preaching to the winds.
— Our passions make our fate; and we ought to suffer, without repining, those calamities we bring upon ourselves : but what philosophy should enable us to bear the heartrending agonies, of having involved the innocent in our punishment, and rendered the amiable, and deserving unhappy! Who can Speak peace to my heart, I when I reflect upon the; miseries, in which I
I have plunged the ever dear Charlotte Beaumont.
I KNOW this horrid image will shock your nature, and, for a time, you will shudder at i yourself. But quickly Say, these are the gloomy
visions of seymour’s disturbed brain. I would not make my Emily unhappy for the world then fly directly to the marchioness to banish the
thought. -- -- But I have done, for ever, on
^ the theme; for if this picture does not Speak to
yoiir heart, I cannot paint more strongly.
My wishes for your happiness but without I hope, except in flight, shall still attend upon you;
and my highest esteem shall ever wait upon the lovely lady Woodville.
Seymour
1 I
'1'
i LETTER XXXIX
J’ • •
b
Lord Woodville to Lord Seymour.
t
: d
t My dear Seymour,
I confess your last letter shocked me extremely, but not from the motives you may poltibly I imagine. I am truly grieved to find your mind I so overclouded, or ingrained, with the dark tints
I f melancholy, as not to allow your reason fair
i play. answer me, were you not just then re! turned
H
I
i
I •.
;
  9
turned from the methodist’s chapel, when you sat down to write? When I expected congratulations, Songs of triumph, and the laurel wreath, how could you cruelly pop an old-fashioned prophecy upon me, of what never was, nor is, nor ever shall be!
But away with thy dismal presages, thou pseudo magus 1 Havel not told thee, infidel as thou art, that no action of my life, should ever discover the real state of my heart to lady Woods
V X ^ ^
vine, or make her think it was not all her own? Have I not been married above eight months, and am I not, now, just as tender, and obliging, as the first day we were united?
Had ST thou real pity, or compassion, thou wouldst advise me to desist from my pursuit of the marchioness, on her account, rather than lady woodville’s. O Seymour! what a triumph would it be, if I could humble this proud beauty, and pay her Scorn for Scorn! again reduce her to that soft trembling voice, with which she first ^ uttered those dear Sounds, 1 love I
Recall her image to your view, on the first night we met her at the Bois do Boulogne.
What perfect beauty, amazing grace, and native modesty, beamed round her angel form! — There is a picture for you: and I hope much more to the life, than your Tifiphone.
I HAVE often thought of ashing you, by what talisman or Spell, your heart was preserved, from becoming her instant victim? syou did not know your Charlotte then. Perhaps you felt the marchioness’s power, and loved like me; but in pity to your friend, endeavoured to fuppress your passion. I should adore you, if I thought it were So.
I do not think her half so beautiful, as she was then, though her person is much more improved
8
proved— — can be gazed at, now, without a blush; and wears a rouge, I Suppose, in order to heighten the finest complexion in the whole world.
We met this day on the race ground. She has engaged me to hold a pharo bank for her, at 1, night; and engaged me to prevail on lady Wood
I. ville to be of the party. -- -- -- -- She Seemed vastly
I charmed with her; but whenever she mentions
her, assumes a peculiar air of Sensibility- --
I think I heard her Sigh, when she pronounced
I the name.
II What an odd mortal was I, to Sit down to
LI write, when I have Scarce time to breathe? Sir
1 i [il '
I James thornton’s mare was distanced : he has
y lost above five hundred pounds; but what i!;
!; | worse, I think he has lost himself. — 1
never Saw shch an alteration in any creature: 1 il am almost Sorry I brought him to Woodfort.
y The ladies fancy he is in love, but I canno
II get the secret out of the simpleton. Lady Wood
|| ville and her nymphs are much yours. I intrea
i! you will drink half a dozen bumpers of Burgun
; il: j dy before you lit down to write again, to
III your’s sincerely,
111 ' WOODVILLI
a
III
Si L E T T E R XL
Ijl Lord Woodville to Lord Seymour.
iiii
I A H, Seymour! what a tale have I to unfc
Ij xjl 1 I am undone, for ever lost tovi
f tue, relapsed again, to all my former follies.
I dote, I die for love! Do not despise me, Southeast mour, but once again stretch forth thy frienc
han
  9
hand, and strive to save a Sinking wretch. Alas it is in vain! fate overwshelms me, and I must yield to the impetuous torrent. But hear my story, first, before you pronounce stern Sentence on me, and guilty as I am, perhaps you will pity me.
For Some days past, the marchioness contrived to throw herself perpetually in my way, and strove to engage me in the most interesting conversations, by hinting at particular Scenes, in which we had formerly been actors. Fool that I was, the recollection charmed me, and my weak heart expanded with delight, at the repetition of its former follies.
Last night your sister, lady Sandford not being well, declined going to the ball. The marchioness Sent to lady Woodville, to desire she might attend her to the rooms. Emily politely assented, and they went together — she returned and Supped with us.
After Supper, she Said she hated being cooped up in a carriage, at the course, and alked if I could lend her a horse, for the next day. The ladies informed her that no woman of fashion, ever appeared on horseback, at a race. She replied, she had no idea of a falique law, imposed by jockies; that she despised all vulgar prejudices, and would be the first to break through this arbitrary rule, if she could engage any lady to accompany her.
She soon prevailed on miss Weston, who rides remarkably well to be of her party, and again applied to me for a horse. I told her I had not one, that had been used to carry a lady, but if (he would venture on that which I usually rode, it should be at her Service.
She accepted my offer, and after dinner the next day, Fanny Weston, Ransford, and I, attempted
lo
tended her at lady sandford’s; and sure there northeast. ver was So lovely a figure as she made, on horseback!
Diana huntress, inistrels of thegioves!
“The charming isabel, Speaks, looks, and moves.”
When we came to the race grovnd, allthe company thronged rpund her, and though ths horses were then running, she Seemed to be the Sole object of every one’s attention. She affected to be displeased at the general gaze, and said i if there was room in lady wcodville’s carriage,
she would get into it. We rode up immediatel] ■ to it, but on perceiving that Emily was in thi
chariot, and lady Harriet with her, she wouh not Suffer me to mention her design, lest itmigh be inconvenient to my wife, whose present con ditionis now very apparent.
ttiornton was by the fide of the chario talking to the ladies who were in it. Heimmi diately retired to make way for us to come clos: :! Crowd had followed us, and some one of the
li horses struck that on which the marchioness rod
V ' — it immediately made an effort to disengagei
11| Self from the throng, and in Ipite of all (1
1 11 could do, ran away with her, with Such am
I’ Aing Swistnels, that it Seemed to outgo all t
Si racers.
: | I FOLLOWED instantly — O Seymour judge
ill my emotions, when I Saw her fall to the groui
Si when I came up to her, she was fenfeleis, t
0 •’ il ■ ^ ^
closed, and her face covered with ble
LI b'
Il' and dust. I railed her in my arms, and held!
||| to my breast; but unable long to Sustain 1
|||! weight, in thati posture, I shnk down gent
III held her on my knees, and gazed in stupid
lence.
ilii'hi
'■liiil' 'J
'iif!' ill ill I
  II
At that instant, numbers came up to us; among the reft, Thornton and lady Woodville, who on perceiving blood upon my cheek, fainted. — She might have fallen to the earth, for me. —
I was insenfible to all the world! Thornton luckily caught her in his arms, and conveyed her to her chariot!
Notwithstanding all the applications that were used, the marchioness Seemed irrecoverable, and my despair is not to be expressed. A gentleman that was present, opened a vein in her arm. She then lifted up her languid eyes, and looking round her, closed them quick again, and tvhifpered, as she lay upon my bosom, “I die, “my lord; but'ought not to repine, since I ex“ “within your arms.”
A CRIMSON blush Succeeded to her paleness, and a vast shower of tears Soon followed. I know not what reply I made, but I have reason to fuppose it must have been expressive of the complicated passions which affected me. I carried her in my arms, to lady winterton’s coach, and conveyed her in that manner to your sifter’s.
We had all the assistance this place could afford. My Spirits are So extremely harassed, that I cannot write more, than just to give you the satis fastion to know that she is not in danger — would I could Say as much.
Adieu, till next post.
Woodville.
*
L E T
\
12
T
LETTER XLI
Lord Woodville to Lord Seymour,
AS soon as the fair invalid was laid onths bed, and the medical tribe who werefum< moned from all quarters had performed their usual evolutions, of pulfe feeling, profound looks, and long prescriptions, I knelt by her bed lide, and tenderly inquired her health? She told me, that though much hurt, she did believe, theotlj incurable wound she had received, was given by herself, in the weak confession she had made, when she thought her situation had placed her beyond the necessity of longer disguising the tender Sentiments, she felt for me. She would give worlds, to recall what she had Said; but, as Ihe knew that was impossible, beggedi would not despise her, or meanly think her capable of adelign, to rival lady Woodville; and that the moment she was Sufficiently recovered, she should fly me, and England for ever.
Think of my situation, Seymour! andfor give my weakness, while I tell you I poured foitli all the fondness long concealed, even from mj self, within my labouring bosom, and Swore, with too much truth, I never had, one moment ceased to love her. She sighed and wept; I kissed her lily hand, and bathed it with her tears.
How much longer we should have continued in this situation, I know not, had I not been roused by a message from lady Woodville, to inquire the marchioness’s health, and an excuse for not making the inquiry in person, on account of her own indisposstion. I ssarted, Seymour — and recollected, that I had a wife.
I fleff
  13
I FLEW home instantly; found Emily had been blooded, and put to bed. — I rejoiced at being able to avoid the sight of that amiable woman; Said I would not disturb her, by going into her chamber, and ordered another bed to be got ready for me, against night.
Conscious guilt will make a coward of the bravest man. I could not bear my own thoughts.
— I dreaded being alone. I went to the coffeehouse, to drown reflection in noise and nonsenfe.
The conversation turned entirely on the accident that had befallen the marchioness, and I replied with the utmost complacency, to every trifling ■question that was alked, because it related to her.
I SOON grew weary of this Scene. I walked out, and found my steps insensibly straying towards the marchioness. — By chance I met Thornton, who with more liveliness in his looks than ■ * 1 have Seen for a long time, told me lady Woodville was much better, and would be glad to See me; that she had expressed Some uneasiness, at their not Suffering me to go into her chamber,, when I called at home, though she was then asleep.
I WENT directly back with him, and Saw my Emily; she looked pale, and dispirited, questioned me with great tenderness about the marchioness, and Said the fright she had Suffered, on her account, joined to her apprehension of my having received Some hurt, had quite overpowered her; but she would endeavour to become a stouter soldier. Sweet gentleness! how thy Soft looks upbraid me!
I determined not to go to the marchioness, that night, but Sent to know hew she did, and Sat down to write my last letter to you. In that, and this, arc contained only the transactions of
one
*
i
1
14
one fatal day. — Where my narrative will end, I know not! but the only relief that is, at present left me, is the pouring out my heart to you, — I again implore you to pity its weakness, and pardon its follies.
your’s ever.
Woo D VILLE.
W TIT 3t W t»r Tlf t»f W W W Tjp tsar tit't»r w
LETTER XLII
Lord Woodville to Lori Seymour.
TOO cruel Seymour! how am I to interpret
such an obstinate Silence? am I So far funl in your esteem, that you disdain even to hold converse, or correspondence with me? Now was the time, to have exerted all your friendship, and stopped me on the very verge of ruin. — But you disclaim the painful office of counselling an incorrigible. self willed man; and I now triurapli in your cold neglect. Left to myself in fucha critical juncture, I have a higher pride, in being able, from my own conduct, to claim your friendship and esteem, than I could have felt, had! acted conformably to your prudent advice, and declined the meeting of my most dangerous foe, The morning after the date of my last, I was Surprised to find lady Woodville in the diningroom, dressed, and waiting breakfast for me, when I came downstairs, between seven and
eight o’clock. -- 1 thought stie looked paler,
and more delicate, than I had ever seen her, with an air of resignation impressed upon her countenance, which, added to its natural sweetness, had rendered her one of the most interesting objects, I had ever beheld. The tenderness with
which
I
  15
which I en<|uired her health. Seemed to animate s her languid frame, and her eyes quickly recovered their native lustre.
After breakfast, she proposed accompanying me to See the marchioness, I was embarrassed beyond measure; but knew not how to prevent; her doing, what appeared to be so proper. Just then, Thornton luckily came into the room, which jfforded me a moment to recollect myself. I told her I thought it would be better to send first, to inquire how the marchioness had rested, and whether she was yet able to receive our vistts?
Emily Seemed to blush at her want of consideration, and readily assented to my proposal.
Williams was dispatched with a card, and soon returned with a verbal answer, that the marchioness was much better, and would be glad to see us. I hoped she would have had address enough, to have Saved me from the embarrassment, which Such an interview must give me.
But there was now no retreating; and Emily and I got into the chariot together.
When we were shown into the marchionefs^s apartment, she was lying on a couch, in the most elegant dishabille. — What a Subject for an Apelles, Seymour! It was with difficulty I could re llrain myself from expressing the transports that I felt. She rose to receive lady Woodville, with such an^air of graceful dignity, as queens might
gladly learn. I saw that Emily blushed, and -- -- -- --
looked confused, at her amazing ruperiority, but was relieved by the entrance of your stster, lady Sandford.
The marchionefs’s behaviour towards me, was remarkably cold, and distant; and I thought she overacted her part so much, that any other woman in the world, but Emily must have perceived fontething extraordinary, in the change
I of
i6
of her manner; but happily, lady Woodville'n a stranger to suspicion.
‘ y o u may Suppose our vistt was not a vcrj long one, yet it appeared to me insufferably tedious; and I thought myself more obliged to Emily, when she rose to go away, than ever I had been to any one in my life. I had the happiness to hear that the marchioness had received no hurt from her fall, that could be of anv ill consequence; the blood that appeared, n from.a slight contusion in her nose.
Ransford came to wait on her, whilewt were there; and as he handed my wife to h carriage, and I was quitting the room, the mar' lioness, with the utmost fierii, though in alow voice. Said, lord Woodville, return instantly, or never 1
Th; E manner with which she pronouncei these words, astonished and confounded me. 1 then saw.that her behaviour towards me was the effect of resentment, mot art; — yet how had 1 offended,, how forfeited rhat tenderness which Ihe expressed for me the day before? Inexplicable creature! mysterious woman! of all riddles, the hardest to be expounded by the boasted wih domof thy vassal, man 1
I BOWED, and withdrew, in the utmofta maxement at her conduct; and by vainly endeavouring to account for it, I fell into fucha
L profound reverie, that I did not even perceive
^' the motion of the carriage till it stopped at out lodgings.
I then felt myself ashamed at not having taken the least notice of Emily during our little journey; and by way of saying Something, toll her I had been constdering whether we might no Set out for London the next day, if it was agree
able to her. She, Smiling, Said my will wa
i ',, hers
II
i
I.
II
»
  17
hers; and though quite unprepared for Such an expedition, as she did not know I purposed going so soon, she would be ready at what hour I pleased.
I KNEW not what I Said, when I talked of London, and had not the least: intention of carrying her there; but my blunder was lucky, as it gave me an opportunity of paying a well de ferved compliment to her complacency, and con • and also of paving the way to my going without her, if the Sovereign arbitress of my fate, should command me to attend her. I likewise appeared to have the merit of facri fidng my own inclination to hers, by readily consenting to her returning to Woodfort.
Upon these terms we parted, and I Set out, with allow pace, and a disturbed mind, to mea __ back the ground I had just passed. During ray walk, I reflected upon the disagreeable neces fity I had laid myself under, of acting the hypocrite, with a woman v/hose amiable qualities compelled me to esteem her, and whose personal charms fully entitled her to the fondest, affection of an unengaged heart. Deceit cannot dwell long with honour; aud I determined either to sacrifice my passion to my virtue, or at once to triumph over character, honour, and every aether consideration in life, and act the villain boldly.
almost distracted with the struggles of my mind, 1 entered the marchioness’s apartment. I found her lying on a couch, with a handkerchief close to her eyes, which she removed, upon, my entrance, and showed her lovely face, all bathed in tears. I advanced with precipitation, and would have kissed her hand, but she withdrew it from me, with Such an air of coldness and difeiain, as almost petrified me: then rising Wilkly, Said, is your wife with you?
i8
I G®.AV£LY answered, no. She then burll into a violent passion of tears, and exclaitnd, Ah, Woodville! after what had passed between us but a few short hours ago, how could you ufemc thus! How did you dare to rnsult me with the prefetjce of that object, whose hgal claim t * affection, renckrs/naine crirainal?
I WAS so much alarmed and canfoundeid, al the vehemence of her voice, ajnd manner, that! knew not what answer to matke, «tet tom her it was lady Woodville who had proposed our coming together, and that I new not how to avoid attending her, without running the hazard CL giving her offence.
What, then you fear as wem as‘love her, ant you avow it to my face! — — I would not willing. J Ty, madarn* inflict unnecessary wounds, upon thf
victim I have sacrificed to you, nor add brutalit)
to perfidy. -- -- -- Her colour rose to crimlon.
f So then, my lord you vainly hope to keep :
I flame alive in two Such heart's as mine and iadj
I woodville’s! toxovtenlupk, and play our pat
I lions off, against each other, for your Iportl
i Amazing vanity! But know it will not do, m
lord; her soft, insipid nature might perbap:! Submit to be the loved Sultana of the day, thet
yield her place to me, or any other, and mean!); take it back again, from your caprice; but 1
II will reign alone, or elle deffile that traniitor)
^ toy, the empire of your heart.
You may Tern ember, madam, there was; time, when more than you now alk, or I car give, my hand and heart were offered at yeu I feet; you then disdained to accept them; the]
I are no longer free. For doting on you, as I do
I ' with all the fervour of distracted passion, I caif
i jiot be insensible to the merits of unoffending
innocence
■1 •
[: i
S:
  if
nnocence, and love; nor cease one hour, to eel the anguish of remorse, for having injured
ady Woodville.
¥
If the frankness of this confession, madam, hold exclude me for ever from your love, I nave the consolation to know that it must: insure lie your esteem— — Some claim to the atter, I should be unworthy of the former. But if under these unhappy circumstances, you still : an condescend to feel that passion, which you have profess, let me upon ray knees, conjure you to tell me how I may preserve my honour, without forfeiting what is as dear to rae, your love.
I HAD knelt at her feet, during the latter part of this discourse. — Her eyes had streamed. —
I do not blush to own that mine were not quite dry. She remained filent for Some minutes, and when I pressed her to Speak, she replied with a determined voice and manner: There is no alternative, my lord; you must fly with me, or never See me more.
I HAD dreaded Such a proposal, yet could farce believe she would make it, and with the utmost agitation cried out. Impossible! But before I could utter another Syllable she laid her kind upon my lips, and Said, I command you silence— — must not, shall not answer me. I know you are to quit this place immediately : vvould I had never seen it. But as you are now to determine the Sat of one, whose love for you has made her leap the bounds prescribed to her weak sex,, do not reply rashly! but take the „ last moment that can be allowed, before you pronounce the doom of a fond wretch, who has placed more than her life — her happiness or misery— — your power.
I ROSE and bowed, totally unable to Speak
13 or
20
or even to think, from the confusion of my ideas. She took advantage of my Silence to tell me she would not receive any letter upon this fuhjefl, from me, but that she expected to see rae at I twelve o’clock next day; and Smiling added,
I lest: you should forget, I will present you with a
little monitor, which will remind you of your
'absent friend.
1
She then gave me her picture, which lhad a thousand times in our first acquaintance Solicited in vain. I kissed it with trhnsport. Seehert, said she, and drew a miniature of me, which! had formerly given her, out of her pocket; ani now take care that you preserve my image, as carefully as I have done yours.
Then looking at her watch, you must leave, sne; it is near lady sandford’s dining hour, and lmust dress. How stowly will the miserable moments creep, till we tvv^o meet again! But I shall defy time, after that, as it can neither add j to, or diminish from the felicity or anguish
which must then irrevocably be my portion.
I ENTREATED her to Spare me on that subject, as she would not permit me to reply. Yoa must withdraw, then, immediately, my lord, 1 for I can neither think, or Speak, on any other
theme. She permitted me to kiss her band be i fore I left her; and Seemed to have conquered
all those violent passions, which possessed her at j, my approach. I confess I quitted her, with infinite
reluctance; and So I now must you.
Woodville.
I '
; J
I •
■ ■!
•
!, I
; \
., t
i \
0;
I L E T
i'‘!!
••I 1
• U
*
: d l
  21
LETTER XLIL
ford Woodville to' lcrj seymou pcc
4
I
PARTED from the marchioness in a’ more I irresolute and’confused state of mind, than i had ever before experienced,. L well' knew that all the colour f my future fate, - depended on the resolution I was compelled to make within a few short hours. I found it absolytely impossible to determine on anything, from a conscioufnefs of the importance of’my final determination.'
Never, Sure, had reason and passion a Severer lliife.. One moment, I resolved to Sacrifice everything to love to fly with my adored isabella, into Some distant country, “and live in “shades with her, and love alone.” The next instant, the image of the gentle Emily obtruded kfelf upon my imagination, in her present Situ' ationpale, and dying. Methonght I beard her last Soft sigh express my name; I felt mysels il murderer, and started at my shadow.
In this distracted state. I had wandered a
0
considerable way in she fields, and sav/night coming on apace, without power or inclinaticn to think of returning to York, when I heard the sound of a horse, galloping towards me. ^ The man who rode him called to me, to direct: him the nearest way to the town, - and also if L could inform him where lord Woodville lived.
The Sound of my own name Surprised me, andlinqiiired his business— — fellow quickly knew me; he instantly alighted, and told me he uas a Servant of Sir Harry ransford’s, and had been Sent express, to let his young master kno\y that lady Ransford had eloped, two days stfore, with captain Barnard; and that it vas
14 Supposed
-
I Supposed they were gone either to Francem
Ireland. He added that the poor old knightwji almost distracted, for the loss of his lady, II wanted his Son to pursue the ravisher.
The Servant pressed me to mount his horst, and expressed his umple astonishment at ray beint by myself in Such a lonesome place at that hour, I refilled his offer, and we walked on together, It Was near eight o’clock when I got home; anil as it was the last night of the races, I did Suppose
Emily was gone to the ball — “— but I founts her alone.
I THOUGHT she looked as if she had been in tears, though her eyes Sparkled when she favi me. This little circumstance had its full weight and the unaffected joy she showed at my return without Seeming to be alarmed at my absence r when contrasted with the violence of temper
which the marchioness had discovered inthi morning, sofar turned the Scale, as to determin
S C ^ ^
I me to remain a stave to the obligations I owe t
my wife, and the world; and though I am pei Suaded that I shall never be able to extrastti
I 1 I
j arrow from my wounded heart, I will suffer:
Jj to rankle there in silence, and endeavour to di
rive fortitude Sufficient to bear the anguiil from the noble consideration of having facrificf, my pleasure — I must not style it happiness— — '
: my duty. — What would my stiend have more?
My mind grew much calmer, aster these r flections. — in order to prevent my relaplingi i II locked up the marchionefs’s picture in rny wri
C ing box, and threw the key into the fire, th
II it might not be in my power to gaze away ir
Ij reason, for that night at least.
|; i Emily was much Surprised, at the accou
Il • of lady Ransford, and captain Barnard — n
11 ©wn innocence keeps her a child. — She btgg
il I wou
1
 . 2j
I would not mention the story before lady Harriet. — I knew there had been an attachment between the captain and her, but thought it long Since over — yet why should I imagine that time could conquer love? O! never, never, Seymour!
Lady Woodville and I Supped, tete i tete; the young folks, as she calls them, though they are all older than herself, staid late at the ball. — I was impatient for ransford’s return, and had sent to the assenobly room, to look for him, but he was not there. — I ordered everything to be in readiness for his Setting out immediately on his filial errand.
When the ladies and Thornton came in, I retired to my chamber to wait for Ransford. Ky frequently revolving my unhappy Situation in my mind, I began to confider it in a new light; which at once encreased my misery, and confirmed me in the justness of the resolution, I had before taken, of bearing it in silence. Upon strict examination, I found I was the only culpable person of the three; and therefore: ought to be the only Sufferer.
Wretch that I was, I had deceived myself;; in consequence of that error, had imposed upon another!. How vain to imagine that the marchioness’s cruel treatment of my love, her preferring age, and infirmity to me, on account of Superior rank and riches, had Supplied m with arms Sufficient to vindicate my freedom, and break her tyrannic chains. O Seymour I they are twined about my heart, and nought, I fear, but death, can loose them!
It was near three o’clock, when Ransford came in; he Seemed in very high Spirits — when I told him of lady ransford’s ill conduct, he said he was not in the least Surprised; he had
I 5 long
: ^4 ira u si. Lj ln. i II l^iollvilbs,
known that his stepdame only waited for a gi lant, who had Spirit enough to engage in fuclu frolic with her; and he thought his father hast fair riddance.
I WAS Surprised to hear him treat the affair So lightly, as 1 know him to' be a man of nice ' honour. 1 then alked him, whether he intended
going immediately to his father? he answerel no; Said he was engaged in a pursuit of the utmost: consequence, which he could not quit, ard that he did not believe he should See Ransford Hall for sometime.
I TOLD him I thought his father would have reason to resent his neglect, and pressed him to wait upon him, though but for one day. He persisted in his resolution, and we parted. 1 think it odd, that Ransford did not communicate his motives for acting in this manner, tome; but what have I to do with other people’s affairs! my poor tortured mind is Sufficiently encumbered with its own.
I THINK I need not tell you that I pasted a steepless night. — At breakfast, I told Emily that f I should be ready to Set out with her for Wood
1 fort, after dinner if she pleased. She Seemed
!■ delighted, and the carriage was ordered,, at half
, an hour after four. — I entreated Sit James Thornton
to return with us, for a few days he made i a thousand excuses;; at length complied, at
i lady woodville’s request,
I WAS now to enter upon the most arduous task of my whole life; that of taking an evsr lasting leave of the woman whom 1 doted on I — and in this highest act of self-denial, I mud
I appear to her, a volunteer! I am grieved that
1| Brutus should have said“ “was but a
i; name.” O let me bend before her .awful Ihi'inct
and
\
'4
I
^ ’ t
  25
and pay my grateful vows, for the kind aid shu lent me, in that hour of trial I
I ENDEAVOURED to assume an air of calmness
on my entering the marchioness’s apartment.
She fixed her eyes, her piercing eyes, in steadfast gaze upon me, as if to read my soul. A minute passed in Silence. I found she would not [peak, and hardly Seemed to breathe. You See before you, madam, an unhappy man, who d?.res not purchase transport with remorse; and therefore, turns felf banishedi from her sight,, whom most his soul adores!
She quick exclaimed, is it possible! and am ’
I then despised, neglected — for a wife! Cold, and unloving Woodville! Why did you ever feign a passion for me? Why strive to make me think it still Subfisted in your frozen heart? You cannot bear remorse!! man! should not Shave shared it with you? Is then my fame less dear than yours? and did I hefitateone moment to sacrifice that, and myself both, to you?
Gbfcurity and infamy were not bars to me, whilst you, infirm of mind, desert the woman you • pretend to love, for fear your wife should cry.
True, madam, I replied,.. I would not give her cause to weep, for worlds — nay what is more, - ^
for you [ You have acknowledged too, that f the step your kindness prompted you to take, must ^ be attended with Severe regret also, on your own part. What should i feel then, from render -- ing you unhappy! I have not fortitude to brave ■ such two fold agony,
0! you have half that guilt to answer for already. — But my pride revolt at my own meanness. Leave me,, Sir— — me, for ever, Woodville! I shall'obey you, madam, but before we part, for ever. Suffer me, at least, to Satisfy your • [i pride,, by declaring that no man ever loved,
with..

with fonder passion than I now feel for you — ho far time and absence may be able to conquer it, I know not; but should they fail of their ufri effects, it is impossible that I should bear it long; and now, my Isabella, one last embrace — may angels guard you!
I RUSHED out of the house, like a distracted man, but had not walked a quarter of a mile, before the rectitude of my conduct towards this too lovely woman, began by flattering my pride, to qualify my passion; and I returned home, in a more rational state of mind than I have knowb for Some time.
Rejoice with me, my friend; the conflid’!
'' past I and be just enough to acknowledge my triumph
more complete, than the much boasted one of Scipio. He only resigned an alienatedheart while I forego afelf devoied vidum!
I AM, this moment, going to step into th coach for Woodfort, where I shall impatientl) long to See you. But, O write Soon, to strengthen and applaud, my growing virtue.
your’s.
I Woodville
‘S
. *
\,
■; i. ■
I t V rr /v>i^v
K
t •
»
LETTER XLIV
: lr
oi
Dr Seymour to Lor Wo OD VILLE.
■||.. • N: :,.

, M
t:
: ^ Hot wells
* j ». » •
Believe me, Woodviiie, th ere is not another
event within the power of fortum; j which could now give me half the joy that
1 received stem your last letter. I do congratulat
h my noble stiend, myself, and all the world, o
that heroic virtue, which has enabled you to pal
ih
1 •:
. H
..; i,
I
f L
THE D Enie A i E Ulb 1 KE SS. 2^7
the ordeal sire, unsullied and unhurt. Rather let me Say, that like the Amianthus *, you have gained new whiteness, from the flames, and shine with brighter lustre, than even unblemished innocence can boast.
I FIND my style, perhaps, too much elevated, by my Sentiments, but Sudden transitions must have strong effects. I had Scarce a hope of your escaping the Snare that was laid for you, and mourned your fall from honour, with infinitely more regret, than I should have done your death.
Had the latter happened, my grief would have been Selfish; but in the other case, I felt for those pangs which you must have inevitably Suffered; and for the miseries, which your crimes must have inflicted, upon your amiable, and innocent wife.
But I do not wish again to recall this gloomy prospect to your view; you may now, and ought to look forward, to a long train of happiness; for Surely, if Such a thing is to be found on earth, it must arise from a conscioufnefs, of having acted rightly. Who then can be better entitled to it than yourself?
As I have found some little benefit from these waters, I propose staying here. Some time longer — I shall then have Some affairs of consequence to my fortune, which I have too long neglected, to Settle in London. So that I cannot hope to see you, at Woodfort, in less than two months.
I IN treat to hear from you, often, but must insist upon your not mentioning the Subject of our late correspondence; forget it, Woodville, and k happy.
I our s, ever,
Seymour.
: |;
V
* The Afbejlos or, Salamanders wooj.
Note, j
r
, I
!; ■
, 1
■?
2b THE IJELIU ATE dlstkesh.
Note, The journal, promised by lady Wooct ville to lady Straffon, is purposely omitted, as
I it contains nothing more, than an account of
i some of those particulars, that have been alrea
'dy mentioned, which, happened during the week
i they (laid at York races.
i The Editor.
i
I
I *
[
I
II LETTER XLV
II
I lizjy Straffon to Woodville.
I FLATTER myself that this letter will reach Woodfort Soon after your arrival there, y and that it will find my dear Emily r^oicing in
j: the calm delights of domestic happineff, after
I the stene of hurry and dissipation she has sh lately
1; ^ gone through.
I GIVE you credit for the lovely picture you I have drawn of the marchioness, and also for the
f; tender concern you express for the accident that
II befol her — but I am sorry your nerves were foi
weak as to occasion your, fainting,
p I ALLOW much for your preshnt sttuationj
I but do not let that, or anything, elsh, my dear
I Sister, liisser you to indulge,, in an habitual low?
ijl refs of Spirits. There is an air of languid dif
I content, - runs through the latter pact of the little
|: journal, you were so good to Send me, that
I alarms me much — yet I; am certain you endear
il voured to conceal your Sentiments, even from
me; and I approve your caution, as lam peril shaded, that by Speaking, or writing on any fub
i - ject that affects us, we strengthen our own feel jij ings of it; and half the Simple girls, who are
a now pining for love by murmuring rivulets, or
T m
m
M ■

1
THE o nnic; Ai n ois i kb, ss. _ 29
in (hady groves, would forget the dear objects of their passion, if they had not a female confidant as Silly as themselves, to whom they daily recount the fancied charms of their Adonis, and litter vows of everlasting constancy.
But do not now, my dear Emily, so perversely misunderstand me, as to suppose that I would wish you to conceal anything that dis ^, tresses you from me, or that I should desire you to let Sorrow prey in silence on your heart, merely to Save mine the pain of Suffering with you. No, I conjure you to Speak freely to me, and if I cannot cure, I will at least Sooth your anxiety, if real, and endeavour to laugh you out of it, if imaginary.,
We have had a very agreeable visitor for these
ten days past at Straffon hill -- -- -- lord Mount
Willis. — He lived abroad, chiefly in Italy these ten years; yet is not infected with foreign fopperies, and can relish both the food and manners of his native country. Sir John met him last, at Paris, from whence he is but just returned. '
He tells us, that Sir James Miller, and his mra fpofa, are universally ridiculous. Her lady
Ship affects all the lively gallantry, d’unedame
fraii9oise, but is unfortunately encumbered with
ail the clumsy aukwarknefs of a vulgar Englishwoman. Sir James plays deep, and has lost considerably. Lucy Seems hurt at the latter part of this account. The goodness of her heart is inexhaustible.
The approach of a certain desirable event, i
with that of winter, will, I hope, soon afford me the pleasure of embracing my dear Emily and her lord. We shall return to London in i
ten or twelve days. Have you made any disco |
in the terra incognita of Sir James Thorn,,
heart? Does Fanny Weston sigh in concert
with
I
^ ' t
•. • • t
I »
♦ *
* t
-• ^ LI
'I
30
with the ieolian lyre? or have the equinoctial blasts so chilled her flame, that she prefers a warm room and cheerful company, to lonely tne> ditalion and Soft Sounds?
How does lady Harriet bear this Second instance of captain barnard’s perfidy? and how does the poor old gouty knight Support the vulgarly called loss of his detestable wife? I fiiiil myself in a very impertinent mood; and thatl may not alk more questions in one letter than you maybe inclined to answer in two, Khali for the present, bid you adieu.
F. Straffon.
a.
LETTER XLVI
I
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
S
i
1
Ye S, my dear Fanny, I am now, thank heaven. Safely ajrived at Woodfort — would 1 had never left it! I think even the place, and everything in it, is altered, during a short ah fence of twelve days. The trees have lost their verdure, and the birds cease to fing. But though the autumnal season may have produced these .effects, I begin to fear there is a greater change in me^tban in any of the objects thar Surround me.
Yet ami in the Spring of life, not ripened even to Summer; while like a blasted flower 1 shrink and fade. Say, Fanny, why is this? The animal and vegetable world bloom in their
proper season, youth -- -- -- while amongst those
whom we call rational, grief steals the roses L from the. downy cheek, and flowing tears oft dim
the brilliant eye. Lord Seymcur is unhappy j
^j'bornto&
II ^
L
:
  31
Thornton Sighs; and my loved lord. Seems wretched, — need I go on, and close the climax, with my breaking heart.
Chide me, or chide me not, the secret’s out; lam undone, my stster! in vain lord Woodville drives, beneath the masque of tenderness, to act a part, which he no longer feels; the piercing eyes of love detect his coldness— — kind attention is all lost on me, his stifled Sighs belie his [ace and tongue, and whisper what he fussert when he smiles.
0, Fanny! tell me how I have offended him! how lost that heart, which formed myut I
fnoft bliss! let me blot out that passage, with my ears; it cannot it must not be. — I will not live, f I have lost his love. Why are you not here,
0 flatter me — to tell me that my fears are ground
efs, and that be Sighs from habit, or from |
chance? \
Ah, no! stnce he whom I adore, has failed |
to blind me, I cannot, if I would be now deceiv
ti Yet if I have erred, why does he not Speak II
)ut, and tell me I have done wrong? Believe me, |
fanny, I have tried my heart, examined every lidden thought that’s there, and cannot find out me that should offend him. r
b
Are all men thus inconstant? I was too young II
0 mark Sir john’s behaviour, when you were I
narried first. A shdden ray of hope, now dawns |
ipon me; perhaps the great exertion of my i
ord’s Spirits, while we remained at York, may S
lave occastoned a proportionate degree of lan il:
; uor — perhaps he may again recover his natural 'I
: hearfulnels, and your poor Emily may again be ||
lappy -- -- perhaps — - — I will strive to hope the jell.
il
• I’
I HAVE no thoughts of going to London — I |
ilways purposed lying in at Woodfort — I had ll
flattered : L
! ij 1
0
32
flattered myself.. would be with me, at that hour of trial; but I do not now expect it i know Sir John would not consent to your running the hazard of travelling, in your present Situation, as it has formerly been of ill consequence to you, I therefore release my dear Fanny, and desire she may not faster the least anxiety on my account.
I FIND myself much mere at ease, „ than when I began this letter, and I must affirm,, though in contradiction to younopinion, that pouring forth our distresses, in the bosom of a friend, affords, at least, a temporary relief to the afflicted. lam not able to write more at present, but will answer
all your queries by next post
Till then,
adieu,
E. Woodville
i
! LETTER XLVIL
«
* I
[: Woodville to Lady Straffon.
ri

!:
S My dear Fanny,,
THERE never Sure was Such a man as lor
Woodville — he is not only determined t
I preserve my affection, but to rob me of the pot
I conshlation, of complaining that I no longs
I ppssels his. In Spite of all the pains I have take
I to conceal the anguish of my heart, he has ce:
tainly perceived it, and by the most tender ar I interesting conversation, had well nigh led n
I into a confession,, of my being unhappy.
I Thank heaven,. I stopped just short of th
I ' — had I avowed it, he doubtless would ha'
I asked the cause, and artfully have drawn me i
■if
11'
/
  33
it least, tacitly to reproach his conduct.' O northeast /er! never, Fanny, can I be capable of that in
lifcretion.
But were I weak, or mean enough, to do it, have now no reason for complaint — his tender less, politeness, and attention, are unabated.
'Jo other person, but myself could possibly per: eivc the smallest alteration in his conduct; and begin to hope, that my apprehensions have lad no other foundation, than an extremity of lelicacy, bordering upon weakness in my elf. A thousand, nay ten thousand women, night, and would be happy, with Such an arria isle and tender husband, nor has your Emily a dih ungratified, but that of feeing her dear lord [uite happy.
I AM Sorry to tell you that Sir James thorn on leaves us tomorrow;; is to Set out immedi tely on the grand tour. My Lord has in vain ndeavoured to find out the shurce of his melan holy; we can discover nothing but that he is un lappy, which I am sincerely Sorry for, as he tally is the most agreeable accomplished young nan, I ever was acquainted with.
Lady Harriet affects to appear shankful for ler escape from captain Bernard; but finds his lopement a cause for shrrow, on his lady’s ac I;
ount. Sir Harry is sh much enraged, at his ^
on’s neglect of him, that he begins to be recon I
iled to his wife’s conduct, and (peaks of him, nth more acrimony, than of her. Indeed, I hink Mr. Ransford highly to blame, for reshfing;!
B attend his father, upon Such an occasion.
Fanny Weston a la mart, at Sir James fhornton’s quitting us. That love is the cause f her mourning, I well know, but I begin now '
3 apprehend that Sir James, and not lord Seymour, is the object of her passion. She has a
much I
. ' I ’
. • .1' : • -, f
^4
% >
much better chance in this cafe, than the other, for I am persuaded if Thornton knew of heral section for him he would endeavour to make ha happy.
Alas! if he loves another, how impossible! I fancy he is enamoured of one of the miss Wi. thers’s. — His fortune and family are Such, thatl do not believe he would be rejected; yet I coiill not wish him success for poor Fanny Wefton’)
sake.
Men more easily triumph over an unhappt passion, than women. Dissipation, change ol place, and objects all contribute to their cure; while perhaps the poor stghing fair one is absolutely confined to the Same Spot, where She firi beheld her charmer, and where every object rc' minds her, that here he sat, walked, or talked.
I AM persuaded there is a great deal moreii these local memento’s than lovers are willing ti allow. I therefore shall not oppose Fanny Wei ton’s going to London, if she should again prc pose it.
Sir William and lady lawson are to dine wit us this day. — I will try to muster all my fpiri to receive her. I would not, for the work make her unhappy, by giving her the least rooi! to suspect that I am So.
Adieu, my dearest Fanny; to you, andyc only, I can, without blushing, discover ail tl weakness of a heart, that truly, and sincere loves you.
E. WOODVILL
P. S. I have, this moment, received a meffa I from my lord, to let me know that he shall fpfi
LI three or four days, in hunting, with Sir Wilba
‘ atkinson. I am glad of anything that can amt
him.
L
LI ' ■
«
i!'

LETTER XLVIII
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
r CANNOT express how much my dear Emi i ly’s last letters have affected and distressed ne. ryour being unhappy is certainly fofficient; ff render me So; and what adds to my concern,
, s, my being absolutely incapable of affording ou the .least consolation, as I am utterly ignorant f the real eause of your affliction. I sometimes think, that it is only a phantom, conjured Dp by your too delicate apprehensions; and is,
of course, merely imaginary. at other times,
the natural inconstancy of men alarms me with an idea of lord woodville’s having met, at York, orelfewhere. Some o'ject, that may, for a time, divide his heart with you.
Observe, my dearest Emily, that this Is mere conjecture; — but we must take certain positions for granted before we can reason upon anything. Now do not start, when I tell you, I had much rather your uneasinels should arise from the latter source, than the former; — though I should consider, even a trans.tory alienation of his affection, as a misfortune.
Let us now Suppose this to be the cafe, and then Sec how far you have reason to'be distressed byfuch an incident. The passions of the human mind, are, I fear, as little under our command, «5 the motions of our pulse— — have therefore just as much reason to resent your hus band’s becoming enamoured of another person, as you would have to be offended at his having a fever.
But if, in consequence of that delirium, he lltould Sacrifice your peace to the gratification of
his
I
36
his passions, by an open and avowed purfuitol
the beloved object; or otherwise render you unhappy,
by unkindness, or neglect, you raiglit then have Some cause to complain; but if hebt unfortunate enough to feel an unwarrantablepa(. fion, and keeps that feeling all his own, his mj. rlt rises above humanity, and he ought to become almost an object of adoration to you.
H AS he not fled from this alluring charmerl Has he not hid his passion from the world, nor wounded even your pride? Is not his tenderness and kind attention still unremitted towards you! Indeed, my Emily, allowing these to be matters of fact, you owe him more than you can ever pay. Confider what his regard to you mull be, that can prevail on him to Sacrifice his paffioo, to your peace?
Then do not, I implore you, my dear child, by even the least appearance of distress, aggravate his, but be assured, that from a heart, where honour is the ruling principle, you have everything to hope, and that the transitory gloom which now affects him, will be Succeeded by the brightest triumph; and that his reason and hi virtue will both join in Securing his affection tc you, upon a more Solid, and permanent foundation, than it could ever have been, if this acev dent had not happened.
I HAVE gladly laid hold on what you will think the greatest evil, lord woodville’s havitij conceived an involuntary passion. But formidable as that may appear to you, believe me, Emily it is of little consequence, compared to both what he and you must Suffer, Should there b found no real cause for your distress. A mini So unhappily turned, as yours would then appea to be, must be incapable of receiving or adiw
nifterin
^ C :
%
‘
! i i
  37
lillering content. I am shocked at the horrid dea, and will not dwell upon it longer.
As I kept your letters in a particular drawer of ny deflt, in looking for your last; but one, chance )resented 'me with your first letter from wood fort, where you Set out a 'strenuous advocate for ihe existence of terrestrial felicity. Fallacious as [he .opinion may be, L am truly Sorry you have had any reason to alter your Sentiments; but let it, at least, console you, that if you are not an example of your own argument, there is no such thing as an exception to the general rule, that happiness is not, nor ever will be, the lot of human nature, till perfection becomes inherent to it.
The Subjects of this letter, have Sunk my spirits so much, that I fear I shall rather increase, than, lessen your depression, if I pursue them farther. I will, therefore, change to one that ought to give me pleasure, and will, I hope, afford you some.
Lord Mount Willis, thoroughly apprized of cur dear lucy’s former attachment to Sir James Miller, has declared a passion for her, in the most polite and elegant terms, that can be imagined.
Sensibility, he Says, is, with him, the highest mark of virtue; and a heart, that could feel what hers has Suffered, for an unworthy object, mud be capable of the highest tenderness for one who can, at least, boast the merit of being Sensible of her charms.
A LITTLE false delicacy has, as yet, prevented hucy from declaring her Sentiments, in favour of this charming man, for Such, indeed, he is; though I can see she likes him full as well, and must necessarily approve him much more, than'
Ihe ever did Sir Tames Miller.
But
I i
38
But Lucy declared she would never marry, and that she would leave her fortune to my Emily. — I know this dwells on her mind, thought never did on mine; for I have as little faith, in the vows of disappointed love, as in the promifej of Successful ones. However, I both hope, and believe, that lord Mount Willis will triumph over her Scruples; and that I shall have the pleafureof feeing her the happy wife, of that very amiable man.
I AM Sorry you are to lose Sir James Thornton } but perhaps the want of his company, may induce lord Woodville to come to London; and I should rejoice at any cause that could produce that effect, for I cannot bear the thought of your lying in in the country.
Fanny Weston is not of a temper to break her heart for love; but I would, by all means, have her come to town. Her aunt, lady Weston, talks of going to Bath, next month, and if Fanny chooses to accompany her, I will answer fork, that that gay Scene of dissipation will soon conquer an hopeless passion, whether lord Seymour, or Sir Jarnes Thornton be the object.
We arrived in hill ftreet last Thursday; to morrowj Sir John is to place my little Edward, at Eton. The Cmple mamma will feel the loss of her dear playfellow, but the prudent mother will bless the memory of Henry the Sixth, who instituted that noble foundation.
The accounts we have received of Sir James Miller, are shocking. — He has been obliged to quit Paris, on account of his debts, and is retired into Some of the provinces. — His lady remains in the capital, living away upon credit, without character. I begin to pity the unhappy man.
Yo
  39
You will easily perceive that this letter has : en written at. different periods. The world •eaks in upon me. I am embarked in the stream, id must be hurried away by the current, with icks, straws, and a thousand other insignificant
lings., ' ^ *
Adieu, my dear Emily: I hope. Soon, very
ion, to See you for, if the mountains will not
me to Mahometf cf.
Straffon*
9
LETTER XLIX
Woodville to Lady Straffon.
*
AM sincerely Sorry for having given pain to my dear fanny’s gentle heart, as I cannot aj that her participation has alleviated my dif tefs, For giving tvie fullest Scope to the argu ments you have advanced, what do they prove, lut that your emily is unhappy; and that she (new too well before I You Set lord woodviile’s strits in the fairest light, cruel Fanny I Why : ouldyou not'fmd out Some fault in him, to make love him less?? it is impossible; he is, Whout disp'jte, the most amiable of mankind.
1 told you, in my last, that Sir James bornton was to leave Woodfort the day folding, which was Tuesday. On, Monday night Ktock a very polite leave of us all, and I Jough'jr appeared more cheerful than he had wn for forrie time past. When we were at
on tuesday, we were told Sir James ‘'dfet out at six o’clock; and immediately after, y lord’s Servant presented him with a letter — he speared to shevv Some emotion while he read it,
K and
40
and Soon withdrew to his closet. In less than half an hour, I received the following billet, with the aforesaid letter, inclosed.
Lo Lady Wo O d V i lle.
“I SHOULD be .unjust to my unhappy friend, should I conceal she noble and generous fentimenti he expresses for she most lovely and defervb of her sex;; I should still more highly injure the unbounded confidence of my dear Emilv, should I prevent her receiving the tribute due to that merit, which could inspire so truly delicate and Sincere a passion. I feel I know not what kind of a mixed fenfotion, for poor Thorntoni I both admire and pity him.
I would have delivered the inclosed withnij own hand, but feared my presence might distress my Emily, or, perhaps restrain the pity flowinj tear, which, I .confess, I think his sufferir|i
merit.
Adieu, my dearest Emily.
woodviut.
Sir Ja. Thornton to Lor Woodville,
“Indebted as lam for many obligations to your lordship, and Senfibly awake to the warme! fensations of gratitude, I could not think of quitting Woodfort, and England, for ever, without gratifying that friendly curiosity, which has soften sought the cause of the too visible. changf in my manners and appearance. Vou will perhaps be startled when I tell you, that this alteration is owing to yourself
** of every refinement, and elegancf of life, dissipated in my temper, and unatlacbd
lo any particular object, by your lordship'
fricnl
, 1
• 9
THEDELICATE DISTRESS. 41
*, 1
riendly invitation, I arrived at Woodshrt. --
leavens! what a Scene opened to ray astonished j
enfe I The Sudden effect of colours, to a person just eftored to fight, could not be felt more strongly, ivery object I beheld, was new, was amiable!
'et in this charming group, my lord, there fisre legrees of merit, and my then vacant heart lared to aspire at the most perfect of her Sex.
'*jeed I now tell you, that lady Woodville was ts choice 1 Yes, I avow it! Passion is involun ary; nor would I, if I could, be cured of nine.
“Yet witness for me, heaven, that fensual ind abandoned, as my past life has been, no gross dea ever mixed with hers, nor did her beaute 3us form ever raise one thought, that even she need blush to hear.
“Ido not my lord, affect to place this purity of Sentiment to the account of my own honour, or even my friendship for yoii. No, I con iefs myself indebted for it to her charming image, which ever appeared to my delighted sense, accompanied by that uncommon delicacy that graces every word and action of her Spot
Ids life. -- That, like a Sacred talisman, has
charmed the unruly passions of my mind,
ind made me only feel the pangs of hopeless n
love.
“Such a confession, as I have now made,
®iy lord, will, I flatter myself, entitle me both to your regard and pity. I go self banished from all that I esteem, and love; from you and ady Woodville. — It would be the height of im piuy to doubt of her happiness: and a long continuance of the blessings you now enjoy, is the iindeft wish that I can make for you. Felicity like yours, admits of no addition.
Kz When
I
42
‘‘ When you have read this, my lord, bum and forget it, but let not the unhappy writer be totally banished from your remembrance. Conceal my presumption, from the too lovely lady Woodville, lest: her resentment should be added to the miseries of,
“Your unhappy friend, “James Thornton.”
ofanny, I am distressed beyond measure, by these two letters! Why did this weak young man place his affections upon me? Why not bestow them, where they were likely, if rot certain, to meet with a return? It is said, that love is involuntarily; but I believe it is only foin very young or enervated minds. — If we will not struggle with our'passions, they will furdj overcome us; but they may certainly be weeded out, before they have taken too deep root.
I AM doubly distressed, by this unlucky attachment. — Poor Fanny Westoni her passion, for Sir James Thornton is but too visible;; — it not be cruel to attempt her cure, by letting her into this Secret? I know not how to ad. — Why did my lord reveal his foolish letter? or why did he not Sigh, in Secret, and conceal his ill placed love? O these audacious men! they dare do anything.
There is however, a degree of modesty, in his keeping the Secret, while he was here. I am convinced, if he had given the stighteft hint of it, I should have had detested him: even as it is, I feel myself offended, and in a very auk ward Situation. I shall certainly blush when I see my lord; and yet, why should I be humbled by another person’s folly? What husband but mine, would have put such a letter into the
hands of a wife? Such a mark of confidence
ought
  43
ought to raise me, in my own opinion, as it is an undoubted proof, that I stand high in his. pleasing reflection! dwell upon my mind, and banish every gloomy thought, that has obtruded there.
As lucy’s happiness is of infinite consequence to mine, I hope Soon to hear, that she is lady Mount Willis.
your’s, as usual
E. Woodville.
L E T T E R L
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
I Cannot see why my dear Emily should be hurt or offended at Sir James thornton’s innocent passion? had he dared to avow it, to you, it would have lost that title, and should have been considered as an insult; but let the poor youth sigh in peace, for a few months, and I will venture to promise, that he will get the bet ter of his folly. — Dying for love is a disorder, th.it comes not within our bills of mortaluy Not but I believe that a long and habitual fondness founded on reasonable hopes, will, when destroyed, destroy life, with it.
“O the Soft commerce! O the tender ties!
“close tv/isted with the fibres of the heart, “Which broken break t, and drain off the soul
“Of human joy, and make it pain to lived
But these are not the Sort of feelings, with which masters and misses, who fancy themselves
K 3 in
44
■ in love, are commonly affected; for though youth is the season, wiien we are most; capable of receiving inuprestions, it is also the season, when they are most easily erased. I think I might venture to pronounce, that there, are not five hundred couples in the cities of London and Westminster, who are married to their first love, and yet I, firmly believe there are, at least, ten times that number of happy pairs; if so, what becomes of the first passion?
To be Sure we now and then met withafool ish obstinate heart, that cherishes its own misery, and preserves the image of some worthless objeoi, to the last moment of its existence. Among this Simple class, I fear I shall be necessitated to rank rny sister Lucy; for though (he does not pretend to have the smallest objestion to lord Mount Willis, yet can she not be prevailed upon, to give a final yes.
His behaviour, on this occasion is truly noble; for though I believe that never man was more in • love, he has made it a point, both with Sir John and me, not to press Lucy, for her consent. I fear Sir John will grow angry, at last, and perhaps hurry her into a denial, which she will have reason to repent, all the days of her life.
However, she will now have Some time to recollect herself, as Sir John has this day, received a Summons to attend his aunt lady Aston, who is dying, and will probably leave Lucy a large legacy. — That poor idiot, Sir James Miller has mortgaged the last foot of his estate; but then he has got rid of his wife, — She died of a fever at Paris, twelve days ago. Upon the whole, 1 think fortune has been kinder to him than he deserved.
I AM much pleased with lord woodville’s behaviour in regard to the letter; but indeed, my
dear,
  4.5
ear, you treat these trifling matters much too; rioufly and i'esti should myself grow grave up m the Subject:, L shall hid you
Adieu.
F. strafforr. letter LI
Wo od VILLE to lajj' Straff oh. Dear Fanny, '
I HAVE not been well; theso three or four
days. — Lady lawson, ^ who is So good as to stay with me and all'the sage femmes about me, think that a certain event is near er than I' apprehended. My lordt foster Sister,, who has been brought to bed about five weeksy: is now in the house, and every thingis prepared for my accou\ ckment.
My lord’s tenderness Seems doubled on this ccasion. ^he Scarce ever leaves my apartment; lie reads to me with his eyes oftener fixed on my countenance, than the book, and Seems to watch every change in my look— — a wretch I have been, Fanny! to suspect this amiable man, of want of love? Would it not b, e sinning against him, yet more highly, to let him know my crime, by alking his forgiveness, for my
unjiust. Suspicions?
No, I will blush in silence, and humble my fdf before heaven, ana you who alone are conscious of my folly— — thou great first author of my happiness! and thou dear parentt filler, guardian of my youth, excuse my weak aefs, that had well nigh dashed the cup of
K 4 blessing
46
X
blessing from me, or mingled it with bitterness for ever!
I HEAR my dear lord’s tuneful voice inquiring for his Emily? I come, my love;
Adieu, my dear Sister,
E. woodviui,
Woodville to Lady Straffon.
fwith the foregoing letter.]
JOY to my dear lady Straffon, to Sir John, to miss Straffon, and to all who love my Emily! I have the transport to inform you, that Ihe has made me the happy father of a lovely boy 1 aoj herself as well as her, situation ean admit. Mv sister lawson, lady Harriet, and miss Weston, join in congratulations, and compliments to you, with your affectionate
Woodville.”
V
_ •# ______
Note, The letters from lady Straffon, that immediately follow this, contain only congratulations, and minute inquiries about her lister’s and nephew’s health; and as they are by no means interesting, the editor better to omit them, and return
to the corr ndence between lord Seymour and lord Wood
I
I
LETI

t
4
'\
  47
1 E T T E R LII
I
Lord Woodville to Lord Seymour.
My dear Seymour,
IH A V E been at home now above a week, yet have purposely avoided writing to you, as your last interdicted me from mentioning the only subject of which I am capable of thinking. 0 Seymour I it is in vain to disguise it; my head and heart, are filled with her alone! Upon the exertion of any painful act of virtue, we flatter ourselves that we have absolutely conquered its opposite vice, or weakness; our vanity triumphs, and like the French, we frequently chant out Le Deum, without having gained a vistory.
Too much I feel that this has been my cafe.
I begin to fear that I Shall not even be capable of disguising my unhappiness; and of pratvifing this dissimulation, which in my singular situation should be deemed a virtue.
I HAVE discovered that lady Woodville has lately wept much; I once Surprised her alone, in a flood of tears. I could not bear them : they reproached me, Seymour I but it was with Silent anguish. I pressed to know the cause of her distress: : she revealed it, and but once upbraided me, though in the gentlest terms, I fear I should have thrown away the mask, avowed my passion, and quitted her for ever..
But her Soft nature knew not how to chide, and Seemed alarmed for fear she had offended. Her suffering gentleness unmanned me quite, or rather on the instant, it restored all that is worthy of the name of man, ray reason, and my virtue; and I dare hope, that From that time,
K 5 she
\
■ ^ u
she has been well deceived, and that I only am the victim of my own weakness.
I SHALL address this letter to London;!
7 •
think it is more likely that it should meet you there at present, than at the hot wells. I entreat you will wait upon the marchioness, and tell her, Seymour, what my heart endures; let me at least: have Some merit, from the Sacrifice I have made, and not be deemed ungrateful, ot insenfible by her.
If you hear anything of Ransford, let me know. -- -- -- His father is outrageous at his conduct,
and even I think he is to blame.
I Adieu, my valued friend,
Woo dvillz
I
a
*
\ LETTER LIII
I
i:
I Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville.
Dear Woodville,
I A M Sincerely Sorry for your relapstng into state of weakness, which must be always |; i state of misery. I confess I thought you in tl:
I Surest train for happiness, as the having cot
r quered ourselves, is the only Subject I know h
i real exultation. But as your conduct has bet
truly noble, and that no person has Suffered froi what I now confider as your own misfortune, r; i one can have a right to reproach you; and it
i for your own Sake alone, that I now entreat yc
f to struggle with your too partial attachment
I an unworthy woman.
You desire me to acquaint her with the fla cf your heart; can you fuppose me So wet
as to comply with your request, were it with f n
/
!. '
  49
ny power? But I must travel Some miles to. ford the fugitive conqueror the triumph you der
igned.
She Set ou t from London, five days ago, with four friend Ransford. Shear they intend make ng the tour of Italy together. Prosperous gales, ind calm Seas, attend them 1 You. See when a lady is bent upon travelling he can easily Supply herself with a Cicisheo; ind I fancy that Ransford will be a much more jgreeable companion, upon this party, than your lordship possibly could have beem — He carries, not the stings of remorse about him, the bane of joy, or peace! neglect of his father may \ sometimes possibly cloud his gaiety, but one glance from the bright, eyes of the marchioness will quickly dispel the gloom.
Will you forgive me for owning that I am transported at. their union? Would to heaven that you could receive joy from it also I Had she fallen lower than she has done, it might have mortified your pride; but if you can divest yourself of self-love, you must allow that Ransford is more calculated for a lover than you are.
I think he bows withi a better grace, sings charmingly, dances Superlatively well, is more idroit in his person, is above an inch'taller, and has ten times your, vivacity.
I BOTH hope, and believe, that they are married; and as Ransford does not want penetration, he may possibly have discovered your attachment to her;; he will therefore probably prevent her returning' to England, for Some years. Let her but keep out of your way, and L care not what becomes of her.
Do, my dear Woodville, let me congratulate your escape from that Circe! and rejoice with lou in the amiable character of her, whom
Providence.
9
50
Providence has destgned to bless your future days!
I HAVE businefs that will detain me in London, for this month to come; the moment that is finished I will fly to Woodfort, and hope to find you, and every one there, as happy asthej ought to be; to wish for more is vain.
Seymour.
LETTER LIV
or Woodville to Seymour.
I
HOW could my cruel friend attempt to jell
with misery like mine I It is impoilible!
. ■ — It must: not, cannot be 1 the marchioness gone css with Ransford! by heaven it is false, though thoh, my dearest, truest friend, aver it! You thought to cure my passion by this legend; but you have blown the steeping embers to a flame; ' and honest indignation for the injury she sustains, adds fuel to the fire.
Ransford! why Ransford knew her notlix weeks ago. — Their first meeting was at York. — He must have seen her passion. — She could not disguife it; nay, I know she would not — She is above disguise.
Why, Seymour, should you treat me like a
child, and strive to impose impossibilities upor
me? how can a heart, that has felt what your;
has done. Sport with a lover’s anguish? Ian
impatient till I Send off this, that by the meffeiv
ger you may restore her peace, and clear m;
honour. O! you have Set my bosora all on fire
be quick, and quench the blaze, lest it confunv
tb
  51
the innocent cause of all my vvretchednefs, along with your distracted friend.
Woodville.
P. S. The Servant who carries this, must neither steep or eat, till he brings back your answer.
Khali do neither till I receive it. For pity Sake, my friend, trifle no farther, but at once relieve, and excuse the distraction you have caused.
LETTER LV
drseymour to Woodville.
I
i
T T TELL may est thou call thyself distracted yv Woodville! and I as such, can pity and forgive thee. — Yet must I not become infected by thy folly, and treat thee like a wayward child indeecl. ' |
As I would not have descended to a falsehood, i even to have cured you of your weakness, for I cannot call it passion. So neither shall I Sooth you now, by contradicting the truth that I have already asserted; and however impossible it may appear to you, that the marchioness should So quickly enter into any engagements with Ransford, it is most certain, that they left London, | in the Same post-chaise, on Monday se’nnight, |
and that she declared her intention of vistting Italy to my stster Sandford, who was extremely scandalised at her behaviour, with regard to Mr, Ransford, during the short time she staid in town. Since they returned from York. i
Be assured that I am sincerely affected by the;;
niiferable condition of your mind. — — I cannot :
help I
'I.
i I
■. I
52 J htl onnica i il ois i ke.ss.
help considering you as in a state of fascination for if your reason could operate at all, you could not possibly be astonished, that a woman, who had jilted you four years ago, and preferred age and disease to you, when she professed to love you, and when it was In your power to marry her, should abandon you now, that she cannot be your wife, for a lively, agreeable man, who is, probably, as much enamoured of her, though not quite so' romantic as your lordship.
As you are not, at present.. a Situation to receive any benefit from the admonitions of friendship, I shall reserve my Sentiments for i fitter occasion, and not detain your Servant longer, than while I Subscribe myself
Still yours.
Seymour.
•mp w w vft w t*f w Tir w tp Tir Tjr w
L E T T E R LVI
I
Lore/woodville to Seymour.
♦ #
Yes,, Seymour, I will own I have been mad;
I wake as from a dream: yet why, my kind, my cruel friend, have y«ru recovered me from that delirium, which, like an opiate, while. it weakened. Soothed my enfeebled fense, and
left me Scarce a wish to struggle with my malady? Yes, she is gone! my friend repeats it, and it must be true!
^ Married to Ransford! Can I yet believe it?
“O may the furies light their nuptial torch!” Dissembling, cruel woman! she saw the anguish of my breaking heart, when honour triumphed i over my self-love, and prevented my accepting
1 the sacrifice she offered, to her destruction.
I perhapsj.
^ • t
I
thnunnica in ois iknss. .53
Perhaps, that stung her pride, perhaps, she loves me still, but could not bear to be rejected by me. — Perhaps, I have undone her peace, as Ihe has mine. — O no! a younger, gayer, newer lover, absorbs all thoughts of me I I am forgotten, and I will forget
-- -- not Isabella! my life, my soul, my love I
Do not detest me, Seymour; I would, but cannot conquer this disease.
The moment I had Sent off Williams, with my last to you, I ordered my horses, anffrode off thirty miles, towards London, not only to be so much nearer the return of my express, but to prevent lady Woodville from observing my diffraction.
When I had got about five miles from Woodfort, I Sent back my Servant, to let her know, that I should Spend three or four days, in hunting with Sir William atkinson, whom I just; then met, going up to London.
I HAD fettled my plan with Williams, who returned, even quicker, than I thought it possible. I have now Spent three days at a wretched inn, where, were it in my choice, I would remain for ever. Here I can curse, and I can weep — but the innocent lady Woodville may be rendered unhappy, by my stay. — She loves me, as I loved the -- -- Let me not name her.
Sir James Thornton leaves us in a few days. I must return to Woodfort. — O write soon I ancjl once more Say, you pity and forgive,
your’s, ever,
Woodville.
\
r
1
0
■ : LET
• •-
thk delicate distress.
LETTER LVII
.
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville. Dear Woodville,
I WRITE to you, merely because you desire it; for I am well convinced, that nothing
which I, or the greatest philosopher that ever existed, could Say to you, would have any effect upon your mind, in its present state; and ray own is, at this instant, So extremely agitated, that I am Scarce capable of writing at all.
I HAVE, this day, received a letter, from Captain Beaumont. — The contents will amaze you. About Six weeks ago, the acknowledged ion of madame de Beaumont, was taken ill of the Smallpox; and as her daughter had never had it, the general and she thought proper to send her to a friend’s house, lest her beauty should be endangered by the infection.
This young lady, now about fifteen, who. had never been out of her mother’s sight before, happened, in the family she was placed in, to become acquainted with a young musqueteer, handsome, and accomplished, but without rank or fortune. They quickly became enarr, cured of each other; and, at the end of a fortnight,
’ eloped together, and got Safe into Holland. They might, possibly, have been overtaken, and prevented from marrying, if the lady, t whose care Maria Beaumont was entrusted, had not dreaded the violence of madame de beaumont’s temper, so much that she did not dare to inform her of the misfortune, till it was past ret

medy.
In the mean time, the young, and by all accounts amiable, heir of the family, expired in
his
  55
his father’s arms. The violent agitation of madame de beaumont’s mind threw her into a raging fever. — During her delirium, she raved in ceisantly, on the ingratitude and basenefs of Maria, and her own inhumanity to the unhappy Charlotte.
The general, who now considered himself as childless, gladly laid hold on the opportunity of endeavouring to recover those, he had formerly, mt lojly but thrown away — he therefore prevailed on madame de Beaumont to see Charlotte. He went himself to the convent, and having declared his hitherto concealed affinity to Charlotte, he obtained leave from the abbess, to let her visit her dying mother.
But no tongue or pen can express the various emotions of Surprise, grief, and joy, which were occasioned by the sight of his lovely daughter, when she cast herself at his feet, to receive his benediction. — Like poor old Lear he would have knelt to her, and begged forgiveness.
But when she presented herself on her knees, by the bedside of madame de Beaumont, the unhappy woman, unable to Sustain the sight of h much injured beauty, fainted quite away;
ut the moment she was recovered to her rea on, she called for Charlotte, and never let ler quit her sight, or ceased to pour forth blessings on her, and implore her pardon, till she expired.
Before she died, she entreated Charlotte to uit the convent, and remain with her unhappy ather while he lived. She desired that a dis ^enfation from her vows might be immediately olicited from the Pope, and that captain beau iiont, and lord Seymour might be Sent for, in irder to obtain their forgiveness. But only one,
if her wishes was accomplished. — captain Beau i
mon
; I
J (. •
I
'1
56 THE.DELICATE DISTRESS.
mont arrived, about two hours before her death" she Saw, and blessed him.
He writc s^ me word, that neither his father
^ a ^
borshimself, can prevail on Charlote, to think of returning into the world again; but that Ihe has consented to go into the country with them, for a couple of months, merely in hopes of reconciling the general to his youngest daughter. He desires me to fy to Belleviie, that I may at leaf! see his Sister, before she is again Secluded from the world for ever.
O Woodville 1. I want but wings, to obey him I But hark, my chariot wheels rattle, and my impatient heart,, much more than beats responsive to the horses feet.
Adieu, adieu, my friend.
Seymour.
LETTER LVIII
Lord Woodville to Lord Seymour.
I KNOW not whether to congratulate or condole with my dear Seymour, on the very exr traordinary events that have happened in the Beaumont family. His feelings, I know, mull arise from those of his beloved Charlotte; andl am, at present, doubtful,, whether she will ever again recover in the same degree,, that peaceful resignation, which we may Suppose she had acquired, and was in full possession of, a few week: ago..
All the passions of that gentle nature muo i now be roused to tumult; the sight of her deal
Seymour, must give her joy, transporting joy which is as much an enemy to peace, as the mof
poignan
  57
loignant misery. And yet, again, must Ihe be orn from all the Social ties of human life; again le buried in that quick Sepulchre, a convent!
Do not, my friend, indulge a Single thought if her returningbacky into the world. — It cannot le: Charlotte Beaumont will not be prevailed ipon, even by the man she loves, to break her ows to heaven: for though I believe her pos effed of the most exalted virtue, she cannot, pof ibly, be free from Superstition,, as she is both a roman and a catholic.
You will, perhaps, be Surprised at my writ ng to you in this strain; but I would wish you 0 guard your heart against its greatest foe, against slsdeluston, Seymour I that fly, slow, under niner of our reason, and our peace! that, lying ifhispered to my weak presumption, I might be lold the marchioness, unmoved I Fatal, fatal er or! it has undone me,, Seymour! But I will hink, I mean Speak, of her no more.
I HAVE an anecdote to tell you, which con inces me, that adam’s curse is intailed on all lis offspring.
‘ He never shall find out fit mate, but Such ' As Some misfortune brings him, or mistake;
'Or whom he wishes most, shall Seldom gain,
‘ Through her perverfeness; but shall see her. gained,
'By a far worse;; if she loves, withheld ‘ By parents; or, his happiest choice, too late ‘ Shall meet, already linked and wedlock bound,
‘to a fell adversary, his hate, or shame;
‘ Which infinite calamity shall cause ‘ To human life, and household peace confounds’
V
Thornton
1; t.
• *1
%
J
58   j
Though RNTON quitted Woodfort, three days ]
ago. -- -- The morning he went off, he left a I
letter for me, which contained an absolute deck I ration of the most: ardent passion for lady Wood I ville! You may perhaps,, think he was a little out in the choice of a confidant — by no means,
I assure you. linclosed his letter immediately to my wife, and felt myself really concerned for his misfortune. Emily is certainly capable of infph ring the moss delicate passion; Thornton was a Second Cymon, when he first Saw her; andl may with great truth Say, that with all the beauties of an Iphigene, she is possessed of every amiable virtue that can inspire esteem and rcfped. — I would give millions to change passions with him.
I CAN Scarce to hope to hear from you, while the charming delirium of your happiness Ms; but when you return again to reason and misery, I shall then be a proper companion for your afilio tion. But in every situation of life I shall remain unalterably,
your’s,
Woodville.
LETTER LIX
Lady Straffon to laj)? Woodville.
t
AS my dear Emily may yet be considered as an invalid, I think myself bound to write every day, and everything that can possibly contribute to her amusement, without expeff ing or waiting for any acknowledgment of letters.
Sir
i
/
  $9>
Sir John returned last: night, from paying his lall duty to his aunt lady Aston, and very well Ihe has paid him for his attendance. She has bequeathed to him the pleasant manor of Astifield, which is worth between eight and nine hundred pounds a year; apd made him her restduary legatee, when he has paid her bequests, of twelve thousand pounds to Lucy, a thousand pounds apiece, to ray children, and Some few legacies to old Servants.
As Soon as Sir John had acquainted us with this agreeable news, he alked Lucy, if Ihe was yet determined, with regard to lord Mount Willis? when, to my great pleasure and Surprise, Ihe answered, Yes, I think I (hall be ready to ’ive him my hand before this day fe’nnight; tho’ cannot pofitiyely fix the day, as lawyers are dilatory folks.
Sir John then began to rally her, on what he imagined to be her attention to Settlements, c. and told her that rny lord and he would take care of all those matters without her assistance. She answered with a very steadfast countenance and determined air. You will pardon me, brother; for once, and only once in my life, I am resolved to act for myself— — hear my resoluiirn, which I desire you will communicate to lord Mount Willis tomorrow morning.
When his lordship did me the honour to address me, I had then but five thousand pounds, a fortune much too Small to be an object of consideration, to him; but neither he nor you knew It that time, that I had but a use, even in that small Sum for life.
Sir John attempted to interupt her, by inquiring what she meant? she begged that he would suffer her to proceed without intcruption, and went on. — The Severe treatment I met with at the
same
J
6o
same time, from Sir James Miller, made me at that time, resolve that I would never marry. we little know our hearts in many particulars of!
life; but least: of all in this.
Bu t the extreme kindness I met with, atth( same time, from lady Straffon, laid me under such indelible obligations, as no time nor dr cumstance can ever efface. I then determined, nay declared, that I would bequeath my fortune lo my niece Emily; and no power on earth (hall make me alter my resolution.
From my aunt’s unmeritted goodness tome, it is now in my power to fulfil my intentions before my death, and to give a proof of that gratitude, which I owe to my more than Sister. Again both Sir John and I would have broken in on her discourse, but she beckoned for Silence.
When this, the first wish of my heart, is accomplished, I shall still have a much better fortune than lord Mount Willis first expested with me. — But it must not be all his. Sir James Miller has been in Some degree conducive to that happiness, which I expect and hope for from an union with his lordship. Sir James is poor and wretched; justly punished for his crimes, but not rewarded, for the benefits he has conferred on me. — Some Small provision must be made for him, without his ever knowing from whom he receives it. I formerly looked upon him with horror and aversion;; now confider him as my benefactor; and the Saving him from the miseries of extreme poverty, will relieve my mind from a sort of mental debt.
Sir John could forbear no longer, but clasping her in his arms said. Providence had made him rich indeed, when it had bestowed such treasures
on him, as his wife and Sister. Both he and I
hid
t *
h
/
TEE DELICATE DISTRESS. O
id everything to distuade her, from her intend d gift to Emily, but in vain.
Sir John Seemed to hint as if he thought it; old be better that her generous intentions towards Sir James Miller, should be executed by fd Mount Willis., rather than herself. By no neans, brother, replied Lucy; were there a re nain of tenderness for him, in my heart, the world should not bribe me to marry its Sole lord. jenerosity should flow from principle, not paf ion; and, as I can truly boast that this action, dth regard to Sir Janies Miller, arises from the first source, nothing must change the current of it. My conduct on this occasion is, I think the highest compliment that I can pay to lord Mount Willis, andl have not a doubt of his considering
it, in that high light.
We both acquiesced in her opinipn, and Sir John waited on lord Mountwillis this morning, to inform him of lucy’s intentions. He says he never Saw any person So transported as his lord ihip; he Said he had ever looked upon Lucy as
the most amiable of women, - but that her gene rosity to Sir James Miller made him now look tip to her, as to a Superior being; and that if (he gave thousands he ought to give ten thousands, to the unhappy man, who had been in any degree instrumental to his felicity.
tihis will be a whimsical contest, I think, Emily, but I do not fancy that Lucy will consent to ray lord’s interfering with her designs. At present, she intends to lay out four thousand pounds, in an aniiuity for Sir James; which if he continues to live abroad, may Support him decently.
I HAVE been this day to bespeakapair of diamond buckles, and a very fine egrette, which
Sir John and I mean to present her with. I know
lord
62
lord Mount willis’s family jewels are very rich, but i^y dear lucy’s virtues will outshine them
all! -- -- Indeed she is an honour, not only to her
sex, but to human nature.
She joins with me in entreating yours, and lord woodville’s company at her wedding. Surely my Emily will not refuse' us both 1 you can have no doubts but that your little boy will be taken every possible care of, and even a little month’s absence, from that dear face, on which y our jdotage hangs, will make an amazing change
"for the better in it -- He will be as handfotne
again by the time of your return to Woodfort.
Lu C Y writes this night to lady Harriet and Fanny Weston, to attend her nuptials. — All girls will fly to a wedding, so that you will be left totally alone, if you are so ill natured as to deny our request.
Who knows what a good example may do? — The penflve lady Harriet may perhaps be prevailed upon to Sigh no more for her perjured Swain, but may possibly be inclined to make some. worthy man happy. As to Fanny Weston I am persuaded that the festivity of a wedding will entirely conquer her hopeless passion for the wandering Thornton. She is no Penelope, believe me; and I fancy Mr. Willis, my lord’s brother, will be able to banish the errant knight quite out of her mind.
Adieu, my dear Emily. I hope you will make me happy in your next, by telling me that I shall soon have the pleasure of Seeing you. Indeed I want nothing else at present to compleal my felicity.
F. Straffon.
\
LET
  6^
\
s
L k T T E R LX
Udy Woodville to Lady Straffon.
My dear Fanny,
AM extremely charmed, but not Surprised, at lucy’s conduct. — There is everything to! expected from fen/ibility and delicacy joined; It indeed I have Scarce ever known them sepa* ited in a female heart. Refined manners are le iiaturahonfequences of fine feelings, which ill even in an untutored mind form a Species th of virtue and good breeding, higher than ly thing that is to be acquired, either in courts rfchools; but when these two qualities receive ifcry addition that education and example can jftow.
When youth makes such bright objects still more bright,
'And fortune Sets them in the strongest light; Tis all of Heaven that we below may view. And all but adoration is their due.”
Thus do I think of our dear Lucy; yet I must ly that she has been uncommonly fortunate in aving such an opportunity of exerting the noble ualities of her heart, and proving how much iperior she is to the detestable meanness of mace or revenge. Charming girl! may she be i happy as she deserves!
She, as well as you, has entreated me to par ike happiness. — Alas, Fanny! though grief is Jntagious, we cannot always Sympathise with
y- -- perverseness of our natures that
ccepts the evil, and rejects the good I Do not
L from'
*
64
from this, fuspect me of malevolence, or fun. pose that I do not truly rejoice in Lucy ’s felicity, But there is, I know not why, a kind of weight that hangs upon my mind, which I find it irnpossible to remove. Perhaps change of place may help to shake it off— — that ask may, I shall certainly comply with your’s and lucy’s request.
Mt lord has kindly promised to accompany me, and our Sweet little babe is to be left at lady .dawson’s. Indeed, Fanny, you Scarce can think what a sacrifice I make to quit him for a day; but he will be under the protection of the best of women.
I FEAR there is a Scene preparing that will trouble her repose. That bad miss Fanning! what a heart must hers be? how void of gratitude J and where that virtue is wanting, there can fubfist no other. — Neither precept nor example can operate on base minds.
Is it not strange that nature should varyfo much in the human genius as to create a Lucy Straffon,; aml a Mary Fanning! So nearly of the same age too; both descended from good families; and both well educated. The animal creation do not differ thus from their own Species. There are no furious sheep, nor wild tigers. — Nature is uniform in all her works, but man. — hapless variety! Source of misery I the tiger and the lamb are not less similar than the betrayer, and betrayed — yet both wear the same form, and only by experience is the difference found. ■ — Nay, Sometimes we have Seen the fairest face conceal the vilest heart; as lurks the Serpent underneath the rose— — is a mortifyingfub* ject; I will no more of it.
Fanny Weston, as you guessed, is in high
Spirits, at the idea of lucy’s wedding. -- -- She
talk!
  65
V
lies of nothing but dress, equipage, and jewels, er Since it has been mentioned — but a new bject is of infinite use in the country; and I Hot know whether a great funeral had not en tained her quite as much. — Nodding plumes d painted escutcheons will amuse the imagina m, when gilt coaches and gay liveries do not me in the way. —
Happy trifler! how I envy her........ yet I am
re Ihe loves Lucy, and fancies that she is really amoured of Sir James Thornton too. — I am rtain that lady Harriet would gladly be excused )m going to London, but I will not Seem to i which way her inclinations tend.
(
I
I
_ i I
The Silent heart, which grief assails, |
Treads Soft and lonesome, o’er the vales. i
Sees daisies open, rivers run,
Aiid Seeks, as I have vainly done,
Amusing thought; but learns to know |
solitude’s the nurse of woe.’*
«
id a Soft, and tender nurse it is — but dissipati tnay perhaps be good for us all, and lady I
irrict shall try the recipe as well as
Your affectionate, ci

}
JE. W00DVILLB.V
. I ' ■ - ii

i
/)
V
t
'‘ i'
i
!
I
<
I
La LET. Il
’I
LI
66
LETTER LXI
Lady Straffon to Lady Woodville.
(
I THINK myself extremely obliged to my dear Emily, for her compliance with her friend’s request:. — You cannot conceive what delightful effects the hopes of Seeing you have produced in hill street. — Sir John talks of nothing elfe but the fparkler; you know he used to call you so. — Lucy is all gratitude for your kindness, and my little Emily holds up her head most amazingly, that her aunt may observe what a fine carriag? she has, and how much she is grown Since Ihe Saw her. — The Servants are all transported with double joy for lucy’s wedding, and your arrival, In short, every one wears a Smiling face, and I shall not pardon it, if there should appear the smallest trace of gloom on yours.
I AM very Sorry for what you hint at, with regard to Lady lawson — but be assured, that a woman should be thoroughly convinced, rot only of her hushand’s attachment, but of his morals also, before she introduces a female inmate, younger, though perhaps not fairer than herself.
The caution should be equally attended to, with regard to male intimates. — I have Seldom "known an habitual friendship, that did not kindle, into what is called love, where there have been youth, beauty, and unceasing opportunity to fan the flame.
I THINK, if I were in Lady lawfon’s cafe, 1
should not feel much — for the heart of a man
who is capable of Seducing a young creature,
that is immediately under his protection, c2n
never be worth regretting. I have always heard
that
  67
lat Sir William is a very debauched man; and truly delicate woman cannot preserve her af: ftion, for Such a one, long. — Contempt must )llow vice; and where we once despise, we Soon 3uft cease to love.
Nor do I look upon miss Fanning as an object f pity — bred up, as she has been, with So ex, client a woman, one should suppose her heart eplete with every virtue; — but she cannot, pos ibly, be possessed even of the common merits, .'hich we expect from a chambermaid, when he can descend to prostitution, without tempta ion.
Had she been led astray by an agreeable young nan, I could have pitied, nay, perhaps, have oved, and even esteemed her; for I am not Such n Amazon in ethics, as to confider a breach of hallity, as the highest crime that a woman can e guilty of; though it is certainly the most un lardonable folly; and I believe there are many omen who have erred in that point, who may lave more real virtue, aye, and delicacy too, hanhalf the sainted dames who value themselves m the preservation of their chastity; which, in 11 probability, has never been assailed. She lone who has withstood the iolicitations of a nan (hefondly loves, may boast her virtue; and will venture to Say, that Such an heroine wilt « more inclined to pity, than despise the un liippy victims of their own weakness.
I HAVE Iported my opinion upon this Subject cry freely; you must therefore allow me to ex hin myself more clearly. I know your delicacy dll be hurt if I do not; and I may expect to be cverely attacked by my dear little prude.
FIRST then I confine my fair penitents to hir first choice; a Second error of this Sort is lever to be pardoned. — Passion is the only excuse
L 3 that
68
that can possibly be made for Such a transgression i and a woman who has made Such a sacrifice to love alone may be perfectly Satisfied, that Ihe can never be Subject to that passion in the same degree again. For there never is above one human creature that we can love better thanm> fehes.
The woman who receives two gallants, is In my mind, quite upon a footing with the mod venal beauties; whose capacious hearts [corn to be limited to any number. All married ladiesl absolutely exclude frorn my order of amiable unfortunates — they cannot even pretend to be deceived; — whereas a ssmple girl, however mean her condition, may flatter herself, that her lover’s intentions are honourable. Old legends tell cf king Cophetua and the beggar maid; and your Pamelas, and your Mariannes, encourage hope in young untutored minds, which perhapt the artful destroyer takes the utmost pains toen crease; “’till they can trust, and he betray no
more.”
This is I confess a nice Subject for a woman to treat upon; but I promise you I will endeavour to make my girl distinguish between viq and weakness; and I hope while she detests though one, she will be always ready to pity, and if in her power to protect the other. — — There is no character I So heartily abominate as that of the outrageoujjy virtuous. I have Seen a lady render her felt hateful to a large company by repeating, perhaps a forged tale of Some unhappy frail one, with Such a degree of rancour and malevolence, a is totally inconsistent with the calm dignity of r«al virtue.
Have you ever read a fable, which is bound up with Mr. moore’s, but was written by Mr. Brook, called the Female Seducers? I think it
the
  69
he prettiest thing, that ever was written ' upon his subject— — that I refer you for my fenti nents at large.
Your remark upon the diverstty of natures, iniongst the human Species, is pretty and inge lious; — but when we consider the amazing va iety there is in the animal creation; and how nany of them are noxious, we cannot wonder hat there should be Some difference in human [ind. Had we been all formed with equal vir ues, those very virtues would have been ren lered ufeless; — an insipid tameness would have )revented emulation, and'.ush would have become i perfect Sinecure.
On the other hand, were we all vicious, dis jfder and confusion must take place, and this world be quickly reduced to its primitive chaos.
Without temptation, there could be no virtue; ind without virtue, this world could not Sitbstsh We should not be So much pleased with the ptlcness of the lamb, if there was no animal more fierce, nor should we feel the sweetness of ' the woodlark’s note. So Senfibly as we do, if we had never heard the screech owl’s voice, or the croaking of the raven. It is by comparison alone, that we are capable of estimating good and evil, both in the moral and natural lense.
I COULD illustrate my argument, as fully amongst our owm Species, as in the brute creation; but I have drawn this letter to Such an immoderate length, that I must at least defer the remainder of my discourse, parson like, to another opportunity.
Ev ERY thing is Settled to lucy’s mind; and lord Mount willis’s happy day is fixed for Sal
4 turday

tiirday fortnight. I hope you will come to town next week; till then.
Adieu,
my ever dear Emily.
F. Straffon.
LETTER LXII
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
Dear Fanny,
I SHOULD have answered your letter by lall post:, but was prevented, by having company. The two miss withers’s Spent three days with us. — I told you before, they were charming women; but agreeable as I first thought them I now think them ten tirties more So.
The eldest is extremely Sensible, and perfesly accomplished, but of a grave turn; the youngest has every merit of her sister, with the moll en gauging vivacity imaginable. She is soon to be
married to an Irish nobleman. -- Happy man,
who is to be blessed with Such a companion!
She Seems to feel Some regret at the thoughts of quitting her friends and England; but says she is Sure that her lord will be So good to let her visit them Sometimes; and she would by no means, wish to detach him from his native country, or prevent his Spending that fortune in it, which he derives from it.
Miss Withers is gone to ir’tland, with her Sister. I am almost Sorry thar L ever was acquainted with these Sweet girls, since I am tolofe the pleasure of their Society So Soon. They told me a piece of news, which though it Surprised, did not displcase me. — Mr. Ransford is married
to
  71
0 the marchioness of St. Aumont, and they are low in France together. I
Is it not odd, that my lord never mentioned his particular, as it is no Secret in the country } nd he must certainly know it, as he has been mce or twice to See Sir Harry Ransford. But think you desired me never to pry into his mo ives for anything; and I obey. 1 j
Indeed, Fanny, you appear to me to affect he lloic too much, from what you lay about j
ady lawson; but we can all bear the misfortunes if others with great fortitude,
“When they are lalh’d we kiss the rod,
resigning to the will of God.’^
I
In my mind, ladylawson’s trial is a very fiery me. — She is, she must: be doubly distressed. As j
0 the flight infidelities of husbands, I think the |
dfe must be contemptible who resents them; I
lut every woman, that truly loves her husband' '
to preserve his heart; and a consciousness if his attachment to another object, must be pro ludive of the most poignant anguish. Happy, lappy Sister! that have never felt that ‘hydra of : alamity.’
I GRANT that Sir William Lawson has ever een a debauched man, but always had, except n this instance. So much regard to his lady, to Iccency and humanity as to conceal his vices rom her : He therefore, had not forfeited her : fteem though she had lost his love. — O loss be fond repair! Then her affection for that wretch iiifs Fanning, must add to her distress. Not saving been blessed with children, she looked '
ipon this worthless girl as her own daughter — can she in a moment forget the tenderness
l5 she
'' i
.. ' ' I
I •
;
9
*)
• I »
. 1
'^ i
I
72 i rul U IL LV 1 A i IL jli 1 S I K E 5^.
she has indulged so long, and detest the wicked couple, as she ought? -- -- -- impossible!
I AM really angry at your philosophic infen sibility upon this occaston, — for my part I can Scarcely behave with common civility, either to Sir William or miss Fanning. But lady lawfon,
who is a Saint, behaves with her usual kindness to them both, nor has ever Seemed to havedif covered or hinted the least fuspicion, of what is already too visible to the whole country— — her lovely face is emaciated and pale; and some times, involuntary sighs and tears escape her.
I KNOW my lord is extremely distressed, on this occasion, he loves Kis Sister tenderly; but fears his interposing might possibly make Sir Williamday aside all restraint, and perhaps, occaston a Separation from his wife. I am glad, for this reason, that we are leaving the country, as i imagine miss fanning’s Situation will make her removal necessary, before we return to Woodfort.
Yq u need not have apprehended my distent ing from your generous Sentiments with regard to the unhappy victims of love. — Nay I carry my humanity further, and feel for those who, without strong passion, fall a Sacrifice to the vile arts of their Seducer, and their own weakness, That nnsuspecting confidence, which is too frequently the cause of womens ruin, must certainly arise from a generous disposition;; I should look upon a young innocent girl, who was armed at all points like a Moor of moor hall, to be an unnatural character.
At the Same time I detest a vicious woman, more than anything in the creation; and for this reason, my compassion does not extend to married ladies, in general any more than yours. -- --
They have always a protector to sty to; who
upon
  73
upon that occaston, if upon no other, will with open arms receive them — for though every man may not love his wife, every man is certainly jealous of his honour; and the false notions of the world are, at present So constituted, that the failure of a woman brings infamy upon her husband;; in a much more pitiable cafe, it rests Solely upon the injured unfortunate.
However, Fanny, I agree with you, this is too nice a Subject for a female pen; though one isinsensibly led into reflections that are humiliating to an honest mind. But when he who knew the frailty of our natures, adjudged the convict criminal, his Sentence was not Severe; for well he knew it was impossible there could be found a wretch so lost to humanity as to throw a stone.
Let not the young, the gay, the rich, the fortunate, whose situations in life have prevented their being liable to temptation, like an herd of deer, turn their armed brows against their wounded friend, and give her to the hunters!
Miss Withers and I were last night talking upon this Subject, and she repeated a little poem, that lord Digby,. her lister’s lover, had shown her. It was written upon a particular occaston, at a water drinking place in Ireland called Mallow, Some years ago. — The unfortunate subject of it had been a much admired character in that place, a few feasons before, and dignified by the title of Sappho.
The lines are extremely pretty; turn over
nd you will find them in^the next page.
I
*
VERGES
%
J. ju XX ... X ... X 1XU.O0.
/
VERSES
it R I '!■ T E K at the
Fountain at Mallow, in she County of Cork, i
'in Ireland.
Thou azure fount, whose crystal stream,
Was once a nobler poet’s theme.
While to inspire the tuneful strain,
Sappho was called, nor called in vain.
Ah let the good forgive! if here,
I pay the tribute of a tear.
In tender grief for sappho’s fate.
The wonder of thy banks So late.
So many virtues were thy share.
Thou most accomplished, ruined fair!
One error Sure may be forgiven.
And pardon find from Earth and Heaven That Sovereign power made us all.
Suffered the Sons of light to fall!
And oft to mortify our pride.
From virtue lets the wisestflide.
Ye fair, no more her faults proclaim;
For your own sakes, conceal her shame;
Since if a nymph So wise could fail.
We well may think Ye all are frail!
A TRUCE for the present with this, and every other Subject, but the pleastng thought of our meeting, which I hope will be on Tuesday evening next.
Till then,
adieu.
E. WOOPVILLE.
P. S.
M
\
#
1 tin onnica1 n oisikiiss. 75
P. S. We have got a furnished house, in St. ames’s ftreet; and I am strongly tempted to ring my Sweet little Harry with me. — Cruel hnny, never to mention my little cherub! but 7/ be revengedy and love hiyn better for it.
I
LETTER LXIII
Lady Woodville to Lady Lawson.
London, Jan. 18.
A THOUSAND thanks to my dear lady lawson, for the pleastng account she has; iven me, of herself, and my dear little boy. Sou will perhaps, think me ill natured, for re oicing that you have no other companion at pre ent; but I am not so Selfish as you imagine, up m this occaston; for I well know that the most greeable company in the world could not abate our affectionate attention to him.
But there are certain situations in life, when ur dearest friends become irksome to us from an pprehension that they may possibly discover what e wish to hide. — There needs no other illustra ion of my opinion, than a fair confession, that have Sometimes, Seen you under these very ircumstances, with your brother and myself. — lut I hope and believe you will never again ex lerience them. I may now Speak freely upon a abject, which though your virtue and goodness, oncealed. Sir William has thought proper to nention to my lord with every eulogium on your onduct, which noble as it has been, it could leserve.
Miss Fanning Set out for Yorkshire this norning, truly sensible of your goodness, and
he
76
her own unworthiness. Sir William says he is
certain, that it is not in your nature to deteil
her as much as she does herself. He told ray lord that this affair was by no means So unfortunate an event, with regard to you two as it might at first: have appeared to be; as your behaviour had not only made him esteem and admire, but love you also, a thousand degrees more than he ever had done before.
He declared that he felt the impatience of a lover, to throw himself at your feet, and said he never should forgive himself for having rendered you unhappy by his infamous condust, Joy, joy, to my dear sister! will you forgive my Saying, that I envy your situation??
WOULD give you an account of lady Mount willis’s wedding, dress, equipage, c. kc. did I not know that your full heart can have no room to entertain such trifling ideas. But I am certain it will give you pleasure to hear that lord Mount Willis is as amiable and accomplished as his charming bride, and that I think they have the fairest prospect of a long uninterrupted course of happiness.
As the house of lord’s are now sitting, yeut brother purposes staying in town, till March; but I may whisper to you what I would not have him hear, that I cannot help regretting so long an absence from Woodfort, from my child, and from yourself.
Lady Harriet, my sister Straffon, and Fanny Weston, present their more than compliments, and my lord joins in love and sincere congratulations, with your
Truly affectionate,
E. Woodville.
f
LET
1 HH olllilcal B. CHS i KUOS. 77
LETTER LXIV
drj Woodville to Seymour.
'8 it possible that my dear Seymour can be So. totally absorbed in his own felicity as to make, m entirely forget his absent, his unhappy^friend? have been above two months in London, with lit hearing from you I miss straffon’s marriage ith lord Mount Willis brought lady Woodville nd me to town.
iconfess I flattered myself that a change of bjects and a Scene of dissipation, would have [lifted me, in conquering the gloomy difease lat hangs upon my mind. Far from it, I think has rather increased my malady, by laying me nder greater restraints than I experienced at \foodfort; as all humours both of the mind and ' ody, acquire additional force if they are denied vent.
As my ill fortune would have it, we arelodg d in the Same house the marchioness lived in; nd to add to my distress, there is a picture of ers, which was not finished when she went assay, that is hung up in my dressing-room. As idy Woodville was coming to Speak to me yes: rday morning, she overheard me in earnest dis ourse with the fair shadow; she immediately etired, supposing there was Some company with northeast.
When we met at dinner, she Smiling alked me ho the lady was that came to visit me, in the lorning. I could not for Some time, conceive he meaning of her question; but when from he naivete of her discourse, I understood it, I vas all confusion, and your sister lady Sandford, sho was at table with us, gave me a look, that
perfectly
7» 1 Jtin onnic A JL ois i kilhs. |
perfectly convinced me stie was acquainted with I my folly. j
The inhuman marchioness must have revealed my weakness to her— — could not betray his friend! Yet may I not from hence deduce a kind of tacit compliment to myself, by fupposing she must have been vain of her conquest, when she proclaimed it? weak consolation!! a drowning wretch, I catch at rushes!
Why, why can I not tear her fatal image from ray breaking heart I have you Seen her Seymour? It is a thousand years Since I beheld her — Have age and ugliness yet overtaken her, or is she lovely still? Excuse my raving — such I know, it will appear to you.
I KNOW not whether I told you that lady Woodville had presented me with a Son, before we left the country, and appears, if possible, (lill more amiable in the character of a mother, than before she was one. — I rejoice to think that her being a parent has added to her happiness, as well as her merit. Our virtue and our felicity are both increased, by the dissusion of our affections. — What a wretch am I then, Seymour, who feel all mine concentered in one object, where they must rest for ever?
This reflection on myself is too Severe, nay most unjust! for I declare, that I am sensible of the utmost tenderness, for the lovely, the unofl sending lady Woodville; and I would die rather than render her unhappy — At the Same instant! adore the cruel, insolent, ungrateful marchioness. What tortures must arise, from such a state of contradiction!
I AM truly impatient to know whether you have prevailed with your fair vesta 1, to renounce her vows, and enter once again into this world of
cares? Be assured I am Sincerely interested in
every
  79
ivery thing that relates to you; and this, the noft momentous point of your life, is of the itmost consequence
To your ever affectionate
Woodville.
LETTER LXV
Seymour to Woodville.
t
1|^ E S, Woodville, I confess it, I have been X absorbed, entranced in the most delightful eluston that ever lull’d the restless heart of man I have passed three months in paradise!! thought
ot of the world, nor of its cares ^ 1 even
Fudged the hours which nature claimed for rest, lay robbed me of my charlotte’s tuneful voice lough her loved form oft vistted my slumbers.
But the gay visson is now flown, and I indeed wake as from a dream!
You may fuppose I reached Belleveue in as
lort a Space of time as it was possible. my
sharlotte was prepared to meet rae. At our first iterview, through all the agonising joy I felt, perceived a steady calmness in her manner, lat Spoke the tender the indulgent friend, not le fond mistress: : gravity of her dress added ignity to her deportment, and awed even my irnultuous wishes into silence. I looked up to er, as to a Superior being; and felt myself row little in her sight. She took advantage of ly first impressions, and spoke to me in the fol iwing manner.
You see before you, sir, the happiest of her : X now first permitted to indulge those fond
; nfalions, which nature plants in every human
heart.
to
heart, filial, and Sisterly affection. — I will confess myself still farther gratified by feeing you, the only object of a passion, which took its rise in youth and innocence, but which has long Since matured into the firmest friendship, and rendered you — pardon me, my father! thefirft, the constant object of my prayers.
But let not the fond wishes of a Aether, or your own desires, tempt you to think that aught on earth can move me to exchange the state of tranquil happiness, I now enjoy for any other less pure, and more precarious. My vows were heard in heaven; they passed not forth from feigning or forced lips; for in the very moment I pronounced the words, my heart assented to the pious sounds, nor would I then have changed my situation, even to be lord Seymour’* wife.
Nor do I now repent the choice I made, though fully Satisfied both of your worth and love. Providence Seemed to have planted insuperable bars between us, at the Sad hour when I fixed my purpose to renounce the world; and my then torn heart found its Sole peace in my humble acquiescence to his will.
Now mark me, Henry, this is the last time that I shall ever Speak upon the Subject, and itii in order to Save your heart the pain of fruitless Solicitation, thatl explain my resolution. Should his holiness be prevailed upon, by my father’s entreaties, to grant me the indulgence he ha: requested, thus far I will, on my part, comph with the general’s desire— — will Spend one, tw( or three months, with him in this house, whenever he shall command me; but my place of residence must be the convent.' — There I have fwon to live, and there I mean to die.
There:
  8i
There was Something so commanding and determined in charlotte’s voice and manner, even while she denounced a Sentence So Severe, that neither her brother who was present, nor I, attempted once to interrupt her. When she had finished, I found my heart Subdued, and ready to Sacrifice its very wish to whatever Seemed most conducive to her happiness. I was, alas j the fatal cause of the vows she had made, how then should I dare to Solicit the breach of them!
Truth, Woodville, flashes conviction, even upon our passions, as Swift as light obtrudes upon the eyes. I instantly felt the delicate impossibility of her being happy in the world, and as quickly resolved never to importune her to be wretched. It was not however without the sincerest regret, that I beheld my most Sanguine hopes of happiness vanish once more into air.
She received my accjuiescence with her determination, as the highest mark of my affection, and told me that she now considered me in a light, where the tenderest regard for my welfare was compatible with her duty; and that henceforward she could know no difference in her affection for captain Beaumont and lord Seymour.
From that time, Woodville, our days have been Spent in the most delightful intercourse, and have stolen away almost unperceived by me. charlotte’s voice, which was ever charming, is now So highly improved, that no melody on earth can equal it. The good old general, who absolutely adores her, is frequently melted into tears while she Sings; and upon all occasions gazes on her with a look of repentant Sorrow and delight, as if conscious of the injury he ha done to the world, by robbing it of Such an ornament;
s2
nament; while her cliarming countenance is lighted up with the animated looks of filial love.
She has prevailed on the general, to be reconciled to his youngest daughter and her husband. He has obtained the young man’s release, and is to purchase him a commission immediately. As soon as that can be effected they will come here, and Charlotte will again retire into theconventi how do I dread the fatal hour of Separation! and blush to think that even charlotte’s mind should be sofar Superior to my own I
Within these few days she has frequently mentioned her going to Paris, with a look and manner almost expressive of impatience, yet chastened by the pain she sees it gives her father, brother and the unhappy Seymour. Must she again be torn from my fond eyes! Have I net Sacrificed my wishes tosher will, and will she rob me of the last Sole delight of Sometimes gazing on her?
Her brother tried to prevail on her to let m visit her at the convent, but she peremptorily refused; nor will she even consent to See him, except on particular bufiness. Her father is the only person she will admit within those walls. — This is a self impofed restraint, for the abbess is perfectly inclined to grant her every indulgence she can ask.
I KNOW nothing of the marchioness, Ransford, nor any other person at Paris. I shall certainly accompany Charlotte thither; and when there, shall acquaint you with every thirg I hear about them. I am truly concerned that your infatuation for that worthless woman should still continue — O Woodville I had you lost Such a treasure, as I have, and by your own fault
f.oo, what would your situation have been 1 I
will
  83
ill think of my miseries no more — but en avour to enjoy the Small portion of happiness at yet remains for me.
I CONORATULATE you on being a father — may that tender tie awaken every pleastng nsation in your mind, and restore your heart the amiable lady Woodville, who only can iferve it!
Direct your next so the hotel de, at
aris i and till I arrive there
Adieu.
Seymour.
LETTER LXVI
Drd’woodville to Lord Seymour.
3NCE more returned to woodfort’s peaceful shades, escaped from crowds and noise, to entle converse, and the Sweet music of my vo al woods; yet can I not enjoy the pleastng : enei have So much longed for — the cause of ly coming hither embitters the Satisfaction I oped to find in being here. My Emily is in a ad state of health, occastoned as her physicians hink, by the foggy air and hurry of London, But, O Seymour! to you I will confess the ecret woundings of my troubled soul. 1 fear hat Sorrow preys upon her tender heart; for rom the tiny of our being at York, I have fre [uently imagined her mind was distressed; but vhenever she Seemed to perceive that idea rising njmy thought, she has instantly banished it, by iffuming an air of chearfulness and vivacity; and ihe transition was made with Such amz, ing ease,
that
§4
that I thought it impossible she should be insincere, and that the gloomy medium of ray own reflections, and not hers, had tinctured her appearance with an air of Sorrow. Can it be possible, Seymour, that a creature so young and innocent as lady Woodville, can be capable of disguising her Sentiments, and hiding her grief in smiles!
I BEGIN to fear that women are our Superiors in everything. If she has perceived my passion for the marchioness, and concealed the anguish, which Such a discovery must occaston to a heart like hers, for well I know she fondly loves me, the story of the Spartan boy would no longer be repeated; but lady Woodville be henceforth con stdered as the first example of human fortitude — In what a light then must her lord appear 1 I cannot bear the thought.
When the physicians first attended her, they advised her Setting out immediately for the South of France, but she refused to go, with a more determined air and manner, than I had ever seen her assume before. I imagined her dislike arose from the thought of being Separated from her fon, and immediately assured her that he should go with us. She thanked me for my condefcension, but said it had only removed one of her objections, and that not the strongest.
Then, with a tear just starting from her eye, she entreated that I would not press her farther, 1 kissed away the pearly fugitive, as it stole down her cheeks, which was instantly lighted up, by the Soft glow of joy and modesty. — She told me, then, she wished to return to Woodfort, and, if I pleased, she would go to Bristol when the Season came on.
I acquiesced in everything she desired; and would at that instant, as I would at this,
have
  85
ive laid down my life to procure her health and ippiness. We Set out immediately for this ace. — For the first three or four days I thought; r better; since that I too plainly perceive that e declines.
If she should die, Seymour, I shall confider yfelf as her murderer. Surely you would then V low me the painful preeminence of wuetched: fs, and acknowledge your situation, when com ired to mine, to he like beds of roses to the rack.
I no! it must not be — she shall pot die.
I NEVER was So impatient for any asra, as for le month of June. — I have great hopes from the iot wells, my emily’s youth, and naturally good mstitution.
I HAD not the least expectation that your harlotte would have been prevailed on to quit le convent; indeed I Scarcely hoped that she old have condescended as far as she has done, y consenting to Spend a portion of every year at ellevelie. Happy Seymour I to have Such a ibject for expectation before you. — It is Surely northeast of the highest degrees of human felicity to )ok forward with hope.
You will pardon me if I think there is Some unt trait of the coquette in her refusing to see ou at the convent. She certainly wishes to eep your flame alive; and as she does not mean 0 seed it with anything more Substantial than er conversation, she wisely thinks, that that, ike all other enjoyments, might possibly pall ipon the taste if too often repeated.
She has therefore enjoined you a long fast, in •rder to heighten your relish for the “feast of eafon.” You, I dare say, as a still passionate over, may probably think this little ruse d.amour innecessary; but I am firmly persuaded, that
atshnence
86
abstinence will enhance the value of our mental, as well as corporeal pleasures.
A SERVANT has just informed me that lady
Woodville is ready to ride out. — I attend heron horseback every day.
Adieu, my friend,
Woodville.
\
P. S. I hope this will be a letter of credit for me in your books, as I have not once drawn ufv on your patience, by mentioning the marchioness— — generous then, my dear Seymour, and reward my self-denying virtue.
LETTER lxvn.
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville.
My dear Woodville,
I HAVE made an exchange directly opposite to yours, having just quitted the Sweet Scenes of Belleveiie, and my charlotte’s delightful converse, for the irksome crowds and noise of this great city.
The young musqueteer and his lady arrived at general beaumont’s, about a fortnight ago. Charlotte had fixed the time of her return to the convent, for the tenth day after they came, but her sister, madame de Carignon, being taken violently ill, made her postpone her journey, and made me hasten mine
From the time that Maria complained, Charlotte never quitted her apartment. — Belleveiie became a desart to me, and I fancied I should see less regret, at being Separated from her by distance than accident. — But the effects are the same
  87
the cause what it may; for there is no place or lation that can afford me happiness in her ab
ce. ■
Sou treat Charlotte very Severely, nay un ly, by charging the highest proof of her de te affection to the account of coquetry. She
00 sensible not to perceive that my passion for renders me unhappy, and she, though vainly,
; ers herself, that time and absence may effect lire.
Shis she in confidence declared to captain lumont, when pressed by him to receive my ts. — Alas! she little knows I would not nge my malady for health; and yet I wilt form to her prescription, and drink the bitter jght without a murhiur. O Woodville! m we truly love, it is our highest transpert to
y!,
Am truly concerned for the account you give ady Woodville, but find a Secret consolation her sufferings in your Sensibility, as I am al
1 certain that your tenderness properly exerted ards her, will restore both her health and piness. — I dare not trust myself with a doubt
our conduct upon this occaston. —
THINK nothing can be plainer than her wledge of your attachment to the marchioness. ler positive refusal of going to France marks
00 strongly. Woodville, I fear — but I will reproach you — your own generous heart must
1 you too Severely. ^
HAVE this moment received a letter from ain Beaumont. — Madame de carignon’s dif: r appears to be the Smallpox; and as she is tyfar advanced in her pregnancy, they think life in danger. What has been gained by ing her fly from that disease a few months
I I
OL. IL M But I
I
J
I
!
a..

88
But I have not tirrie now to moralise. I shall send off a physician immediately, andftiall follow him myself in a few hours; my Charlotte muss: want consolation, and is at the Same time, the only person capable of administering it to her unhappy father.
Yours ever,
Seymour.
f
P. S. I should give you credit for not mentioning the marchioness in your letter, if I had not heard that ladies and lovers generally postponed their most material business to their postscripts. ■be that as it may, I can only tell you, the marchioness and her Caro Spojo are in this town; but where I know not. Captain Barnard and lady Ransford are also here.
I
4
w w UT tm t*r t*r tir w w t#r Tif oir ■ar TJT w
LETTER LXVIII
lcrj Woodville to Seymour. Dear Seymour,
Lady Woodville is much better — Sir John and lady Straffon, lord and lady Mount Willis, have been herethis fortnight— — polite chearfulness of their Society, has I believe been of infinite Service to Emily; but I still flatter myself that my attention and tenderness have contributed more to her recovery than anything elfe.
I HAVE now the real happiness to think, that e ■■ > ehenfion or he mind is entirely removed; I can therefc re. Scarcely doubt but that
health and peace will return together; for Dm
but
^ t
  89
t too clearly convinced, that the privation of e latter, occasioned the loss of the former.
There certainly never was a more amiable : ature, than lady Woodville — So unassuming her manners. So fearful of giving pain, that; would if possible, conceal her complaints, en from her domestics who all adore her.
Is it not amazing, Seymour, that perfectly isible as I am, of her uncommon merits, there ouldbe found a being upon earth, who holds ligher place in my affection? How falsely do flatter our understandings, who say that eem is the balls of love! if that were true, I 3uld be the happiest of men, should think no )rc of the ungrateful Isabella, should no long feel the reproaches of a wayward heart, which )uld then be entirely devoted to the charming nily.
But though I may never be able, entirely to' idicate this fatal disease from my mind, I have : at pleasure in perceiving, that the constant exion of my tenderness towards Emily, is atten 1 with the stncerest delight to myself; as it fils a duty and flatters my humanity with the a of conferring happiness upon an amiable and __
serving object.
The practice of any virtue is not so difficult we are apt to imagine — There requires nothing )re than resolution to commence. — Habit will m make it easy, if not pleasant, to us. — Yet 1 must I envy those, who have no need to uggle; and when I behold the ingenuous fond s of lord Mount Willis and Sir John Straffon,, their wives, I curse mv fate, and despise my n weakness, for having reduced me lo the itemptible necessity of feigning what they are 5py enough to feel.
Ma Wb
go
We are to return the vistts of our present
guests, in our way to Bristol. -- -- -- -- Lord Mount
Willis has a very fine seat in Somersetshire
He is a very agreeable accomplished man. His wife before her marriage, loved Sir James Miller
-- -- passionately loved him -- -- -- and yet she has
withdrawn her ill placed fondness and dotes upon her lord. Shall I be weaker, weaker than a puny girl? and shall the voice of reason always plead in vain? — I dare not reply to these mortifying queries.
I MOST sincerely pity the unhappy general de Beaumont; his misfortunes have been multiplied on him, at a time when he is least able to encounter them. There is a Spring in youth, which makes us capable of resisting almost any pressure; but when a body, which has been nursed in the Soft lap of prosperity becomes enfeebled by years, the mind also partakes of its '' enervation; and we have still less reason to expect a vigorous exertion of the mental powers, than of muscular strength at threescore.
Th e wisdom therefore, that is in general attributed to age, arises more from a privation of passion, than from experience or any other cause. As tfie nerves grow rigid, the heart is insensibly rendered callous. the exquifite fensations both of pain and pleasure, after a certain time of life are imperceptibly blunted, by each returning day; and we at last become Solely indebted to memory for informing us, that we were ever capable of feeling the extremes of joy or Sorrow.
The only passion, which nature Seems to design should remain in its full force in our dedining age, is paternal affection; and as the others subside, I should imagine that gains strength — there is a mixture too of self-love in it, which generally makes its existence equal with our own. The
objests
  91
)jects of this affection are gradually maturing, ider our fostering care; each day they make me advances towards our idea of perfections, likeness to ourselves; with anxious hopes we atch the tender bud,, look with delight upon # e opening blossom, and gaze enraptured on the ooming fruit — It is our own we planted, and e reared it I In this most tender point, then e poor old general is now wounded his armour id his breast plateuhrown astde, the barbed ar w finks into his heart.
Should madame de Carignon die, which I jpe she will not, there are abundance of good iriftians, who would immediately conclude her; ath to be a judgement on him, for his inhuman eatment of Charlotte. But I, who confess my if a finner, have not a doubt of his having al ady atoned his passive guilt, towards her by his intrition.? — You are the single person.. ipear to be injured by it, — for Fam fusty satis; d, that Charlotte is no longer unhappy.
1 HAVE philosophised and moralised upon is Subject, to the extent of my time and paper, rhaps to prevent my entering again upon ano er on which I am neither philosopher, nor oralist. — S shall therefore, sty from it by bid ngyou.
Adieu.
WOCDVILLE.
V
K ^ F. T
92
LETTER LXIX
*
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville.
. \
Dear Woodville,
/TADAME de Carignon is recovered, if ivl it can be called a recovery, for a fine young woman to Survive her beauty. — That is indeed, absolutely destroyed; but, as her huf band’s fondness Seems unabated by the loss, her homcliness may possibly become an advantage, rather than a misfortune. — Few, very few women, or men either have strength of mind sufficient to bear universal astniiration; and when that is derived from beauty alone, there is Scarce a young person who thinks it necessary to attain any other qualification or accomplishment, that does not tend to the embellishment of their charms.
I HAVE observed through use, that wefeldora meet with an agreeable man or woman, who have been remarkably handsome. But perhaps, this may be philosophically accounted for — As Providence acts by the Simplest means, and beauty is alone Sufficient to procure the love and admiration of mankind, great qualities would be necessary to the purpose, and perhaps mar the original design; for we should be more apt to fear liian love a human hfingy that we considered as absolutely perfect.
I THEREFORE think with Milton, that where there * is bestowed too much of ornament, in * outward show elaborate, the inward’s less exact; ’ which may be a kind of consolation to those, whom nature has dealt her personal favours to, with a Scanty hand.
In
t
... ^
  93
In the country where I am at present, neither youth or beauty are of much value. The grandmother and granddaughter are pretty much upon the Same footing. -- What little difference
there may be is generally in the dowager’s favour; _ as she jmay probably be possessed of more knowledge and experience and a better fortune. — No woman is ever young or old at Paris; for the same paint that fills up the furrows of the aged cheek, hides the Soft down upon the youthful one.
You See that a word to the wise is enough, and that I have followed your plan of philolo phizing, upon indifferent Subjects, to avoid recurring to painful ones. 1 mull: however acquaint
you, that I am to attend Charlotte to Paris, in three days. She has insisted on my returning to England,, as soon as she enters the cloister; and I have consented, on her promising to meet rne here next Spring, provided the general be then living.
The poor old man has insisted on captain beaumont’s quitting the army, and taking pof fellion of his fortune, except a Small annoity, which he reserves for charitable uses. He has behaved nobly to monsieur and madame de ca rignon, and presented twenty thousand crowns to the convent of St. Anthony, as a reward for their kindnesses to his beloved Charlotte. You would pity him sincerely, if you were to behold his distress at the idea of parting with his favourite child; but
“What are, alas! his woes compared to mine!’,
M 4 Adieu,
94
Adieu, my friend; if I were capable of ioy I should feel it for lady woodville’s recovery! I shall write to you from Paris; and am
Ever your’s,
Seymour,
\
letter LXX
#
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodvilh,
I
Paris.
I HAVE once more bid adieu to my dear Charlotte. — But painful as the hour of fepara i tion was, the recollection of what I had former ly endured, from her entrance into the convent, with the fond hope of our re meeting in a few months, have abated its anguish; and Some very extraordinary accidents, which have happened within these few hours, have taken up my whole attention, and carried me, as it were, outofrny self.
The count de Clerembaut, for whom you know I have a Sincere friendship, came to see me yesterday morning. — He told me he was just come from the tennis court, where there had been a very warm brouilleriehetv/etn two Englilli gentlemen. One of their names, he Said, was Ransford, who quitted the field to his antagonist, but with a look and manner, that Seemed tofaji he was determined to meet him elsewhere.
1 WAS alarmed at this account, and immediately ordered my chariot, and drove to the marchi>
oness’s. Ransford was not at home.. -- 1 came
back to my hotel, and wrote to him; expatiated on the ill consequences of fighting a duel in Palis; begged him to defier his resentments, till hii
opponent,
  95
* V
nponent, whom I understood to be an english lan, and he should meet in their own country; ut if he should be So circumstanced, as to be nder a necessity of rejecting my advice, I oped he would at least accept of my Service a attend him to the field, or command me in whatever way he thought proper.
In about three hours I received the following nfwer.
\
Lo Seymour.
** K/iy dear Lord,
“I AM. truly thankful for your kind attention ome; but L am at present too far embarked to ecede; and even your admonition must there bre come too late. Let the consequence be what it will, I cannot think of heightening ny distress, by involving you in it. But I have i much more material act of friendship to implore rom you. — The marchioness will stand in need if your protection. — I need Say no more — hasten lo her; the affair will be over, before you receive this. I have the Satisfaction to think tha^ captain Barnard deserves his fate if tfie should [ail by my hand, as he has this day added fresh insult to former injury.
Adieu, perhaps for ever,
William Ransford.’^
I INSTANTLY, ran, OF rather flew to the marchioness, whom I found waiting dinner for Mr, Ransford — She Seemed Surprised at my entrance, as she had heard that I had been there in the morning. — The anxiety of my countenance became contagious; and she inquired with the greatest earnestness, if I knew anything about Mr. Ransford? before I could frame a reply, the lieutenant de Police was on the stairs, and I
M 5 rush^i
9h
rushed out of the room to prevent his cottiino into it. He passed me by and entered. — She did not appear to be alarmed.
It seems there is a lawsuit between her and her late hushand’s heir, for part of her jointure; and she, 1 Suppose, concluded that he came to execute Some order of court relative to that ‘ affair. But long before he could fully explain the real motives of his coming, she ceased lo hear, and had Sunk motionless upon the sofa where she sat.
The lieutenant and his myrmidons took pof fcssion of everything au mm du roiy and allured us that diligent Search would be made for the murderer. I entreated him to leave the unhappy lady’s apartment to herself, and that I would be answerable for everything in it. He retired with infinite politeness, which is the best Substitute to humanity; and in this country, which abounds with show and delusion is frequently mistaken for it.
As the marchioness is five months gone with child, it was thought proper to have her blooded. — Every possible care has been and shall be taken of her. She is distressingly grateful for mj Smalt attentions towards her. But a mind subdued by assiiotion is apt to overrate every little mark of kindness.
This unhappy affair wdll detain me here for
Some time longer. -- -- 1 will not quit the post of
guardian to the afflicted fair, till I resign her into ransferd’s hands. You shall daily hear from me. Adieu.
Seymour.
/
4
4
i
LET
»
V t ■
 97
'<
LETTER LXXI
drj Seymour to Lord Woodville. ^ESTERDAY passed away in forming me
JL lancholy conjectures on the recent cause of juiirrel between captain Barnard and Mr. rans ord; in intermediate ideas, whither he would lend his course, and in listening to various re )orts which were variousty repeated by the fiends, acquaintance, and Servants of the un lappy combatants.
We had however the Satisfaction to discover, hat Ransford had made Some provision for his Escape, as he had converted above three hundred )ounds into post bills the morning of the duel, nd had ordered a Swiss Servant who has lived nth him for five years, and is remarkably at ached to him, to attend at a particular place nth a couple of the fleetest horses he could hire, r purchase. From hence I conclude he will tavel to Switzerland, and take up his abode at lerne, till he can return with honour and Safety nto England.
You will perhaps Say why at that particular lace more than any other? I grant the idea is Drmed upon a vague conjecture; but Andre was orn at Berne, and the Swiss are of all nations, be Scotch not excepted, the most Smitten with lie love of their country. ransford’s mind lust be unhinged by this accident, torn roni its props, and ready to recline itself on the rst friendly stay that will Support it. The ho est Swiss looks back with transport * on those arren hills where first his mind found joy, his ody strength; and leads his master there to
share.
9^
share the gifts which he received from nature, and the Soil. I say he will not Slop till he arrives at Berne.
he marchioness does not agree with my opinion; she thinks Brussels, Holland, Italy, nay England, more agreeable. That is, stie could like to fix her residence, in any of those places, rather than at Berne. — They are all equal to me, except England, where I am pretty Sure he will not po.
T HERE were too Sealed letters found in captain barnard’s pocket, the one addressed to kdy Ransford, the other to the 'man who killed him. I will wait upon her ladyship tomorrow to obtain the latter; it must; certainly throw Some extraordinary light upon the .affair.
I HAD written So far when I received a Sammons from the marchioness to attend instantly. A thousand apprehensions crowded on my mind; I feared Ransford might not have escaped, and I knew the vindictive Spirit of his stepmother too; well to hope that she would not prosecute. f found the marchioness in a state little short of madness— — expressions were Such as made me rather festr than feel — hct* eyes darted fire, and she traversed the circumference of her dresllng room, with the air and pace of distraction: ft? Seemed to be unsexed.
Where is he, itiadam? Said I. Let me fly to him and try what gold can do, to purchase his enlargement. This must be our only resource: let them take it all. Said she, but let me go — a letire de cachet t no monarch, nor no minister dire sign it — I will sty to Versailles— — is already granted, and you See me a prisoner at this nie ment — dare you refeue me?
Amazement took away the power of Speech; I did not understand her, it was irapostible I
should
  99
should— — that instant, a person of a very gentlemanlike and engaging appearance, entered the chamber. — He Seemed to be astonished at her beauty, and perturbation, and gazed, for an instant, first at her, and then at me — at last. Seeming to recollect himself, he addressed me in the following words.
I AM Sorry your indiscretion has permitted our meeting, Sir. — It is true I have received no particular information against you; you are, therefore, at liberty to depart; which I beg you will do instantly, as you cannot be Safe in this house a Single moment.
I IMMEDIATELY pcrceived he had mistaken me for Mr. Ransford, and readily accepting all the good will he had shown to my friend’s unhappy situation, returned him thanks for his intended humanity, and assured him of my gratitude, for a favour, which I did not stand in need, of. He blushed at his mistake, and Said that he had been twelve years in office, and had never exceeded his commission, but in that way. Strange, that a man should blush, that had been twelve years in Such an office?
He then explained his business. — He had ft leitre de cachet against madame, which the marquis de St. Aumont, her hushand’s nephew, had obtained, to prevent her quitting the kingdom till the Suit between them should be determined.
Her rage is not to he described; she accused the laws of injustice, and its officers of insolence, and cruelty. Alked to what prison a peeress should be led, and whether she was to be handcuffed like a malefactor? to all this intemperate language, the officer replied with great calmness, that her ladyship might put an end to her distress, by giving Security to the court for her stay in Paria. She told, him she would not stay for all
the
9
loo
the courts in Europe. He then said Something in a low voice, about her being confined.
She had Sent for her lawyer, who arrived critically, and prevailed on her, at last, to pafs her word jointly with us, that she would not quit Paris, without leave of the court, which he laid he would apply for the next day.
The agitation of her Spirits now subsiding, she fell into violent passions of tears; bewailed her fate, and said she was the most wretched of human beings. I fear she has more reason to think So than she is yet acquainted with. For after she withdrew to her chamber, her lawyer, at my request, explained the nature of the process against her, and assured me that the late marquis de St. Aumont, had no power over those lands, which he Settled on her for a jointure; that he was, therefore, very glad to find she was married to an English gentleman of fortune, as he had great reason to believe the cause would go against her. — That he feared she was extremely in debt, and that all her personalities were already forfeited to the crown, as being the Supposed property of Mr. Ransford. What a Scene of distress, Woodville! and what will become of this unhappy pair?
Before I left the house, the marchioness sent for her lawyer into her chamber. — I took that opportunity of retiring to write to you, and shall now close this melancholy narrative with wishing you good night. Seymour.
LETTER LXXII
Lord Seymour to Lord Wo odville.
Dear Woodville,
Both my mind and body are so extremely
harassed, that I am Scarce able to give you
an
  loi
an account of the distresses in which I am involved.
Just as I had Sealed my last letter to you, I received a billet from captain Beaumont, to inform me, that the general and he were that moment arrived at Paris, and that their coming was occasioned by a very alarming account they had received of my ever dear charlotte’s being extremely indisposed.
I FLEW directly to the general’s house, and found the poor oldman finking under the double weight of years and Sorrow. He showed me the abbess’s letter to him, which Said, “that from “the time of charlotte’s return into the convent, “a fever had preyed upon her Spirits; that she “had concealed her illness for Several days, and “even made light of it when it was too visible“ “she was now reduced to Such a state of “weakness, that the physicians had declared me“ “could be of no use to her, and that an “immediate change of air was the only chance “she had for life”
No words can express what I felt on reading this letter; yet will I candidly confess, that her father’s anguish Seemed to surpass even mine. He called himself her murderer! and said if she should die, he never could have hopes of mercy or Salvation. — Alas I am I not guilty as himself I My fatal rashness made her take those vows, which her fond love for me, in any other cafe, would have rejected!
The general determined to remove Charlotte out of the convent the next day, and convey her as far out of Paris as her strength would permit. He entreated me to accompany them, in their melancholy and stow progress to Belleveiie. Judge of my distress, at being obliged to refuse! But my honour was passed to a wretch who has none —
the
102
the marchioness— — Beaumont promised to. bring me a faithful account of his sister’s Situation in the morning, and I retired home — not to rest.
Captain Beaumont was punctual to his word; he came to me before eight o’clock, and told me that hie father and he had Seen Charlotte, and found her in a very weak state; that she had consented to Set out with them for Belleveiie, but that he did not believe they should be able to carry her farther than three or four leagues that day, and entreated me to go with them. I readily consented, and determined that I would return to Paris that night, as Soon as ever Charlotte should retire to bed.
The captain and I agreed to meet, at thege nerass house, at eleven o’clock, to follow our fair fugitive, who was to Set out with her father from the convent. He told me that Charlotte had made a thousand tender inquiries, about my health; that she rejoiced at my being still in Paris, and Seemed delighted at the thought of feeing me that day. I needed not these new proofs of her regard to increase my ardour for her; my Soul was on the wing to meet her, yet still the claims of friendship were not unheard.
I RESOLVED to go immediately to lady ranf ford, for the letter that was addressed to her step son, and found in barnard’s pocket. Then to wait on the marchionefsy and make my ex cuse for absenting myself from her the remainder of that day : but though she had left Paris, it was fated, that I should not quit it for Some time.
As I was coming out of my apartment, I was met by the lieutenant de police, who arrested me
an accomplice with the marchioness, in having
defrauded
%
%
i
  103
defrauded his majesty, by conveying away her most valuable effects, which were confiscated to his use, and having fled herself, though under an arret. — Never was astonishment greater than mine.
In vain I pleaded my ignorance of the fact, or the innocence of my intentions, or offered to give ample Security for those effects, which had been Secreted by that mean, that worthless woman! The officer told me he was not quite Such an idiot, as the person who had taken my word before, and that no argument I could urge, would have the least weight with him.
As the last and most prevailing rhetoric I offered him my purse, if he would go with me to general beaumont’s, and take his bail for my appearance the next day; but he withstood my gold, and even refused to let me return into my apartment, to write an apology for not attending my beloved Charlotte.
This was the first time, I had ever felt
the insolence of office.” — I Submitted to it, though reluctantly, and was immediately conveyed to the Chatelet. — I Sent off a Servant to captain Beaumont, to desire him to come to me; but as Soon as I was lodged in prison, I was informed that no person would be admitted to see me, as they cormdered me as a delinquent of state.
I THEN demanded to be confronted with my accusers, and brought before a judge. They Smiled at my ignorance, and told me, that as I was not in England, I must Submit to their laws, which were not quite So expeditious as ours, and that patience would be my best resource for the present.,
Though my temper is naturally gentle, and my passions have been, long Subdued by affliction.
104
IP _ • — *
It was with difficulty I could command my rage — yet on whom should I vent it? on wretches brazed by custom to the wild ravings of resentment, or the Soft plaints Of Sorrow!
"As Soon as I was capable of reasoning with
myself, I considered that a confcioufness of my own integrity ought to Support me under the disagreeable circumstances I was involved in by another’s fault; and am certain it vmuld have dene So, had I not been disappointed of the painful pleasure of Seeing the lovely, languid Charlotte 1 I lamented the uneasiness which Ihe must feel from hearing of my confinement, unknowing of the cause;; the apprehension of her thinking me guilty of Some criminal action, and her Suffering from that thought, almost distracted me. I cursed the marchioness a thousand times. — — Yes, Woodville, from my heart I cursed her. Bane of your happiness! disturber now of mine!
When I grew a little calm, I desired to See the keeper'of the prison, as I wanted to know whether I was at liberty to write to the Englilli ambassador, who I knew was then at Versailles and to the rest of my friends. The governor du Chatelet, was immediately announced, and on his entering, my eye was struck with the most graceful figure and engaging countenance, I had ever Seen. He Seemed to be turned of fifty, but had Such a softness of features and complexion, as is rarely to be met with but in extreme youth. His appearance filled me with Surprise; I was amazed that Such a man should be capable of Such an office, which I Supposed could only be Suited to the most insenfible, or brutal natures.
His conversation was as pleasing as his^per fon; he readily assented to my request, and laid he would take care that my letters should be delivered.
  105
livered. He then gave orders that my own Servants should be permitted to attend rne, and that any person whom I desired to See, should be immediately admitted. I thanked him for his humanity, in removing every unnecessary restraint, and assured him I should make no other use of his indulgence, than that of endeavouring to procure my liberty, by the most legal means.
He encreased my astonishment, by replying to me, in English, that he could not have any ioubts of lord seymour’s honour; and that he hoped I would do him and his family the favour : o dine with them, and allow them as much of ny company as was convenient to me, while I emained in the Chatelet.
My curiosity to know Something more of his. amily, made me accept his invitation; though leaven knows how little inclined to mix with hangers, or enter into any plan of dissipation,
’ have written to the ambassador and to my lear Charlotte. By removing her anxiety I lave lessened my own.
I AM not apprehensive that my confinement : an last many hours; I will therefore endeavour 0 keep up my Spirits, with the fond hopes of lying to my Charlotte, the moment I am re eased. In the mean time, I attend the gover lor’s Summons to dinner, and for the present lid my dear Woodville
Adieu,
your’s. I
i
'Seymour.
(
J
I
P. S. What is the reason that I do not hear rom you? whilst at liberty, I regretted, but in '
ny confinement shall lament your silence. My iffectionate compliments to lady Woodville. 1
j:
LETI
i
»

io
LETTER lxxiil.
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville.
“Hope travels thro’, nor quits us till we die.”
And without that charming companion, I
think I should not now Survive to tell my
dear Woodville, that I am just released from a
confinement of fifteen tedious days. But let me be methodical in my relation. ~no, it is impossible
! my charriot waits to carry me to bel leveiie, to my adored Charlotte! She is better, I am happy, and most sincerely your’s.
Seymour.
LETTER LXXIV
%
Seymour to Lord Woodville.
4
Belleveue.
CHARLOTTE recovers daily; my fears for her precious life are abated. Your Silence now alarms me. — Why, must I never be free from apprehensions, for those I truly love? But I will, for the present, indulge your impatience, and restrain my own.
On the first day of my confinement, I was shown into the governor’s apartment, which was elegantly furnished, and received him and his lady, with the utmost politeness. She was Surrounded by five beautisul children the eldest a girl about Sixteen. I will confess it, Woodville! my eyes were inserrfibly riveted to this
young creature’s lovely form; and for the first
time
J
ltlej U n. jl»io ijxh.00. 107
le of my life, my heart received a delight, m gazing on the charms of another woman, fides Charlotte!
I DID not long indulge the dangerous plea e, without calling the wanderer to account, d Soon perceived that the fair maria’s chief faction was owing to her remarkable likeness my Charlotte. This observation quieted my uples, and left me the innocent Satisfaction of miring her beauty, with a brother’s eye. Yet
II my curiosity was increased by the resera mce; and as Soon as I was left alone with e governor, I took the liberty of alking him he was related to general Beaumont?
He answered no; but Said his wife was stster the late madame de Beaumont, though much ilike her both in mind and person; that he uld well allow madame D’angueville inferior respect of beauty, but that her understanding id heart were fraught with every charm and rtue, that could adorn a woman.
I ASKED him had he never seen his niece harlotte Beaumont? he answered with an hoist warmth, yes Sir, when it was too late to ache her happy, or reward your merit — would heaven I had known her sooner! I bowed and anked him, even for fruitless wishes, id for a time forgot my being a priso*
: r, from the delight I felt at being with one ho knew and loved my Charlotte.
w
We became totally unreserved; and thego
; rnor informed me, that he was^of the N -- -- -- -- |
mily, descended from one of those infatuated len, who had Sacrificed their fortunes, and re dunced their country to Serve a weak and orthlcss prince, who had neither inclination or ower to reward their attachment.
He
I t'
I
\
I
108 J HE DELICATE DISTRESS.
He told me that his father had died of a broken heart, while he was but a child; that his friends had with difficulty obtained him a commission in the Irish brigade, where he had Served above twenty years without arriving to the rank of captain; and that he might still have remained in that Situation, but that general Beaumont, by his interest, had procured him the post he then enjoyed, when he and his family had been reduced to the greatest distress.
That he hoped he had acquitted himself in his office, with humanity and compassion; and by many circumstances which he related convinced me, that none but a person of a noble and generous nature, was fit to preside over the number of unfortunates, that guilt or accident impels to that gloomy mansion. Sad reflection! that those who are fittest for the charge, are most averse to accept, and least thought of for the office.
About Seven o’clock in. she evening, captain Beaumont inquired for me, and was immediately admitted. His uncle, monsieur D’angueville, had never Seen him before. — They were mutually charmed with each other. The captain told me, that as soon as my Servant acquainted him with my situation, he wrote a line to the general, to inform him of it, and Set out on the inr stant for Versailles: that he had Seen the English ambassador, who promised to wait on monsieur
le due de N -- -- -- --, the premier minister, next
morning, and obtain my release as Soon as possible.
I THANKED my generous friend for his kind attention to my interests, and passed the evening with tolerable cbearfulness. The next day,
about noon, I received a visit from Mr. S -- -- --
Secretary to our ambassador. He told me that
his excellency had been with the minister, and
desired
THE uunicalh. oislkilss. 109
; Sired that I might be Set at liberty immediately.
'hat the due de N -- had informed him it was
npossible to comply with his request:, as there as a criminal process instituted against me for ding and abetting the marchioness de St. au lont, in open violation of the laws; and the fily favour that could be indulged me, was the lowing me counsel, and bringing the affair to trial with the utmost expedition.
I ENDEAVOURED to make a virtue of necef ty, and affected to appear contented with the ery Small favour that his excellency had obtain d for me. But not to make the repetition of my onfinement as tedious to you as the time was to le, the day of trial came, and by the joint tes money of the marchionefs’s lawyer, her fer ants, and my own, I was acquitted of being oncerned in her escape, but obliged to give bail or four thousand pounds, which is the value Set ipon the jewels, plate, c. which she either arried off, or Secreted.
Thus have I been injured, in my honour, »erson, and property, by my humane attention 0 that most worthless of humankind. But no natter; and if the meanness of her conduct owards me. Sets her in the light, in which I vish you to behold her, I shall think myself iverpaid, for every injury I have Sustained on ler account.
The moment I recovered my liberty I waited 3n the ambassador, who had come to Paris, on purpose to know if he could be any way Serviceable to me. I made my acknowledgements to him, and Set out that evening with my dear and indefatigable friend, captain Beaumont, for the loved place where my heart’s treasure hy. I have already told you that I had the hapj inefs of finding her much better; and the joy which
she
no
she felt at Seeing her brother and me, has, I flatter myself, contributed to her recovery.
The marchioness’s lawyer told me he had received a letter from her, dated at Brussels, wherein she exulted at her own cleverness, in getting out of the power of the laws, and gave Some dark hints, of her not being married to Ransford. Heaven grant that this may be true! The Suit with her hushand’s nephew will go against her; and for her contempt of the arret she will be outlawed, and her whole fortune confiscated; — So that if, as I hope, she is not ransford’s wise, she may possibly be reduced to her original poverty, and meet the contempt due to her vices from all mankind.
This is the fifth letter I have written to you without receiving a line from you. I have certainly reason to apprehend that Some fatal accident hasoccafioned your Silence, for I can never doubt the Sincerity of your attachment to yours
Most truly,
Slymour.
<
^ CP ^ sle ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
LETTER LXXV
Woodville to Lady Straffon.
I
PITY me! pray; or me, my dearest Sister I for heaven but mocks my prayers! had they been heard, lord W oodville’s life had never been in danger. I arn distracted, Fanny! I would that I were. Though anguish Such as mine strains every sense, and racks my tortured brain, it will not crack! no, I am still awake to all the miseries a wretch can feel, who dotes and who despair's 1
On
f
  m
On Tuesday se’nrtight, fatal day I my lord reived a letter from lord Seymour while I was efent. I observed that he was strongly agi; ed while he read it, even to a change of coun iance and colour. I thought there must be me extraordinary cause for his emotion, which rhaps he wished to conceal from me; I there re rose Softly from my seat and attempted to. tyre.
0 Fanny! can I ever forget the look of for w which he wore when taking me by the hand : said, you must not leave me, Emily! but area painful office with your lord— — must ideavour to console poor lady Harriet for Bar, rd’s death; Ransford has killed him, and is : d from Paris.
He then turned quick away, as if to hide his ief. It could not be for Bernard that he wept; id Ransford, he as well as I, believed was fe. — O there is another cause! let me not think it, lest it divide my tears, which should all )w for him, and not for my worthless Self.
He told me he would go directly to Sir Harry ansford, to acqaint him with his son’s misfor northeast, and as he could not do it abruptly. Said it as possible he might stay to dinner there, and : gged I would take the most immediate oppor inity of informing lady Harriet of this unhap f affair. His horses were immediately ordered, id he rode off.
1 SENT for Fanny Weston to assist me in the ainful talk I had undertaken. But why do I afle a moment in thinking of any object upon )rth but one About two hours after my lord ft Woodfort, one of the Servants who had at;; him galloped into the court yard, ordered le chariot to be got ready instantly, and bid
vol. II N my
II
my woman tell me that my lord had fallen from his horse and much hurt.
I W AS Sitting in lady harriet’s dressing room when the Sound of the chariot passing hastily under tho window alarmed me. — I rang to know the cause, when a Servant pale as death, told me that my lord had met with a Sad accident. I cried where is he? and rushed out of the room. I was met by my woman on the stairs. Lady Harriet, Fanny Weston, and she, prevented my running into the highway;; poured drops and water down my throat. I knew not what they did or Said to me.
An express was Sent off for a Surgeon, who arrived in less than half an hour after my lord was brought home senseless. They would not Suffer me to See him till he had been bled and his wounds dressed. — But gracioussheaven, when I beheld : him!
Let me try to banish the idea. — Alas I I fear it will never be effaced? never, my Sister, never, unless I live to See his natural form restored to my fond wishes, and my ardent prayers!
-- -- Oh, join with me, my Eanny! in earnest
Supplication for his precious life I
The humane, the tenderhearted Surgeon, said everything that could amuse, but not dispel my fears. That his wounds, though dangerous in his poor judgement, were not mortal; but that he wished for better help than his own.
An express was dispatched for Middleton or Ranby.
I CANNOT, but I would uot if I could describe the night I pashd — my lord remained quite senseless;; state 1 yet now and then his languid eyes fixed on me. About five in the morning he fell Into a kind of a dose, and remained in that situation till near Seven, when he
awoke
  115
oke in the most violent delirium — he raved ressantly — but not of me.
In this most melancholy state has he continu
eleven days -- -** a burning fever, and a
)ken heart I” O Fanny, it is too much! but mid he recover it I never shall.
Mr. Ranby and the Surgeon who first attended ' dear lord, have both assured me that the rt which he received from his fall, could not langer his life. But neither they nor the phy lans who visit him daily, can prerend to say lat turn his fever will take. Strong opiates e been given, and at length, have taken ef l:; he steeps, my Fanny 1 while I who have ?er closed my eyes since the accident, in ge them now in their once pleastng talk of iting to my friend, riiy more than stster !• ef weighs my eyelids down, but not with the tpressure of an healthful stumber.
Adieu, adieu, my dear Fanny!
^ E. Woodville.
LETTER LXXVI
%
Straffon to Woodville,
ET not my dearest Emily condemn her / sincerely affectionate and afflicted Fanny, not having instantly replied in person to her ft affecting letter.
i), my Emily I my child! my stster! how : s my heart bleed for you! tears dim my it, and yet perhaps your eyes are dry! the ning balls fixed on your dying lord .' would 1 could weep as I do. >•
my Spirits have been rather weak .and iafi ^
N a guid
V
h4
guid Since my lying in, even while I was at Woodfort, lady Mount Willis, whole attention and tenderness to me is without bounds, prevailed upon Sir John and me to pass a few weeks with her, at a house which my lord has hired near Windsor, while his family seat is repairing. The old topics of change of air and moderate exercise were exhausted, both by Sir John and her, before I would consent.
At length I most reluctantly complied. I knew not then why I should feel reluctance; but I now begin to think with you, that our preiages should be listened to. — Would I had hearkened then to mine! I should now be with my dearest Emily, and by sharing her anguish and fatigue, perhaps, in Some degree, might lessen both — but we now must feel the Sad addition to our present miseries, of knowing that each other is unhappy.
About two hours before the post brought your letter to windsor, lord Mount Willis and Sir John Set out for his lordship’s in Oxfordshire; and while Lucy and I were Sitting at breakfast after they were gone, we heard a violent Scream. • — I knew the voice to be my little emily’s — I ran upstairs to her chamber, without recollest ing that she had been Some time dressed, and playing with the house keeper’s daughter, a child of her own age, in the garden.
Lady Mount Willis followed the sound, and found my poor little angel lying on the ground with her leg broken, the only words she Spoke were “Do not let my mama be frighted, ” and fainted quite away.
In this condition she was brought into the
iiouse; I will not attempt to describe mine.
Your Situation is by far more dreadful, yet Sure
it was a Scene of deep distress. Suffice it now
to Say that the moment she is out of danger, 1
will
V
  115
ill sty to share or alleviate my dearest emily’s miction. The fond, the tender claims of child nd Sister, now divide my heart — it almost reaks that I must say Adieu,
F. Straffon.
ir “ar Tp t*f TJT w Ttr w w t*r T Tjp w
LETTER LXXVII
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
My dearest Fanny,
rhls is the one and twentieth day of my lord’s illness; and on this day, be it for jver blessed by me! the physicians have observed i change in his disorder, attended with many avourable Symptoms that gave hopes of lite. He lay for many days in a state of infenstbility, bad ceased to rave, and hardly moved his limbs.
At eleven o’clock this morning he Sighed extremely; O Fanny! those Sad stghs too long have pierced my heart!’ then Seemed to wake as from a trance. The first object he took notic® cf was me, and with a languid voice he Said, my Emily, have you Sat up all night? O go to bed, my love. Then closed his eyes and fell into a little stumber.
I COULD not answer him, tears came to my relief and drowned rny utterance. .Yes, Fanny, I have wept most bitterly, and my poor heart k much relieved. Doctor Fenton infists on bleeding me immediately. I know he thinks that I have caught the fever from my lord; blessed contagion; may it not, Fanny, lighten his disease?? I not die to lessen or remove his heartfelt pains! but I much fear that even my death would not now heal ssis griefs-
-- is another’s; and never can be his.
N 3 I fear
ii
— I fear I rave, my thoughts are wild; I do not wish that you should comprehend them.
Your poor, dear emily!! hope she will recover. — A broken limb is dreadful! but a broken heart worse!! Snatch away the pen. Well! well! I will be blooded. Aye, and I will go to bed j my limbs no longer can Support my weight.
Farewell, my Fanny.
E. W.
LETTER LXXVIII
m/yi Weston to Lady Straffon.
My dear Lady Straffon,
I KNOW not how to acquaint you with the additional misfortune that is fallen upon us all, Our dear lady Woodville lie dangerously ill of a fever. dviy heart almost breaks while I tell you, that the physicians have but little hopes of her life. During the first one and twenty days of her lord’s illness, she never left his chamber, nor could even be prevailed upon to rest herself, except for a few minutes, wiien quite exhau(led on a couch.
What Surprised lady Harriet and me moll was that she never shed a tear, till lord Woodville first recovered his reason and Spoke to her, T he Servants who attended in his chamber have told me, that while he remained insenfible, Ihe used frequently to lay her cheek upon the pillow, and kifs his poor parched lips, as if she wished to catch the fever from him. O, madam! why were you not here to Save her precious life?
Lady Harriet and I have been So much used to look up to her with respect, as well as lore
(and
* 4
THE DRLI CATE DISTRESS. 117
(and Sure no hurhan being ever deserved them more) that we could not attempt to oppose her resolution, farther than by fruitless entreaties, though we knew it most be hurtful to herself. Lady Lawson was unfortunately gope upon a visit, into Lincolnshire, two days before my lord woodville’s accident, she returned yesterday and is almost distracted at lady woodville’s illness. But what is her’s, or any other person’s grief tq what my lord endures? no words can describe his Sorrow; and I am convinced, if she should (lie, he never will recover.
H inststed upon being taken oat of bed this day, and carried to her chamber. Doctor Fenton finding him peremptory, consented though reluctantly. Good God! what a pale and emaciated figure! Lady Woodville at first did not know him : but when he spoke to her, she started up, clasped her arms round his neck and cried out with unnatural strength I My dearest lord! this, this is kind 1 she shall not part us now! yes, we will go together; indeed I will not stay for anything on earth; no not for Uttls Marry!
hir Spirits became quite exhausted at these words, and she Sunk down in a flood of tears. We thought lord Woodville would have expired on the instant. He fainted and was carried back to his chamber in that situation. This was the first time that lady Woodville had mentioned child since my lord’s illness.
The Doctor thinks it a good Symptom, and would have the little cherubim brought into her sight — but who can answer for the consequence if he should catch the fever from her. Ht this moment, she steeps, and lady lawson is determined to make the experiment, as Soon as she awakes. — God grant it may Succeed.
N 4 I HOPE
Ti
I HOPE my little cousin has got the better of tier accident, and that I shall not hear from, but See you as Soon as possible, I Send this by a Special messenger, and shall write every day till you come, I am dear lady Straffon,
Your afflicted and affectionate,
F. Weston.
LETTER LXXIX
s
Lady Straffon to AS Weston.
OF A NN Y! humbled in the dust by the
almighty’s chastening hand, I strive in vain, to bow my heart to his all wise decrees, and bless the arrow that inflicts the wound!
Ho w have I vainly vaunted my own fortitude, and thought it proof against the Severest trials 1 Perhaps it is to show me my own weakness, that my loved Sister and my child are doomed to Suffer. — I fear there is impiety in that thought. Gracious heaven, look down on my distraction! The first the tenderest object of my youthful fondness, my Emily! my lister I given to my care by a much honoured and a dying
parent -- -- for her I felt a mother’s tenderness, a
lister’s love! Why were the ties thus doubly twined around my Sad heart, if they must thus be broken! My daughter too, child of my wedded love! dear lo rue for her father’s Sake, as
for my own -- -- -- Both! both, myemilysat
once! Sure I may dare to Say, - the infliction is Severe!
Nothing can be more alarming than your account of my dear lister’s situation;; would fly to her this moment, but that my poor little
gid
•>
  119
Irl is also in a fever — my heart is torn to pieces )r the two dear Sufferers; nor does lord wood ille want his share of my compassion.. — I will ill look op to the throne of mercy, and hope r the recovery of these dear, dear friends! v^rite to me, Fanny, every hour if possible; nd, O 1 may your next bring comfort to
The truly afflicted
F. Straffon.
P. S. Sir John returned here this morning, and 1 almost distracted.
LETTER LXXX
my Weston to Lady Straffon.
Dear Madam,
A RAY of consolation beams upon us: lady L \ woodville’s fever is abated; she raves no lore. The disorder Seems now to have fallen pon her nerves; and her extreme weakness is, t present the principal Source of our apprehen ons for her. When she awoke out of the umber she was in, during my last letter, her "collection returned; she knew lady lawson, nd every person near her; but Seemed particu irly anxious to remember, what she had Said to er lord; and expressed great uneasiness at doc 3r fenton’s having Suffered him to run the ha ard of leaving his chamber.
Lady Lawson never quits her bedside;; tdy Harriet, who Seems to have forgotten all ler own distresses, hardly ever leaves my lord I am a Sort of courier between both; and by altering each in my accounts of the other, hope
n5 to
120
to forward both their recoveries. My lord expresses the strongest impatience to See lady Woodville : doctor Fenton will not consent to their meeting for Some days, nor even Suffer my lord’s letters to be, delivered to him. I am called to receive a visitor4 who can if be at this improper time?
What a flutter am I in? You would never guess who this guest was — Sir James Thornton! but So altered as I never Saw any creature f I began to fear he was married; though what is it to me if he were? He has been poring his eves out at Geneva ever since he left us; and looks as grave and as wise as an old professor of philosophy.
Do not be angry with me for trifling a little, my dear lady Straffon. I confess I was very glad to See him, and as lord and lady Woodville have had each of them a tolerable night, I think I may be allowed this Small indulgence. I have a prefcntiment too, that my eoufin Emily is better.
■ — In short, everything Seems to wear a more cheerful aspect than it did yesterday.
Poor Thornton was so much affected at his friend’s illness that the tears stood in his eves,
J ^
and he offered up an ejaculation for their recovery, with almost as much devotion as your ladyship could, though he is just come from a place where they say religion is not much in fashion : hut he is the best natured creature breathing, and I am Sure he prayed from his heart.
He told me that a vexatious lawsuit had brought him to England, and that he meant to ^ have returned to Geneva without Seeing lord Woodville or any of his friends; but being informed of the situation of this family, he had come from London on purpose to make the most biir.ute inquiries.
Hfi
i tlr. 11, l »iollcjtl0o. I2‘
He begged I vvould not let lord or lady wood /ille know that he had been here; Said he would lay a couple of days at Sir William lawson’s, n hopes of hearing they were out of danger, hen return to town to pursue his lawsuit, and IS Soon as that was over he would go back to 3eneva — but I shall use my best crow quill, ' to ry to persuade him to visit Woodfort once morcj )efore he crosses the Sea again; and if I Succeed n that, I may perhaps try a little farther.
This is the lass express that i.shall Send, as I : lope by next post:, to be able to give you a stiff nore Satisfactory account of our dear, dear fiends. Lady Woodville is very anxious about ler niece. — I tell her, I hope with truth, that he Sweet little Emily is much better. I entreat ou to confirm my .assertion in your next; and 0 believe me,.
most^’assectionately your’s
F. Weston.
L E T T E R LXXXI
Lady Straffon to ils/yi Weston. -
4
Dear Fanny,
rh E manner more than the matter of your last letter, has been a cordial to my heart. Sou could not sur ely write in Such a cheerful train, if our dear lady Woodville was in danger; ind yet your account is by no means Satisfactory; : xcept where you say that her reason is returned, ind that she had a good night — your thoughts vere diverted to another object, and your letter s confused. Pray be more explicit in your
lext.
I AM
\
122   i
^ i
I AM very happy to be able to confirm your \ assertion, in favour of my child. — She is I thank i God much better, though still in a dangerous state, 4 as the bone of her leg knits stowly, and she Suffers much, but though I may not be able to learn for!! from her example, I have at least acquired humility, from Seeing that a natural mildness of disposition can better enable us to Support the accidental miseries of this life than all our boasted reason and philosophy.
I AM ashamed of the intemperate lamentations I made use of in my last letter; and I entreat you to burn it, if you have not already done foi
SHALL continue to offer up my fervent prayers and wishes for the recovery of my dear Sister and her lord; and am, dear Fanny,
Sincerely your’s,
F. Straffon.
LETTER LXXXII
mip Weston lo Lady Straffon.
UPON my word, my dear lady Straffon, if I
had not very good news to send you, and was not very good-natured, I do not think I should write to you — how you huff one, for being glad to see an old acquaintance. If I did not know that your ladyship is married, I should have thought your last letter had been written by an old maid : but I am So overjoyed, at being able to tell you that lady Woodville is infinitely better, that "It cannot keep up my resentment against you any longer.
Yes, I am sincerely glad too, that the little Emily has verified my prediction, and recovers
daily.
1 rl XL Ti il JU 1V / rv 1 j: ju i o a rv LI o o. 123
daily." — Now, do not expect me to be methodical, for I will never be So; no, nor will I burn the letter you desire, for I really do not think there is anything in it, that you need be ashamed of.
Our affections are not given us entirely for our amusement; they were certainly designed to make us feel our mutual dependence upon each other, and the total snsufficiency of individuals to create their own happiness. They are the links which form Society; and though, by being stretched or broken they may give us pain, I am certain that we could have no pleasure without them.
I THINK I have got off of this subject very well, considering that this is my first: coup d.ejfai^ in the moralising strain. — Now for particulars — Lady Woodville Sat up two hours this day — She looks weak and languid, but is, I really think, more beautiful than ever.
My lord wrote her a few lines, which I had the honour of presenting to her; she Seemed transported with them, but, churl as she is, she did not let anybody See them. The doctor would not permit her answering them till tomorrow. — If she sends her letter by me, I shall be mightily tempted to peep — but I will not — for I should not like to be Served So myself; and I think that is the best way of determining all doubtful matters.
I s AW Sir jamesthornton again, last night — You See I mention him last, that you may not Say he has diverted my thoughts from more interesting Subjects. He perfists in not having his visits announced to lord or lady Woodville. I have promised to keep his Secret, and write to him every post, till they are quite recovered.
I shall
124 •■rir' x^ioij\ii, oo.
I shall begin my correspondence this night: therefore,
, Adieu, my dear lady Straffon.
F. Weston..
LETTER LXXXIII
k
Miss Weston to Lady Straffon.
Encore, my dear lady Straffon! do not you really think me very good-natured? but this is now the house of joy; and we, poor things, who have no character of our own, ca melion like, catch the hue of our next neighbour. — No letter from you by last post — but no matter. I have a little familiar, who tells me that Emily is better — thank you, good Spirit, for the pleasing news — and now let me tell you, that lady Woodville is so much recovered, that doctor Fenton is to leave us tomorrow.
I THINK I shall be Sorry when he goes; he is a pure chatty man, and I have Some reason to imagine, that he likes me vastly. Whenever I happen to be Sick, I will certainly Send for him.
Well! matrimony is a fine thing, to be Sure! and it is very hard, that I, who am So well inclined to enter into that holy state, cannot find an helpmate, meet for rae. Though I have my doubts, whether there be many Such husbands as lord Woodville. I declare he appears to be infinitely more in love with his wife, than he ever was. Such tender attention. Such unaffected fondness, I never beheld. — He is never out of her chamber, but when he is obliged to leave her
t
itin jjcl ic n ijti. uioikjioo. 125 to her repose, which Seems now, to be perfectly
uninterrupted.
Sir James Thornton is a better correspondent than your ladyship. — I received a letter from him, in answer to mine, with Some very pretty compliments intersperscd through it, upon my easy manner of wtiting. Travelling, I find, has improved him; for I do not recollect that he ever Said a civil thing to me before he went abroad. Better late thannever^ is a good proverb, boor lady Harriet! her Spirits are very low, though she has behaved Surprisingly well on barnard’s death; but I fear her calmness, on that occaston, was owing to the alarming situation of lord and lady Woodville; and that her grief will return with their health. I wish she would think of marrying, a good husband would make her forget Barnard. Dear, good Thornton! ano there letter from him, and more flattery! quelle douceur / quel charme / Adieu, my dear lady Straffon, I must indulge my vanity, this very moment, by showing his epistle to lord and lady Woodville. your’s, ever.
F. Weston.
LETTER LXXXIV
Lady Straffon to Miss Weston.
Thank you, my good Fanny, for your
two lively letters — they have been of infinite use to my poor weak Spirits; and though I may not be able to compliment as agreeably as Sir James Thornton, I will venture to Say that I am as well pleased as he, with the ease and cheer fullness of your writing. I hope my heart is
truly
%
I26
truly grateful to the Almighty, for the recovery of my dear Sister, and her lord, as well as for the restoration of my little Emily, whom we now tiiink past danger
You Say, very justly, that “our affections
were not given us for amusement.” No, Fanny! they were meant to humble the proud heart: to show us our own weakness and fallibilitv, by our frequently bestowing them on unworthy or impropct' objects; and even when directed by nature, and reason, into their right course, to all the tender charities of life, they should remind us of our entire dependence, on the great Author of our being, by making us sensible that the most delightful attachments, which can be formed, by love or friendship, Serve but to enlarge our vulnerary part, and increase our capacity of feeling pain.
Y ou, perhaps, may think this moral too Severe; but it is not meant to restrain us from the indulgence of those fond fensations, which are natural to every good heart, but to raise our gratitude, to the great Giver of all our blessings, and to remind us, that we hold them, by grant, from his bounty, and not from any right, or merit of our own.
As my Emily gains strength every day, we purpose going into Essex, in a short time; and as Soon as Sir John can Settle Some necessary affairs there; we shall all Set out for Bristol in hopes of meeting lord and lady Woodville there. — What a joyful meeting will it be to me! my eyes run over at the delightful idea..
Though lady Mount Willis took every precaution to conceal her generostty to Sir James Miller from himself, the unhappy man has discovered that he is indebted to her for his substst ence, and has written her a most affecting letter,
acknowledging
  127
icknowledging his own unworthiness, and entreating her to withdraw her bounty, as he declares he could better Support the most abject poverty, than the receiving of favours from one, whom he had so highly injured and offended. There is Something in this Sentiment that inclines me to forgive, even his former baseness, and to pity hi? present misery. Sure there can be nothing So truly humiliating as receiving obligations from those we have wronged.
I SINCERELY wisti that your epistolary correspondence with Sir James Thornton may answer all your expectation. — But, remember, Fanny, that flattery costs men nothing; and that women are apt to overrate it, and frequently iestow their love and esteem in exchange for what has no intrinsic worth. I grant that in the general commerce of the world, the person ivhose politeness and attention are most marked 0 us, deservedly obtains a preference in our regard; vanity is in Some degree inherent to all lunian kind, and the being rated above our fel ows, is a Species of flattery, which the most ielicate creature in the world is never offended It. But in a particular intercourse between man ind woman, we should take great care, that our )wn self-love does not impose upon us, and mag lify the common forms or exprestions of polite less into a particular address. — Do not be angry it this hint, Fanny, as it is only meant to Save 'our vanity, for I hope your heart is not yet
: oncerned, from the mortification of a difappoint nent.
, Tell my dear lady Woodville, that I most im 'atiently long for a line from her, and that I mu ually congratulate her lord, and her on their re overy.^ I am, dear Fanny, your’s sincerely.
F. Straffon.
LET
128
LETTER LXXXVI
#
Lady Woodville to Lady Straffon.
WHERE, Fanny,. I shall find words j
to express my gratitude to the Almighty for the blessings I have received from him? the smallest: of which is my own recovery from the grave f Words are inadequate to what I feel, but he can read my heart! Life is a common blessing giverrto all; and Sure there was a time liow long past, when I would most willingly have yielded mine, into his hands that gave it.
— but happiness,. my Sister! Such bliss as mine is but the lot of few. O how shall I deserve it teach me, Fanny; teach me every honest art to keep tffe treasure I have So lately found — lord woodville’s heart.
How little, alas! are we capable of judging for ourselves? my lord’s late illness, which I considered as the Severest infliction of Providence,
- has been the blessed means of all my present and I hope future happiness! his generous nature, struck with the Sufferings I endured, by one rich gift has overpaid them all — but Lmust, dare not » enter into the charming detail of my felicity — my Spirits will not bear it, but you shall know it all. For the present let it Suffice to tell you I have not now a wish ungratiffed, but that of being able to render myself worthy of the happiness I enjoy.
My lord, lady Harriet, who is a mirror of ressgnation, and Fanny Weston, all join with me in stncere congratulations to you and Sir John, on emily’s recovery. How truly thank
♦ fid
  129
full ought I to be for the dear child’s preservation! for indeed I could not have been happy had you been otherwise.
Adieu, my Fanny, I am as ever,
your’s,
E. Woodville.
LETTER LXXXVI
Miss Weston, to Lady Straffon.
[inclosed in the foregoing.]
I HOPE your ladyship will believe me perfectly Sincere, when I tell you tt I rejoice at lady woodville’s being able to release me from the office of her Secretary by answering for herself. For though I am highly fenstble of the great honour which your ladyship confers on Such a mad cap as me, by condescending to write to me, I must; beg leave to observe que la rose a fa picque — for indeed your ladyship’s kind and friendly admonitions upon the subject of Sir James thornton’s politeness, and. my vanity are rather humiliating. But in order to make your mind, as well as my own easy upon this Subject, I will venture to assure you that I shall require stronger proofs of Sir James thornton’s regard than a little flimsy flattery, before I Suffer my self-love to persuade me that the baronet is enamoured of your ladyship’s most humble Servant,
F.weston.
P. S. Pray, my dear lady Straffon, do not fancy I am in a huff, for I never was in greater harmony of Spirits than at present; having this
moment
130
moment received a letter from Sir James Thornton, in answer to an invitation which lord and lady Woodville commissioned me to make, and which he will accept in a few days. It is lucky that flattery costs men nothing, for the poor dear baronet would certainly be a bankrupt if he were to purchase all that he bestows upon
Your ever affectionate
F. W.
W W t*r trw W W W W titj w
LETTER LXXXVII
S'traffon to W00DVILL&.
Like the rich gales from the Arabian coast my emily’s last letter came fraught with health and joy. — What an high cordial must it have been to a fond sister’s heart, who long has mourned, without affecting to perceive those Secret Sorrows which Ihe could not heal, to hear that they at length are vanished?
I KNOW not which of us is at present happiest; but were the charming contest to be determined by the merit of the competitors, the precious palm would be adjudged to you. Long may my Emily enjoy the triumph she So well deserves!
I WILL not, cannot wait for a detail of your fe icity; I will behold and share it. — It is possible to be circumstantial under the Severest affliction; but happiness is by much too volatile for narrative — like a fine and Subtle essence, it evaporates through the activity of its own Spirit; we cannot paint the expressive looks which are lighted up by a glad heart; the eye alone can catch the brilliant beam, which brightens by reflection. —
Therefore
  131
sherefore expect to meet mine in less than four nd twenty hours after you receive this. Sir ohn and my girl will accompany me.
I HAVE had a very pleastng letter from lady lomerville, — Lodovico, Laura, and stie arrived afely at Genoa; her friends received them all vith open heart and arms. — The young people lave been entirely taken up with feasts, balls, ind masquerades. To avoid giving offence by •efusing to partake in these amusements, lady Somerville has retired to the very house which (he quitted upon her marriage, which is twenty leagues from Genoa. — She there continues to indulge that melancholy which time has been only able to Soften, not Subdue — amiable relict!
Tell Fanny Weston that the present harmony of my Spirits prevents my answering her letter as I ought; but she must not flatter herself that I do not mean to take any farther notice of it; for the moment I become acquainted with Sir James Thornton, I will instst upon his devistng a proper punishment for her pertness, and he shall be at once the judge and the execur tioner.
. Adieu, my dear Emily : I quit you with pleasure, at this moment, to hasten to that of our meeting.
LETTER LXXXVIII
Woodville to lorj Seymour.
\
The apprehenssons which my dear Seymour expresses on account of my fdence have
been but too well founded -- 1 have been upon
the verge of “that undiscovered country from
whose
132
whose bourn no traveller returns” But how do I now rejoice at not having passed the irremediable bounds in a state of infenstbility to the virtues of my now truly dear, and 1 hope happy wife I she is an angel, Seymour I
I KNOW what true delight these words will give you; they are stncere, my friend — they flow from my full heart. Blinded as I have been to her perfections, you will Surely pardon the transports of a man, who waking from a dream of
misery, finds himself in Elysium- -- -- is my
present state; what was my former one, you, and you only, know too well.
You are, doubtless impatient to hear what has wrought this happy change; with pleasure will I dwell on every circumstance, that must endear my Emily to my heart, and render her still more amiable in my friend’s eyes.
It is now above two months since I received your first account of ransford’s duel, and the marchioness’s distress. No words can paint the strong emotions of my mind — a thousand various Schemes to Succour her, rushed instantly through my disturbed imagination. My wife was present while I Tead your letter, and Saw the agitation of my mind. Her delicacy prompted her to retire; I prevented her, and told her, I know not how of barnard’s death, and begged her to inform lady Harriet of it in the tenderest manner — needless caution.
I THEN told her I would go and acquaint Sir Harry Ransford with the affair; and ordered my horses to be got ready immediately.
I SET out directly on that purpose- -- before
1 had rode a quarter of a mile, a Sudden impulse Seized me, a certain foreign and irresillable force, that impelled me to fly to the instant relief of the marchioness.
The
\
  133
The basenefs and madness of Such a resolve, rang forward to my view at the Same moment, jt the passions triumphed, a they always must 3, at the first onset over the feebler reason.
I CONSIDERED, that Ransford might proba ly call me to account for interfering in his af lirs; and felt a gloomy Satisfaction in thinking lat the loss .of life might be deemed an atone lent, for the cruelty of my conduct towards imily.
I THEN traversed the road in order to return ome through my park., and got into my closet nperceived by any of my family.
I there took out the marchioness's picture nd hung it round my neck, as a kind of talif nan, against that remorse which I must certainly eel, for abandoning my wife. I then Sat down nd wrote a letter to my Emily; and though at hat time under the influence of the strongest lelirium, I am pleased and proud to own, that ny tears flowed faster than my ink, while I re lected on the pain which She must Suffer when he read those lines. — I resolved to travel night m.d. day, and not put my letter in the postoffice ill I came to Canterbury.
As I was stepping out of my library, which fou know looks into the parterre, I Saw my little 3oy at play, close by the window with his maid.
-- -- The sight of my Son, startled me. — — —
The order of nature Seemed reversed. -- -- -- The
child admonishing the parent. I felt all this, but felt myself at the Same time like one in a dream labouring under an impression of the imagination, without reason to correct, or freewill to control it, I could not pafs into the park without being Seen by them; — the private manner of my return would have alarmed the family. I was ashamed to be detected by my
Servant,
134
Servant, and Spent above an hour, wmch appeared a summer’s day to me, in a state of the most restless impatience. I have Since thought, that this little accident Seemed as if kindly destgned
by Providence to give me time for reflection. But alas! the delay quickened the vehemence of my purpose to pursue my Scheme.
The moment I was at liberty, I flew back to the park, bid my Servants follow me, and Setoff with all the Speed my horse could make. — But I had not got three miles from my demesne, when by Some fortunate accident my horse made a false step, which he was incapable of recovering, and threw me fenseless to the ground.
How long I continued there, or what passed, during an interval of one and twenty days, has left no trace upon my memory; at the end of that period I awaked, as frorn unquiet rest. — — Gracious heaven! how shall I ever be able to express my astonishment at beholding lady Woodville Seated by my bedside, the statue of despair; pale, wan, and faded was her youthful cheek, her eyes were raised to heaven, as if in fervent though in hopeless prayer! O, Seymour! what a train of horrid images broke in at once upon rny burning brain; my unsettled reason fluttered on the wing, and Seemed as if it would depart again for ever.
The striking object that appeared before me, impressed my fenses with a kind of awe; yet I had power to Speak to her! she could not answer— — flood of tears, but they were tears of joy. Suppressed the power of Speech. She was carried out of the room by doctor fenton’s orders, and I then feigned a lumber, in hopes that recollection would afford Some clue to lead me through the labyrinth of my Situation.
The
  15s
The first circumstance that presented itself to ly memory, was, my having quitted Woodfort ith a design of abandoning that amiable crea ire, whom I now beheld reduced to the state I ave already described, by her tenderness for lethe next thing that occurred to me, was ly having had the marchioness’s picture round jy neck, which I now Searched for in vain. — I istantly ordered every person to leave the room Kcept Williams, and demanded from him an : count of my present Situation, and what was ecome of the picture which I had placed next ly heart? I could have no doubt of his faith r Sincerity — he has lived with m3 ever since I asa childf and loved me as if I had been his.
He fell upon his knees by my bedside, and egged me not to hurry or exhaust my Spirits, /hich he was Sure must be extremely weak, a iiis was the first moment the fever had left me, 3r one and twenty days; during which time he old me lady Woodville had never quitted my partment for a single hour, nor closed her jvely eyes.
That on the night I was brought home, the urgeon had me stripped, in order to know if I lad received any wound or bruise in my body; hat he had taken off the picture, and given it 0 my wife, supposing it to be hers; and at that ime she took no notice of it; but that he had )sten since Seen her gaze upon it most intently, ind Sigh as if her heart would break.
He Said that Thomas had also brought her the capers which were found in my pockets; and he gave them all to hira> to lock up; but that virs. Winter, her woman, who was present, old her ladyship there was a letter Sealed and directed for her, which she took, and left the 00m.
vol. II O That
V
I
136
That stie returned in a few minutes as pale as death, but never disclosed the contents; i though Mrs. Winter took as much pains as she dared to find them out, as she could not conceive what I could have to say to lady Woodville, when I had but just left her.
He told me, .Seymour, that Emily has knelt by my bedside for hours in fpeechless agony; has.kissed my feverish lips, and bathed my burning hands with her most precious tears; and yet she knew I had inhumanly determined to forsake her I to leave Such worth as hers a prey to pining grief and discontent! For whom? — You have too justly named her the most unworthy of her Sex.
You may foppose that duringwilliams’s recital, my reason tottered in its feeble seat; but I had still enough left to rouse my stumbering virtue, and to resolve that if I should recover, my future life should be devoted to love, to gratitude, to Emily. This bear me witness, heaven!
I had determined.before I knew, or even thought it possible I ever should despife the marchio ness.
As soon as I heard all that Williams had to say, I begged to See my wife. Doctor Fenton absolutely refused my request. I acquiesced upon his telling me she had lain down to rest.
The next day I repeated my entreaties without success. — On the third I became So impatient, ^ that Williams thought it most prudent to let me know the Sad truth, which every one else concealed from me, which was, that lady Woodville lay dangerousty ill of the fever she had caught from me.
I vas no longer sensible of my own weak
state.” -- The tumult of my passions gave me
a momentary strength. -- -- -1 rushed out of bed
upon
  137
jpon the injlant; never, Seymour, did I experience Such another! All lady woodville’s merits, which I had before but coldly admired, appeared : o me now in the warmest colours, and rose wen to perfection. But when contrasted with my ingratitude towards her, they overcame me. — I sunk into my servant’s arms, and Shed a flood of tears.
*
In Spite of all opposttion I would be carried Into my wife’s apartment. — I had resolved to implore her pity and forgiveness for my past follies, and to assure her of my future conduct, which I could no longer entertain a doubt of; IS the stncere and tender affection I thert felt for her, would, I hoped, ensure her happiness, and that I should date mine from her recovery.
Think of my situation, Seymour, when I
approached her bedside- -- was delirious! yet
the dear angel knew me though she raved, and in Such terms, that her words struck daggers to my heart. — My strength forsook me; I fainted, and was carried back to my own chamber, the unhappiest wretch that breathed upon the earth.
In pity to you, I will draw a veil over the wild ravings of my tortured mind, and make you happy by telling you that I am truly so, by knowing that my dearest Emily is out of danger.
This letter has been the work of two days;
tomorrow I am to See my wife. -- -- -1 count the
moments, Seymour, and think them hours till then!.
I HAVE heard that per Sons who have been once mad, never recover the perfect use of their reason; or at least are liable to Some returns of insanity. This thought shocks me! for if I could fuppose it poiuole 1 should ever again fink into that shameful, that now detested delirium, which
O a so
1^8
So long ‘possessed me, I would not wish to live another hour — ‘but it is impossible. — My emily’s virtues have Subdued my heart, and time instead of lessening, must increase their power.
It is high time that I should condole with you, on the sufferings you have endured from your generous friendship towards the marchioness. The meanness of her behaviour to you, makes me rejoice in the hope of her not being ransford’s
wife. -- -- Yet contemptible as her conduct ha s
made her appear even in my once partial eyes, she must not know distress, I mean with regard to her circumstances: and while Sir Harry rans ford lives, it will not he in his son’s power to Support her in the rank which she has held for Some years past. — Let me therefore entreat you to inform me of the event of her lawsuit with the marquis of St. Aumont.
Be not alarmed at this request, ‘seymour. It IS not passion, but compassion, that makes me wish to Serve her; for I here Solemnly declare, shat if 1 were not certain of having Entirely conquered the phrensy, which had lo long possessed my enfeebled reason, I have still virtue enough left to restrain myself from ever mentioning her name. But the real kistre of mv emily’s virtues, have triumphed over the false glare of isabella’s charms, that fatal ignis /.atuus, which so long dazzled and misted my "benighted fenses.
I SINCERELY rejoice in your fair vestal’s recovery; — may she live to make you happy, as your uncopimonsituation will admit!
I AM tfuly concerned for Ransford, and earnestly wish to know what course he has pursued, - — I think with you, that he is now in Switzerland; and Suppose he has written to you before
this time. What is become of lady Ransford?
But
  139
But I forget that you were prevented from feeing her, before you left Paris.
Adieu, my friend; — let me once more congratulate you upon my emily’s recovery, and my own restoration, to more than life!
I’, am, .: most truly
your’s.
Woodville.
LETTER LXXXIX
Lord Woodville to Lord Seymour.
TH E wished for, the charming interview is over I but where, Seymour, shall I find words to express the delicacy of my emily’s conduct? when I Would have fallen at her feet, and implored her to forgive my having made her mi fferable, she caught me in her arms, with that modest sensibility, which accompanies her every action, and Said that all the misery she had ever suffered, arose from considering herself as the fatal, though innocent cause of my unhappi tiefs.
thajt she should ever be truly grateful for the pains I had taken to prevent her being wretched, by endeavouring to conceal a passion which she was Sure it was as impossible for me to con i^uer, as it had been to disguise.
That she had long known of my attachment lo the marchioness, and that her utmost wish for many months past, was to be considered as my first friend; that she should never make an improper use of rny confidence, but that her utmost tenderness should be exerted to Sooth the Sorrows,
O 5 which
«
140
which (he <; old not heal. -- -- A flood of tears ]
opposed her rhrther utterance. |
I TOOK that opportunity .of assuring her, that!
it was in her power, and hers alone, to render me the happiest: of men.!
She wiped away her tears, and gazed n me, with looks of joy and doubt. Let not your kind ness, Said she, tempt you to deceive me. I feel too well, the impossibily of conquering a fond, a real passion! but I will strive, my lord.
I CAUGHT her trembling hand, and pressed it to rny lips. O no! I cried, my Emily! my love! indulge your virtuous fondness, and deeply as my heart appears to be indebted to you, like a poor bankrupt, it shall give its all, though it can never pay you what it owes — She quickly exclaimed, Ol am overpaid in this blessed moment, for years of. misery!! heart! but can you give it? is it yours, my lord? — No, Jimily I unworthy as it is, it is already yours, and shall be ever So.
Tears and embraces closed this charming Scene; and now with truth, my Seymour, can I boast I never knew unat heartfelt rapture was before that hour.
The conferring happiness, on any crealnre, is certainly the highest enjoyment, of any human mind; but the paying it to an amiable, and deserv -- ng object, must heighten the Sentiment, even to ranfport.
Si r James Thornton has been obliged to return to England, on account of a lawsuit. He purposed keeping himself concealed, but upon hearing of mine, or rather my emily’s illness, he posted down from London, to Sir William lawson’s, and remained there till she was pronounced out of danger. Since that time he had Irequent accounts of our recovery, from Fanny
Weston,
  141
Weston, with whom he corresponds in a very gallant style.
I KNOW fie likes the young baronet, and as I flatter myself he is cured of his hopeless pas sion for lady Woodville, or at least, am well assured that he will never presume to pursue ir,
I have prevailed upon my wife, to consent to his making us a visit; but neither his being at Woodfort, nor anything elfe, shall prevent our ging to Bristol in a few days; for though my lovely invalid is Surprisingly recovered from her late illness, the shock which her constitution has received, has rendered it almost as delicate, as her charming mind. I will watch over them both, and hope to restore them to their natural state, which is almost perfection.
I HAVE shown Emily all your letters, and told her the story of my connexion v.iih the marchioness, without concealing a Single circum stanca which passed, either at Paris or York. During my narrative, ‘H often did beguile her of her tears, ” they flowed Sincerely, when I informed her of the struggles, of my then tortured mind.
I WELL, knew that the confession of my past weakness, must give her pain; but I was certain she would receive it as the strongest mark of my present Sincerity. The tenderness and delicacy of her expressions, upon this trying subject, have, if possible, raised her in my esteem, by convincing me that her understanding is as e; cel lent, as her heart; and that her mind and per Ion constitute a treasure almost too great for the most worthy man. sensible as I am of my own demerits, can I ever be Sufficiently grately for Such a blessing? but I will endeavour to deserve it, Seymour, by devoting every hour of my future life to her happiness.
o4 Since
142
Since the recovery of my reason, I have received infinite pleasure from playing with my little boy. How could I be insenfible to the natural and innocent endearments of Such a lovely creature? but I find happiness and pleasure crowding in upon me, through a thousand avenues, that my delirium had rendered impervious to their sost attacks; and I begin to think that I have been new formed^ as well as reformed. since my redemption.
Lady Woodville, who is sincerely grateful for your kind attachment to her, intreats you will at your return to Paris, endeavour to find out Sir James Miller, and purchase for him either a commission, employment, or annuity, which may be Sufficient for his Support, as the unhappy man has absolutely refuted to accept lady Mount willis’s bounty, from the moment he discovered that it was to her he owed it. There is Something like greatness of mindin this circumstance, which renders him an interesting object. What mixtures are we compounded of I You may guess your pay mistress/wo^.
I IMPATIENTLY long for the pleasure of
hearing from you, and am with the warmest affection of friendship.
Ever yours,
WCCDVILLE.
letter XC
z cr^/seymour to Lord Woodville.
4
My dear Woodville,
HI S letter will probably reach England but ^ a few days before the writer of it j but I
would
  143
would not for a moment delay pouring forth my acknowledgements, for the Sincere pleasure I have received from your two last letters; and my warmest congratulations oh the charming subject of them.
Yes, thank heaven, my friend is restored to life, to reason, and to happiness 1 can Seymour ligh while he repeats that Sound? O Woodville! my cup has been Severely dashed with Sorrow, nor has there ever yet one joy stnmixed e’er reached my heart. Yet let me not complain; my own imprudence formed the fatal v/eb, that has ensnared my peace; the unhappy duel that I fought with captain Beaumont Sealed its ruin!
But why should I distress you by tracing my misfortunes to their Source; it is too much for you to know,, that I am wrefched’ — no matter for what cause;
The length of time that has elapsed stnce my last letter to you, has been fertile of Sad events; which I shall relate to you in as Succinct a manner as I can.
When I had been about a week at Bellevue the good old general was attacked with a disorder in his stomach, which had most alarming Symptoms. He was. fenstble of his Situation, but Seemed to wish to conceal it from his children, who vied with each other in their tender ness and affliction for him. It is impossible to do justice to their, merits,, r; describe the affecting; Scene.
At the end of twelve days he expired, and left the most diseonfolate family lever, beheld t but charlotte’s grief Surpassed even credibility. Neither her brother, stster, nor I, could prevail upon her to leave the chamber where the body lay, till the moment it was to be interred. She passed the nights and days, in .prayers and tears
p 5 j^j udg^
144
■ — Judge what I Suffered from my apprehensions for her.
As Soon as the funeral was over, she requested that we would indulge her with the liberty of passing a few days without interruption in her chamber. We bad no right to trefpass on her grief; but yet our fears for her too delicate constitution, made us reluctantly comply with her desire.
O N the fourth evening of her retirement she Sent for madame de Carignan, who flew to obey her Summons, but returning in a few minutes to captain Beaumont and me, with an air of distraction, cried out, our miseries are but begun, O hasten quickly, or her angelic Spirit will be fled! And can I paint the Sad, the Solemn Scene! no, Woodville, no J it will live for ever, graved upon my heart — but words would wrong my feelings.
Charlotte! my once beloved, my now adored and sainted maid! Sighed out her Soul to heaven.
Grief will not kill us, Woodville, or I should not Survive to tell her death 1 can no more.
Adieu, my friend.
.. Seymour.
>
s
letter XCI
Lord Seymour to Lord Woodville.
't
i
My dear Woodville,
IT was impossible for me to have added another word to my last letter. I have but a very Sew more to Say with regard to the
Beaumont family, and then the dear, the fatal
name
  145
name shall no more pass my lips, bnt remain treasured up in my Sad heart, a precious hoard for everlasting grief to brood upon.
I TOLD you in Some of my former letter's, that captain Beaumont visited me every day, during my confinement in the Chatelet. He ihere beheld and became enamoured of the fair Maria D’angueville. When he had been about ten days at Bellevste, he acquainted me with his passion, and entreated me to Speak toshis father upon the Subject. Accident prevented my having an opportunity of obeying him, till the general’s illness rendered’it improper — and the real affliction which he has Since felt. Seemed to have quenched the new enkindled flame.
But a few days after our return to Paris, he again re astumed the Subject, and begged me to apply to his fair eoufin and his uncle, for leave to pay his addresses to he. I told him truly that the situation of my mind rendered me totally unfit to be the ambassador of love or joy; but that I was determined before I should leave Chatelet,, to return thanks for the humane and generous treatment I had met with from the governor and his family, and to entreat maria’s acceptance of the legacy which her uncle the general had bequeathed me of twenty thousand' livres. ‘
I THOUGHT that captain Beaumont appeared displeased at my intention; as he coolly replied, that he did not want a fortune with his wife, and thought I had better bestow the legacy 1 did not fchufe to accept, upon fomeipf the younger children of the family, who m%ht possibly stand in need of my bounty. I told him that maria’s likeness to his beloved lister, had made her the
principal object of my present attention, and
that
146
that I would put it in her power to dispose of the Sum in question, as Ihe thought proper.
Soon after this conversation the captain withdrew, and I remained for Several days So entirely absorbed in my grief, that I reflected not upon the unkindnessof my friend’s conduct, who neither came nor Sent to me for near a fortnight.
At length he entered my chamber one morning without being announced, and found me gazing So intently upon charlotte’s picture, that I Saw him not till he exclaimed with a voice of distraction. What unmerited affliction and distress has the unhappy Seymour brought on all the Beaumont race?
Though the Severity of this reproach might have roused my resentment at another time, I was so much Softened by the object then before me, my angel charlotte’s face! that bursting into tears, I answered — O Beaumont! cannot grief like this atone for my involuntary crimes? and does my friend upbraid my misery??
these words he rushed into my arms and cried, forgive me, Seymour. Then started wildly from me and went on — but wherefore flow these tears upon a fersseless object, lost and forgotten in the grave, when there is now a fairer and a kinder maid ready to heal your Sorrows.
I COULD not avoid expressing my astonishment at this unintelligible discourse, and it was a long time before he explained himself, by telling me that the lovely and innocent d’anguevilie had conceived a passion for me during the time I remained a prisoner in the Chatelet; and that upon being pressed by her father and mother to receive her .coussn’s hand, she had declared that she would rather pass her days in a cloister than with any other man but lord Seymour. I was extremely affected with this intelligence, as it
concerned
  147
concerned my friend, the unhapj^y girl, and my own honour.,
I ASSURED captain Beaumont, that I never had Spoken to her upon the Subject of love, or made the least attempt to gain her affections; and that I was ready to do everything in my power to assist in conquering maria’s weak partiality to me, that might not injure her delicacy or my own character.
The frankness and Sincerity of my manner, soon got the better of his ill grounded suspicions; he ashed my pardon a thousand times, for having entertained a doubt of my affection to his dear dead Sister; but hoped, as I had been myseif a lover, I would forgive his rashness.
It was at last agreed upon between us, that I should write to Maria directly, and acquaint her with the real state of my heart, which must be for ever incapable of love for any earthly object; that I should not see her before I left Paris; and at my felting out, should take an everlasting leave of her by letter. That neither her father, nor any other person should press her to marry, till time and reason might enable her to triumph over a passion which opposition would certainly increase. That captain Beaumont would continue his assiduities, without mentioning his love. • — That she should not know of the present I designed her, till a year was elapsed; but if at that time, she refused to marry captain Beaumont, I should be at liberty to put her in possession of the twenty thousand livres, and that she should be allowed to dispose of them as she pleased.
This affair thus Settled, my friend took his leave with a thousand acknowledgments for what he called a Sacrifice, and I Sat down to fulfil my promise of writing to Maria — when wilson announced
148
nounced a very unexpected visitor; it was ma dame de St. Far, the marchionefs’s mother, whom I had never Seen or heard of Since the time that you first became acquainted with her daughter.
She was then, you may recollect, an agreeable figure, rather comely than handsorne, and plumper than the generality of her country women. She is new emaciated to a skeleton, and I could not help feeling Some apprehensions, that she would expire before she lest my apartment,, as she was frequently much agitated during the, time she staid.
She told me, that her daughter had Suffered her to want even the common necessaries of life,, and had absolutely refused to see her from the moment she became a widow. Though I detest the marchioness, I could not avoid observing to ma dame dest. Far, that 1 imagined the first part of her accufatioq, nriust be unjust, as She had formerly appeared in the world, as a woman of fortune; and therefore must certainly be able to Support herself independent of her daughter’s bounty.
She told me I was much deceived, and as she had no longer any terms to keep with the ungrateful marchioness, she would reveas her real situation— — then informed me, that she had lived for Several years with a monsieur de ver ville at Dijon, by whom she had Isabella;; at length by the persuasion of his friends, monsieur de Verville determined to marry, and parted, with her and her daughter; but allowed them a. decent Support, and took every proper care of his child’s education.
That as she grew up extremely handsome, madame de St. Far determined to bring her to Paris, in hopes of making her fortune; and for
that
  149
that purpose assumed the name she now used, and endeavoured to appear like a person of dis tinction. That the marchioness was perfectly acquainted with their circumstances, and readily entered into the Scheme; but in order to carry it on, she was obliged to run constderably in debt, though they were not above Six months in Paris, before the marchioness had the good fortune to charm both you and the marquis de St. Aumont.
She added, that the only reason her daughter ever gave for preferring the marquis to you, was the probability of becoming her own mistress by his death, for that she knew her own disposition So perfectly, that she was certain she could not confine her affections to any one person long.
O Woodville! what an happy escape have you had from this vile woman! but to make an end of this tedious tale. She told me, that monsieur de Verville died without a will. Soon after the marchioness’s marriage; and that she was by that means deprived even of the Small income which he had allowed her. She implored me' to assist her in getting into Some convent where she might pass the remainder of her days without hearing ' of her undutiful and unnatural daughter. Shave desired her to fix upon a proper place for her retirement, and I will readily pay the Sum necef faryto her admission. I presented her with my purse, and desired to hear from her as Soon as
possible.
This affair, and lady woodville’s commands to find out Sir James Miller'will detain me a few days longer in Paris. How earnestly do st long to quit it! yet are not all places alike to the unhappy? no, there is one asylum, and but one, for wretchedness like mine — — the peaceful grave!
Forgive
ISO
Forgive me, Woodville, for talking in this melancholy strain, to my now happy friend— — you be long fois the warmest wish of
Seymour.
P. S. I know not whether I told you that I have sought lady Ransford in vain ever stnce my return to Paris. She quitted her hotel in a few days after barnard’s death, and has left no trace behind her.
LETTER XCH.
Lord Woodville to Lord Seymovr
M Y dear Southeast y mo u r,
Your remark, that neither happiness nor pleasore come to us unmixed, is but too aptly verified in me; for the real and tender concern which your situation gives me, is a strong alloy to that tranquil happiness I should at present enjoy, if the friend of my heart were not wretched. — There is Something so uncommonly distressful in your circumstances, that to attempt to lessen your affliction would be an in fuk to humanity; — for who that has a heart to feel another’s loss, would wish to stop the graceful tears that flow where reason, and where virtue o’er the tomb, are fellow mourners.”
I AM Sorry for captain beaumont’s disappointment is love, but I have infinitely more pity forth e
  151
the young and innocent Marla. You and I both know how difficult it is to struggle with the first fond impressions of the heart; and women in general, from a principle of delicacy are much more inclined than men, to cherish their first passion, even when hope is fled.
I HAVE a melancholy proof of this truth too near me — poor lady Harriet Hanbury! She still laments the : unworthy Barnard, and I fear will Soon follow him to an untimely grave, — while Sir James Thornton Seems to have transferred the passion he felt for lady Woodville to miss Weston, who kindly receives his vows, and will, I hope. Soon crown his wishes.
I CANNOT help being extremely shocked at the infamous conduct of the marchioness towards her mother. — Why need we become volunteers in vice? Our passions but too strongly and frequently impel us to break the bounds prescribed by virtue; but then those passions may, I humbly hope, in Some degree alleviate our transgressions j but her unnatural behaviour to she unhappy \voj, man who gave her birth, admits of no extenuation. This could not have proceeded from any passion, and must therefore be a double vice.
I AM however much better pleased to owe my cure to emily’s virtues than to isabella’s vices; as the knowledge of the former are a perpetual Source of happiness to me, while the discovery of the latter must for ever reflect on my own weakness, in being So grossly deceived.
Madame de St. ear’s establishment in the convent, must nof be at your expense. My Emily! my lovely generous girl! infists on paying her pension. She shust not be refused whatever she desires, by Woodville, or his friend.
I MOST
h2
I MOST impatiently long for your return to England; I wish you would meet us at Bristol, where we purpose going in a. few days: for though my Emily is So much recovered, that neither her physscian nor herself think she has occaston to drink the waters, I will not be Satisfied, unless she does; as I flatter myself they may assist in confirming that health, which her present happiness Seems to have perfectly restored.
Sir John, lady Straffon and their daughter, are now at Woodfort; they and my Sister Law son, are to accompany us to the hot wells. Lady Mount Willis has lain in at her house in Somersetshire — we are to pay her a visit enpajfant — she has got a Son, and is as happy as she is amiable. We are all anxious to know what is become of Ransford, of his stepmother and Sir James Miller; but I am much more So to embrace my ever valued friend, and if I cannot heal, to Sooth his Sorrows — may that at least be in the power of seymour’s most affectionate
wcodvllle.
LETTER XCII
Seymour to Woodville.
Yes, Woodville, I will take your counsel,
and hasten to lay hold on the possession of the only good that is now left me, your generous friendship I I will meet you at the hot wells in a short time; but I will not live in the Same house with you, nor return from thence to Woodfort. I know the value of your regards too well, to Suffer it to be productive of misery to you, or your deservedly happy wife. — No! seymour’s
Sorrows
  153
Sorrows (hall not cast a shade on the bright Sunshine of your future days! nor subject you to the unavailing pain of endeavouring to erase the dark engrained tints of melancholy, which must form the colour of my life to come. Yet I will frequently behold my friend, and with stncere delight, contemplate his felicity.
I HAVE at last had a letter from Ransford.
•v
Sure there is fascination in the marchioness’s
S'
charms! He raves and is distracted at her having disowned him aaa husband, which she has formally done by her Solicitor, in order to recover the remainder of those effects which were cont

fiscated on account of his duel with captain Barnard. She carried her point; they were restored to the marchioness de St. Aumont, but her creditors have Seized on every thi^ag she left. Her hushand’s nephew has carried his Suit against her, but has allowed her an annuity of four thou Sandlivres, while she remains unmarried, in res pect to his uncle’s memory. — I think this income is quite Sufficient for her wants, and infinitely beyond her merits. I therefore entreat you to reserve your geperofity for Some more worthy object.
The now happy St. Far is Settled in a convent at Dijon; where she proposes leading an exemplary life. Lady woodville’s expense, for she must be obeyed, will not amount to more than forty pounds a year.
About ten days ago, a monk came to my apartments, and desired to Speak with me. He told me there was a lady in the Carmelites con' ' who begged to See me upon an affair of the utmost importance to one of my friends. I inquired very particularly who the lady was : he Said he knew nothing more of her than that she was an Englishwoman, and. was called jefferson,
He
154
He added, that at her request he had been often to Seek for me, while I was absent from Paris;, that he had given up all hopes of meeting me but rejoiced at his being more fortunate than he expected, and entreated me to obey the lady’s Summons.
This affair would have been matter of Speculation to me, if my mind had been Sufficiently atease, to think about itbut without reflecting at all upon the Subject, Pentered the carmelite’s convent at ten o’clock the next morning, and inquired for Mrs. jefferson. — I did not wait long in the parlour, when a lady dressed in deep mour -- ning approached the grate. — I fixed my eyes intently upon her, and knew her to be lady Rans
Sord. -- - — A crimson glow overspread her cheek
when she Saluted rae,. and at that moment she appeared a most interesting object.
To Save her the trouble of apologising for sending for me, I told her how much I had been disappointed at not being able to discover her retreat, at my return to Paris, and begged to know if I could be any way Serviceable to her; and, at the Same time, entreated she would inform me,, of everything she knew, in relation to the unhappy affair, between captain Barnard and my friend.
Her tears flowed fast and filent, while I Spoke. — When she perceived that I'waited for her reply, she took out her pocket book, and presenting it to me. Said, your lordship will there find two letters, which will render any conversation
with me upon this painful Subject, needless. -- -
I commit them to your care, in order that every possible use may be made of them, for Mr. ransford’s advantage. I bear no enmity to his father, nor do I wish to make him an exile from that country to which I never more will return.
I askedi
  155
I ASKED her with as much delicacy as I pos ssibly could, what Scheme of life she intended to ?pursue, and again repeated the offer of my Service to her. She thanked me, and Said that •captain barnard’s death had made her think dif serently, from what she had ever done before; that she was too conscious of the enormity of her conduct, to think of returning into the world; 'that she therefore determined to pass her days in a convent, but would always have it in her powder to quit it, as she did not mean to make any wows.
I REALLY admired the rationality of her ‘sentiments, and of courfe approved them; but was ignorant by what means she could be Supported, even in a convent; till she assured me, that at her marriage to Sir Harry Ransford, he had •signed an article allowing her in cafe of Separation, a power of three thousand pounds, or an annuity of a hundred and fifty pounds a year, during his life; and a jointure of four hundred; pounds a year at his death. She Said the annuity would be Sufficient for her maintenance; that she desired no favour from a person she was Supposed to have injured, though the fatal con neoiion, between Sir Harry and her, had been the Source of all her miseries.
She begged me to forward barnard’s letter to Ransford, and to send copies of it to the captain’s friends in England, in order to pave the way for ransford’s return. I promised to obey her, and took my leave; as I now must: of you,
in order to hasten my Setting out. you will
probably hear from me once more, before you See your unhappy, but
Truly affectionate,
Seymour.
LET
is
LETTER XCIV
Lord Seymour to Lori/woodville.
Amiens.
I HAVE at length taken an everlasting leave of Paris, and have got So far on my way to my native land, but without being fenstble of that charming enthustafrn, which is styled the Amor Patriae, and which I believe has been oftener described than felt by voluntary exiles, for I confess that I have very little idea of local attachments; persons, and not places, have engrossed all the affections of which my heart is capable; and though the sight of albion’s chalky cliffs, may not inspire me with much delight, I shall certainly feel true pleasure, when I behold my dear Woodville and his amiable wife.
I SHOULD not stop on my journey to tell you this, because I am Sure you must know it untold, but my worthy, my faithful wilson, whom I have long considered as my friend, though he still acts as my Servant, left Paris with a slight fever on him : travelling has, perhaps, increased his malady, and I purpose halting here till he is quite recovered.
I GAVE you an account of my interview with lady Ransford, in my last, and will now inform you, of the purport of those letters, which were found in captain barnard’s pocket, after the duel. That which was addressed to her ladyship, was filled with tender adieus, and Soft contrition for having involved her in distress, and leaving her probably exposed to misery in a foreign land; with the most Solemn entreaties not to prosecute
Mr.
  157
Mr. Ransford in cafe he should Survive, as he there acknowledged, that he had drawn the duel on himself.
That which he wrote to Ransford was short, yet contained the fullest declaration, of his having Sought the quarrel, and its consequences, from a weariness of life, which he Said must be for ever embittered, by reflecting on the bafeness of his behaviour towards lady Harriet Hanbury, as well as on the unworthy part he had acted, in Seducing lady Ransford from her duty. He implored his forgiveness for the injury he committed against the honodr qshis family, and for having engaged him to hazard his life, from a too earnest destreof getting rid of his own.
How inconsistent is the conduct of this unfortunate man! his attention to the preservation of his antagonist’s life, is certainly noble; but what an act of inhumanity was it to lay Ransford under the fatal necessity of becoming his executioner? or bow are we to reconcile the Spirit of this last action, with the unworthy tenor of his former life
I AM convinced there is no human creature So entirely lost to virtue, as not to be possessed of one good quality at least, which if known, and properly cultivated, might in Some measure counterbalance its owner’s vices to Society; but we are all too apt to reprobate a faulty character; too indolent to Search out the latent virtues of another’s heart; and find it more for our ease, to take it for granted, that a vicious person must be vicious throughout, than to Seek for a grain of wheat in a bushel of chaff.
After many fruitiess inquiries, I am informed that Sir James Miller has obtained a commission in the Hungarian Service, by Some of his friends here, and that he left Paris about three weeks
ago.
\
k
158
ago, in order to join his regiment, Ransford is at Brussels, but the marchioness and he do not live together. I have forwarded barnard’s letter to him, and flatter ray Self we shall soon see him in England.
My parting with the dear remains of the Beaumont family was truly affecting, madam de Carignan came to Paris, .on purpose to bid me adieu. Captain Beaumont presented me with his and his father’s pictures; he had before given me charlotte’s portrait. — Alas! it was an useless gift, as her dear image is too strongly graved on my heart!
I WILL not dwell upon this subject longer; but it is impossible that I should turn my thoughts to any'other now, — I can therefore only say,
N
Farewell.
9
Seymour
FINIS.
««
C
1 fi I ^
