THE 
H I S T O R Y 
O F 
LUCY CLEVELAND. 
THE 
EXAMPLE: 
OR THE 
HISTORY 
O F 
LUCY CLEVELAND, 
B Y A 
YOUNG LADY. 
VOL. I. 
LONDON: 
PRINTED FOR FIELDING AND WALKER, No, ao, PATERNOSTER-ROW, 
M.DCC.LXXVIII. 
f I 
PREFACE. 
H E N I attempt to interest an impartial Public in favour of the following Work, it is not from a vain hope, that it is defer\dng of the approbation of the judicious. — No, my hopes are better founded: a candid, a liberal, a generous Public, will make the necefsary allowances, for the jirji attempt of a young female Adventurer in Letters. 
a 3 But 
[ VI ] 
But what shall I Say to the mere Critic? conscious as I am of the deficiency of my literary abilities, I shall, with all due fubmislion, kifs the rod in silence: : will thank the hand that points out my errors, and endeavour to profit by the admonition. 
All I entreat of those who may think it worth their while to form a judgement of the following Work, or, who may be inclined to criticise on it, is, that they will recall to their remembrance the motive that first induced the undertaking : that of holding out a good Example to my female readers. 
If the Example be considered as a piece of painting; it will, I fear, 
fall 
[ VII ] 
fall even below criticism: it wants, ' L am very sensible, warmth of colouring, contrast of character, and the advantage of light and stiade. So estential to the finished Picture. To this, indeed, the Authoress does not arrogate a pretension: how far a generous encouragement from the Public may foster her genius, and give glow and warmth to her imagination, or richness and colouring to her pencil — time must prove. At present, stie only pretends, to have attempted to place a female Character in a variety of situations;; one of them, probable, (for stie disclaims the outre., however it might heighten the painting) in these situations. She hopes the Heroines ’ conduct will appear examplaryl 
How 
[ VIII ] 
How well these hopes are founded, find how far her attempts may Succeed; She waits in most respectful, but anxious Silence, for the determination of the Public. 
THE 
THE 
HISTORY 
O F 
L U C Y C L E V E L A N D. 
LETTER I. 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. james’s street. ^ R U E L Fanny! to leave me at a time I stood most in need of your friendly consolation! but when my petitions could not impede your depar vol. I. B turc 
f 2 ] 
‘ture — I have little hope my remon* Jtrances will accelerate your return! 
What could be your inducement To quit your Lucy, for whom you have professed So tender an attachment? I have observed with concern, that your mind has not lately been perfectly at ease — Surely Fanny, the wish to conceal anything from me, could not be the motive for your absence ^ 
'May not you in return putqueries? I feel — I feel — you may, and that with a reasonable expedlation of being fully Satisfied in all your inquiries. 
I am almost tempted to prevent this retort, and to entitle myself to the praise due to openness, candour, and Sincerity — qualities of the mind — that I admire in others, and am desirous of 
emu[ 
[ ] 
emulating -, but there is Such an nnsor tunate peculiarity in my Situation — So much room for kind construdlions, and friendly allowances, — that — that my heart Sails me — and I cannot — I think I cannot — even write \ what wonder 
then that your importunities could never prevail on me whilst we were together, to Sully unvail that Sorrow that has, and still does poffess my heart. — Yet, in Spite of all my care, I susped you have observed too much, for it to avail me to continue Silent. — And must' I then confess my frailties “and must I ravel out my weav’d up follies ?” and will you not love and esteem me less — do give me leave to hope, that Such ash addition will not increase the afflictions of the wretched, 
LUCY CLEVELAND. 
b2 lets 
4 ] 
L E T T E R II 
M R S. D O R M E R 
TO 
M 1 $ S LUCY CLEVELAND. 
Oxford, 
I HAVE received your letter, and Sincerely feel for your distress of mind, whatever may be the cause. 
I dare not condemn you for your reserve— — I have not been unde,, of blame for a Similar condu(5l. 
— When I affirm, that my most heartfelt friendship cannot be lessened by anything in your power to communicate, — do not imagine that it is to induce yoir to Satisfy an idle curiosity — A passion but too justly attributed to 
our 
[ 5 J 
our Sex— — my dear girl, when I protest.i shall for ever love you, it is because I think you can have no part of your conduo; to explain, that you are not more to be pitied for, than blamed. — If to unburden your mind of its corroding care, rendered more acrimonious by confinement, does not to your own judgement promise relief; — you shall have no queriesitom me. 
But to give you the most convincing proof what my opinion is, I will, with the most perfect unreserve, open my whole heart to you, which will fully explain why I quitted your ho: ^itable mansion in St. james*s street; and then you yourself shall judge, whether you ought either to fetition or fmon^ Jlrate, 
B 3 The 
[ 6 ] 
The greatest breach of friendship to you, and of the laws of impartiality, witstrespetfi to miy husband, has been Screening my own errors under the paltry Subterfuge of concealing ir, when I fear 1 shall be the Sufferer when you draw a comparison in our chara(5l: crs. — Colonel Morley, who I must always call father, and wsho has been truly Such to me, and his daughter Delia, are just arrived' — A visit I by no means expected — I could have dispensed with their company, as it will oblige me to keep you in a state of fuspense until the next post, — by which conveyance, if nothing unforeseen prevents, there shall not remain an action of my life, or a thought of my heart, worth seciti ng, unknown to you. -- -- Adieu!! 
affedlionately, 
FANNY DORMER. 
(m 
[ 7 ] 
(in continuation.) 
Delia being fatigued with her journey, requested permission to lie down — and my Sather having letters to write, enables me, contrary to my expedations, to pursue my intentions. 
Though I have always declined entering into any particulars of my life, fearful that the true account of my conduct, might occasion a change in your Sentiments towards me; — — Yet I remember to have told you, that my Sister and myself went over to Bengal,, with my mother and Colonel Morley (her Second husband), when we were mere children — but for farther particulars relative to them, I shall refer you to the History of her Own Life, which,, as Soon as my things are cleared from the India house, I will Submit to your perusal. — It likewise contains Some ad b 4 vice 
■ ' [8 ] 
vice — that her discernment soresaw I should stand in much need of — and I fear you v/iil judge by my condikst, that I have little regarded itbut ir is fit her revered memory should have jus tice done ir, though I shall Suffer in your esteem. 
V My m other was not only celebrated 
'for her beauty and delicacy of form — but for the more lasting perfedlions of a good understanding, and a benevolent heart; — her gentleness of dispofi tion too often interfered with parental authority, and we regarded her more as a friend than a rpother. 
My Sister, who was two years older than myself, and who was at that time the admiration of the whole factory for her beauty and accomplishments. Selected Major fortescue from the rest of her lovers, as one deserving of her preference. 
[ 9 ] 
ference. The whole study of my mother’s life was to promote the happiness of her children, and she recommended him to my father, as a very proper match for Nancy. 
He accepted the proposal, and they were married. As our tempers never .agreed, and I was extremely jealous of that admiration, which all but myself thought her person demanded, I was particularly rejoiced at her marriage. Indeed while she was at home, I was Scarce ever noticed by the number of amiable young men, who was intimate at our house, and never were there a more choice collection;; was ta be expected, as they were Selected by a man of So much good sense, genius,, and taste, as Colonel Morky. 
However, a very short time dapsed,, * before Mr. Dormer, one of his greatest B 5 inti 
[ 10 ] 
intimates, applied to him for permission to gain his fanny’s heart. 
dormer’s assiduities had never pasted unnoticed by me, and I gave him every modest encouragemient to confess, what his eyes had long told me; after he had gained the approbation of my father, I did not long remain a stranger to his passion. 
His person was handsome, and he appeared to a stight acquaintance a faultless being; — except that he was thought, by the jedate part of his friends, very reprehensible for his great levity. — The truth is, he was a very great rake. — — “It is the common received idea, that “a reformed rake makes the best “hushandand the Colonel being very partial to me, imagined I should be a very proper persbn to effect this 
refer[ 
[ ” ] 
; to confess the truth, I had vanity enough to think So too. 
My amiable mother was of a very - different way of thinking — 'she observed a disposition to jealousy from strong passions, and the prejudices that naturally take place in the opinion of a rake, ^ whose conversation and more intimate connexions have been with the most abandoned of our Sex. — She therefore entreated Colonel Morley to delay the marriage, until she had made Sorrie very necessary inquiries into the state of her. 
fanny’s heart. 
She must indeed have thought it very ejfentiaj — or she would not have presumed to show a reiuxance at what he. had resolved. r afcer repeated Soliicita -- tions on her fide, and great reluxance; on his, he consented to postpone the,; 
B 6 marriage, 
1 
[ 12 .1' 
marriage until she had held the intended conference with me. 
By way of gaining Some time for her poor girl, whom she looked on as one going to be Sacrificed, she was Several days before she began a conversation, which she thought So essential to my future happiness — but my Father expressed So much diitatisfadlion at the delay, that she called me into her closec the next morning, and interrogated me in the following manner. 
“Colonel Morley, my dear, has, a few days since, received a very advantageous proposal for you from Mr. Dormer — he tells me it is, in point of circumstances, a most unexceptionable offer — and that be has permuted Mr. Dormer to use his endeavours to gain your heart. — I knew Sowell the delicacy of my girl’s feelings, that I could not 
Suffer 
[ 13 I 
Suffer her to be precipitated into' an union with any man, until I was assured by herself she preferred him to any other; — or rather to caution you against marrying any man, you do not love well enough, to wish for the application he has made. — answer me with that candour I have ever loved you for, and do not attempt to conceal anything from your fond mother, which in the end will be deceiving yourself.’* 
I told this best of women — That I had ever preferred Mr. Dormer to any of the gentlemen that had visited at our house— — “” Said she, interrupting rne, “did you prefer him ^ was it for the beauty of his person — or, my dear Fanny, that he has been more assiduous in his attentions — or, confess the truth my love, ha? not his flattery been more ‘ — I will not Say fulsome — but more pro ■fuse than that of any other man ?” 
The 
[ H J 
The question made me blush — but I assumed courage enough to proceed. — He is extremely handsome, I replied, and appears sensible and good tempered. — My father has approved of him — and, if you have no objection, I shall be happy to. give him my hand. 
■however forward this Speech may appear, it is easily accounted for, as I was really very anxious to be married, - — no uncommon cafe with youth and inexperience, — and I own my vanity Suggested it a great flight to my charms to have remained Jingle So long. 
Mr. dormer’s was the first offer I had ever had, and as my lister had miet with So many, when much younger than I was — 1 had my fears— — I might, if I lost this, never have another opportunity of marrying. 
My 
[ IS ] 
My mother Seemed sensibly affedfed a: t my readiness to accept of Dormer, though she endeavoured to conceal it. 
“Well, my love, ” Said she, “Since your wishes accord with your sather’s, I shall only give you this caution: — Be as little as possible with Mr. Dormer in your father’s or my absence, and if an early day is fixed on for your marriage, do not obje<fl to it.” 
But, my dear madam, have you no objection?? “you never repent, 
Fanny ?” Said she, and left the room. 
I was So affected by her manner and conversation, that I could not refrain from tears — and when I met my father at dinner, he noticed it to me. 
“What has your mama Said to you, Fanny ^I thought the prospefl of a 
hand” 
'[ .6 ] 
handsome husband, elegant house, genteel equipage, and fine clothes for a certain occasion, would have elated the 
Spirits of a young girl like you? -- -- -- I 
was going to reply, when Dormer ap. peared, dressed to greater advantage than I had ever Seen him : — I learned asterwards that he came by my lather’s appointment, from whom he had received an assurance of success. 
Coming up to me, and taking me by the hand — My lovely Fanny I why So, grave Said he — “can the thought of being Mrs. Dormer occasion this alteration? — but the Colonel has consented to your taking an airing with me this asternoon, and I hope you will return in. better Spirits..'” 
‘‘ Aye, ’’said my father, “I will trust her with you” — then turning to me— — “are very absurd, ” Said he, “and 
ought 
[ 17 I 
ought to know when you are well off; do not try his patience hefare marriage, lest he should put yours to the proof after'v — Then taking my hand and giving it to Dormer, — “There, ” Said he, “is your little wife eleds — use her kindly for your morley’s Sake.” — Dormer kissed my hand in raptures, and led me to the chariot. 
We had a most agreeable ride, and Dormer became more and more dear to me, as I imagined, every hour I was with him. — He generally came to our house in the morning, and remained until bedtime; but even this frequent Society did not Satisfy him, and he entreated that we might be married in a few days. — It was on the Friday he made the application for my father to name an early day. — On the tuesday following I very yrillitigky resigned my liberty. — I then became mistress of a 
very 
, [ .8 ] 
very elegant house — three carriages — besides palianquins, and a great number of servants. 
The Splendour which every person of any rank live in at Bengal, I am not able to give you, who have been accus tomed to the Englisti manners, any idea of — This pageantry is very attrading to a young mind, and it had Such an effect on mine, that it alleviated many cares that must attead a marriage with a man, that I too Soon discovered 1 did not love. 
Though Mr. Dormer was my first lover — it is with shame I rested he was not the last. — From the first month of my marriage, it became a fashion to admire me, and every new acquaintance added a lover to my train — Vanity certainly was my predominant passion. — Though 1 knew the impropriety — nay 
the 
[ 19 ] 
the criminality of listening to the praisea lavished on me by any man but my husband, I had not the resolution to treat them with that contempt which was consistent with my character as a wife. 
I take Heaven to witness! I never was criminal — yet I confess I was very, 
very imprudent -- -- 1 have chatted most 
familiarly in my hujband.s presence with the very man I knew he jealous of — and Suffered another to take a kiss before he left the room. these, and a thousand other coquettish levities, laid a foundation for a jealousy and disgust, which all my concessions and change of condutst could never eradicate — but I was too Severely, nay I was inhumanly punished for my conduct— — was so extremely jealous, that he confined me to my chamber for above six weeks, and when any cards of invitation were 
Sent 
t 20 ] 
Sent to me, he answered them unknown to me, by assuring the parties I was confined by Some violent disorder, and even entered into Such minute particulars of my case, that it was impossible for them to doubt the truth of his as sertions; he had a physician to attend me, and formed various Schemes to deprive me of even the Society of my o\yi^ relations. 
At the expiration of the time 1 mentioned, he Seemed to show Some signs of returning tenderness, and proposed I should accompany him to Major fortes cue’s, provided I would promise not to discover the falsehood of his reports of my illness. 
Had my inclinations led me to throw So great a stigma on his character, his menaces were Sufficient to prevent my betraying him. 
We 
Si 
[ 21 ] 
\ 
We accordingly went to my sister’s, and had not been tljerc' long, before Captdin Haliifax came in. 
He was formerly an admirer of my sister’s, and though her husband was not a stranger to the circumstance, he gave him a very pressing invitation to occupy an apartment in his house. 
Captain Haliifax appeared the whole evening very assiduous to please my sister— — could not refrain from meditating on the difference in the diipofition of her husband and mine — the former showing every Symptom of good-humour at attentions being paid to his wife, which if I bad received from any man, would probamy have endangered my life. This refiedlion uaturally induced me to frequently cast my eyes towards Captain H -- -- -- and Nancy. 
But 
[ 22 ] 
But thejaundiced imagination of Mr, Dormer attributed every glance at Captain H -- --, to proceed from a Sudden 
preference I felt for him — and I Suffered fresh Severities for daring to look at any person but my husband. 
On my return home, the impending storm burst over my head. — He Swore I had Seen the villain (Such was his epithet) more than once -- that our eyes 
perfectly understood each other’s language; but that as he could not obtain the proofs of my incontinence, he could not have Satisfaction— — he would at least avoid my making him the laughingstock of the whole fadtory, by Sending me over to England by the first ships. He again confined me to my old prison, and Suffered no person to See me, but himself and the black wo mem 
The 
[ 23 ] 
The threat of Sending me over to England, which you may perceive was intended as a punishment, was in reality the greatest kindness he could con ser on me; but I had art enough to sup press my joy, lest he should recall his intentions. 
My dear mother, I Sear, was not a stranger to the misery of my Situation, but would never believe her Fanny was the person in fault. Mr. Dormer prepared my friends for my departure, by pleading that my ill health rendered my stay in that climate impraflicable. The afflidlions of my mind for many months had indeed injured my constitution So much, that there was great reason for my friends to believe that his true motive for parting from me. He pro posed to my mother, sending me over to the care of Major fortescue’s brother, who was a married man, and resided at I Ox[ 
[ ] 
Oxford, and allowing me three hundred pounds a year. 
Just before the time fixed for my leaving India, my much lamented mother was Seized with a Spotted fever. So frequent and So fatal in .that country, which deprived her of her existence in few days after she was taken ill. — As the distemper was contagious I was not Sufferec^ to See her, but she left a paper sealed up, with an injundlion to my father to give it me after her death, doubt iess in hopes that the advice it contained, would have double weight with me, when my mind was Softened by affliction, the affliction I Severely felt, but I doubt you will judge I have not sufficiently profited by the advice. A fortnight after her death, my father, who wished to dispel the gloom which his recent and real loss had occasioned, came •to a determination to accompany me to 
Eng[ 
[ ] 
England. -- -- At the time I was to quit 
Bengal, Mr. Dormer was ordered up the country, which prevented a very disagreeable interview to us both. 
I Sorgot to tell you, that Delia had beenyent over to England the year before my marriage, and placed at avery capital School, to be instrutffed in every branch of polite and useful education. I believe Colonel Morley suspeded the real cause of my Separation from Mr. Dormer, but had too much delicacy ever to make any inquiries of me. 
Before my departure for England, Mr. Dormer wrote a letter to my father, in which he tells him, that on ressedion he thinks it would be more adviseahle to place me with a mr.^i^veland, an old friend of his from whom he had received many civilities, and who had obligingly acted as his agent, ever Since 
vol. I. ' C he 
C ] 
he had been in India: he concludes his letter in these words“ 
“Cleveland was a very amiable woman, and her father offered her to me for a wife; and though I declined an alliance With him, he never resented it, but has behaved to me in a very friendly manner: I now wish I had chose the prudent rather than the beautiful woman; but it is in vain to look back: I have been infatuated by your daughter, and shall never cease to love her while I have life.” 
The indelicacy of expressing these Sentiments to my father, needs no comment. On my arrival in England we landed at Southampton, and you remember came to your house that very night; when I Saw your Sister I could, not help wishing she had been honoured with my name. My Sather, who you 
know 
[ 27 1 
know took lodgings in the neighbourhood, promised to See me often, fully fensible that no Situation can be more ifksome than to be in a strange country (for I looked on Bengal as my native place), without a friend to whom I could communicate my astli6tions! — A gleam of comfort; arofei in my rriind from your delicate and well timed assiduities, that in Some degree reconciled me to my Situation, and made me hope I should, as 1 now do, look back on my former troubles as a dream I had just awoke from. 
I have nothing left to tell my beloved Lucy more than she already knows, except the motive for my quitting town. 
The last time we were together at the Pantheon, in company with Mr. Grenville, your lover: and your friend Mr, boswell, the former having left us for C 2 Some 
[ 28 1 
Some time, made an apology on his return, and Said very gallantly, you may remember that nothing ■ could have kept him So long from two of the loveliest women in the world, but an unexpected interview with his old acquaintance Captain Hallifax, of whose arrival in England he had not received any advice. — I was greatly disconcerted to hear he had left India, as it immediately occurred to me, Mr. Dormer would believe his coming over was a Scheme concerted between us. 
As I thought I should have leisure to write the History of my Life, when I had lost your loved Society, I declined entering into any particulars, when you. pressed So often to know the cause of my tears. 
I determined when 1 he, ard Captain Hallifax was arrived, not to hazard Mr. 
Dor 
I 29 ] 
dormer’s being informed we had ever Seen each other in England; 1 had often expressed my wishes to See Oxford, and as Mr. fortescue had wrote me a very pressing invitation to visit his wife, and as my Sister had married his bro; hr, I thought I could with great propriety make an excursion to See them, and at the Same time avoid an interview with Hallifax. these were my motives for .quitting town So abruptly, and you are likewise acquainted with my reason for fixing at Oxford. 
All I have now to hope Is, that I shall' remain here unnoticed by the men, (you may laugh if you will, but I am not So vain, nor Such a lover of flattery as you may think) of which you know there must be a great majority, and avoid feeing that man who unintentially has deprived me of the greatest felicity 1 C 3 have 
I 3° 1 
have ever experienced, the Society of my Lucy. 
As I think I have now entitled myself to a reciprocal confidence, I will dispatch this letter without any account of She family I am with, or what may be worth relating of this Scat of the Moses. 
When my cpriofity, which' ypir have excited, is gratified, I will then be particular in everything that occurs to me in this place; one information, as it will give you pleasure, I cannot omit mentioning, the family I am with pay greater attentions, and are more anxious to amuse me — in a word, I have received more friendly assiduities than I thought it possible to experience out of your father’s family. 
Make 
{ ] 
Make my kind remembrance to miss ^ Cleveland, and believe me what I really am. 
Your devoted, 
FANNY DORMER. 
LET. 
[ ] 
LETTER III 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. james’s ftreet, YOU have frequently given proofs of your discernment, by declaring that my “flights of gaiety were assumed, and that I was in reality unhappy, ” and you have shown more petulance at the Supposition of my having a concealment from you, than I recollect to have observed on any other occasion. After the unreserved confidence you have placed in me, you would have just reason to complain if I continued to have any reserves to you; I will then, my dear Fanny, even at the hazard of your good opinion, open my whole Soul to you. 
When 
[ s3 1 
When I have pressed you to disclofe to me the little anecdotes of yourself and Samily, you declined it from the laudable motive of concealing Some very palpable errors in your hushand’s conduit towards you, and though your conduct is not free from human frailties, or more properly Speaking, from female vanities yet his greater knowledge of the world and mankind, render him infinitely the most culpable. 
Any concealments. I have had from you have not proceeded from a want of confidence, but from the consciousness of my crime, which I could wish to conceal even from you; — yet you cannot have a doubt but my heart has experienced more than the dawnings of a tender passion, though I suppose you have So high an opinion of the rectitude and morality of my principles, that you think it impossible I should love a man C 5 who 
C 34 3 
who has already vowed fidelity to another. — I am interrupted. -- -- A message 
to Summon me to dinner. 
(rn C O N T I N UA T I O N.) 
The first object that presented itsels to me, was the too amiable boswell! — ^ You know my Sather regards him as one of the family, and my lister and myself have ever been instrufled to behave to him as to a brother. Soon after he was introduced to us, “That young man, ” ’ Said my father, “'possesses more good qualities than' I ever found centred im one man; his Sentiments are just; his manner peculiarly his own,, lofty and elegant; his language eloquent and harmonious;, he is benevolent and Sincere; and has all the accomplishments of a gentleman., and much knowledge as a fcholar. ^yet to prove that merit is not always rewarded, he has .been un 
for[ 
[ 1 
fortunate in his connexion with a woman, whose pretty face has infatuated 
him into a marriage. -- -- On many accounts 
that it may not be proper to acquaint you girls with, and which his own prudence Sees the propriety of, I have given Some hints that will prevent his ever introducing her to my daughters, ’’. 
Thus did my worthy father delineate the many virtues of a man, whom your poor Lucy already began to find too formidable. — My vanity had Suggested to me at the first interview, thaf I had made an equal impression on him — but when I heard he was already married! I was almost petrefied by the intel ligencc. 
On retiring to my room, I took a boost, but that was insushcient to drive the plea ling image from my mind, his figure — his manner — his Sentiments — C 6 were 
[ 36 ] 
were all I could attend to, and I even repeated what I had heard him Say, as' it were, Spontaneoufiy, instead of reading what was before me. — I Sat down to my, forte piano, but found it unharmonious;; took my pencil, but could paint only the dear figure whose idea ingroffed_ my whole mind; one of the (ketches I here inclose, but you who have Seen him, will perceive it is nor a good resemblance; the face cannot be eastly delineated, where there is more of Sentiment, than colour or proportion — the effect of the pencil is poor, and must ever fail, in a countenance that is light ed up in every feature by a great mind and an heart full of sensibility, 
I have neglected nothing to stop th.. of this fatal passion, but all my efforts have been vain; it Seems as if it were interwoven with my nature, and 
will. 
[ 37 I 
will, I fear, never Separate from my heart, but with my life! 
“Of all afhiftions tawght a lover yet, 
Tis sure the hardest science to forget I Unequal talk! a passion to resign. 
For hearts so touch’d, so pierc’d, so lost as mine! Ere such a soul regains it’s peaceful state. 
How often must it love, how often hate! 
How often hope, despair, resent, regret, 
Conceal, disdain— — all things but forget V 
You are not ignorant of the assiduities I have received from the worthy and agreeable Mr. Grenville; you have often expressed your astonishment at my not permitting him to apply to my farther for his permission to address me. — You have expatiated on his many amiable qualities, and wished me to become his wife. — I felt the force of your arguments — I am not blind to his many virtues — but I can never love him — the die is cast — and I am doomed to misery[ [ 

[ 38 ] 
Grenville has just been here. — After again urging his Suit, with all the ten derness and energy that might be expected from a feeling heart, and a good understanding, without making the impression on me he wished, and perhaps expected;; — declared he would tomorrow ash my father’s conlint to our union, and urge him to exert that influence over me, that his parental ten derness gave him a right to. Alarmed at this, I begged, I entreated him tore main Silent; but when I found he would take no denial, I ventured to tell him, my heart was not mme to give. After 1 had made this confession, I was .So abashed, and So overpowered by my feelings, that I could not refrain from tears. 
“Be not unhappy, ” Said he, “my much loved girl! do not think So unjustly of me to Suppose, after the generous. 
f 39 1 
rous, the liberal confeshon you have made, that I would accept your hand, much less Solicit it from Mr. Cleveland. Your heart was what I aspired to; though I was not destitute of fuspicion, that it was already bestowed — remember, I will no longer appear the lover, though 1 at present believe my regard for you of that nature, as to prevent any Second attachment. But as it may look particular to your father, should I absent myself Suddenly from your house, J will for Some time continue to visit you, but 1 shall find it necessary to wean myshlf by degrees from your Society, to enable me tosuppress all fonder feelings, and provd myself, when an opportunity shall offer, — your friend He then very considerately left me to give vent to the Sorrows of my heart. But you are not yet informed of the extent of my misery. 
-- My father has been with your 
asiatick acquaintance, Mr. Arlington, 
for 
[ 4° ] 
for these three days Succellively; on his return he employs hours in expatiating on his good qualities, and Splendid fortune. My Sister Said yesterday, I was a fortunate girl, and that my father had great expedations from my beauty and accomplishments. It was the first time I ever knew her conversation to be tinctured with Such gross flattery. I was alarmed, and was going to alk for an explanation of her words, but my father’s coming in prevented me. 
My fears are not yet Subfided, and my mind is So agitated with the thoughts of what may be proposed to me, that I must lay aside the pen. 
You will fimpathise with, but even you cannot console the unhappy, 
LUCY CLEVELAND; 
TED[ 
[ ] 
L E T T E R IV 
MRS. DORMER T O 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND. 
Oxford. 
UNFORTUNATE girl! what misery awaits you! — I have just received the inclosed frorn your father, I will defer replying to it, until I have your Sentiments on its contents. Of two evils — you know what I would Say. — » boswell has vowed fidelity to another; Suffer me to tell Mr. Cleveland, that you esteem Mr. Grenville, he is worthy tq beloved, let me plead your attachment to him, and you may then avoid being persecuted by a man, whom nothing but avarice and ambition could induce any woman to marry! 
Write to me immediately. 
LETI 
4a ] 
L E T T F R V 
MR. CLEVELAND 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
Madan .dst. james’s street. 
A S there isffo'stri6l: a friendship sub fisting between you and my daughter Lucy.. have taken the liberty to write to you on a Subject,, which a fond parent is most effentia: Ily concerwd. 
I am very far advanced in years, and as the education I have given my daughters, will be their only portion, I am extremely anxious to see them advan tageoussy Settled. — Any little matters I can Save, I shall reserve for my elder child, as the beauty of lucy’s person and her many accomplishments, enable, 
ant[ 
[ ] 
and entitle her to more in an exalted 
Sphere. -- -- They have indeed attracted 
your India acquaintance, Arlington, who applied to me last week for my consent, and to Solicit your influence with my girl to Savour his most generous proposal. 
Tell her, though he is jiekher young •nor handsome he ^fleffes many amiable qualities — tell her, lexcept the first fnentioncd recommendations, which can ■have no influence hut on weak minds, he ‘has everything but rank. — As a partial father, I think my girl deserves even a title. — But tell her, nowadays young, ■men of fashion Spend their fortunes before they come to them, in gaming and debauchery; consequently, they look out Sora rich wife, that may .enable them to purchase a pretty mistress. 
[ 44 ] 
But our Lucy is So blind to her own charms, that she looks not Sora, Settlement beyond her present Situation. 
You Semale friends know every movement of each others hearts — give me leave to alk my dear Mrs, Dormer, whether my girss affections are subservient to her father’s will, oris there any prior attachmentif there is, and the man is worthy of her, though he cannot put her in possession of that affluence which she will attain by becoming Mrs. Arlington; if there is a genteel Sufficiency, I will consent to their union. It shall never be Said I Sacrificed the happiness of my darling child from a mercenary motive — At the same time remember, 1 will never consent to her debasement. 
You now, my dear madam, are acquainted with my Sentiments -- -- 1 am 
slow 
[ 45 ] 
slow to determine, but when once re soived, I am unalterable. — I trouble you with this letter purposely to avoid making the inquiry of my Lucy; — a child from delicacy, and from Some degree of awe, cannot answer a parent’s interrogations; they are ashamed to say, “I am willing to marry when you please, Sir, ^’ — or, “I love another man better.’* — But I am convinced she has not a concealment from Mrs. Dormer; she must tell you all her Secrets, or how could she Send Such packets by every post? 
I have just received the bills of exchange from the india house, and will remit your quarter’s allowance by the next post; I shall not dedudt the ten pounds which Lucy Sent you, but shall place it to dormer’s account, as you may wish to make the family you are with Some present in return for their politeness. 
You 
[ 4« J 
You; will oblige she by answering the principal shbje(5t of this letter,, with that caridour which you have; been ever esteemed ffpry 
By your obedient humble Servant, ^ and Smccre friend, 
GEORGE CLEVELAND. 
LETI 
47 J 
LETTER VI 
MRS. DORMER 
TO 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND. 
Oxford. 
S U R E ly^lucy, you have not received my last letter, in which I inclosed one from your father, of So interesting a nature! — Yet you have hitherto Kad my letters Safe. — Perhaps you are ill, perhaps you cannot write. — If my fears' are just, why does not your Sister write? — Do, my dear girl, relieve me from a state of suspense — I fuppose a thousarld different causes for your Silence; I Suffer for you, and shall continue miserable until 1 can gain Some intelligence from, or, of my unhappy friend, 
FANNY DORMER. 
LET. 
[ 48 ] 
t, 
LETTER VII 
MISS CLEVELAND 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. james’s rreet. 
My dear Mrs. Dormer, 
OUR poor Lucy has been very dangeroufiy ill with a Sever, and at the time your first letter arrived was quite delirious. 
We called in Doctor H — at the first of her disorder, who gave us very little’hopes of her recovery; he ordered her to be bled immediately, and then to be blistered : — My father,, who was watching by her bedside, ordered me to dispatcli a Servant to request Mr. bof well to come immediately, for, Said he, 
turning 
I 49 ] 
turning to Doctor H -- -- -- -, I have a great 
opinion of that young man’s abilities ^ 
as a Surgeon, and should prefer him to bleed my poor girl. 
Lucy, whom we supposed too weak to move without assistance, immediately raised herself in bed, and catching hold of my fiither’s hand, “Ah, Sir 1” 
Said she, bursting into a flood of tears, 
, “he is married already /” — and then Sunk down in the bed in a fainting fit. 
We were in a state of equal surprise as distradtion, not being able to account for the dear girl’s exclamation. 
After Mr. Boswell entered the room, her senses seemed gradually to return; he was much affected at the melancholy Scene, and at observing my father struggle to suppress his grief, I saw him first look at Lucy, and then turn aside his face to weep; I thought to be sure fly 
vol. I. D must 
[so ] 
must be dying, or a mere intimate in the family could never be So much affedfed. after a moment’s pause, he took her hand; I Saw him give it a gentle pres sure, which, if I am not mistaken, she returned. 
As she was by this time a little recovered, my father proposed her being bled; but boswell Said the melancholy Scene he had been a witness to, had af fedfed him So much, that he was incapable of performing the operation. — Doctor H. then Said, that as the blisters bid fairest to produce an alteration for tll^hetter, he was in hopes there would not be a necessity for any person to bleed her, but as quietness would be the greatest restorative, he advised every person but me to leave her. 
boswell immediatelyquitted the room, and the rest followed the example; 
when 
[ Si ] 
when they were gone, she called me to her bedside. 
My brain, Said she, is Something easier, and my senses are clear, which I believe they have not been for Sometime. Indulge me now with the sight of my dear fanny’s letters; I have Some faint idea there was one came at the first of my illness, and as she has not received any answer to it, her friendly anxiety, I' amcertain, hasinduced her to writeagain; I hope you have opened them, and relieved her from a state of suspence 1 told her I had opened the last letter, and had began to reply to it; that the first had been given to my father, but that she need not alarm herseif, for I was very certain he would deliver it to her un opened, when he thought her well enough to read it. 
D 2 Fetch 
[ 52 ] 
Fetch it immediately. Said she, and tell him a letter from my Fanny will half effect my cure. 
I then procured her your letter, wherein you inclosed that from my lather, which he had not opened. 
This uncommon generosity and delicacy from a parent, Said she, shall not go unrewarded! 1 will reveal my miserable story to him, and not add dissimulation to the rest of my crimes. 
She then gave me the letters to read, and made an apology for having kept me So long ignorant of the state of her heart; but, laid she, you shall never again have reason to complain of me. During my delirium, 1 perceive I exposed myself; but my resolution is now fixed, and I will conquer my weakness, or die in the attempt. 
She 
[ 53 ] 
She intends writing to my father, for she Says after what her delirium has discovered to him, she cannot Support an interview, until she has merited his for giveness. 
I have made her promise not to write to you until the next post, upon giving my word she shall then be at liberty to use her pen, in spite of all the dodtor’s prohibitions. 
As I propose resigning this tash to your amiable but unfortunate Lucy, 1 shall not add any more, than that you have a very Sincere friend, 
and well wisher, in 
MARIA CLEVELAND. 
D 3 L E .D 
[ 54 ] 
LETTER Vm. 
HENRY BOSWELL, ESQ 
TO 
JOHN DEL MONT, ESQ Loadon; 
Y O U are not ignorant of the connexion that has subsisted between me and Nancy Collins; it is now four years finceour first intimacy; you may remember I told you, that on her assuring me she was pregnant (which by the bye was false), I promised her she should appear as my wife, and I introduced her to many of my acquaintance as Mrs. bos well. The report was Soon buzed abroad that I had married my mistress, and it prevented my introducing her to Some of my friends. 
Mr. 
[ 55 ] 
Mr. Cleveland was one who could Scarce believe I had married her, for he knew her family, and entertained too good an opinion of me, to think I would enter into an alliance with them. 
He requested me, on account of his daughters, not to introduce her in his family; he Said he had told them I was married, but not happily, and particular reasons rendered it improper for me to introduce Mrs. boswell into their company. 
This (Said he laughing) will prevent the girls Setting their caps at Such a handsome young fellow! (observe I repeat his words) in short, I value your heart, and love your company, boswell, but I must have none of your wives, that have been mijtrejj'es, introduced to. my daughters. ' 
D 4 rea 
I s6 ] 
I readily complied with this request of his, for indeed Nancy had nothing to recommend her but a handsome face, and as the novelty of that was pretty well over with me, I was glad to keep old Cleveland, whose opinion I valued, ignorant of her deficiencies. 
I believe I have told you, that Mrs. Cleveland has been dead Several years, and that her eldest daughter, who keeps her father’s house, has been a mother to the charming Lucy! in every respedl but that of bringing her into the world. 
miss Cleveland is near thirty, she has a good figure, and an agreeable countenance, and may be noticed, perhaps, by Some man who has never beheld her Sister. 
Lucy is not quite eighteen, she is not tall enough for what the world calls a 
fine 
[ 57 1 
fine woman, but her shape is So finely Sormed, that you may justly style her person elegant. Her features, though not perfectly regular, are all expressive of the Soul within, but her eyes and mouth are distinguishedly beautiful. 
The first time I Saw her, I thought I. should have gazed foreveron her charms, her attractive person reminded me of alonza’s exclamation! 
Who turn’d this slender waill with so much art,. And ftiut perfeflion in so small a ring? 
Who spread that pure expanse of white above, 
On which the dazzled sight can find no rest j But, drunk with beauty, vv^anders up and down Forever, and forever finds new charms? 
But O those eyes! those murderers! O whence. Whence didst thou steal their burning orbs? 
From Heaven? thou didst, and’tis religion to actors them, ” 
D 5 The 
[ 53 ] 
The disparity in their ages, and want of Simularity in dispositon, is the occasion of that rescrve I have observed to subsist between the two Sisters, and Seems to prevent Lucy treating miss Cleveland, with confidence or familiarity. — But there is a Mrs. Dormer arrived from Bengal, vsho immediately fixed her eye on my Lucy (I mean that is to be) for the confidant of all her ftcrets., and I suppose Lucy reveals hers in return; nay she must, for I never go but she is writing to her, and I never miss a day, that I can possibly form an excuse for going. 
You know I have often told you, that I would Settle half my fortune on you (were I possessed of any), to get sight of lucy’s letters to her friend. — She has refused Grenville, who has paid his addresses to her for near two years, and 1 cannot learn that there is any man she 
shows 
E 59 1 
shows a partiality for. In short, I am « in a very cruel state of suspense, but I will, by Some means, endeavour to find out the motive she assigned for rejedling Grenville. 
When I can attain the wished for in sormation, you shall hear Sarther from 
Your, 
H, BOSWELL, 
d6 LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER IX 
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME. 
^ dean ftreet. 
I WENT last night to my club at the shakespeare, and on inquiry found Grenville had dined there with a few friends, and that they were expected back to Sup with us; — but very fortunately none of the members attended besides myself, and his friends had declined returning with him.: — “We have been to half a play together, ” Said he, “but they have all taken their flight different ways.” ” 
I told him I was heartily glad of it, as I wanted half an hour’s tete-a-tete with him. 
“Gome 
[ 6i 3 
“Come — Pil bet you a rump and dozen, ” Said he, “I guess the questions you are going to ash! — I have told you 1 doted on the charming Lucy! and I will not keep you in suspence respedl ing my success with her — though as you cannot be a party much concerned, we may as well eat our Supper first, for, by Heaven! my vivacity forsakes me, and the recolledlion of my last interview with her, quite unmans me.” 
Then you have not been successful 1 I cried (with the impatience natural to one in my Situation). 
“There is Something So wild in your aspedl, ” Said he, “that out of pure compassion to your senses, I must relieve you; I have not. — She declared she esteemed me as a friend, wished I was her brother (more than I do Harry); but that she could not accept my generous 
r 6a ] 
rous offer, knowing herself to be unworthy to be my wife. — You may believe I was not to be put ofi' thus — I declared I would apply to her father the next day, and promised to abide by his determination; I really meant what I Said. When she perceived me So determined, she burst into tears, and de. dared her heart was not hers to give’ — • When she had made this declaration, she was So overcome, that had I not Supported her in my arms, she would certainly have fallen. — I told her I had long suspeded what she had confessed, that I would leave her at present, and for the future promised to endeavour to fuppress all fonder feelings, and prove myself her friend. 
“I go there very Seldom, and I will avoid Seeing her as much as possible; though my disposition is Such, that a disappointment of this kind will not 
kill 
I 63 1 
kill me, yet I will not Subjedb myself to the mortification of gazing on a jewel I cannot get the possession of, ” 
Now, Delmont, though in my heart I pitied Grenville, I cannot help congratulating myself on my good fortune. 
I suspedled by many hints which he tlirew out, he looked on me as the obstacle to his wishes. After I revealed to him the true state of my connexion with Nancy Collins, and he had got the better of the Surprise my information had occasioned, he Said, he had long suspedled lucy’s attachment was to mcy that he firmly believed her depressure of Spirits proceeded from the great confiift in her mind, in believing I was a mar -- ried man. 
Now 
[ 64 ] 
Now, my friend, if you consider how I am Situated, you ought to be very gratesul to me, for giving you So much of my time, but do not expect to hear from me again, till I have packed Nancy off to her relations, and relieved my lucy’s mind from its present anxiety. — * 
Ever most Sincerely yours, 
HENRY BOSWELL. 
L E T[ 
[ J 
L E T T E R X.’ 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. jaraes’s street. 
HEAVEN has restored me to the fond wishes and ardent prayers of an indulgent parent, and permitted me once more to write to you my invalua able friend! 
I have had an interview with my father, which I thought when my lister wrote to you, would have been too much for my Spirits, in their present agitated state, to have Supported. 
On restedlion, I thought it would be absurd to write to a person who was in 
the 
[ 66 ] 
the Same house, I therefore attempted to unbosom my whole heart, and endeavoured to describe to him the distressed state of my mind. — I Succeeded beyond my expectations. 
On the first day that I quitted my chamber, I told him if he would be at leisure that evening, I would give him my determination on the Subject of his letter to you. 
‘‘i I am very glad she has Sent it to you, ” Said he, “and I hope it has proved as I intended; an agreeable way of acquainting you with my Sentiments: but I could wish to hear your determination nowy as I shall See Mr. Arlington this evening, and I cannot avoid coming to an eclairciffement: it is now Several months since he Solicited an alliance with you, and your indisposition, only could have excused this delay. 
I then 
f 67 ] 
I then told him how very Sensible I was of his tenderness and condescention, in consultirig my inclinations where his, and (he undoubtedly thought) my interest was So materially concerned; that there was not a thought of my heart, 
, that I would not immediately make him acquainted with. — “It is no more than 1 have hitherto, and will in future deserve” ” he: “but proceed.” — 
I then told him Mr. Grenville had long exerted his endeavours to gain my heart; that, wearied with my continued indifference, he had at length determined to apply to him, to use his influence with me, in his favour; in hopes that if his Solicitations were Supported by parental authority, it would induce me to accept of him; but when I candidly owned my affections were engaged, he promised to relinquish all pretensions as a lover, and declared 
after 
[ 68 3 
after Such a confession on my part, he would not accept my hand, were even my father to Solicit it. — Mr. Grenville, Sir, is too amiable a man to be deceived, 'and indeed he Seemed thankful for the ingenuous manner in which I had treated him. 
My father interrupted me, by saying Mr. Grenville was worthy of my heart, but an alliance with Mr. Arlington was what he wished, and should expect, unless the object of my affections was in Such a situation, with respedt both to rank and circumstances, as a parent, anxious for the welfare of his child, would be justified in accepting. “In that cafe, my much loved girl!” Said he, “I will crush my ambitious hopes, relinquish Arlington, and consent to your union with him your heart has made choice of, ” 
This 
‘ [ 69 ] 
This was the moment, Fanny, when my resolution was almost staggered. My father Saw the conflict of my mind. — “Are you ashamed to name the object of your regard? why do you delay your own happiness, by keeping me ignorant of the power of completing it? Is he a villain or a beggar? — Yet it is impof sible, if he was either, you should love him.” 
Ah, dear Sir! said I, he is neither — " But — but — he is married already. — “Married !” he exclaimed, “Then he is a Seducer! a villain! — What! he has Sworn he was Single when he gained your heart, and now avows his marriage, that, he may have you on easier terms !” — Then Softening his voice, — “And can my Lucy, my almost revered Lucy! — you who have been fet as a pattern for all your young acquaintance, love and encourage Such a villain? 
I was 
I 7° ] 
I was So affected by Such tender epithets, when I knew they were unmerited, that I had Scarce resolution to undeceive him, but aster a short pause, Mr. boswell (he started at the name), you will allow is no beggar, and I am Sure he is no villain; perhaps he has been unfortunate, but not criminal. — From the moment you introduced him into our Samily, my heart conceived a regard for him, that not all my prayers to heaven, nor the Systems of morality you have engraven on my mind, could ever eradicate! As to his Sentiments, I most Solemnly declare, I am to this day a stranger to them; had you not told me he was married, I should never have known it from him: it is a Subject he has studioussy avoided to enter upon. — At the Same time, I firmly believe our attachment is reciprocal, but 
it is only my conjecture. -- - ^ 
You 
[ 71 ] 
You are now informed of the miserable Situation of my heart; but I will, as I have declared to my Sister, conquer my. weakness, or die in the attempt! — While I remain Single, I shall not look on my passion So very criminal, as I shall when I have vowed fidelity to another. I cannot think of marrying Mr. Grenville, after the confession I have made to him; besides, he is worthy of an undivided heart. — But as Mr. Arlington is ignorant of my attachment, and by report does not poffess a great share of delicacy — if it is, or rather as it is, your pleasure, I am ready to become his wife whenever you think fit. — If it must be. Said I, do not delay it, my heart may oppose my resolutions — and if I deliberate long, 1 may,, by my want of resolution to persist in Such a Sacrifice of inclination to duty, become more unworthy your regard. 
My 
I 
[ 72 1 
My father expressed great Satisfadlion at my pointing out the means of obliterating my unhappy passion. Said, he should that evening See Mr. Arlington, and give him an invitation to his house; that he had no reason to fear a delay on his part, for he was assured, the writings only waited to be filled up; “To Say truth, ” continued my father, “I have Seen the propositions, and my Lucy will poffess every elegance of life.” 
This trying scene— — cruel conssidl between a Scene of propriety and inclination, this violence I had done to my heart and feelings, had Such an effect on my weak nerves, and Scarce recovered state of Spirits, that I found myself grow So faint, that I thought it time to put an end to the conversation, and begged my father’s permission to retire. 
Thus 
t 73 ] 
Thus, my Fanny, stand matters at present. — I suppose I shall, if Mr. Arlington should approve, make the voluntary Sacrifice very shortly. I was going to add — pity me; but I retradt, I need no greater consolation, than the Sa > my heart feels at having acted right.late illness has So much depressed my Spirits, that 1 will finish my letter, lest I should infect you with my melancholy. 
Farewell, my dearest friend! may your prospeds beshappier, dian those of 
LUCY CLEVELAND. Voti. E LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XI henry BOSWELL, esqi 
T O 
JOHN DELMONT, ESQ;, 
dean ftreet. 
LUCY! my charming, my adorable Lucy! has been very dangeroussy ill. — Cleveland (who has had a very high opinion of me in my proseshon, ever since I was called in, when he had the accident I mentioned in my * letter to you) ordered me to be Sent for to bleed his poor girl — My God! I shall never forget the Scene; but I will relate the particulars of one So very affecting to her family, and So very interesting to your boswell, when we meet. I can only Spare time at present to tell you, 
• Which letter does not appear. 
the 
[ 75 ] 
the dear girl loves me. The Sweet languor in her eyes — her agitation on my approaching the bed — my gentle pres sure of her hand, So delicately, yet tenderly returned; all — ail conspire to tell me I am beloved! — beloved by Such! — “Ye princes of the world, how I look down upon your grandeur V — Thank God she is perfefuy recovered, and a thousand times more delicate (if more delicate she can be) than before her ill ness. If it should be as Grenville sus peds, she was not, I fancy, displeased at my late attentions'; but as I am pretty Secure from her running away from me, I shall defer declaring my regard for her to her father, until I return to town; for when I have got rid of Nancy, and put other matters en train, I shall have no more obstacles to impede my happi ness. I shall have no difficulty to per suade old Cleveland I am not married to Nancy, as I have told you he h 2 always 
[ 76 ] 
always Seeffled to have his doubts. — •! have no qualms of conscience.respeding my intended conduct towards Nancy, as I believe a good settlement will amply compensate for the loss of me; indeed she has had reason to complain of my indifference; for, from the time I became acquainted with my lucy’s per shn and elegance of manners, I have looked on her in a very contemptible light; but what I could never forgive, was the deceit she put on me respecting her pregnancy. Fool that I was! to ever Suffer her to go by the name of 
Your, 
HENRY BOSWELL' 
i 
LETI 
77 1 
LETTER Xir. 
MRS. DORMER 
T O 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND. 
newman place, Henley, 
HO W very few in your Situation, Lucy, would have acted as you have! 
for admitting your conduct is no more than was to be expected from a girl of yeur principles to Jucha father! — yet there is a merit, as the world goes, in even doing what is right. 
I only wish, before you precipitate yourself into this marriage, that you would give yourself Some time to make yourself acquainted with the dispofition of the rnan you are to Spend your days 
E 3 with 
: [ 78 ] 
with. re peruse the History of my Life. 
— 1 married precipitately a man I too Soon discovered I did not love; could I now Say I am a stranger to that passion, my letters would be still dated from Oxford. 
I mentioned before I left London, an intention of coming here before I returned, but I had then no idea of staying So short a time at Mr. so'rtescue’s. 
Ah, Lucy! 1 have had too many opportunities of discovering the many amiable qualities that Mr. Sedgwick possesses— — Saw him the Second day after my arrival at Oxford, I found he was extremely intimate in the family, and that Mr. fortescue had allotted an apartment in his house for him, whenever he chose to accept it; his inclination prompted him to occupy it, the ' first night we Saw each other, and he 
did 
[ 79 ] 
did not absent himself one evening during my stay. His person is very agreeable, though I do not think he has any just claim to be called handsome, yet the tout enfemhle., is inexpressibly pleasing— — is not only sensible, but has a great deal of ready wit, and a vein of humour runs through his conversation, which entitles him, as I am informed, to the appellation oy a choice spirit, among the many who covet his company— — has been brought up to the church, and is now fellow of St. john’s College; I am told his father left him a Small fortune, which he has nearly Spent, shut that he has Sufficient interest to gain good preferment. Among the traits I have observed in his character, I cannot, without deviating from truth, say prudence is his prevailing disposition. One recent instance I shall give you, when I tell you, he Seemed to have no more hesitation to declare he was dis e 4 tradedly 
[ 8o ] 
tra<stedly fond of me, than if I had been single— — confess I found him very attracting, and perhaps I may have been unguarded enough, to let him perceive I listened with too much pkasure to his conversation. I do not pretend to be a stoic, and I confess I find my mind Soothed by his attentions and ashduities; I believe, nay 1 am Sure it was ill judged to give him room to suppose me partial to him; but I think he has too much generosity to make an improper advantage of Such a discovery. I kept him ignorant of iny Sentiments for many weeks after he confessed his regard for me; but a letter, which I received last week from my lister at Bengal, informs me that Mr. Dormer is in So bad a state of health, that the physicians think the next ships must bring an account of his death; this gave me a gleam of hope — indeed, in a letter which he has written, he tells me that I shall very Soon 
be 
E 8i J 
be at liberty to give my hand to halll fax, unless reports are true, and that we have played the fool together already. 
conscrous of the propriety of my conduct in taking every possible precaution to avoid an interview with the object of his jealousy! you must think I had just eause to be irritated at Mr. dormer’s groundless suspicions, shocked at the malevolence of reports So injurious to my reputation, I could not rerefrain from tears. — I had Seated myself on a bench in the most retired part of the garden, and was re perufing the letter which had occasioned my unhap piness, when Sedgwick Suddenly appeared; catching hold of my hand wdth ecstasy, he exclaimed, “my angel! my Fanny! why do you weep? to make you still more lovely? thinking with Taunv, that woman is 
e5 — Sa[ 
[ ] 
“So properly the object of affli£iioit, 
That Heaven is pleas’d to make distress become Her, and dresses her most amiable in tears.” 
“Or ha? your husband threatened you with Some new barbarity P 
That you shall judge of, I replied, and immediately gave him the letter. — ■ After he had read it, “What a suspi cious villain is this husband of yours!” Said he, “but Since he can Sioop to harbour Such gross thoughts,, even let him find them true!” — Hesthen caught me in his arms, and absolutely kissed me until I was almost Suffocated, indeed he Seemed So totally lost to every delicacy, that had not Mrs. fortescue and another lady appeared in sight, I know not to what length he might have extended his insults. 
When 
[ 83 1 
When he perceived them coming up to us, he Suffered me to withdraw myself from his arms. 
“Ah 1” Said he, “before you leave me. Seal my pardon! and tell me, if Dormer should die, whether 1 may not hope to find you kind? may I not then hope to view my wife in my lovely Fanny 
There was a time, said I, when you had reason to hope for everything a virtuous woman could grant; 1 fear there has been too little indifference in my conduct towards you — But, however imprudent I may have been, in not stopping the progress of an illicit attachment, my future conduct will, I hope, make Some reparation for my former imprudencies. 
E 6 “’spite 
[ 84 ] 
’spite of all your prudish moralising, you are a charming woman !” Said he, “but forgive me, and I will be whatever you wish me.” 
From liplike those what precept fails to move.” 
Have done with your herokks. Said L and be assured you are become very contemptible in my opinion, and that I shall never Subject myself to a repetk tion of your insults. 
When Mrs. fortescue came up to us, he took his leave with all the Semblance of respedt, as if no altercation had passed between us. 
I told her I had received a very press ing invitation from Mrs. Newman, to Spend a short time with her at Henley, as she expected to lie in every day. — So far was true, though I should not have 
ac[ 
[ ] 
accepted it, if Sedgwick had not taken off the mass and So grossly insulted me; but I thought this an excellent opportunity to show him I could exist without his company, and that I intended to avoid him — he went the next morning to Blenheim with a party from London, and I took the opportunity of his absence, to quit my friends at Oxford, who kindly expressed much concern at parting with me. 
1 am now with the lively, agreeable, Mrs. Newman, who married in India about the time I did, and came over to England really on account of her health. 
This indispofition, which alarmed her fond husband, proved to be the effeifi: of her pregnancy, which the praditi oners there never, suspeded. 
She is a little woman, not very pretty, but more agreeable than many women 
[ 86 ] 
men that are handsome; she has very Sprightly eyes; but her Shape is what is most admired, it does irideed appear to’ be “moulded by the finger of perfection.” Do not be displeased with my quotation, for though they were bos well’s words in describing my lucy’s form, it was I adapted them to Mrs. Newman. She Says she shall never be the cheerful creature she has been, until Mr. Newman comes to England, though I think myself, it is impossible to have a greater flow of Spirits. 
Now, Lucy, you are informed of my errors, my reformation, and my present situation. I have been very minute in my recitals, as I know you cannot be indifferent to anything that concerns. 
Your most sincere and affectionate, FANNY DORMER. 
LET 
[ 87 ] 
LETTER XIII 
MR. SEDGWICK 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, E S 
Oxford. 
YOU will neither be guilty of a falsehood, nor an impropriety, if you tell me I have neglected my friend, in not writing you word, how affairs go on between me and the married charmer, as you very emphatically called her in your * letter. In that you received from me, I left you no room to doubt the havoc the gypsy has made in your friend’s heart; but 1 have reserved until now, one piece of intelligence, which I 
f Which letter does not appear. 
fancy 
[ 88 ] 
fancy will not a little surprise you, — that she is off, absolutely gone! — ssed from the Seat of the muses, and from her adoring Sedgwick 1 — Yes, Charles, it is from wte, she has fled, shut if she thinks to escape me So! she will find "'herseif mistaken; I know her Sex too well, and fiie has her share of their va.. nities and foibles; but what care I for that? — I love a woman, nor wish I for a goddess— — few lover like attentions, and pursuing her to her friends at Henley (the asylum she has fied to), villas once Seal my pardon. Pray, Grenville, what do you think occasioned this elopement? my presumption in stealing a few kisses from the prettiest mouth in the world! — your lucy’s not excepted. — She had just received a letter from Dormer, in which he tells her, he shall not be long in this woidd, and Says she will then be at liberty to give her hand to hallifax, if they have not (as report 
says 
[ 89 ] 
Says of them) played the fool together already, — She showed me this letter, and called forth the ready tear (women you know can weep at pleasure), and lamented her hard fate at being So unjustly censured, and Said she could not be more cruelly treated if she was really criminal. I confess I did urge her to realise her hushand’s ideal suspicions, by way of alleviating the distress she Seemed to feel at being falsely accused; this was the pretended cause of my offence j but what other behaviour can any woman expect who complains of her hushand’s ill treatment, to a man who has avowed himself her lover ^ — IHAVE too great a Spirit of qiiixotism in my disposition, to Suffer females wrongs to go unre dreffed, and I meant to reward her by my kindnesses for all her hujband.s cru ‘elcies. 
You 
[ 90 ] 
You inquired why she came down here? — it was to avoid an interview (as she Says) with Captain Hallifax, but upon my Soul, it is a piece of prudence of which I do not believe her capable: the idea is truly laughable! that she ® whole rulingpajfton is vanityshould quit London to avoid Securing a conquest! 1 will venture to affirm, she will avow penchant for any man, that will Sweeten his conversation with the Syrup of adulation. — I suppose we shall not be pleasured with your company at the anniversary, now this magnet is no longer here. I shall be at Henley in the course of next week, where, if you will give me the meeting, you may be witness to the charms of reconciliation. — She certainly thinks I mean to marry her, when there is a. vacancy! ha! ha! — no — no, my dear conceited pretty one, I think - with Don Diego, “wedlock’s a pill! bitter to Swallow, and hard of digestion.” 

[ 91 ] 
tiond’ — For tho’ I remember the great shasteshury recites, that when Sacrifices were offered to Juno (who presides over marriages), the gall of the victim was thrown behind the altar; to show, I sup pose, that no Such thing ought to be known in the married state. Now as I believe that gall will arise between any two beings in the world, that are tied and bound by the chains of matrimony! nothing less than twenty thousand (a Sum necessary to gi/i the pill), shall ever entitle a woman to call herself my wife. 
Delia Morley, half Sister to my pretty Fanny, was here a short time Since with her father; she is a very elegant girl! and if Fanny should keep me dangling after her, without granting the reward I look for, this Delia will be a lovely Substitute — but why talk of 
Sub[ 
[ ] 
Substitute? I have not hitherto been unsuccessful in my affairs of gallantry, why should not both Sisters be subser vient to the wishes of 
Your, 
GEORGE SEDGWICK, 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LET e; R XIV 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND 
TO 
MRS. DORMER; 
St. james*s ilreet, 
My dearest Fanny, 
YOU have been on the edge of a precipice, and nothing but your well timed retreatcould have Saved you from falling. respedting your unfortunate attachment to Mr. Sedgwick, however ill it may become the unguarded Lucy to arraign your conduct, it is my duty to lead you from that path, which So fatally drew me astray. I am shock’d when I reflect, that you, who are both chaste and delicate! — you who are already married I could Suffer Mr. Sedgwick, or indeed any man, to believe you had a more than 
common 
[ 94 1 
common regard for him; I am a recent and a fatal proof, that our affections are not in our power; but I have my doubts, whether your heart has ever been under the influence of a more tender attachment than friendship; you have ever been too susceptible of the pleasure arising from your love of adu lation i and that pleasing sensation you have mistaken for a tenderness, that it would be a profination to call true love. Sedgwick has, I fuppose, confessed the power of your charms, — even this, as you are circumstanced, ought to have been considered as an insult — but did he ever compliment you on your heart and understanding? and why not? be cause he Saw that vanity was the prevailing passion of your heart, and that it received gratification, by the approbation his eyes discovered for yow'e fer fonal attractions. Tell me ingenuoussy, did your heart ever feel an emotion at the 
Sight 
I 95 ] 
Sight of that man, who had not extolled your beauty? or did one among the number of your asiatick admirers, which you have mentioned as your misfortune to attradf, ever attempt to assign any motive for loving you, but the ro mantick one, of the influence of your dl vine eyes, which badrivetted them in your chains, and rendered them your slaves for ever? 
Indeed, Fanny, you would be a very charming woman, and your mind would be lovely as your person, were it not for that vein of coquetry, that fond ness for admiration, which I am Sorry to Say, is but too deeply implanted in your disposition: : I blame you, I at the Same time mingle pity with that blame; you are very faulty, but the original error, was in carrying you at Such an early age into a country, where there was no mediocrity in manners — 
nothing 
[ 96 J 
nothing rational — nothing domestlck — * as I learn, ever employs hvomen in that enervating climate; you are there either on the bed of fickness, or in Scenes of dissipation; the Scarcity of women too, gives an additional keenness to the passions of the men. The natives arc So great a soil to the English ladies (in the opinion of the Europeans), that any of the latter, that are not absolutely disgusting, are idolised as divinities. ^ But to return to the subject of your letter. 
In not loving the man you have married, you are greatly to be commiserated, and your loving another, is a considerable aggravation of your misfortune; but to encourage sedgwick’s as liduities, to give him reason to think you have a regard for him (which, for reasons I have already hinted, I hope I am right in believing you never felt), 
is 
I 97 ] 
is beyond being imprudent — it is criminal. You have quitted oxsord, So Sar was right; but do you think he will be ‘so easily denied? that he will not follow you? I will hope that you will be very circumspedt in your conduct; ressedt on the satissaflion you derive from the con sciousness of your own innocence, when you hear of Mr. dormer’s suspicions that are So injurious to your charadter. in romances you may read of girl dying martyrs to an ill placed or hopelesi passion: could one believe it ever to happen, it must be its effect on a weak mind, born away by the first impulse of the passion: too irresolute to call reason to their aid, they fink, and often fah, without the Small merit of a faint resistance. — If you should have an interview with Mr. Sedgwick, remember what is due to yourself— — with dignity., not rudeness, the lat ter will appear the effcdt of petulance., vol. I. F the 
[ 98 ] 
the former that of a virtuous mind. Danger consists chiefly in opinion; be not afraid of yourself, and you will have nothing to apprehend. 
I do not doubt but you are anxious to know if I have had the intended visit from Mr. Arlington. He has been with us every evening Since I last wrote to you. — He is turned of forty, but by a regular course of life, he has preserved a good constitution, and a very florid completion. The only proof he gives of an advancement in years, is by his prudence and experience. His manner is more Sincere than courteous, and he is destitut^of that tenderness which we look for in a lover. My father very kindly represented him to me as a very different man to what I have found himj for, as far as my judgement can penetrate, Mr. Arlington is not only a very worthy charater, but in many respeds 
, a very 
C 99 ] 
a very agreeable man; and, if I know my own heart, I will exert every power to please him, and render myseif the agreeable companion. 
He has purchased a house in harley street, which will be ready for his, I mean our reception, the latter end of next week. Most likely I shall, before the expiration of that time, jb^come his wife. — My God! what am I doing.? — the blotted paper will inform you. — ^ Ah, Fanny! you who know the situation of my heart, tell me if it is not cxcusable; ratherthan condemn my weakness! 
“See, while I write, my words are lost in tears! The less my sense, the more ray love appears : 
No lime the dear remembrance can remove, 
For, oh! how vast a memory has love ?” 
Fanny! — I shall not invite you to be present' when I give my hand to a man F 2 I can 
[ 100 ] 
I can only esteem — it is enough for you to hear of my wretchedness; and the most convincing proof I can give of my heartfelt regard for you, will be depriving myself of your loved Society (at a time I am Sure I could command it), rather than have you witness to the Sacrifice of inclination to duty and the cruel conflidls of. 
Your 
LUCY CLEVELAND. 
LET[ 
[ 1 
letter XV 
HENRY BOSWELL T o 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, E S delmont hall. 
CHARLES! if you have any compassion for the ill-fated Boswell, write me an immediate account of my Lucy. 
I have heard she is married — how I gained the intelligence, it is neither material, nor shall I now Spare time to inform you. — Though you will not chuse to go to cleveland’s, you can certainly gain every intelligence at Mrs. newman’s, the intimacy that fubsists between you, will permit you to go to her F 3 house 
[ j02 ] 
house without invitation; but what makes it the more likely channel for intelligence, is Mrs. dormer’s being there; from her you can know whether there is any foundation for the report of lucy’s marriage — I am on the rack, I am distrafled until I can know what has given rise to Such a report! what adds to my distress, is my present confinement, occasioned by a fall from my horse. — Nancy is dispofed of — 1 cannot enter into particulars at present— — by the return of the post— — your letter may realise all my fears, it will at least relieve me from a weight of suspense, 
H. BOSWELL. LET. 
[ 103 ] 
LETTER XVI 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ. 
T O 
MR. S E D G W I C K. 
grafton flreet. 
‘ 1 H A V E received yostr letter, but 1 wish I had never Seen it. The vein S libertinism which runs through every line of your letter, justly entitles you to the censure of every man whose principles are not as abandoned as your own. — Indeed, George the avowal of semi ments So injurious to that Sex, which a Something implanted in our natures, prompts us to proted, has greatly depreciated you in my esteem, my heart, recoils at Sedudion. 
F 4 Even 
[ J ] 
“Even prefertj in the very lap of love, 
Inglorious laid j while muficlc flows around, Perfumes, and oils, and wines, and wanton hours j Arhid the roses fierce Repentance rears Her snaky crest, a quick returning pang Shoots throvgh the confeious heart. — 
Though I have Seen Mrs. Dormer Srequently, yet I know little of her, I was at that time too much taken up with contemplating My lucy’s charms, to attend much to her friend’s charatster; but the few observations I did make, oblige me to agree with you, that lovi of adulation is the ruling passion of her heart: this foible is too likely to lead her in a thousand imprudencies, but of this we may rest assured, that she is virtuous, and possesses Some amiable qualities, or Lucy Cleveland would not be hex friend — the manner in which she Spent her time in India, her being accustomed to admiration from an early age, may have made her a finished coquette, 
[ los I 
quette, but I am of opinion, that nature designed her for a much more re spedable character. 
I shall go to Mrs. newman’s tomorrow, but I have not a wish to See you. there : if vanitjr has induced Mrs. Dormer to try how absence affects you; if you think she^expedts you to follow her; — stay where you are — and by your absence xohvince her,, you can live without her. If you value my good opinion, ^. or wish for the approbation of your own heart, be advised, and remain at Oxford. -- -- Mrs.. Newman lies in — Mrs,. 
Dormer has no other female companion,, I cannot make a long stay — the country is retired — you insinuating— — a word,, honour, friendship, and appearances, should induce you to avoid newmam place. 
F 5; I shall 
[ io ] 
I shall See you in July, as I intend to accompany Mrs. Newman tooxsord. — I request you to considcr what I have written, and I hope you will comply with my request; I am Sure you cannot but feel the propriety of the advice -^ if you determine to come, and should dare attempt to undermine the virtue of lucy’s friend I will stand forth to protest, if possible, if not to revenge the injuries of an helpless woman! — 
Yours — * 
As you may in future merit — CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
LET 
1; I 
LETTER XVII 
HENRY B O S W E L E, 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, E s 
delmont hall. 
I A M astonished you have not replied to my last letter, I think it inconsistent with my grenville’s character to decline 2l friendly aion— — must be absent from town on Some pleasurable. excursion, and have not received my letter — but I am determined not to har rass my mind with imaginary evils; it is impossible Lucy Cleveland — Lucy, who has looked Such things, can give her hand to any but myself. Did she nor, my dear Charles, refuseeven you.?' — but she might think you too worthy, F 6< to; 
[ io ] 
to poffess only a divided heart; and she poses me married. Her father, no doubt, wishes her well Settled. She has, perhaps, attracted Some man of rank and Sortune — her Sather first intreats,, then commands her to accept his hand — the confiiifl is great — she thinks her attachment to me is crminai and by making a noble Sacrifice of inclination to duty,, stamps me a wretch forever! — But I waste time even in writing to you — 
I have Sent a messenger to her father’s, I have told him I am not married — I have mentioned the reports which have distraded me, and the accident which confines me to the country — he will receive my letter tonight; I am certain he will rejoice in the eclaircijfement, and if Lucy has not already yielded her re reludant hand (and I think it next to an 
impos[ 
[ ] 
impossibility she should) happiness is still in my view. 
This gleam of hope enables me to touch upon less essential circumstances, I am So well recovered from the bruises I received in my Sail, that I am able to quit my bed, but the Surgeon (and I must agree with him) Says it is absolutely necessary for me to keep my chamber a week longer; nothing but this should prevent my breathing the Same air with the beloved of my heart,. 
It is now only a month since I placed Nancy in a family about ten miles from this place; and a Servant of theirs arrived about an hour ago, with a mes sage from his master, to know if miss Collins had been, or was with me (I placed her there as a distant relation, who was dependant on me), for that a gentleman, ' in a post-chaise and .four, 
had 
f MO J 
Bad fetched her this morning; that he told his Master, Mr. boswell was taken very dangeroufiy ill, and desired to See miss Collins immediately; that his mistress had suspicions it was only an excuse, as miss had received Several letters from London, which she had Said was from Mr. boswell; and as they believed I was at delmont hali they determined to watch the chaise; that going the Harwich road, they wished to come at the truth, though they were afraid miss was noshetter than she should she. I told the man I was obliged to his master and mistress for the trouble they had taken; that she had not been with me, and as she had acted So very imprudently, I should take no farther trouble about her. 1 presented the fellow with a guinea to drink my health,, which gave him as much Satisfaction as his intelligence had given me. If she had resolution, or rather inclina 
iioriy 
[ III ] 
tion^ to go off with another man, she could not be very firmly attached to me. I began to think, from many corroborating circumstances, it is not the jirfi time she has been false to me; and I look upon her living with another man, as a very fortunate event; for it will be a proof to Lucy, I have no present connexion with her. 
My friend Delmont does everything in his power to render my involuntary stay agreeable : the house is fitted up in a very elegant and tasty style, and the Spot it stands on is romantically pleasing;; house stands in the middle of a garden, what an enchanting Situation! one can Scarce be melancholy within the atmosphereof flowers : Such lively hues, and delicious odours, not only address themselves agreeably to the senses; “but touch with a Surprising delicacy the Sweetest movements of the mind.” — 
You 
[ 112' ] 
You know I am fond of the country,, and were my Sweet girl but with me,. L should be most blessed; but 
In solitude what happiness, who can enjoy aloney Or all enjoying, what contentment find ?” 
If it was in the nature of things to be happy in the absence of them we love,, delmont’s friendly attentions would in sure my felicity : 1 had received repeated solicitations from him to visit this delightful Spot, but I certainly should' not at this time,, when I ought, and certainly should have been devoting all my time to my Lucy, had not my accident in coming from.dunmow, where I had left the faithful Nancy, obliged, me to stop at a farmhouse in this neighbourhood, until I could receive assistance. — I drove her down from Londom in a phaeton, but an accident happening to it, I would not wait for it’s being repaired, and hired a horse to bring me 
to 
[ ] 
to town; the beast was Spirited, and stung me, within a riiile of this place. The good people at the farm rendered me every possible assistance, but most fortunately for me, Delmont happened to pass the Same road, and hearing of the accident (which you may supposc made no Small bustle in a country village) was induced by the natural humanity of his dispofition, to offer his house for the accommodation of the strange gentleman, i leave you to judge of his Surprise, when he discovered on a yiew of the supposed stranger, 
Your unfeigned friend, 
HENRY BOSWELL, 
LET 
[ II ] 
LETTER XVIII CHARLES GRENVILLE, ' ESQ 
T O 
HENRY BOSWELL. 
Henley, 
YOU judged rights I was from home when your letters arrived, and by my servant’s neglect, they were both forwarded to me only by to day’s post. — I have used every stratagem to come at the truth of lucy’s situation from Mrs. Dormer; I have twice ashed her, if the report of her friend’s marriage had any foundation; after an evening’s interces fion without success, I told her, I did not doubt but she had very justissable reasons for her Secrecy respedting her 
amiable 
[ ” 5 ] 
amiable friend; but. Said I, (wearied at length with the cruel suspenfe I hnew you would Seel until I wrote) you may perhaps render her an essential Service, by breaking that Silence she has im posed on you — Bofwetl is very immediately concerned, bosvvell is not married. 
Judge of my astonishmeat, when, instead of feeing her in an extasy of joy, at the unexpected prospecb of her friend’s felicity! I heard her exclaim, — “It is too late — My God I this will put a period to all her afflictions !” — 
What, my dear Mrs. Dormer t what will be too late? — she made me no reply, but immediately retired to her chamber in great agitation. — I would not by choice send this, until I could 
add 
[ lid ] 
add, what might console my friend! but that I judge of the impatience ' yoii must Seel, until you hear Something, 
From your 
CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
T E T 
[ >'7 1 
LET T E R XIX 
MRS. DORMER T o 
MISS LUCY CLEVELAND. 
Henley. 
LUCY! if you are not married, thank heaven for your escape! — I have this moment been made acquainted with a most extraordinary circumstance — Boswell is not married. — O, my friend! I am So agitated, So fearful my intelligence may be too late — that I will not stay to add more, than write as Soon as possible to your 
FANNY DORMER. 
If 
[ lis ] 
If the inclosed papers had not (as they have Some days past) been ready packed and directed to you, you would not have had them at this time; but as the messenger is now waiting for his horse, I Snatch time to Say they contain the history of my much lamented mother, which I have So long promised you. If you receive my letter, happily time enough to prevent the marriage I So much dread, your mind will be at ease, and capable of interesting itsels in the perusal. — If, though God forbid! it should be too late, and you have for titude enough to Sustain the shock (and what may not be expected from yov^ then possibly, if not the amusement at least the Ilffipation^ of a few, of the many unhappy hours, that in that case 1 cannot but dread, are in store for my Lucy! -- -- -- 
H I ST 
119 3 
HISTORY 
O F 
MRS. M O R L E Y. 
MR. ROWLEY, who was a very wealthy tradesman, Saw me one Sunday in kenfington gardens, and was attradf ed (as he afterwards told me) by my person: he introduced himsels to me, by expressing his surprise, at my being without a gentleman as an escort, and requested I would not deem him impertinent if he begged permission to attend 
[ 120 ] 
tend me, and a young lady who was with me, to the place of our abode. It was rather late, and as my father allowed me very little pocket money, coach hire was an object; we therefore thought it most prudent to accept Mr. kowley’s offer. 
My father, on our return home, was much pleased with the attentions paid me by Mr. Rowley, and gave him a general invitation to our house; he apparently accepted it with great pleasure, and stayed only until the next evening before he renewed his visit. 
My mother died when I was an infant, and my father left the management of every domestic concern, to a woman who had formerly been his Servant; I had been at a boarding school for a few years, and on my return this woman was fixed on for my companion; 
she 
[ II ] 
she was conceited, ill tempered, and ignorant; after Such a character, you will readily suppose I Spent a number of irksome hours. My father being Seldom at home, rendered my Situation the more disagreeable; and the lonely hours (which I preferred to the Society of a servant) would have preyed on my Spirits, and prob; ibly in time injured my health, if I had not cherished the expectation of being delivered from a Situation So repugnant to my feelings. 
The governess, with whom I was placed, took particular pains to instil into me, every principle of religion and morality; and taught me to look up to the Author of our being, for every Species of happiness here and hereafter. 
I was not of an age or dispofition, at that time, to extend my ideas further 
vol. I. G than 
[ 122 ] 
than this world; and I was better pleased with the doctrine contained in those books which the Servants lent me, that love was the hujinefs of our lives, and that every handsome girl stood a chance to be run away with at Some time or other, if her inclinations led her, as (on consulting my glass) I thought my person by no means contemptible, I had great expedlations of Some man taking me from a state of dependance, and raising me to the possession of an affluent fortune. I was young and inexperienced enough, to be confirmed in this idea by an incident that happened Some time after I left School; a gypsy viewing and reviewing my hand at many and different times, and still persisting in the same story, which was, that I should marry a man of very large fortune; was the additional motive for my looking forward to a deliverance (as I have 
before 
[ 123 ] 
before mentioned) from my irksomc Situation. 
Mr. Rowley was very frequent in his visits; his appearance being genteel, and my father well pleased at the preference he showed me, I was weak enough to believe in the predidion of an ignorant vagrant, and to suppose it was Mr. Rowley she had in her view, 
. when she foretold what no human being could have a knowledge of. 
In a very few weeks Mr. Rowley obtained my permission to alk my father’s consent to our marriage. As he could not give me a shilling to my fortune, he gladly accepted the proposal, and I very willingly exchanged the name of Leifter for that of Rowley two months after my first interview with your father. 
G 2 Within 
I 124 ] 
Within the first twelve months your Sister Nancy was born, and two years aster you made an addition to our family. Your Sathcr Soon after retired from bufiness, to a Small villa at Richmond. 
From that period I experienced nothing but distresses. Mr. Rowley was a fatal instance of the absurdity of people brought up in bufiness, and accus tomed to an active life, retiring, as they falsely imagine, to enjoy themselves: they do not rested, that it requires more philosophy, and a more studious turn, than is generally the case with men in that line of life, to find employ for the vacant hours. At first the novelty of the Scene, and the Superintend 1 ing little alterations in our mansion and garden, provided him with employ, and he was not only cheerful, but highly pleased with his Situation; but by 
degrees 
[ 125 ] 
degrees he became listless for want of avocation, and dull for want of the company and busy Scenes of town and trade. 
This first induced him to become a member of a card club, merely to pafs away the winter evenings — but to be brief, by degrees he fell into that most pernicious attachments — a love of play. Although he had acquired a genteel, but not an elegant Sufficiency, he lost such considerable shshs, that he found it impossible ever to retrieve his affairs; and it was difficult, even with the greatest frugality, to preserve appearances. 
This Sudden transition in his circumstances, So much affected his Spirits, that it brought on a decay, and he Survived the loss of his fortune, little more than a twelvemonth. 
G 3 I was 
[ 126 ] 
I was a young widow, and was left with two children, in a very embarrassed Situation. 
The apothecary that attended your father in his illness, and who was a man of Some property, compassionated my situation; he advised me to disposc of my household furniture, and made me the offer of his house, until I had con ‘ Suited with my friends, what plan 1 should adopt for the maintenance of myself and my two little girls. Mr. 'Smyth, the gentfetnan who made me this generous proposal, was a married man, and his wife bore an unexceptionable character: I thought myself particularly fortunate, in having the 'Society of two Such worthy people, not only to dispel the gloom, which my recent loss had occasioned, but likewise to advise me respedling my future plan of life; for whatever their opinion 
should 
[ 12/ ] 
should be, I was determined to abide by it; as I could not with propriety apply to my relations (my Sather had been dead Some time, owing to Mr. rowley’s Singularity of temper, and for other reasons not worthy to be recited, he had never Suffered me to keep up an intimacy with them. 
Mr. Smyth thinking me very capable, recommended me to Lady S -- -- -, 
to be governess to her daughter; he kindly promised to place you and your lister, at a genteel School, and to adopt you as his children. 
A few days after, as 1 was expressing my gratitude for Such disinterested. Such unmerited friendship, the Servant interrupted me by announcing, Captain Morley is arrived. Sir, and requests half an hour’s conversation with you.” — Mr. Smyth left the room, fbut in a very short G 4 time 
[ >28 ] 
time returned, introducingcaptainmor lay to me. — “There, Frank, ’* Said he, “is a young amiable widow! what Say you to her ?” ‘ I Say, * replied Morley, ‘nothing — nothing!’ reiterated Mr. Smyth, with greatquickness, “I thought, Sir, you would have Said much — and that to the purpose too, or 1 would never have introduced you to So much excellence!” 
‘ Dear Sir, * Said Morley, ‘ you are So hasty, that you interrupt me most unfortunately, I was going to Say, Nothing, that could be Spoke with propriety in the lady’s presence — my Sentiments respedfing her, shall not long remain a Secret, but when I have not been half an hour in the room with her, to say more would be indelicate to the highest degree. — 
Mr. 
[ 129 ] 
Mr. Smyth Seemed to feel the just ness of the reproach, and put an end to a conversation (So very embarrashng to me, though apparently a jocular one), by proposing a walk to the hill. 
Mrs. Smyth was indisposed, but would not permit me to remain at home to keep her company. On my urging the impropriety of my going without a female. — “Be not too prudish, ” Said she, “an over rigid caution, Sometimes gives room for suspicions, where there is no foundation for them; it is absolutely indelicate tosuppose there is danger; and it would be prudish to apprehend an im propriety, when you knowyourcompany: you must either suppose yourself irresist ably attrafling, or your companions very abandoned.; you cannot be asraid of my husband— — Morley is his friend !** 
G 5 I was 
[ 13° ] 
I was struck with the justness and propriety of Mrs. smyth’s observations and Sentiments; and I entreated herfor giveness for giving her occasion for such a lecture: : immediately equipped myself for my walk. 
While she was giving me this advice, Mr. Smyth had been clofetted with Morley; and I am pretty confident what 1 am going to relate, was a concerted thing between them. — We had but just passed the Castle Inn, when the Servant overtook Mr. Smyth, and delivered a letter : after he had read it, he expressed himself concerned to leave us, but Said he was under a necessity of visiting a patient who lived on the Green, but dessred we would wait for him on the queen’s Terras, as he should Soon return 
He 
t 131 J 
He was no Sooner gone, than I Saw it was a Scheme to leave Morley and myself together, and to own a truth, was far from feeling displeased; I was prompted by my own inclinations to converse with him, free from the interruption of a third person : I will be as brief as possible in this part of my narrative, as nothing can be more Surfeiting than the conversation of lovers, to any but the parties. 
Morley made a very agreeable use off the time we were left together; after Gonfeshng his regard for me, he told me his prospects promised great promotion in the India company’s Service;, and that if I could love him well enough to quit my native country, and accompany him to Bengal, that we might live in a very gmteel style; thai. he should likewise wish me to consent toi my two girls going with us, as there' G 6- would. 
[ 132 ] 
would then be a certainty of their establishing their fortunes by marriage. 
From the first hour I conversed with the agreeable Morley, 1 experienced fensations to which I had until then been a stranger; in a word, he was my first and only love; for when I married Mr. Kowley, it was to comply with my fa ther’s solicitations, and likewise to rid myself of a difagreeablehome. It is true, we were what the world called a happy couple, for as I had then never Seen a man I could have liked better, I was perfectly Satisfied with my Situation, and thought I was more fortunate than most girls who were destitute of money. But I was more melancholy than afflicted at the loss of my husband;; the avowal of morley’s passion, Seemed to open a new world to me. 
My 
[ 133 .1 
My good friend, Mr. Smyth, was So anxious for our immediate marriage, that he extradled a promise from me, that as Soon, as propriety would admit, I would make his young friend happy. From the time the match was concluded, you may suppose I gave up all thoughts of going as a governess. 
Mr. Smyth allotted an apartment in his house for Morley, and as I had So much of bis Society, I was in no haste for our marriage; except to free me from being longer an encumbrance to Mr. Smyth: indeed, I was anxious to be Settled in the Indias, as.. I thought it probable I might then have an opportunity, or more properly Speaking, the ability, to make Some return to my worthy friends, for their incomparable friendship. 
The 
[ 134 I 
The time at length arrived when I gave him my hand, who had long been in possession of my heart; and it was Gur intention to have taken our passage in the first ship, which Sailed for Coast and Bay; but Mr. smyth’s Sudden in disposition (which by degrees wore a. very alarming aspeds), induced us to remain in England Some time longer. — It pleased heaven, at the expiration of a few months, to reestablish his health,, and as I was at that time far advanced in my pregnancy, rriy kind and attentive Morley, would not Suffer me to undertake the voyage, until I was brought to bed, and I was prevailed on to remain. Some months; longer. 
1 had So dreadful a time, that your father had little hopes given him of my recovery, and he more than once im 
treated 
[ 135 J 
treated them to Sacrifice your lister Delia (whom he now dotes on), provided they could, by So doing, Save her mother’s life : but the Almighty, very unexpedl edly, restored me to the best of husbands and my recovery was So rapid, that I was able in a few weeks to Set lall for Bengal: previous to our going, your father was promoted to the rank of colonel. 
We had a tolerable voyage, and I was much caressed on our arrival, by the ladies at the Settlement; however ill, it may become me to make the observation, as I mean to recite facts, I cannot avoid Saying, I was but too much admired by the gentlemen, to remain long in that state of felicity, I had experienced at the first of my marriage. 
Soon 
[ 136 ] 
Soon aster my arrival at Bengal, my amiable, my beloved Morley! became So extremely jealous, that I determined to endeavour to quiet any suspicions that might occasion him unhappiness, or injure me in his opinion, by keeping very little company; by making a point of receiving no gentlemen in his absence, but what he had invited; and by expressing a warmth of passion, which though I really felt, my delicacy had induced me to suppress., Any fond advances on my part, though it will occasion disgust in Some men, had the contrary effe<st with him; and a persever ance in little assiduities, purposely studied to please; paying a particular atten tention to my dress, when I was certain of feeing no other man but himsels, cured him of his ill grounded jealousy, and preserved him the most attentive and affectionate of husbands: think on the good effect of this part of my aeon 
dud, 
[ 137 ] 
dud, and let it have due weight with : then, when I am even no more, I may be useful to my dearest Fanny— — I am astonished howjo«, who are a sensible woman, can Spend your time in Spreading nets to catch the admiration of men, who, is not despica ble themselves, must despisej(?« for it: your reputation will Suffer, is you in future digest the gross flattery I have known you to Swallow. 
The regard I feel for you, is the inducement to dwell So Ibng on the dark fide of the canvass, and thus boldly paint the conspicuous error of your life. 
It is the duty of a friend, and the indispensable duty of a parent, to present you with the mirror, in which you, 'may view'your faults in their true light; 
Set 
[ 138 ] 
Set the just value on these hints j remember them, as the admonitions of a parent, who extended her views of Serving you, even beyond the grave : true fame is not to be purchased, but by prudence, nor can it ever be obtained by that admiration, which you unjustly think due to your beauties, and on which at present you place too great a value. 
I shall request this to be given you, when I am no longer here to advise you, trusting that consideration will give any advice or admonition, you may collect from it, the greater weight; and make the more lasting impression on your heart, when Softened by that affliction: : know you will feel on Such an occasion, and on Such a recent proof of our mortality. 
'I should 
[ 139 ] 
I should hope it will strongly call off your mind from the vanities and pleasures that Surround you, and stridily admonish you, that their duration are at best but short, and dispose you to reflet on the necessity of extending our views beyond this life, for any permanent happiness; and consequently, southeast rioufiy dispose you to Seek an interest in that Being, who only can bestow that tranquillity that arises in the mind, when assured of life and immortality hereafter. 
I have wrote this, my beloved daughter! that you may not be ignorant of her life, who gave you birth, and to show you how possible it is to remove from the mind of the man whose good opinion you wish to preservc, an undeserved Suspicion of jealousy. — 
In 
[ H ] 
In this last particular, should you be So unfortunate to find occasion to exert your prudence, implicitly follow the precepts of 
Your affectionate and fond mother, ELIZA MORLEY. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XX 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
harley ftreet, 
F A N N Y! it is indeed too late — 
I this evening received a letter from you (the first I ever wished not to have Seen) — but — I this morning gave my hand to Mr. Arlington. 
Write to me very Soon; but remember it is Such a letter as may be expected from a prudent and sincere friend, 
to 
I 142 ] 
to his wife. — My eyes are dim with weeping — Oh, Fanny! — what greater troubles can be in store for — 
LUCY — : -- -- - 
You may fill the blank — indeed — I cannot, 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXI 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, esqj, 
T O 
HENRY BOSWELL. 
newman place, Henley. 
MY ill-fated, my unhappy friend! I can relieve you only from your disagreeable suspense, by plunging you in a more dreadful certainty — Lucy is married — she has given that envied person to a Mr. Arlington. 
I suppose it is a match of Mr. cleveland’s making, as the man is almost old enough to be her father, but he is immensely rich. 
I can 
[ m4 ] 
I can very easily feel for your Situation; yet, however inhuman it may appear, I feel much more for her: indeed she justly claims a large portion of pity. She has Sacnficed her peace of mind from the laudable motive of conquering a weakness, she supposed criminal; and to oblige a tender parent, whose requests in her idea of filial duty, were ever commands. 
In a short letter, which she wrote to Mrs. Dormer on the evening of her wedding day, she acknowledges the receipt of that letter which Fanny'sent, to inform her you was not married, but does not mention a word of receiving one from you; as Mr. Cleveland did not reply to it, and she was not married at the time the messenger from you was expected to arrive in St. james’s street, I am apt to believe the letter was never delivered. How could this happen? 
3 Had 
[ HS ] 
Had you neglected to write to her father, you would now Severely feel for the delay; but as you have done everything in your power to bring matters to an eclaircijfement (unless you had declared your regard for her prior to your going into the country, which would have been extremely imprudent, Situated as you was then, with Nancy), you must Summon that good sense and fortitude, which heaven has blessed you with, on this trying occasion. 
I will go to town as Soon as possible, in hopes you will give me the meeting, and Since matters have turned out So unfortunate for us both, come and make one of us and we will study to dispel your ennui. 
CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
vol. I. H LET[ 
[ 3 
LETTER XXII 
M R S. D O R M E R T o 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
newman placc, Henley. 
BUT that it is usual, I should think it unnecessary to Say, I wish you all poshble happiness in the state you arejustentered into: between us two all form and mere ceremony, have been long laid aside as unworthy our mutual friendship: and for Mr. Arlington, he must excuse me. Saying, I am certain he will be happy with my Lucy, or he does not deserve to be So; and that is a Supposition I cannot admit, for your Sake. 
Now 
_____________________ _______ i 
[ >47 ] 
Now I will fall into my usual style and give you Some account of what concerns myself, and my friends at this place. 
Mrs. Newman has got a fine little boy, and is even better than could be expected. 
Mr. Grenville, who you may remember often Spoke of his agreeable friend at Henley, has been here near a fortnight. Mr. Newman applied to Grenville, wsho was an old schoolfellow of his, to purchase this little Spot for him, and he kindly visits it now and then, to give diredlions for any improvements that may be wanted. 
The house and gardens are fitted up to Mrs. newman’s and his taste, and does them infinite credit. The house is Small but neat, and Situated on an H 2 emi[ 
[ ] 
eminence, from whence, besides a navigable river, you have a prospedt beautiful, and of great extent; the country highly cultivated, with a great many elegant villas in view. 
The lawn before it is of nature’s velvet, grass intermingled with moss, and embroidered with flowers. What fragrance exhales from the blooming beans! with these, the Sides of the Hoping declivity are lined. The moss Swells into a couch for the repose of the body; while the Thames Softly rolling, terminates the view, and Sooths the imagination. 
There is a large garden behind, which I can view from my dressing-room window; in this place it may be justly Said, “all is beauty to the eye, and music to the ear.” The feathered tribe, all joyous and grateful, are paying their 
acknow 
[ >49 ] 
acknowledgements in a tribute of harmony : but all description is inadequate to the various and innumerable beauties of this little Spot; had I my Lucy with me, I should fancy it elysium. — I am interrupted -- -- - 
It was 3 letter from Mrs. fortescue — a pressing invitation to be with her at the anniversary, held at the Theatre; it is in one of the finest rooms 1 ever saw, and when crowded with elegant company, must be a very Splendid sight. As it will be a nouveaute to us both cannot you persuade Mr. Arlington to accompany you? — Henley is in your way, therefore if he will agree to the excursion, you may do the civil thing, by calling for me, and at the same time have an opportunity of feeing my agreeable friend, your agreeable lover (that was) and be yourself a judge how far H 3 this 
[ »5° ] 
this place Surpasses anything I have attempted to give you an idea of. 
I think I should like to See Oxford once more: — heigh ho! — Why do I sigh So? — but this is a question I do not, Lucy, mean you to answer. 
How mildly do you treat my Sollies! I will — indeed I will endeavour to be less pleased with the flattery of the male creatures. — How kindly considerate in you, to palliate my errors by laying the blame on the Afiatick manners I had imbibed! — you judge very justly of them : indeed I had been So accustomed to be adored, that I can tell you, I felt mere admiration very inadequate to my expedations on my arrival in England. 
I did not give myself time to rested (and perhaps my vanity would not permit me to suppose, there were So many 
thou[ 
[ ] 
thousand women handsomer than myself; but the first night of my appearance at the Pantheon, I felt my own insignificance, and the gallant Captain 
F -- -- -^ who an hour before “Of 
all woman kind, loved but me alone, ’* found Superior attractions in every face that was novel. 
Mr. Sedgwick has not been here, I fuppole he never intended it; but if he Should, the kind admonitions and advice of my valiied Lucy, shall be strictly attended to by her 
Faithfully affeclionatc, 
FANNY DORMER. 
H 4 LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER xxm. 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
harley.ftrcet. 
I THANK you very kindly, my dearest Fanny, for the entertainment you have afforded me, in Sending, me the history of your amiable mother. 
I am likewise indebted to you for your last letter, which was, my excellent friend! just what I wished it to be. So far as concerned myself; but I am concerned to find you still Sigh, at the rccolledlion of Sedgwick. 
You 
[ 153 1 
You make very .flight mention of Grenville — you do not even express yourself pleased with So agreeable an addition at newman place.t — Is it still So very impossible for you to approve, ^ to esteem the amiable qualities of a man because he has too high an opinion of your understanding to jiatier you? 
Ah! Fanny,. Fanny! have not. I. guessed at, or rather accounted for, the indifference with which you behold Charles Grenville I — but I am in a humour to be very Severe, and will therefore drop the Subject. 
Though'my time Has been much in grossed by the ceremonious parade, attendant on my new Situation, I shave had Sufficient leisure to peruse Mrs, morley’s History and your letters, more than once: not that which I received from you the day I was married! — no — H 5 I conu 
[ «54 ] 
I committed that immediately to the flames, and prayed to heaven, that the remembrance of its contents, might be as easily and effectually obliterated, as that was destroyed: but it is a subject which unintentially escaped my pen, and one, on which in future I will not dare to trust myself. I feel it advisable to encourage dissipation, and as Mr. Arlington is fond of company and public places, it will give me an opportunity to please him, and in Some degree prevent, “painful thinking which corrodes our clay.” — 
As Mr. Arlington generally reads for an hour in his study before he retires, I have that time entirely to myself: not but 1 am mistress of it, at any other hour, but I should not choose to write frequently in his presence, lest k might be interpreted into a disrespect, or that he might be offended at my dedicating 
So 
[ 155 I 
So much time to another: indeed, Fanny, he merits all these attentions, and though no part of his conduct hitherto gives me reason to suppose he would be dissatisfied with trifles, yet I would avoid Surnishing him with an opportunity of Supposing himself slighted. Hi whole study is to make me happy, and it is certainly a return but due to him, to let him think I am So. 
When I mentioned to him the pressing invitation I had received to accompany you to Oxford, he Said, “he should be happy at all times to give me pleasure, that he was certain I must be very anxious to See you from whom I have been So long absent ^ that he had but one objection, and even that, if it did not appear to me equally forcible, should be Surmounted : I cannot, ” Says he, “be under obligations to strangers, were they your friends, they must be H 6 mine. 
[ 156 ] 
mine, but as we are neither of us acquainted with Mr. or Mrs. fortescue, I should not chuse to accept of an apartment in their house; besides, it is not agreeable to me, you should go anywhere without Servants to attend you, which you cannot take with you there: but as you will, by going, have an opportunity of Seeing your friend Mrs. Dormer, and the gaiety of the Scene may be agreeable, I will accompany you whenever you please, provided we have apartments hired for us in the town, during our stay, and you shall insist on Mrs. Dormer being one of our family.” 
I then ashed him, if the excursion was perfectly agreeable to him? I as fured him the gaiety of the Scene could have no attractions for me, and that 1 would willingly give up the prospect of feeing my Fanny, Sooner than at 
coni 
157 ] 
contrary to his inclinations: but that I was entirely of his opinion, that it would be disagreeable and improper to be at Mr. fortescue’s house. 
“You are a, very worthy creature, Lucy, ” Said he, “desire your friend to, request her’s at Oxford to procure us proper apartments.” He then drew me on his knee, and. kissed me; — L very Sincerely ejieem him, I am under the greatest obligations to him, I both feel — and express my gratitude — but I cannot — it is not in my nature to return his fondness. 
I am in raptures with the description you have given of newman place, and hope very Soon, to have a view of all its beauties. 
My father and Sister have just been here, I wished them to add to our Isttle 
party 
I 158 ] 
party at Oxford, but I fear I shall not prevail, as my father dislikes the trouble of travelling, though but a day’s journey from London. 
You may in a few days expect to see me. 
Adieu, mon amie du coeur! 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET. 
I 159 ] 
LETTER XXIV 
HENRY BOSWELL 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ. 
delmont hall. 
YOU have told me enough — or rather, in Saying “Lacy is marned, ^^ you have Said everything to complete my wretchedness. — Ye that e’er lost an angel! pity me. curse on the follies of procrastination! — Why, why did I not open my whole soul to her besore I left London? — too great Security in her partiality for me, has been my ruin, and I am buried in the web, mysels have wrought, 
‘‘ O what 
[ io I 
t 
** P what a pain to think! when every thought;, Perplexing thought, in intricacies runs,. 
How shall I bear this battle of the mind, 
This inward anarchy ?” 
Ishave been very dangeroussy ill, and nothing but the distress I occasioned to the worthy heart of Delmont could have prevailed on me to have used the means, that have in Some degree effected my recovery but it is the will of bro vidence to reserve me for farther trials — greater I, cannot experience. 
You desire me to “make one of you it is kindly meant, but I am Sure you are better acquainted with yaur. bost well’s heart,, than to suppose I can ever be gay, in the Same town where Lucy, perhaps at that very moment, might be in the arms of her too happy hux? band! — > 
Many 
[ ii 3 
Many in my Situation, would rave — murder Arlington — or endeavour to Seduce his wise! men did I Say? — they are monsters! 
I am dejected, I am most miserable \ but, thank God! my senses have not sorsaken me, and now I know she cannot be mine, and has vowed fidelity to another, I will never attempt to Sow distention between her and her husband. I will do everything to promote her happiness, and though I should madden at the thought of her loving him, I would wish her, if possible, not to hate him. 
I shall remain here Some time longer, and I entreat you to send me a very minute account of everything that relates to the dear and too lovely Lucy! 
Nothing 
[ i62 ] 
Nothing but my bufmess could induce me ever to return to London, but I have trespaffed too long already, and though the money my father left me, will maintain me very genteely, while I am single, my profession, in which I have been very successful, obtains me a very considerable addition, and what 1 should find necessary, were I ever to marry? — 
You will, I suppose, when you come to this part of my letter, exclaim, Ah, Boswell! is Lucy, on whom you doted. So Soon forgotten! But your astonishment will cease, when you carry your eye a few lines further, and view the foundation of my hopes Arlington is much older than myself — and is it not possible I may yet be happy? we are both very young — we both love each other! — This prosped, though So 
yery 
[ *63 ] 
very uncertain, in Some degree Supports the Spirits of 
Tour unfortunate friend I 
HENRY BOSWELL; 
P. S. No wonder Cleveland never received my letter; in the perturbation of my mind, I had directed it to James street, instead of Sains james’s street, 
LETI 
^64 ] 
LETTER XXV CHARLES GRENVILLE, E S 
T O 
HENRY BOSWELL. 
newman place, Henley. 
I F your bufiness requires it, you may return to town without any apprehensions of Seeing Lucy, as she is at present under the Same roof with me. 
Mr. Arlington and her arrived here three days Since, but as it was my intention to take the first favourable opportunity of entering into a tete a tetc with her, I delayed writing, that I 
might: 
[ i65 ] 
might communicate the particulars to you, verbatim et literatim. 
Yesterday the weather being very inviting, and the evening extremely warm, Mrs. Newman thought she might venture out (the first time since her lying in), and she proposed our drinking tea in the Temple, which is on the banks of the river, but Lucy objected, ashgn ing for reason, that the damps off the water, might subject Mrs. Newman to cold. 
I shall Second Mrs. arlington’s ob jedfions. Said I, and request that we may sip our tea in the drawing-room, and I will favour Mr. and Mrs. Arlington, after the repast is over, to point out the various beauties of this Sweet Spot. — To confess the truth, I thought lucy’s husband (who is, in Some degree, a valetudinarian), would be likewise fearful 

[, 166 ] 
full of catching cold, and content himself with the prospe£t from the windows : my Scheme fortunately Succeeded, for on my asking him to accompany us, he Said he wished to be excuscd, but should think himself obliged if I would escort Lucy. 
“I shall not be afraid to trust you together (Said he very facetioussy) notwithstanding I have beard you was an admirer of her’s !■ — I think if she could resign you, and give me her hand, I can have no great doubt, but she consulted her heart — you know they paint Love as a blind deity, and I think the Sweet girl, when she fancied me, gave no Small proof of it. In possessing her love I possess everything, for as to imaginary wants, no person has fewer, and it is my way of thinking, that if we will create imaginary evils to ourselves, we should likewise create imaginary satis 
factions[ 
[ ] 
fodions to balance them. It was the merrier frenzy of the two, to be like the Athenian who Sanded all the ships that came into the harbour, were his own.’* 
Lucy looked exceeding embarrassed during the old gentleman’s harangue; her countenance changing alternately from red to pale. I felt So Sincerely for the Situation of her mind, that to divert the conversation, I proposed returning to the house: “Ay, ” Said Mrs. Dormer, “or you will be too late after tea, to view the prospedt.” 
The honours of the tea table being concluded, I reminded Lucy of her promise to accompany me, and after she had received a Second nod of approbation from Arlington, she very familiarly leaned on my arm, and we Sallied forth to the Temple. 
I con[ 
[ ] 
I conducted her into a walk, in which you lose sight of the house. I then told her I was most happy to See her So well reconciled to her new Situation : I am not in the least surprised, Said I, at your paying the necessary attentions to your husband, or your esteeming a man, who, by what I have Seen, appears very amiable! I should be astonished if jtpu were to ad otherwise; but the mysterious part of your conduct, is your marrying any man you did not love. — You confessed to me you had no heart to give; but you will have Some difficulty to persuade me, Mr. Arlington was in possession of it. 
“You are mistaken, my worthy friend, ” Said she, “if you think I shall attempt it; I know no meanness equal, to that of deceiving another. Not that it follows, I should reveal my Sentiments to every one: if I judged it 
impru 
[ i69 3 
imprudent to place a confidence, I would be Silent, but I would never be guilty osdissimulation to a person I believed my friend. That kind of deceit which is cunningly laid, and smoothly carried on, under the disguise of friendship, is of all others, the most impious and detestable.’" 
Then, Said I, tell me, whom you have honoured with the appellation ot friend, Who is the happiest of men? “Why, ” says she, “that rnan who has the most fortitude, for he never Suffers his mind to be dejefied with evils.” 
Pho, Said I, you “zci//not understand me, but you shall have no plea to evade my next interrogation. Do you not love boswell? 
“You are too particular, Mr. Qren« ville, ” Said the dear blushing girl. — 
vol. I. I Why 
t 170 ] 
Why Mr. Grenville, Lucy? I was a few minutes since your worthy friend I 
“I thought you So, ” Said she, “but I have been mistaken. A friend would not probe a wound after it was healing.’* 
She immediately arose from the seat on which 1 had placed her in the Temple, with the intention to leave me. — I prevented her; and taking her hand. Forgive me, my dear Mrs. Arlington, this once, and you shall never be troubled on the subject by me agairf: but, boswell is the friend of my heart, and his conduct towards you must not remain unexplained. 
“Our being absent So long may have odd appearances; I am very willing, Mr. Grenville, to believe your friend’s conduct may be justified. That Being 
who 
[ II] ] 
knows all hearts, can alone judge the innocence of mine. You know your friend passed at our house for a married man, why he pradtised Such a deceit, is best known to himself. The effects of deception have often proved fatal; but in this instance, his conduct has been a means of rendering a child conformable to the will of a parent. Had I remained Single, I should never have believed it criminal to have loved boswell, provided he and the wife I then supposed he had, was ignorant of my regard. — This I knew, and as 1 felt my ill-fated passion prey upon my health — when I Saw an indulgent father worn by affliction, at the sight of his drooping child; 
I called reason and religion to my aid; and formed the resolution to marry a worthy man, whom my father pointed out to me. 
I 2 “As 
I 172 ] 
As he was not young, I was the more willing to marry him, as he was more likely to be the improving companion, than the Sond husband. 
Mr. Arlington is nearly Such, and though I now think of your friend very differently to what I formerly did, I have no objection to your communicating xo Jiim what I have Said. 
I have nothing now which depresses my Spirits, but having deceived Mr. Arlington: yet, 1 think, it would not be advisable to make him now acquainted with the Sentiments I formerly entertained for your friend. My hap. piness will in a great measure depend on Mr. boswell: I should not chuse to be iubjedled to an interview; and I should hope his own good sense, would ididate that it would be prudent in him 
to 
[ >73 ] 
to withdraw, is ever we should meet ia a public place.” 
I had not time to make her a reply, as Mrs. Dormer came to us: — “Well, Lucy; ” Said she, “I have been guilty of a little deceit on your account, but as it was well meant, you must forgive me. Mr. Arlington Sent me half an hour ago, to help you out of the river for he Said by your long absence, he was afraid you had both fallen in. — Though he Jaid this jestingly., I did not know but his thoughts might be moro Serious; So I made him believe I would immediately join company with you r I did peep at you it is true, but as I Saw you apparently in a very interesting discourse, I retired, and amused myself in another part of the garden.” 
I 3 Lucy 
[ »74 i 
Lucy did not reprove her for the deceit, but promised to keep Secret her well meant treachery. 
I have stole time from my steep, to tell you these particulars, for which I €xpe<5l you to be very grateful. 
To your real friend, CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXVI 
HENRY boswetl 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, esci:, 
EVERYTHING you can communicate respefting Lucy, must be interesting to your unhappy friend !- — But when I have Such assurances that I am beloved by her — my joy is almost as insupportable as my asslidions. tell 
her I am acquainted with the particulars of your conversation in the temple: : her, tho’ I dote on her, tho’ she is my heart’s far dearer part! she may calm all her apprehenssons, ofrashness or imprudence, from the wretched boswell; and likewise tell her, my inclinations lead I 4 me 
[ 176 J 
me to Secure her happiness, rather than alloy those days she may otherwise pass in Serenity with the man she has married. 
O, Grenville! what would I not give to be Situated as you now are } for even the voice of the woman one loves, is music to our ears : — but how does she look? what does she wear.? and does she Sigh when you pronounce my name? tell me all, and everything that concerns her. 
You may Send your next to London, as 1 shall quit this friendly mansion in a day or two. My bufiness requires my attendance, and I have Some hopes that the hurry of town, and the evening entertainments, will Serve to dissipate, though never — never — obliterate my cares. 
Detain 
[ 177 ] 
Detain my lovely Lucy in the country as long as possible; — for should I meet her in a public place; or See her in the street, — what will become of 
Your 
HENRY BOSWELL? 
I 5 L E T[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXVIL 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ. 
T O 
henry BOSWELL. 
Oxford. 
W E arrived here the day before yes terday, and we this morning was charmed with a “concord of Sweet Sounds !” The justly celebrated miss Linley Sung in the Oratorio of Sampson, which was performed at the theatre. 
Lucy, whose soul is tuned to harmony, Seemed for a moment to have forgot her cares, and appeared to enjoy the gaiety and Splendour of the Scene. But when that Sweet penseroso Song of, 
tt Mx 
E "79 1 
“My faith and truth O sampson prove, ” c. was Sung; the gleam of chearfulness at once dispersed from her lovely countenance — she sighed Several times, as if her heart was bursting, and then looked at Arlington. — He Saw the alteration, and Said he was fearful the heat of the place had overpowered her Spirits. “My delicate little wife!” Said he with great tenderness, “let us retire ?” • — She readily consented, and Fanny (the only name Mrs. Dormer is known by here) in fisted to attend her friend; I thought I could not with any propriety quit Mrs. Newman and Mrs. fortescue, as they were without any other gallant. I knew Lucy had all the company she wished for, (your unfortunate Self excepted) in her Fanny. 
On our return to Mr. fortescue (where we had appointed to meet) we found colonel Morley, and his daugh 1 6 ter. 
[ io ] 
ter, father-in-law and hals sister to Mrs. Dormer. 
1 was Surprised at not Seeing my old acquaintance Sedgwick, who, I told you was So enamoured with the pretty Dormer: but we had not been long home besore he came in. After Swearing in his usual reprobate way, how 
d’ -- -- d glad he was to See me! he drew 
a. chair close to miss motley’s, and whispered an inundation of compliments; and though they were Some of them Spoke loud enough for us all to hear, I did not see miss blush, or show any Signs of displeasure. This Delia Morley is a very elegant girl, and has more regular features than Fanny, but she has an hauteur about her, which is to me very disgusting. 
In a short time Mrs. Dormer, and Lucy, (the latter being charmingly re i covered) 
[ ii ] 
covered) blessed us with their companies — It was natural to watch sedgwick’s and fanny’s countenance, but I could not perceive a change in either of them : indeed the former was So totally ipgroffed by miss Morley, and the latter Seemed in So much awe of Lucy, ' that it was difficult to know whether she felt any emotion or jealous pangs at his attentions to Delia; I hope she did not, as I am certain he is unworthy her regard; and though she possibly can.. love her husband, it is an indispen sible duty in her and every married woman, to endeavour to suppress a fond ness for any other man. 
The conversation became too rational to please miss Morley; at least she Seemed better Satisfied with sedgwick’s assiduities: I at hast observed these attentions did not pass unnoticed by Fanny, and on'sher Speaking to Lucy, as I 
happened 
[ i82 I 
happened to pass the back of her chair, I heard her Say, “remember, Fanny, you are married — I wish for your Sake he may be in love with her, for perhaps, the flight to your charms will have a better effect than all my advice, to cure you of an attachment So very unworthy of you.” 
After dinner, Sedgwick called me out of the room : — “What a heavenly girl is this Delia !” Said he; “she is as beautiful as an angel, with all the necessary attra6lior>s for a mortal! I thought Fanny a divinity, but the pretty prudish Mrs. Arlington has quite Spoiled her: do for god’s Sake, Grenville, take one of them off my hands 
In this manner would he have rim*on until now, had not I put a stop to the conversation. I abhor his principles — 
but 
[ i83 ] 
but he is Such a pleasant clever fellow, I have not resolution to break with him, yet I never converse with him an hour together, but I think what a dreadful thing it is, or rather what a miserable folly, to be wise in wickedness I 
In the evening it was proposed for us to go to Christchurch Walk, but as it is the place most frequented, and Oxford is So much crowded just at this time, Fanny Said, she knew her friend Lucy would prefer a strole in Merton Gardens,, which were more retired; and that if she wished to see the Beau Monde she could view them from the terrass. — Her proposal was agreed to; Delia, whom I am Sure loves to be admired, consented rather with an ill grace, until Sedgwick whispered — I suppose that they were more private. 
Just 
[ i84 ] 
Just as we were going out at the door, Mi. Arlington slipped down three or •four steps, and Sprained his ankle : Colonel Morley insssted he ought not to walk on it, and offered to remain with him, and let the young people pursue their walk; but Lucy declined it, she Said Mr. Arlington would be more Satisfied, she hoped, with her company, than any other person. — I was going to Speak, but she looked very significantly at me, and Said “I chase to be the person to stay.” — This hint was enough for me, and I joined the rest of the party, leaving her to nurse Arlington : ' before we left her, she made us promise to Sup at their lodgings, from which place. I am just returned. 
boswell! I never beheld, her equal; - — If you was witness to half the re? straints she is under — to the struggles between her prudence and her inclinations — 
[ i85 ] 
tions — to the attentions she pays her husband, though at the very time she is studious to please, a discerning person may See, she does not love him; in short, one would suppose, she knew your wishes, she So caresully convinces, even me, that she does not hate him. — I am interrupted — A message from Mrs. Arlington! — what can it mean! — my next must inform you. 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, LET[ 
[ ] 
letter XXVIII 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ. f o 
HENRY BOSWELL. 
(IN CONTINUATION.) 
I FOUND her alone. — “You was, no doubt, my friend, surprised at my sending for you, but I am in a most embarrassed situation, and I think it may be in your power to extricate me from it. I told her she knew she might command my Services, I am well as fured of it, ’* she replied, “or I would not place a confidence in you.” 
« Mr. 
[ i87 ] 
“Mr. Arlington finds his ankle lb much inflamed, that he Said, as Soon as you left us, he was determined to go to town tomorrow for advice. He is rather timid when anything ails him, and though Mr. fortescue has recommended him to apply to a very eminent Surgeon here, — he is So prejudiced against the country praftitioners, that he will not Suffer him to See it. — I had taken Some arquebusade to bathe it, just before you came in, and he deflred me to order the post chaise at eight o’clock tomorrow morning. — 1 will go to your father’s” Said he, “and have Mr. boswell to attend me, as he made So fine a cure of him; and as I have heard him Spoken of, as a very Ikilful Surgeon. But I need not take you to town, you shall stay and enjoy the gaiety of the present Scene; and then return to nurse me, if I should require it : besides, as I shall be at your father’s. 
[ i88 ] 
ther’s, he and your Sister will take every necessary care of me.” 
“I Said I should not be Satisfied to be left behind, but I would return with him. — I am So agitated, I know not how to al, but I will be advised by you, if you will promise to be the impartial friend. You may fuppose I wish for any Skilful Surgeon to be called in, rather than boswell, but I know not how to object with propriety : for my father told me before I married, that he should preserve his intimacy with boswell, to quell any Suspicions that might arise; for, ” says he, “as he never confessed a regard for you, and he is ignorant of your unfortunate attachment, I see no impropriety in your meeting; though I would not invite him when I knew of your being with me.” 
After 
[ i89 ] 
After what your father has Said, I replied, and as Mr. Arlington is in tirely ignorant of your attachment, it is impossible without raising Suspicion, for you to object to my friend’s attending him : I would therefore advise you to accept the offer of remaining here; it will be a confirmation that you pur posely avoided an interview with bos well, should Suspicion ever be roused. 
“You certainly judge right, ” Said she, ‘‘ and I will implicitly follow your advice; I will order the chaise at eight, shut I wish you would accornpany Mr. Arlington to town; he may take it kind, and I would wish him to think well of you: besides, as he knows you formerly honoured me with your partiality; — ilhnatured people may Suggest to him, you are Jiill fond of me.” — Why So I am. Said I; at the same time catching hold of one of her hands, 
which 
[ 190 ] 
which she withdrew with precipitation. — “Am I deceived by you P (Said she in a tremulous voice.) No, indeed you are not, I replied, amiable Lucy! you will never find me aspire to more than your friendship, lovely as you are! 
boswell has too powerful an advocate in this bosom to give any foundation for your fears; you may trust yourself fefely at all times with the friend of your lover. “O” Said she, “Mr. Grenville! let me, if possible, forget there is such a being exists. — But will you oblige me, by accompanying my Lujband to town? (dwelling Very emphatically on the word, husband, as if to reprove me for having mentioned you as a lover.) I promised to comply with her request. You will therefore most likely See me Some time tomorrow evening: but 1 shall Send you this, as I may not have an 
oppor 
[ >91 ] 
opportunity to communicate matters So minutely as this letter will. 
Great as your desire may be to See Lucy, you ought to be gratesul to me, for having prevented your meeting, in the presence of her husband. 
Adieu, au revoir! 
CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
LET, 
I 192 ] 
LETTER XXIX 
MR. BOSWELL T o 
J O H N D E L M O N T, E S 
dean ftreet. 
I ACQUAINTED you in my last letter, with the particulars of that I had from my friend Grenville. 
He came to me about two hours after I wrote, with a message from Mr. Cleveland, to request my immediate attendance at his house; telling me, Mr. Arlington was much worse than when he lest oxsord, and was desirous to put himself under my care, 
* Which letter does not appear. 
Though 
[ 193 ] 
Though I foresaw the distress which an interview with Mr. Arlington would produce to your boswell, I could not invent an excuse for not going, without giving rise to various conje6tures in his mind, which might end in Suspicions, injurious to the amiable Lucy: — I therefore determined to accompany my long esteemed friend, to him whom I once fondly hoped to call my father, to the house where I have Spent So many happy hours. 
On my first entrance, I cast my eyes into the little parlour, where Lucy used to sit, when she pradtised her music, or amused herself with the pencil; — nothing but the fear of being thought inattentive to cleveland’s friend, and the glaring impropriety of making my patient wait while 1 apparently amused myself, could have prevented my touching the keys of that instrument, which 
vol. I. K her 
[ 194 ] 
her delicate fingers had So often pres fed. 
When I opened the chamber door, Mr. Arlington expressed great Satisfaction at having me to attend him, — I was glad for my lucy’s Sake, to find his person rather agreeable than otherwise; his manner is easy and polite, but not what the French nation would style, bien poli! for he has no Servility about him. 
I am again Sent for, — but will conclude this on my return. 
(in CONTINUATION.) 
Wednesday Morning, 
It was So late when I returned from cleveland’s, and my Spirits were So agitated with theconfiidl: of my mind, that I was willing to apply to the Restorer 
balmy 
[ m ] 
balmy steep !’* — before I concluded my letter: I am a little recruited, and will now tell you the occasion of my being Sent for. 
arlington’s pain had So greatly increased, that it had brought on a very violent inflammatory fever : — Doctor 
H -- -- --, (cleveland’s physician) Said I 
had with my usual shill, endeavoured to remove the tumour, but he was fearful the consequences would baffle our endeavours, and a mortification would Soon ensue. — I do not myself thinkfiim in any danger, as he has been a very temperate man, and has a good habit of body. 
The melancholy man always'prefages misfortunes, and my next fear is, that Lucy will be Sent for: this fear has its foundation, for miss Cleveland Said last night, “Mr. Arlington had expressed K 2 gteat 
[ >96 ] 
great anxiety to See Lucy; and notwithstanding she had wrote to him by every post, he was not Satisfied. — My father” Said she “observed, that Lucy had better remain at Oxford, as a lick room would add to the depressure her illness had left upon her spirits, and her presence could be no assistance to the recovery of a Sprained ankle : on your account I know he wishes her to remain in the country; ” but Mr. Arlington replied, “True — even lucy’s presence cannot give ease to my corporeal feelings or make the inflammation cease— — is she not the friend of my bosom?? — is not friendship she alleviator of every evil? — but admitting it were not — It IS fancynot the of things, that 
makes us happy or miserable; and as it consists in the mind alone, I cannot conceit but 1 should be better, were she here to nurse me.” — my father then 
Said, 
[ 197 ] 
Said, “He would have no wfll but his.” 
Now, Delmont, lliould I have an interview with my beloved Lucy! how shall I be able to conduct myself with propriety? — though absence may cool moderate pashons, it inflames violent ones. Could I but behold her with a Stoical apathy? — but it is impossible : IS only the sight of the hoiise she lived in; the harpsichord from which her taste and judgement drew Such ravishing Sounds, could unman me So far as to make me shed tears? how — how — shall I Support an interview with the woman on whom my heart still dotes, knowing her the wise of another? 
My friend Grenville too, is absent, when I stood most in need of his Society; he is obliged to visit a dying relation in Devonshire. -- Nothing all 
K 3 viates 
[ 198 ] 
viates afhidlions So much, as the privi ledge of complaining, but I have not time to write half I wish to communicate. Cannot you come to me in the course of the week? — it is impossible to describe the degree of consolation your company would afford me. 
** Celestial happiness, whene’er fly stoops To visit earth, one shrine the goddess finds. 
And one alone to make her sweet amends “For absent heaven — the bosom of a friend j “Where heart meets heart, reciprocally soft“ 
“others pillow to repose divine.” 
Come then, my valued friend! — and by your Society ease the afflicted bosom of. 
Your 
H. BOSWELL. LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXX 
HENRY BOSWELL T o 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ dean ftreet. 
A H, Charles!' all your kind interr» tions are Srustrated. — Arlington, though” extremely ill, would write himsels to Lucy; what must she have Selt, when she received the Summons to town? — tomorrow!! produce that dreaded interview, which your friendly and well judging heart, endeavoured So caresully to be avoided. — Could I once have believed it possible to have Seen Lucy Cleveland with reluctance? — nay, — I do not now! — It is Mr. arungtop^ wife whom I wish to avoid. — To see K 4 heir 
[ 200 ] 
her the wise of another, is a degree worse than knowing her to be Such : — yet if Arlington should cie, may I not look forward to a reward for all my past and present afflictions } 
circumstance, as it will give you pleasure, I am induced to acquaint you with, which is, that Delmont arrived here last night, and pfomises to make a long stay, with 
Your unfortunate, but sincere 
HENRY BOSWELL. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXI 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O, 
MRS. D O R M E R. 
, St. james’s ftreet. 
MR. Arlington expressed great joy at Seeing me; but not more than from the Sormer part of his conduct I expected, or more than 1 believe he really felt. 
Your father’s friend, Mr. boswell, ” Said he, “a few days after my arrival, is a very ssdlsul man; he has a most insinuating manner, and possesses more tenderness, than I thought the profession of Surgery could have admited of: but K 5 he 
[ 202 ] 
he is less Srequent in his visits than I could wisn.” 
It is a proof they are unnecessary. Said I; and the faculty who are in good practice, cannot Spare time for visits of compliment. 
Ah, Fanny! how little does he sus ped the reason, why the ill-fated Harry! declines his company ^ but how kind, how uncommonly prudent in him to avoid an interview? — but it must be— — * 
loud r^p at the street door! — my God 1 — should it be him how shall I conceal my agitation? — the very idea of Seeing him has put my mind in Such a perturbation, that I must lay aside my pen for the presenr. — As I know you will be anxious to hear from me immediately after my arrival in town, I will dispatch this by to night’s post, other i wise 
[ 203 I 
wise I would not have concluded it until this dreaded interview is over, 
Efieem may be essential in making a good wise; — but I am Sure that alone can never make a happy one. — Ah! why can I not love Mr. Arlington The reason is too obvious 
Farewell! 
LUCY ARLINGTON, 
k6 LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXII 
MRS. ARLINGTON T o 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. james’s street. 
IT is over! — we have Seen each other — Ah! what means t us palpitation? what is he — what can he ever be to me? O, Fanny! how I blush at my weakness. 
The moment he entered the room, I Selt myselsso agitated, that I trembled to that degree I could Scarce Support rnysels; — my Sace Slushed like Scarlet; and 1 was obliged to close the window shutter at the foot of the bed, to conceal the quick trahfition in my countenance 
[ S ] 
tenance from Mr. Arlington : for I cannot, indeed I cannot, call him my husband. boswell Saw — and Selt my Situation; he bowed respedlsully as he pasted me, and looked much more than would have been prudent to have uttered. But, Fanny, how much may be Said without opening the lips! how warm, how tender the Sentiments that may be communicated, without the cold interposition of Speech! 
When he approached the bed, he told Mr. Arlington he looked infinitely better. “I am So, I thank God, ” Said he, “but my wife, ” an appellation. I wished at that moment he had not used, “will not permit you. to See me, she has made the room So dark.” — After Seeming in doubt what he should call me, boswell Said, it was. a very prudent precaution, as the light was toa strong before for a Sick room, but that 
he 
[ 2o6 ] 
he wished Mrs. Arlington to leave the apartment, as he was pressed for time, and should chuse to examine his ankle. 
How considerate, how delicate the proposal! I was going to withdraw, when the contrasted Mr. Arlington called me back. “Stay here, my love, what false delicacy is this; Mr. bos well forgets how we are Situated, ” the unfortunate young man, sighed and shook his head at this false impeachment of his memory, “or he would never suppose you was afraid to See my ankle.” — When he had made this indelicate observation, I heard boswell Say, for I was on the other fide of the bed, the curtains drawn between us; “You do not stand in need of a fresh applicar tion, and I am happy to inform youj you have no farther occasion for a Surgeon; Dodfor H — — will, I suppose, order you more medicines to brace you, 
and 
[ 2°7 1 
and I hope a few days will restore you to perfect health.” 
Mr. Arlington expressed himself in the rnost gratesul terms for the Speedy cure, and Said, “Though I lose the Surgeon, may I not hope for the pleasure of retaining So agreeable an acquaintance ?” “You do me honour was all the reply. Mr. Arlington requested his acceptance of a twenty pound note, at the same time apologising for the smallness of the sum : bos well, what his motive was I cannot tell, persisted to decline it; Saying, he had too many obligations to Mr. Cleveland, to receive a pecuniary reward, for any trifling Services he had been fortunate enough to render to any part of his family, and retired with So much precipitation from the room, that it was impossible for Mr. Arlington again to Solicit him. 
When 
[ 2o8 ] 
When boswell was gone, he called me to him : “This is a very extraordinary young man, Lucy! to resuse being paid for a cure which is within the line of his profession : if he frequently pradlifes this unusual genero sity, pray how does he live? has he a fortune independent of business ^ and pray what mighty obligations has he to your family? 
I told him I knew of none, unless he thought he owed Some gratitude to my father, for having spoke favourably of him in his profession, and having introduced him into Several families: that I had never heard he had any fortune which could render him independent of bufiness, and that his refusing the note, was totally unaccountable. 
. He is. married, I think. Said. Mr. Arlington, I recollect your father told 
me 
[ 2°9 ] 
me he was parted from his wife. How fortunate for me he was not Single, So amiable — So accomplished a man! had he been free to chuse, being So intimate in your family, would probably, have had a prior claim to my lovely girl! — but you are an excellent creature! and at least have made a prudent choice; you have fixed on a man, whose every wish of his heart, points but to your happiness— — I successful, are you happy 
Nobody, I replied, more sensible of my obligations to you; and you know it was my choice to marry you. — The bell Summoned us to dinner, and relieved me from a conversation, on which 
I must leave you to comment. -- -- You will 
observe my reply was laconick; I thought it most prudent for abhorring dissimulation : by Saying what I did, I 
avoided 
[ 210 ] 
avoided exceeding the bounds of sincerity and truth. 
But " the inconceivable torture of a bleeding heart, reproaching itself with unsuspefted crimes! How depressing and insupportable the burden of unmerited praise, and of an esteem, of which the heart is confeious it is unworthy 1” 
Farewell! my Spirits are overpowered. 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET[ 
[ 1 
LETTER XXXIII 
MRS. DORMER T O 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
Oxford. 
MY heart feels most sensibly for your situation, my poor Suffering friend 1 and my own Spirits are too much depressed, to write anything that will amuse your mind; but remember what the wise Seneca Said, “It were no virtue to bear calamities, if we did not feel them.’* I can only advise you to make yourself as easy as possible, and exert your Spirits to the utmost when you are with Mr. Arlington. You know he has very frequently noticed the gravity of your asped; and as he 
is 
[ 212 ] 
is (and I hope ever will remain) ignorant of the real state of your heart, and has reason to suppose you possessed of every blessing this world can bestow, do, my Lucy, endeavour to disguise your troubles, in his presence, under the malk of pleasantry, lest he may sup suppose you a character, So different to what you really are — unhappy and discontented without a cause. Your own good Sense and knowledge of human nature will point out to you, that should a fuspicion of this kind arise in his mind, it will Sour his temper,, depreciate you in his esteem, and make you still more wretched than you are. It is rather uncommon for me to presume to give you advice, but I could not lose an opportunity of admonishing you on a subject So essential to your peace of mind, but I am a very altered woman within a short time — I think more than I ever did in my life. 
Is 
J[ 
[ ] 
Is it not the basest of passions, to like what we have not, and slight what we possess?? — I do think this Sedgwick will break my heart. But were he to Sue for my forgiveness, it would be in vain, for I can never forget his treachery. 
I believe Rochefoucault was right, when he Said that “Women can Sooner forgive great indiscretions than Small infidelities and since he has proved Such a dissembler to your Fanny, I wish he and .Delia were married : there would then be a period to all my expectations, whereas I now one moment hope, the next despair. 
I heard yesterday a report that mr. Dormer was expected in England; if it has any foundation, is it not very extraordinary he should not acquaint me with it? — Should it be So, and absence 
[ 214 ] 
Sense has cured him of his ill grounded jealousy, it shall not be my fault if we are not happy. I am Sure, in Some respeds, he is more amiable than Sedgwick, for he never deceived me. 
I cannot account for my father’s remaining here, now the company has deserted the place, I have expressed my wish to return to Mrs. Newman, who in her last letter, very kindly lamented my absence: she complains of being lonely, and would like to have all our family with her, but Says she wants' Delia in particular, to See Sir William Selby, a very agreeable young bachelor, who has purchased a house in her neighbourhood, and who wants the necessary and ornamental piece of furniture, a wife. “Tell Colonel Morley, ” says she, “I am determined on a match between this Spark and Delia; they are too Such lovely contrasts, that I think 
their 
[ 215 ] 
their offspring must prove the medium of persedlion : besides, Delia is near Seventeen, and she will be past her prime if she waits much longer; and I think it is time she was married. 
I am of her opinion, but Sancy, Sir William, will be too late; I mean for her heart, but perhaps her person will be Sufficient, and all he may be ambitious to poffess. 
I thought I heard a Scream, and looking off my paper, I perceived Sedgwick and Delia at the further end of a walk, opposite the window where I am now writing: she was sitting on his knee, with one of his arms round her waist, his other hand placing Some flowers in her bosom, what occasioned the Scream I can only guess at, but he very Soon stopped her breath. — Ah! what a Scene! — yet I envy her not the 
kisses. 
[ ] 
kisses, is he had not Served me in the like manner, you know we should not have quarrelled, but as I suppose they intend to marry, she does not Seem offended. — Mrs. fortescue calls — I will conclude this the first leisure moment. 
Adieu! pour la present, 
FANNY DORMER. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXIV 
MRS. DORMER 
TO 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
1 
(in continuation.) 
Oxford. 
MISS Delia has justlestme; she has been complaining she had no Sleep last night. 
What could occasion you to be rest jess? Said 1, had Mr. Sedgwick been unkind to you? — “Lord, what s Mr. Sedgwick to me — why, your lover, Delia: is he not? — it looks Something like it. “The man is civil to me, but 
vol. I. L he 
[ ] 
he has not the presumption, I hope, to cxped: I shall marry him! — I should like the fellow well enough, if he had rank;, would take me a house in one of our capital Squares, keep me a Splendid equipage, six fine fellows in laced liveries to strut before my chair. Supply me with plenty of money, without being impertinent enough to ask what was become of it, never make one of my private parties; in short, do what I bid him, and let me follow my inclinations in everything: — If — if — if all these iffs were out of the way, it is barely posh ble I should condescend to honour him with my hand; as to heart, that is a consideration only for the canaille. No, no, he did not prevent my steeping.; but I find we are to go to Henley in a day or two; and Mrs. Newman has very impertinently pointed out to the Colonel (for she never calls him father), Sir William Selby for a husband 

[ 219 ] 
band for me, a poor Knight !’* Said she, laughing immoderately, “I shall indeed marry him, when I have a duke in my train.” 
That is news indeed! Said I, I never heard of this noble offer, pray, may I alk his title, and when I am to have the honour to call him brother? 
“Matters, ” she replied, “have not gone on quite So fast as you have: the 
Duke of H -- -- -- Satin the next box, 
the last time I was at the opera; he is a very handsome fellow, and I marked him for my own, immediately. — He ogled, I Simpered, I stung my arm carelessly over the fide of the box, he (as Some people would have thought) accidentally touched it. — I drew it away angrily, and leaned my cheek upon my hand ‘ O, ’ Said he, ‘ that I were a L 2 glove 
[ 220 ] 
glove upon that hand, that I might touch that cheek !’ — “He then, in my hearing, inquired who I was? and I make no doubt but, on my return to town, I shall hear farther from him.” I wish you may. Said I, but suppose Sir William Selby should be agreeable, and his Sortune what you wish it, why should you object?? 
“my fortune merits a little higher rank than he can give me.” 
Seeing Sedgwick in the garden, she quitted the room without Saying another word, and she actually run into his arms, which were open to receive her. 
1 have been thus minute in my detail, to give you an idea of this girl’s character; she is not yet Seventeen, and 
her 
[ 221 ] 
her vast Sortune which she boasss of, will, at her father’s death, be about ten thousand pounds. 
Adieu, my much loved Lucy, 
FANNY DORMER. 
j 
l3 LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXV 
MRS. ARLINGTON T o 
MRS. DORMER 
St. james’s street. 
M R. Arlington is So well recovered, that he talks of going to harley street in a day or two. When we return to our house, I will give you my Sentiments on your last letter, but at present I am incapable of writing on any Subject of So trifling a nature as the conversation of Delia. 
No longer attempt to follow my example, for whatever prudence you might formerly think I possessed, I do affure you it no longer exists. 
Mr. 
[ 223 ] 
Mr. Arlington last night expreffeci an inclination for a rubber at whist: he is as fond of cards as my father — you know my aversion to them — but knowing if I declined, we could not make a Set with our own family, and as I was not in Spirits, to wish for the company of strangers, I Set to the table without showing any reludance, and having your friendly and well judged admonitions in my memory, I intended to appear quite allegro, and had dressed my face with Smiles, that I might appear consistent in my new assumed character: we waited a considerable time in expectation of my Sister; our patience being exhausted, my father Sent her maid, to desire her to come down; but she, pleading a slight indisposition, declined it: I then went myself to her. I found her lying down on the bed, she complained of a violent headache, and fickness at her stomach; “burr, ” Said L 4 she,, 
[ 224 ] 
she, “I wished to avoid mentioning my indisposition to my Sather, for when I complained of my head, Doctor H — told him, is I was not better Soon, I must lose a little blood; you know it IS an operation I have never undergone, and though my Sears are groundless, I cannot get the better of them, and I am particularly careful to avoid it, until you are gone to harley street.” 
How kindly considerate in her? to avoid my having another interview with the too amiable boswell! for that by her manner and hints, was the motive for concealing her illness. 
When I went down, Mr. Arlington expressed great impatience at my stay, but my father, with his usual good-humour, observed, that “Maria might have Some very important matter to communicate.’* 
At 
[ 225 ] 
At that instant there was a loud rap at the door, and the Servant announced the name of boswell. — “This is just what I wished, ” Said Mr. Arlington. — My father accosted him with his accustomed kindness, yet Seemed for my sake, to wish he had not come. You may guess how much I was surprised, by a visit from him who had formerly given every proof, that he wished to decline them. — He started back at his first entrance, and it was So apparently at the Sight of me, that I was terrified, lest Mr. Arlington should have observed it. My father looked So much vexed at his behaviour, that boswell See; med to think Some apology necessary. 
“This is a pleasure, Mr. Arlington, I did not expect” ” he, “1 was in hopes you was So well recovered, that you was returned to harley street: on my word, I was. in debate whether I L 5 should 
[ 226 ] 
should not give your house the preference, until gratitude pulled me by the fieeve, and Said, Cleveland has a prior claim. This determined me, and you lee — you See, ” Said he, stammering, “how I am rewarded.” 
“Come, ” Said Mr. Arlington, “we enlist you for a fourth, ” clapping him on the shoulder, “not to Serve the king, but to make four kings subservient to you.” 
“With all my heart, ” he replied, “but as the husband should not be in opposition to the wife, nor the father to the child, I claim the lady for my partner.” 
It was agreed. — Now though you are better acquainted with me, than any other person, nay know me Sometimes better than I know myself, you 
can 
[ 227 ] 
can form no just idea of my feelings during the game: we were both So inattentive, that we lost considerably; my eyes involuntarily strayed across the table, which a man of less penetration than Mr. Arlington must have observed; yes, Fanny, he saw my embarrass ment, the other two ft It it. Mr. bos wcll apologised for his inattention, but declared his head was So confused, that he wished to be excused playing longer. “I dined with my friend Dclaiont, ” Said he, “at the shakespeare, and very imprudently drank too much Port wine, it never agrees with me, and though I am mot absolutely drunk, I am in Some degree intoxicated.” ' 
My father kindly. proposed his retiring, and Said he would be very well. aster a night’s rest, and the Sooner he applied to the remedy the better. — I think So, indeed, ” Said Mr. Arlington,, L 6 “for 
[ 228 ] 
“for he Seems to have lost all his Spirits, and eclat for company already.” 
My father then pressed him to have a coach, which he refused, saying the air would be of Service to him. 
Fanny! he looked really ill, and I very imprudently proposed the Servants going with him. ‘‘ See, ” Said Mr. Arlington, “what it is to be a hand some young fellow, even my wife is anxious for your Safety.” This he Spoke with a Smile, but not with good-humour. 
boswell retired, but left the better part of him, 1 am Sure, with your Lucy. — Mr, Arlington was Sullen the rest of the evening, and my poor father thoughtful: I Soon renred, on pretence of visitirig my sister’s room before I 
went 
[ 229 ] 
went to bed, but in reality to give vent to my bursting heart. 
Surely, Fanny! I cannot long Survive these conflicts. — If Some are refined, like gold, in the Surnace of af fiiclion, there are many more that, like chaff, are consumed in it— — only knows how I have struggled with my ill-fated passion — it was unfortunate — it is criminal. I married to obey an indulgent father: I thought in Mrs. Arlington, to have lost the feelings of Lucy Cleveland. 
Though Mr. Arlington is petulant, and has many foibles, he has few faults; though it is not in my nature to love him, I may Say, without deviating from truth, it has been the study of every hour of my life, Since I have lived with him, to please him. 
Uni 
23° ] 
Unfortunately for me, he would have Boswell for his Surgeon, he thought him So humane. So sensible, So agreeable, that he Solicited his acquaintance. — I who had began the talk of endeavouring to love my husband— — who had determined never to See boswell, lest I might wish myself his wife — am des tined to repeated interviews, and sub jedled to Such trials, as I confess myself unequal to. 
At times I determine to make Mr. Arlington acquainted with the state of my heart, to request him to let me retire to bis countryseat in Essex, to have no Society but his; and by contemplating his many virtues, forget there is my refradory heart still believes more amiable— — 
again, I expose my father, who deceived Mr. Arlington, when 
he 
[ 231 ] 
he accepted the alliance; and the violence of the latter’s temper, will never Suffer him to forget the injury; perhaps he may suspefl I confess but half my crime, and that his honour is already injured. 
In one word, I am distraded, I am ill, my constitution was never strong, and the repeated agitations of my Spirits, will perhaps release me from all my troubles. 
There are a great many miseries, which nothing but death can relieve, and I look on my afflidlions to be of that nature, which can hope for no other remedy. 
Why should I wish to remain here, when I am no longer capable to advise... my friend.? — I an example! — no: I 
am 
I 
[ '232 3 
am a wretch unworthy even of your pity. 
Ah, boswell! — yet he is not culpable. — Farewell! — 
I am blind with my tears. 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXVI 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
harley ftreet. 
W E returned here the morning after the painful and embarrafing Scene I painted in my last. Mr. Arlington expressed much joy at Seeing me once more in my own habitation. 
“I have Such pleasure, ” Said he, “in refiedling, it has been in my power to place you in Such a Sphere, and to See you have everything that money can purchase, that if we have health, my Lucy, we shall Surely be the happiest of human beings! 
Nobody 
[ 234 ] 
Nobody more Sensible, Said I, than mysels, of the many blessings I enjoy; nor is it possible to be more grateful than your Lucy is, to him who, next to the Supreme Being, has been the means of my possessing them. 
I know you mean mep Said he, (taking hold of my hand with less ardour, but more tenderness than I had before observed in him) “but you are a Sad hypocrite, Lucy, you are not happy, and consequently cannot have everything you wish.” 
I wish for nothing more, I replied, and I take Heaven to witness it! than your Society; I wish but to render myself agreeable to you (it, on the instant, occurred to me, that I might avoid any future interviews with boswell, by a proposition that would confirm these assertions, therefore Said): as a proof 
cf 
I 235 ] 
of it, let me propose our quitting town; you Say you have a very pleasant house in the neighbourhood of Chelmsford, I am told it commands Some very agreeable prospedls: I am very fond of the country, and shall there have an opportunity of enjoying our rational conversation, I can there have the additional Society of my much loved Fanny, and -- -- - 
“Say no more, my worthy girl, ” Said he, interrupting me, “no request of yours, but what shall be immediately complied with, you are all I wish you, and, as far as it is in my power, you shall be possessed of every desire of your heart, and then I shall enjoy all the fond expedations of mine. — I am fond of London, I confess, but even that place without my Lucy, would be a de sert; will you, without reluctance, stay only until the latter end of the week? 
as 
[ 236 ] 
as I have Some business to transad which I do not chuse to trust to my steward. 
How can you. Said T, think me So very unreasonable, to suppose I shall object to remaining here a few days, when you So kindly complied with my wishes — Tell me, whenever the opportunity occurs,, that I in any degree fall short of your wishes or expedla tions, that I may endeavour to be everything you desire“ 
“are, *’he replied, “everything 1 wish you, and want nothing to render your countenance Superior to any woman’s I ever Saw, but a cheerful aspedl: but the country will work wonders, and the experiment shall be made very shortly.” 
Your 
[ 237 ] 
Your letter was then brought me, “There, ” Said he, “I will now leave you, you cannot want company, when you have a letter to peruse from your dearest Sstiend.” 
Fanny! how extremely awkward one feels, not to be able to love a person, who forces one to esteem them. — 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXVII 
MRS. DORMER 
T O 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
newman place, Henley. 
YOUR letter, my best beloved, my unhappy friend! needs no reply; I can neither advise you how to conduct your self, nor Say anything that can console you in your present critical Situation. All I shall endeavour at, will be to amuse your mind, to make you, if pos sshle, Sorget, though I cannot remove your cares. 
We returned to this Sweet place a few days Since; and Delia left Sedgwick, 
[ 239 ] 
wick, without betraying that concern I d'd suppose she would have felt on the occasion. He handed her into the coach, and left me without an escorr, had not my father with his accustomed politeness offered his Services. — But believe me, Lucy, my pride was on this occasion more wounded than my heart: indeed, Sedgwick appears less and less amiable every day : a proof how impos sible it is to love any object long, after.. we are assured another woman is preferred. 
I begin to be very anxious for Mr. dormer’s return; and as I have not received letters by the last ships, I am Sometimes apt to believe he means to Surprise me. — But to return to Delia, who I assure you has made no Small bustle in this village. 
The 
I 240 ] 
The night after she came, Mrs. Newman invited Sir William Selby, without informing him of the company he was to meet. He was, as every man must be at first sight, attrarsted with delia’s charms; and as far as I can. judge by his behaviour to her, it will be her own fault, if she is not very Soon Lady Selby. 
She ran into my room this morning, and Seeing me thus employed. “Lord, ” says she, “what can you have to write about? I believe you tell Mrs. Arlington of every new cap that comes from wilkinson’s.” — Upon my word. Said I, 
I never heard of such a millener. -- -- 
“No !” Said she, “but why should I be Surprised? how should you, who Sit like Lady Grace, Soberly under Some great tree, be a competent judge of the sion F — But my dear, that you may not 
appear 
[ 24t ] 
appear quite So rusticated a creature when you come to London, I will be So friendly as to inform you, that you, would be laughed at by people of fash shion, if you was to purchase a cap because it pleased your fancy. There are a few milleners about town who have a Name and if you was to appear in the female parties, in a cap of Some woman’s make who nobody knew, you would Subject yourself to their Severest sarcasms. 
“Why, what a vulgar wretch! Says one; she has absolutely an opinion of her own! Says another: in short, my dear. Mrs. Dormer, if you stay much longer out of the polite circle, it will be a difficult matter to polish off the rust you will have acquired. But I must know what you can find to Say to your favourite Lucy? Tell me, have you been dcpidling my Adonis? O Ciel! what 
vol, I, M eyes? 
[ 242 } 
eyes? what hair! — then Such a mouth! ornamented with two Such rows of ivory !” 
For heaven’s Sake, Delia, Said I, moderate your transports; have you sought for no farther recommendation in Sir William Selby, than merely the charms of his person?? 
yes, yes, ” Said she, “I have not forgot two other very great essentials, his and hhfortunep 
What a poor Knight! Said I, when you have a Duke in your train? 
“I tell you,, ” Said she, I will marry Sir William, if it. is only to Spite his rival, who is absolutely a baboon compared to Selby; and I shall, then have the Satisfadfion to seo his Grace ready to hang hiinself for his non cbahncep 
Her 
[ 243 ] 
Her Sather callrstg her, relieved rhe from her tiresome and irrational conversation. But I cannot help expres fing my concern at her being likely to be the wife of Sir William Selby. A man, wliorfi one would suppose, had southeast ledled the unexceptionable parts of Lord chesterfield’s letters to his Son, and formed his mind and manners on their plan. 
I think his person is notunlike bos well’s; but though his face is perfectly agreeable, it wants his piercing eyes and aquiline nose to render it to my taste equally handsome. 
I have Seen my father Since I described selby’s person, and have learned from M 2 his 
[ 244 ] 
his conversation, that he highly approves of him for a son in law. 
“Do you, Fanny, ” Said my father, “use your influence with Delia, to throw no obstacles to impede the match, I wish she was already married; I have my reasons 
Before I could make him any reply he left me. — It is a proof he knows little of either of us, to suppose anything I could say would influence her : but I believe there is no fear of her repulses, if Sir William should express a wish to have the marriage Speedy. They have not been acquainted more than one month, and Mrs. Newman just told me, matters had been Settled So expedition fly, that a Set of pearls was already, bespoke for the wedding : as likewise an elegant vis a vis, in the last taste : I would have frenchified the expression, 
but 
[ 245 ] 
but recolledting the have 
adopted it, I will content myself witk plain vulgar English. 
The very thoughts of a vis a«vis and ail the attendant, etceteras, with the addition of. My Lady, and your Ladyship, for ever buzzing in her ears, will, 1 Sear, deprive Such a girl as Delia of her little wits. 
** 'tis these that early taint the female soul, 
Instruct the eyes of young Coquettes to roll. 
Teach infant cheeks a bidden bluih to know. 
And little hearts to flutter at a Beaux, ” 
Though I See a thousand faults in the girl, yet as the daughter of Colonel Morley I must wish her happily set led. Sir Vfilliam has known her So short a time, it must be difficult for him, or her, to know the true Situation of their hearts. — I hope he loves her, M 3 for 
/ 
[ 246 ] 
for he who marries a woman he does not love, will, it is to be feared, love a woman he cannot tsijarry. 
I am obliged to quit this pleasing employ. 
Adieu I 
FANNY DORMER. 
L E TI 
247 3 
letter XXXVIII ^rs. ARLINGTON 
T o 
Mrs. dormer. 
harley ilreet. 
BEFORE I thank you for the amusement your last letter has afforded me, I must observe to you, that I feel released of a great weight off riiy mind, by having my wishes to go in the country so willingly arid kindly complied with : but is it not evident Mr. Arlington suspects, and in Sorhe degree pities my refractory heart — Yet the impetuosity of his temper on some occasions, I have thought very culpable; and is it in human nature to be calm M 4 and 
[ 248 ] 
and patient when So grossly deceived, not to Say injured, Surely not.? — but of this 1 am certain, that the Scene at the card table was too particular to pass unnoticed. 
I know it will give you pleasure, to hear that my Spirits are more elated than I have felt them since my marriage, at the thoughts of going into 
Essex. -- -- I shall go to my Sister this 
evening, to request her to accompany me; and as I have no doubt but you will be happy to have an opportunity of enjoying your lucy’s Society, and at the Same time avoid an interview with Captain Hallifax, I shall expect you to oblige Mr. Arlington, my making a fourth at the card table : remember how much, and how recently he has obliged your Lucy; and I know you will rejoice at an opportunity of being grateful to him for my sake. — Ah! — 
of 
[ 249 ] 
of what does the card table remind me? how weak and irresolute is woman! 
But to your letter. -- -- Your wishes 
were accomplished; I was amused, and it dissipated for a moment, (to use the fashionable phrase) my ennm. I agree with you, that Selby is too good for Delia. I am Sorry to find the Colonel is for precipitating the match : as to his wishing her married, you may depend it is in conscquencc of the observations he has made on the behaviour betweeri her and Mr. Sedgwick. 
When we judge most favourably, we allow her to be forward, and coquettish, two very dangerous qualities in a handr Some young girl. Not that I can even \ her face, you may stare! — But: let a woman be decked with all the embellishments of art, or giftsof Nature,, yet if boldnessos So strongly painted in M. 5 her 
[ 25° ] 
her face, it will cbliterate all the lines of beauty. I not apt to be cectq^ rious, but my own penetration convinces me, that she is indebted to her pride for her chastity. ^i Speak net froin report, but form my own opinion, from feeing her with Sedgwick, with Grenville, with fortescue, and every man whom I have over heard tell her she was hand So me. Colonel Morley is 
much to be pitied; I fear she will prove a great affiidtion to him, — I think it would be but kind in you to inform him of the Scenes you have been witness to between her and Sedgwick, before he presents Selby with her hand, 
I have Sent you the books you have often expressed a wish to read, “The Beauties of shakespear collected.” I think there is too great a Similarity in, our tastes, for you to approve their being fslewed.■^such a nosegay of Sweets I i is 
[ 2^1 ] 
is too powersul, I like the flowers better when Scattered through the wilder ness: there they have fragrarrcy, but here they are too luscious. “So sv/eet the sense aches at it.” 
Farewell — 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXIX 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
TO 
MRS. DORMER. 
harley ftreet. 
JUST as I had concluded my last letter to you, Mr. Arlington came to me in my dressing-room, “Come, Lucy, ” Said he, “Sor once study which cap is most becoming! There is an old friend of mine (though a young man) coming to dine with me, and promises to introduce his wife to you; he declares she is the prettiest woman in England : but as 1 have Some thoughts of disputing that point with him, 1 desire you will not leave anything neglected that may Support my argument; the 
caution 
[ 253 ] 
caution to you is almost needless, but remember you do not make yourself fine; it is not the style of dress I admire : the plainer the dress, with the greater lufire does beauty appear, for, 
** Loveliness needs not the foreign aid of Ornament, but is, when unadorned. 
adorn’d the most.” 
excuse me, my love, I own it a foible, but I cannot help being vain of your person though I allow good sense, good-humour, and complacency of temper in a wife, outlive all the charms of a fine face, and make the decay of it in Some degree invisible 
Well, Said I, assuming an air of gaiety, you shall see what a divinity I will make myself; but you must not be So lavish in your encomiums on this person 
of 
I 254 I 
of mine, suppose I should grow vain and coquettish in my old age? 
“Excellent creature! there is witchcraft in your Smiles — but I must leave thee, or you will not be dressed, to receive our guests.” — Not until you tell me their names. “Haliifax, ” he replied, “He is a Captain in the East-india company’s Service.” 
This left me no room to doubt he was the very person, who caused your abrupt departure from town; and I was extremely glad I had never mentioned the circumstance to Mr. Arlington, for as they are acquainted, ' it might have been communicated. 
He came according to promise, and introduced Mrs. Hallifax. She is a little woman, has a very fair Ikin, though not a fine texture; pale languishing 
blue 
[ 255 ] 
blue eyes, and regular Seatures; in short, her face is as pretty as an inanimate one can be : she wants that ease which is So essential to make a person really the gentlewoman. She has the appearance of a person bred up in the country, and unused to company, who wishes to be thought a lady of tonne She declared she was extremely delicate in her constitution, and I am certain, thinks nothing lb vulgar as rohufi health. ^she reminded nie of those lines in the love of same. 
The languid lady next appears in date. 
Who was not born to carry her own weight; 
She lojls, reels, flaggers, till feme foreign aid To her own stature lifts the feeble maid. 
Then, if ordain’d to so severe a doom. 
She by just journeys round the room: 
But, knowing her own weakness, fly despairs To scale the alps^^zx is, afeend the fiairs. 
My fan! lot others say, who laugh at toil; 
Jan I hood I glove! scars! is her laconkk style j 
And 
[ ^56 1 
And thatis spoke with such a dying fall, 
That Betty rather fees than hears the call : 
The motion of her lips, and meaning eye. 
Piece out th’ idea her faint words deny. 
O listen with attention most profound! 
Her voice, is but the shadow of a sound. 
And help! Oh help! her spirits are so dead. 
One hand scarce lifts the other to her head. 
If, there, a stubborn pin it triumphs o’er, 
She pants! flhe links away! • and is no more. 
Let the robust, and the 
Life is not worth so much, ftie’^d rather Jiarve t But chew Ihe must herself j ah! cruel fate! 
That Rofalinda can’t by proscy eat.” 
It is true I know little of her, but one thing particularly disgusted me, which was her lovitig me excefftvely after being five hours in my company. 
When they were gone, Mr. Arlington paid many compliments to my person, too flattering, not to Say fulsome, to repeat. He was absolutely in a passion 
at 
I 257 ] 
at Hallifax daring to Say, his wife was as handsome as myself: “I am Sure, ” Says he, “though she is a Simpleton, 
, she has more art than innocence about her.” Dear Mr. Arlington, Said I, how can you judge So cruelly on So slight an acquaintance? 
“O, I can See into peoples characters very Soon, and I am Seldom mistaken in the opinion I first form : every one Says, he married her for her pretty face, and she him, to be mistress of an elegant house. He told me himself, ■ that he run away with her from a clergyman’s house near Chelmsford, where. she was placed by her guardian, an old crusty hunks, who wished to marry her himself, that he might be possessed of her fortune. 
When I inquired who was her guardian, and what her fortune was? — He 
Said, 
I 258 ] 
Said, it was very little consequence ta him who he was, or what money she was entitled to; it was the lovely girrhersdf he wanted the possession af, and that he had obtained but to tell you the truth, continued he, I believe her connexions are not the genteelest in the' world, and what little money she may have in her guardians hands, I, at her request, consented she should relinquish to her Sister, by way of a marriage por rion.forsher; iri short, I wasresoived to agree to that, or anything else, to void being pestered with a tribe of people claiming relationship, which. Situated as Yn&'w am, I should blush to own.” 
I agreed with Mr. Arlington, that this atiecdote related by Gaptash Hallifax, is of a very extraordinary nature; but he Says he is So thoughtless a charaxer, and frequently axs with Such precipitation, that it is like enough to be true. 
But 
[ 259 ] 
But the most agreeable intelligence to me, was his declaring it his intention to quit town next Monday. — I told you, Fanny, in my last, I would go to my sister’s; but on refiedion, I think, it will be more prudent to fendr — I will endeavour while I remain in town, to shun my sather’s house, though it contains two Such worthy beings; for may not boswell happen to be there? — and once more meet with, 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
THE END OF VOL. L 
[ 219 ] 
I should probably have Sell a victim to his entreaties, had I not dreaded thesor seiture oslucy’s friendship. 
Reflection has convinced me, that had I been wretched enough to have been longer blinded by niy criminal affection, I should have been Severely pu* nished, by the loathing which would have Succeeded those sensations, to which I had sacrificed my honour. — You know my favourite Rousseau Says, “There can' be no pleasure in any enjoyment which the heart cannot approve, and which tends to fink in our estimation theoyedofour love. Abstrad the idea of perfection, and our enthusiasm vanishes : take away our esteem, and love is at an end.” 
Indeed, I fear the too culpable Delia, has lost her honour, without finding felicity. For though I once Saw Sedgwick L 2 through 
[ 220 ] 
through a salse medium, I know not a man more likely to despise her, for the confidence she has placed in him. — Ah, Harriet! what a different character is to your friend Grenvilld.%? 
Seymour, who is at my elbow, insists I do not write another line to you, until I can insorm you of his union with my Lucy; — I will comply with the worthy creature’s commands, as So short a time will elaspe, besore you will again hear. 
From your affectionate 
FANNY DORMER. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER LXXVI 
MRS. DO RMER 
TO 
M R S, N E W M A N. 
Brentwood. 
THE amiable lovers are united, they were married this morning by a Special licence at her father’s house, and the late miss Cleveland, has entitled herself to the name of Delmont, which I will venture to Say, she has long wished for. 
It was agreeable to all parties that vve should Set off for Delmont Hall, as Soon as the ceremonies were over, and you will perceive by the place I have dated L 3 this 
[ 222 ] 
this from, that we are So far on our way. 
You will naturally think it extraordinary that I should find time to write on such a day, and even before we are arrived at our journey’s end, but the two pair of lovers are best company for each other, and Mr. Cleveland has taken this opportunity, to call on a gentleman in this neighbourhood, en passant- -- 
“is Grenville, you will say ?” — In a corner of the room viewing a print of a horse race, to appear once my friend, for I believe his mind very differently employed — poor man! how 1 felt for him at the moment, when the clergyman pronounced Seymour and Lucy, man and wife: — I wish; but I am married, and are Saucy -- -- therefore 
I will not tell you what I wish. 
A pen 
[ 223 1 
A pen and ink (the sheet of paper I must pay for) stood So invitingly ready, — that as I had no person’s hand to Squeeze, nor anybody to gaze on with rapture, (you may believe me Harriet) 
I thought I could not adopt a better mode of employ, than Satisfying a friendly curiosity. 
We should not have stopped here, but that the gentlemen conceited their brides would be famished if they did not take Some refreshment before they got to delmont’s* 
Lucy, whom I never before Saw partake of any sort of cakes, has just aci cepted a piece, but observe, Seymour requested it, and I believe if the truth was known, she would prefer gazing oii him, to partaking of the greatest dainties his inclinations could procure her; 
no 
[ 224 ] 
no wonder, — for he is indeed “made up of love and charms, whatever maid could wish, or man admire 
The carriages wait — adieu for the prefenr. 
delmont hall, tuesday midnight, 
WE have Spent the day in a most jagreeable manner; friendship, polite ness, and elegance, eonspired to render the whole absolutely enchanting, but as I never poffessfed the happy art of description, — expect not impossibilities. 
You have heard much of the beauties of this Spot, but it is as impossible for you to form, as for me to give you a just ideabftheimmensity of taste, which 
was 
[ 225 .1 
was displayed throughout the whole entertainment of the day. 
With what a greedy impatience did Seymour explore the beautisul Symmetry of his wife’s person! indeed, she appeared more than usually lovely on this day : — her hair without powder, and her whole dress So very becoming, that you would be at a loss to know, whether her dress gave additional charms to her beauty, or her loveliness gave additional beauties to her dress. 
Seymour appeared the gentlemans which is in my opinion. Saying more in his favour, than telling you what everybody who has Seen him muji know — that he is hand Some. 
He looked, as you may suppose, arrogantly happy— — just before Mr. Cleveland retired to his apartment, 
the 
[ 226 ] 
the enraptured Seymour caught Lucy in his arms, and exclaimed — 
** O my heart’s joy! — my soul hath her Content so absolute, that not another Comfort like to this, succeeds in unknown fate, ” 
Good night, my amiable friend, I could al most be cruel enough to Say, I am tired of feeing others happy 1 must invoke the drowsy god 
To visit your 
FANNY DORMER. 
LET: 
[ 2^7 3 
LETTER lxxvil, CHARLES GRENVILLE, E S 
T O 
THOMA5 NEWMAN, ESQ. 
stratford place. 
AS I hear your little boy is perfealy recovered, I shall not admit of an ex cuse for your remaining a week longer in the country: I am Sure, your amiable Harriet has been Secluded long enough from the gaieties of the town. You, and yours, are most anxioussy wished for, by Seymour and his lovely Lucy: there are apartments fitted up for all their friends 5 I do not mean nominal 
[ 228 ] 
nominal ones— — the approved friends 
of their heart. -- -- Being mine you are 
theirs — but let me request you to have a town residence in their neighbourhood, and I will promise to makfe it my home during the winter. My friendship for you, prior to my knowledge of him, will be a reasonable, and indeed, the only reason I can assign, for not accepting his offer of a continued accommodation in his house. 
It is generoiis in him to make the offer — I know he means it as a proof of that confidence, which I believe I shall never abuse; but, Newman, I have no apathy to boast of, therefore I would 2, w<i\d temptation. 
I was unfortunate enough to be rejected by the only woman I ever loved f but when she confessed with So much 
candour 
t 
[ 229 ] 
candour and liberality, that her heart was not in her possession, and afterwards acknowledged, the friend I most esteemed, was the object: of her affection. 
I determined to suppress all Selfish views, and devote my whole attention to the means of establishing their hap piness, 
Mr. Arlington died, and Providence has Secured to them the felicity of an union, as a reward to their constancy and many virtues. 
S I know not So amiable a pair!: but Lucy is still too charming: the shaft of envy will rankle in my bosom, and my reason Suggests that it will be more prudent to, reside with you, and visit Mrs, Seymour, the wife of my friend., than be the constant, companion of her,, whona 
1 have 
[ 230 ] 
I have been So long accustomed to call my Lucy 
Delmont has taken a house in graf tonne street, but I fancy he will Spend the chief of his time in Essex, as both him and Mrs. Delmont, are very partial to their villa. 
Arlington Grove is to bedisposed of, at Mrs. seymour’s request, and they intend to ramble about next Summer; but I have Some notion, they will look out for a future country residence in your neighbourhoood, as Lucy often Speaks of the situation of your house with infinite pleasure. 
Make my kindest wishes acceptable to your lively Harriet; tell her, the late Sentimental ladies poffess as great a portion of vivacity, as herself j and that 
the 
[ 231 ] 
t allegro has prevailed ever Since, the happy unions. 
Farewell! my valued friend, Remember the request Of your 
CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
L E T[ 
[ ] 
LETTER LXXVIII 
THOMAS NEWMAN, ESQ;, 
T o 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ES 
Newman Place, Henley. 
BY letters j ust arrived from India, I have received the information of Mr, dormer’s death. The melancholy particulars I will relate when we meet; but I find he was poisoned by one of ^ the black women whom he had a connexion with. She sufpexed him unfaithful to her, and in the fitof jealousy, took that diabolical method of revenge. 
I con Sign you the talk, of making his amiable wife acquainted, with what the 
world 
I 233 ] 
world will call her misfortune but what we style her release. 
Dormer has died insolvent, and she, poor woman, must be totally dependent on Colonel Morley, or Mrs. Seymour. I think she ought to preser the assistance of the former, as Lady Selby is estranged (and but too justly) from his heart, and she has a very ample allowance from her husband: : I think it very probable, that Colonel Morley will provide handsomely for Fanny, considering her the daughter of a wife he So tenderly loved. 
Burr, I confess, Charles, I could wish, you would raise this lovely woman from a state of dependence, to that of affluence. I am Sure, she has an excellent heart, a refined understanding, and a beautiful face: I have heard you Say, that she has confessed to you all her 
little 
[ 234- ] 
little errors of youth, and that the experience she had purchased would make her an excellent wife to a man she lonjed. 
We shall be in town about the middle of next week : harriet’s brother is at Bath, and we shall occupy his house until we can meet, with one to our taste. 
I perfefuy mderfiand you — and I shall insist on your being with us in Piccadilly. 
refie6l on that paragraph in my letter respedting Mrs. Dormer; and remember the Satisfaction your heart will feel, at rendering So worthy a woman happy. Observe what I tell you, if love s the only requisite to make her a good wife, you will be very happy with her. 
isou 
THE 
H I S T O R Y 
OF 
LUCY CLEVELAND. 
} 
'' f ' '. " 
\ 
\ 
•. « « 
"* 'i 
''. I 
/ 
. ri 

\ ^ * * * 
N 
V 
I 
/ 
J 
I \ 
r '. 
? ‘ 
I 
* '. 
k 
* 
« 
>► >,, 
• •. ' r' 
I 
- ' ’ : f 
> 
•v r • ' * ^ - • ' • >. * 
C - :; ■ C i 
• ' ' ^ • 
% * * 
• ^ 
N /* ^, 
% 
i I ■ 
/ 
/, *' 
* 
"' < ' '. \ 
M 
\ 
/. 
..... _, -. - ^ 
* ^ 
S’ 
t 
t 
s, 
* 
• '■• * 
\ 
S * V. 
'/ ', *, 
« ' 
• V 
'*- 
y 
•> 
\ 
• f 
( 
/ 
I 
I 
» 
y 
* .► ••* 
» ** 
•. 
« 
M 
• * 
y • ' 
N 
I 
• *. 
THE 
EXAMPLE: 
OR THE 
HISTORY 
O F 
LUCY CLEVELAND. 
B Y A 
YOUNG LADY. 
VOL. II 
LONDON: 
PRINTED FOR FIELDING AND WALKER, No. 20, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 
m*dcc.txxyili. 
•* '• .• .* N ^ :; •; v'te ' •*' 
^ •* -'• • * * is.. 1-.. *'** ^‘- 
.' _■ * ' - '.. h c'• v ^ I? ic y.. ^ ^ • ■ 
/ -: \ 
lava^fvv ncit0 te C''; '';. 
- - - V js ‘cv -- .olra : C • --.; r: ': V C •.. '■ V nsv^t l s ^-■■: ■ rv". ■". •, NC 
,; ■ - ^: ^ ■■ - ' ■ apf 
~ '.. ^ ' 1' ’ * * * •, i. *. * -. ‘' ' * L * * • 
/*” ■'■•’* * '• • '■'•^'*** •-'■* Vy.. **.'** *. ■ ' *' • - C •; 
s: N' *' •; •'* * ■' ■ - ■ -• ‘ -- .'b tv ..« '* -'- V •'?: *- r *- C * h • *• ■.-•^ * * .*; — ••.- ••; *••’: '-• 
: - •. _ ^ -- Ti. ***-• • •*- C, * *. ■^-*.* ' ' t 
A^AV ■'''. aff -- F ■/•■ fji. - •'- : ^ -'-. V C - I' 
:. -- '"F \: L a L ' 
>: ?r': : \. .'.r - ' ■-■'<■, ?•'■■•■ .'' -- Vi ^ /: ■ - ~. .dl' -- 
■alail. v L’S -. N. TAC; 
; ■ 
• *•••* “• .^. ' •■‘* - V *^*.- •-•>.. 
/ S -■.■■■: ■-■ ■: rv ■’ - "''TC' h CF ' ■ / ■■ '■ " - .■ ’ ' NY 
.•.;; /vy.' ■ L h: -: - ■■ '-■■ ■ ^fri'iir. 
*, 1v *'^' **••* *• • •-* * .* V TV *"^ -- 
'■; * **; * '\ ■* • -- T >: N' ' **; •<■* -«": *: ••• •. •: • V ^..; y *.. • v ^. 
•y h ** •'.••; ” *■ s ^ ^ ^ : .• * 
^siyia' V ’* ' C' ' •'.. *.* 
** -- .« .*•• ..'•*.*•- T ••'■** - • - *^_ • 
^ - vc ns -- -. V --,; V: : AA : : ■ ' O'. • " ■. - C - .-/. 
r tisc' vv A .T.. ' 
ie: .'AI : >.- - ' ■• t 'i -- V $-. •; C - 
-'■ '.DC _ ■; ■-■■: 
T' ' .-; -.; -. : .'■; -. ... ■.. J; ■-.- ■ ■ 
V •. - V. -. A • - • ' - c- -- ' : N •:. ** •* ** 
'•». - '.. - ' • *' ••'.^ ' V * * ■ *'* * • -- *. > fi. - ^ 
- 0. a' ^ y -- y*fv^ V '-. '. ■■ '.ha: 
cv V; * A; ' .-*.'**. .0* ** :. .' -■ * • '*• .*. • _ .■.*•*■ 
A? .a; v.fjv ^ • *' • : ' •. *, ^. : ^ ■ •**.... .y. .•. .* *v\tr.; 
ayo, yi: vc: : .y 
•*' " '». ■ ', .**’•**. Ai' ' '•• "? *'? *, o. •. 
■ .■'■■■ -■.-■.■■ ^' -■ ' ’ '■ ^-' "■. i ‘ - A'v' r d. it VI 
v's' o: A.. ^v^v.y ‘ V 
o si. ■■-' ■■ ■- ^ '■ v te yc£; .d2 ^'1 o ' ■ a''yv: .i4‘aoo 
•, .* -": i. tv.o; ..N h o ■ *.• ‘ *-•: •* * ^ ^ o. • o.. *. C 
* O .a -0 ' T' LA .'hi *■ yr.. * * • • ' *.*', * .D ' ''* i 
, V.' 
THE 
HISTORY 
O F 
LUCY CLEVELAND. 
LETTER XL 
MRS. DORMER 
T O 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
newman place, Henley. 
U R E L Y it is unnecessary to tell you, that I am happy to hear Mr, Arlington has complied with your request; and more particularly, at his not showing a relufiance at So doing. 
vol. II B I 
f 2' 1, 
f could not help being surprised at ?^; hat part'of your letter, which mentions 'our receiving a visit from Captain Hal lifax and his Lady; though it was ab surd enough, as it cannot be anything extraordinary in his being acquainted with Mr. Arlington, when they were both at Bengal at the same time. — I can Sorefee an advantage that will accrue to your Fanny from this gentleman’s mar riage. *^mr. Dormer will be convinced she supposed attachment to me, has not been of that nature to prevent his marrying another; consequently, I shall not in future put myself to the least inconvenience to avoid him : but whatever information you can give me respedting his wife, do not omit it. 
I have prepared Mrs. Newman, for my departure from hence; who would i not quit for the Sake oiyour company but when I talk of leaving her, she 
puts 
[ 3 ] 
puts Up her lip and Srowns, and Says, “cross creature! you know Delia is no company; and if you was not a felfijji wretch, you would not think of going to Essex, until Newman is here to comfort me : I ant almost destitute of it, I assure you,; and if you forsake me, I shall not only wear the willow, but tie myself up to that at the end of the garden.” She then runs to her harpsichord, and accompanies that pretty Song, So applicable to her Situation. 
The heavy hours are almoll past That part my love from me, c.” 
For he is daily expected, as a letter she received yesterday, informed her, a ship with which he Sailed in company from St. Helena, was arrived in the Downs, and that, in which he is a passenger, may be expected every hour. — As I have no doubt but your Sister will accompany B 2 you 
[ 4 ] 
you into Essex, I believe I shall, as I think it due to my lively Sricnd, remain with her until her husband arrives. — She is a worthy, agreeable creature; but she is not tny Lucy : consequently, wshen I am an hour from you that I can avoid, it is a Sacrifice of my inclinations to gratitude, or propriety. 
Sir William Selby is a very constant visitor, he has made proposals respedting Delia, to my father,, and 1 find the latter has accepted them; So that I sup pose, I shall shortly inform you of their union. — I do not think it advisable, for me to inform Colonel Morley, of the Scenes I have been witness to, between her and Sedgwick : does it not occur to you as an impropriety for me to interfere? may he not one day hear of my former attachment to Sedgwick? perhaps, from Delia herself, who may be proud to boast of havino; rivalled her 
Sister, 
[ 5 ] 
lister, and may construe my assertions to proceed from jealousy, or at best, sup pose me prejudiced against the parties; 
-- -- notwithstanding the objections I 
have recited, should you approve of my mentioning what I have observed, — I will do it. Nothing, that my Lucy ad vises, shall be unattended to. 
Write as Soon as you arrive at your country residence. 
To your unalterable 
and affectionate FANNY DORMER. 
B 3 L E T[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XLI 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
arlington grove. 
I AM Sure it will give you pleasure to hear my request was granted, and that my Sister accompanied us to this place. — The houle is large and convenient; and the garden, which Surrounds it, Laid out in a pretty taste; but the Situation is quite a fiat: in short, we are in the vale Surrounded with hills. 
■ I observed the other evening from my dressing-room window, a white house, which stands on an eminence, and appeared to command a very extensive prospedt: 
C 7 J 
prolpedl: I aficed Mr. Arlington; wha» it belonged to 
‘‘ That is a piece of information, ’®' Said he, “I cannot give you; I myself never inquired;. for as I have Spent all my time Since my arrival in England (except two months) in London, I never attempted to make any acquaintance here. — I bought this house, merely, beacause a man of my fortune would; have been thought very miihriy, or very absurd, to have but one; and I, as yyell as the rest, of mankind, cannot help paying Some little difference rp the world opinion : ip short, I purchase a country Sear, to please other people, and called it arlington groye, from the' yii77z<? motive, and likewise to avoid .the? world’s ‘ dread laugh, which Scarce, the firm philosopher can Scorn.’ — But now_)w express a fondness for the country, it will be the chief pleasure of my B, 4 lite 
[ 8 ] 
life to improve this place, unless you can fix on Some other Spot, more agreeable to your taste.’* 
You are very kind, Said I; — I think this Situation very pleasant: but what Say you to a walk to that white house? 1 quite long to See it. 
“I have no objection” ” he. Smiling, “So you do not long to See the mats who owns it, to accompanying you.” 
No — no, I replied, assuming an air of chearfulness, I leave those longings for my Sister. 
“Dearest, best of women !” Said he, 
how happy am I to See that countenance wear a Smile !” 
Why, you know, I replied, it Was your prophecy, that the country would 
“work 
I 9 ] 
“work wonders.” — We then Set out for OUT promenade., and walked about a mile in one of the most plcasant Evenings, the Summer has produced; the limes and elms, that are on each fide the avenue leading to our house, uniting their branches over our heads, formed a verdant canopy, and cast a most pleasmg shade : on either fide, the boughs rounded into a Set of regular arches, opened a view into the distant fields, and presented us with a profpect of the bending Sky; while a french horn, I suppose from Some neighbouring Seat, Sent its melodious accents. Softened by the length of their passage. — We Soon arrived at the house, theoutside of which. Speaks the elegant taste of the owner; as we w’ere then on the Summit of the hill, I was lost in extasy, and could not help exclaiming 
b5 “O 
[ 10 ] 
O vale of bllfs! O softly swelling hills! 
On which the power of cultivation lies! 
And joys to see the wonders of his toil. 
Heavens! what a goodly profpefl spreads around. 
Of hills, and dales, and woods, and lawns, and spires!” 
I then Said, taking hold of Mr. arlington’s arm, come, let us range along the Summit of this gently rising hill, and catch the laji smiles of day, before the Vv'hole face of the ground is overspread with shades; or with what one of the finest painters of nature, calls a dun obscurity— — Sister complaining she was tired, L Sat myself down by her, but Mr. Arlington immediately lifted us both up, and reproved her, jestingly, for showing So bad an example to her younger Sister; telling her, that the “grass being wet, was but a Secondary consideration with her \ as she had the hope, by Seating hersels there, loattraff Some person’s notice, and induce them to I offer 
i[ II ] 
. offer her a move, commodious Seat to Test her wearied limbs, after the insupportable fatigue of vvalking a^whole milev 
“Well, ” said my fister,. then I hope, my Scheme has Succeeded, for here is a messenger coming towards us.” 
At that instant a footman came uppo us, with his master’s corupliments, and requested the favour of our companies, 
V to take a better view of the prospedt from a room, which was purposely. erected on the top of the house.” 
As, we were walking up the aveaue, 
young gentleman met us. -- “You have given nie great pleasure” ” he,, .‘pat your apparent apprcbation of this situation, blit you rhust acqept, cf Some refreshment, ]and then oblige me \vitst your companies in my little, pbsery atpry, from y/hence^you willreceive^^a, b6 oriore 
[ 12 ] 
more adequate idea of the beauty and extent of the prospecst.” 
We readily accepted, the invitation, and Mr. Arlington, and the agreeable, hospitable young man, Soon became very Sociable: — but as the Sormer is particularly fearful of being deficient in making a return for any civility he receives, he insisted, if the latter wished to oblige him, he would dine with us the next day at the grove, “My name is Arlington, ” “and mine, ” replied the gentleman, “is Delmont.” 
There was one circumstance I observed, which appeared to me very extraordinary. When Mr. Delmont heard our name he regarded me with the greatest attention. — When we parted, he renewed his promise to dine with us the next day; but at the time we expected him, he Sent an apology, assigning 

[ 13 ] 
ing for reason that a friend was just arrived from London, but that he looked on his visit only deferred. — 
He appears Sensible and polite, and I am Sure he is very agreeable; he Seems a grave character, and in that re sped the counter part of Maria. 
I have not time at present to acquaint you with my design, but the first opportunity. Je vous en donnerai avis, 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
L E T 
r H A 
L E T T E R XLH. 
M R S. A R L I N G T O' N 
T O 
M RS. DORMER 
arlington grove. 
AS you Sent your last letter to har lay street, I have but just received it; but as you have by this time got that which I dated from this place, you will perceive I had anticipated your wishes, and wrote from the country immediately after my arrival besore I became acquainted with your request. 
1 have well considered about yojur Speaking to Colonel Morley, about Sedgwick and Delia; and the result of that consideration, is agreeing with you 
that 
[ IS ] 
that it will be most prudent to avoid it. 
aster perusing the entreaties of your lively friend, to induce you to reniain at Henley, until her husband returns, — I determined not to accept osyour company at present. Were it even possible for you to think of leaving her, these doors shall positively be shut against you, until Mr. Newman makes his appearance. -- -- After this declaration, I 
leave you to judge, whether or not, I am impatient for his arrival, 
I wish Mr. Delmont would pay his intended visit; I fancy my Sister is not destitute of wishes for another view of his agreeable countenance; but she must have patience, for to observe the proper etiquette, it is now his place to fix the day, 
I 
t ^ 
1 affure you I should be So happy ter See her advantageoussy married, and to have her for So near a neighbour, that I shall contrive for them to meet as often as possible: I am the more anxious fr them to be Sociable, or rather, to view each other with the eye of affection, as Mr. Arlington, who is an excellent phk fiogncmifiy affures me we shall find him everything that is desirable. 
But to effc(st this liking, and then improve it into love, he must have opportunities of discovering the excellent qualities of her heart. Her good sense, like her person, will improve an intimate acquaintance, but will never " strike him or any other man, on the first interview. It is therefore, I repeat, necessary Son them to be frequently together; and this was the design, I had not time to communicate in my lash 
I 
[ 17 ] 
I cannot help thinking, 1 have heard the name of Belmont mentioned in Some family wc visited, but cannot recolleist where. 
I 
Adieu! ma tres cheer femme I 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LETI 
1, 8 r 
LETTER xlim 
E N R Y B O S W E L L 
T O 
CHARLES GRLNVILLE, E 
delmont hall. 
I, INFORMED you when we Spent: the evening together the other night, of the Sortune which has been So unexpectedly left me by a distant relation on. my mother’s fide; and just as .Jack Charlton call’d in, I was going to inform you, that the money is left to me, with the proviso I take the name of seymour. I leave you. to judge whether I objected to that, or any other name, that, will procure the agreeable addition to my income of two thousand sounds a ymr, I. immediately resolved to quit a. 
profession,. 
[ 19 I 
profession,, which deprived me of one of my greatest enjoyments, the pleasures which the country affords. 
As I had received Such pressing Solicitations from Delmont, when he was with me in town, to return with him to the hall, and as my business would not admit my complying with his request; I was no Sooner informed of my acquisition of fortune, than I determined to Spend the Summer with him in Essex; at the Same time, resolving, not to give y ou an item of my intentions, lest your rhetoric should have prevailed on me to remain in the smoky metropolis. 
The very day I arrived here, now' Said I, my good, I cannot add my lamented, cousin, has left me Such an elegant Sufficiency, and consequently enabled me to quit the practice of Surgery — I am come where friendship already 
dwells. 
[ 20 ] 
dwells, in Search of “content, retirement, and rural quiet; ” and have relinquished the best concerts London affords, without regret, forthemusic of the groves; and I will hope, as a man who is still young, and was once gay, has shown such a preference for retirement. The coy quiristers that lodge within, will be prodigal of their harmony : if not, the society of my del mont will amply compensate for their deficiencies, during the Summer which 1 intend Spending with you. 
Ah! but Something I have to communicate, will, I fear, ” Said he, “again deprive me of your valued company— — I was eating some ice a few evenings ago, I thought I heard the Sound of female voices; and looking through the window, I perceived a middle aged gentleman, raising two ladies from the grass on which they 
were 
[ 21 ] 
were Seated : I remembered to have Seen the gentleman before, and supposed it might have been at Chelmsford Church, but I did not know his name, the ladies were both strangers to me. 
As they appeared to be in raptures with the prosped, and I had some little curiosity to have a nearer view of the females, (as the person of one of them appeared uncommonly elegant,) I requested the favour of their companies to view the prosped from my observatory. — They accepted my offer without any hesitation; the gentleman expressed himself extremely obliged at the few civilities that I had shown, and he so greatly overrated;; me his name was Arlington, and in fisted on my dining with him the next day. 
Good God! Said I, interrupting him, was Lucy with him? or rather 1 should 
first 
[ 22 1 
•first ash, is it the Arlington, Jhe married? 
“Have a minute’s patience, ” Said he, ^ and you shall hear all that passed. 
“He introduced the youngest of the ladies to me as his wife, the other as her sister, whom he called, Maria. — This confirmed my suspicions that they were the miss Clevelands, as I had heard you Say Maria was the name of the eldeftf^ 
But, Said I, again interrupting him, is it possible you should not know my Lucy, can any other woman resemble her.? but do not torture me with Such suspense; describethe person and dress of the youngest sister, and I will Soon inform you if it was Lucy Cleveland (I will not call her Arlington) that you have Seen. — To confess a truth, Charles, there were too many corroborating circumstances 
t 23 I 
cumstances to leave me a doubt but k was my Lucy he had Seen, but I wish ^ed to have a description of her lovely person from an impartial beholder ^ my Scheme Succeeded, and Delmont replied; — You forget, Harry, that I had nevery^fwlucy; therefore no great wonder to a man in his right fenses, that I should not know her: but to proceed to my description of the youngs est lady. She is of the middle size, exceedingly delicate, languishing blue eyes, a lovely mouth, with a most inviting pair of lips; and her neck is formed by the hand of harmony: in a word, she is more than painting or Sculpture can express, for she is animated. 
Her dress was elegantly neat, without the least approach to finery; I cannot remember any particulars of it except her hat, which was, I believe, what they call chip, and was delicately ornamented, 
[ 24 ] 
mented, instead of being fashionably loaded, with laycock ribbon, — her sister- -- - 
Said I, never mind her Sister, — by your description, it can be no other than my Lucy whom you have Seen; — but did she Speak } — did she appear cheerful? — talk to me about her, for this hour to come. 
‘‘ On my word, ’* Said he, “you are very unreasonable; you expect to be gratified in every wish, and would not permit me to Speak of her lister; who, perhaps, may have as indisputable charms in eyes, as Lucy has myours: — not that I am So far gone as to be blinded by my love, and imagine the elder sister’s fer/onal attradtions in any degree equal to the younger; indeed, every woman 1 have Seen, I think inferior in beauty to Mrs. Arlington; but 
there 
[ 25 ] 
there was a Something in Maria, which makes me wish for a Second interview, and that I had thoughts of obtaining today; for Mr. Arlington gave me a very pressing invitation to dine with him, which I promised to accept, — but now you are come, what can I do — will you choose to accompany me — 
I am half inclined. Said I, then recol leding myself, — no, Delmont — not for the world — the Scene at the card table, ' is still recent in my memory, that interview being accidental I am Sure she has forgiven; but was I to go preme ditatedly into her presence, I might forfeit her good opinion, on which I Set So inestimable a value: — Send a card, and Say, a friend having just arrived from town, obliges you to defer your visit, and we will afterwards talk the matter over, how you shall manage in future, 
vol. II C He 
[ 26 ] 
He immediately Sent a message to that purport: and Lucy wrote a card, as from Mr. Arlington, “that they hoped his visit would not be long deferred, and desired his friend might not prevent his pleasuring them with Us company, as they should be happy if he would introduce him at the Grove.’* 
It was her writing, and the well known hand did not escape my particular notice you have Seen her, and felt the power of her charms, consequently, will not ridicule me, when I confess, the identical card, has been my nearest companion; — since she hangs about my heart, why should not her name be there They wish him to introduce his friend at the Grove !” — Ah, Charles 1 how little do they fusped that friend is i 
After 
I ^7 1 
After this behaviour, Delmont cannot, consistent with good breeding, decline visiting at Mr. arlington’s; — nor, would I wish him, — forby his intimacy there I shall gain Srequent intelligence of my dear lovely girl! 
There is a pretty house to be Sold, within sight of this, which I have determined to purchase; for if I remain with Delmont, I shall be liable to meet that angel of a woman! who, — but for my fatal procrastination, would now have been my wife. 
As I have changed my name I hope to remain in this village, totally linsuf pedted. She! the idol of my heart! can never suppose, should she hear Mr. Seymmr 'indis, her neighbour, that he is that Boswell whom she unfortunately loved. 
C a I called 
[ 28 ] 
I called at Mr. cleveland’s the evening before I left town, but as he was ' from home, — I request you will go 
there. -- -- Tell him, how very grateful 
I am, for all favours received; tell him of my acquisition of fortune, which enables me to relinquish bufiness; but at the Same time assure him from me, that should he be unfortunate enough to require any chirurgical assistance, I shall desire him to command my Services. You will request him not to mention my having quitted London, or my having changed my name, to his own f^ mily or to Mr. Arlington. 
Tell the much respeded Cleveland, that as my folly and delay, lost me the possession of his invaluable daughter, that my fortune is no addition to my felicity, as Jhe cannot partake of it. In short, say everything, or anything, your friendly heart will Suggest to you, 
that 
[ 29 ] 
that will preserve me in his esteem; and tell him the resolution I have sorm ed to live in retirement, until Some happier Sat awaits me; and you may likewise tell him, that though I adore Lucy, I respest her character too highly to where. 
Delmont waits for me to take a ride with him, — I agree — any way but towards Arlington Grove. 
Farewell! — write Soon and frequent, to your Smeerest friend, and much favoured 
HENRY SEYMOUR: 
i C 3 LET[ 
[ J 
LETTER XLIV 
MRS. DORMER T 0 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
newman place, Henley. 
I WAS extremely happy, Lucy, to Tee your letter dated from the Country; and cannot express how much I am obliged, by your devoting So much of your time to me: but as you know I must be interested in everything which concerns you, or any part of your family, you cannot be too minute in your details. 
I am 
[ 3* I 
L am rather surprised you should noc recollect where you have heard of Mr. Delmont; but as my memory has oh this occasion been more tenacious than yours, I think it but kind to tell )rou that, from what I have learned from the conversation of Mr. boswell, and Mr. Grenville, Delmont is the intimate friend and confident of the former, -- -- You are very unfortunate, my love, in being continually thrown in the way of this man, or his most intimate connedions: — but do not alarm yourself with the apprehension of feeing him; his profession will confine him too much to the metropolis, to permit him to visit his friend for any long time : and should you hear of any gentleman being, with Mr. Delmont, it is but avoiding his house for a short time, and declining, inviting him. to yours. 
G idelia^ 
[ 32 ] 
Delia tells me, she is to become Lady Selby, next tuesdav; and I never hear her mention the name of Sedgwick. — I cannot help Saying she is by much too fortunate, to have So near a prospedl of an union with such a man as Selby, who wouldbe a much fitter husband for my Lucy, than for Delia Morley. 
My father is impatient to go to Bath, and only waits to resign the troublesome charge he has long had in Delia, to a man, who I wish she may be worthy of. 
Remember me to Mr. Arlington, and your Sister, apropos. — I think your Scheme to get her a Bon Marie a very excellent one; and she has my hearty wishes for its success— — have rrot time to Say more at present, than, that after the embargo you have laid, I should be V a great Simpleton to attempt to visit you until Newman arrives, and to infill 
on 
[ 33 I 
on your believing an uncontrovert able fast., which is, that you are most heartily and Sincerely beloved. 
By 
FANNY DORMER. Cj LET. 
C 34 1 
LETTER XLV 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O 
MRS. DORMER; 
S Arlington grove. 
M R. Delmont visited us yesterday, and unless I am greatly mistaken, in tirely deprived my Sister of her heart. I approve her choice, as his person is extremely agreeable, and he appears sensible and well-bred. I find, he is very partial to the country, and that we are likely to have him for a neighbour, nine months out of the twelve; he is likewise fond of cards; I will therefore leave you to determine, whether 
r 35 ] 
there Mr. Arlington is not fond oi hisi company.. 
I am inquired for, adieuffor the present.. 
(in C 0 n t I n u a t i o n, ).: 
They wanted me to make one at the card table; — Such a fine evening, I; perfectly longed Sora walk, but was; determined to comply with Mr. arlington’s wishes. Delmont called in, to tempt us to accompany him in a ramble; and on my ftfter urging Mr. Arlington to walk, Delmont immediately expressed his astonishment, at any per son presering to gaze on painted paper,, to the fine green verdure which exhibited itself now in every field. — Well, ” ' Said Mr. Arlihgton, “follow your own; inclinations, but excuse me — when! we Sound him determined on stay c 6 ing. 
[ 36 1 
ing at home, we immediately Seated ourselves round the card table, upon which he appeared good-humoured, declaring, “we were a most docile Set of beings.” ' 
I think, I can observe Some particular attentions from Delmont to Maria : it is by no means impossible he may be pleased with her; she is agreeable in her person, though not handsome, and deserves a very good husband: : — hirri I do think she would find one. Mr. Arlington is o fond of his company, that he knows not how to part with him when night comes. 
I have this moment received your letter, my memory was treacherous indeed — I now perfectly recolledv, who mentioned So frequently the name of Delmont. — Fanny! notwithstanding all my precautions, you See how my fate pursues me. His friend, his confident. 
— You 
[ 37 ] 
— You may depend this Delmont is well acquainted then, with your poor lucy’s heart; — It was that knowledge, which occasioned his eyes to view me with So particular attention the first time we piet, aster he heard my name. — How astonishing, that my memory should be less tenacious than yours, on such an occasion! — perhaps, the very friend we Solicited him to introduce, was boswell! — Yet would he have avoided me I — certainly : — for he has hitherto, given the greatest proofs of self-denial and prudence, in his conduct towards 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET 
p 38 Jl 
LETTER. XLVI 
N 
M R S. A R L r N G T O N 
T O 
M. R S. D OR M E R. 
arllngton grore. mr’. Arlington has just received a letter from Captain Hallifax, wherein he tells him, “that his wife intends paying a visit to her relations in this part of the country; but as they have not accommodation for him, he shall make free with a bed at our house, during her stay with them.” — I think it very extraordinary, his assigning the deficiency of accommodation with her friends, as. the cause of inviting himself here : in the first place, where a family can receive the wife, I cannot conceive a. 
difficulty 
[ 39 I 
difficulty in entertaining the husband. besides, he formerly Said,, he did not choose to keep up an intimacy with her relations,, whom he suspeded he should blush to own : and in this letter, there appears no objection to accompanying:; her but the want of accommodation at the house she is going to. — I cannot re -- concile Such glaring absurdities; he certainly tells many falsehoods,. and, by unfortunately having a bad memory, sometimes betrays himself. — I affure you, I am not in the least concerned to be deprived of Mrs. H alii fax; for I am So ungratefui as to have an aversion to every person who “loves me exceed -- inglyp after a very few hours acquaintance. 
Captain Hallifax is rather handsome,. has a pleasing add refs, and though I believe he is not a very wise man, he has sense enough to prevent his folly appearing 
[ 40, 1 
appearing very conspicuous: : to her, I consess, my penetration cannot at present see into her character; but Mr. Arlington infists, he is a dupe to her artifice. 
We are going to Spend the day at. Delmont hall: there is no friend on a visit there, So I may go very Safely. 
Adieu, my best loved friend. 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LD T[ 
[ 1 
LETTER XLVIL 
MRS. ARLINGTON T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
(IN CONTINUATIO N.). 
arlington grove. 
WE are just returned, and I cannot retire to my bedroom, without telling you we have passed a very agreeable day : and of one circumstance which happened, which I cannot account for, and as women are naturally curious, I consess it has ingroffed my thoughts ever Since. 
After tea, a walk in the garden was pfoposed. It was a glorious evening, 
the 
[ 42 I 
the Sun Set with uncommon magnificence, and Soon after the moon rose in the opposite quarter, and by her fainter rays, gave new beauties to a situation, to which all description is inadequate. 
after^we had walked a short time, delmonc proposed our going in the field, at the bottom of the garden. “They are milking the cows, ’* Said he, “and we shall have a Syllabub ift perfediond* 
When we came there, we found feme garden chairs placed ready for our accornmodation, and on one of them, lay a german flute,. — As it was on the very chair which was left for me, I put the flute on my lap, which del mont perceiving, he offered to take it from me: No, Said I, unless you will promise to draw Some tones from it, it may as well be here. He assured me; 
he[ 
[ I 
he could not play. To whom theft does it belong? Said I, “to a friend of mine, ’* he replied, who left me a few days Since.’* 
his was what I wanted to leaned, Fanny, for I knew it was the r^ry flute, I had So often Seen, in our parlour, and which my father, had frequently dcsired boswell to amuse us girls with. 
My Sister and Mr. Arlington, was gone back to the house in Search of a favourite greyhound; and Delmont invited me into a summerhouse, which commanded a very piduresque view. — I had the flute still in my hand, and had just put it to my mouth, as if I intended to blow it, when I heard a voice (which, if ever I heard his, I think was boswell’s) exclaim, Fool that I was! 
'— It is too much !.” -- -1 immediately 
asked Delmont from whence the voice I proceeded. 
t 44 ] 
proceeded; he assured me he did not know, and looked as much astonished as myself. — There was a Small housein view, and I insisted for Some time, that it must have come from thence; but Mr. Delmont Said, it could not be, that the house I mentioned belonged to a Mr. Seymour, and that it was impossible a voice could be heard distinduy from Such a distance. My flurry, at what I thought a well known Sound, had prevented my recolledting how impossible it was to hear from thence. 
We partook plentifully of the Syllabub; but I was foolish enough to be out of Spirits the rest of the evening : I expected Delmont would mention the circumstance (which had filled us both with So much astonishment) every moment; — but he did not, and I had not resolution to Speak of it: So thoroughly 
am 
[' 45 1 
am I convinced that it was boswell who rnade the exclamation that So much disconcerted 
Your 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
L E TT 
46 ] 
LETTER XLVIII 
MRS. DORMER 
T O 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
newman place, Henley. 
DELIA is married — and in the title of Lady Selby, appears to have attained the extent of her wishes; as to the man., amiable as he is, I do not believe she cares a pinch of Snuff for him. 
My father Set out for Bath a few days after she became mistress of that elegant villa, which Sir William has So lately purchased, and which you So much admired. 
Though 
[ 47 ] 
Though my father is a very worthy and sensible man, there is a referee in his manner, which prevents one ever being Sociable with him; as to Delia, she has ever appeared difgujiing in our eyes; consequently, we do not regret the loss of either of their companies : but the absence of Sir William Selby, is, I affure you, to be regretted; and his time, is at present, too much ingroffed by his bride, to admit of our receiving many visits fromshim. 
A letter I have just received from the India House, informs me, Mr. Dormer is well, or to Speak with greater propriety, was So when he wrote. He tells me he has Some thoughts of coming to England, but is not yet abfglutely determined; he writes in a very affedlion ate style, and laments his long absence from his sweet little womanp these are his words. — Why did he send me to 
England, 
[ 48 ] 
England, if my absence was to be lamented — but men are great inconjijien des. -- -- -- 1 had a letter by the Same conveyance, 
from my Sister, who tells me I have no rivals, but the black ladies, and that Dormer has quite a Seraglio of them. 
But this intelligence, Lucy, is not no'uel to me, for he would frequently Substitute one of them in my place when I had offended him; and if ever I complained of Such an indignity, he would laugh and tell me. If I found “variety charming, why should not 
.?” ^but she assures me, that all his Suspicions of my infidelity, are entirely dissipated, and that he Speaks of me at all limes with the greatest tenderness. 
He has Sent me a miniature, done from a painting of him, by Kettle, but I do not think it a good likeness. I 
am 
[ 49 ] 
am to Set for mine, and Send it to him by the next ships, and yet he talks of coming to England, So I suppose, my pi6tiire is to give him the meeting: but I observed before that men were incon ftjient beings. 
I am engaged at Lady selby’s this evening, which prevents my conversing with you more at present. 
Would you believe it she has Sent the carriage for me, which do you think was the motive to accommodate me or honour me with a ride in her new vis a vis, and give her Servant an opportunity of announcing Lady selby^s carriage waits.” Perhaps, Lucy, I may be too ill natured; but I confess, I believe I may thank vanity for this piece of civility: — one good thing, I shall not be long teased with her company, for I will venture to say, when the play vol. II D houses 
[ JO } 
'houses are open, Henley nor Selhy will not have Sufficient attractions to keep her from London: — bless me, 1 had forgot her ladyship’s carriage — it is your fault; when I begin to write to you, I never know when to finish. — 
Adieu! 
FANNY DORMER. 
L E T. 
[ 
LETTER XLIX 
MRS. DORMER 
T O 
MRS. ARLINGTON, 
newman place, Henley. 
I W A S in Such haste when I wrote my last letter, I forgot to mention anything respeding the surprise you met with in the summerhouse— — think it was a point of delicacy in Delmont to be Silent; for, as I should think you could not be deceived in the voice, you may depend he knew^i?a was viftlle to Bofwelli though he contrived to be in viftlle to you, 
I believed, and hoped, he was in lon 'dofti but this circumstance almost con d 2 vinces 
[ 52 1 
vinces me, he is in your neighbourhood. If So — where is his prudence? 
Sir William gave me a very friendly and polite reception at his house; but a tete-a-tete which I had with her ladyship, will not Surprise you, but will Serve to confirm those prejudices we have long entertained. 
On retiring to her dressing-room to show me a number of very tasty and elegant lijcus^ which Sir William had purchased for her, 
“Would you believe, ” Said she, “Sir William and I, have had 2^ matrimonial quarrel already.” 
How is it possible, Said I, to have a difference with a man who appears to ‘ have So amiable a disposstion? — I fancy 

[ s3 ] 
cy you expect too much., or he could never Sail short of your expectations. 
Not 1, indeed, she replied; I only desired ‘‘ to go to London, instead of staying in this place; but he has Such, a vast notion of domefiic happiness, of which 1 have not the least idea.’* 
Why, Said I, I must confess, Delia, your disposition appears to me So much the reverse of his, that I am astonished he should ever marry you. 
“O, ” she replied, “I played my cards very cunningly, to Secure the title of Lady Selby., and to mortify Some other people who shall be nameless I sup pose, she alluded to the duke of H — and the forsaken Sedgwick. “1 duped Sir William to Such a degree, that he at last believed me as fond of gloomy groves, dashing cascades, and crystal D 3 streams, 
[ 54 ] 
streams, as his foolish Self; and he married me to make him llejfed in retire merit. — Ha! ha! ha! I can hardly proceed for laughing, Fanny; how any man that is not an idiot, could ever fuppose, that I, with my person, and lively temper, would shut myself up at Henley, for only him to gaze on me !- — what is the admiration of one man — a husband too 1 would be adored by all the world, — and So would you and your •demure Lucy, and every woman, but you want my generosity to make you own it. — No, no; lam determined to go to London, and as I shall not be there long, without a Cicijbeo^ I will permit Sir William, whom you allow to be a handsome fellow, to bejycwrj, — provided, you can leave the shady groves, and by accompanying me, learn how to live. 
Upon 
C s5 
Upon Sir william’s tapping at the room^door, she put an end to the con -- versation, which was a piece of prudence I should not have given her ere dit for. 
As Mrs. Newman waits for me to accompany her to a neighbour’s, where we are engaged to dine,, I must leave you, to make your own comments on the conduct of my pretty fajhionabk sister. 
Farewell! — 4 think it an age since' you wrote 
To your devoted 
FANNT DORMER;; 
D 4, L E Tf 
[ s6 1 
LETTER L 
MRS. ARLINGTON T d 
MRS. DORMER. 
arlington grove. 
CAPTAIN Hallifax came here yesterday; he Says, he expects his wise to make this her way horr^e, and call for him in a few weeks. 
I can perceive, Mr. Arlington thinks his conduct very unaccountable, but he does not always choose to communicats his sentiments, even to me, 
I have just had the inexpressible satisfaction, to receive a letter from my 
father. 
C 57 ] 
father. None but them who have exi perienced Similar indulgencies, can formi a just idea of. my feelings, at the pros -- pet of once more enjoying his resped ed and beloved Society : he tells trie, he has in a great measure, got the better of: his aversion to travelling; insomuch,, that he should certainly venture thirty miles from London, Sooner than put up with the loss of our Society any longer.. 
I’ wish he was come; he knows every thought of my heart,, and will make a. thousand different excuses for his poor girl, when he observes me looking more than commonly Serious. Nay,. I can assume courage to request him, to inquire, if Mr. boswell.is in the village though I almost think it impossible, if it is.. So, that it could remain a Secret. — The village is Small, and there is but. one gentleman (which is Mr. Seymour), D 5 who 
[ 58 ] 
who is not personally known to Mr. Arlington; though we do not visit more than two families besides Delmont. 
I am already displeased with the behaviour of Captain Hallifax; he never treats me with that respedl in Mr. arlington’s absence, as he does in his presence : he is taking every possible opportunity to romp; merely, 1 can See, as an excuse for kissing me. — If I Speak to him of his wife, and express a concern (which politeness obliges me to as sume) at being deprived of her company; he makes me no other reply, than “people of Lon have feparatepur fuitsv -- -- For my part, I am So unacquainted 
with fashionable life, that I declare I do not understand him. 
Mr Arlington is just returned from. a ride, in which Delmont accompanied him. 
He 
[ 59 ] 
He complains of a great fickness at his stomach. I shall advise him to lie down.; 
He has had very little steep, and com? plains of a violent pain in his head, and one of his legs, which I think appears ^ to be Swelling. I have Sent to chelms fordtor Doctor L -- -- - 
Doctor L — — has pronounced it the gout; he Says, there is no fear but he will do very well, if he can but keep it out of his stomach : — but he has Since: had an attack there, and has Suffered, by, his own account, excruciating pain. 
D 6 I have. 
[ 6o ] 
I have not lest him Since he was taken ill, for which attention, though my duty, he is very thanksul. I expedb my father tomorrow;; — is very unfortunate, his first visit should be at a time we are all So melancholy. — I must get my Sister, and Delmont, to show him the many beauties in this part of the country : I am Sure he will not like the company of Captain Hallifax; and I will devote all my time to Mr. Arlington, 
Ah, Fanny! why did I ever deceive him \ yet, as I cannot believe by his conduct he is acquainted with it, he is not injured. 
** He that is robb’d, not wanting what Is ftol’n; let him not know’t, and he’s not robb’d at all, ’* 
^ I hope 
[ 6i ] 
I hope my next will be the messenger of Some alteration for the better, in the esteemed husband. 
Of your 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET[ 
[ ]. 
LETTER LI 
MRS. A R L I'NG T O NT 
O 
MRS. DORMER. 
arhngton grove. 
M Y dearest Satster is arrived, and, thank God, in perfect health *, but Mr.. Arlington has had another very violent attack in his stomach: he is a little better, but So much altered by the excels of pain, that you would Scarce knovy him. He Seems alarmed at the complaint Sailing there, but 1 Sincerely hope his Sears are occasioned by the depressure of his Spirits. The doctor as sures me is likely to recover, and there are many instances of people being very 
long[ 
[ ] 
long lived, who are troubled with the gout. 
When my Sathercame into the room, 
while doctor L -- -- -- was present, Mr. 
Arlington Said, “you are just come in time, my friend Cleveland, to receive my instrudtions; I made a wi Some time Since, and I now request you to accept the foie eaecutorfhipf' 
My father Said he was ready to oblige him, for that being prepared for death was very proper in every sense of the word; especially as that preparation did not hasten our exit. 
“Certainly not, ” Said he, “but as this complaint will most likely one day put a period to my life, I am rather alarmed Since it has fell into my stomach, lest that day may be nearly approaching, 
“I thank 
[ 64 ] 
“I thank God I do not Seel terrors Similar to those persons, who, in the fear of dying. Suffer worse than death;. I look forward to it, as a release from corporeal pain, and have not, I believe,, a greater share of apprehension, than what is implanted in our natures, from our ignorance of a future state; but when a moment’s refiedion tells me, that death will Separate me from my Lucy! — my wife! — your lovely ancf amiable daughters iris then my boasted fortitude forsakes me.” 
I vbas (as it is but natural to fuppose) So much affected by this conversation, that bursting into a stood of tears, apd throwing myself on the bed where he lay; O, Said I, thou best and most attentive of husbands! do not talk of leaving me, when I am but just become acquainted with your worth : — then turning to my father, you know not, 
dear 
I 65 ] 
dear Sir, the many happy and rational hours 1 have Spent; there is but one— — I was going to consess the only circumstance in which I ever deceived my husband; when my father, guejfing., I imagine, what I was going to Say, interrupted me with a very fig look, Saying, “misjudging girl! why torment yoiirsels with unnecessary fears? there is no reason to despair j with the blessing of Providence, but Mr. Arlington will recover, and that there are many happy years in store for you 
I was sh exhausted by my own reflections, and the Scene that was before me, that it was with great difficulty they kept me from fainting. 
My father insisted I should exert myself, and endeavour to take a short walk, if it was only in the garden; as, 
he 
I 6^ ] 
he Said, the confinement would injure jny health, and prevent my paying a proper attendance on my husband“ 
“” Said Mr. Arlington, “be persuaded, I am better, and your Sister will give me my. medicine, as you do not chuse to trust the nurse, you know I have experienced her care on a former occasion (alluding to the time he sprairv^p d his. ankle),. 
We had not been long in the garden besore Hallifax followed us. I had yust received my father’s forgiveness unsollicited, for my rashness, in going to divulge my only Secret to my husband, and by way of recruiting his Spirits (which were Somewhat agitated),, I was going to acquaint him with my, observations on delmont’s behaviour to my Sister, as I knew the prosped of Such a Settlement for her, would give 
him 
E 67 J 
him infinite joy. To deprive him of a. pleasurable sensation, though but for a moment, almost induced me to be rude to Hallifax, who had So unseasonably interrupted me. 
After bowing to my father, I am come to tell you, ” Said he, addressing, himself to me, “that I am not to enjoy the company of my pretty wife (now you will be pleased, as L am praising her) for Some weeks longer, as she is going Somewhere in the country, I have forgot the name of the place, to visita new married pair, but she tells me the lady is So very handsome, she win not trust me to accompany her; and as I have no inclination to go to London, until the feason is more advanced, you will most likely be troubled with my company, unless I must turn out because Mr. Arlington is an invalid 
I told 
[ 68 I 
I told him, his own good sense would point out to him when the absence of a mere acquaintance would be acceptahvt that my mind was at present in Such an agitated state, I could not attend to ceremonious forms. 
“I understand you, ” Said he, “you want me to quk your house; I consess you have adopted a very dvil mode of saying Some rude things.” 
My father was provoked, and was going to notice his Speech; but as I apprehended Some disagreeable altercation would ensue; I pulled him by the Heeve, and he very considerately on my account, checked his resentment, and only Said, “■ I suppose Captain halli fax is in jest; he could not mean to affront you, as that would be taking' a paltroon’s advantage of your being a woman. 
He 
[ h 3 
He made no reply, but taking his leave, wished Mr. Arlington better, and ordered his horse to be got ready. When he was gone, I related many particulars of his behaviour: my father thought I had afled right in expressing myself as I did to him. contemptp 
Said he, “and avoiding his company, is the best resentment a modeji woman .can show to a man, who has treated her with dijrefpefia 
On our return in the house, my father went up to Mr. Arlington, and I fuspedl: had related to him what I told him about hallisax, for when I went into the room, I heard the latter say, she behaved with her usual prudence); let me never See his face here again, for” — when he perceived me in the room, he stopped. Thank God, he has not had any violent return of the pain, and 1 begin to have hopes my next 
letter 
t 70 ] 
better will convey a still better account of his health. — I want rest — I am quite wearied out for want of steep at nights. 
** O sleep, O gentle sleep. nature’s soft nurse!! 
have I frighted thee, that thou no more Wilt weigh my eyelids down, 
And deep my senses in forgetfulness. 
Farewell, my Fanny? — I am Sure you kindly commiserate your unhappy friend, 
TUCY ARLINGTON. 
L E T[ 
[ 3 
TETTER Lll; 
M I S S CLEVELAND o 
M ^ S. DOR M E R. 
arlington grove. 
THE disagreeable talk of commu 'jiicating the most melancholy event I have ever been witness to, is reserved for me *you are, by these few lines, no doubt, prepared to hear that Mr. Arlington is na more. He was Seized yes terday with So violent an attack in hia stomach and head, that nature was soon exhausted, and he died in a very few hours. 
Such 
I 72 3 
Such a Scene! my dear Mrs. Dormer! is not to be described in any manner, that can give you a juji idea of it. — Our poor fiistreffed Lucy never left his bedside. Between the intervals of his pain, he caught hold of her hand, which he clasped with Such violence, that it was with difficulty we loosed it. He was Sensible, but speechless, until within an hour of his death; and in his delirium, he flung himself in her arms, and there expired. 
She was not, until my father Spoke, to be prevailed on to quit the body; but reproached^herself for the indifference she had felt for him, until very lately, in terms which affected every person present. 
She fainted twice on our attempting to remove her into another chamber. She had no sleep during the whole 
night 
t 73 ] 
night, but appeared to lay in a state osstu pefadion. She has a violent Sever, and Ido not myself believe perfectly in her senses, for she has not mentioned your name, nor attempted to write to you. 
Her concern for his death is reai and however faulty she may appear to the eye of an unfeeling and misjudging world, a want of conjugal ziicntions could never be alleged against her. 
Though we know she did not love Mr. Arlington — yet her’s is Such a tender, delicate frame, it cannot well Support any of the boisterous waves of fortune : and I terrify myself lest it should prove fatal to her. 
I am now writing at the foot of her bed. She calls me, - — Adieu for the present. 
vol. II E (i If 
[ 74 ] 
(in continuation.) 
I had not opportunity to write yes terday, but I have deserred concluding my letter to a very good purpose, as I am enabled to insorm you, our dearest Lucy is infinitely better : her Sever is abated, and I have hopes, that she has not a complaint lest, but what the lenient hand of time will remove. 
It is cruel to invite you to the house of mourning; but you know what consolation your Society would afford to Lucy, and you cannot, I hope, doubt, but it will be an infinite pleasure, 
To 
MARIA CLEVELAND. 
LETI 
75 ] 
LETTER LIII ^ 
MRS. ARLINGTON 
T O, 
MRS. D O R M E R. 
ariitrgton grc>ve. 
YOU are by this time acquainted with my loss. I do not make use of the word 1 have rendered emphatic, merely, as an essential in the firji letter you receive from a widow; but to convey to you the true state of my Seelings, on the death of Mr. Arlington. — Though he was an object of indifference to me at the time I married him, and though I never loved him, — yet his merit, his regard for me, and unabated attentions, produced the effect I wished for and expected : — A tender attachment; duty D 2 and 
i 
[ 76 ] 
and honour were the bonds by which I was united to him. 
I take heaven to witness! there is but one consolation I can derive, from being deprived of him, So shortly aster our union : he died ignorant of the wrong done to him by a parent and a child, in giving him a divided heart. 
My tender, my indulgent father, shows Such an anxiety at the depreffurg of my Spirits, and Seems So Sully per suaded, that varying the Scene, may, io Some degree, dispel the gloom, which at present, in Spite of my efforts, hovers over my mind, that he has obtained my promise, to quit this melancholy mansion; and accept a residence with him, until affairs are Sufficiently fettled, to enable me to .determine in what place, and manner I shall live in future. — I shall not, therefore, souicit your much 
loved 
I 77 J 
loved company, even admitting Mr. Newman is arrived, until I have a home to osier you : we shall then, I hope, be as ignorant of a Separate interest, as of the regrets which have been occasioned by absence. 
I am Sorry to tell you, that Mr. dormer’s circumstances are greatly embarrassed, and that the immense Sums he is indebted to the Black Merchants, is the reason ashgned for his not quitting India. We had this intelligence from undoubted authority, and I fear it will be but too strongly confirmed, when Mr. Newman arrives. — Indeed, it is proper to make you acquainted with one circumstance, which from motives of delicacy my father has kept you ignorant of — There has been no remittances either last season or this; but my father being in hopes it was not owing to Mr. dormer’s inalility^ but perhaps, E 3 his 
[ 78 ] 
his negligence, ^ in waiting until the'com pany*s treasury ^zsjhut., before he applied to remit bills; preserved the expectations of receiving money by every ship that was expected in, and was unwilling to tell you, that you stave been entirely dependant on him. He is ig itorant of my mentioning this circumstance to you; though I shall not Suffer him to remain So — but as I know it has been a great inconvenience to hin?, I shall expect, and insist in future, that all your drafts are Sent to me for acceptance. I will not admit of any objections — you cannot make one, but what must be the effecl of false pride. 
My father has just folficited Mr. def mont to accompany us to town; — he Seemed to wait for my jijiers expressing a wish for him to accept the invitation; for she no Sooner Spoke to thaepurpose, than Delmont bowing respeclfully to 
mj 
[ 79 ] 
niy father. Said, he could not resist sh great a happiness as the Society of him and his family; he Spoke in general terms, but I fancy, thought of of the family with 'particular pleasure. He is extremely amiable, and I only wish he was my brother: — but I at Some times fear, notwithstanding the partiality he appears to feel for my Sister, that the inference I have drawn from his condudf, is more the effect of my wishes than my expedlations; and that my hopes are destitute of a real foundation. Why should he conceal his affection, if he really feels an inclination for her.? and I do not believe he has ever avowed a regard; but of this I cannot be certain, for as she never mentions him when we are alone, I think there would be an indelicacy, in my first starting the subjed, especially, as I believe, she has a very great attachment to him : a circumstance the other evening. Served to con e 4 firm 
[ 2o ] 
firm tnf former suspicions of her hope fcss love, which I have not Spirits at present to recite : — my indisposition has left me So weak, that writing for any length of time fatigues my mind, which is in a confused and depressed state 
Adieu, thou amiable repository!! all the afflidtiona of 
WCY ARLINGTON. 
L E T[ 
[ ] 
•V 
LETTER LIV 
HENRY SEYMOUR, E S 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, E S 
sedley green. 
MR. Arlington is dead — gone, we are to hope, to receive the reward of his many virtues. 
I acquainted you in my two last letters with the rapid progress of his disorder. — As a fellow-creature., I was shocked at the account of his Sufferings, but as an interested individual, I received the account of his release with pleasure : every man in my Situation must E 5 have. 
* Which letters do not appear. 
[ 82 ] 
have Selt as I did; though very few would have ingenuousness enough to acknowledge they were rejoiced ta hear of his death. — Did I not in a former letter, build all my hopes upon the probability of being the Survivor } — have I not a prospedt of happiness expanding itself to my view? — will procragination. do you think again impede my union with th? most lovely and beloved of her Sex — 
Yet, do not infer from this, that I mean to act with a precipitation that must wound her delicacy : No — I shall not this week, or next, personally declare those sentiments she already knows. 
'1 must follow her to London, and as her 
father has taken her to his own house, I shall have frequent opportunities of being in her company; and I will endeavour to defer an avowal of that passion I have So long felt for her, until 
her 
[ 83. ] 
her eyes shall express her wonder at my, delay. 
I have every reason to think her war -- thy Sather will prove a powersul advocate for me: Not but I have vanity enough to believe, I am beloved; but may she not have her Scruples respeding., Nancy Collins? she thinks, I educed. her, and lucy’s nica Sentiments of ho nottr., will induce her to promote my marrying Nancy \ though she, at the very time, wishesi me her husband— — must, therefore, be my first care, to establish that friendship and good opinion which her father still honours me with: be knows I was not. the firstthat received nancy’s favours, and it was that which made, him insist on her not being introduced in his family, though I at that time acknowledged her as my wife. — 1 have, never been able to learn,, with whom she went off; and I snall / E 6, ^ not: 
r j 
not now make any inquiries, as I can then declare with the stri(51est truth, my total ignorance osher, and her situation, should the worthy Cleveland make any inquiries. 
I have been So taken up with my own affairs, and my mind So ingroffed with the happy prospexsts that await me, that I Sorgot to mention a circumstance which is of Some consequence to my friend Delmont. — He has found attractions in miss Cleveland, Sufficient to determine him to apply to her father for his consent to their union. 
I advised him to delay his proposals for a short time, as I thought he was ignorant of her great deficiency in fortune; and I knew him a man of too extravagant a disposition, for it to be prudent in him to marry a woman without fme money. 
But 
[ 8y r 
But you may as well talk to the winds, as to a; man in love. “What was Sortune in competition to the woman one loved O, Said I, votre ■par dome — you are perse6uy right, with the woman one loves, we need no other food : a thatched cot will appear arv elegant mansion, and an higler’s cart,, will have more charms than a vis a vis^, without a Maria Cleveland. 
“Be not So prpfuse of your rallery, ’* Said he; “it ill becomes the sighing, doting Seymour, to ‘jest at Scars, when he has felt a wound.’ — It is true 1 love miss Cleveland, and likevvise think myself beloved by her. It is true my fortune is impaired, but I have enough left to make us both happy.” 
Mr. Cleveland gave him a very press fing invitation to accompany them to their townhouse; and I suppose, after 
what 
[ 86 I 
what I have related, it is almost iin neceffary to tell you, that he gladly ao: cep ted it. 
I shall go‘ to town in a few days, and shall then want no addition to my hap piness, but the company of my valued Grenville. — You had better be with me for your own Sake, as 1 shall otherwise weary your eyes with the perusal of the volumes you will receive, 
Eroms 
HENRY SEYMOUR,. 
LET[ 
[ I 
LETTER LT. 
MRS. D O R M E R T o 
M R S. A R L I N G T G N.. 
ncwman place, Henley., 
EVERY pershn must kment the loss: of an amiable man, a Sincere friend, and rational companion: No wonder then my Lucy has felt So poignantly for that of Mr. Arlington; whose worth shone So confpicuoussy in his whole conduct towards her: but I am not capable of writing an elogium to his memory; and equally So in disguifing the real feelings of my heart. However indelicate you may think me, I cannot, indeed, Lucy, suppress the pleasurable scnsations that will arise, at the 
happy 
E 88 ] 
happy prospeds that are not only in. view, but in your reach. 
I am truly concerned your father should have experienced an inconvenience by assisting me; kind and generous man! how few like him would have injured vmf&lf to Serve the wise of his friend? promises and professions do not cost anything, — them we are never at a loss for — but Such areal a6lof disinterested friendship as I have received from your father, is not, I fear, to be met With out of his family, and the whole world in purchase for Such friends would be gain! 
“think’ft thou the theme intoxicates my song?? I too warm ?■ — Too warm I cannot be. 
I lov’d him much j but nol love him more a 
I am as ignorant of Mr. dormer’s cirr cumstances as a stranger, for it is a fub 
jecst 
t 89 J 
jedl he never touches on in any of his letters. 
You tell me with your accustotned kindncss we shall have “no Separate interest.” How is it possible we should, are we not one? — but to adopt your style. — 1 shall not draw on you for acceptance, until I know what cash is at your banker’s: — but to be serious— — I find a deficiency, Lucy, I shall apply to my father. I want nothing more from you, your friend/hip is Sufficient — and let them who have a juster claim, share your fortune. 
Lady Selby went to London last week; whether her entreaties or her menaces prevailed, I do not know : but she is 'gone, at which I heartily rejoice. Nothing is more irksome, than being, obliged to appear pleased with a per son, whose manners and principles, 
you 
I 90 1 
you detest: yet, the many kindnesses I have received from her father, induced me, from motives of gratitude, to treat her with more than civility. Indeed, a contrary conduct would offend him, for he does not Sec her with the eyes we do; Sir William has taken a house in port man Square; she has by all accounts, acquired a Splended fortune, and an amiable man. — May she descrve them— — Surely she mult Sometimes think of Sedgwick. 
Mrs. Newman calls me; — though I tell her I am writing to you — she will not excuse me. She is now at my elbow : — “Lord! what with writing to this Lucy, reading her letters, and thinking of her, one has not a moment of your company; I will positively determine to quarrel with you both, be but Sociable until Newman comes, and then march z Soon, as you please.” 
Dear 
[ 9‘ 1 
Dear lively creature! if it V as possible to be anory with her, I should at this moment: — but I will oblige her by laying aside my pen, when I have declared you arc now xht only I love; and yet I ought to love another — unfortunate Fanny! 
Make my kind and respedful remembrance to your father; and tell your Sister, I wissi J was half So good as herself. 
FANNY DORMER. 
LEX[ 
[ I 
LETTER LVL 
MBS. ARLINGTON T o 
M R S. B O R M E R. 
St. james’s urcet. 
WE arrived here, my friend, last night, and I am now a visitor, where I was once at home. Whilst my lister and I were out for a walk this morning, Mr. Grenville called, and my father made him promise to dine with us. When he came I was in my dressing-room, reading your last letter. 
On his knocking at the door (my father, it Seems, Sent him up to me) I naturally inquired, who was there. — “A friend, ” Said he, “in the stridtest sense 
of 
I 93 ] 
of the word : ” I opened the door, but guess my surprise, when I Saw it was Grenville ', as I really believe you a friend. Said I. you may come in. 
“You must neither accuse me of indelicacy, nor be displeased with me, ” Said he; “when your are informed of my principal motive for wishing for a private audience. — But have I not declared I would be your friend? — I have, and I am going to give you the greatest jproof of my disinterested regard, by ’pleading for my friendy at a time, when I myself zm So tenderly attached to you, that I feel the Sacrifice almost too great for human nature to Support: — and I am certain, friendship would have yielded to self-interest, had not your indifference, and the certainty of never gaining more than your esteem, shielded me from Such treachery, 
“Mr 
t 94 ] 
Mr. boswell is in town, and I know it is his intention to make very Srequent visits to your Sather, on whose account I leave you to guess. I am Sure he will not be So indelicate as to urge anything that may appear too precipitate. But remember, how Severely he has Suffered for his deception and procrastination. 
I will now, besore you have an interview, make you acquainted with the nature of his connexion, with the per,, whom you, and many others, believed to be his wife. 
Was there not a young Lady who Jived with him as a wife did he nor. Said I, Seduce her from the paths of virtue, and then forsake her? 
“Nancy Collins, ” he replied, “was his mijirefs\ and latterly, he very foolishly Suffered her to appear as his wife. As she had none but per final attractions, 
his 
[ 95 I ' 
his sondness for her, was but of short duration; though he had many doubts of her fidelity to him, subsequent to his attachment with her : he had Sufficient •proofs of her connexions with other men, prior to their acquaintance. — She had often Solicited him to marry her, but he was not to be wheedled into suck an union. 
She at last had recourse to an expedient which in slime measure Succeeded to her wishes. She assured him she yt2.^ pregnant. This circumstance, added to her tears and entreaties, prevailed on him to consent to her appearing as his wife, though he Solemnly Swore never to marry her. 
“It was about this time, he became acquainted with Mr. Cleveland. He had known miss Collins and her family, long before her connexion with Boswell. 

t 96 3 
’well, and insisted on his never introducing her into his family; at the Same .time he told him, that his Society would be too great a Sacrifice; and requested him, to be frequent and Sociable in his visits— — shall tell my daughters, Said Mr. Cleveland, you are a married man, and are parted from your wife, it will prevent their falling in love with Such a handsome young fellow. 
“these were your father’s words. — ► Tou arc the best judge, whether he was Sufficiently guarded.” 
My blushes, Fanny, made him the reply he expected— — are not ignorant, Said I, of my unfortunate, and what I believed, my criminal attachment to your friend; nay, it was So — for though he was not married, I regarded him, as one, who had vowed fidelity to another. — It was not until after I was married 
that 
[ 97 I 
that I was undeceived — it was then too late. — Yet I have the satissadion to rested, that I was as valuable a wife to Mr. Arlington, as is I had loved him : — by his conduct towards me, and his conversation with my father, I have no reason to suppose he suspeded my regard for your friend. 
“It was impossible he should, ” replied Grenville, “and in that one instance, dissimulation was laudable : his being informed of it, might have made a visible alteration in his behaviour to you; it might have occasioned you to have been very miserable, but never could have insured your happinessi Be Satisfied, my dear Mrs. Arlington, with your amiable and justly approved conduct to a worthy man, whom your family and Some of your friends knew you could not love. You are very young, and it is still in your power, to 
vol. II F Secure 
[ 98 ] 
Secure to yourself and my friend, years of happiness, should the Almighty Spare your lives.’* 
Enough, Said I, my good friend; you know Boswell has a powerful advocate in my bosom: : you are an excellent pleader, and you may tell your friend, whenever he gives me assurances of his attachment, he will find me in possession of the Same heart and inclinations, that he loved in Lucy Cleveland. — My father came in — but made no inquiries about the conversation which had So long detained Grenville in my room, by which I guess, he knew the Subject he was come to preach on. 
He could not stay to dinner, as he Said, he had just received a letter from Mr. Newman, informing him of his arrival; and requesting him to give him the meeting at the green park coffee i 
house[ 
[ ] 
house, to accompany him to Henley: — but remember, you are not to communicate this intelligence, as it is desigiied to be an agreeable surprise to Mrs. Newman. What must her Seelings be, at the sight of a man she loves, who has been So long absent? 
You will See Grenville in a few hours: indeed, by this time, he is most probably arrived; for I have stole time from my steep to communicate the contents of this. — In a short time I shall expect to have you with me; my next letter will most probably insorm you, where 
we shall reside- -- I wish my 
interview with boswell was over, how shall I behave? he is no stranger to my regard for him, and were 1 inclined to dissemble, 1 must appear very despica ble. 
F 2 lam 
[ 100 ] 
I am ashamed of you, Fanny, when you talk of applying to your father for money: shall those whose hearts are one. Scruple to share their possessions? 
Farewell, my love! you know how very Sincerely, I am your 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
LET[ 
[ 1 
LETTER LVII 
MRS. DORMER 
T 0 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
newman place, Henley. 
MR. Newman, and his friend Grenville, are arrived; we were just returned from a walk : — the warmth of the evening had induced us to Seat ourselves in the window which looks over the lawn; 
'— we had not been there many minutes, besore the post chaife arrived. The impatient Newman put his head out of the window, to catch a glance of his dear little wife : she Saw him — and the Surprise had, Such an effedtupon her Spi f 3 rits. 
[ 102 ] 
sits, that she was in hysterics for near an hour. 
I told her you had laid an injun(stion on me of Secrecy, but she declares she will never forgive either of us, for keeping her So many hours ignorant of her approaching felicity. 
. You may suppose we are all in high Spirits on the present joyful occasion, and the lively Harriet protests, she will make a public demonstration of newman’s return, ' by literally fulfilling the Scriptures, and \ht fatted calf \ 
killed. She is So Serious in her deter | 
that she has given orders for the calf to be roasted whole tomorrow, in the marketplace. 
Newman laughing immoderately at the oddity of her conceit, declared, she would make herself the laughing flock 
of 
[ 103 ] 
of the whole town; and he should go by the appellation of t\iq prodigal huf handy by all the village. — “I care not, ” Said she, “for anything they may thinks and it is not anything they can say which (now you are with me) can leffcn my flock of laughter. The first thing they will call you, depend upon it, will be a flmpletony for giving up your own opinion to a woman’s whim! and what will be thought still more extraordinary, to a woman! to whom you have been married near five years. 
Newman is a very agreeable creature 5 if you was here, you would be Saucy enough, to Say, I should not think So, had not his eyes flattered me with their approbation: but T put a negative to any Such assertion. I confess, if he continues to gaze, as he has done the last four and twenty hours, I shall have F 4 some[ 
[ 1 
Some apprehension of the “green eyed monfier'^ visiting these regions of bliss. 
Your last letter is received — read — and much approved of; but how to confess what I have done with it, I know not. — Yet you may as well be informed now, as Some time hence. — I have given it to Grenville. You may be as angry as you please, but I guessed, it was wanted to show to Boswell; and, I thought, he had been kept long enough in suspence : and, in truth, you have confessed little more to me, than what might be collected from your conversation with Grenville. You See, we are determined to bring matters to an ecclaircijfement between yon, and then you will have none to blame but your selves, if you are not happy. However, as I have parted with this letter without your permission, I shall very Soon personally entreat forgiveness; but, as you 
are 
[ K ] 
are powersul, be mercisul, and do nott provoke me to Say, “I know in your heart,, yon are pleased with my con dud.’* 
Grenville defines to be most kindly remembered to you : you observed, in one of your letters, that I never mentioned him.. — 1 wonder I should not, for I am Sure 1 think of him more frequent,, than I speak of any other man. I see his many virtues, and think him a being of a superior order; wlio, I will engage,, finds ten thousand.errors in,. 
Poor 
F annv dormer;. F 5 L E X[ 
[ ] 
LETTER LVIII 
HENRY SEYMOUR, ESQ, 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ. 
New bond ftreet. FOR ever, Charles! are you increasing my obligations to you. — Judge of my feelings; by them you would ha veex perienced, had you been in my Situation, at the Sight of lucy’s handwriting: what a letter! * — dear generous girl! thou art above the weak prudish foibles of thy Sex, and Scorn, though by evasion only, to conceal a Sentiment which thy fond heart feels, for him who will study to deserve thy love. 
* The letter given by Mrs. Dormer to Mr. Grenville. 
What 
f 1 
What an excellent method this has been of attaining a farther assurance of her regard; but I am particularly happy, that Mrs. Dormer voluntarily gave you the letter, with permission to Send it to me; for had you obtained me a Sight of it by any clandejiine means, I have that aversion for every Species of artifice, that I should have thought the purchase too dear, even for such a prize i 
This letter shall Serve as a companion to the Solitary card, which has So long hung Solus in my bosom; and they shall be my nightly comforts, until heaven bestows on me, the woman my heart yearns for. 
I Sent yesterday to Mr. Cleveland, to request an interview with him at my lodgings; 
F 6 “I am 
t io ] 
“I am come, ” Said he, “becaiise it was your request; but I think you can have no bufiness with me, but what concerns my much loved Lucy; shehas Suffered Severely from your deceptions, and I suppose you now wish to make atonement for your follies ?” 
I wish for nothing, I replied, but an assurance from your daughter of her regard, and your permission to take the earliest opportunity of Soliciting it: you who are So well acquainted with her worth, must think mine a very natural anxiety to know my doom; could I but gain her promise to be mine I would leave it for you to determine, how long I should remain un bleffed. 
“You have been to blame, ” Said he, “in having deceived me or any of your friends : but you will recoiled:, that I never believed that you was married to 
that 
[109 ] 
that Nancy Collins: — but your own heart, and the event which was the con sequerice of your dissimulation, must have been a Sufficient punishment for the. great absurdity of your conduct, without the addition of my reproaches. 
“And, as I believe the error was in yoxxv judgement and not in your heart I will make it my study to promote your future felicity. I am Sure, if it depends on Lucy, it is not very remote. She is at present with me, and your company will be a very agreeable addition to our fire fide.’’ 
He then kindly promised to introduce me to her, the very first day he thought her Spirits would bear the interview. — I thought. Charts, my presence would have been the most effectual method of railing them; but determined 
t Ito ] 
termined to comply with the opinion of this excellent old man. — You shall wait until 1 have Seen her, besore you hear from 
H. SEYMOUR. 
LET, 
[ III ] 
LETTER LIX 
henry SEYMOUR, ESQ 
T o 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ 
New bond street. MR. Cleveland, and Delmont, called on me yesterday to conduct me to my beloved Lucy. — He Said, he had informed her of his intention to bring me to dinner. — When we came in the house, he desired we would go into the dining parlour, “There is a closet, ” said he, “adjoining, which will conceal you both extremely well: you can there hear everything that pastes, and it will be a very effedlual and innocent mode of acquainting you of the sttuation of 
Lucy’$ 
[ ri ]' 
lucy’s heart; you may fasten the door on the inside, and if I assert anything but fafis', you may come out and con -- suit me.” 
Excellent old man!’ 1 could’ have hugged him for the contrivance; and as I could not be too often affured^of that affection my dear girl feels for me, I suffered Cleveland to remain ignorant of my having Seen that letter * which you kindly Sent me, or the conversation between you and.ducy, which you had communicated. I therefore thanked him by a look, Aor I could not Speak my feelings: I was So overcome with joy, at being, in the Same house, and the prosped of spending the whole day, with the beloved of my heart. 
But i ventured to object to Delmont being with me, though. Said I, I have 
f Letter LVI - 
no 
i 113 ] 
sto concealments from him; I think there is an indelicacy at any person but her father, being present at the interview. Delmorit was of the same opinion; he went into the library, and I retired to my hiding-place. Mr. Cleveland then sent for Lucy, and as Soon as she came, addressed her, as near as I can remember, in the following words. 
I 
“I promised to invite Mr. Boswell, (the only name, thanks to her father and your compliance with my request, that she yet knows me by) to dine with, us; but I have met with an acquaintance of Mr. delm.ont’s, whoj I find, resided very near arlington grove, and who has Solicited the favour of an interview with you. His name is Seymour \ he is young, rich, amiable, and standfome; in one word, he is the man of all others, I could wish to be my Son.” 
She[ 
[ ] 
She was going to Speak -- -- 
“Do not interrupt me, Lucy, ” Said he, “but listen to me with attention. — You will, perhaps, plead the indelicacy of receiving a proposal of marriage, So Soon after the death of Mr. Arlington : but you are too young, and you must excuseafond father, if I add, too handsome, to remain without a guardian. — I cannot expect to live many years; persons at my time of life, are liable to complaints, which carry them off very Suddenly; and my peace of mind in a great measure depends, on Seeing you happily Settled with a man you can love, before I die. — Only let me introduce Mr. Seymour into your company, and if you can point out one objection to him, I will never mention his irame to you again.” 
I leave 
[ ] 
I leave you to judge, what a perturbation I was in, during this Speech of cleveland’s; and what difficulty I had to remain concealed, when I heard by her voice, the dear girl was in tears. 
“O, my father!” Said she, “for what am I destined.? why is my inclinations to be ever at varience with yours? why did you flatter me with a prosped of happiness, which you never intended I should poffess, or Suffer me to hope I might yet enjoy the Sweets of life? — but I now find — hope is too Spacious — too delusive — and feel the fatal consequences of giving the traitorefs too friendly a reception. 
“Ah, Sir! is it possible you Can de sire me to receive the addrelses of Mr. Seymour, or any man, except Mr. bof well; when I have So candidly avowed, to you — to my Sister — to Mr, Grenville, 
that 
[ ii ] 
'that my affections are already, and urn alterably fixed, on that bofweli the most amiable of men! 
“Was not this very man once favoured with your preference? did you not tell me last week, that you thought that the happiest moment of your life, ■when he Solicited an interview with me, to avow that fond regard, which has been So long reciprocal! and can you, who have Such a heart, wish me to be again Sacrificed? imposhbl'e !’ 
“I have felt very Severely, by marrying a man I could not love. Though ' he was So very worthy, I had not a con* solation during the two years I was his wife, but that of having obeyed the dictates your inclination. — It was likewise from a principle of virtue, but it was a piece of heroism I was unequal to.. 
y I have 
[ II ] 
“I have now but one thing farther to observe. — IS you are Suddenly prejudiced against Mr. boswell, I will promise never to See him intentionally: but with this proviso, that I may never be introduced into the company of any man, but yourself, and Mr. Grenville.’* 
She was So extremely affected, with this new and unexpected addition to her many trials, that she requested permis sion to retire. 
No, my dearest Lucy, ” Said her father, “1 cannot Suffer you to leave me, until I have convinced you, that you have refused a man, no ways differing from Mr. boswell — but in name“ 
“” she replied, “that is ims possible — my heart tells me, I shall never know his equal.’* 
f!yes, ’; 
[ ii } 
** Yes, ” Said her Sather, you will in Seymour meet with all your wishes.” 
-- -- Behold that very Seymour, Said I, 
bursting from the closet, and catching her in my Sond arms, behold the bos well you have honoured with your preference, unalterably yours — and changed in nothing, but his name and fortune. 
Grenville 1 I cannot possibly convey to you any julf idea, of the astonishment and joy, that were painted on her lovely intelligent countenance : — but when she had in Some measure recovered her Surprise, she reproached her father, though in a very Submissive manner, for the deceit he had pradfised on her: but recovering her Spirits, and looking archly at me, “indeed, ” Said she, “you Seem all of you to be Such adepts in deception, I know not what I may venture to believe ?” 
“You 
[ ‘^9 ] 
‘‘ You may believe me, ” Said her father, joining our hands, “when I de » dare, I thought this young man too amiable to be kept in a state of suspence. You have both been Sufferers, by a Series of disappointments; and I think it time you should obtain the reward of your virtues and constancy. Believe me, my children — for, ” Said he, turning, to me, “1 confider you already as my Son; had either of you Suffered your mutual affection to have gained the ascendency over your better judgement, and been So far overcome by your passions, as to have entered into an illicit attachment, — I do not believe, that Providence would have given you this opportunity of being leg ally united. For I look on this union, which I hope very Soon to see accomplished, as a reward for yoiff forbearance from vice — and your strict perseverance in the paths of virtue. 
“These[ 
[ ] 
these are my Sentiments, but I shall not prolong my discourse, as long Sermons, generally tyre, and by wearying the mind, often lose their effed.’* 
He then left us, and I explained every particular of, and for, my conduct, to my amiable Lucy. — She treated me with that confidence which I will endeavour to prove worthy of; and she confessed, before 1 left her — “It was the hafpieji day she had ever known.” 
The worthy Delmont shares my felicity, and I have the happiness to rested, that I shall be enabled to return all my obligations to him, by presenting him with miss Cleveland. — Could I but persuade the two Sisters to go to the altar on the same day, it might be a means of accelerating my union with my dear girl, who would avoid retarding 
her 
[ II 1 
her sister’s felicity— — hear Mrs. Dormer is expected in town; tell her not to come; and should Lucy press for her company, tell her to refuse Seeing her, until she, is Mrs. Seymour. — O! that my Lucy was entitled to that name! — Delmont is in the Same house with Maria, while I am only received as a visitor— — I had not Smarted for my deceptions, I would feign Sick, and have Lucy to nurse me: (for Cleveland would be too humane to send me out of the house) but I believe it is best as it is: nurses are often left alone with one, and I, might throw off my Sick mash and be imprudent. 
Adieu! I cannot Spare time to add more, for I must attend my Lucy, it is already noon, and at One o’clock I promised to accompany her to christie’s, to view a very fine colledlion of pictures,, to the Sale. I proposed it, 
vol. II G merely. 
[ 122 ] 
merely, as an excuse to be with her, for my mind is too much monopolised in contemplating the charms of my lovely animated original, to admit of my bestowing any attention on paintings or still life. 
HENRY seymouri L E T[ 
[ ] 
LETTER LX 
MRS. ARLINGTON T o 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. james’s ftreet, Wednesday. 
I FIND by your last letter, that Grenville makes you acquainted with the contents of all the letters he receives from his friend. — I shall inform bosweil, I mean Seymour, of his treachery; as by this means, you are acquainted with all my transaistions; it will be So far of advantage to me, as to Save me the trouble of communicating them. 
I do not wonder you are angry at my - writing So Seldom; for you, who shared my ashidtions, ought to participate my G 2 joys; 
[ 124 ] 
joysbut my heart has been So long accustomed to Sorrow, and my pen to exhibit distress, that it knows not how to express (the transition being So Sudden) the cheerful state of its mistress’s mind. — To Say in one word, I haf will answer my purpose; as it will be a means of making you So likewise : but it will not complete my wishes; you 'wuft come next Luefday^ and receive ocular demonstration of the Surprising change in your Lucy. 
Do you not recollect: the voice, which I mentioned to you I heard when I was in the summerhouse with my brother elect?? — mystery has been explained to me. There is a narrow green lane, which is on one fide the field, and nearly close to that fummer house; there the fiy Henry concealed himself: but when he Saw me put the flute to my mouth, he imagined, (you will perceive 
the 
[ 125 ] 
the vanity of the man) it was to touch that part, which his lips had So osten pressed; it was then he exclaimed, “It is too much !” — It was, indeed, Fanny, too much for him to guess at So great ^ truth. I well remember how much I was alarmed at the sensations I felt, on having anything belonging to him in my possession; and though I wished I had never Seen it, yet I had Scarce resolution to part with it. 
You who knew my attachment to boswell, at the very time I married Mr. Arlington, have often expressed your astonishment at my appearing So easy, and latterly, So happy in my Situation, and have often declared I never loved boswell with that ardour which I imagined, or I could not So Soon have obliterated my regard. I did not chuse then to undeceive you, (for I wished, if possible, to deceive myself;) but 1 was G 3 neither 
I 126 ] 
neither possessed of that uncommon vir -- tue or stoicism which you supposed. — I never ceased'to love boswell: — every attention which was lavished on me, was displeafing; and every Species of fondr nefs was disgusting : not in themselves, bpt coming from a man, who, though uncommonly amiable, I could not love. 
None but myself know the confiidls I endured; and the only merit which I arrogate to myself as being praise worthy, was making as good a wife to Mr. Arlington — as if I had loved him. He was quite as well Satisfied, which is a proof, that provided there is not an aversion, love is not So essentially neces sary. Honour, virtue, and a conformity of temper and inclination, are the chief requisites in the conjugal state. — The woman who possesses these, may make her husband happy; but I am still 
E 127 I 
of opinion love is absolutely necessary to make her So. • 
Once more to mention the stmimer house : you See I was not to be deceived in that voice, whose Sounds had So often penetrated my heart. 
I must see you on tuesday — remember, I will not be put off longer: but the Surest method I fancy to get you to town, will be, not to write any more to you, and to prohibit any intelligence of me, and mine, transpiring at Henley : perhaps, curiosity will compel you to come to 
LUCY ARLINGTON. 
o4 LET[ 
[ i 
LETTER LXL 
henryseymour.esqt 
T 0 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESC New bond street, Wednesday. 
GRENVILLE! I am the happiest of men 1 my Lucy, my incomparable Lucy I has not only promised to be mine — but has consented that next Tuesday shall complete my felicity. 
My bofom’s lord sits lightly on his throne, 
And all this day, an unaccuftom’d spirit 
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts. 
Ah me! how sweet is love itself poflest. 
When but love’s shadows are so rich in joy ?” 
Her 
[ 129 ] 
Her father has been my friend in fixing Such an early day; but it is agreed for her to remain with him a few months longer; for, as Mr. Arlington has not been dead quite a twelvemonth,, we do not think it consistent with the' opinion of the world, to declare our marriage, until sometime after that period; is expired. i 
I yesterday presented my dear girl with my piihire; and when I called there this morning, I was at first a good deal chagrined, not to See it on her lovely arm — my eyes reproached her, she understood their language, and with a look of infinite tenderness, took it out of her bosom, (where it hung pendant from a black ribbon) observing, at the same moment to her father, that “if the artist had intended to flatter me he had not Succeeded.” 
G 5 “Tmr 
[ 130 ] 
Tour flattery, ” Said her father, “is more likely to make him vain than the z; z/^rv, and you Seem to insinuate, that the picture is not So handsome as the original.” — “That, ” Said she, “is certainly my opinion; but when I affure him that beauty is of little estimation with me, I shall not be accessary to his vanity.” ' 
It may appear odd my repeating a conversation, in which my person was the only Subject; but it is gratulating, I confess, to my feelings, for even that to be thought well of by the woman of my heart. 
Miss Cleveland is likewise to give her hand to Delmont, on this Said Tuesday: and now you have received this intelligence, you may with strict truth affirm, that on that day there will be four happy beings. 
I find 
t II I 
I find Lucy has wrote, to invite her dear Fanny, — who next to my wifeeledt, is, I think, the loveliest woman I ever' beheld. Lucy Says, she has “an excellent heart, a more than feminine understanding, arid a pair of eyes that wound at sight — what say you,, Charles, have you felt the truth of her last assertion ^ — hope not — for Dormer may be as likely to live as your self; and you are by much too good a character to be afflicted with the pangs • of hopeless love; 
Adieu! no one can have more of the miser in hearty wishes fora friend, than your 
HENRY SEYMOURC g6. LETS 
132 1 
letter LXII 
MRS. dormer 
T O 
MRS. ARLINGTON. 
Henley. 
YOU must know my inclinations are with you, but Mrs. newman’s little boy has caught the smallpox, and as Mr. Newman has never had it. She dare not venture to attend on thedear child. Itis not reasonable to expect that a fond parent, will trust him to the entire care of a Servant, and it is inconsistent with my feelings, nay to humanity itself, to leave them from whom I have received Such friendly attentions, at such a jundture. A few days will most probably produce Some change in the disorder, and our 
Separation 
[ 133 ] 
Separation for about a week after you commanded my presence, cannot be So distressing now you can have Seymour to comfort you. 
I had a visit yesterday from my father in his way from Bath; he ashed me, whether you visited lady Selby; he has purchased two very elegant brilliant lockets, one he requested my acceptance of, the other he wished to be conveyed to my “favouritelucy, ” “As you both wear handkerchiefs, ” Said he, “they may be useful to fasten them(you See men are not destitute of observation) but he objedled to the hazard of a 'public conveyance. 
I left off rather abruptly, but I was called down to the last person I should have expedfed to have Seen, — Captain Hallifax I 
[ »34 I 
Hallifax! — he has been Some time at oxsord, and called here to See me., ii his way to town; — but whatever share of vanity I may poffess, I do not believe I was the magnet that attracted him; no Lucy, he certainly wished, and by his conversation expected to See you here. — The worthy Grenville prcposed my giving him the locket to convey to you, it lay on the table directed for you, and he no Sooner made the proposal, than Hallifax put it in his pocket, Saying, “he should. Send it you by mrsi Hallifax, for he would not subje£thim>» Self a second time to yom incivitityp’ — Grenville asked for an explanation of his words, which he did not obtain; but your account of the gentleman’s behaviour to you, made me perfectly. understand what he alluded to. 
I have already been too long absent from the nursery, — and must bid you 
adieu, 
[ 135 J 
adieu, when I have assured you, that you was perfeduy right, when you guessed that I had Seen all seymour’s letters to his friend. — Excellent young man! — how I should envy any person but yourself the prospecl of Such an alliance! — But every one allows my Lucy to be entitled to {omtikino fuper excellevj. 
Heigh ho — I wish your Caro Enrh CO, would Summons Grenville to town, — otherwise I must in my own defence quit the country; — no wonder when he is in your opinion So very amiable, and when there are Such touchwood materials in the heart of your 
FANNY DORMER. 
A letter which I have Seen, Since 1 wrote this, acquaints me that next tuesday 

[ 136 ] 
day is the day appointed for your marriage. — I do not think even that joyous occasion, Tan justify my leaving this hos pitable family in their present situation, but I charge you not to delay your Ipng wished for union, with your amiable Seymour, because I shall not be present » — Soon as the child is better you may be assured of my company, and I shall depend upon congratulating you on having accepted the name of Seymour. How came you not to assign the true i reason for fixing on tuesday for my going to town? — I thought you particularly pressing for that day — I now ceafi to Adieu, my love! 
LET: 
[ *37 1 
LETTER LXIII 
MRS. A R L I N G T a K T O 
MRS. DORMER. 
St. james’s Street. 
BE advised — do not insped the next letter which Grenville receives from the amiable Seymour! For should your curiosity induce you to gratisy the impulse So natural to your Sex, remember you will repent it. 
I souicited your company next Tuesday (which will be tomorrow) and you are acquainted with my motive; whatever you may suppose, be assured, I am not angry at your declining it, when! 1 consider the propriety of your motives,. 
I can 
t 138 ] 
I can only Say I am Sorry for the occasion, but notwithstanding the importunities of my Gentleman or my fanny’s entreaties, I will in this one instance be obstinate, and perfist in not yielding my willing hand until you can be presen;. at the ceremony. 
I affure you, Seymour has thought proper to give himself many airs on the occasion, he Says, “you have not as figned the true reason for not coming, that you would not decline being present on Such an occasion, to Save the whole raceosnewmans from the grave, ” and throws out Such Scandalous asper fions^ that I will not Suffer my pen to particularise; ■ So much for him. But remember I commend your conduct, and one motive for not telling you why I fixed on tuesday, in preference to Seeing you on any other day, was, that you might ad right, and not have your 
judgement 
I 139 ] 
judgement warped, by the determination you would then have made of not delaying my happiness; — but I am not in Such a violent hurry, to know he will be mine is quite Sufficient to insure my feligity. I am interrupted— — — ' 
whom do you think? but the elegant lady Selby, and the pretty insensible Mrs. Hallifax, she is very intimate with Delia, and has been with her ever Since she was married. So that I find they were the new married pair, which the Captair^ Said she was going to. How they became acquainted I do not know, nor had I the curiosity to inquire. 
In the course of conversation, I mentioned my concern to Mrs. Hallifax, at being deprived of her company when her husband was with us at the grove. — “My husband with you !” she exclaimed, — then turning to lady Selby, 
‘‘ Why 
I 
f 140 J 
« Why, my dear, you know he told u he was at oxfordp She then heaved a deep Sigh — and I Saw the starting tear. Poor little woman! I could not help pitying her, how unkind must be his treatment to her, when it So greatly affects one, who Seems to poffess So Smalt a share of Sensibility. 
I begin to think I have been most highly and undeservedly favoured by Providence,, to have been the child of Such a parent! to have been So resped fully, and kindly treated by a man I could not love !^ — and ( “though last not least”) to be beloved by Such as Seymour is, justly entitle me to be called fortunate. 
Mrs, Hallifax forgot the Locket, but says, she and Delia shall be in kenfing tonne Gardens, where the beau monde as semble round the bason, to morrowand 
every 
[ II ] 
every fine morning, and she will take care to have it in her pocket. — She pressed me to meet them tomorrow, with an unaccountable earnestness, and as all the good company assemble there, and I am Sond of 'walking, I purpose going.' 
As I know the Cblonel to be a man of taste, I have no doubt but I shall be much pleased with his genteel present, and am impatient to have it from Mrs. 
Hallifax. -- -- You Said, your father 
called of you in his way from Bath, ” — I judged, he was coming to town, and thought it extraordinary he should not be the bearer of his present, but Delia informed me, that he went from you immediately, to make a short stay with a friend at Windsor, which accounts for his not pleasuring me with a visit. 
My 
[ >42 ] 
My father and Sister desire to be kindly remembered by you, they are both, thank God, in perfect health, and my sister’s Spirits are So elated, that my father teases her from morning until night, telling her, “her former gravity proceeded from the apprehension of being an old maid; ” what elates mine “why” Says my Fanny, “the near approach of being united to the man of your heart, ” -- -- -- You guess right. 
Remember me to Grenville, if your poor combustible heart, will Suffer you to approach him. I am not in the least alarmed at your feeling a 'preference for him., I know you cannot love your husband, and provided you conceal your guard from the man of your choice, as you do not Spend your days with that husband, I no not think it material to him whether you love him or not; our inclinations are not in our power, but 
our 
I h3 ] 
our cond.ufi is; and as I think it is ia your nature to like the Society of Some male creature, I would encourage you to admire Grenville for these reasons; i namely, — If he should perceive the partiality 
you feel for him, he is incapable of taking any ungenerous advantages ' of Such a discovery, and by loving him, it may prevent your heart palpitating, at the sight of Some man of very different principles, to the worthy and respected Grenville. 
Farewell 1 
LUCY ARLINGTON, L E Ti 
I 144 ] 
LETTER LXIV 
HENRY SEYMOUR, ESQ 
TO 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, E S 
New Bond ilreet. 
IN my last I expressed mysels to be the happiest of mortals! — how transient the felicity of: us earthly beings! 
'ever Some unlooked-for event to impede ns, when in the full career of obtaining all our wishes. Such mas the situation of your Seymour, when he last wrote, but you will judge of the present, by perusing the inclosed letter. 
O, Grenville! it is impossible, but Some malignant power, envying our approaching 
r IS ] 
proaching bliss has invented this diabolical epistle: — and yet to what purpose? — no — it must proceed from pure disinterested friendship; — and yet Such a paragan of virtue as we supposed her I, 
“Oh misery! 
What damned minutes tells he o’er. 
Who dotes, yet doubts j fufpe£ls. 
Yet strongly loves, 
I am distradbed, quite on the rack; she cannot be guilty,! will be convinced, before I believe, proofs shall be obtained. 
O my much beloved friend! pity and advise, the wretched 
HENRY SEYMOUR; 
vol.ii. H LET; 
J 
'[ 146 ] 
LETTER LXV 
To HENRY SEYMOUR, Esi^. 
(inciosed in the preceding.) 
THE knowledge I have of the integrity of your mind, and the many virtues you poffess, added to the repugnance I feel at Seeing So much goodness imposed upon, induces me to inform you, that if you perfist in the connexion you have formed with the wanton relict of Mr. Arlington, you will repent living that hour in which you accepted her hand. 
The sanctity of her manners, and her plausible condiid towards you, will most likely prevent your giving credit to these admonitions, but remember, she who 
has 
[ 147 i 
has deceived one may a Second, and elude every appearance of guilt. But you may convince yourself, this letter is not dictated by malevolence, by going tomorrow, or the first morning that the weather is fine enough, to afford her the plausible pretence, that the benefit of air and exercise, is the motive for her going to kensington Gardens, where you will find this Specious fair one with her beloved Ennamarata. 
Ha let[ 
[ ] 
LETTER lxvr. 
HENRY SEYMOUR, Esq; 
TO 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, Esq. 
New bond ftreet. 
THE perturbation of my heart, has So bereft me of all composure of mind, s and my Senses are So bewildered, that it 
is impossible to express myself as usual; but as reposing our griefs in a faithful bosom, often alleviates them, I will without farther preface, endeavour to give you an exact journal of my proceedings Since I received the anonymous letter. 
It came too late for me to Send to Delmont that night, but I went early 
next 
[ 149 ] 
next morning to Mr. cleveland’s, where I Sound the lovely Lucy (for So indeed she appeared in Spite of every prejudice) and her Sister, dressed and preparing Sora walk. 
“The fineness of the morning, ” they Said, “made them prefer the exercise to going in the carriage.” Just at that instant Mrs. Dormer arrived, I could perceive very unexpectedly; — O, Said Lucy, how happy am I to See you! — and this will give me an opportunity of Sending an excuse to lady Selby and Mrs.' Hallifax, with whom I had a Sort of an appointment in Kensington Gardens,, you have come very opportunely to free me from Spending So disagreeable a morning. 
Mrs. Dormer urged her to go, and observed she could accompany her; — but Lucy immediately objected, and H 3 Said,. 
I 150 ] 
Said, she had rather defer it until ano 
/ there opportunity. -- -- -- -- -- What could be 
her reasons? The conversation then became general, and Lucy was remarkably gay; — you know I am a poor dissembler, and I could not for the Soul of me, be in Spirits, which made their chearfulness at that time particularly disgusting: I had my hand in my pocket Several times with the intent to produce the anonymous letter, (which I inclosed to you for your perusal, or rather the copy of it) to show to all the parties present; — but prudence Suggested to me, that would not be a means, of coming at the truth, for the intelligence you perceive was not quite false, respedting the meeting in kensington Gardens; as I found her going, and though she mentioned that her appointment was with two ladies, it was not likely she should Say otherwise in my presence. — Thus, Grenville, was I kept, 
in 
[ ISI ] 
in this torturing state ossuspence, amidst the transports and congratulations o two of the Sincerest and most affectionate friends, the Sex ever produced. 
. I was two much agitated to wish to continue there, though Lucy gave me the most pressing invitation to stay dinner. “Her father, *’ she Said, “would return out of the city, and when she informed him of my refusing any request of hepsy she was certain, he would be much Surprised.” - — She Spoke this with so much tenderness, yet So emphatically, that I felt most sensibly the poignancy of her remark; and to preserve appearances, 1 pleaded indispofition from an irregularity pf the night before. 
I immediately withdrew, as I was: afraid my countenance would betray the real state of niy disorder. 
h4 When 
I *52 ] 
When I lest the room, Lucy attempted to call me back, but her tears prevented her articulating distindly, and I quitted the house, pretending ignorance of her endeavours to recall me. Alas! what a wretcli I at that time felt myself?? in Spite of that indignation which herfuppofed infidelity had given f ife to in my mind, her enchanting form her sweetness of disposition, came every instant present to my imagination, to counterad every resolution I had made, to quit her, should I not be able to obtain prooss of her innocence.? — but to proceed. — On leaving cleveland’s, I immediately ordered my chariot to ken fington Gardens, and went in at the door nejft the Palace Gate' (which you know leads nearest the bason.) 
After walking about half an hour, and meeting a few people, (to whom I 
fuppose' 
r 153 3 
suppose I appeared the melancholy madv man) I Seated myself in one of the ate coves, where I could view the whole Spot which was fixed on for the appointment. In a short time 1 became absorbed in So profound a reverie, that I did not for Some time perceive a very agreeable young gentleman. Seated close to me, who must have been there Some time; for very politely bowing to me,, he Said, “he feared I was Suddenly indis posed, having continued in a most melancholy posture for a long time.” 
This roused me from my lethargy' and a deep involuntary figh'escaped me,, and I could only thank him for his kind attention to a stranger : but recolledling; the Situation, — Seeing him look frequently at his watch, and wear an impatient countenance; itthen occurred to me, that this was probably the very person alii 5 ludedi 
r IS ] 
luded to in the letter, as no other gentleman was in sight. 
It was near the general dinner hour, and the garden thin of company; "I as sumed a gaiety to which you may sup pose my heart was a stranger, and laughing, observed to him, I suppose my figure had been truly ridiculous, but, Said I, I was musing on the giddiness of the fair Sex, and ressedting, how wrong it was for a man of bufiness, to shackle himselfwith an appointment, when probably an audlion, the infpedling of millenary, or any new vagary might keep me here all the day; and this, Sir, is my great dilemma. 
The stranger looking grave, and very attentively at me, Said, “I wish, Sir, my difappointrrients Set as easy as your’s Seem to do, but was your whole Soul engrossed 
[ 155 1 
groffed as mine is, by one of the most charming of her Sex! and that woman, after giving you repeated proofs of a reciprocal passion, and but once failed in an appointment, you might then form an idea of my present feelings, perhaps you have been here longer than myself have you observed a lady of the mid ling stature, with languishing blue eyes, light brown hair, in a word, a woman with a beautiful face and an elegant form; have you observed any person who answers this description? she rpay have misunderstood me,; I think I particularly appointed near the bason, — yet in my anxiety for an interview, it is pos stble I may have omitted saying, what part of the garden, — for she cannot be; faithlefsv 
You have described my Lucy, by heavens “Lucy he echoed. -- -- -- -- -- Aye 
H 6 Lucy,. 
E 1 
Lucy, I replied, and my Lucy. — Tour Lucy!” Said he with asccrrnful air, “no, no, l\.\cy Arlington can only htmy Lucy.’* — “Now are you Satisfied 
No, Said I, not until I See you again, tomorrow morning Seven o’clock, at the ring in Hyde Park; at the Same time giving him add ress, but in my confusion 
I forgot to ask for his. — “I shall attend you, ” Said he, and then left me with an air of triumph. 
O, Grenville! can I now have any doubts of this woman’s perfidy? heavens! had I married her? — and become the Scorn of all my acquaintance — I ought to be thankful for my escape • yet Surely I merit commiseration. 
“Had it pleas’d heav’n! 
To try me with affll6lion, had he rain’d All kind of sores on my bare head, 
t 157 I 
Steep'me in poverty to the very lips 
Given to captivity me and my hopes j I ftiould have found in same place of my (biit A drop of patience. — But alas! to make me. 
A fixed figure, for the hand of scorn To point his slow and moving finger at j — * 
Yet could I bear that too, well, very well. 
But there where I have garner’d up my heart, 
Where either I must live or bear no life. 
The fountain from the which my current runs Orelfe dries up j to be discarded thence— — 
thy complexion there. 
Patience, thou young and rose llp’d cherubin,. 
Aye, there look grim as hell. 
I wish, Grenville, I could discover my kind anonymous friend, who has cautioned me from plunging myself into irretrievable misery; why should Such a godlike mortal conceal itself? and not receive the effusions of my grateful heart for Such a deliverance. 
I have[ 
[ ] 
I have Sent a note to Delmont, communicating the too certain proofs I have received of lucy’s infidelity, and requesting him to accompany me to Hyde Park, as a Second 
to the wretched: 
SEYMOUR, 
L E .D 
[ v9 1 
LETTER LXVII 
HENRY SEYMOUR.'ESQ. 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ.. 
New Bond ilreet, Friday night. DELMONT has complied with my request, and promises to accompany me at seven o’clock tomorrow morning. He has not mentioned the Subject of my note to any of the family. 
Perhaps this may be the last you will receive from your ill-fated friend, — whose life has been chequered with distresses — some sunshine, but more clouds. — ^ — Grenville! I am convinced, that happiness is not the portion of mortality; our lives are a compound of good 
and 
t I 
and evil; a cup, which though Sweetened with bleff.ngs, is likewise embittered by adversity: : this fludluating state is wiseiy calculated to remind us of that futurity, which we otherwise should be too apt to forget.. — It is for this we are not permitted to revel in delight,, without the intrusion of thosc unwelcome guests — anxietjy and pain,. — Yet, though I have experienced Such a portion of misery — my soul shrinks within me, at the refledlion of So near a prospedt of eternity“ “undiscovered country, from whose bourn no travel ler retuwis.’* 
Farewell! — should it be my fate to fall! bear my loss, as becomes a man, I know I am dear to your heart — remember, that to mourn to excess, ia degree of reproach to the Supreme Being; yet not to mourn at all, must be the effect of infensibility; — you must 
have 
[ ii r 
have received my last letter, and I am Sure, Sincerely pitied my situation. Indeed, to heart which does not feel the distress of a friend is not worthy of emjlence. 
Not all the proofs I have received of her assignation with this man, will convince Delmont that Lucy is guilty j — he wishes me to See her before we go to Hyde park: — but to what purpose. I have challenged the man, and have too just a notion of the laws of honour, to decline my appointment. A few houri rnust determine the fate, 
Of your 
HENRY seymouri LET; 
[ I 
LETTER LXVIII 
FROM THE S A M El, T O T H E SAM E. 
New Bond ilreet. 
W E was at the appointed place, pundtually at Seven this morning. We perceived a gentleman waiting, who immediately came up to us, and inquired “if my name was Seymour On my replying in the affirmative, he gave me a note, the contents of which was to inform me, that “an affair of the greatest importance, prevented his keeping the appointment, but that I might depend on hearing farther froin him.” — The note was not Signed, and on my inquiring mho Sent it the person 
[ 163 ] 
Son Said “he was not at liberty to inform me.” — My Spirits were So agitated that I never thought of inquiring, where he lived; — but it is not material, as I have no reason to doubt, as he has Said it, of hearing farther from him; nor can I suppose him Such a paltroon, as to take no farther notice of my appointment. 
I have learned from Delmont, that after I left cleveland’s, Lucy complained of being indisposed, and as Soon as dinner was over,; retired to her own room, Mrs. Dormer accompanying her: — while they were at dinner, Cleveland ashed Lucy, if she had taken her intended walk to kensington. — She Said, she had not, as the unexpedied arrival of Fanny, had induced her to decline going. “Then you chooje to avail yourself of that excuse, ” Said he, ‘tether 
wish 
I i64 I 
wise Mrs, Dormer must have proved m agreeable addition to your party.” 
To this she made no reply, nor did she mention my having been there, - — this Serves to make her more despicable in my opinion; for why should she conceal my having visited her, unless to prejudice me in her father’s opinion ?-« but her advocate, Delmont, thinks her behaviour a proof that the whole is a calumny; — (would f could think So too!) and her motive for not mentioning my having been there, was to prevent her father being displeased at my refusing to stay dinner, when she requested in 
But, my friend, it is too evident to me, that the fear of my accompanying them, was what prevented the excursion to Kensington— — will say, 
perhaps. 
[ i65 ] 
perhaps, her not intending to go there alone, was a proosos her innocence? — but might not a Sister, and a confident, be lest in Hyde park, or in Some different part of the garden, to where she had her appointment? — 
No — I have>eceived too many proofs to doubt her perfidy — my friend! — who could have supposed Lucy false? 
'— “Was ever book containing Such vile matter So fairly bound ?’* — Though you have formerly very justly accused me of procrastination, you shall not now blame me for rashness, or too great precipitation, in for ever quitting this beloved, though faithless woman. — I will go to her this very evening, — by taking her by surprise, she will be unprepared for evasion; I will accuse her first in private, and if not then convinced of her innocence, I will — my God! — I 
am 
[ i66 ] 
am So distraded — So irresoiute; but farewell — when the interview is over you shall hear farther from 
The unfortunate 
SEYMOUR. 
LET 
[167] 
r 
LETTER LXIX. 
HENRY BOSWELL, E S CL T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ. 
New bond.ftreet. 
I WENT, as I intended, last night to cleveland’s, and passing along the Hall, I Saw him writing in the little parlour; he looked up on hearing Somebody pass, but though he Saw it was me, he kept a profound Silence, and never offered to quit the room to meet me. 
When I went in the drawing-room, I found Delmont and miss Cleveland Seated together on a Sopha, looking y unutterable things — Fanny was 
pouring 
I 168 ] 
pouring out the tea; Lucy (who was Seated as close to her as possible) was leaning on the table, with her head re. dined on her hand. 
I opened the door with So much caution, that they did not immediately See me, which gave me the opportunity of observing their situations which I have described, and heard Fanny exclaim, 
1 wish every tear you shed was a drop of blood from his heart.” — The door making a noifc as I attempted to shut it, made them all look up; and Lucy, in hastening to meet me, entangled her foot in her gown, and fell. 
The sight of her lovely face, moist with her tears; the joy which she Seemed to feel, and which shone in her lovely eyes at my approach; added to my apprehensions, lest she should have received any shurt from the awkward 
manner 
[169] 
manner in which she Sell, — “chased from my mind at that moment, every idea of her iiifidelity. Railing her from the ground, and Seating myself close by her, I detained her lovely hand, and was So intoxicated by her charms, that I believe, I should have gazed until now without attempting to Speak, had not she, with the most tender anxiety, inquired after my health. — “delmontv time, ’* Said she, “js So taken up with his Dulcinea, (pointing to her Sister) that I stave not been able to learn from stim, whether you were perfectly recovered.” 
I expressed my surprise at Mr. cleveland’s absence, observing, that I Saw him when I passed the little parlour— — Said, “she knew he was busy writing letters to India, as a ship was expected to Sail every day; but, ’* continued she, “if you will trust yourseif vol. II I with 
[ lyo ] 
with me, we will use our influence with him to come up.” 
As Soon as I had her on the outside of the door, I thanked her for the opportunity she had given me, of a tete-a-tete; but we will defer fetching your father, and now I must insist you trust yourself with me in your dressing-room, as I have Something to communicate which is essential for you to know. 
‘‘ No, no, ” Said she, “we had better go to my father, and then return to the drawing-room, for 1 expect: Lady Selby to See Fanny, and if we are missing, she will be fidl of her rallery all the evening— — Said I, let the Servants Say you are from home; if she comes to See her jijler, she cannot be offended ztyour absence : you have Said on many occasions, my requests were commands. 
“And 
[ 171 ] 
“And So you shall find them, ^* Said she, leading me into her room; “I had. rather forseit the good opinion of the whole worldwere I possessed of it, than Suffe'rjyi?« to think me changed.” 
Ah, Lucy, Said I, is this true? did you never tell any other man the Same story? or Speak to any other with the Same tender language with which your eyes now converse? — did you not feel yourself disappointed at my ill timed visit, which prevented you going to kensington Gardens? 
During all these interrogations, I kept my eyes steadfastly fixed on her countenance, which to do her justice,; betrayed no more confusion than was natural to So modest a woman, at being So ardently gazed on. 
I 2 rising 
[ 172 ] 
Hi Sing precipitately from my knee on which I had placed her, and bursting into a stood of tears, “Cruel Seymour !’* Said she, “what part of my conduct justifies your fufpieions? Have not you been informed by your friend Grenville, (of whole veraeity you cannot have a doubt) of my attachment to at a time when it was even criminal to indulge it? — I did not., indeed, indulge it, during the time I anothers 
wife. I struggled with my ill-fated passion, and the constidt between love and duty, nearly overpowered my reason, it greatly injured my constitution, and I begin now to think, it would have been happier to have fallen a Sacrifice to my feelings, than to have lived the object of your unjust and groundless jealousy.” 
I attempted to replace her on my knee, but she declined it, with a coun i tenance 
I 173 I 
tenance expressive of anger and vexation, without deigning to Speak fb me. — O, Said I, my beloved girl! cease Such: cutting, though Silent reproaches, until you have Seen this letter, (showing her the anonymous one I had received) and then tell me if 1 am So very blame able, or if 1 have not cause for those Suspicions which torment me? — burr, observe, before you read it, that I now firmly believe it the prodmsfion of Some Secret enemy; it was madness to doubt your fidelity and I shall never be at eale until I can call you mine.. 
When she had read the letter, “Many, ” Said she, “after receiving this, would have abandoned me for ever, without condescending to request an explanation; but I now in fist on your acquainting me with all the circumstantial proofs you have received of' your lucy’s infidelity.” 
I 3; I them 
[ 174 ] 
1 then related th interview with the gentleman in kensington Gardens, and every particular which I gave you. an account of in my last letter : — but when I came to that part of my narrative, where Delmont accompanied me as my Second, the dear girl turned pale, and exclaimed, “Good God! was my Seymour in Such imminent danger ?” — no, my love, Said I, I was not in any; for the gentleman, I tell you, instead of keeping the appointment. Sent an excuse“ “but, ” Says she, “if you should hear farther from him, will you promise me not to go ?” 
I am Sore, Said I, I would do anything to make you happy; but in this affair myhonourh concerned. — “True, ” she replied, “but I think, I could contrive to freferve your honour without hazarding your lijev — How, my Sweet ' / tender girl? — “Why, by having you 
remain 
[ >75 3 
remain here, and letting it be reporteci, you are out of town; then, should arry appointment be made, by not receiving the message, you will remain ignorant of it. But describe the person of your unknown rival; fori think, I may be certain, it was not a man; and from ■many circumstances have my suspicions • — that it was Some malicious person in 
disguise: -- -- suppose miss Collins? — > 
may shelnot envy me my approaching felicity? ' 
I then told her, the person whom I supposed a gentleman, was rather tali', handsome, but too Small features for a masculine countenance; very reraarka> ble arched eyebrows, that were So narrow they had the appearance of being pencilled, and a large dimple in the chin. 
I 4 Good 
'[ 176 ] 
Good heaven! is it possible, *’ Said she, that she can have So bad a heart?’* 
On my ashing her who she alluded to “Lady Selby, ” Said she, “the daughter of Colonel Morley, exactly - this description; shut I told you, she is expected here this evening, and her presence will unravel this mystery, 
“But I must now explain the nature of my engagement to Kensington for it is not Sufficient that 1 know my own innocence; I must have Suspicions done away, before I will become your wifev 
I was going to Speak -- — “Do not interrupt me, ” Said she, “but listen to me with attentioix 
“Colonel Morley had purchased two brilliant lockets, one for Fanny — the 
other 
[ 177 ]' 
Other intended as a present to me. Captain Hallifax, who happened to call at Henley while your friend and mine were at Mr. newman’s, the Sormer requestedl him to convey it to me, as he was coming immediately to London. But as‘ my behaviour, or to usc a more proper expression, my r<?y’«y^jj diad So much of sended him, he Said ‘ he should not' Subject himsels a Second time to my in sults, but should Send it by Mrs. Hallh sax.’' 
“A few days after she came, accompanied by Lady Selby; who I found,, was an intimate acquaintance of her’s,. and at whose house she had been ever Since Delia married. — I impatiently inquired for my locket, (for to confess a truth, I designedit as a present to you) but she Said, she had forgot to bring: it; but if I would meet her the next morning, or the first fine one, near the i5 X bason 
[ 178 i 
bason inkensington Gardens, she would have it in her pocket. 
‘ “I very precipitately promised ta meet them; but aster they were gone, it occurred to me, that it was possible Captain Hallifax might be with them, whom I did not wish to See; you are. not ignorant of my reasons, for in that, and every other circumstance, I have never had a concealment from you Since I gave you the promise of my hand. I consulted with my father in what manner I should ad, and he advised me to go. 
“This opinion of his determined me, and you found my Sister and I equiped for pur walk; — but the unexpected arrival of my dear Fanny, made me alter my resolution of going : for recolleding Mr. Dormer was jealous of liatlifax., when the latter was in India, I would 
not[ 
[ J 
not designedly Subject her to the probability of an interview. 
“You are now acquainted with the particulars of my intended excursion to kensington; and though it may not; have been ‘ As you like it; ’ you will, allow there has been ‘ Much ado about, nothing.” 
A loud rap at the door made her start' from her seat, “There is Lady Selby, ” Said she, “T know her servant’s rap — go to my father, and explain matters as clearly in. your justification to him you have done to me. He is at present adittle displeased with you, for having been less frequent in your visits;; -- ticularly, for not giving us your company to dinner the day I requested it. 
“I did not intend him to know that you had been, invited;. but Fanny was: 16 So 
[ io 3 
So piqued at your behaviour, that she betrayed you besore I could give her a caution. But my father is too considerate, and too fond of you, to remain long angry upon proper explanations : I will go into the drawing-room and let it appear to Lady Selby, you arc but just come; none of the persons we left in the room, will betray our long, tete a tete.’' 
I pressed the dear, fond, faithful girl! to my bosom, (for Such, Grenville, I may Surely pronounce her) and then permitted her to return to the company; while I went to her father with a much greater share of Spirits, than when I passed the little parlour. 
He received me with a reserve that stabbed my very Soul, yet it was no more, than I was conscious I deserved from the appearances that were against 
me. 
[ ii ] 
me. But I very Soon obtained a patient and attentive hearing, and had the inexpressible Sarisfadion to hear him acknowledge, -1 had acted with more prudence and moderation, than many young men would, who had believed them selves so highly injured. 
“I have na reasoh to suppose, ” Said he, “from any part of lucy’s conduct ^ Sne has any concealments from me:, 
I knew, and I find you are not a stranger to the many opportunities Hallifax has sought, of Sapping the foundation of her virtue. But frequent repuises, and her just indignation, made him give over his pursuit; and I will venture to Say, she has neither heard from him, or any other man (yourself excepted) Since her return to town, 
“But I shall not attempt to justify her conduct, it is an insult to a woman of 

r 183 ] 
of her principles and unimpeached cha fader; and this salse and diabolical stigma which has been cast on her’s, is a proof, that ‘ virtue itself escapes not calumnious strokes“ 
“think lucy’s Suspicions of Lady Selby, carry absurdity on the face of them: for how is it possible, she could even in that disguise escape the notice of her own family ?- — Though she has not, I believe, much delicacy in her composition, she cannot be So totally lost to a sense ot shame, for to appear in men’s apparel at nooh day, in Such a public Spot, as Kensington Gardens; and to what purpose, my good friend I — Can she be interested in the wish to create a distention between you and Lucy? 
“I do not wonder at her Supposing the person to be miss Collins; (except 
the 
[ i83 ]' 
the improbality of any disguise concealing her from your knowledge) — but I would advise you to return to the drawing-room, and Seek for the resemblance Lucy has discovered between your unknown rival, and Lady Selby.” 
He then introduced me to the Ladies, and Lucy alked me if 1 had drank tea; (that it might appear to Lady Selby, 
I suppose, that I was that moment come.) The first glance of her face, confirmed me, it was the Same person whom I had the interview with in Ken sington Gardens; and the idea of having challenged a woman, was So truly laughable, that I had Some difficulty to suppress my risibility. 
This confirmation of lucy’s Suspicions, though it effectually justified this amiable girl, filled my mind with the, greatest astonishment, as I could not fathom 
r 184 ]■ 
thorn the motive for Lady selby’s conduct. I think there is not a doubt of the anonymous letter being the production of her brain, which you will allow, does more credit to her head than her heart:,. 
I; Saw by her confusion, that she re golleded me the moment I entered the room many in my Situation would; have felt apleasure in betraying her adventure in the presence of the whole company, : and, I confess, when I considered the unhappiness she had occafii o.ned to Lucy and myself, I was half induced to Seek revenge : but a kind of veneration: I have always felt for her Sex — the loveliness of her per Son — in short, the powerwhich beauty ever had over the heart of your friend, pleaded so.drongly in her behalf, that 1 could not subject her to thevonfusion, which 
men[ 
[ ] 
the circumstance in her presence, must have occasioned. 
As Cleveland had returned to his writing, 1 took an opportunity to slip put of the room, and communicate to him the confirmation of lucy’s Suspicions, which I received on the first glance of Lady selby’s face. 
“I do not wonder, ” Said he, at he confusion, on meeting with you So very unexpededly: she, without doubt, imagined the step which she had taken, had 
put an end to your visits to Lucy. -- - 
Though this discoverymust banishevery fuspicion of my girl’s infidelity; yet, I am convinced, she will never consent ta htyoupsy until this mystery is entirely cleared up, and explained to your satisfaction” 
” would 
[ 1 
“I would not treat Lady Selby with the Severity she merits as I respedt her father; and as Sir William is gone to his estate in Devonshire, I would not advise you to go to his wife, but I will go there myself, and extort a full confession of her diabolical proceedings, by threatening her with a public diseovery.’* 
I highly approved, and expressed myself very grateful for his kind intentions, and wanted him to return with me to the drawing-room, but he declined it. Saying, he should not be able to conceal his indignation from Lady Selby, which he thought it would be politic to do, as he meant to take her by furprifep 
'When I returned, Lucy told me, the fair adventurer had taken the opportunity of my absence, to make her escape. 
She ashed us, ” Said she, as Soon as 
you 
[ i87 ] 
you was gone, if we had not observed how much she was disconcerted at your first appearance ?” — before we could reply, “I am certain, ” Said she, “it was too apparent toescape notice; but she So exaduy resembles an amiable young man, for whom 1 once very foolishly entertained a penchant; that it put my Spirits in Such an agitation, I was ready to faint.” 
I fancy, Charles, some part of this account, was a very true state of her feelings. 
Lucy had communicated what she knew of this unaccountable affair, to Delmont, Maria, and Fanny; and as we were then, entirely free from other company, we naturally gave our Sentiments on this mysterious conduct of Lady selby’s; but all highly approved of 
the 
I is ] 
the method Mr. Cleveland intended to pursue, 
Lucy rang the bell, and ordered the Servant to inform her father that Lady Selby was gone, and that we entreated the favour of his company. 
The Servant Said “his master was gone out, that he ordered a coach a few minutes after I had returned to the 4rawing>roomd* 
We concluded he followed Lady Selby. — Her recent conduct occasioned us to moralise on the malignity of the world, which Delmont thinking would produce too much gravity, requested lucy’s attendance at the har^.jichord; “Agreed, ” Said she, “provided Mr. Seymour has his flute with him, (looking jery archly at me), and we shall 
form 
[ i89 1 
form a concert, leaving those that will not play to criticise.” 
We amused ourselves with the vocal and instrumental, for near three hours; until Lucy expressed herself alarmed at her father’s staying So late, and declared she could not play any longer. 
We then Set down to Supper, but I could perceive it was mere form in Lucy, as she did not partake of anything. — I was equally surprised and unhappy as the rest of them; and had not prudence dictated to me, that it vras time for me to retire, I should certainly have waited cleveland’s return. — I promised to breakfast with them early in the morning, and then quitted my soul’s treasure! 
I wish, Charles, you would persuade Mr. Newman to part with you — your 
presence 
[ 19° ] 
presence would at this time, be as g^eat a convenience as a pleasure; for I cannot Suffer you to remain ignorant of anything which concerns me; and writing Such long narratives, ingroffes nearly my whole time which is not Spent with Lucy. 
Farewell! I hope I may again venture to add xd.it fortunate 
HENRY SEYMOUR. 
LET 
r ] 
LETTER LXX CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ 
T O 
HENRY SEYMOUR, esqi 
Newman Place, Henley. 
THOUGH the declaration may have the appearance of vanity, — I will affirm, that my heart is worthy of ex, istance, for it has very Sincerely participated in your anxieties. 
Lady selby’s is a most extraordinary character!! — her conduct respeding Lucy and yourself, proves her a very njile one. I cannot but believe that Hallifax was her employer, butthe manner of executing the Scheme, you are 
most 
[ 192 ] 
most likely indebted to her for: — let a Kvoman alone for invention I 
I always thought it nearly impossible, for Lucy to he guilty even of an impropriety, much less of an infidelity— — have left me as yet, ignorant of the result of Mr. Cleveland's visit to lady Selby, but from what you have related, I will venture to say, — you will Secure to yourself every felicity this world has to bestow, by an union with Lucy : who, independent of my partiality, is certainly as amiable as anything mortal can be. — Is she not in every res pe6t formed to please? affability and good nature, are her constant attendants: her face must attract, but it is her exalted soul, beaming through every feature, that gives animation to her charms. — Seymour! she will make you an excellent wife; I have always thought, home is the theatre for female action;; — • 

[ 193 ] 
It is there alone we can be assured of a woman’s merit. — You must, I again repeat, be happy, for where love is founded on efieeniy the bond will ever be permanent. 
From every part of lucy’s conduct, but particularly whilst Arlington lived, one would imaginemy favourite Thompson had been of the number of her acquaintance, So exactly does he describe her, in those beautiful lines, 
To give society its highest taste;; 
‘ * 
ordered home, man’s best delight to make j And by submissive wisdom, modest flcill, 
• With every gentle care eluding art, 
To raise the virtues, animate the bliss, 
And sweeten all the toils of human life, 
I would come to you immediately, but my old friend Newman will not agree to it, until you name the day that is to mdkq Lucy yours. He Says he will vol. II K then 
[ 194 ] 
then readily consent to part from me, as he cannot deny you rny company on such an occasion. — Inform me therefore when the day is fixed. 
Farewell, my happy friend! may you never know an abatement of the joys, which your present prospeds must afford you! 
CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
LETI 
195 ] 
LETTER LXXI 
HENRY SEYMOUR, ESCL 
T O 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, ESQ, 
New bond ftreet. 
YOU may now congratulate your happy Seymour on the prolpedts that await him! the amiable! the virtuous Lucy! is as good as she is lovely, upon the late mysterious affair being cleared up, and explained in a manner to convince me of her innocence, she has acquired a vivacity, which makes her, if possible, still more charming; — but to 
proceed to my narrative: It is fit I 
should releasc you from suspence, (that most irksome of all Situations). 
K 2 I went, 
[ 196 ] 
went, as I promised, very early the next morning to cleveland’s, and Sound him and his amiable guest waiting breakfast. He arose, upon my name being announced by the Servant, and taking my hand with a most courteous Smile, led me to his Seat, which was next to lucy’s. — “Now, ” Says he, “the circle is complete, but seymour’s countenance informs me, I shall not Satisfy his impatience, until I acquaint him of the particulars of my last night’s ramble; I suppose you guessed I was at lady selby’s, I followed her as Soon as she left my house, in hopes of getting there, before she might give orders to be denied, and I Succeeded, I found her in the drawing-room, but judge of my furprise, when 1 perceived Nancy Collins Seated by her, whom she called Mrs. Hallifax. — I was resolved, notwithstanding she was present, to interrogate lady Selby, who, 1 fancy, guested my errand, her confusion 
[ 197 3 
fusion was So visible.” — “You came very opportunely, ” Said she Sneeringly, 
“Sor if you had stayed a few moments later, I should have been denied for I feel myself very unwell— — I disregarded this hint, and told her ladyship the whole design of my visit. 
She for Some time evaded, hesitated, ' and denied her knowledge of the affair; until I produced the anonymous letter, and ashed her, whether she would upon oath declare, it was. not her composition? 
Tears of rage (not contrition I am Sure) started from her eyes, “Yes, ” Said she, “I did write it, and it was I, that went indisguise tokensington Gardens, and what of all this? I fancy I am a better character still than your youngest daughter, what I did, was to Serve Mrs. hallisax, whose husband, your amiable K 3 Lucy I 
[ 198 ] 
Lucy! has estranged from her affec ion : T suppose, Mr. Seymour, (continued she, affecting to laugh) will not now think of challenging me, and now I have given you So much fatisfadfion to your impertinent questions, I wish you a Safe return to your family, and I do assure you, if it was not for your being an old man I should give the porter orders to show you the outssde of the door. I shall leave you, but if you are very anxious for more information, Mrs. Hallifax can Satisfy your curi osity.” 
When she was gone, I addressed Mrs. Hallifax. “You are, I find. Madam, no stranger to this diabolical bufiness, neither am I a stranger to you, I think your name was Collins.” — “I am, ” she replied, “the same woman, but now married tocaptain Hallifax.” — ‘.dray, ” Said I, “what information am I to ex 
pest[ 
[ ] 
pet from you? — you find yourself the person lady Selby referred me to."’ 
She turned pale, and Seemed ready to saint; — “come. Madam, ” Said I, “confess what you know of these infamous falsehoods, for I am determined otherwise, to expose all the suspeded parties, to clear my daughter’s honour. You know I am well acquainted with your former connexions, and can readily believe, you have been accessary to this piece of business.” 
The resolute manner with which 1 Spoke, extorted what I aimed at; — she threw herself upon her knees, and declared herself the authoress and contriver, of the whole affair, and that lady Selby So highly approved the Scheme, that she voluntary offered her assistance to personate a gentleman, to be a corroborating proof of lucy’s infidelity; 
K 4 « for, ” 
[ 200 ] 
“for, ” Said she, “I could not assume any disguise that would conceal me from the knowledge of Mr. Seymour. — It was a deep laid Scheme, and had it not been Nor lady selby’s obstinacy, in visiting at your house, it might never have been discovered;; be afftired 1 Sincerely repent, and believe me, the reproaches of my own conscience, after the Scheme was put into execution, at the refieftion ' of having rendered a whole family miserable, was a Sufficient punishment for my guilt.” — I am really married to, Capuin Hallifax, but have hitherto concealed from him the true sstuation of myself and family. He used me very kindly for sometime after my marriage, but he nb Sooner beheld Mrs. Arlington, than all his kindness for me vanished, he has in my presence avowed his regard for your daughter, ever drawn comparisons between us, which you may suppose were to my disadvantage; 
my 
[ 201 ] 
Jny person, which was formerly the object of admiration, no longer pleases, and the kindest epithet I gain, when he is in his hest humours, is, his piece of Jiill lifev 
This condndl: of her hushand’s, instigated her to be revenged, but, as I observed to her, he should have been the object of it, and not my innocent Lucy,. or Seymour, to whom she had formerly many obligations.. 
She So earnestly implored my forgiveness, and my word of honour not to mention the affair to her husband, that as she appeared So penitent, and had acted So candidly,, I assured her she might make herself easy, respedling anything I should Say to her disadvantage, and that I would likewise venture to as fure her of the Secrecy of my family, but before I left her, I gave her a sharp K 5 lecture[ 
[ 1 
ledfure, and desired her to remember, that every Species of revenge, “though Sweet at first, bitter e’er long, back on itsels recoils.” 
“And nov, ” Said the good old man, “1 hope this intricate affair is unravelled to all your Satisfadlions; I most earnestly pray, you will not meet with any X farther impediments to your happiness, and may every blessing a fond parent. can bestow, descend upon my Lucy and her worthy Seymour!” 
After giving this tender, generous, man! every acknowledgement a grateful heart could suggest, I told Lucy that it only now remained for her to consent to my assuming a privilege, which I confessed I did not merit, but that I could never know a hapfy hour until I could call her mine, 
“Well 
[ 203 J 
“Well, Lucy, ” Said her father, “you may guess the poor culprit’s wishes, by his preface, do my good girl allow him to name the happy day.” 
The lovely girl, with amostinchant ing Smile, and her face covered with a Sweet effusion, Said, “If seymour’s happiness depends on me, it is already in his possession, I have loved him toa well to wish to delay is felicity.” 
Then next Tuesday, Said I, looking at Mr. Cleveland, will you honour me with the appellation of Son ^ — “most gladly, ” Said he, “for none but (my Lucy could be worthy of you.” 
Grenville! this Lucy is an angel! — she is above disguise, and avows her regard for me, in the presence of her whole family. — How delicate in all her actions, words, and looks! — yet Scorns to be K 6 fettered 
[ 204 ] 
fettered with restraint, when she wishes to confer a favour on the man who is Soon to be her husband, even a few days appear an age until she will be my “charming sound! that Seems like music 
to my ravished senses !” come 
then, my esteemed friend! and by your presence, add to the innumerable blessings, that now Surround 
Your happy, ISEYMOUR. 
L E .D 
I 205 ] 
LETTER LXXII MRS. D O R M E R 
T O 
MRS. NEWMAN. 
St. james’s Street. 
My dear friend, 
I HOPE this will arrive before Mr. Grenville leaves you, as I am in great want of his friendly assistance, to inquire after his acquaintance Sedgwick. I want to know for certain, whether he is at Oxford or not i— — Colonel mor lay called here very late last night, just returned from windsor, in consequence of a report he had heard in a public company, and which many circumstances corroborated with, of lady Selby being eloped with Sedgwick. 
Uf 
[ 2o6 J 
My father went to her house, and the Servants Said, their lady went out of town last week, to See a Sick relation at Hartford in Kent, but the carriage and horses were returned; the postillion Said, they were met by an empty chaise and one Servant, a few miles on this fide Hartford, into which lady Selby got, and ordered them home. 
Sir William, they Said, was still in Hevonshire, and there were Several letters come from him, which now lay on / her table, as she gave no orders for them to be forwarded to her. 
I think there is little doubt of the and I only fear this woman’s imprudent, not to Say criminal conduct, will most Senfibly afflict her father and her husband, who have always viewed her faults with the most affectionate partiality. The former has entreated 
me, 
[ 207 ] 
me, to use every means to come at the truth, and as I am well assured Mr. Grenville will readily oblige any friend of your’s, request him to go himself to Oxford, and procure every possible intelligence respeding Mr. Sedgwick. 
Write as Soon as you have anything to communicate, relative to this unfortunate affair, to your very Sincere, though perplexed friend, 
FANNY DORMER. 
Lucy has wrote to you, I find, by the Same conveyance, I desired she would, as I knew it would give you pleasure, to hear of her approaching felicity; though there is no doubt but Mr. Grenville has already informed you : — my respeds to him and Mr. Newman. 
LET[ 
[ J 
LETTER LXXIH. 
M R Sv NEWMAN 
T O 
MRS.. D O R M E R. 
newman place, Henley. 
WHEN I received your letter, gren. ville’s cstaise was waiting to convey him to town, but OH my showing him the letter, he desired me to tell you, he would go direduy to Oxford and obtain every Satisfadlion for you in his power. “Return my kind wishes for her formal respects, and tell her, whatever trouble I may have in gaining the information she requests, will be amply compensated by the pleasure of rendering Mrs. dor mer a Service.” — O, Said I, you may depend on my delivering your message 
with 
[ 209 ] 
with stridtpunduality, ' So extraordinary a circumstance, asgallantry, should not by any means be concealed from the lady’s inspedtion. 
“See, ” Said he to Newman, “the reproaches I am doomed to! — and all be cause I will Sometimes Speak my Sentiments, instead of telling my friend wise that she is faulilefs, or call her, what Some of my Sex would Swear her to be, a divinity V 
I know as well as you do, — this Grenville has a very good head, and a still better heart, but I do not think it right 1 should ever forgive his provoking insinuation, especially as he stepped into the chaise, the moment he made this pretty Speech, without ever soliciting my forgiveness. 
I find 
[ 210 ] 
I find he does not intend to stop here in his way to town, being impatient to See his friend Seymour, who expedls him this very night, 
Mrs. Arlington, in her ktter, requests me to be present at her nuptials, — tell - her I have not time to reply to her letter, and that I am extremely concerned, to be deprived of the pleasure I should feel, at being present on So joyful an occasion;; — my dear little boy has got the mealies, and she must know how incompatible it would be with my feelings, (that is, if you have done jujiictt to my maternal character) to leave the child in Such a situation, but the very moment I can quit him with Satisfaction to myself, I shall certainly pay my res peds to her, 
newmam/is worrying me to take a walk with him, and the brat will not 
take 
[ 211 ] 
take his medicine, without mamma. — * I must needs have a husband, Fanny! and these are the consequences! — husband did I Say? what a gothic word I where could I learn it? in the nursery I suppose, — 
Adieu! my fanchon 1 
HARRIET NEWMAN, 
LET. 
[ 212 1 
LETTER LXXIV 
CHARLES GRENVILLE, Esq. 
T O 
M R S. NEWMAN. 
New bond ftreet. 
I ARRIVED here very early yesterday morning, having travelled all night, and got here before Seymour had open’d the fringed curtains of his eyes; ” — but before 1 mention anything more of him, let me assure you that I write this letter to you, in preference to Newman, in hopes it may make my peace with you, and Smooth your forehead of those frowns, which my uncivil Speech on my departure from Newman Place, had occasioned— — 
213 1 
casioned. — Not that I deserve sorgive ness, because I do not Sincerely repent, I am not mysels Sensible of my fault, — and you can expect little amendment, until 1 feel conviction; excuse me, my good friend, but I know I am too honest a fellow to be a favourite with your sex— — flatterer is a most agreeable charming fellow, but I am too apt to Speak 
** Such truths as omen Celdom learn from meus Too roughly spoke to please a Lady ear. 
and now I have explained the nature of what you may call my fault, I will proceed to my narrative. 
After having roused Seymour by my early visit, we dandled over our breakfast for near two hours, for you may suppose we had much to talk over; we called of Lucy, and went together to 
Strati 

[ 214 ] 
Stratford Place, to See a ready furnished holise which they had thoughts of hiring for the winter, “You know, ” Said Seymour, “we are both too fond of the country, not to enjoy it in the Summer months, and it is my intention to build me a townshouse to my own taste, of which no person can have a doubt of my poffeshng, when they contemplate on my dejtined bridev 
Happy Seymour! I exclaithed, and an involuntary sigh would escape me. 
After returning from the house, (which they have agreed for, and which is fitted up in a very elegant taste) we went to her father’s to dinner, and it was proposed we should Send to take a box, as Garrick (that living comment upon shakespeare!) was to play Richard. 
1 — All consented, except Mrs. Dormer, 
who 
[ 215 ] 
who expected Colonel Morley to call on her in the evening. 
I considered there would be an impropriety in my leaving, her, when I was the person that was expected to communicate Some intelligence respeding my hopesul acquaintance Sedgwick. 
The Colonel came, as we expected, and I informed him that I had been to Oxford, and had made every possible inquiry after Sedgwick, that the only account I could obtain. Served to confirm our fears respeding the truth of the report, as he had been missing from thence, about the Same time lady Selby had left London, and had not been heard of by any of his acquaintance Since. 
I think I have wrote you a long epis tle, and should you find Newman betray 
any 
A 216 ] 
ny jealousy on the occasion, write me such a letter in return, as will Serve the “green eyed monjlep^ to feed on. 
Farewell, my little lively friend 1 
CHARLES GRENVILLE. 
$ 
LET 

[ 217 ] 
LETTER LXXV 
MRS. DORMER 
T O 
MRS. NEWMAN. 
St. jaraes’s ftrcet. 
THE too amiable Grenville, I find, has acquainted you with the result of his friendly visit to Oxford, and I have no doubt, but we all accord in the opinion, that every circumstance corroborates, Sedgwick and Delia being eloped together. 
Sir William, unfortunate man! was So very unhappy at not hearing from lady Selby, that he travelled post to vol.ii. L London, 
/ 
[ 2i8 ] 
London, and finding my father was in town, went to his lodgings. Such an interview! rnust have been inexpressibly distressing: the still doting, though injured husband, declared himself willing to receive her with open arms, but I find Colonel Morley, disapproved of Sucha conduct, though in favour of his own child. “W” e will never Suffer her to want, ” Said he, “but to replace her in her late enviable Sphere of life, will she an encouragement to vice, by depriving her indeed of the means of Support, you may render her still more infamous, but Suffer her to be deprived of Superfluities, and descend from elegancies to necessaries, and she will then have those crimes in her remembrance, that occasioned the transition from her former Situation.” 
Ah, my friend! I once loved this Sedgwick, my passion was at one time more prevalent than my reason, — and 
. I should 
I 235 ] 
You know I am entirely disinterested, I Speak as the friend of both, yet would not for her Sake be indelicately explicit. 
My dear Harriet desires to be kindly remembered to you, and fixes thursday for being in town. We shall go from here immediately to seymour’s, but shall steep at her brother’s, and I shall depend on your accompanying us thither. 
Farewell! rest assured, that lam your affectionate And Sincere friend, 
THOMAS NEWMAN. 
FINIS. 
‘LEU Pay are published, in One Volume ovavoy Price sin Boards, 
, MISCELLANIES 
I N 
PROSE AND VERSE; 
B, y 
THOMAS CHATTERTON, 
THE SUPPOSED AUTHOR OF THE POEMS PUBLISHED UNDER THE NAMES 
O F 
ROWLEY, CANNING, c 
\ 

PRINTED FOR FIELDING AND WALKER, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 
M.DCC.LXXVI J I. 
* 
